. Keep Living Even in Wartime

BOY IN THE AIR CORPS said, “Two things I am ready to light for—Jones
Beach and The New Yorker—Jones Beach, America caring for her people;

The New Yorker, a people freely expressing itself with discrimination and
distinction.”

Fitness, mental health, stability, poise, strength—all this is not possible ex-

cept as we keep on living even in wartime. We must keep what machinery there
must be in our lives oiled so that we run smoothly.

No matter if our sons are flying in the Air Corps, are in the Navy on the
high seas, are in the mountains of Hawaii, nevertheless we are going “to keep
. smiling within" even as they do, and take it all in our‘stride.

There is a dirty job to be done and we are going to do it without too much
talking about it and without any heroics.

So we just cannot let our bodies, or our minds, or our souls run down. Rec-
reation, physical activity, walks, music, singing, drama, making things with our
hands—whatever keeps us from tension, gives us rhythm, so that we can swing
along as lightly as may be—even though our numbers may soon be up—that is
what we must continue to do.

Recreation and the municipal recreation system—we say to our city fathers
—is a first-line trench to be given up at our peril. It is not just fun, entertain-
ment, something that does not matter—it’s what keeps the right heart beat, the
right alertness of mind, helps to keep resoluteness of soul, without anger or heat.
We just must keep living in an emergency like this if we want to continue effective.

Again let us add that nothing takes the place, however, of religion, of a
world View, of real character and moral stamina. Without this first essential edu—
cation, recreation, health matter little.

We expect perspiration, we do not expect to be too comfortable, we will give
up all extra baggage. Old clothes will go pretty well. As long as we can get our
vitamins we will eat very simple food. We will not make ourselves uncomfort—
able just for the sake of’being uncomfortable, but for the duration we are ready to
jettison all the things that are not very essential.

But beauty and sport and music and reason—which after all cost very little
———we the American People will not go without.

 

FEBRUARY I942

 

645

February

Photo by Jack Garbcr

"Me Gef OH ’rhe Swing?"

 

 

 

ARCH IS A CHILD of rare gifts but uncertain
M temper in a large and otherwise predictable
family. Her entrance and her exit have
always been a subject of great moment to those
who live in the north temperate zone and have the
opportunity of enjoying the drama of the seasons
at its best.

From Candlemas Day,- on the second of Febru-
ary, when the ground hog comes out to see whether
he can cast "a shadow, Old Man Winter—some-
times subtly, sometimes with open ferocity—is
contending with the advancing Springtide, know-
ing full well he is fighting a losing battle!

March plays sometimes on the side of Spring,
which she is in nature bound to deliver to us
around the twenty—first, but it is her delight to
keep us guessing. Long ago some old wiseacres
observed that quite often, if she came in gently,
she made a fierce exit, and if she came in with the

roar of a lion she would go out meekly as a lamb..

She sometimes fools us, even on this score, but it
has held good often enough to become a. tradition.
This tradition has suggested as an apprOpriate
and somewhat different March social activity a
“Lion and Lamb” 'Party. Since spring and winter
vie all through the month for first place, what
could be more appropriate than to have an eve-
ning of contests between the Lions and Lambs?
Divide the guests into two groups—the men
may be the Lions and the ladies the Lambs—or
mix the groups, if that seems more desirable. The
illustrations shown in this article suggest two
types of cards on which the names of guests may
be printed, thus dividing them into two groups.
There are many types of contests simple enough
for everyone at the party to enter. The more dif-
ficult contests may be used by selecting a few con-
testants from each side and asking them to per-
form in front of the group. If you listen to the

radio, you are no doubt familiar with “Informa-
tion Please,” “Take It or Leave It,” “Truth or
Consequences,” and other similar programs. The
rules governing these contests may be adapted to
almost any party theme. We have taken a number
of the popular contests and developed them par-
tially so as to suggest how they may be done.
Once a committee begins working on them, they
will be amazed at the information they can find
on lions and lambs.

Conundrums

There is an appropriate conundrum found in the
Old Testament, and for the entire story one
should read the fourteenth chapter of Judges.
Samson went to Timnath to secure a wife, and at

a feast given for thirty companions he suggested
a riddle:

“Out of the eater came forth meat and
Out of the strong came forth sweetness.”

The feast was to last seven days, and if they
could give the answer before it. was over, they
would receive as a reward thirty sheets and thirty
changes of raiment. If you do not know how they
were able to say to Samson at the end of the
seventh day, “What is sweeter, than honey and
what is stronger that a lion?” turn to the story in
your Bible and read it.

Take It or Leave It

One of the popular contests is “Take It or
Leave It.” The rule of this contest is that the con-
testant receives a dollar if he is able to answer the
first question. He may keep the dollar or decide
he wishes to take a chance on being able to answer
the next question, for which he would receive two
dollars. If he misses, he loses the dollar already
won. Each time he answers a question he doubles
his money. Thus he may win one, two, four, eight,

647

648 LION AND LAMB PARTY

sixteen, thirty-two, and finally sixty—four dollars.

He may Win any of these amounts and stop; if he

decides to go on and misses a question, he must

give back his .winnings. Instead of paying money,

the hostess may arrange a “grab bag” of inexpen-

sive gifts. Several lists of subjects should be

posted so the contestant may choose one with

which he is familiar. For instance, lambs and lions

mentioned in history; facts about lions and lambs;

lions and lambs mentioned in the Bible.
Here are some questions you might use for the

latter theme:

Question: Who was cast into the den of the lions?

Answer: Daniel

Question: W ho slew a lion while tending sheep?

Answer: David

Question: Who found honey in a lion’s carcass?

Answer: Samson .

Question: In the prophesy of the Peaceable King-
dom what is said of the lamb?

Answer: “The wolf shall lie down with the lamb?”

Question: What is the same prophesy about the
lion?

Answer: “The calf shall lie down with the young
lion.”

Question: Quote a verse in the New Testament
about ,the Good Shepherd and His Sheep.

Answer: “I am the Good Shepherd and am known
by my Sheep.”

Question: What animal is used to symbolize the
Saviour? '

Answer: The lamb

Multiple Choice

Questions" about lambs or lions are written
ahead of time on separate sheets of paper, and a
number of suggested answers are given below each
question. Check the correct answer. The sheets
are passed out to the guests who have a limited
amount of time in which to '

answer them.
Here are some examples:

When a lamb eats, it
\/ 1. wiggles its tail
2. 'holds it still
3. holds it straight up
A lamb has teeth in
1. upper jaw only
\/2. lower jaw only
3. both jaws
A lion is a native of
1. India

\/2. Africa
3. Australia

A lamb is kept in captivity in a

l. pen
\/2. fold

3. corral
A lion is
1. herbivorous
2. diurnal
3. biennial
\/4. carnivorous

A lioness is distinguished by its

1. large mane
2. small bicuspids
\/3. lack of mane

4. color

I
Truth and Consequences '

t
The rule is simple. First ask the question. If I

the player misses the question, he must pay the
consequences.

“Facts about the month of March” is the sub-
ject of this quiz. The committee should think of a
number of consequences pertaining to this month,
such as “Dramatize Caesar and the Ides of

March,” etc. I

Here are some suggested questions:

Question: What is the source of the word

“March” ?

Answer: The pagan god of war, Mars.
Question: Place the month of March in the winter
solstice.
Answer: At the endw—December 22nd to March
zlst
Question: What is the birthstone for March?
Answer: Bloodstone or jasper
Question: What are the Ides of March? I
Answer: March 15th ,
Question: Name the special days in the month of
March.
Answer: St. Patrick’s Day and sometimes Easte
Question: Who was the March Hare?
Answer: A character fro
“Alice in Wonderland,’
by Carroll

Challenges

To play this game, on
person is chosen from eac
side and each is “challenged
to recite the most poems o
jingles in which the wor
“lamb” or “lion” is use
To make it easier, allo
them to use also the wor

(Continued on page 696)

a

"Compulsory" Recreation for Mothers

By VERNE B. THORPE and JENA V. HOLLAND

ll OMPULSORY” recrea—
l C tion! What a mis-

leading term to ap-
[ply to a program of recre—
ation activities! And yet,

that is how many of the in a

',4,500 mothers of preschool
children in Utah have_be-
come active participants in an extensive recreation

|program. When the Community WPA 'Play'

-Schools for preschool children were organized in
Utah, simultaneously an organization for mothers
.was developed which has become one of the most
.interesting recreational organizations of the state.

Organization and Operating Policies

In 1938, the Work Projects Administration
issued operation procedure W-I6 which authorized
the organization and establishment of play centers
for preschool children under the direction of the
\VPA Recreation Project. In the early organiza-
tion period, state staff members recognized that
planning for the mothers of the children was as
i important as planning for the children. After con-
siderable discussion on the importance of linking
parent-child interests in the child play center
movement, the

following poli-
cies were adopt-
ed which, at the
outset, compel
.mothers to be-
come active
participants in
the child-parent
.play center de-
veIOpments as
members of an
organization
lknown as the
.M o t h e r 3’
Clubs:

1. An; organiza-
tion known as
the Mo thers’
Club shall be

In the State of Utah, during the
past three years, more than 4,500 will be established. Each
mothers have-found "compulsory"
recreation to be iust recreation
most satisfying form!

 

organized in each community
before a play school center

mother of the Mothers’ Club
will have a definite appoint-
ment as an officer of the club.
The, following elective officers
will be set up yearly for each
local club: president; vice-
president ; secretary; historian ;
chairman or member of the following committees:
building committee; supply and equipment committee;
finance committee; home and school coordination com-
mittee; or publicity committee. All officers are to be
filled through popular vote of the group of mothers.
Each mother will have a definite responsibility in the
'club, and in keeping with good community organiza-
tion consequently will feel “needed” as an active mem-
ber of the group.

2. Mothers’ Clubs are to meet as a group not less than
twice a month for not less than one hour and a half.
Respective committee groups are to meet as often
as the respective committee chairman or president of
the Mothers’ Club calls a meeting.

3. Every mother must be registered as a member of the
local Mothers’ Club before her child may be admitted
to the play school.

4. If a mother is absent from the Mothers’ Club meet-
ings three times in succession Without a legitimate
excuse, she forfeits her membership in the club and
and her child is automatically dropped from the play

school. The child

is replaced by an-
other child whose
name is first on the
waiting list, and
the new mother
becomes a mem-
ber of the club.

5. Dues for the
Mothers’ Club
shall not ex—
ceed $3.00 per

annum for each
mother. How-
ever, groups of
mothers may
assess them-
selves what-
ever they agree
on for special
projects for the
play school.

649

Courtesy Hebcr City, Utah, Play School

650 “COIMPULSORY” RECREATION FOR MOTHERS

6. Each mother must visit the play school for one
entire session at least twice every month. This
will constitute a unit of laboratory training for
the mother.

7. A training program for mothers who wish to
assist in the play school will be developed. Any
mother wishing to assist as a play school leader
in the play school will be obliged to attend a pre-
service training conference and must assume an
assistant job for not less than one month for a
daily afternoon or morning session.

8. Suggestive yearly programs are to be made avail-
able to the presidents of the Mothers’ Clubs
through the state recreation office.

9. The state recreation staff shall be responsible for
conducting a state-wide survey on child develop-
ment problems to determine if possible in what
areas mothers of preschool children seem to need
help most.

10. Following the state-wide survey, which would
reach over one thousand mothers of preschool
children, the state staff will assume responsibility
for writing bulletins which will serve as disCUs—
sion manuals for Mothers’ Club meetings. These
bulletins would deal, in the main, with areas in
which the survey revealed the majority of moth—
ers had limited information of modern practices
with preschool children.

11. The state staff would also prepare leaHets for
discussion on problems which the survey showed
were not of major importance to the majority of
mothers, but of importance to some mothers.

12. Leaflets are also to be prepared in various areas
not covered in the survey such as: “Suitable
Books for Preschool Children”; “Educational
Toys and Their Value”; “Stories for Preschool
Children and How to Tell Them."

13. All play school leaders shall be trained in tech—
niques of conducting Mothers’ Club meetings and
also in techniques for conducting women’s recrea-
tional activities.

Over fifteen hundred mothers are active mem—
bers in the Mothers’ Clubs in the state of Utah
each year. Each club has a membership of twenty,
as twenty is the maximum number of children who
are enrolled in any one session of play school.
(The morning sessions of play school operate from
9:00 to 12:00 A. M. and the afternoon sessions
from I :30 to 4:00 P.  A child is enrolled in
either the morning or afternoon session, but is
never allowed to attend both sessions because of
the need for other children to attend the play school.
In many communities the demand for admittance
to the play schools is so great that a split-session
procedure is used, which means that forty children
would be enrolled in the two sessions the first half
of the year, and forty new ones for the second half

of the year. This necessitates the reorganization
of the Mothers’ Club at midterm, but mothers are
invited to attend the club meetings throughout the I
year and succeeding years. The Mothers’ Clubs l
are not limited solely to the mothers of the play
school children, but are open to all persons inter—
ested in child welfare in the community. How-
ever, only mothers of preschool children have vot—
ing power in the clubs. Many of the Mothers’
Club meetings are held in the evenings and are
largely attended by the fathers.

Minimum Requirements for Child Play Centers

From the list of operating policies previously
reviewed, it is clear that the Mothers’ Club is the
sponsoring agency for the play schools. The
Mothers’ Clubs are responsible for having the local
play school meet the state minimum facility and

- equipment requirements for play school set up by '

the state staff of recreation as follows:

Indoor Space Minimum Requirements. Indoor
space of not less than thirty-five square feet per
child must be provided to permit the conducting
of several different activities without crowding.
This space must be well ventilated, free from
dampness, supplied with enough window space that
artificial lighting is necessary only on the darkest
days, and serviced by a heating system which will
maintain an even temperature of approximately
seventy degrees Fahrenheit. There should be in

the indoor space:
Inside toilets available at child level.
Sufficient exits to evacuate all in case of fire.
Sanitary drinking water readily accessible.
Soap and individual towels and cloak hooks.

Standard table and chairs of suitable height.
(All tables with rough surfaces to be covered with
wall board or inlaid linoleum.)

Library table and chairs and book rack or case.

One or more sand tables and large and small
blocks.

Individual locker for each child where he may
place individual playthings, rug, etc.

Art display board and two or more standard
easels.

Three or more low open shelves where material
and items to be used by all children may be
placed.

Individual rugs for resting of appropriate tex-
ture. size and color.

' “COMPULSORY” RECREATION FOR MOTHERS 651

An adequate supply of
materials which appeal to
young children, such as sim—
ple puzzles, large crayons,
plasticine, costumes, weav-
ing looms, colored cubes,

All floors in poor condi—
tion must be painted or cov-
ered with linoleum, the latter preferred, and all
equipment and woodwork in the facility should be
painted to harmonize into an attractive color

scheme.

Outdoor Area Minimum Requirements. If pos—
sible, have an area which can be used in all sea-

sons, with shade for summer and a well—drained]

surface fOr winter. Sixty square feet per child is
recommended.

There should be one or more sand tables and
two or more swings,“ balance boards and other
child playground equipment which encourages
large muscle development activities. The area
should be located so that it can be reached with—
out unusually bad traffic hazards.

This plan gives the mothers a direct interest in
the development of the focal play school. It also
places the reSponsibility in the hands of those per-
sons in the community who ordinarily are most
concerned with child development.

A Typical Mothers’ Club Meeting

The Mothers’ Club meetings are conducted by
the president of the club. A typical program
might be as follows: Greetings by the president;
reading of the minutes of the last meeting and roll
call by the secretary; report from mothers who
have visited play school since the last meeting; in-
troduction of discussion leader followed by the dis-
cussion of a problem relative to child development ;
committee reports by committee chairmen; dis—
cussion of play school developments and problems
by the play school leader; social activities directed
‘ by the social committee. The following social ac-
 tivities have seemed to be most popular: picnics,
‘ sewing bees, candy pulls, toy making sessions,
card playing,.and group singing.

Parent Activities Resulting from
Play Center Program

However, the social activities engaged in as a
part of the regular Mothers’ Club meetings are
only a minor portion of the recreation activities
which are enjoyed through membership in the

The September I940 issue of Recreation
contained an article by Mr. Thorpe and Mrs.
Holland under the titleI I'Play Schools for
the Preschool Child." In this article the au-
thors,who are, respectively, the State Super-
visor and Assistant State Supervisor of Rec-
reation for WPAl tell of the important part
toys. being played by Mothers' Clubs in the
operation of play schools throughout Utah.

Mothers’ Clubl For exam-
ple, each mother is invited
to act as co—hostess with the
play school leader when her
child has a birthday. What
gay and worth—while experi—
ences the mother enjoys in
being able to have a party
for her child in a setting
which is conducive to children’s parties, where
children’s games can be enjoyed exuberantly!
There were uniform tables'which held attractive
centerpieces and favors; chairs for each child; a
piano for music; plenty of space indoors and out
for the party games. And what pleasure to plan
with a person who is technically trained to assist
her with her plans! Instead of a mother being
“worn ‘out” after entertaining for her child, she
has had as much fun as any of the children.

Children and mothers enjoy Hallowe’en, Thanks-
giving, Christmas and Valentine parties together,
and on one happy day each year the children en—
tertain their mothers and do all the planning. In
addition to these activities enjoyed by the mothers
and children together, there are at least four times
each year when the children give demonstrations
of what they like to do for their mothers and
fathers and brothers and sisters. These demon—
strations may consist of a “Rhythm Rendezvous,”
as one play school called its entertainment of
rhythm band numbers, free rhythmic interpreta-
tions of animals and birds, and creative individual
rhythmic body patterns which they had been en—
joying at play school. Another demonstration,
called “An Evening in Mother Goose Land,” gave
the children an opportunity to recite, sing, tell and
dance adaptations of antics of characters associated
with Mother Goose which they had always known.
The demonstrations are followed by refreshments
a_nd basket luncheons, and complete the family-
child picture by having the whole family present.

Father is also present at another interesting
recreation activity. The supply and equipment
committee invites the fathers to many craft classes
in the late afternoons and evenings, where they
engage in making suitable equipment for the play

, schools. Many enjoyable hours are spent by the

fathers as they discover heretofore unknown
ability in fashioning sturdy child furniture for the
play house corner, or making multiple large and
small blocks, in constructing individual lockers
for each child, in demonstrating fine workmanship

652 “COMPULSORY” RECREATION FOR MOTHERS .

on the easels, and in building an attractive library
table and book rack.

These all represent many happy hours of worth—
while craft. The mothers, too, participate in the
craft activities. They have sewn carpet rags which
have been woven into individual rugs which the
children may use for resting; they have made at-
tractive curtains and drapes for the play school,
and in many of the schools have studied interior
decorating and assisted in decorating the play
schoolroom, always artistically, since one of the
minimum requirements of all play schools in the
state is an attractive color scheme carried through-
out the facilities.

The finance committee of the Mothers’ Club
occasionally presents to the club ways and means
of raising money for special child play equipment
or materials or other attractive child projects. The
group determines whether or not it wishes to un-
dertake a special project. Each Mothers’ Club
during the past three years has accomplished one
special project, and many clubs have completed
several during the year. Junglegyms, pianos, large
rugs for group activities, graphonolas, standard
tables and chairs, complete innoculations and vac-
cinations and dental care are some of the special
projects the Mothers’ Clubs are realizing.

Raising money for these special projects also
gives the mothers opportunities for recreation ac-
tivities. Many of the clubs have produced three
act plays; one club put on a Negro minstrel;
another,had a bazaar; still another club had a
candy and cake day in which the mothers met at
the high school domestic science rooms and all
cooked together. One club selected a suitable
movie for children and had fine cooperation from
the local theater in obtaining a substantial per-
centage from the proceeds. A club in a rural com-
munity sponsored a community fair and the ex-
hibits were sold to urban people who visited the
fair. A hobby show was one group’s project. The
pleasureable recreation activities enjoyed were the
high points—not the completion of the project.

Because excursions and nature activities are an
integral part of any five year old child’s plan'for
happiness, mothers and children are again brought
together in joyful experience in making the ac—
quaintance of social and related sciences. Mothers
accompany the children on their many excursions.

Hikes and field trips are enjoyed by mothers and
children together.

 
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  

Other Values

While mothers are enjoying this extensive pro—
gram of recreation activities, they are also learn-
ing, through the Mothers’ Club meetings, the new-
est techniques of meeting child problems. Inas-
much as play fills the greatest portion of the child’s
life, the mothers are being trained through actual
participation in discussion groups, experimenta—
tion, lectures and demonstrations, on the under—
lying principles and philosophies of play and suc-
cessful modern practices with young children.

What this training may mean during the war
period to the fifteen hundred mothers who are
trained in child development yearly in the state of
Utah only time can show. However, what it
means to the family of every mother will always
be apparent. And during the training period, it is
such fun! The “compulsory” recreation for moth—
ers was compulsory only in the beginning as rec-
Ords show that twelve is the maximum number of
mothers in any one year who have been dropped
from the Mothers’ Clubs over the entire state.

if any justification is necessary, perhaps “com~
pulsory” recreation for mothers is, to alcertain
extent, comparable to compulsory education for
children of the United States. Every individual
needs to reach a certain level in order to live ins
telligently and thus happily. Frequently this level
will never be reached unless there exists an or-
ganization to introduce the individual to its many
avenues and acquaint him with his opportunity to
contribute to the joy of living through active par—
ticipation. ‘

In connection with the play school program, the
VVPA Recreation Project has issued a series of
Play School Activities Bulletins designed to pro-
mote the exchange of creative program material
between the various play centers, throughout the
state, and, further, to encourage. creative expres—
sion on the part of the play leaders working on
the project. The Bulletin is prepared by the lead-
ers and the material is entirely original.

As an example of the material contained in the
Bulletin, the January 1942 issue, which is the
eighth of the series, features a number of stories,
some songs and rhythms, a collection of short
poems, several arts and crafts projects, and sug
gestions for hobbies. The leaders have found the
use of this material highly successful at their re
spective centers and are glad to contribute it tha
“other children may enjoy many happy hours.”

 

Hare Party

‘ ! Si“! tLuLW . . .
ARCH, so OFfI‘EN COLD, [({((( ' t Iii litutwvm/ consolation prize for thechild
M windy and generally ' l ' ‘9‘“  @ who has found the fewest. If
disagreeable, is just //  ‘1’, Mali};  you wish, use toy playing

. “4'0" tin-4» d t d f t d
the tune of the year when , 3.3.1.31“ ...- \ car s 1ns ea 0 pic ure car 5.
fun-provoking, jolly activities  éméoé}? \\\\\}-§l Then let each Chlld sit on the
are welcome. So why not  N as  { floor and make a de51gn Wlth

have a March Hare Party for \, the cards he has found.

the younger children attended
by their Alice in Wonder-
land friends?

The Invitation

The mad March Hare
Is coming here.
He always comes

This time of year,
So come to the party and don’t be late,

March the eleventh is the date.
Address

The invitation may be written in zigzag fashion
to make it look like Bill the Lizard, or it may be
written backward, to be read in a mirror. Use
some bright colored paper—— green or yellow or
pink is attractive. Write the invitation with a gay
colored contrasting ink—bright blue on Renoir
pink, or sulphur; navy blue on fuchsia.

Time

Party Games

In looking for new party games, do not be dis-
couraged if you come across the same old games

ELOISE FERRIER

in different dress. Remember the old saying,.

’3

.“There’s nothing new under the sun. It’s the
new way of presenting a game that makes it dif-
ferent. Use some of the old favorites in new garb.
The supply of new games never quite meets the
demand, so it helps to try to make the old ones

“different.”

A Card Hunt. Paste pictures of people from
Alice in \Vonderland and from Mother Goose and
other nursery rhymes on cards the size of playing
cards. These characters may include Alice, the
White Rabbit, the Queen of Hearts, the Cheshire
Cat, Humpty Dumpty, Simple Simon, Old King
Cole, Little Jack Horner, Old Mother Hubbard,
and others. Hide these cards all over the room——
in the fireplace, under cushions, back of curtains

nd doors. The children can hunt for the cards,
{Sid when all have been found a prize may be given
I the child who has found the most cards, and a

Rabbit Race. The two com—
peting teams stand back of a
line; Each child places hands
on knees (or hands at either
side of head), forefingers
pointing upward like long
ears, and jumps like a rabbit
to a goal about ten feet away.
At the word, “Go,” a boy or girl from each team
begins to jump. The second person in each line
cannot start until the first passes him on his way
back and touches him off. The rabbits must jump
to the goal, but are permitted to run back.

Or if the children are very small, you need not
have teams. Each child may hop like a rabbit
down the length of the room and back. The first
child back wins. If a prize is given to the winner,
it is well to give a consolation prize to the last
one back.

Rabbit in the Garden. Select two well-matched
runners to play “gardener” and “rabbit.” Have
the others form a circle by holding hands. The
gardener stays outside the circle (his garden),
strolling around it. He suddenly looks up and
discovers0 the rabbit inside the circle and says,
“Who let you in my garden?” The rabbit replies,
“No one,” and then the chase is on. The rabbit
weaves in and out of the circle, around the play-
ers, w'gh the gardener in pursuit following the
exact path of the rabbit. If the gardener fails at
any time to follow, the leader calls, “Time,” and
the rabbit selects a new gardener. If he catches
(tags) the rabbit, the gardener joins the circle,
and the rabbit becomes the new gardener.

As soon as players have learned this game they
should play it under their own leadership in small
groups of eight or ten.

The Race of the Red Queen and the White Queen.

The two competing teams stand back of a line.
At the word, “Go,” the child at the head of each

653

654 A MAD MARCH HARE PARTY

team takes two steps forward and then one step
backward. Again he takes two steps forward and
then one step backward. This continues until they
reach a goal a few feet away, or the opposite wall.
The second person in each line cannot start until
the first passes him on his way back and touches
him off. The players are permitted to walk back
naturally, but they are not allowed to run.

Going to Wonderland. Arrange chairs as you
would for “Going to Jerusalem” in a row in the
center of the room, so that they face alternately in
opposite directions, one chair to one side, the next
to the opposite side, and so on. The children take
seats, and the leader gives each child a name of
some character in Alice in VVonderland—Alice,
the Cheshire Cat, the Dormouse, the Pig, the
White Rabbit, the Nurse, the Duchess, and others.

The leader then tells a story bringing in the
different characters. As their names are called,
the children rise and march around the row of
chairs. After they have all marched, one chair is
taken away so that there will be one chair less than
the number of players. When the leader ends her
story with, “They fell into the pool of tears,” all
scramble for a seat. There will be one person left
without a seat. The child left out may continue
to tell the story if he is good at it. The game con—
tinues until there is one child left, who is given a
small prize. The children must not touch the chairs
as they march about them, nor climb over them
to reach an empty chair on the opposite side.

Follow the Hare. The leader might wear a March
Hare hat and carry a cane. He walks around the
row repeating, “I’m going to Wonderland! I’m
going to Wonderland !” in a singsong voice. When
he knocks with his cane on the floor behind the
chair of some player, that player gets up and fol-
lows the leader. The next
player summoned with the
cane follows this one, and
so on until all are moving
around in single file. The
leader may reverse his di-
rection at pleasure. When
all the players are up, they
continue to march about to
music which may be slow or
fast time. At any moment
the music may stop sud-
(lenly. Then the players
scramble for seats. The
player left without a seat

There are some interesting historical facts
and traditions associated with the month of
March. Before January and February were
introduced into the calendar. the Roman
year had only ten monthsI and MarchI named
in honor of the god Mars. was the first in-
stead of the third month. In the Middle
Ages the year was usually reckoned as be-
ginning March 25th. and England did not
abandon this practice until I752. The last
three days of the month were once sup-
posed to have been borrowed from April.
and according to an old proverb they are
always stormy. Everyone is familiar with
the old saying about March: "If it comes
in like a lion it will go out like a lamb."

retires from the game, taking with him one of the
chairs. This continues until there are two players
and one chair left. The one who secures the re-
maining chair wins the game.

The March Wind (Rhythmic Play)

Music—Light, quick music that children can skip or run to.

Formation—Single circle—all hands joined. Facing center
(partners). These children are “the wind.” Several
children standing about in center of circle. without
partners. They are “the trees.”

PART I

The Wind: Eight counts. children, forming circle,
skip lightly to the left (or eight little running
steps to left).

Eight counts. Repeat above to the right.

The Trees: Children in the center of circle raise
arms up and down and move fingers quickly to
look like leaves.

PART 2

Eight counts. Children, forming circle, join left
hands with partner and skip lightly around part-
ner (or eight little running steps).

The Wind: Eight counts. Join right hands with
partner and skip lightly around partner (or
eight little runnning steps).

The Trees: Children in center skip (or run) lightly.
in little circles to look like leaves fluttering in
the wind.

Repeat the dance. The music should be light
and very quick. This time the children in the
center can bend like trees for Part I, and slap
hands together very lightly to suggest falling rain
in Part 2.

Let’s Go to the Dining Room

\V rite “The Way to the Dining Room” on small
cards and give one to each child. Have the direc-
tions written backwards so
that they must be held in
front of a mirror to be read.

The entrance to the din-
ing room must be made to
look like the door to the
March Hare’s home—“the
rabbit hole.” Place branches
and pussy willow buds across
top of door and branches at
the sides and bottom of en-l
trance. To enter, the child
should lift his feet carefullyl
and step through the rabbit I

hole. (Contimwd on page 69])

The Soldier in Daytona Beach

By ROBERT HUNTER
City Publicity Director
Daytona Beach. Florida

to serve them. Activities at the
center include a checking service
where the soldiers may leave pack-

A s MANY AS 5,000 soldiers have

made over-night visits to
Daytona Beach, and the choice

of the great majority when indi- ages without charge, table games

vidual leave—taking comes is to re-visit this resort of all types, and dancing.

citv which has made so great an effort to make The city itself provides ample Opportunities for

them happy while they are here. "on your own" recreation. It has a superb ocean
The City Recreation Department, headed by C. front promenade or boardwalk and a masswe band

R. Allen, has approach-
ed the problem from the
point of view that if
sufficient wholesome
recreation facilities are
provided there will be
a minimum of com-
plaints from citizens and
non—military visitors.
The program has
worked most success-
fully in our city with the
result that citizens have
found groundless their
fears that too many sol—
diers would have a
harmful effect on the
city’s normal tourist
and vacation population.
Less than 100 miles
from Daytona Beach is
huge Camp Blanding
which is training 60,700
draftees. Soldiers visit
the city not only on
their personal leave per-
iods but on training
manoeuvers, and the
city has designated a
large camping ground
for the men where it is
Ha common sight to see
Trundreds of pup tents,
field pieces, military
kitchens, and other
army trappings.
Daytona Beach has
five community build—
ings and an athletic
ield which are open to
the soldiers and operated

 

shell where programs of
music or amateur nights
are frequently staged.
The bands with the
convoys are invited to
use the band shell and
loud speaker equipment
free of charge, and thou-
sands of people gather
to hear these concerts.
Concessions of the car-
nival type line the
boardwalk.

There is ample op-
portunity for public
dancing and other en-
tertainment. The Rec-
reation Department,
however, under the
leadership of Mrs. Betty
Lyons as hostess, some
time ago decided to ar-
range dances at a casino
owned and operated by
the city. Assisted by
Mrs. Mary E. Janes,
WPA defense hostess,
she has tackled the
problem of making it
possible for the boys to
meet girls similar to
those with whom they
associated at home.

Over 325 women
were secured from
among the membership
of women’s clubs to, act
as volunteer hostesses.
Each hostess was listed
by the Recreation De-

(Coutimted on page 698)

655»

National Trends in Defense Recreation

NE DEVELOPMENT
0 which has especially

attracted the atten-
tion of recreation leaders,
both public and private,
has been the increasing
recognition given to this
phase of our national life
by the federal government.
This extended interest be—
gan largely with the fed—
eral emergency program
of relief and re-employ—
ment. \Ve are all familiar with the tremendous
expansion of facilities on federal, state and local
property which were made usable for recreation,
and with the large numbers of workers assigned
to both public and private recreation programs. A
number of regular federal departments, as well as
new emergency agencies, enlarged their recreation
services. While these extended recreation assets
were, in a sense, the by-product of what was fun-
damentally a relief and re-employment program,
government forces—wfederal, state and local-rec-
ognized, as never before, the role of recreation in
maintaining public morale in a time of severe eco—
nomic crisis. As evidence of this, among the lead-
ers who participated'in the discussion of national
defense problems at the National Recreation Con-—
gress in Baltimore were prominent representa—
tives of the Army and Navy and of a number of
federal departments.

When the present national defense program was
Set up, recreation for men in training and for
workers in industrial centers was considered, from
the outset, as one of the most important factors.
Whereas in the first World War, the War and
Navy Departments, through a joint commission,
called upon outside private agencies to provide
recreation for service men within the camps, this
time the military and naval authorities accepted
full responsibility for giving such service as an
integral part of the government’s training pro—
gram. In addition, through the Federal Security
Agency, the federal government assumed respon—
sibility for helping individual localities organize
their local recreation resources to. serve men in
training and workers in defense industries.

656

By CHARLES E. REED
National Recreation Association

As we begin a new year of activity. a year
in which the recreation movement must play
an increasingly important part in the total
war effort. it. is helpful to review briefly
the trends of the past year in defense rec-
reation. and some of the developments in a
rapidly shifting scene. Mr. Reed's summary
of national trends was given at the annual
meeting of the New Jersey Park and Recrea-
tion Association held at Trenton. New Jersey.

Significant, too, is the
increased responsibility
which the federal govern-
ment has accepted to meet
the cost of recreation ser—
vices in the defense pro—
gram. Within the camps,
this cost is met entirely by
the Army and Navy De-
partments. In addition,
'substantial sums have been
made available through the
Federal Security Agency

and other agencies to provide field organizing ser-

vice and to erect' club houses in communities ad-
jaeent to training centers, primarily for the use of
service men. The assistance provided by the
United Service Organizations in manning these
buildings is being financed from private funds. In
the first World War, funds used to provide rec-
reation service for men in the camps and in the
adjacent communities, and for the workers in the
industrial defense communities came from private
sources.

Both before and since the inauguration of the
defense program, the President has stressed re-
peatedly the significance of recreation as a vital
element in total defense. Recently Mrs. Roose-
velt, speaking as Assistant Director of Civilian
Defense, was reported to have told representatives
of some forty youth_organizations that the largesj
contribution they could make to civilian defens
activities would be insistence on increased recreaq
tion facilities in the average community, particu- I
larly in the important defense centers. The Unite
States Office of Civilian Defense has included:
within the framework of its program the promo—.
tion of a nation-wide campaign of physical fitness
designed to stimulate public and private agencie '
on all levels to a maximum use of all the physica
education and recreation resources at their com-g
mand.

What is significant with reference to recreati01
leadership? For one thing, the role of the volun
teer leader and helper in defense recreation i
already important. Public recreation agencies i
cities which reported their work for 1940 in th
Year Book of the National Recreation Association

NATIONAL TRENDS IN DEFENSE RECREATION 657

showed 35,054 volunteers (approximately 37% of
them as activity leaders) as compared with less
than 25,000 in 1938 and 8,216 in 1930." These
lflgures do not include the large numbers of addi-
itional volunteers who serve the programs of pri-
‘vate recreation agencies. In the all-out effort of
lthe National Civilian Defense Program to re-
cruit, train, and assign unprecedented numbers of
volunteers to all of the phases of our national de-
fense effort, there will be added to the leadership
of public and private recreation programs a very
large number of such workers. We find Splendid
examples of extensive use of volunteers in de—
fense recreation and other community endeavors
among our Canadian neighbors.

In thinking of the stimulus which the national _

defense program will bring to increased funds for
recreation, let us not lose sight of the many extra
contributions which will become available continu—

' ously from private sources in all of the localities. ‘

Substantial funds have already been raised by the
USO, by denominational church groups, and by
other regional or national bodies which will be
sing at least portions of their budgets for special
ecreation services, particularly in the communi-
ies near camps and in the defense industrial com-
munities. Included also are increased programs
nd funds provided by industries, especially in the
xpanded manufacturing
enters. Add to these con-
ributions the value of all of

 

 

In cities everywhere last year, new centers
were established or existing facilities ex-
panded to meet the needs of the service men

r~  «  ". - i

the volunteer leadership service, and the total will
represent an impressive expenditure beyond the
regularly allotted budgets of established public
and private recreation agencies.

“Post Defense Planning” and “Planning the
Kind of World We Want After the Defense
Emergency” are slogans heard particularly from
some of the leaders in Washington. Such slogans
refiect increasing recognition of the place of long—
range planning in the consideration of our na-
tional developments.

Early in the present defense planning, the Fed-
eral Security Agency, through its Division of
Recreation, proclaimed that the community club
houses to be built in camp communities and indus-
trial defense localities should be planned so as to
provide a continuing service to the communities
after the defense emergency had passed. Too,
where such camp or manufacturing communities
were without a locally financed public recreation
program under full-time leadership, the Federal
Security Agency has urged the communities to
establish such a service as the basis for much of
its community-wide recreation provision for the
men in uniform and for industrial workers. In
both of these respects in the first World War, the
government and the localities planned only for the
immediate emergency needs. No special consider—
ation was given to continu-
ance of such services per-
manently.

%.-

Caurtesy Monroe, La., Recreation Department

658

This long-range attitude of the federal govern-
ment in the present emergency is further indi-
cated in the following statement made by Gover-
nor McNutt at the recent National Recreation
Congress in Baltimore: “The American people
.need recreation as a part of national defense, but
it will be a tragic mistake to regard it only as an
emergency stimulant for national morale.”

\Ve are told that the National Resources Plan—
ning Board has available a list of essential public
works projects for post—defense development if
necessary. No doubt many of these call for the
development of park, school and other types of
publicly owned properties suitable for recreation
purposes. In addition, one sees how the work of
many state and local planning bodies now in ex—
istence will touch recreation as well as other
aspects of community life during and after the
defense period.

In the concentrated industrial centers, in par-
ticular, the federal defense housing program,
though slow to do so at first, is now giving in-
creasing consideration to adequate recreation.

United Thinking

What should be considered with reference to co-
operation among recreation agencies? The na-
tional defense needs present a new call for more
united thinking and for consistent cooperation on
the part of all community forces, national, state
and local, both public and private. No one group
has a mandate to do all, to the exclusion of others.
In a recent oint session, the National Social Work
Council and the Community Chests and Councils,
Inc., included the following among other items of
a working document: “All social agencies, public
and private, local and national, owe a heavy obli~
gation to their supporters to make the most ef-
fective use possible of every dollar made available.
This end will not be achieved if competition rules
out cooperative planning. Cooperative planning
becomes increasingly imperative in a period when
our givers face heavy new financial obligations.”

During the recent emergency years, the Na-
tional Education—Recreation Council has held fre-
quent meetings to consider cooperatively problems
faced by national education—recreation agencies,
both public and private, including federal depart-
ments. Since the emergence of the national de—
fense program, two meetings of the Council have
been held in Washington to facilitate attendance
by representatives of more of the government
agencies engaged in or concerned with recreation.

NATIONAL TRENDS IN DEFENSE RECREATION

On the community level, the years just passed

planning bodies, as well as between representa~
tives of both public and private forces. There has
been greater awareness by all of the need to work
together on the total public recreation needs of the
localities. Too, a demand for greater economy in
the use of tax funds and of private contributions
will be part of the urge for increased effectiveness
in the administration of our recreation services.

Agencies Volunteer

On every side, the inauguration of the national
defense effort brought offers of assistance to the
government by recreation agencies and authorities
from all functioning levels. Especially have the
local public recreation forces in the nation felt a
responsibility to cooperate with the .Federal Se-
curity Agency in the government’s new under-
taking. Many of the staff members of the Recre~
ation Division of the Federal Security Agency
have been drawn from the personnel of municipal
recreation departments, while others have come
from both public and private national agencies.

Throughout the depression years, as well as in
the present defense period, the National Recrea—
tion Association has felt a special obligation to
cooperate as fully as possible with all agencies of
the federal government which have been given
outstanding responsibility for important programs

t
have brought more evidence of joint meetings be-
tween local park, recreation and school boards and

'I

of recreation service. In recent months several;

members of the Association’s field staff were given
leaves of absence to work with the Federal Se-l
curity Agency. Much time and effort by additional
staff workers has been contributed to this and to
other government forces in an effort to mak
available to these new programs full informatim
derived from the Association’s community wor
in the first World W ar, as well as from its thirty
five years of service to American communities.
What of the special significance of the commu
nity as a focal point in our national defense pre
parations? More and more we realize that f0
you and for me national defense is right where w
live; hence, every community in America is a de
fense locality. Since this is so, we need to be 0
guard that our zeal for the more spectacular na
tional phases of our present program does no
lead us to neglect important recreation needs 0
our normal home communities. We have all hear
expressions of concern from people in our local

(Continued on page 694)

l
IA New Bowling Game

  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
  

game of bowling.

:lso more resilient.

. e secured the game will
e much more quiet.

The Cage. The cage
as made in our craft
op by one of our in—
_ ructors. It is con-
ructed of two by two
ch wood and half inch
ire mesh, with a mat
' er the wire to absorb
e force and noise of
lls and pins. Angle
ons are used to rein—
rce all corners. The
mensions arc: length

By GRANT D. BRANDON

Director of Recreation

Lancaster. Pennsylvania

HEN THE LANCASTER, Pennsylvania, Recre-
W ation Association discovered that duck pins

were available from a local bowling alley, it
was only a short time before a new game had been
devised which is proving an
excellent lead—up game and a
substitute for the regulation

Equipment Required

The Ball. A two pound, I4-
inch ball of hard red rubber
similar to a baseball is used.
he ball was especially con-
structed for the game. In our experimentation we
ound a red ball preferable to the black rubber‘
I s it left no mark on the iioor. The red ball is

Duck Pins. Discarded duck pins from local alleys
re used. If pins with rubber around them can

.
"TC ‘- x o
 " ‘ \‘
 _
,..
l.
I /
III III/IIIIIIIII

point—2 feet.

Has it ever occurred to you to go to
the bowling alley in your neighborhood
for equipment for your community rec-
reation program? You'll be surprised
to learn what a good bowling game can
be devised from discarded duck pins.
some rubber ballsI and a homemade cage.
plus. of course. some native ingenuity!

 

’

—5 feet; width—4 feet 2 inches; height at greatest

The Game

The pins are set up. in a regular bowling tri-

angle, the pin spots being
twelve inches apart. The dis-
tance from the foul line to
the pins may be as short as
desired, depending somewhat
on the age of the group, and
should not be longer than a
regulation bowling alley. Any
small gymnasium or recrea-
tion room where there is

adequate length may be used.
Regular bowling rules and procedure are fol—
lowed, and scores are kept on score sheets which

awere obtained from our local alleys. If the group

I
47/4 .-
I III.
’ n
,t' ,
, I; ” I

I/l/I/I/II

I

4’ I
2"!”

 
   

 
   
 
        

which is bowling cannot find a non-bowler to set
up pins, they themselves set up a certain number

of frames. This proced-
ure has worked very
well, and it is not un-
usual to find youngsters
eager to set up pins for
a short while.

The game is popular
with both boys and girls,
and their interest runs
high when they make
their first strike or spare
or improve their former
score as they increase
their skill.

659

Navajo Weaving

considered for recreation

programs since the needed
equipment may easily be built
with simple tools and is inexpensive when pur-
chased.

The illustration below shows a small Navajo
loom used in teaching the simple techniques and
principles followed by, the Indians of the South-
west. Each student makes a miniature rug. While
most of the Indian looms are larger and con—
structed to fit their rugs, ponchos and blankets,
one frequently sees such small looms in use as
that shown here.

When constructing a loom for a given rug the
Indian first makes a sturdy frame A B C D. (See
illustration on opposite page.) This is well
anchored to the ground or placed against a wall
or other firm object. The warp threads form a
figure eight around the smooth straight beams,
E F. The upper beam is tied to an intermediate
cross bar G, the lower beam is tied to the frame D.
The intermediate bar is lashed to the top frame B
in such a manner that the rug may be lowered
from time to time during
weaving. o

A Navajo rug is
woven from the bottom
up, the Indian sitting
cross—legged on the
ground or with his feet
in a trench. When work
has progressed to a
stage where the weaver
has to reach too high,
the completed section is
folded around the lower
beam F and sewed at
right angles, the upper
beam being lowered by
extending the lashing.

As shown at the right
side of the drawing, the
shed “m” and counter
shed “n” in weaving
indicate the Spaces
through which the weft
thread passes. To draw

660

N AVAJO WEAVING may well be

By EDWARD T. HALL

Founder
Universal School of Handicrafts

This small loom was picked up on a reser-
vation by Mr. Hall's son. an anthropologist

 

every other warp thread forward,
a heald rod “p” is used to which
are 100ped with string the alter-
nate warp threads. The loops of
string are called the leash. The counter shed is
made by raising the shed rod. To beat the weft!
against the finished rug, a batten stick is used.

If you study a Navajo rug you will notice cer—
tain characteristics. When' one color meets an—
other color forming a vertical line, the weft
threads from each side overlap since they pass
around the same warp thread before turning back.
This gives the appearance of saw teeth. When the
pattern forms a diagonal line it is usually formed
by dropping back one warp thread each time the
weft thread is passed forward. This forms a series
of tiny saw tooth steps. You will therefore notice
that the angles of slanting lines in a given rug ar
parallel.

An Indian weaver frequently continues a pat-
tern with a single color that has a slanting edge.
She later carries the next color upward. The
reason for this is that she can sit still for each
color and does not have to continually move bac

and forth.

When Navajo weaving i
mentioned we usuall
think of rugs, thoug
they are a modern de
velopment. Early'Nava
jos wove garments.

A woman’s dress wa
made of two identi
pieces measuring abou
30” x 40”, sewed t
gether at the shoulder
and down the sides t
within a few inches 0
the bottom. Th
vage cords at the edg
were used to form ta
sels at the four corner
The earliest colors wer
black and blue, red b
ing added later.

A man’s shirt w
woven fiat with a slit 
the center like a poncho'.

I

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
 
 

(D
U)
(D
H

   
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   

‘ here were fringes at the edges. The colors were
i ack, blue and red. Early women’s blankets
,. easured 45” x 60”, and men’s 50” X 70”. They
ere woven with horizontal stripes. Ponchos had
ured patterns and were three to four feet wide
. . six feet long.
' Saddle blankets were one of the finest products
0, the looms. Twilled weaves, very soft and line,
t. rmed a square double blanket. A saddle throw
2 easured about 20” x 30”. They were very hand—
me, with tassels at the ends. Tufted saddle
rows were also made and were popular with the
men. Ceremonial blankets were woven of line
‘ms and bore representations of Navajo divinities.
. The technique used in weaving the ceremonial
sh is much more complicated than the Navajo
l ‘nket technique, and is similar to that employed
th the Chinese draw loom and the Opphamta
ave. A rod_ is tied to the warp. The heddle
 rd includes two threads in one loop leaving a
ace of eight threads between each loop. This
, ttern rod is tied in front of the held rod. In
.' nning the patterns they used the heddles as
,l unters and wrapped the weft thread around the
" 0 threads producing a corded effect. The. pat—
n is picked up
ead by thread
tween the cords.

    
    
   
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
    

“It is great fun
I weave! What is
re delightful
,~ an to work at a
nd—loom! The

le boat-shaped
u. uttles of hard
' od—smooth as
'l in—ht the hand '  

u\\ u

' asantly and

 

 

NA VAJO WEA VING I 661

a beautiful fabric builds up, thread by thread,
before one’s eyes.

“We are all weavers by nature! Weaving is an
art as old as the human race, and until a short
hundred years or so ago everyone knew how to
weave as a matter of course. A hand—loom was as
regular a part of household equipment as beds or
a cooking place. It is really amazing that weaving
should have become- almost a lost art in America
in the course of no more than three or four genera—
tions. We should be thankful that it never did
become wholly lost, and we owe a debt of grati-
tude to those who carried the tradition down to
our day. There is a thrill in the thought of the
long, long line of craftsmen by whom our art has
been passed down the generations from hand to
hand'—and from heart to heart—through the cen—
turies. It is a fine thing to have a part in so great
and lovely a craft.” From the Book of the Shuttle—
Craft Guild of Hand—Weavers.

“Only a few of us, perhaps, can ever learn to
paint a picture, but many of us can experience the
same thrill of creative expression in the manipu-
lation of materials. Among the most fascinating
of these processes is weaving.” From First Steps

in Weaving, by Ella V.

Dobbs, published by The
Macmillan Company.

SIDE VlEWS
CROSS SECTIONS

FRONT VIEW

: ‘

  

  FRAME
G

n"
"I E. um: map Inn

'1! l   
ke a charming, l I I
' irring noise as l l . c'
' Y travel back : rial-[ELTIF’

forth between
e stretched

] reads Of the 5:71":   

      
   
   
      
 
 
 

‘arp. The dull _ a; «a: 1—; :

‘ mp of the bat- 5—5:; 119 2—3

l . .. 3- : a“: _

a is a very sat- ’ i ‘3 __ . é; "-

 3 —__' “3%.. F’ i‘

 

 

ctory sound. «r? 3,,
‘3

' _ ._1_ ‘1 LOWER WARPBEM
(1 there is pure y .-.r_~:.aammmmn‘9 ,
‘  all .. *t' «9 FRAME

j :gic in the way
l
l

   

Ice Skating for National Health I

.u a RE WE FULLY aware of And there’s bicycling, too, an ors, advised ice skatingamoj

thehealthful benefits excellent com lem t t other sports for wholeso
derived from ice skat- p en ary Spor fun which will help keep t!

ing ?” asks Kenneth A. Hill, general public lit for its ta.
Recreation Director at the Los Angeles, Cali— of defense and of prosecuting the war.

fornia, Playground and Recreation Department, Increasingly schools are recognizing ice skati
as he urges Americans young and old to “get off as an activity to be encouraged as part of physi
those easy chairs, get out your skates, and skate education. School credits are being issued at ma
for fun and national points where ri
health.”  management he

done the necessal
work to merit 11
desired recogniti

Hundreds of 
skating clubs a1

Mr. Hill enumer-
ates the benehts of
skating as follows:

Ice skating is one
of the most pleas-
ant and beneficial of
sports activities. It
develops the mus-
cles, heart, and lung
power; it improves
the circulation and
stimulates the
glands of the body.

  
    
 
   
  
  
   
   
     
   
  
   
 
   

the employees
the defense ind
tries in Southe
California, and t
movement is gro
ing in momentu

 

‘_ .;.

I .:

It In rea h a — =    ..-,
' C 568  e p Courtesy Rutland, Vermont, School Board In an artlde
petite, and it pro- Roland C. Ge

motes the habit of proper pos- . . u .. . under the title “Cycling a
. Skating IS tops as a wmter sportI . ,,

ture except perhaps m the be" but there are other forms of winter Skatmg’ he Says:

ginner, who may frequently fun making {or happiness and heal”, “Bicycling and skating

assume the supine or prone at- two perfect complementa

titude until he acquires skill!  "   sports. Bicycling is a thr

Ice skating develops the season sport and skating a 0
basic coordination which makes season sport, and both
for efficiency in all other ac- thus be enjoyed the year r03
tivities, both mental and phy- They are also complement
sical. It is a wholesome and in that similar sets of leg in
invigorating activity, and it is cles are used. A sense of
difficult to‘ find any form of ance is the key to cycling
bodily exercise that does so Skating.
much for the maintenance and
promotion of normal health.
Last year it was surpassed
only by swimming in the num-
ber of participants. Alice Mar— ‘
ble, national tennis star and
United States Assistant Di—
rector of Physical Fitness,
speaking recently before a
gathering of Los Angeles play-

ground and recreation (lirect- ' . .. . (Continued on page 690)
Photo by Reynold Carlson
662

“Good cyclists are usu
good skaters. Ice skaters tr
on the bicycle when skatin
not possible, and skaters
a wheel during the summe

“Just as there are differ
kinds of bicycling, such as
ing, trick riding and tan
riding, there are many va
ties of ice skating———speed, pl

 

  
   
   
  
   
  

E RECOGNIZE the fact
that the individual
. born without power
f speech is severely handi—
pped. \Ve do not so
adily realize that a man with normal speech
rgans who does not know how to use them in
kpressing his best thoughts and emotions is also
‘ndicapped. How can such a person get more
‘easure and profit from avocational activities than
quiring skill in self—expression?
It may be objected that such a program is hard
ork, not leisure. But a person who makes that
b'jection does not realize how much pure enjoy-
ent lies ready for discovery in the study and
ractice of the speech arts.
For convenience let us divide the speech arts
to three divisions: oral speech, dramatics, and
itten speech. This division is open to criticism
I. forms a working outline.
In suggesting possible topics for class work in a
creation program, we must note that any speech
dy can be made vocational and laborious, or
ocational and pleasant, depending upon the way
e individuals work. There is a measure of skill
d expertness possible to a person who devotes
«. vocational labor to an activity that is seldom
ssible to an amateur. We are advocating the
- of the speech arts as an avocation, hence we
fa not require the heavy labor nor expect the per-
tion of skill found among professionals.
,' One of the most popular classes among adults is
t of self-expression. The personnel of this
5.. up is made up largely of busy people who, as
.1 mbers of church, lodge, social group, school
eting, find difficulty in expressing their opin-
(. s effectively. Such persons do not want to make
' exhaustive study of public speaking. They want
join a group in which there is opportunity to
k, debate, take part in mock trial, play at par-
' pating in a political convention or legislature,
° 1 thus gain confidence in speaking. These indi-
. uals want to be able to give a
rt after-dinner speech, or
t, 'e an active part in a church
up. Many individuals very
; idly reach these simple goals.
; rdly less recreational value
ound in the social intercourse,

V

  

  
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
 

  

    

 

Skill in some of the speech arts is
an asset which brings both ioy and
usefulness to the one possessing it

"If it gives ioy to an individual
to put colors together and repro-
duce a sunsetl or sounds to make a
song' why is it not a pleasure to
portray one's thoughts and emo-
tions skillfully by the use of words?"

The Speech Arts in a Recreation Program

friendly rivalry, exchange
of opinions, and conscious-
ness of freedom in speak-
ing. No cut and dried pro—
gram is needed for this
group. Readings, skits, short plays, debates, dis-
cussion of important questions and display of spon-
taneous humor will be easily forthcoming once the
ice is broken. A light lunch served pot luck style
at the close of the hour will do much to enhance
the social -value of the class and put the members
at ease.

Speech Defects

The effort to cure speech defects such as stam-
mering, deafness, lisping and other serious speech
weaknesses is more difficult. Such an effort be-
longs, in all probability, in the field of education
proper rather than in recreation. However, the
need is so pathetic in some cases that it hardly
seems worth while to quibble over titles when we
ought to do something for the individuals handi-
capped in this way. Such persons must be grouped
according to affliction and dealt with very tact-
fully. They are extremely sensitive. Sometimes
such ainction is beyond the power of any but the
most skilled specialist to help, but there are many
cases in which a little help may do much to relieve
the situation. No attempt along this line should
be made without careful investigation of the need
and the skill available to supply that need.

The Art of Interesting Conversation

Few among us are interesting conversational-
ists. One individual talks about himself when we
want it quiet so we can talk about ourselves!
Another is silent and responds in monosyllables to
our best efforts to draw him out, while still an-
other harps on one idea until we are almost dis-
tracted. Few can find a conversational meeting
place with a casual acquaintance. Yet there areha
few simple rules which if known and applied will
transform many a bore into a
pleasant companion. These sim-
ple principles can be learned and
practiced during the class period.
During the week each member
can observe and listen in on
conversations which he can

663

664 THE SPEECH ARTS IN A RECREATION PROGRAM

report to class. This combines theory and practice
in a very splendid way.

Debate

A man said to those around him, “The preach—
ers are all hypocrites. They are after the money
and easy life.” A companion asked, “How many
ministers do you know personally?” The man re-
plied, “l know one and he is a rascal.” “But, my
dear man,” answered his companion, “there are
one hundred thousand ministers in the United
States. Assuming that the one is a rascal, do you

think that convicts the entire hundred thousand!”

This man was giving a concrete example of the
shallow, superficial way in which thousands of
people reach their conclusions on political, eco-
nomic, and religious questions. The study and
practice of debate gives even the amateur some
definite methods and principles by use of which to
evaluate the true and false in the propaganda
around him. There is nothing American people
need more as citizens than
ability to analyze and evaluate
the flowing rivers of material
which pour out from the press,
the platform, and the radio.
The uninitiated can hardly
realize the pleasure derived
from ability to select the facts
from the assertions and know why one is reliable
and the other is not.

Storytelling

A storytelling club provides an interesting and
profitable recreation. Stories can be secured from
experience, from literature and from life. It is
necessary that stories for use in this club be worth
while. Just “swapping yarns” will not meet the
purpose of this study. The stories may vary from
light adventure to religion, but anything cheap or
vulgar must be banned. Individuals should be en-
couraged to bring original stories to the club.

The Open Forum

The open forum is gaining a place in America
both as recreation and as an educational activity.
While great skill may be needed to lead a forum
with hundreds in attendance, one with moderate
ability can conduct a forum discussion with a
small group. Since individual self-expression is
the chief goal, the small group gives better oppor—
tunity for expression of individual opinon than a
larger group. Subjects of interest are numerous.

''Too often' in this machine age. one
works at his vocation as a slave driven
to his task, but in his recreation he
works as one travels who hears
happy voices just beyond the horizon
and hastens to partake in their joy."

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
   

One may" choose a local question such as, “Shou
the City of Carlton Build a Swimming Pool?”
a subject of national or international interest,
“The Liquor Problem.” The meeting may
opened by a short speech by some one well i
formed on the subject, or by either a symposi
or panel discussion. Either of these should stir
interest and insure a lively discussion by the me
bers of the audience. The purpOSe of an op
forum is not so much to settle a question, as
induce study and exchange of opinions.

Speech Organization x

Few there are among us able to organize o
thoughts in such a way as to convey them clea
to our fellow men. A study of English fun
mentals including paragraphing, spelling, orga
zation for emphasis and accurate selection

publication at some time in life. The fact t
most of us do not succeed
crashing the editorial gate (1
not alter the fact that we
interested in writing a
speech organization. Writi
for some may be a poem t
lover, a story for the magaz
or an article for the d
paper. W'ith such motivation the study is a p1
ure if the student can feel that he is mal
progress.

America Speaks

America speaks daily through the comics,
movie, through advertising and the radio 5
hour. What language is spoken through t
mediums? Why do we. laugh and cry
“Orphan Annie” or wait anxiously for the
interplanetary adventure with “Buck Rogers”
live-wire group would find search for the an
interesting.

Reading Clubs

Reading clubs are popular among women.
is much to be gained by extending such org
tions to include more of the youth and of in
wealth of materal is easily available ranging
light fiction to philosophy. A reading club
the member an opportunity to analyze a b
article carefully and present his findings be
group. He thus gains confidence in his own

(Continued on page 693)

HAT IS THOUGHT to be
one of the oldest rec-
reation centers for
’nited States service men,
rom the standpoint of con—
inuous operation, is the Ser-
ice Men’s Club at Long
Jeach, California. The pro-.
ram was originated and club
ooms equipped as a com—
1unity service during the first World War. At
he close of the war, when troops were mustered
{1t of service and the only remaining military ac-
ivity in this area was provided by the regular
oast Artillery at Fort MacArthur, seven miles
cross the harbor, the club activities were main—
lined for the benefit of these men and for the
en of the United States Heet
chored here.

The original club was 10—
ted at the seaward end of

    

 

"Inquiries from readers of Recreation
regarding specific features of the club
and its program." states Mr. Rochfordl
"will be answered by the Long Beach Rec-
reation Commission as fully as possible.'I

Mrs.Crutshawl manager of the club since
its establishmentl has had over twenty
years of experience in providing the kind
of program men tar from home appreciate

Where Service Men Were Always Welcome!

By LLOYD A. ROCHFORD
Research and Publications Consultant

Long Beach Recreation Commission

the old Pine Avenue pier
where a large building was
equipped with reading and
writing rooms, lounging
nooks, and a large dance
floor. Reading and writing
materials were provided, and
musical instruments and
games, including pool tables,
' contributed to the recreation
of men on leave. Landing facilities were con-
structed by the city at this pier, and as a result
the club rooms were thefirst place the men came
in contact with on their way to town.

When, in 1929, the people of Long Beach voted
a city charter amendment setting up the Recrea-
tion Commission under a coordinated school and
municipal plan, the Service
Men’s Club activities were
taken over as a part of the

(Continued on page 696)

 

u lt's Your Equipment!"

I had been given a quarter

every time I have said, “It’s your equipment,
fellows!” And as a result of the constant repeti-
tion of this phrase we believe there has been de-
veloped a rather unusual attitude on the part of the

boys of our community.

As each new 7-B group of students arrives at our
school, they are given a talk on the care and use
of the equipment provided. The boys are told that
the equipment is theirs and theirs alone—not theirs
in the sense of individual ownership, but theirs as a
group. It is carefully explained that if any of the
equipment were to be found missing or any of it
damaged, they (meaning all in the group) would
be the losers. It is pointed out that the equipment
does not belong to the coach nor to the school,
but to the boys. The school purchased the equip—
ment with taxpayers’ money and gave it to them.
The manner in which the equipment is used is up
to them. If anyone should take a ball from the
playground, there would" be just one less ball at
the disposal of all the boys of the school, and since
all the equipment is available for all to use after
school, a large number of individuals would be

affected.

Our equipment is always ready for the boys to
use. All any boy needs to do is to ask for any of
the equipment he wishes, and he is provided with
it not only during school hours, but after school
and on Saturdays when a WPA playground leader
is stationed on the grounds. No checking out or
checking in has ever been necessary. The boys
understand it is their equipment, and all they need
do is ask for it when they wish to play.

Several years ago I was
away during the two weeks
of Christmas vacation and
the WPA worker who assists
was left in charge. When I
returned at least. a dozen
boys came to me and said,
“Coach, Johnny Jones has
one of our basketballs.”
(Johnny Jones had attended
our school and was now on
the Class C basketball team
at the local high school.) I

666

I T’s NOT A NEW IDEA, but I wish

By VIRGIL C. STEVENS

In discussing the care of equipmentI the
author has opened up a subiect which is
.becoming increasingly serious. In view of
the shortage of rubber and other material
needed for the manufacture of balls and
similar suppliesI what can recreation de-
partments and other groups conducting
recreation do to conserve athletic sup-
plies and equipment on hand? What sug-
gestions have youI for example, on pro-
longing the life of balls? You may have
some hints which will be invaluable to a
fellow worker. 50 let us hear from you.

   
    
    
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
    
  

asked my assistant what he kn
about the missing ball. He to
me that one of our basketballs proved to be mis
ing when he had collected the equipment at t
end of a day’s play, and the boys and girls h
searched every inch of the playground and the b
could not be found. Several days later John
Jones had appeared on the playground with a .-
of the same make but with his name printed a
one of its sides with indelible pencil. .It was,
said, his ball. The boys on the playground thoug
otherwise and told him so. Johnny stuck to h
guns, however, and continued to insist that it w

his ball.

The first time I saw Johnny after vacation
quietly asked him when he was going to bri
back the ball. At first he attempted to look blan
but after several days and more quiet requests l
bring back the ball he replied, “O. K., I’ll bring
back tomorrow.” It was a hard lesson for John
as his name remained on the ball for several wee
while it was being used on the playground, a
many of the boys knew every detail of the incide

One more example of the value of this idea i;
ownership and consequent responsibility. Eve "
summer we conduct a midget league of softball f
boys under the age of sixteen. During th
games a number of foul balls are hit into nei
boring yards. To replace them, balls are hand
out in a manner which would seem very casual
most communities. Several years ago two softba
were missing. Again no one seemed to kn
where they could have gone. Finally a boy ca
to me and said that Jack Smith, the catcher :
one of the teams, had the balls. Jack had a
reputation of being rat
“sticky fingered.” Nevert
less I began my campaign
slipping up to him and aski
when he thought he might
able to bring back the ba
1 was not at all sure I wo
get results from this meth
but just two days before I
end of the summer seas
while I was conductin
night ball game, Jack ca1 '

(Continued on page 691)

  
  
  
  
     
    
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
    
  

Rural Arkansas

Revives

lts Folkways

The Arkansas Traveler rides

over the trail and plays his
,tune in three hill counties

By JUNE DONAHUE

HE ARKANSAS TRAVELER travels again! Rid-
ing over steep mountain trails, deep in the
Ozarks, he found his way last summer to three
1 counties where he stopped long enough, be-
e traveling on, to speak his piece and play his
1e.

The occasions for his visits were the three huge
k festivals held in Searcy, Benton, and Stone
unties, as part of the state-wide folklore project
veloped by the rural recreation leaders of Ar-
nsas under the guidance of the Agricultural
tension Service. '

Of course the Arkansas Traveler is a legendary
ure, but what is a folk festival without its
ends? And of all the tales told hereabouts, the
'ry of the Traveler is perhaps the favorite and
st widely recounted. It is known in every sec-
11 of the state, though told with interesting and
morous variations by individual storytellers, and
.ering in minor points, depending upon the
ale of each telling.

“Hello, there, my friend!”

“Howdy, stranger!”

“Does this road go to Little Rock?”

in’t never seen hit g0 anywhar yit.”

On goes the story of how the stranger asks the
kansawyer why he doesn’t mend his leaky roof
(’1, with rare wit, the old settler explains that
en it’s raining he can’t repair the roof, and
en it isn’t raining the roof doesn’t leak. The old
untaineer has been sawing away monotonously

“Stranger, I’ve lived hyar all my life and I

 

The Cellar Creek string band led by one-
eyed champion fiddler "Uncle Joe" Morrison
was featured at the Searcy County Festival

at a fiddle tune during the entire conversation and
at last the stranger shows him how to play an end-
ing for the tune. This proof of musicianship wins
over the Arkansawyer who now gives the stranger
the best hospitality his cabin affords.

Thus was born the story and tune of the famed
“Arkansas Traveler,” according to pioneer legend.

Arkansas is rich in tradition. The state is a
veritable gold mine of folklore and folk crafts. On

. the plantations of the delta, in mountain settle—

ments of the Ozarks and Ouachitas, in the rice-
land and vineyard localities, everywhere in Arkan-
sas, families for generations have lived “the good
life” and handed it down to the children of the fol—
lowing generation, just as they received it from
those who passed it on to them. Ancient crafts and
skills, arts and talents have thus been maintained
in the same families for hundreds of years.

Now, for the first time within this present gen—
eration, the folkways of Arkansas are becoming
endangered. Consolidation of schools, better roads,
radio—these things, although blessings of prog—
ress, are the very influences that are leading the
young folks of today away from the folk arts
which are their heritage. And so, the Home
Demonstration Clubs and 4—H Clubs, of Arkan—
sas, assisted by the Farm Bureau, are uniting their
efforts in a concentrated drive to save this rich

667

668 RURAL ARKANSAS RBI/IVES ITS FOLKWAYS

store of folk culture before it is too late. Special
emphasis is being given to folklore in the study
programs of these rural clubs throughout the state.
Club recreation leaders, as well as most of the
members, are becoming enthusiastic folklorists,
collecting old ballads, hymns, games, fiddle tunes
and anecdotes. Community histories are being
written and historic landmarks erected. Antiques,
including all sorts of old musical instruments, are
being discovered and restored in remote mountain
homes. Weavers, spinners, hookers, basket mak-
ers, and woodcarvers are coming into their own,
and their products are finding ready markets.

We have been especially fortunate in the sites
that were available for the first three county-wide
festivals which have already been held. Each had
historic and scenic value in itself and was a “nat—
ural” for staging such an event as a folk festival.
The Searcy County festival was held at a place
known as “The Rock House,” a natural amphi-
theater formed by a huge overhanging cliff on the
picturesque Buffalo River, far back from the main
traveled highways. Since the
days of the earliest settlers,
this “House” has served as a
shelter for livestock and hay
during severe weather. Long
ago it even sheltered people
who had not yet found time to
build their first rude cabins in the Arkansas wil-
derness.

Here, on April 18th, there gathered 2,500 peo-
ple, the largest crowd ever known to have come
together in one spot in that mountainous and
sparsely settled county. It was a sight to behold,
early that morning, to see whole family groups,
most of them on foot, collecting at designated
places along the highways all over the county
where the school buses were to stop to pick up

loads and carry them to the festival and back at_

ten cents a head. All were dressed in their best,for
this was to be a day of reunion for many friends
and relatives who hadn’t seen each other for forty
years. All carried baskets of food, since, accord-
ing to the old custom, there was to be “dinner on

the grounds.” Contrary to unwarranted beliefs'

about the Ozark mountaineers, no “feudin’ ” broke
out during the day, nor was there the least evi-
' dence of liquor in the entire assemblage. St. Louis
and Kansas City newspapers covered this event.
The Benton County Festival was held at Park
Springs, an old resort which the county officials
cleaned up and restored for this occasion. A large

"Come down to Devil's Den or Calico
Rock or some other picturesque spot
where we're planning to hold a folk
festival next summerI and enjoy a
day of fun and fellowship with us."

    
   
    
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

and beautiful spring, backed by. a sheer vin
matted cliff, formed the background for the pr
gram, with the audience sitting upon a hillsi
under the deep shade of a natural woodland. T
2,500 people in attendance came from seve
counties and even states. The program was broa
cast by the Siloam Springs radio station, KUO
during part of the day.
In the latter part of August, the people of Sto
County celebrated their day of merrymaking at t
foot of Mitchell’s Bluff near Blanchard Sprin
back in the' cool depths of the Ozark Natio
Forest. A county—wide holiday was declared a
from all over nothern Arkansas and southern M'
souri, and in every sort of conveyance, the peo
came, until the Forest Service boys who to
charge of registration reported 3,000 individu
by actual count. These included several we
known authors and a camera man from a big 116V
reel company. Folks from the longest distan
came over the night before and camped at
spring, in order to be there bright and early
the next day’s festivities. ‘
old—time barbecue was prepar
in a pit under the cliff duri
the night, and a great qu
tity of delicious meat V
ready to serve at noon on f
#tival day.
All the festivals have featured antique exhibi
handcraft fairs, and presentations of the pagea
“My Little Cabin Home.” This pageant is mer
an outline, prepared by the Extension Service
a suggestion, and adapted by the local counties
their own available talent and history. The fe
val committee, in building up the acts of the p I
eant, first must visit many homes and commu l
ties where “auditions” are held and the most r 
resentative numbers selected for presentation
the county festival. An effort is made to h
every settlement represented by some perform a,
in the final program that is developed. Thro
these preliminary community tryouts, repetitio
eliminated and a great deal of interesting f
talent and folklore is unearthed. I
When actual tunes, games, and dances h it
been selected, the committee does a great deal
research on the backgrounds of each number to
used on the program and all possible informat
about the performers and their particular se
tions are incorporated into the souvenir progr
which makes the printed program educational f

.3.
I
l
g
I
O
. . . Q
a literary standpomt. These souvenlr progr

RURAL ARKANSAS REVIVES ITS FOLKWAYS 669

are patterned somewhat- after the printed pro-
. grams of the National Folk Festival, in which
. every act is given an interesting explanation.

Committees which serve are: central committee
on arrangements, which holds auditions and builds
the final program; stage and grounds committee,

I which sees to seating and stage arrangements,
' public address system, and the only man-made
“prop” used, a log cabin “front”; publicity com-
' mittee, usually composed of the editors in the
county; hOSpitality committee, in charge of regis-
tration, parking, greeting, and comfort; foods
' committee, in charge of food and drink stands or
i barbecue; handcraft fair committee, in charge of
constructing arbor~ booths and assigning space to
artists, craftsmen, and exhibitors; exhibits com-

I
o‘lery of old photographs.

Individuals who have important jobs on festival
day are: the master of ceremonies, who does all the
announcing and keeps the program moving; the
song leader, and the contest chairman who is in
charge of the noon time contests, signing in the
| entries, obtaining judges, and awarding the prizes.

There is no general rehearsal. It is desirable
that the central committee be composed of com-
munity chairmen, who are responsible for getting
the acts selected from their particular communi-
ties in shape for the public performance.

The pageant outline follows :

My Little Cabin Home

Folkways Pageant Showing
Ozark Arts. of Living

10 200 A. M.

Prelude—“Arkansas Traveler"
——Combined string bands of
entire county.

Special numbers by each band.

Opening remarks, purpose of
festival, introductions, etc.—
Presiding Otiicer.

Community Singing—
“America.”
“Arkansas”—led by presi-
dent of local Singing Con-
vention.

Keynote Talk—“Folk Arts in

American Democracy”—by
a good speaker.

Theme song of pageant—“Lit-
tle Old Log Cabin in the
Lane”—Chorus.

mittee, in charge of antique display, including gal-.

Episode |-_—Our Old Country Heritage

A. Court Dance, “Country Gardens” by a 4—H Club,
dressed to represent Lords and Ladies of Early
England.

B. Traditional ballads (English, Irish, Scotch, \Velsh).

c. English Peasant Dances, “Looby Loo”
“Green Sleeves”—by 4-H Club dressed as English
peasants.

D. Other nationality groups in the county put 011 char-
acteristic acts in native tongue and costume.

Episode II—Early Days in (Name) County

A. Interview and pay tribute to oldest person in county.

B. Legends of Early Days, dramatized (include “Ar—
kansas Traveler”).

c. Old remedies and superstitions (read or dramatized).

Episode III—Early Day Musical Instruments

A. Dulcimer 5010

B. Old-type accordion
C. Musical saw .

n. Jews harp

E. Gourd banjo

F._ Hurdy-gurdy

G. Others

Episode IV—Family Fun

A. Group of relatives, accustomed to singing, playing,
or having some other form of old-time fun together
put on a “family act.”

(Continued on page 692)

A part of the crowd of 3.000 comfortably

seated under a huge brush arbor built espe-
cially tor the Stone County Folk Festival

 

What They Say About Recreation

mary aim of education. Education which
does not prepare for this part of life is in—
complete, for the master of the art of living effec-

tively combines work and play, labor and leisure.”
—From An Educational Program for the Youth

of New York State.

"WORTHY USE OF LEISURE is certainly a pri—

“There can be no victory without the satisfac-
tions of the spirit.” — Grove Patterson in Think,

November 1941.

“Some see farther than the means of living.
They recognize that man is not really human un—
less he takes some part in creating and enjoying
the beauty of life, and in understanding the world
of which he is a part. Here is the basis of the
culture that creates a full life.”—Arthur H. C omp-
ton in Think, November 1941.

“The community school should be so planned
and have such an influence on community growth
and living that it continuously plays a part in the
lives of all adults as well as youth.”~———Engelhardt
and E ugelhard t in Planning the Community School.

“Recreation is not just diversion to be turned
away from for more important things. Recreation
is an important thing. . . . We must never look
upon recreation as a means toward body and char—
acter building. \Ve must look upon it as a gener-
ous opportunity for the re-creation and more com-
plete development of all of our faculties.”——From
Parish Service Bulletin, Catholic Youth Organi-
zation.

“To get people in all walks of life, with varied
ideas, ideals, and objectives, to face a recreation
problem in a democratic fashion is an increasingly
important task. Integrated local community groups
working cooperatively, harmoniously, and effec-
tively for community improvement are essential to
the national defense.” —- From Seventh Annual
Report, Chicago Recreation Commission.

“The two great and universal preparations for
an age of leisure are many friends and a love of
the open air. These two condition all other forms
of recreation and they do not decrease with the
years.”——Henr_v S. Curtis, PhD.

670

“The recognition of individual worth and dignity
is the keynote of all good educational practice. It
is also a chief tenet of all great religions, a basic
assumption of democratic theory, and the point at
which the American way of life differs most
sharply from the totalitarian.”—From Education
and the Morale of a Free People.

“I have always been deeply interested in pro-
grams designed to provide recreational outlets for
the youth of this country, for I feel that they can
be of great assistance in preventing juvenile de-
linquency.”—f. Edgar H oover.

“There is a winning music in the world and it
persists through and abOve all fears, whether of
hard times or of war’s destructivehforce. It is the
music of the common people, making homes, cre-
ating citizens, producing by their toil the world we
live in.”—— From Brightmoor A Community in
Action.

 

“Remember that good times in good company
help build high morale. Make sure your town has
places where young people, girls, boys, defense
workers, soldiers, sailors, may find fun, enjoyment
and companionship. These are great human
needs.” From Social Hygiene News.

“Mobilization for the defense of democracy in
the face of the greatest danger which has ever
threatened freedom must be the mobilization of
every possibility the people have, not to defend
themselves, not to resist, but to build higher and

- to build stronger the house of freedom on this

ground, to create in America the thing so many
men have dreamed of and have never seen -——de-
mocracy itself—democracy in action.”——~—Archibald

M acL eish.

“We need national character as well as national
de'fense.”——Rev. Henry Darlington.

“Children in a democracy have a right to recre-
ation, to build the sense of joy in living which
gives a tremendous backlog to meet the things
everyone has to meet as he goes through life.”—
Eleanor Roosevelt.

 

A Clubhouse

for

Caddies

Caddies in New Orleans

may boast with pride of
their new headquarters
and recreation building
with its equipment for
comfort and enioyment

OLFDOM’S No. I problem of
keeping caddies out of mis-
chief while awaiting call

for duty has been solved impres-
sively at City Park, New Orleans, with the con-
struction of a new caddie house by the Work
Projects Administration.

Adequate facilities for occupying the leisure
time of the caddie was the chief consideration
which went into the planning of the attractive
structure which serves as a general headquarters
and recreation center. But the mere construction
of the building was not all. Steps have been taken
to provide sufficient recreation leaders to direct
outdoor games such as shuffleboard and horseshoe
pitching, and indoor activities such as Chinese
checkers and reading. .

City Park’s golf course and buildings are among
the finest in the South. The caddie house adds to
the attractiveness of the unit and fits appropri-
ately into the Colonial style of architecture fol-
lowed in the earlier construction of the Golf Club
House, also a WPA project.

Constructed of brick, the caddie house consists
of one large room, approximately 24 by 46 feet,
overlooking the beautiful eighteen-hole golf course.
It accommodates three hundred boys and is
equipped with a sound system for the starters’ and
cashiers’ desks so that the caddie master can be
notified, without loss of time, which caddie is
needed.

“In visiting more than fifteen caddie houses in
scattered sections of the country,” said Marcel G.

 

Sports reviews and magazines are available.
and a bulletin board gives last minute golf-
ing news from all parts of the country. An
outdoor recreation area is being developed.

Montreuil, superintendent of City Park, “I dis—
covered that most of them were defaced by the
caddies for the simple reason that they don’t know
what to do with themselves between calls. Con-

sequently, to pass the time, they take to whittling

and cut window frames, benches, desks and any—
thing they can get their hands on.

“If the caddie has a resting place he can re—
fresh himself and ready himself for another trip.
around the course. After walking five and a half
miles to cover the usual eighteen-hole course and!
carrying a golf bag weighing anywhere from
twenty to fifty pounds, he definitely needs rest.”

An important feature of the caddie house is the-
large open fireplace where the caddie can warm.

himself and dry his clothes in inclement weather.

A nine-hole putting green was constructed on
one side of the building so that the caddie, himself
a potential golfer, may learn the game of golf and:
the uses of the different irons. This is a big help to.
the out—of—town players who are not familiar witlh
a level course.

(Continued on page 696)
671.

A Multiple-Use Roller Skating Rink

OLLER SKATING has always
been popular in Norfolk,
Virginia, but for a long time

it presented a serious problem to
recreation leaders. Boys and girls with no place
to skate had resorted to the streets._ Then last year
Park Supervisor Fred Heutte and the writer de-
vised a roller skating rink which could be adapted
to multiple use for the outdoor playground sea-
son. Norfolk had already tried rectangular skat-
ing areas and found them fairly satisfactory, but
this new area had to provide maximum utility and
at the same time be inexpensive. Eventually the
following plan evolved.

The area shown in the diagram \vas laid out
and graded to a depth,of four inches below the
surrounding turf. No base was necessary. The
problem of constructing a foundation below the
frost line was eliminated because of favorable cli-

matic conditions.

Forms were constructed so that one—quarter of
the track could be poured at a time. A
1-2-4 mix was used and the surface
was hand trowelled for smoothness.
One hundred-and twenty cubic yards
of concrete were required for the area,
and the entire construction job in-
cluding grading, materials, and cement
finishing cost $1,400.

Preliminary plans called for banking
both ends of the track. A professional
roller skating rink operator, however,
warned that this would encourage
skaters to race. To prevent this the
ends were graded the same as the sides
of the track—a pitch of two inches
from the outside edge towards the cen-
ter. The whole area was graded four
inches end to end to insure adequate
surface drainage. Adjacent to the low
point of the track a drain was con-
structed to remove excess surface water,
but up to the present time the turf in
the center has absorbed all of the drain-
age from the sides.

For the summer playground season
game courts are painted on the tracks
with traffic paint. (See diagram.)

672

By FRED C. STEWART

Superintendent of Recreation
Norfolk. Virginia

Shuffleboard and paddle tennis
courts are marked out on the side
tracks with portable backstops
set up between them. The pad-
dle tennis backstops are made by cutting a dis-
carded tennis net in two and lacing the halves to-
gether one above the other as shown in the dia-
gram. This improvised net is then tied to portable
backstOp poles which are inserted into pipes coun-
tersunk in the ground on each side of the track.
The shuffleboard courts are cut off from one an—
other by two-by-fours laid across the track. These
are attached to pipe elbows which have been
inserted into the ground.

A hop scotch area and giant checker board are
painted at the two ends of the track and one of
the end areas is used for dancing at night. Benches
have been installed six feet from the track so that
they will not constitute a hazard for children who
may run off the sides. Trees and shrubs have been
planted to give the new area a “finished” appear-

  1" PIPE mr CONCRETE

pan/z. 0F ancxsrop c3 CENTER msr
(cmnm mrr 3' HIGH)

 

._——

Norfolk's multiple-use
play area provides not
only a roller skating
rink' but courts for

shufHeboard and pad-

dle tennisl an area for
hopsco’rchI and a giant
checker board. Space
at one end provides
for night dances.

ance and to provide shade for spectators watching
the play.

The need for a roller skating rink in Norfolk
has resulted in this year-round play area which is
unique in multiple-use possibilities. The adapta-
tion of discarded tennis nets for improvised back-
stops demonstrates the keen resourcefulness in

 

MULTIPLE USE OF RECREATION AREA

PADDLE TENNIS SHUFFLEBOARD
DANCING BOX HOCKEY
ROLLER SKATING BOWLING

19 10° 5' 3‘ o' 5' 5' (on 20'
SCALE

 

planning. It is a comparatively simple matter to
provide night lighting for a facility of this type
and thus increase its utility.

Built on the same principle, a slightly wider
track would offer additional program possibilities.
More space could be made available for off-side
play on the courts and for such games as volley-
ball, badminton, deck tennis, and even basketball

with portable equipment. The present
layout might be adapted to allow more

space between paddle tennis courts for
back-end play.-——The Editor

The laying out of play areas in a way
which will make them usable for a
number of different activities in various '
seasons is a subject which is arousing
much interest. The steps which the
New York City Park Department has
taken to make such use of its facilities
are described in an article in the April,
1939, issue of RECREATION under the
title, “The Multiple Use of Recreation
Facilities,” by James V. Mulholland.
Here wading pools have, been designed
so that they may be used for such
group games as basketball and volley-
ball, as well as for ice skating in win-
ter. Swimming pools, too, are made
to serve as playing areas, during the
spring and fall, for handball, basket:
ball, volleyball and paddle tennis.
Equipment, which is portable, is re-
moved from the pools during the
summer to make way for swimming.

673

u Fitness for Victory"

HE NATIONAL recreation

movement is making a

great contribution'to
America through many ser-
vices. Not the least of these
is the emphasis on physical
fitness, which is a by-product
of the games, athletics, hiking, and other physical
activities promoted by recreation departments and
private groups.

It has seemed to the National Recreation Asso—
ciation that a pictorial presentation of what is be-
ing done to promote fitness among our citizenry
would be exceedingly valuable at just this time.
And so the Association has prepared a pamphlet
under the title, “Fitness for Victory,” which it is
hoped will help local groups in calling attention to
the importance of keeping {it and in making the
citizens of the communities
throughout America more
aware of what local recrea-
tion departments have to
offer their cities in the pres-
ent emergency.

Printed in gay colors and
profusely illustrated with pic-
tures showing the various
types.of summer and winter
sports available, the pamphlet appeals to all Ameri-
cans to keep fit. The photographs included show
defense workers in three shifts who are finding
lighted play areas an oasis of health and recrea-
tion, as well as men and women, boys and girls
enjoying every type of sport. Captions state:
“Skill at sports and games helps the worker keep
the assembly line at top speed.”

In addition to the photographs, the booklet con-
tains a list of the cities and towns in all states
which have established rec-
reation facilities and are
now ready to serve the citi-
zens of their country.

A limited number of sam-
ple copies have been made
available by a contributor
who has hoped that his gift
might result in the use of a
much larger number of
copies by local recreation

674

Announcing a pictorial pamphlet
which has been prepared to help
American communities in their
campaigns for physical fitness

"America has need of every citizen to
fight her battles at home. in the fac-
tory. in the office. and in the armed
forces. To help win victory. every one
of us must be at his best physically.
Our morale must be high. Physical fit-
ness is within the reach of practically
everyone."—-—From Fitness for Victory.

''We are going to win the war and we are
going to win the peace that follows. And
in the dark hours of this day—and through
the dark days that may be yet to come—
we will know that the vast maiority of the
members of the human race are on our side.
Many of them are fighting with us. All of
them are praying for us. For. in repre-
senting our cause. we represent theirs as

well—-our hope and their hope for liberty
under God." —Ftanklin D. Roosevelt.

departments and similar
groups. If you find that
copies of this booklet will
help you in your local Et-
ness campaign, the Associa-
tion will be glad to supply
them in quantity at the
actual cost of printing plus carrying charges. If
the demand for copies warrants a second edition,
the cost of additional copies will be as follows:
1-24 . . . . . .15 cents each plus carrying charges
25-99 . . . . . . 12% cents each plus carrying charges
100 or over. . . IO cents each plus carrying charges

It has been suggested that it may serve to
strengthen (local support of your program if you
send a copy of this booklet to a carefully selected
list of individuals who help build public opinion
in your city. Such a list might include members
of the Board of Estimate,
City Council, luncheon clubs,
patriotic organizations, the
Chamber of Commerce, Par-
ent-Teacher Associations,
women’s clubs, and other
civic and religious groups.
In connection with your use
of the booklet you may want
to insert a printed or mimeo-
graphed statement about your local activities as a
part of the national fitness campaign which is
being carried on by recreation departments
throughout the country.

“Health should be a positive thing. It should
go beyond the mere absence of illness. It should
be a realization of the fullest possibilities of the
individual. In this phase especially recreation plays
a vital part. This is partly the recreation of
wholesome physical exer—
cise, of games, sports, and
play. It also includes men-
tal and social recreation,
companionship, and a chance
for young people to meet
and mingle with other
young people in a whole-
some environment.”—From
the American Youth Com-
vizission.

 

What Kansas Is Doing in Defense Recreation

GRARIAN KANSAS has moved
A quickly and efficiently to
meet the special recrea-
tion problems brought about
by Uncle Sam’s expanding defense program. For
several months now splendid recreation centers in
the military post towns of Junction City, Manhat-
tan, and Leavenworth have been established to
serve both soldier and civilian. A year and a half
ago none of these cities had even envisioned a
program of this type.

Existing community recreation programs in
Kansas City and Wichita are being expanded to
meet special demands created by large increases in
population resulting from defense industry “booms”
'11 those communities. Parsons, Baxter Springs,
1‘ 11d Pittsburg are planning community leisure-time
programs in anticipation of needs created by new
rdnance plants near-by.

Junction City Serves Fort Riley

‘ Junction City, a mushrooming town of 11,000
‘ opulation nestling at the west gates of Fort Riley,

. . r ‘ . . V , 5',
’ 4'?
w .

. I r

n
'\

A”
J

 

 

By LESTER B. KAPPELMAN
Assistant State Supervisor

WPA Recreation

world’s largest cavalry school
and at present home of the
army’s cavalry replacement
training center, experienced
problems in the \Vorld War which its alert citi-
zenry did not readily forget. When the impact of
the present influx of troops hit, civic leaders acted
speedily. A local defense council and recreation
sub—committee sprang into being, and technicians
from the army’s morale department and Kansas
VVPA recreation project were called in to assist
with the planning. City fathers turned over the
90’x90’ dining room on the first floor of the
beautiful new $285,000 community building and
completely furnished it with VVPA-made specially
designed oak furniture upholstered in rose-hued
leather.‘ There are hundreds of pieces, including
inlaid game tables, fluorescent-lighted writing
desks, reading lamps, magazine racks, library
tables, bookcases, divans, occasional and straight-
backed upholstered chairs, which transform the
room into a huge comfortable and homelike living
room.

675

676 WHAT KANSAS IS DOING IN DEFENSE RECREATION

When formal application by the defense council
was made, VVPA assigned Frank D. Gage, recrea-
tion director and musician, to head up the profes-
sional staff of sixteen recreation leaders who con-
duct the community program. Purposer the rec-
reation committee chose to name its brainchild the
“social Center,” in order that equal emphasis
might be placed on the participation of both civil-
ians and soldiers without specific mention of either.
Soldiers delight in coming to the social center
where they may sing, play, browse, write letters,
or recline in an informal homelike atmosphere
with new—found civilian friends. It is not uncom-
mon to see high school younster and soldier vying
mightily over a game of table'tennis, or a white-
haired grandmother earnestly singing at the piano
side by side with the man in uniform. During a
representative five—hour period on a recent Satur-
day in the center, one letter was left to be mailed
every two minutes—_indica-
tive that soldiers write often
to father, mother, wife,
sweetheart, and friend, when
they are provided with ex-
cellent writing facilities.

Saturdays and Sundays
more than 2,000 soldiers use
the facilities of “Junc-
town’s” social center, and
there are between 500 and
600 nightly visitors in ad—
dition during the week. Be-
cause of the program’s growth it has become nec—
essary to expand the facilities, and space is being
provided in adjacent rooms for dancing, hand—
crafts, and other allied activities. On the second
floor of the building is a spacious combination
ballroom-gymnasium in which can be handled as
many as 1,200 dancing couples. Well-known
bands from over the whole country have been
booked at popular prices regularly during the fall
and winter season, and it is a rare occasion when
the hall is not crammed to capacity.

Junction City’s recreation program is not wholly
confined to the community building. There is a
fine park system for outside activities, including a
brand new municipal swimming pool which has
proved of great popularity during the summer
season. Various churches of the town present
“social evenings” for the men in uniform on dif-
ferent nights of the week, and have cooperated to
provide refreshments for the participants at the
downtown social center.

The defense recreation program in Kansas
has some especially interesting features:
Two play centers for preschool children
established at Leavenworth are very popu-
lar with children of army men. Commu-
nity nights are occasionally staged at the
Leavenworth military prison. An apprecia-
ted innovation in the Kansas City program
is a bookmobile carrying several hundred
popular books which stops periodically at
the Army and Navy air bases where service
men can readily check out the volumes.

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   

With its acute'housing conditions, Junction Cit '
has been less fortunate in its attempts thus far t
find indoor quarters for the many colored troop
who frequent that community. The colored WP ‘
supervisor in charge has conducted outdoor activi
ties during the summer and cooperated wit
churches in producing evening programs of socia
recreation. Several soldier dances have been hel
in the spacious community auditorium. Expecte
government approval for construction of a new
colored recreation center should provide within .
few months adequate opportunities for leisure—tim
activities.

A USO Club operated by the Jewish Welfar
Board has been opened recently on the second floo
of a midtown store building to assist in providin
adequate recreation opportunities for the numerou
soldiers in Junction City. A kosher snack bar is .
feature added to meet a special need for the larg
numbers of Jewish youth
stationed in Fort Riley.

Manhattan ' Establishes
Soldier Centers

Junction City’s early suc
cesses in meeting its soldie
problems last spring set .
pattern for the thriving c0
lege town of Manhatta1
twenty miles distant acros
the expansive reservatio
Owing to the fact that Ma
hattan is more than twel
miles from Camp Funston, easternmost cantomne
on the Fort Riley reservation, the city had time I
act more slowly in making ready its program f
the 10,000 men in the Second Cavalry Divisio
The mayor’s defense coordinating committee ma
available a building erected for soldier recreati
during the World War and since used as a c01
munity meeting house. It is a large two-story buil
ing with kitchen, showers, and game rooms on t
ground floor, and a social hall with stage on' t
second. There is adequate office Space on the m
floor and on the balcony overlooking. Extensi
renovation of the facility as planned by the c
will add greatly to its usability.

Manhattan, like Junction City, equipped its ce
ter with special design, low cost furniture made
WPA, adding to it a quantity of furnishii
already on hand, and then invited both the U
and VVPA recreation programs to provide a c
bined staff. In the beginning, due, to the sma
number of soldiers who were visiting Manhat

l

WHAT KANSAS IS DOING IN DEFENSE RECREATION 077

because of its dis—

tance from the
‘Fort, the staff pur-
sued a different
course in gaining
participation. It
was quite appar-
ent that special
programs and
events would be
needed to focus
attention of sol-
diers on the cen-
ter. Most popular
with modern army
youth, apparently,
, are music and
dancing, and it is
to this co-recrea-
tional desire that
Manhattanites
have catered.

A strong Junior
Hostess Club of several hundred unmarried young
women between the ages of eighteen and thirty
years was formed, and through the efforts of this
group of girls dancing partners in adequate num-
bers are provided each evening for soldiers who
come to the center. Girls who attend must present
their Junior Hostess cards to the chaperones of
the Senior Hostess group upon arrival. Those
whose deportment is considered undesirable may
have their membership cards revoked upon call.
Music is furnished by the “juke” box or small
informal dance orchestras made up spontaneously
of men who attend the center. Admittance at all
times is free. Often during the latter part of a
month, when nickels are few and far between,
dancing is entirely carried on to the accompani-
ment of the piano, around which is invariably
gathered a group of those who enjoy singing the
popular music.

On nights when the dances are big, accompanist
and singers retire to the large lounge and game
room downstairs where, undisturbed, they can
lift their voices to the lilting strains of “Carry Me
Back to Old V irginny,” “I’ve Been Working on
the Railroad,” the martial air of “The Caissons
Go Rolling Along,” or the rich sentimental melody
of “My Buddy,” and many other songs popular
with the service men.

Dancing lessons, bridge lessons, community
sings, skating parties, checker tournaments, picnic

 

outings, and many other varied events keep the
atmoSphere alive around the Manhattan center.
Sunday evening usually brings a talent Show or an
instrumental music hour in addition to the regular
informal program. Talented soldier artists from
the Post, as well as townspeople and college at-
taches, have contributed liberally to these per-
formances,

Swimming tickets to the municipal pool have
been sold to soldiers at the recreation center at
reduced rates. A complete information service for
soldiers and their families is being set up through
a battery of volunteer committees. Information
on eating places, rooming houses, addresses of
officers located in Manhattan, is being compiled
for the convenience of military people. Churches
are cooperating in keeping cookie jars filled, and
various civic organizations are taking turns in
supplying free refreshments for the huge Satur-
day night crowds. The VVPA library project and
the city library have made available several hun-
dred books of the latest and most popular reading
materials. Donations of countless magazines,
sheet music, and newspapers have been accepted
from residents of the community. One of the
building’s four pianos was a contribution from a
retired army colonel and his wife.

At Manhattan, in anticipation of a new already
approved building to be constructed under the
federal emergency appropriation, a temporary

678 WHAT KANSAS IS DOING IN DEFENSE RECREATION

center has been secured from the board of educa—
tion for colored troops on leave from Fort Riley.
A comfortable lounge, books, magazines, game
tables, piano, and a small space for informal danc-
ing is available. Next door, the Douglas school
auditorium provides housing for the larger shows
and entertainments. Adacent is the municipal pool
for colored people, and admission prices are nominal.
Outside the building is the school playground with
courts of horseshoes, badminton, croquet, and shuf-
fleboard which insures a well'balanced recreation
program. Churches have also been active in pro—
viding recreational activities for colored soldiers.

Volunteers from other communities near Fort
Riley have helped materially by securing girls for
both colored and white dances held each week in
the army service clubs on the post. Colored com-
mittees have been organized in cities almost half—
way across the state to provide dancing partners
at the colored dances.

The Soldier-Civilian Program in Leavenworth

Although not pressed with the urgent problems
of the cities adjacent to more heavily populated
military establishments, the city of Leavenworth
is doing everything possible to make off-hours
pleasant for visiting soldiers from its namesake,
Fort Leavenworth. A beautifully decorated social

recreation center has been established in the city

hall auditorium with a professional WPA director
and staff in charge.

A bond issue was voted to provide funds for
complete renovation of the center and for the cost
of furniture especially designed to harmonize with
the color scheme of the room. A large assortment
of divans and chairs, game and reading tables,
writing desks, Hoor lamps, smoke stands, and a
beautiful cabinet radio give the place a comfort—
able and homelike atmosphere. WPA, through its
art project, has provided a permanent art exhibit.
Through its music project, WPA has continued
to supply dance orchestras for the free Thursday
night dances given for the troops from the induction
center. A Junior Hostess club of more than 200
recommended Leavenworth girls provide dancing
partners for the men in uniform. Many children
and townspeople enjoy the recreational facilities
with the soldiers in Leavenworth.

George Stapleton, executive director, in addi—
tion to his work at the center in the city building,
has conducted a varied program of games, sports,
crafts, and community nights in the parks and
swimming pools of the community. Once each

week the project presents a music and dramatic
show for newly inducted men in the Post recrea-
tion center or on its accompanying outdoor stage.
The director has been charged with planning and
conducting a program of physical activities for the
several hundred “detainees” in the Fort Leaven-
worth disciplinary barracks.

Colored troops were by no means forgotten in_
recreational planning. Not far from the auditorium
in Leavenworth, an unusually attractive center for
Negroes has been established by the city. On the
Post proper what, less than a year ago, was an old
stable is now a beautiful recreation center for the
use of the colored detachment. Once each week
the colored WPA band from Kansas City, Kan-
sas, is brought in to play for a dance in the social
hall. Musical shows are also frequently arranged.
Facilities include game room, a snack shOp and
canteen, bowling alleys, gymnasium, and furnish—
ings for social recreation.

Fairfax Air Base in Kansas City

In order to supply adequate recreational op—
portunities for the several hundred men at the
naval reserve air base in Kansas City, Kansas, the
WPA Recreation Department has c00perated with
naval officers in organizing a program of sports
and games and furnishing leaders to conduct the
activities. Successful dances have been held in the
Soldier-Sailors Memorial building through co-
operation with women of the Service League.

Both Leavenworth and Junction City have taken
advantage of a new Kansas enabling act permit-
ting local sub—divisions to levy _up to one mill for
recreation in cities of counties adjacent to military
reservations. There is indication that this legisla-
tion will be the forerunner of permanent city de—
partments in these two communities.

Activities in other Kansas cities might be men—
tioned. The December I 5th Recreation Bulletin
issued by the Recreation Section, Office of De-
fense Health and Welfare Services, FSA, tells of
activities in Wichita. Here the local Park Depart-
ment, in cooperation with the recreation staff of
W PA, has in operation eight neighborhood cen—
ters and school buildings which are open on a
four-night—a—week basis. These projects are serv—
ing many defense workers in the neighborhood.
The craft work is especialy popular, and the recre—
ation directors at the plants are reported to fill up
all the groups as they are organized.

 

It We Knew the Same Songs

miliar with a fair num—
ber of the same songs,
knowing their words and
tunes by heart, there could
be much more social sing-
ing among us that is
thoroughly enjoyable and
inspiring. We could much
more readily then become in truth a singing peo—
ple with all that this can mean in developing a
‘ basic and happy unity and strength of spirit among
us in communities throughout the country. This
business of having to have books, leaHets, lantern
slides or some other reading device before we can
sing is often a deterrent, and it tends always to
make for less hearty, less thoroughgoing and less
enjoyable singing than is possible when a song is
sung freely from memory by a whole assemblage.
It may be that the mere announcement by news-
papers, radio or a bulletin, and by school, recrea-
tion center and community music leaders, of a list
of songs chosen as being well suited to general
familiarity and use would in itself be likely to
arouse greater interest in having such community
singing.

IF ALL OF US were fa-

Songs to Sing

With these ideas in mind, we suggest the fol—
lowing songs for such a list; and we suggest also
that the promotion of its purpose and use be
looked upon as a local affair of the community’s
schools, recreation centers, civic organizations and
other interested agencies, and that therefore it be
subject to some modifications, if desired, to fit it
as well as possible to the local interests as well as
national ones:

Of Patriotic Songs:
I. The S tar—S pangled Banner (Two verses)
2. America (First and last verses)
3. America, the Beautiful (All four verses)

4. A state or community song (For example,
Carry ll/Ie Back to Old Virginity for that
state; Illinois for that state, and so on)

Of Other Songs:

5. The Old Folks at Home (Two verses)
The best known, and, for many people, the

Prepared by AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG

"Let us make these songs really our ownI
singing them with full enjoyment and mean-
ing on many a suitable occasion that is now
overlooked or -is not used because we do
not know very well
variety of songs we could all sing together."

a fair

\1

IO.

most beautiful of the songs
of our most beloved com-
poser.
6. Dixie (Two verses)
This most animated
of our songs is usually and
rightly regarded as being
a patriotic song, but we
present it here for its origi-
nal character as a fun-song of the American
“minstrel show,” for its rollicking good humor
and its strong individuality. It is intensely
American and its belongs to all of us.

number and

. Home on the Range (Two verses, the second

one commencing “How often at night . . .”)

A song associated everywhere with the
hardy romance of the cowboy’s trade and of

the great open ranges of the West and South-
west.

. A sea chantey. Cape Cod Chantey or the

Boston Come—All-Ye for New England; Rio
Grande, pronounced by the sailors “Rye—o—
Grand,” for the Southwest; Shenandoah, per-
haps, for Virginia and the Missouri River
country; Sacramento for California.

Between the War of 1812 and the incursion
of steam-driven vessels, American craftsmen
produced the best sailing ships in the world,
which sailed to all the ports of the world to
these and other lusty songs of the hauling
sailormen. (See Colcord’s annotated collection
of “Songs of the American Sailormen” en-

titled “Roll and Go.”)

. I ’ve Been li’orkin’ on the Railroad

Most closely associated with the amazing
expansion of our country is the building of
the railroads. Let this song, so much better
known than any other railroaders’ songs,
stand at least in this first list, for the great
“westering urge” that enlisted and followed
the work of the railroad builders. ‘

Aunt Dinah’s Quilting. Party (First and last
verses)

An old college song especially liked, as is
No. 9, by spontaneous vocal harmonizers. It
can stand also for the very neighborly party in
which friends and neighbors gathered to join

679

680 IF WE KNEW THE SAME SONGS

the hostess in making a beautiful bed—cover
for her home. There was jollity also, espe-
cially after the men-folk arrived, at dinner and
at games, and dancing through the evening.
Quilting parties have continued to flourish in
some rural places, and a revival of the craft of
quilting in some recreation centers may bring
the parties back again even to some city places.

11. Down in the Valley (Three verses)

Surely everyone should know at least one of
the hundreds of fine folk songs of the Appala—
chian folk, the direct descendants of Anglo-
Celtic first settlers of the eastern part of our
country. This is one of their later folk songs,
not so individual nor so unusually beautiful
as many others are, but very likeable, as is
proved by the wide familiarity it has already
won

12. A Negro spiritual. Which of the many shall it
be? S 20ng Low, Sweet Chariot is best known,
and Nobody Knows the Trouble, I See is
almost as well known and is one of the most
beautiful. Yet we would choose, where only
one is to be chosen, I Want to Be Ready (“to
walk in Jerusalem just like John”). It is so

. strongly animated with a most engaging
rhythm and shape of tune, and also with a for-
ward vision that might be interpreted as being
of a “promised land,” a better way of life,
right here on earth. Compare the closing lines

of William Blake’s poem, “Jerusalem”:
“I will not cease from mental fight,

Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,
Till we have built Jerusalem
In England’s green'and pleasant land !”

13-. Cielito Lindo
For our neighboring peoples in Mexico and
and all other countries of Latin America, and
for our Latin American fellow citizens. The
most singable English version we know is in
the song" book “Singing America” obtainable
from the National Recreation Association, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York. Vocal edition,
$.25. Complete accompaniment book, $1.50.
14. Aloaette
For neighboring Canada and for the fun of
a gay accumulative song,
and of singing it in French.

15. The Prayer of Thanksgiv-
ing (Three verses)

A folk—hymn of the

Dutch, but by its nature

and use it- is a universal

The National Recreation Association
is preparing an inexpensive publica-
tion containing the words and music
of the songs suggested. When copies
are ready for distribution' announce-
ment will be made in Recreation.

hymn whose resounding words of courageous faith
and freedom set to a great simple tune are a superb
spiritual tonic. It is in several American hymn
books and community song books.

That most or all of these songs are already fa-
miliar in varying degrees to large numbers of
people, a few of them well known to everyone, is
an encouraging advantage.

Another advantage is that with the exception of
the English words for Cielito Lindo and for the
Prayer of Thanksgiving, none of these songs is
copyrighted, and therefore they can be reproduced
freely by anyone for general use. And permission
to reproduce for the purpose the Cielito Lindo
English version (copyright by C. C. Birchard and
Co., Boston) and the Prayer of Thanksgiving
(copyright by G. Schirmer, Inc.) would probably
be granted.

With the exception of four of the tunes, all of
the songs arose here in the United States. It
would be a sadly wasteful narrowness to regard
only such songs as being ours. On the contrary,
among the countless beloved songs to be found
among Americans, among a peOple drawn from all
the nations of the earth, are hundreds that had
their origin in other lands. These also are in a
sense American when they are a very part of the
life of the American citizens whose native heri-
tage they are, and are greatly enjoyed (or could
be) by large numbers of other American citizens.
It is well, however, to start with songs that are
already in some measure the common possession
of a large proportion of the people. And there is
unquestionably a special and very important value
in, and a most general acceptance of, these songs
that have arisen significantly within our own
borders.

Sources of Words and Music

There is no one single book containing all of
the songs. However, words and complete accom—
paniments for fifteen of the songs listed below are
to be found in the accompaniment edition of
“Singing America,” available for $1.50 from the
National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth

Avenue, New York City. The words and melody

for the first eleven songs, and
the words only for the last four
songs listed are included in the
vocal edition of “Singing
America,” obtainable from the
Association for 25 cents.

(Continued on page 592)

 

Toy Loan Centers in lndianapolis

UST THREE YEARS ago, in
J the spring of 1938, when

the Wheel and Distaff
Committee of Caroline Scott
Harrison Chapter, Daughters
of the American Revolution,
considered a welfare project
for its members, the idea of a
toy lending library was suf—
liciently exciting to warrant

By MARION C. KEENE

From time to time word reaches the
Recreation Association of

National

toy lending libraries. or toyaries, as
they are often called. which are
operating with great success in var-

ious parts of the country. We are
happy to call attention to the work

in

being carried on

careful study. Mr. Harry E. Wood of the Voca-
tional Education Department, Indianapolis Public
Schools, told the group about the recently 0r—
‘ ganized toyary at Flanner House, the community
house operated for and by colored people. With its
resident staff and well-equipped work shop, this
toy loan center had already proved so suCcessful
and popular that Wheel and Distaff members en-
joyed the prospect of offering toy lending facilities

Indianapolis.

t0 youngsters in other parts
of the city.

Several features of the en-
terprise appealed to the com—
mittee: children from under—
privileged homes could be
given the chance to use a vari—
ety of playthings possible to
few actual owners of toys;
habits of respect for property

and personal responsibility could be fostered; and,
above all, a lot of fun could be provided for the
young patrons of the library.

Room was procured in the Northeast Commu—

nity Center where walls were freshened and cup-
boards built to house the motley array of toys col—
lected by the energetic committee. In January
1939, blanks were sent to the pupils of the schools

(Continued on page 695)

 

681

Too Many Spectators!

MERICANS have been
A described as inclin-
ed to get most of
their recreation on the
seat of their pants—even
their sports. At football
games, twenty-two care-
fully picked players en-
gage in active play, while thou-
sands sit on the sidelines and
engage in cheering and cracking
peanuts. At basketball games,
ten individuals dash across the
floor while members of their
audience sit on the bench merely
stretching their necks and
watching the score.

\Ve are certain that it is im-
portant to use leisure time wisely
and to learn to play, yet we
place such strong emphasis on
skill and championships that
only a minority of persons get
a chance to star or even to par—
ticipate. The majority are
marked for the position of
spectator. We even admit that
play is a natural form of expres-
sion, but practice seems to be
removed from preaching when

we glance at the overworked performers who have
to do all the exercise for the roaring thousands

parked 011 the sidelines.

Change in Emphasis Urged

What can be done to persuade more persons to
actually participate in sports instead of getting

exercise only on the side-
lines? By changing our em—
phasis from skill to enjoy
ment and from winning to the
thrill of participating, we may
develop fewer efhcient pea-
nut-crackers but more active
players.

One of the hopeful steps
being taken in this direction
is the widespread expansion

682

By EVELYNE BORST

There are too many spectators and
too few participants in America's

recreation, says this writer

  
 

.2"

.4,- -

-..-
 . l
2;, .. ..
e' 3"
c _-' «x
,.. a t”-
, '2
’ ..
- ‘ I
’ 3’
. “,7
.1;
- - a
t .
a f
C s“:
e.
A.
,
'9‘ a.
W

' . t, r . g a
g.‘ in.» “h tag , “I ,\ {ML  ~ku _€,_»\M,, -

Photo by Reynold Carlson

than skill we will
and on their toes

of the intramural sports
program which stresses
the fun of playing. Rec-
reation leaders and edu-
cators are realizing the
value and need of getting
the person of average
ability into the game and
are giving intramural activities
a more prominent place in the
physical education program.

Intramurals Gain Popularity

The growing importance of
intramurals can be seen at many
of our more progressive schools.
Recreational sports like tennis,
golf, swimming, badminton,
archery, handball, hiking, and
riding are being offered so that
individuals can learn to play
and enjoy activities that will
carry over into later life.

This is particularly important ,
for if a person is to be kept out
of the game because he does not
possess the required skill, he
will never find the enjoyment
which comes from participation.
By stressing enjoyment rather
have more persons off the bench
playing the game.

“There is no harm in watching paid athletic

Every once in a while we need to remind
ourselves that there are great satisfac-
tions in doing things ourselves instead
of watching others do them. "The happy
man." says Jay B. Nash in Spectatoritis,
"will be the man who is sculptoring or
painting. cultivating roses. building a
boat. weaving. playing the violin. writ-
ing a lDOOl(. having a supreme personal
enthusiasm. From this great world
the spectator must excluded."

be

performers do their stuff as there is no harm in
going to a movie or a theater. There may even
be great aesthetic pleasure in so doing. More-

over, you can learn much
about the sport in which you
are interested by watching
stars in action and observing
their technique. But there
is no special virtue in it.
Watching is not sport and
has no relation to it.”-—
I aim R. Tunis in Democracy
and Sport, published by A. S.

Barnes & Co.

 

‘ Health and Welfare Services.

Gardening for Victory

sentatives from agencies

whose programs are di-
rectly or indirectly related
to a garden program adopted
as its general subject for con-
sideration the joint report of
the Department of Agricul-
ture Garden Committee and

the Nutrition Subcommittee
of the Office of Defense

THIS MEETING of repre-

The joint report emphasized
that in 1942 a vigorous effort
must be made to encourage
(1) farm gardens; (2) home fruit gardens; and
(3) community and school gardens. It also em-
phasized the importance of growing vegetables in
order to extend school lunch programs.

Recognizing that millions of men, women and
children in the United States do not have an ade-
quate dietary standard, the joint report urged the
growing of more vitamin-filled, productive foods
on land already under cultivation, but cautioned
against converting city backyards, parks, play—
grounds or other land proved to be unsuited for
the purpose into gardens, as was commonly done
during the last war. Better methods and more
careful gardening, it is stated in the report, will
produce an abundance of nourishing food for
human use from land already under cultivation.
The program as set forth in this joint report calls
for a garden on every farm.

Two hundred and fifty persons were present,
more than half of whom were official representa-
tives of public and private agencies, publishing and
supply houses, newspapers, magazines and broad-
casting companies.

Secretary of Agriculture Claude R. VVickard
emphasized the significance of two great agencies
of government joining in this invitation and of
many other agencies participating in the program.
It is symbolic, he said, of the hand—in—hand policy
that all of us must follow from now on if the ob-
jective, “Victory,” is gained. All of our resources,
all of our thoughts, all of our energies must be
directed to winning the war. The Axis powers
have taught us a great lesson in the necessity of

By JAMES B. WILLIAMS
Washington' D. C.

The importance of gardening in the na-
tional emergency is being increasingly
stressed. Because of the growing inter-
est in the subject we are publishing a
detailed report of the National Defense
Gardening Conference called jointly
by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Director of Defense Health and Wel-
fare ServicesI and held in Washington
December I‘ll-20I l94l. The recommen-
dations coming out of the conference
will be of interest to recreation workers.

organizing for a purpose,
their one purpose being to
make war. The big job before
this Conference is to so mobi-
lize the gardening efforts of
the nation that they will help
supply the food we must have
to win the war. They must
be aimed in the same direc-
tion as the other food pro-
duction activities of the na-.
tion. Even though the total
acreage and total production
devoted to vegetable gardens
on farms and in towns may
be only a small fraction of the 7,000,000 or more
acres devoted -to commercial production of vege-
tables, potatoes and sweet potatoes, they do make
a vital contribution if they are well directed. In-
cidentally, it was stated at the Conference that one
acre of garden is equal to nine acres of corn.

The advantages of home production for family
consumption as brought out by the Secretary of
Agriculture might be summarized as follows:

1. More and greater variety of foods are consumed
by the family; this tends to improve its health.

2. The food supply is where it is to be used.

3. Reduces the necessity of transporting foods, thus
making available needed transportation for other
things.

4. Releases more of the commercial vegetable pro-
duction for other uses.

5. Relieves the necessity for packing foods in tin
cans which are becoming scarce.

The Secretary said that the extension of the
garden food production program beyond the farms
of America should receive full consideration, but
it was his opinion that a widespread, all—out cam-
paign intended to put a vegetable garden in every
city backyard or on every vacant lot would lead
to waste of time, effort and materials, and to little
production. He advocated community gardens,
provided the plan and operation of such gardens
can be given experienced direction by someone
who is familiar with good gardening practices,
who knows what vegetables can be grown most
successfully, who can select the location with some
discrimination, who understands soil preparation,

683

684 GARDENING FOR VICTORY

and who recognizes the enemies of vegetables and
fruits and knows how to control, them.

It was the Secretary’s belief that gardening is
one activity that has great possibilities as a useful
outlet for the urge of people to do something, and
also that there is a spiritual uplift in seeing things
grow. It was also his opinion that fruit gardens
should be included in the garden program. Orna-
mental planting was approved, provided it does
not interfere with the immediate ‘task of 1942 of
producing the needed vegetables, and provided
that time taken in ornamental gardening does not
interfere with time needed in direct war services.

Federal Security Administrator Paul V. Mc-

Nutt emphasized the point that this country learned
‘ twenty years ago what food can do to win a war
and the part that home gardens can play in help—
ing to increase the nation’s food supply. At that
time it was a great cooperative movement with the
voluntary organizations supporting and imple-
menting the government garden program. This
same cooperative endeavor is even more vital at
the present time.
. It is fortunate, Mr. McNutt said, that during
the 'past quarter century great strides have been
made in scientific agriculture, public health and
nutrition, and because of this knowledge the na-
tion is now prepared as never before to produce
food and to utilize that food efficiently. Improv—
ing the nutrition of the American pe0ple is now
the major goal toward which increasing the na-
tion’s vegetable gardens is directed, he said, and
it was his opinion that we shall not now think in
terms of “Meatless Mondays” or “Coffee without
Sugar,” as during the last war, but rather in terms
of a balanced diet. Conservation must be practiced,
but it must be positive
rather than negative, and
its object should not be to
do without certain foods
but to utilize food wisely
for human health, strength
and courage.

The talk by Governor
Cooper of Tennessee on
"The Home Food Supply
Program of Tennessee” is
a clear indication of what
can happen when the chief
executive understands 
program and takes an
active interest in its reali—
zation. The Governor was

"Greek mythology tells us of AntaeusI a giant
who compelled all strangers to wrestle with
him on the condition that he would kill them
if he threw them. He always did throw them.
for though they might weary him' as soon as
he touched the earth he sprang up with the re-
newed strength of seven men. There is truth in
this old legendI as manyva man has found whol
worried and even in despair. has turned his
energies to the land. So now those whose lives
are dislocated by the ferocity of economic con-
ditions. as well as by the bereavements inevitable
during the course of the war. may find solace
in aligning themselves with Mother Nature and
harnessing a small part of their colossal ener-
gies to the project of adding to the nation's

store of vital nourishment."—Dr. Samuel W.
Hamilton, United States Public Health Service.

asked to speak because of the leadership and inter—
est in the “Home Garden Program” in Tennes-
see. This program was started in 1939, and by
I940, 66,000 families had enrolled in a program to
produce at least three-fourths of what.they con-
sumed. The number has now increased to more
than 200,000 farm families for 1942, or four-fifths
of the total 247,000 farm families in the state. On
the basis of five to a family, one-third of the en—
tire population of Tennessee is now largely sup—
plied with food from its own gardens.

The simplicity and effectiveness of this whole
program is impressive. Each family is enrolled
on a card, on which a score is kept of the food
produced on the basis of its importance to the diet.
The total possible score is 1,000 points, and every
family with a rating of 750 points, which indicates
that it has produced three—fourths of the food it
consumes, is awarded a certficate of recognition
signed by the Governor, the Commissioner of
Agriculture, and the State Director of the Farm
Security Administration. Governor Cooper em-
phasized the point that the machinery for Operat-
ing‘the program in his state, as well as in others,
already exists and, as a consequence, the expenses
were very low. Even the wooden frames with
glass for the certificates are made at the state
prison. The Governor mentiOned that the certifi-
cates are awarded at harvest festivals held through-
out the state, and that as many as 3,000 farmers
were present at some of these festivals.

A little different turn in the discussion took
place when Mr. Richard Wright, Editor of H ease
and Garden, Spoke for the gardeners. They con-
stitute a host of people, urban and country, ex—
perienced in gardening, he said, and therefore are
qualified to give leadership
in this particular move-
ment. Some striking fig-
ures were cited by Mr.
Wright, “indicative of the
growth and interest in gar—
dening since 1917:

l. The circulation of maga—

zines devoted entirely or
in greater part to garden—

ing as opposed to farm-
ing has increased from a

total of about 300,000 to
more than 5,500,000.

The number of garden-
ing books published has
doubled, and today the
authorities are drawing

go

 

on their own rather than
European experiences.

3. Flower shows over all
parts of the country did
not exist in 1917; today
they are common through—
out the country, with an
attendance in some in—
stances of hundreds of
thousands.

4. The Garden ClubofAmer-
ica was only three years
old in 1617, and the Fed-
erated Garden Clubs had
not even been dreamed of.

5. Contrary to 1917, the gardeners of America pre-

sent a united front.

. Mr. W right was definitely of the opinion that a .
garden should be so planned .that the greatest
benefit will be derived from the foods produced
and the greatest pleasure from the flowers. It is

as necessary for the
maintenance of morale
to grow Howers as it is
necessary to supply the
body with fresh vege—
tables. As an indication
of the necessity of the
growing of flowers, he
cited the fact that an-
nually this country sells
and sets into gardens
between 20,000,000 and
25,000,000 rose bushes.

Commissioner Stude-
baker of the Office of
Education spoke of the
9,000 vocational agri-
cultural teachers and the
10,000 home economics
teachersas p otential
leaders in the garden
movement. Dr. Hamil-
ton,of the Public Health
Service, “in his plea for
the retention of beauty
in the garden said,
“When the pansy beds
go, the spirit goes with
them.”

Points gleaned from
reports of committees on
various aspects of the
Conference follow:

All committees recog—

GARDENING FOR VICTORY

"We the gardeners are asking ourselvesh'What
can we do' come peace, please God, to make
this a better world for all people? What can
gardening bring to men and women who have
not yet enjoyed its benefits?I FoodI yes; health,
yes; the sustaining beauty of flowersI yes. But
more respect for the land is needed' love for
the land. Each of us must determine to make
our plot of land bring forth greater increase
so that our town' our village will be a better
place in which to live. In the endI what we
defend most by our defense garden is our

dream for a better world." —Richatdson
Wright, Editor of House and Garden.

Program.”

685

nized that the F ood-for-
Freedom program of the
Department of Agriculture
will insure plenty of food
and vegetables for every-
body and that there is no
need for any hysteria about
food shortage.

The unanimous recom—
mendation of all commit-
tees was that the program
should be named the “Na-
tional Victory Garden

The committee on farm vegetable gardens asked

 

“3"

that efforts be made in each state to set up stand-
ards for an adequate victory garden and recom-
mendations as to varieties and kinds of vegetables
that would best meet nutritional defense needs. It

was recommended that
horticulturists, home
economists, seedsmen,
and representatives of
the land-grant colleges
and the Department of
Agriculture meet in
each state to formulate
specific plans for the
garden program in the
state. Farm gardens,
village. gardens, part-
time farm gardens will
be included, but people
will be cautioned against
plowing up land such
as backyards and parks.
The committee recom-
mended demonstration
gardens to teach people
how to plan, plant, and
handle farm gardens for
the greatest use in the
defense program.

The committee on
farm fruit gardens rec-
ommended that immedi-
ate steps be taken to
encourage such prac-
tices as pruning or
manuring as will tend
to increase farm fruit
yields next year, and
that such information as

686 GARDENING FOR VICTORY

will aid farmers in obtaining seeds, plants and
trees be made available without delay.

The committee on conservation and preservation
of fruits and vegetables recommended as wide as
possible use of fruits and vegetables in the fresh
or unprocessed state. It urged that accepted stand-
ards of processing and standards for the use of tin
and glass containers be set up in view of the short-
age of materials affecting the manufacture of such
canning equipment as pressure cookers. It also
suggested that information be made available to
pe0ple in all states on the types of fruits'and vege-
tables which are best preserved, under circum-
stances made necessary by defense priorities, by
storing, dehydrating, and by the newer methods
of storing and preserving made possible by such
developments as cold storage. '

The committee on community and school gar—
dens recommended that an advisory committee be
appointed from the Conference to serve for the
duration of the war. It also recommended that an
emblem be designed consisting of two carrots,
forming a V, with a tomato between them on
which is inscribed “I have a garden.” The com-
mittee suggested that the Conference adopt Secre-
tary VVickard’s slogan, “Vegetables for Vitality
for Victory.” It also recommended careful con—
sideration and planning for garden projects so as
to conserve supplies, equipment and human en-
ergy. The final recommendation was that a con-
ference be called by the extension service of each
state college of agriculture in January 1942 to
form plans for the execution of the Victory Gar—
den Program in each state.

The committee on conservation of lawns, flow-
ers and shrubs recognized the importance of en-
couraging home gardens, including lawns, shrubs
and flowers, as a factor for deve10ping morale in
defense. It called on women to assume the prin-
cipal responsibility in this phase of the garden
program.

The committee on educational materials and
methods recommended that boys and girls should
be given every Opportunity and encouragement to
participate in the garden program through their
activities in 4-H Club work, Boy Scouts, Future
Farmers of America and other rural youth groups.
In addition, the committee recommended that the
Department of Agriculture and the state agricul-
tural colleges be the primary source of subject
matter for the Victory Garden Program; that
there he set up a continuing advisory committee on
coordination; that state conferences be held for the

purpose of outlining the objectives of the Victory
Garden Program.

The reference in the report to the cautioning of
people against plowing up such land as backyards
and parks is of special interest in view of the ex-
perience of England. Speaking of the wartime
cultivation of playing fields, the National Playing
Fields Association of London, in its Annual Re—
port, 1940-1941, says: .

“The Association has been called upon to deal
with numerous proposals for the cultivation of
playing fields or parts of them. Such proposals
may be made either by the local authority or by
the County War Agricultural Executive Commit-
tee. Councils now have the power under defense
regulations to utilize wartime allotments any
land vested in them, notwithstanding covenants in
conveyances or statutory restrictions forbidding
them to do so. Many Councils, however, have
definitely declined to permit the cultivation of laid-
out playing fields; others have allowed such areas
to be cultivated. In rural areas where, in conse-
quence of the calling up of many workers, it is
often found difficult to secure the cultivation of
existing allotments, the destruction of the only
recreation ground available for the use of young
people can seldom, if ever, be justified.

“As a general principle, it cannot be a sound
economic proposition to break up cricket and foot—
ball pitches which have been especially prepared at
great expense for the playing of games, bearing in
mind the value of food likely to be grown on them.
Apart from its use for organized recreation, in
reception centers such land is essential to keep
children from playing on the roads; it is also re—
quired by troops under training or by the Home
Guard. It will inevitably cost many times more
after the war to restore the playing pitches than
the intrinsic value of the crops produced. More-
over, it must never be forgotten that the land will
probably remain arable for two years after peace
returns, and that it will be at least another three
years before it can be got ready to stand the hard
wear and tear of team play. Meanwhile, the de-
mobilized man now in H. M. Forces will return
to his home only to find that he has no playing
field. For these reasons, save in cases of proved
necessity, the Association feels that the conversion
into arable lands of sites laid out for recreation
at great expense must be regarded as unjusti-

fiable.” ! 3

 

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

IRPLANE. The thirty-eighth anniversary of

the first successful “flying machine,” which

took off December 17, 1903, was celebrated at Kill
Devil Hill Monument National Memorial, North

Carolina. Orville Wright, still living, was born
April 16, 1867.

Arboretmn, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
now has 1,137 acres. Work started in 1933. One
of the most interesting problems is the making of

a Wisconsin prairie of eighty acres. The “Juniper ‘

Hillside” is an interesting plant group started in
1936. The carpet of ever—changing wildflowers in
the open spaces between the junipers is quite dra-
matic. The entrance is being developed as an oak'
opening. A CCC camp has made the program
possible. It is an outdoor laboratory that is not
only scientific but also promotes appreciation of
the beautiful.

Audubon Society of Massachusetts is “stepping-
up” its educational program. Circulars on duck
identification were provided for Coast Guard Sta—
tions, and training courses and circulars are made
available to leaders of youth groups. The Society
helps to sponsor a Conservation Van which travels
from camp to camp. The nature lore course con—
ducted in Essex County by Kenneth Pike was so
successful that the work will be expanded. Evelyn
Bergstrom, a graduate of Massachusetts State
College, has been added to the staff.

Big Bend International Park is being developed
on the Texas-Mexico border. It is preposed that
Mexico contribute 500,000 acres and Texas nearly
800,000 acres. This project has deep significance
for international good will.

Bird Feeders and Shelters. Illustrated direc—
tions for making these
projects and a reprint of an
article are available from
J. R. Benjamin, Division of
Conservation, Columbus,

Clnb Leaders. “Volun—
teer Leaders Are Essen—
tial to the 4-H Program,”
Extension Service Circu—

The Massachusetts State College at Amherst
announces the Ninth Outdoor Recreation Con-
ference. to be held March l2-I5l I942. The
slogan adopted is "Recreation for Morale."
Ohi0_ Fourteen sections have been plannedI and the
subjects discussed will range from archery to
physical fitness. Nature and gardening. a
"Little International Livestock Show." and an
extensive exhibit are among the features.
Printed programs will be available March Ist.

lar 347. U. S. Department of Agriculture, Febru-
ary 1941. 29 pp. Highlights of the study: Job
most difficult is developing community and par— .
ental cooperation. The most successful leaders
plan their work ahead. Clubs having junior lead-
ers as well as adults tend to be more successful.
Being of service to boys and girls is the greatest
satisfaction that adults derive from 4—H leadership.

C lnb Magazine. “Hobbies, Jr.,” is published by
the Junior Hobby Club, Buffalo Museum of Sci—
ence. The November number aims to educate its
readers on skunks.

Conservation. The Cornell Rural School Leaflet
for 1941—42 will deal with the wise use of such in—
organic resources as the soil, water, and minerals.
It is published at Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York. On Thursdays at 10:30 A. M. demonstra—
tion programs are broadcast. Dial your radio at
850 if you would like to hear the material.

Eskimo. “On Arctic Ice,” Frederick Mache—
tanz. Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York, 1940.
105 pp. $1. 50. Adventures of an Eskimo boy and
his primitive ways of living.

Falconry. Experiments recently conducted with
falcons in Signal Corps and other branches of the
service are practically nil. This was thought- to be
a way of' intercepting pigeons carrying messages.
It received much lurid publicity. Falconry still
remains a popular sport.

Fishing. A new film entitled “Let’s Go Fishing
Again,” featuring Tony Accetta, all-round bait
and fly casting champion, and narrated by Ted
Husing, will be distributed without charge to clubs
in both 16 mm. and 35 mm. films. . Fisher Body
Division, General Motors.

“Forest Trees of Illinois”
is the title of a pocket
manual published by the
Department of Conserva-
tion, Springfield, Illinois.
This seventy page illus—
trated booklet will help
the people of Illinois to en—
joy their woodlands. Rev.
George M. Link, the State

687

688 IT'S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Naturalist, is stimulating nature recreation through-
out the Middle West in his own vitalizing way.

“Ghost Town,” a booklet dealing .with ghost
towns of Nevada, is being prepared by the Reno
Chamber of Commerce. This may be of interest
not only to those who are attracted by historic
backgrounds of the Old West but also to those
who see similar values in their own‘ communities.

Leadership. The Graduate School of Education
at Harvard University, in cooperation with Scout-
land, Inc., a member of the Boston Community
Federation, has an in-town program which aims
to develop groups of older boys as cooperators.
They help younger boys learn to live in Scout-
land. Films on wild animals and the woods were
followed by trips to Scoutland.

Leadership. “New Government Aids for Teach-
ers,” free list from U. S. Office of Education,

Washington, D. C.

Museum. “Exploring the Earth and Its Life
in a Natural History Museum,” James Lindsay
McCreery. Frederick A. Stokes Company, New
York, 1940. Revised edition, 312 pp., illus. $2.50.
The underlying thought and purpose of the Ameri—
can Museum of Natural History which might be
applied to any museum. It is a summary of vast
knowledge in a nutshell.

M nsenm News by children and for children,
under the title of “Parnassus,” is sponsored by the
Rochester, New York, Museum of Arts and Sci-
ences, Division of School Service. A nature trail
workshop, museum dramatic clubs, and'explorers
club report. The nature trail members have an
opportunity to join a botany, geology, ornithology,
0r entomology club under Betty Mitchell, a new
teacher. They hope to meet in the new museum
this year. I

“Plants in the Home,” Frank K. Balthis, horti-
culturalist at Garfield Park Consersation, Chicago.
The Macmillan Company, New York. 172 pp.,

16 pp. of drawings. $2.50. Winner of the $1,000
Macmillan Garden Book Award.

Promethea Cocoons. This is the month to col—
lect these trim cocoons from naked branches of the
spice-bush, sassafras, and wild cherry.

Rose Garden, City Park, New Orleans. It is
carved from a forest of oaks and bordered by fox
wood. At each end is an arbor covered with old
historic Cherokee roses. Hundreds visit this
beauty spot daily.

Snakes, “Guide to the Snakes of New Eng-
land,” issued by the ]unior Explorers of the New
England Museum of Natural History, 234 Berke-
ley Street, Boston, Massachusetts. The fifteen cent
guide was published in connection with a recent
snake show. This museum, one of New England’s
oldest free institutions, has operated for seventy-
seven years without support from city or state.

Snowfialees. In I 555 twenty-three woodcuts and
descriptions were produced by Archbishop Alaus
Magnus of Sweden ; ninety-six drawings are found
in an Arctic report by William Scoresby, Scotch
explorer, in 1820; “Snow Crystals,” which in-
cluded 2,300 photographs, was issued by Wilson
A. Bentley of Jericho, Vermont, in 1931 ; Vincent
J. Schaefer, research scientist, General Electric
Laboratories, Schenectady, New“ York, is now
making snow prints in plastic resin. Snowflakes
are born in a cloud, always are six-spoked wheels,
and wholly transparent. The growth of snow crys-
tals and the game of catching them is one of the
most fascinating hobbies for naturalist or artist.
Don’t let the “big” boys have all the fun. Catch
some flakes on black' velvet and use a small lens.

Some day nature—gramers may be exchanging rare
forms. (Adapted from “Current Science,” Decem-

ber 8, 1941.)

“Theater Under the Stars.” First presented in
the summer of 1940 by the Vancouver Board of
Park Commissioners. Giant cedars and firs make
a unique setting. The entire park of 1,000 acres
is almost entirely surrounded by water.

Trailside Muse-Inn, Chestnut Ridge Park, Erie
County Park Commission, Buffalo, New York,
under the direction of Ellsworth Jaeger, the new
Curator of Education, Buffalo Museum of Science.
A new council ring, Seneca Indian rituals, a course
for camp nature counselors, and explorer hikes
are some of the features of this new adventure.

Travel. Utah is providing a “new line of mer-
chandise” for the American traveler in 1942. C01-
ored photographs of scenic Utah in a new travel
folder are being supplied by the Department of
Publicity and Industrial Development, Dooly
Building, Salt Lake City.

Woods, “Cornerstones of California,” 63 page
illustrated booklet on woods, including scenic
beauty and romance of the state. Bank of America,
Pine and Montgomery Streets, San Francisco.

 

World at Play

Dancing Mothers and
Wondering Daughters

 

 

 

FOR SEVERAL years the Grifiith
Playground in Los Angeles, Cali—
fornia, has been the scene of an
annual city-wide women’s tap
dancing festival. This year the
event drew dancers from every
playground in the city, and small
children looked on in wonder as
their mothers “cut capers.”

 

TIIE DEFENSE Recrea—
tion Council of El
Paso, Texas, is con-
ducting a girls’ bat-
talion rally to honor local girls and women
who have served in the soldier recreation pro—
gram and to enroll new members. Announce-
ment Was made that there was need of 2,000
more girls who would give their time and
services to planning social events for the men
of Fort Bliss and William Beaumont General
Hospital. The Council also enlisted the aid of
parents to furnish transportation for members
of the girls’ battalion.

A Girls’ Battalion in
El Paso, Texas

|
I

. . SEVENTY-FIVE er
Regarding Comic p

Magazmes reading of children

in the 9—14 age group
is spent on one hundred twenty-five different
comic magazines, of which there are sold 180,—
000,000 a year. These facts were presented to
three hundred thirty persons attending a
Children’s Book Week luncheon in November
1941 at the Hotel Roosevelt in New York City.
They were compiled by George  Hecht,
President and Publisher of Parents Magazine,
who termed this form of reading a threat to
haracter development and called on publishers
of children’s books to counteract the comics’
ffects. Mr. Hecht said that his own magazine
'8 trying to tight fire with fire by publishing
hree comic magazines, hoping to check the
omics by substitution rather than prohibition.
6 suggested that lower priced books might
e the answer to promoting good reading by

  
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
  
  

cent of leisure-time-

 

making it possible to own more books and
thus showing the children that books are fun.

UNDER THE auspices
of the Dearborn,
Michigan, Depart-
ment of Recreation
an Early American Dance Institute was held
on the evenings of December I, 8, 15, and 22,
1941. The Institute was under the direction of
Benjamin B. Lovett and music was provided
by Henry Ford’s old time dance orchestra.
Over 150 people attended the first session in—
cluding representatives from the University of
Michigan and other educational institutions,
from the recreation departments of a number
of Michigan cities, and from clubs and groups
of various types. In addition to dance demon—
strations and instructions, each session in—
cluded a discussion period for the exchange of
ideas.

An Early American
Dance Institute

\VARS AND rumors of
war are responsible
for a decrease in the
nation’s reading and
for drastic changes in the types of books read
during 1941, according to the annual December
survey of reading interests by the American
Library Association, which is based on sum-
maries by librarians in representative com—
munities all over the country. Further infor-
mation about the study may be secured from
the Public Relations Division, American Li-
brary Association, 520 North Michigan Ave-
nue, Chicago, Illinois.

Reading Interests
in 1941

689

690 , IVORLD AT PLAY

‘ Here’s th ‘

6

New
DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
ireated steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOEaCU.

46|0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

   

Prize Winning Photo in Amateur Contest—-

The picture which won first prize in the ama-
teur photo contest conducted by the New York
City Park Department is reproduced on page
646 as the frontispiece of this issue of RECREA-
TION. The photograph was taken by Jack Gar-
ber of Brooklyn, New York.

Recreation Committee Appointed in Ohio-—
Willis“ H. Edmund, Director of Recreation in
Akron, Ohio, has been named Chairman of a
twelve-member Ohio Recreation Committee
appointed by Kenneth C. Ray, State Education
Director, “in recognition of the importance of
constructive thinking as to what part recrea-
tion and leisure—time activities may play in the
vital job of education.”

I

America’s Greatest Junior Air Show !———The
1941 national championship model airplane
contest held in Chicago last summer proved
highly successful from every point of view.
There were 1,381 entries from 43 states, and
an estimated 100,000 spectators jammed the
Chicago Park District’s model flying field and

the International Amphitheater at the stock-
yards to witness the indoor and outdoor events.

Bicycle Club in Beaumont, Texas—-—-Ten girls
gathered at the Y.VV.C.A. in Beaumont, Texas,
when the call went out that a bicycle club was
being organized. After a talk by the Safety First
man from the police department on traffic rules for
riding bicycles, the club got into full swing. The
girls meet once a month and plan one field trip a
month. On this trip the members bring their
lunches and ride out of the city about ten miles
for a picnic.

“America’s Children”—In the November
1941, issue of RECREATION announcement was
made of the organization by the Camp Fire
Girls of a new division for senior girls to be
known as “Horizon Club.” The community
service project which members of this group
are undertaking is known as “America’s Chil-
dren.” The clubs are finding out what is being
done and what needs to be done for the |
physically handicapped children of their com~
munities and are compiling this information in
service inventories. The project is being carried
out with the aid of the National Citizens Com— '
mittee of the White House Conference on
Children in a Democracy, and the bulletin out—
lining the project has a foreword by Marshall
Field, chairman of the Committee, whose
headquarters are at 122 East 22nd Street, New
York City. Mrs. Betty Eckhardt May is direc-
tor of the National Citizens Committee.

Coasting Zones in Scranton—A total of sev—
enteen children’s coasting zones are being "
operated this winter by the Bureau of Recrea~
tion of Scranton, Pennsylvania. Distributed
throughout this city of more than 140,000 pop—
ulation, these coasting zones permit‘ safe after—
noon and evening coasting on some of the city’s
best hills. Standard barricades and red lanterns
bar all approaching streets. Relief workers
furnished by the Department of Public Assist-
ance directly supervise each zone. For years
there has not been anything even approaching I
a major accident in Scranton coasting zones.

Ice Skating for National Health
(Continued from page 662)

school figure, ice dancing, and free skating. Figure
skating may well be compared to unicycling. Both

A AJAD MARCH HARE PARTY 691

require years of training and practice, and in both
it is a question of the fine art of balancing.

“Both skating and cycling are advocated in the
national physical fitness program. For some time
Irving Jalfee and Margaret Ives of the New York
Skating Club have been organizing a series of les-
sons in ice skating for beginners at the Center
Theater and at Madison Square Garden, New
York City. President of the City Council, New-
bold Morris, has interested himself in skating and
has been instrumental in building a city ice rink
where skaters may enjoy an afternoon of ice skat-
ing at only twenty cents a session.

“Bicycling and skating combine two of the finest
outdoor sports. Both appeal to men and women of
all ages and require only an initial outlay.

“ ‘Glide in winter—roll in summer.’ "

A Mad March Hare Party

(Continued from page 654)

The Table. The table for a March Hare Party
can be made very attractive. Cover it with crepe
paper. Green or several colors may be used. Place
in the center of the table a light brown crepe paper
rabbit seated on his hind legs on the top of a Hat
box to which he is glued. Dress him in a swallow-

tailed coat, small check or plain, plaid tie, white"

collar, and Stovepipe hat. He may carry a cane or
an umbrella under his arm. The presents or favors
may be placed inside the box. The top may be
. lifted off when you wish to take out the presents.
If you use noise makers for favors, have each one
different. For candy boxes use little square boxes

with pictures of characters from Alice in Wonder--

land and Mother Goose.

When a buffet supper is to be served, the March
Hare’s house might be used as a centerpiece. You
will remember the chimneys looked like rabbit ears
and the roof was thatched with fur. Arrange
branches and pussy willow buds around the house.

Refreshments. Plain lettuce sandwiches and a
fruit salad that looks. like an egg make attractive
refreshments. The salad is made by putting a
slice of pineapple on a lettuce leaf and covering it
with cream—mayonnaise dressing. On top of this
place a half peach, dome side up, which looks like
the yolk of an egg. For a drink, vanilla milk
shake colored with yellow vegetable coloring will
carry out the color scheme still further. For des-
sert have ice cream and place upright in each dish
a paper‘stick on which a little rabbit cut from
paper is pasted at the top.

“[30le MORNING”

UR ever popular dance manual “GOOD

MORNING” is now supplemented by four-
teen Early American Dance Records, recorded
(with and without calls) by Henry Ford’s old-time
dance orchestra. Four of these have been released
since December 1941, and more new records will
be announced shortly. They are constantly in de-
mand by clubs, schools, service centers, and recre-
ation groups. Chosen from the “GOOD MORN-
ING" book for their rhythm and simplicity, they
include a variety of quarilles, circles, couple dances,
and singing calls.

Be sure to fill out the following blank for a listing
of these records, as they compose an almost indis-
pensable teaching aid and add to the enjoyment of
the well-established class.

III-IMH—uH-‘u-nn—I—nt—nl—I—‘n—lu—p—-n-._—o-..a—ut—4§_-h_-n—nh_-————

HENRY FORD
Dept. R—Box 100
Dearborn, Michigan

Please send me a copy of your catalog listing
EARLY AMERICAN DANCE RECORDS.

Name .................................................................................................... ..

Street Address .............................................................................. ..
City ........................................................ .. State ............................ ..

If you prefer a vegetable salad instead of a fruit
salad, have a carrot ring, or carrot and celery salad.

Recipes
Carrot Ring

1 cup creamed peas
1 cup cooked carrots
1 tablespoon butter
Put peas on platter. Melt butter and add to carrots.
Put carrots around pease. Serve hot.

Carrot and Celery Salad

4 carrots (small)
4 pieces celery
pinch salt
2 tablespoons olive oil
Grind carrots and celery in the food chopper. Mix
carrots and celery with olive oil and salt. Serve on lettuce.

uIt's Your Equipment!"
(Continued from page 666)

up to me and said, “Steve, here are those two
balls."

I fully realize that this system will not work in
every community. Nevertheless I believe that in
our particular community it has been a great help

692 IF WE KNEW THE SAME SONGS

llJUIEVlll swssrn
SOFTBALL ms

MODELS

FROM
WHICH TO
CHOOSE

 
 
 
   
  
  
     

 

that will exactly fit the
batting style of your team
members. Do you have the I942
catalog? A free copy will be
sent you on request. Enough copies

of the I942 Hillerich 8: Bradsby
"Softball Rule Book" and "Famous
Sluggers of l94l" will be sent you
without cost for members ot your
teams. Please address Department
R for copies.

allttlllcll s BHADSBY COMPANY lrcnsso'aled. llllllSVlttE. IERIUBKY

and there are undoubtedly other places where it
might prove successful if given a trial. It is my
sincere belief that during the last six years our
boys have taken practically nothing from our play-
grounds. They realize the equipment is theirs and
always at their disposal, and it is their responsi-
bility as a group to see that it is cared for.

   
 
 
 
 
     

NOTE: Mr. Stevens, Physical Education Supervisor in
the public schools of Monrovia, California, also serves
as Director of Recreation during the summer months. In
this dual capacity he has an unusual opportunity to know
the young people of his community.

It We Knew the Same Songs
(Continued from page 680)

Alouette

America

America the Beautiful
Cielito Lindo

Dixie

Old Folks at Home
Rio Grande'
Sacramento
Shenandoah
Star-Spangled Banner
Thanksgiving Prayer

TI-IERE is no doubt

now about being able to
get a softball bat for every

type of hitter. tor Hillerich 8:
Bradsby have developed 29 sottball

models from which to choose the bats

Aunt Dinah’s Quilting Party
Carry Me Back to Old Virginny
Down in the Valley

Home on the Range

Sources of words and music for other songs
noted in this article are listed below:

Boston Come-All-Ye. “Songs of American Sailormen,”

compiled by Joanna C. Colcord. Revised edition of

“Roll and G0.” Norton Publishing Co., 70 Fifth
Avenue, New York City. $3.50.

Let'ee Song (I’ve Been Workin’ on the Railroad), No.

54, and Swing Low Sweet Chariot, No. 25

The above songs included in “Twice 55 Plus Com-
munity Songs—The New Brown Book.” C. C. Birch-
ard and Co., 221 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Single copies available from the National Recreation
Association, 15¢. l

Nobody Knows the Trouble I See, No. 71 in “Twice 55 I
Community Songs—The New Green Book,” C. C.
Birchard and Co. Single copies available from the Na-

. . . . l
tional Recreation Assoc1at10n, 25¢.

I Want to Be Ready, No. 185 in “357 Songs We Love, to l
Sing,” Hall and McCreery Company, 434 South Wa-
bash Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, 50¢. '

Rural Arkansas Revives Its Folkways
(Continued from page 669)

Episode V—(tor certain counties) The Negro in
(Name) County

A. Anecdotes, remedies, superstitions learned from
Negro servants.

B. Negro Spirituals. I

—(tor certain counties) The Indian in (Name) County

A. Person of real Indian descent tells Indian lore. I
B. True experiences that pioneers had with Indians.

NOON HOUR—Old time contests in fiddling, jigging, hog .
calling, jumping, wood sawing, imitations.

2 :00 P. 11.

Episode Vl—The Old Singing School

A. Songs from old shaped—note harmony books, by
choir of elderly people from all over, county. (Age
limit of singers, 70 and above.)

B. Demonstration of song leading by old time methods,
using tuning fork and “lining” the song.

Episode VII—Early Day Wedding

A. Parade of old wedding gowns, worn by owner or
descendant.

B. Marriage ceremony for the oldest married couple in
county, using same clothes, preacher, witnesses, etc..
as original ceremony, if possible.

C. Honor all couples present who have been married
fifty years or more.

THE NATIONAL FOLK FESTIVAL COMES TO NEW YORK 693

AERIAL TENNIS DART

Similar to Badminton

The National Folk Festival
Comes to New York

OR THE FIRST TIME in its nine-year history, the

National Folk Festival will be held this year

in New York City. The New York Post Festival

Association is Sponsoring the festival which will be

held at Madison Square Garden on May 4th fol-

lowing its presentation in Washington where it
has been staged for four years.

At a meeting held on January 7th, Sarah Ger-
trude Knott, founder and director of the Festival,
announced that while there will be no slighting of
familiar United States expressions, such as Spirit-
uals and square dances, this year there will be

increased reocgnition of Latin American cultural

origins.

A number of groups from recreation depart-
ments and similar organizations have taken part
in the festival in past years. This year, with the
increased need for a national cultural program to
bind together. the various racial strains, more rec-
reation groups will wish to take part. Miss Knott
may be addressed at 820 Eighteenth Street, North-
west, Washington, D. C.

Episode VIII—Good Old Mountain Music

A. String band.

B. Singers, with guitar accompaniment.

(3. Novelty acts with bones, jugs, spoons, washboards,
etc. '

Episode IX—Pioneer Play Party

A. Demonstration of play party games.

B. Demonstration of square dance, with string band'

and a good caller.

Episode X—America Today

A. Military tap dance.

B. Salute to flag by audience.

C. “Star-Spangled Banner”—all, led by President of
local Singing Convention.

j The counties that had festivals in 1941 are all
planning to_make an annual affair of this event,
and at present three new festivals are under way.

The Speech Arts in a Recreation

Program
(Continued from page 664)
to speak and valuable knowledge in selecting,
summarizing and evaluating reading materials.

Dramatics in a Recreation Program
Easy Dramatics for Busy Folks. Any person en-

joys a play, a skit, or a burlesque. It is easy to

A game of skill.
N O T A TO Y.
Economical be-
cause broken
feathers can be
replaced with
refills, pro-
longing life .of
birdie.

Birdies have solid. live-rubber_ base with small nipple at tip:
each equipped with six selected white feathers. Paddles are of
3/3" plywood, with built up handles and leather tips. All equip-
ment minutely fashioned. Sent on approval.

SELLS AERIAL TENNIS COMPANY

4838 BELINDER ROAD KANSAS CITY. KANSAS

Excellent for
schools, play-
grounds and
military train-
ing camps.
Played indoors
or out. Singles
court 20'150'.
Doubles court
26'x50'.

 

 

build on this interest in forming an amateur dra-
matics club. The individuals constituting the
membership of groups of this kind are not inter-
ested in the stage as a profession. They are ex-
pecting no flattering offers from Hollywood. They
want the pleasure and poise to be acquired through
preparing-and presenting an amateur play. Plays
chosen for this group should be simple, brief,
involving not :more than four to six characters.
Any production with a considerable number of
characters will meet great difficulty in securing
attendance at rehearsals regularly enough to do
good work. Several plays using four characters
will be better than one play with a dozen characters.

Impersonation. A study group in impersonation
is easier to lead than one in drama. There are
simpler costumes, and few problems are involved
in stage setting, lighting and equipment. Subjects
for impersonation are all about us. Such study
will develop our powers of observation and under-
standing of people.

Written Speech

This is a very tempting field, but one which
should be left to a specialist in English to outline.
However, the short story, amateur journalism,
letter writing, diaries, poetry, articles, autobiogra-
phies, browsing through current authors, political
platforms vs. presidential messages, and the best
sermons of fifty years ago vs. those of our day
offer very tempting territory.

Conclusion

In any community the work attempted must be
measured by the ability of the teachers available
and by the needs and desires of the community.
The best policy is to make a careful list of the
teachers together with a list of the subjects they
can teach and judge whether that meets the com-

694 RECREATION TO THE RESCUE!

munity needs. If not, attempt to find teachers to
fill in the vacancies in the program. Following
this plan, it is unlikely that all the above courses
would be offered in any one community. Some
courses not suggested here would no doubt be in
demand, but we have here a suggestion of possible
courses many of which are valuable and practical
in any community.

National Trends in Defense Recreation
(Continued from page 658)

ties that the determination of policies affecting cer-
tain community functions was being assumed too
largely by the federal and state governments. A
lay member of the defense recreation committee in
one of our important camp communities recently
said: “Some in this community still cling to the
idea that this just isn’t their show; that Uncle
Sam is putting it on and, apparently, paying the

bill.”

We do want our government to be responsive
to the needs of people in American communities,
but the concern of the government should include
helping the community, first of all, to square up to
its own responsibility to meet the local recreation
or defense problems. In other words, local au-
tonomy is still a basic principle of our American
democracy. That principle is weakened when a
locality thinks of the federal government as a
means of relieving it of its rightful share of the
load. The intimate services of neighborliness and
family contact, which are so vitally needed by ser—
vice men, can be supplied only as the local people
themselves give it and live it with these guests.
Accordingly, our defense endeavors, in the sense
of making our people strong in body and spirit,
will afford a constant reminder that, after all, what
we are trying to do as workers representing a
great variety of public and private forces on local,
state and national levels is to be helpful to people
who live in specific localities; to do so, we must
think of their needs for recreation and other ser—
vices from the standpoint of the total community.

The total contribution of all of our agencies and
programs has sometimes seemed very complex and
confusing if not, at times, conflicting. If, in our
endeavors, we have confused rather than helped
pe0ple, the localities will be quick to detect or even
censure. On the other hand, if our help is genuine
and effective, not only shall we have contributed
to the defense objective, but we shall also have ad-
vanced the cause of recreation permanently by

Recreation to the Rescue!

URING THE MONTH of November the City of

Wichita Falls, Texas, was the victim of its
third flood of the year, and several hundred fami-
lies were made homeless by the raging flood waters.
The Red Cross, ever ready, provided food and
shelter for the flood refugees. But that was not the
answer to the problem of noise and confusion at I
the temporary and crowded emergency Red Cross I
Center. Representatives of the local chapter called
on the WPA Recreation staff for assistance. The
call was answered, and the Recreation Center,
from Friday to Monday noon, was the scene of a
“hub-bub” of activities for 150 refugee children.l
Recreation leaders were on hand to direct such
activities as games, dancing, storytelling, crafts,
boxing, paddle tennis, and bowling. Race, creed
and color were forgotten as Mexicans, whites, and l
Negroes all played together as real American '
boys and girls. When meal time came, transpor- '
tation of the children from the Recreation Center
back to the Red Cross Center was furnished
through the assistance of Army boys and trucks
from Sheppard Field. When it was not raining, a
hike between the centers served as a pOpular ac-
tivity for thechildren.

Nor were the adult refugees at the Red Cross
Center left to their own discomfort with “time on
their hands” in the evenings. A public address
system was set up in the temporary quarters, and
each evening the staff of the Recreation Depart-l
ment arranged for a program of entertainment.
Many of the boys from Sheppard Field provided‘
talent for these programs. I

A service in time of emergency served not only
as assistance to the Red Cross and as tonic for the I
refugees, but was an inspiration to the recreation
leaders who assisted.——ances A. Hardisty, Dis-

trict Supervisor of Recreation, District No. 7,
\V PA.

 

 

having familiarized countless numbers of young
men in training and others in all of our communi-
ties with the values of community recreation. They
will be the lay leaders of influence in their own
home communities five, ten, fifteen and twenty
years hence. The extent to which they make ade-
quate recreation provision then for the children,
young pe0ple and adults of their communities of
that day will be determined, in no small part, by
the kind of contribution we make in the present
defense period. That contribution will be the re- '.
sult of both professional and volunteer leadership.

1-

“COMMUNITY PROJECTS FOR CHILD WELFARE”

"Community Projects for

Child Welfare”

OR THE BENEFIT of civilian defense volunteers
F and other community organizations, the Na-
tional Citizens Committee 'of the White House
Conference on Children in a Democracy has issued
a bulletin of suggestions as a guide for setting up
a directory of organizations, institutions, and agen—
cies concerned with the welfare of children and
youth. The bulletin is designed primarily for use
on a community or county basis, though it may be
used for a state directory.

The suggestions, which are practical and to the
point, are offered under six headings: “Why Make
a Directory?”; “Where Can a List of Agencies
and Organizations Be Found ?”; “What Kind of
Information Should .Be Included About Each
Agency ?”; “Suggested Subjects Under Which
Services for Children May. Be Listed”; “How
Should the Directory Be Arranged for Publica-
tion .7’” ; and “How Should the Directory Be Pub-
lished and Distributed?”

Another subject discussed in Bulletin No. 1,
January, 1942, is a Community Speakers’ Bureau.
And hereagain concrete, definite suggestions are
offered together with a Speakers Bureau registra-
tion form.

Copies of the bulletin may be secured from the
National Citizens Committee at 122 East 22nd
Street, New York, at 6 cents each for a single
copy; 40 cents for ten copies; $1.50 for 50 copies;
or $2.00 for 100 copies. Mrs. Betty Eckhardt May
is Director of the Committee. '

Toy Loan Centers in Indianapolis
(Continued from page 681)

nearest the 'center. These, signed by parents to
indicate their willingness to have their children
borrow play materials, were brought in by the po—
tential customers. Each child was given a' library
card On which every toy taken out was recorded
and checked off again at the end of a week’s use.'
Before being restored to the shelves for recircula-
tion, all toys were sterilized and inspected. There
were no penalties imposed upon young borrowers
for breakage or keeping toys overtime. This,
briefly, is the way most centers operate.
In the fall of 1940, the Committee enlarged its
program by opening another toy lending library at
Mayer Chapel. the community house sponsored by

Q

695

3M
W aw ATHLETIC

mam EQUIPMENT

mm. by w. 1. Von Runner corp" 1500 E. 25th St. los Angeles. Balif.
Branch: 180 N. Wacker 0:, Chicago. Ill.

 

the Second Presbyterian Church. This center was
an instantaneous and continuing success with an
immediate turnover of over 1,000 toys which by
the spring of 1941 increased to 1,240 on the shelves.
One hundred and fifty children surged through
the attractively decorated rooms every Wednes-
day. Quarters were improved when the building
itself was enlarged, special cupboards being built
for the toyary in the room off the big recreation
room where the youngsters congregate for their
toys.

Meanwhile, a third toy lending center was
Opened at the Southwest Community Center which,
in a foreign section of the city, does a fine piece
of Americanism work. The director of the South—
west Center and her assistant distribute the toys
each week without more than an occasional look—
in by Wheel and Distaff members.

While the two newer toyaries were flourishing,
the original lending unit at Northeast Community
Center was dwindling. Perhaps the children were
older, of different tastes or home backgrounds, but
their patronage of the Northeast facilities dropped
off to such a degree that Wheel and Distaff closed
the center in the spring of 1941 shortly after the
opening of the Southwest station.

Other changes in the set-up took place, the most
important of which was the withdrawal of WPA
assistance. Since that organization had most ably
assisted in staffing the toyaries and mending
broken toys, it was a serious blow to Wheel and
Distaff when new WPA heads coming into the
community shifted their interests and personnel
to other fields.

Now in the winter of 1942, the work goes on
through the valiant efforts of the Wheel and
Distaff members alone. Both funds and labor are
being solicited that this very worth—While project
of Caroline Scott Harrison Chapter’s Wheel and
Distaff may continue to provide for its many eager
toy borrowers the constructive entertainment pro-
gram of the past three years.

696 A CLUBHOUSE FOR CADDIES

PLAY PADDLE TENNIS
AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING SPORT

The Senior court, 44' x 20', has made the game at-
tractive to the expert lawn tennis player as well as
to the beginner.

Paddle Tennis can be played all-year-round on any
flat surface. Complete equipment for game can be
had for less than the price of a good tennis racquet.

For price list of nets, paddles and balls, write to

THE PADDLE TENNIS CO., INC.
I85 Mercer Street. New York City

Manufacturers and Distributors of Official Paddle
Tennis Equipment

 

A Clubhouse for Caddies

(Continued from page 67])

Checker boards, sports reviews and magazines
are available to the boys. Should any caddie feel
the urge to Whittle, he is immediately discouraged
by the fact that the benches and tables are con-
structed of stone.

A cyclone fence, five feet high, encircles the
building, and the grounds have been landscaped
and planted with huge shade trees. WPA workers
constructed concrete sidewalks around the caddie
house and leading to the course and the clubhouse.
A concrete area on one side of the building pro-
vides ample space for outdoor games.

The project was sponsored by the New Orleans
Improvement Association.

Lion and Lamb Party
(Continued from page 648)

“sheep.” The contestants must take turns reciting

their jingles. Here are some of the familiar ones:

Mary Had a Little Lamb
Baa, Baa, Black Sheep
Little Boy Blue

Little Bo Peep

You will be surprised to hear jingles you never
knew existed if the whole group is challenged!

Information Please

To have a true “Information Please” program,
you should include questions on sports, music,
drama, poetry, and current events. There should
be four contestants chosen because of their general
knowledge. The questions may be asked, drama-
tized, played on a musical instrument, or presented
in any way the committee decides.

Here are some suggested questions:
Question: Name a busineSS man’s club that might

be considered at our party.

Answer: Lion’s Club
Question: Name a well known hymn about a

sheep that was lost. I

Answer: Ninety and nine

Question: The British soldiers found posters in
Lybia left by the Italians in which was a quo-
tation about a lion and lamb. Can you quote it?

Ans'ztrer: “It is better to live as a lion for a day
than as a lamb for a thousand years.”

Question: We might talk about the wind—it is
and appropriate subject for March. Give two
quotations about wind.

Answer: “Oh wind, If Winter comes,

Can Spring be far behind?”
—-Shelley

“Blow, blow, thou winter wind”
—.S‘hakespeare

Question: Name a famous collection of stories
whose title and authors should be mentioned at
this party.

Answer: Lamb’s “Tales from Shakespeare”

   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

Where Service Men Were Always

Welcome!
(Continued from page 665)

Commission’s responsibility. In September 1934,
heavy ground swells swept the beach, demolishing
the building and pier. Temporary quarters were
immediately secured for the club, and since that
time anchors were weighed for maneuvers in
for the activity and provided a staff to carry on the
service without charge to the men, changing loca-
tions twice as property sales or other considera-
tions made it necessary to do so. At times the
rooms were cramped in size and not always was
the location the most convenient, but attendance
figures show that throughout the more than
twenty years of the club’s existence an average of
2,000 men each week were recorded as visitors——
a cumulative total of more than 100,000 a year.
The men of the fleet based here numbered fron
20,000 in the early years to about 40,000 at th
time anchors were weighted for maneuvers i
Asiatic and Atlantic waters about a year ago. 1
~50 happened that at the time of the leaving of th
Heet defense plans began to materialize whicl
brought men here to serve at a huge new nava
base, air reserve fields of both Army and Navy, an
Coast Guard headquarters. At a more recent dat
Army camps were set up at not far distant point
from which many men come on leave. And toda)

under war conditions, Army troops are actual]
(Continued on page 697)

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 697

Fun Begins at Seventy

NE DAY BACK IN 1929 two lonely old men
0 met on a park bench in Florida and com—
pared complaints. Discovering that both had
energy and nothing much to do and figuring that
the world was probably full of men and women
like themselves, they organized in Miami the first
Three Score and Ten Club. Of the eight clubs
formed since then, one in Brooklyn, New York,
now has a membership of three hundred oldsters
who have stayed young by rediscovering how to
play. Junior members range in age from fifty—
nine to sixty-nine ; seniors from sixty-nine up.

A membership fee of one dollar a year entitles

members to attend the weekly meetings at which _

they plan activities and enjoy spontaneous enter—
tainment. A gala occasion occurs the last Friday
of every month, when a social night is held. This‘
may be a dance, a party, a show which is written,
directed, costumed and acted by the members. In
the summer there are frequent excursions to the
seashore and the Poconos.

If you were to visit this group some night you
would not find a gathering of old people trying to
act young but a group of adults having a good time
in a little world they have built for themselves.
The secret of the club’s success is that every mem—
ber has something to do; he is useful and essen—
tial to the other members and in consequence
finds himself with new interests, a host of friends
and no time to feel old. Many hidden talents have
been discovered among the members. Hobbies
have been developed. From ninety-year—old Aunt

Polly to the hfty-nine—year-old juniors they never '

miss a gathering intentionally. When you see
these folks in action enjoying life you understand
why no member has ever voluntarily dropped out
of the club—(Adapted from article in This Week,
September 21, 1941)

   
   
   
  
   
  

Where Service Men Were AlwaysWelcomel

quartered in the city in considerable numbers. And
0, with the fleet away from port, the Service
Men’s Club continues to attract large numbers of
ervice men.

Now in prospect is a fine new building with all
he necessary features for a men’s club adequate
o accommodate large groups. Federal aid is be-
ng considered for this project as a part of the
mergency defense plans to provide proper recrea-
ions for men in service when on leave—even

(Continued from page 698 )

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, December 1941
“Has Your City a Pool?”

Camping Magazine, December 1941
“Dramatics at a Boys’ Camp” by George A. Jarvin
“Stop-Watch Swimming” by Harold M. Gore

Camping Magazine, January 1942
“This is Camping” by Emily H. Welch
“What About Winter Camping?” by Lois Goodrich

Camping World, January 1942
“England’s Children in Wartime” by Susan Isaacs

Canadian Nature, September—October 1941

“Nature Lore in Camp” by Taylor Statten
“Nature’s Beauty Makes Interesting Hobby”

Correctional Recreation, September 1941
“Arts and Crafts” by Howard L. Briggs. Hobby
work in relation to vocational education in cor-
rectional institutions

The Foil, December 1941
“Recreation and Its Contribution to Total Defense”
by G. Ott Romney
“Recreation Today” by Martha B. Deane. Contribu-
tions of recreation toward building a better
America

Journal of Health and Physical Education, January 1942
“Defining Physical Fitness” by Leonard A. Larson

“Figure Skating: Group Instruction for Beginners”
by Nadine Buck

National Municipal Review, January 1942

“On the Local F ront.” Communities mobilizing their
recreational facilities for soldiers and sailors

The Nation’s Schools, January 1942
“Community-Centered Secondary Schools” by Arthur
B. Moehlman

Par/as and Recreation, January 1942
“A New Type of Hockey Rink” by Charles Rapp

The Physical Educator, December 1941

“A Modern Method of Teaching Sports and Games”
by G. M. Gloss

Scholastic Coach, January 1942
“Playground Surfacing”

“Standards for Football Floodlighting” by Ralph A.
Piper

Story Art, September-October 1941

~ “The Story Teller’s Most Important Tool” by Ellen
Dashiell

PAM PH LETS

Attention! To Your Health by Ernest I. Stewart, Jr. A
practical handbook for the future selectee
Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Columbia
University, New York

Building Harmonica and Novelty Bands by Harold

Morgan
Harold Morgan, 1758 NOrth Ninth Street, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin

Community Recreation Programs. A study of WPA rec-
reation projects
Work Projects Administration; Federal Works
Agency, Washington, D. C.

698 THE SOLDIER IN DAYTONA BEACH

"Home Again"

0 With the air raid precautions which are
restricting to some ex’remL evening ac—
tivities. America will soon use a new
slogan—"Back to the Home!"

To answer the growing number of in—
quiries regarding games and other ac-
tivities which family groups may enjoy
in the home. the National Recreation
Association has prepared an illustrated
bulletin entitled "Home Again" contain-
ing Suggestions for some simple things
any family may do.

Send for a copy of this bulletin
and then give us your suggestions
for additional activities

PRICE IS CENTS

Recreation Association
New York City

National
3 | 5 Fourth Avenue

 

“Cracking Up” Under the Strain by Edgar V. Allen.

Reprinted from H ygeia, September 1941
American Medical Association, 535 North Dearborn

Street, Chicago, Illinois, price $.10 (quantity prices
furnished on request)

An Evening of Old Time Social Dancing prepared by
Aksel G. Nielsen. Description and music for twelve

“popular” old time dances
Division of Community Service Programs, Work
Projects Administration, 1206 South Santee Street,
Los Angeles, California

Where Service Men Were Always Welcome!

though it so happens that the activity is not a
sudden and temporary creation but one of the best
established, regular features of the Long Beach
supervised recreation program. So well recognized
is the club that trucks bringing men from the Navy
base make scheduled stops at its door.

In addition to the daily reception of men who
wish to write letters, read, play games, and become
acquainted with one another in restful surround-
ings, several special features of the program main-
tained deserve mention. Parties, social dances, and
other events are frequent, and in these the club
manager has the assistance of an organized Girls’
Auxiliary, assuring pleasant companionship under

the most approved conditions for the boys who

    
   
  

are away from home. Local groups of the Navy
Mothers and of the Navy Wives of America also
assist in the general program.

The club rooms are open Sundays and holidays
as well as week days. A Java Club is a Sunday
morning religious service feature and vesper ser-
vices are held Sunday afternoons. Not only in th
case of the Sabbath features but in relation to th
entire club program, the most hearty and active co
operation of Army and Navy chaplains is enjoyed.

The Soldier in Daytona Beach

(Continued from page 655)
partment with name, telephone number and ad

dress. Each volunteer hostess in turn gave Mrs
Lyons the names of ten young women who woul
be available as dancing partners for service men.

Dances at the city casino carry a ten cent ad
mission charge, and it has been found that the mei
prefer to pay this nominal charge. A good orchestr
is provided for each of the series of dances.
floor show is usually arranged and iced drink
were available at all times. No smoking was al
lowed on the dance floor and no one who ha
been drinking was admitted. For each dance th
casino auditorium has been decorated by flags,
bunting and Florida bamboo, tropical flowers an
ferns.

Rules for the dances are simple. No girls unde
sixteen years of age are admitted. Girls carr
identification cards with their names and ad
dresses. They are asked to dress in formal o
semi-formal clothes and slacks or shorts are en
tirely taboo. They are not permitted to leave th
casino during the dance and special permissio
from a hostess is necessary if a soldier wishes t
escort a girl home.

Since April over 40,000 soldiers have been en
tertained under the leadership of the Recreatio
Department. Not all of these have attended th
dances but the proportion has been heavy. Towns
women have invited service men to their home
for meals. While it seems a little unconvention
to suggest to your guests that they might like
tub bath, this has been done with splendid re
sponse from the men who enjoy the comforts 0
home which are not always available at camp. Th
Recreation Department has even found a “house
mother” who has sewed on buttons and mende
socks for the boys when they were in the city.

The men who have enjoyed the hospitality 0
Daytona Beach will always remember it as a
exceptionally friendly city.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Do You Know Your Garden?

By Gladys M. Goshorn. Oxford University Press, New
York. $2.50.
HIS IS AN unusual type of garden book in which
horticultural knowledge is given a recreational slant
through the use of a quiz game which is fun to play.
Through this game you will learn what your horticul-
tural I.Q. is. Much practical garden information, history
and Hower lore are presented. 4

Kingdom of the Trees

By Erle Kauffman. Reilly and Lee, Chicago. $2.00.

OMANCE, SCIENCE, history, tradition, economics, all

play their parts in the story of trees. And they are
all interwoven in a fascinating story told to Betty and
Ben by their forester uncle. Uncle John describes various
specimens of trees, tells where they are to be found, the
numerous uses for the wood of each, a little of the
botanical lore that explains their growth, and something
of the roles they have played in history. The last six
pages of the book are devoted to a table for tree identifi-
cation which is exceedingly valuable.

   
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  

Campfire Guide

By Margaret K. Soifer. The Furrow Press, New York.
$.25.

COLLECTION OF FACTS, experiences, and ideas about the
planning and enjoyment of campfires, this booklet is
so simple and practical that anyone who reads it may
building himself a good fire, cook good food at it, and
ing and play around it with a friend.

How Libraries May Serve

amphlet No. 17, U. S. Office of Education. Govern—
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. $.15.

HIS TWENTY-PAGE PAMPHLET suggests the services
which school, college, public, state, and special
ibraries can render in the defense program. It tells
.ow the nation’s army of approximately 40,000 trained
ibrarians can help democracy in this hour of crisis. The
iamphlet is one of a series of some twenty which the
. S. Office of Education is issuing under the title,
‘Education and National Defense Series.” A few of the
itles of publications included in this series are: Our
ountry’s Call to Service; What the Schools Can Do;
ome Nursing Courses in High Schools; Hemisphere
olidarity; How Libraries May Serve; Sources of Infor—
iation on National Defense; Democracy in the Summer

amp; Vocational Rehabilitation and National Defense;
d What Democracy .Means.

Be Safe and Live

By L. G. Derthick, L. E. Sullivan, and J. P. Henderson.

Johnson Publishing Company, Richmond, Virginia.
$1.00.

THE VERY PRACTICAL material which appears in this
book has been classified under four main headings:

Safely We Work; Safely We Play; Safely We Travel;
and Safely We Think and Feel. In addition, there is a
section telling of safety organizations and of the part
played by the community in the safety program.

A Field Guide to Western Birds

By Roger Tory Peterson. Houghton Miffiin Company,
Boston. $2.75.

READERS FAMILIAR with Mr. Peterson’s Field Guide to

the Birds for the eastern part of the country will
welcome the announcement that there is now available a
similar guide to birds in the Rocky Mountain states, the
Pacific states, the Pacific Northwest, and the Southwest.
All birds are pictured, and there are forty pages of

half—tone illustrations, forty-eight line cuts, and six pages
in full color.

Great Wings and Small

Bird Stories of Our Day. Compiled by Frances E. Clarke.
The Macmillan Company, New York. $2.50.
0 HER BOOKS about animals Miss Clarke now adds a
collection of bird stories which will make a wide
appeal to nature lovers of all ages. Twenty-nine authors,

many of them well—known naturalists, have contributed
stories to the collection.

Costume Design

By Anne R. Chuse. Bridgman Publishers, Inc., Pelham,
New York. $1.00.
BEGINNING WITH PREIIISTORIC costumes, this book takes
us through Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Byzantine cos-
tumes, and the Anglo-Norman period. From that point
on the author presents information on costuming from
the thirteenth to the twentieth centuries.

The Picture Puzzle Story Book

By Hans Kreis. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.00.
ACOMBINATION 0F STORIES and picture puzzles which
all children will enjoy and which will give them
interesting facts about their country. Each story is illus-

trated with a picture puzzle in which objects are Skill—
fully hidden for the child to find.

699

700 ‘ NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Probation and Parole Progress.
Yearbook 1941.

Edited by Marjorie Bell. The National Probation
Association, 1790 Broadway, New York. $1.25.

The Yearbook of the National Probation Association,
a symposium of current opinion on the treatment and
prevention of delinquency and crime, contains the papers
given at the Annual Conference of the Association held
in Boston last May and others presented at the sessions
of the Association at the National Conference of Social
Work in Atlantic City last June. Very significant for
recreation workers are a number of these papers, among

them the address by Arnedeo O. Taiano on “Using the
Group in Probation Work” and “The Citizenship Train-
ing Program of the Boston Juvenile Court,” presented
by Kenneth I. Wollan. The Yearbook also contains in-
formation regarding the National Probation Association
and its program, with which recreation workers should

be familiar.

Creative Group Work on the Campus. I

By Louise Price, Ph.D. Bureau of Publications,
Teachers College, Columbia University, New York.

$3.25.

This study is in reality a description of a series of
experiments which were aimed at democratizing and
improving the quality of student life at Stephens College
and Stanford University. The study centered in the
informal activities of students, frequently known as
extracurricular, and its implications interpenetrated the
larger social and scientific environment of students on
each campus. This section of the study, however, is
prefaced by two sections which will be of great historical
value to students of the group work field. In one of them
Dr. Price has traced the development of group work
through the contribution of individuals and of groups.
In another section she has presented the contributions of
philosophy, social psychology, and sociology which are
important to the theory and practice of all group phases
of student life, on the campus.

Physical Education for Small
Elementary Schools.

By Harold K. Jack. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.60.

In its presentatiOn of a plan of graded physical educa-
tion for small and rural schools, this concise book con-
tains a complete program of physical activities for all
eight grades, furnishes a balance of activity by type, and
provides for progression from group to group.

Your Child’s Development and
Guidance Told in Pictures.

By Lois Hayden Meek, Ph.D. J. B. Lippincott
Company, Philadelphia. $2.00.

A book for parents which will help them better under-
stand and guide the growth and development, both
physical and mental, of their own children. The volume
is filled with excellent photographs, drawings, diagrams,
and charts. There is a chapter on “Relations with Other
Children” in which the child’s play life is discussed and
the importance of having playmates is stressed.

An Appreciation of Physical Education.

By Helen Ann Pen-dergast. Prentice-Hall, Inc., New
York. $2.50.

This combination text and workbook is designed for
use in those phases of the physical education program
which have to do with orientation and appreciation. It
may be used as a reading reference, a guide for class
discussion, and a notebook for student use through lec-
tures and appreciation lessons. The importance Of an
appreciation of the relationship of physical education to
the use of leisure is stressed throughout. The material is
admirably presented in all its phases.

    
  
    
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  

Tree Neighbors.
By Russell Doubleday. Doubleday, Doran & Com-
pany, New York. $1.75.

This book is about the “gracious trees that can b
grown to shade our homes or may be planted to harbor
birds and squirrels.” Some facts are given about culture
and care of the trees, as well as distinguishing features
of each of the trees described.

The Official Football Guide 1941.

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $.50.

As in the case of Official Guides for other sports, The
Ojiicial Football Guide covers the playing- rules, funda-
mentals, techniques, coaching, and playing hints and
equipment.

A Citizen’s Guide to Public Housing.

By Catherine Bauer. Vassar College, Poughkeepsie,
New York. $.60.

Not all of the answers to housing problems are to be
found in this booklet because no one is equipped at this
initial stage to give the answers. This booklet is, how-
ever, an attempt to present the housing picture as it look
to the people who have been working in the field for th
past five or ten years. Information is given on certaii
background facts such as why housing is important, wha
the American housing problem is, and what we are dOin
about it. The 'booklet should be Of vital interest to al
Citizens.

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Boar
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. \VILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTlIUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz. °
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, New York, N. Y.

H. McIi. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CIIARLES D. .LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTo T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, Washington” D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

