 

1'.“ 'i F‘“ h: f) "4 .. .' l- 1"! 1- ill \lrru ’1: Wkly“ N. V-

l~

Firsts in Wartime

Train Jottings
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

National Recreation Association
THE first task is to win the war.
And what is needed for this task?
Men, young men, determined, effective.

Airplanes—tanks—ships,

Guns, ammunition, rubber, gasoline. ‘
Organization and c00peration.

And the Federal Government must lead.

The President is Commander-in-Chief.

And again——-what is needed first?

Religion is a first.

Belief in the possibilities of the great mass of the people of the world is a first.
Belief that there are principles that matter.

There is need for individuals and societies to think in terms of trusteeship.
Men with gifts must be ready to assume burdens.

Our children must continue to go to school.
The mental health of all of us must be maintained.

A fair degree of physical health is needed.
We must have recreation to keep life with a measure of light-heartedness and resiliency.

Men who fight must know their families have the most of security and care possible while they
are away.

0

It is important to care for children in need.

It is important to care for old age.

It is important to concentrate on essentials. It is a good time to postpone all controversies that are
not vital. This is not a particularly good time to raise questions about a few misplaced

paving stones:

The precision of more than a thousand bombers and airplanes arriving over Cologne, Germany, on a
single night on a six-second schedule sets an example for social work in planning and cooperation.
Institutionalism in wartime should be out.

5

Always there must be readiness to adapt quickly.
There should be an end of attempting to make work appear to be war work when in reality it is not.

Social work is based on the education of individuals, neighborhoods, communities, rather than leav-
ing control to those who have the greatest force. Social work stands against the individualistic
use of force but leaves a place for force in the cooperative maintenance of justice and order.

Social work has reason to know from its own characteristic eXperience that war sets back human
progress; that war between nations, as between individuals, ought to be ended; that there is
need of some form of world organization with cooperative force behind it to preserve freedom
and a large measure of justice, even if this means a certain degree of sovereignty is lost to the
United States and each other nation, even if the people of the United States must share in some
form of continuous international policing.

The experience of social work gives a degree of authority for urging that the people of the United
States recognize the integrity and the dignity of individuals throughout the world, provided
such individuals act in a responsible manner as members of the communities in which they live.

263

Social work has had special experience in slum areas and can say with authority that men may not
isolate themselves and attempt to live neutral, having a special civilization for their own kind
while the rest of the world remains in conflict or crushed. Social work has a special knowledge ‘3
to indicate that the Bill of Rights should be applied to all the world.

Social workers in North America and South America ought to make the most of each opportunity to '
share experiences with each other. I
After the war. hnancial stability of the world is a main concern of social work. Resumption of I

regular social work after the war is not so important to human progress even in the United ‘3
States as is the establishment of a measure of world financial stability. '

i
J.
l
l
i

We must not grow tense over world suffering not in our power to relieve. a

Yet we must face what we as people and we as government can do to relieve hunger and pain. ‘-

Planning now for relief of starvation in various parts of the world is of great importance toJ
social work in the United States. Young persons in the modern world cannot safely be left
to starvation. Yet the problem of food for the post-war World is staggering.

We must recognize that it is of the greatest importance that the ending of war and the organizing of
the world for freedom and justice should be kept from becoming a political issue between the-

Republican and Democratic parties in the United States.

With heavy war expenditures and high taxes central national and world leadership cannot well be
avoided, but it is equally important that there be constant and vigorous effort to keep all the
local units strong and self-directing as far as is humanly possible.

There must be progressively greater opportunity for self-education under experienced leadership for all
individuals, all communities, all peoples.

We must prepare ourselves now to pay the price for keeping civilization.

As individuals, as groups, as factions, as neighborhoods, as cities, as states, as nations, we must
prepare to pay the price.

Values may not be had without a price.

Part of what we hold dear must be given up for what we hold more dear.

We must not leave all to government.
Yet we must not be afraid of ourselves as government—We the people are the government.

We the people through our government and we the people through ourselves outside the govern-
ment must do what we can. '

All we have, all we are, is not too much to pay to preserve freedom.

We have a right to pledge the resources of our children and our children’s children to keep a worl
worth living in. '

Security, freedom,.justice—are important enough to justify the suspension of all but the minimu
essentials which give us heart to carry on.

It would be better to suspend much of our community work and let pe0ple suffer for a time tho
to keep our little institutions intact and have all the people and all the children of all the peo
suffer for an indefinite period.

Yet there need be no such cho‘ice. ..

United cooperation will make possible keeping what is essential to civilized living while doing 0
part to build a friendly world.

The war is being fought over issues that lie very much in the social work field.

Freedom from fear because of race, religion, ideas, poverty, is central to life itself and to hum
progress and does not lie outside the sphere of social work.

Freedom with self—discipline is important.
It is important that incentives to live be maintained.

AUGUSLI94

 

264

No Blackout for the Arts

HERE ARE occasional blasts from
Tofficial quarters about compla-
cency in the general public. But
it is increasingly difficult to find peo—

ple unawakened to the
gravity of the war and
the importance of bend—
ing every energy to its

rapid and victorious conclusion. There is an almost
pathetic eagerness to put first things first. The
danger is that in trying to do so blindly, we may
be doing something else than sacrificing nonessen-
tials. We may with the best will in the world be
destroying the very foundations of our civilization.
It is 'one thing to cut out lux-
uries and extravagances, to be
sure there is no waste of any of
the time or materials or effort

necessary to war production,
or fruitful in war strategy.
But it is equally necessary
to keep alive those things
which we may allow to per-
ish in our anxious efforts to
save them, to keep fresh
those activities like music,
literature and the fine arts
without which civilian life
would be profoundly dis-
malized and even demoral-
ized.

There is a danger at this
crucial time of seeming smug
or cold, asleep to the dan-
gers that surround us in a
plea for the maintenance of
music, art and literature at
the present time. It would
seem like the most natural
suggestion of patriotism to
recommend a moratorium
on these things until a just
peace is restored to the
world and men can breathe
again freely,

_ Surely, it may be argued
on at least two grounds, we
can do without the diver-

 

By IRWIN EDMAN

Professor of Philosophy
Columbia University

sions and enjoyments of the fine arts
for the long present. We are, in the
first place, doing without many other .

things, and will have to learn, should

This articleI published in The New York Times
Magazine, April I9. is reprinted through the
courtesy of The New York Times and Dr. Ed man

the war last any length
of time, to do without
many more. Are not pic—
tures and concerts, poetry

and novels like sugar? Are they not the sweets of
life which we must learn to forego? Are they not
like those rubber tires which take us smoothly
through delightful landscapes on vacation tours?
We are learning to do without sugar and tires;
why not without music and literature and art?

These things take time, they

"As long as free men create and
are given a chance to be moved
by creation. the spirit of free
men will be kept alive and free"

Courtesy Battle Creek, Michigen,
Department of Cwic Recreatzon

take materials, they take men.
And in themselves they never
will stop a tank or down an

enemy plane. They are not
necessary to keep us alive
and they will not destroy
the enemy.

Are not these the criteria
by which everything in
everybody’s life ought ruth-
lessly to be measured at the
present time? The argu—
ment seems plausible enough,
and it would possibly be so
if this war were sure to be
over in a month, or if life
were bearable or possible
over an extended period
without the consolation and
the stimulus of the arts by
which the imagination of
men is fortified and their
courage is fed and renewed.

It requires but a moment’s
reflection to see how dan-
gerous it would be to black—
out the creative arts until
the war is over. There is
reason enough, we are re-
liably assured, for believing
it will be a long war. It is
obvious that in that war,
however large the armed

265

266 NO BLACKOUT FOR THE ARTS

forces, there will be an incomparany larger civil-
ian population that, for all its sacrifices and war
work, will go on living, outwardly at least, as
civilians. Millions of peOple, however eager to
serve and however eagerly serving, will have to
serve in civilian capacities, in factories, schools,
hospitals, ofiices, in all the complicated services of
ordinary civilian life organized toward a single
war aim.

The reason we need to be reminded so often
that “this is war” is because civilian life does go
on, for all the differences, with a deceptive nor-
mality. The differences will loom larger, however,
and as they loom larger, the importance of what
may at first seem like the luxuries of the fine arts
will be made clearer. The tensions and the hys-
terias will grow more, not less. The strain of bad
news, the dislocation of personal lives, the anxiety
about relatives and friends in the armed forces, the
weariness of renunciation
will grow, especially in the
civilian population. There
will be irritation. There will
be perplexity, there will be
boredom.

All these things are pres-
ent, in normal times, in ci-
vilian lives. They are inten-
sified by the blackouts, phy-
sical and spiritual, of war-
time. The consolations and
refreshment of the arts are familiar enough in nor-
mal epochs. Their curative and energizing values
are more obvious and more needed now than ever.
The war will be a long pull, as far as any one can
see, and while a twenty-four-hour war effort is
needed no one expects that each individual will
work twenty-four hours a day. For a while dur-
ing the worst of the Blitz and invasion threats, in
Britain, a seven-day week was instituted for every
one in war factories. It was found that on the
ground of sheer production the scheme defeated
itself.

Leisure will, of course, be cut down. The mar-

gins of life are necessarily lopped off in wartime _

as they may soon be lopped off the pages of our
books. But a minimal margin of time there will
have to be, and it is because the margin may be
small that those arts of life which provide life itself
with intensity and renewal need to be continued.
\V e have, luckily—as in the matter of air raid pro-
tection and air raid behavior—the experience of
England to give us clues as to the function of the

"One of the great values of art in all times
is to fill the spirit with more variety and
than any life contains.
Much of the necessary work and the neces-
sary sacrifices of life under war conditions
are dull; the bleak and the anxious spaces
of life are greater than usual. It is hardly
the time to cut down and cut out the solace
and the enchantmentI the color of paint-
ing. the sound of music and the order and
meaning that literature gives to experience."

interest and serenity

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
   
  
   
  

arts in wartime. Out of necessity, the paintings in
the National Gallery in London have been stored
away in safe places. Out of necessity, evening
concerts were for a while abolished. But two ex-
tremely illuminating things happened. So much
hunger was there for music that when Myra Hess
offered her services at lunch-hour concerts in the
empty spaces of the National Gallery there was an
audience of mob prOportions who came day after
day. \Vhen exhibitions of paintings were impos-
sible for a time in London, they sprang up in pro-
vincial towns that had never dreamed of them
before. A similar situation is reported with respect
to books. Surely, if ever a country might have
been thought to have other things to think about
than reading, it was the England of 1940, threat-
ened with invasion and bombed mercilessly from
the air. Yet it was in 1940 that England experi-
enced its greatest boom in the reprints of classics,
and in England that, as
paper rations dwindled, the
uses for reading grew.

All this is to imply that
music, literature, painting,
sculpture are escapes from
reality, a function that many
peOple in the past have
found in the arts. Escape is
an ambiguous word. It seems
to mean a retreat to the un-
real, to the fanciful, to the
sentimental. People do escape in the arts only in
the sense that they escape from stuffy rooms to
fresh.air, from crowded cities to open country,
from the clang and clamor of the streets to th

The arts, like fresh air and open country, ar
wonderful restorers of health, a sense of propor
tion, a sense of serenity. They enable men to lo
beyond the acute distresses of the present to glean
of a possibly better and sweeter world, They en
able men and women to return to the grim tas '
of bringing about the conditions of such a wor'l'd
by what Edward Mead Earle has called the “sur
gery of arms,” with fortitude and renewed spirit.

The arts are, it is often said, drugs and Opiates
A better name for them would be tonics and stim
ulants and restoratives. In the best of times, peopl
turn to music, painting and books because it help
them not only to endure but to understand an
feel more clearly and resolutely about the world in

( C ominiwd on page 309)

Outdoor
Cookery

for

Crowds

HE COOKING of meals‘
Toutdoors for large

numbers is as old as ,
recorded history. Today '
we use practically the same
time-honored methods and
many of the same foods in
“herd cookery,” so called
rather inelegantly by  A.
Wilder. Usually these cook-outs
are for social and recreational
purposes, although they can be
planned to serve an educational
purpose, as in training camps
and counselor training courses. In all cases the
guests enjoy seeing the food being prepared and
often it is a good plan, especially if the group is
not too large (over thirty or forty), to give each
guest the opportunity to prepare or finish the pre-
paration of one or two items for himself. Differ-
ent methods of organizing the mechanics of han—
dling the group will be suggested in the last part of
this article.

We shall consider here only large group cook-
ery which can be done on the spot with a few
simple utensils and not take into consideration at
all foods cooked in a kitchen and merely served,
picnic style, in the open, such as salads, sand-
wiches, or cold meats. The cookery we are speak-
ing of is in an entirely different category and ad-
mittedly involves more “work,” but it is certainly
much more fun and interests and intrigues the
participants in a way that a
prosaic picnic never could. In
fact, such an event could be a

real adventure, especially to

permission to
the rank and file who have had

 

Courtesy Journal of Health and Physical Education

By BARBARA ELLEN JOY

Director
The Joy Camps

We are indebted to the Journal of
H ealtb and Physical Education for
reprint this article
. _ which originally appeared in the
limited experience in camp- May I942 issue of the Journal.

"A good meal in the
outdoor style can be
the outstanding fea-
ture of a sport fest,
summer school outing.
playday. conference,
or convention, Scout

or camp gathering,
training course, or
outing club program."

ing and outing activities.

There are so many novel
and different kinds of food
suitable to “herd cookery”
and so many interesting
ways of cooking it, that it
seems a waste of oppor-
tunity to keep on year after
year with such old stand—
bys as wieners and hamburgers.
But even the wiener can be
cooked more romantically than
by boiling or on a stick, and
hamburgers can be turned out
otherwise than in the kitchen skillet. We believe
that outdoor cooking, whether for ten or five hun—
dred, can be done both imaginatively and intri-
guingly and thereby whet appetites and increase
the pleasure of all concerned.

In order to facilitate the giving of as many sug-
gestions as possible it seems best to classify them
roughly under methods of cooking and to follow
this with a few sample menus, a short section on
organization, and a brief bibliography.

One-Kettle Dishes

Each of these “dishes” is practically a meal in
itself and can be cooked in unlimited amounts.
Many of them, obviously, do not need additional
vegetables on the menu. Several of them should
be served with or over boiled rice or potatoes,
toast, crackers, biscuits, johnny cake. Ordinary
kitchen kettles can be used for
equipment, either placed over a
hunter’s or trapper’s fire or
suspended from a lug-pole.
Standard aluminum camp ket—
tles are best, and next in

267

268 OUTDOOR COOKERY FOR CROWDS

desirability are homemade kettles achieved by
putting a wire bail on a No. to tin or other large
tin container. Dish pans, wash boilers, and tubs

should be considered for larger groups.
Frizzled beef gravy with Creole wieners
carrots and peas Scrapple
Scrambled eggs, bacon, to- Chop suey
mato, and cheese Goulash
Counselors chowder Chili con carne
Ring Tum Diddy Pine bark stew
Corn chowder Jungle stew
Camp chowder Canadian chowder
Komac stew \Vilderness hash
Dutch oven ham and Camp jambalaya

potatoes Burgoo
Salmon wiggle Yankee boiled dinner
Squaw corn Sauerkraut and spare-ribs

Simple and Easy Individually-Cooked Items

Each of these items is cooked on a pointed,
green stick or long skewer made of stiff wire with
a wooden handle; or on a makeshift hand broiler
or a kitchen toaster (although that is too effete
for fun). If the group is too large for strictly
individual cooking, the “makings” can be gotten
ready in some cases for the guests to file by, cafe-

teria style, and assemble their own.

Angels on horseback Hamburg loaf

\Vieners Chops, thin slices of meat
Kabobs (cubes ofbeef, lamb, Sandwiches and “toasts,”

pork, liver; kidneys, such as: ham and pine-
sweetbreads, oysters; apple; cheese; cheese and
mushrooms, bananas; al- bacon;'bacon, tomato, and
ternated with onion slices, lettuce; apple butter or
small tomatoes, etc., with sauce and bacon; honey-
long bacon strip woven cinnamon; banana; apri-
under or over each item cot and marshmallow, etc.
as put on stick.) Green corn

n Cooked Underground

These suggestions are excellent for “mob
scenes.” This is the “fireless cookery” method and
requires extensive preliminary operations in the
matter of fuel and fire building and considerable
eigperience in handling the whole procedure.

Bean hole beans Braised ham slices
Ham or chicken with vege- Cottage ham and potatoes
tables Lobsters and clams

Large pieces of beef, lamb,
etc.,or small pigs or lambs

Cooked Over Coals on Grid

The grid is placed over a trench containing a
bed of hardwood coals or glowing charcoal. This
grid can be a piece of gravel screening, a metal
door mat, old oven grate, or bed part, supported
over the coals by iron bars or pipe sections. The
trench should be rock- or brick-lined if possible.

Green corn

    
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  

There is recorded in history, in Father Dc Saw,
a similar lire used for the ceremonial cooking-of fish
by the Kootenai Indians which was fifty feet long
A fire that long and two or three feet wide would
hold a fortune in porterhouse steaks or broile
spring chicken !

Barbecued spare ribs Wieners Oysters in shell
Chops of all kinds Hamburg loaf Split fresh fosh
Steaks

Broiled chicken

On Spits

A turning spit made out of a green, peeled stick
will work, but an iron spit is better, as the insi .
of the meat is cooked from the conducted hat.
Crotched supports for the spit should allow for '
least two distances frgm the fire. Not only is t °
method fun to watch, but the odors that arise ar

devastating.

Barbecued chicken, ducks,
turkeys, game, etc.

Roasts of all sorts

\Vhole small pigs; whole or
half lambs

Sections of beef

Individual Desserts

Some of these call for individual preparati
sticks. The individual “clips” for his dessert i
others.

Lots mores Apples baked in ashes
Some mores Banana boats
Taffy kabobs Chocolate sandwiches

Marshmallow and date bobs Candied or tati'y apples

“Special”

Regional tradition and customs include us
ideas for outdoor cookery on a large scale, such
the burgoo of Kentucky, the western and sou
ern “get-together” barbecue, New England cl
bake, fish fries, barbecues, and “planks” of o
coastal areas, Hawaiian dishes, and hosts of otl .
If there are people in the planning group \
parents remember the customs of the old cou
it would be well to ask them for ideas. For
stance, our kabobs come from the Turkish 5' °
kebab; goulash in its various versions from '
gary; chili is Mexican, and the Croatians put I
luscious looking lamb barbecue for large nu
which they call a yanyetina. Tin can cookery
smaller groups has many good points. A t
pound coffee can, for instance, will hold the
materials for a man-sized meal and the same
may be used as the kettle or stove in or on
the meal may be cooked. Number IO tins
fine little stoves for two, for bacon and eggs, ‘-
cakes, chops, etc. Progressive and treasure- .
suppers, sunrise “surprise” breakfasts, and 0
similar titles applied to specially planned outd

OUTDOOR COOKERY FOR CROWDS

meals give just that touch which intrigues both

young and old.

The menus which follow are typical ones which
have been used successfully:

I

Tomato juice cocktail

Barbecued chicken with
sauce

Buttered buns

Pickles, radishes

Fresh fruit and cookies

Beverages

II
Broiled steak ,
Barbecue sauce
Buttered buns .
Whole tomato
Potato chips
Candied apples

Beverages
III
Broiled wieners and buns

Chopped cabbage and car-
rot salad
Mustard and tomato sauces
Taffy kabobs
Beverages
IV
Frizzled beef on potatoes
boiled in jackets
ChOpped spring salad
Some mores
Beverages
|

V
Bean hole beans

Brown bread sandwiches
Cole slaw
Dill pickles
Fresh fruit and ginger snaps
Beverages
VI'

Bacon, tomato, and lettuce

sandwiches
Pickles
Dixie cups
Chocolate milk

Breakfast No. 1

Oranges
Scrambled eggs with chop-

ped bacon
Toast or hard rolls
Marmalade

Coffee
Breakfast No. 2
Stewed fruit
F lapjacks and syrup and
bacon
Cocoa
Breakfast N o. 3
Grapefruit juice
French toast and honey-
butter

Canadian bacon
Coffee

Successful cookery for large groups demands
I systematic planning and organization, and perhaps
one of the best things about it is that it calls for

lthe working to-
gether of groups of
people. If the event
is to be for social
purposes only and
there is no special
“education” to be
concerned about,
the task is compara-
tively easy, as all
eat the same food
lat the same place.
All details are han-
ldled by committees
' on transportation
(if necessary),
equipment, food
(buying and prepa-
ration), iire, serv-

269

ing, and clean-up. Cafeteria style is usually the best
for distributing eating utensils and also the food.
The eating equipment is placed in proper order for
convenient use, i.e., the plates first, cups, utensils,
and paper napkins. If buns are to be used to hold
meat, they are placed first on the food serving
table, and so on. The hot foods should be brought
to the servers (who, of course, stand on the op-
posite side of the table from the line of guests) and
to the carvers in small quantities by “carriers”
from the fire, so that the foods are always hot
when served. Barbecue sauce can be kept hot by
serving it from a double boiler with hot water in
the bottom utensil. The clean-up committee has
to make provision for cartons in which each in-

dividual can dispose of food remnants and paper
containers, and they are also responsible for wash-
ing and cleaning up. This can also be done cafe-

teria style by each guest, proceeding from a pan
of soapy water to hot rinsing water, and then,
after the drying process, replacing the clean equip-
ment where it was obtained.

Guests usually get great fun out of the follow-
ing control for second, third, and fourth servings.
In dealing with children we found that those at the
head of the line ate as quickly as possible so as to
get back promptly in line for seconds. Experts in
this game were back in line before the servers had
finished with the end of the first-liners. So we re-
organized a bit and everybody, including the cooks
and servers, had one generous helping. Then the
whistle would blow for seconds and so on until the

 

Courtesy Journal of Health and Physical Education

270 OUTDOOR COOKER)" FOR CROWDS

food was gone and everybody pleasantly uncom-
fortable.

There is another scheme which permits each
member to participate actively in the cooking, thus
greatly enhancing not only the pleasure but also
the educational benefits to be derived from a meal
in the open. In this plan the whole group is split
up into autonomous small groups of from six to
ten, each with a leader and an assistant. Each
group then goes about the getting of the meals as
if it were miles away from the others. Preferably,
in order to furnish the optimum of diversification,
each group should have an entirely different menu
and this is easily accomplished up to eight to ten
groups, which would take care of eighty to one
hundred people. But for a number over that it
would be better, probably, to have four or five
standard main dishes to be divided among the
groups and bring in the diversity by the types of
fires and methods of cookery, and by giving each
group the opportunity to choose some special dish
or cook some dish in a way entirely different from
any other group.

In this way, there piles up a multiplicity of in-
genious methods which can be observed by mem-
bers of all the groups as they stroll around in
between their own duties of getting the meal and
eating it. Each member of each group, therefore,
shares vicariously and enthusiastically in the suc-
cessful, or perhaps unsuccessful, experience of each
other group.

Such an event is not too difficult to manage, but
it must be admitted that when one hundred fifty to
three or four hundred are to be handled, there has
to be a master mind behind the venture, supported
by some half-dozen able and energetic workers,
plus one experienced leader for each group and an
assistant not unversed in outdoor cooking lore.
As for the “herd,” they need not necessarily have
been even on a civilized picnic. All hands should
be mustered out and good fellowship and enthusi-
astic interest are always evident and a good time
is inevitably had by all.

Briefly, the organization is as follows: the per-
son in charge meets with his special assistants and
all group leaders and their assistants. Details con-
cerning all phases of the event are carefully gone
over, and general directions given, including the
way to organize the individual group so as to
divide the duties of fire building and maintenance,
getting supplies, cooking and serving the food,
cleaning up, and returning equipment and leftover
food (hardly a problem). In very large groups

where leaders do not have access to standard out-‘
door cooking books, it is wise to give each leader
a typed sheet containing menus, plans, and recipes.
The best way, however, to arrange for the dis-
semination of information is to have typed or
mimeographed a master plan, with menus and
fires, etc., for each group indicated, plus all reci
to be used by all groups, and other pertinent in-
formation.
After the menus are decided on, the total foo
list must be worked out by the master mind an '
assistants, and a list made of all cooking, indi
vidual eating, and other equipment to be neede
by all the groups. Responsibility for each of the
two major items is given to several of the speci
assistants. In cases where transportation is nece
sary from the camp or school base to the camp sit
that responsibility is also assigned, both for tl
people and the supplies. If a special wood suppl
(in the rough, not ready-made for tenderfeet
must be brought in, that responsibility is al
delegated. Hence, there are always two main con
mittees, food and equipment, plus such spec'
ones as mentioned above.
So now the stage is set. Food and equipmel
and all supplies and stores are ready and arrange
each at its own station. The leaders come early
choose sites for their groups. These sites, by t
way, should not be too close together as the sm
from other fires too close by is annoying and t
group feels more like a unit if properly separat
from the others. In camps of children or in smal
groups it is wise to divide the guests up arbitrar
and post the groups where the list is easily acc
sible. However, in large and homogeneous gro
where the leaders may not be known to all, tl .
is a very simple way of distributing the cm
If, for instance, each group is to consist of e'
people (the leader, the assistant, and six othe
six slips are made for each group with just
group number on the slip. As the “herd”
proaches, one person gives to each as they r
by a slip with a group number. The person
enters the arena, so to speak, and seeks his gr
which is designated by a tall, split stick with
number of the group prominently displayed.
person giving out the slips should do it in ro ‘
fashion, giving out all the slips for each gr
starting with number one, before going on to
next. In this way, the groups are made up
order and the leaders can start things going r'
off with no gaps in the ranks. And, also, at .
given moment it can be easily ascertained h

    
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

l

OUTDOOR COOKERY FOR CROWDS 271

many guests have come and how many are still
en route.

Now the author believes it the best idea to have
the “guests” do the work, not just to sit around
and admire the dexterity and wonderful skill of
the group leader. Matters should proceed exactly
as they would with a group of campers. The wise
leader will have the group sit down comfortably
and go over all plans with them, arranging the
distribution of duties. \Vhile the fire makers are
preparing the fire site, fuel, and devices, the cooks
will have figured out the food requirements and
have gone first to get the cooking equipment at
that station, thence to the food station with their
lists, taking with them the equipment which will
hold the supplies. And so it all works out, and
everybody is happy and busy and thrilled, includ-
ing the master mind and his assistants. As indi-
cated, each group eats by itself but guests should
be reminded to “circulate” and see what all the
groups are doing. The master mind, by the way,
circulates freely from group to group, keeping an
eye on everybody and everything and giving sug—
gestions and actual help where it is needed.

The equipment necessary to swing such an
event is sometimes a problem. Each group must
have a sharp knife to prepare the tinder and a
proper camp axe or hatchet, in sheath, with head
firmly on, and a chopping block of some kind. Use
of sharp-edged tools must be very carefully watched
and supervised by the group leader so that therk
are no casualties. Makeshift kettles have been
mentionedabove. Tin cups and spoons, and paper
or cheap tin plates do for individual service, if
individual mess kits or a large supply of eating
utensils are not available. Wherever possible
menus should stress dishes cooked without uten-
sils, and eaten without eating utensils.

Every conceivable, practical method of cookery
should be utilized. But in planning, these four
things should always be kept in mind: the time
element, the cost, equipment limitations, experience
and capabilities of the group. And there should
always be the practical, sensible approach, for it is
only good psychology to make plans which each
group can work out successfully so that they go
away pleased with themselves and enthusiastic
over what they accomplished and over the pros-
pects of further outdoor adventures of their own.
It is truly amazing what an eye—opener such a
demonstration can be to the uninitiated.

Suggested methods of cooking to be used are:

reflector (makeshift, if necessary) and Dutch oven;
cooking biscuits by the pie-plate method, one in—
verted over the other; cooking on a stick, on a
Spit, over a trench and grill fire ; in ashes; using
various devices such as lug-pole, dingle stick, etc.;
and using various simple cooking fires such as
reflector, hunter—trapper’s, trench, and back-log.

If the event is to be still more educational and if
time allows, a demonstration or exhibit of various
types of fires, devices, and other camp tricks can
be set up in advance for the group to examine.
Each separate item of such an exhibit should have
before it a card explaining briefly the salient points
and indicating uses, good and bad points, and other
necessary information. This information may be
typed on a 3 x 5 card and thumb—tacked to a green
stick of convenient height planted in front of each
exhibit.

The following books contain definite information
that will be valuable to physical directors who need
to enlarge their knowledge of outdoor cooking with
special reference to methods and ideas and dishes
for large groups. The books are listed in the order
in which the author thinks they would prove to be
the most useful:

Outdoor Cooking, Cora Rose and Bob Brown (New
York: Greystone Press, 1940) $2.50. 0

Cook it Outdoors, James Beard (New York: M. Bar-
rows & Company, 286 Fifth Avenue, 1941) $1.75.

Sunset Barbecue Book, Sanderson and Rich (published
by The Sunset Magazine, San Francisco, 1938) $1.00;
pages 59—62.

Jack-knife Cookery, J. A. Wilder (New York: E. P.
Dutton, 1929) $2.00; pages 148—154.

Special pamphlets and books on outdoor cooking are
available at local headquarters of the Boy and Girl Scouts.

Other articles by the author which may prove useful
are found in the following numbers of The Camping
Magazine: June, 1936; March, April, May, and June,
1938; May 1941.

NOTE: Two chapters of The Picnic Book, prepared
for the National Recreation Association by Clark Fred-
rikson, will be of special interest to groups who enjoy
outdoor cooking. One of them, entitled “Food and Its
Preparation,” describes a convenient picnic hamper,
offers practical suggestions for the planning and prepara-
tion of food for outdoor parties, and gives a number of
menus for various occasions. The other chapter having
to do with food, “Fires and Fireplaces,” tells how to
make the different kinds of fires needed for the types of
cooking to be done. Suggestions are offered for the con—
struction of simple fireplaces. Copies of The Picnic Book,
published by A. S. Barnes and Company, may be secured
from the National Recreation Association. Price, $1.25.

What They Say About Recreation

[1 ECREATION is what we do voluntarily for our
R own enjoyment and satisfaction. For some,
recreation will be active; for others, pas-
sive. . . . Regardless of the type of activity or the
manner of participation, the fundamental outcome
of recreation is enjoyment.” -— From Health in
Schools, Yearbook of the American Association of
School Administrators.

“President Roosevelt has declared that baseball
belongs in the wartime economy. So do trails.
\Vithout intervals of rest fence rails sag; even
metals tire. Now and then fiesh and blood must
relax or snap.”—From N ew England Trails.

“Sometimes I think that the manner in which
people do things is more important than what they
do. The things people do fade away, but the spirit
and manner in which they do them become a part
of the fabric of human life.”—Arthur E. Morgan.

“Sound bodies are important to the defense of
the nation. That is as true of our industrial work-
ers as of our boys behind the guns. The man at
the machine needs tuning up periodically the same
as the machine he operates.”—Dr. Thomas Parran.

“We have advanced far enough to say that de-
mocracy is a way of life. We have yet to realize
that it is a way of personal life and one which
provides a moral standard for personal conduct.”
-—John Dewey.

“Land is more essential to park and recreational
development than to many other types of public
works; therefore, some consideration might well
be given to land acquisition even during this
emergency period.”—Harold L. Ickes.

“The work of the real leader includes two very
definite things: to develop his own talents in the
largest way for efi'ective service, and to find and
develop as many as he can from the group who
will in time be of service in the home, the school,
church, neighborhood or community.”

“Recreation is not one of the non-essentials that
we can dispense with during wartime. The ‘pur-
suit of happiness’ is an inalienable right. The
American people need recreation, and they need it
now, as a part of the war effort.”—Paul V. M cN ntt.

272

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
   
  
    
 
 
 
  

“New interests are vital. Hobbies have multi-
tudinous possibilities. The real satisfaction in life
comes as one reaches out and acquires a discrimi-
nating appreciation for that which is fine, that
which is real, and that which is beautiful.”—Emil
F. Kronquist in Art [Metalwork

“It is not time we lack but leisure. Leisure is
unhurried, pleasurable living among one’s natural
enthusiasms.”—Dr. Edgar Farmer.

“It is has been said that youth needs a chance
to play, to create, to think, and to pray. It needs
all four if it is too see life steadily and to see it as

a whole."—M rs. William J. Macauley in The Call
to Youth. '

“Not all of art is acted on the stage or hung in
the museums—not even the best of it. For what
is a great picture in comparison with one man who
has made something of himself? A picture is a
finished job. But a man who is making, or trying
to make, an art of living has infinite possibilities.”
-—Broolas Atkinson in Think, March 1942.

“The supreme challenge to our nation is that
this generation of so-called civilized people should
have the will to live together unselfisth in peace,

in kindness _and in brotherhood.”—Arna#d C.
Marks in Think, November 1941. '

“A race preserves its vigor,” wrote Whitehea
“so long as it is nerved by this vigor to advent
beyond the safeties of the past. Without su
spirit of adventure civilization is in full decay.”

“May we hope to perpetuate near our comr
nity, where we have our everyday homes, a l'
of the original earth’s surface on which some
us can find simplicity and joy? \Ve may thus
mit an American tradition to take root again

side the columbine, the elm, and the pine.”—Ol
M nrz'e.

“If we are to preserve the essential values
our way of life as clarified and renewed thro
the free creative exercise of our art skills, we m
begin by finding ways by which these art sk'
may be mantained in our communities."—Fra%
lin Delano Roosevelt.

"All the PeoPIe"

HEN THE Mayor of An-

derson, Indiana, charged

a committee on recrea—
tion with providing a recrea-
tion program for “all the peo-
ple,” the order was taken seri-
ously. “All the people” did not
mean only those who played
baseball but it did include
them. It didn’t mean only those
who wanted a place for quiet
family picnics, but it meant not to forget them.
And so on through the long list of possible
activities.

All this happened several years ago at a time
when a community recreation program was de-
veloped to coordinate the existing park activities of
other years, the work being carried on through
\V PA, and those parts of private operations which
overflowed into the public playgrounds. Nor did
it end with these. It made it a definite part of its
work to see just where the new body c0uld offer
cooperation with groups outside the public bounds.

All in all, the program be-
came cooperative. It counted
participation as a matter of
course but did not worry about

By EDWARD J. RONSHEIN
Director of Recreation
AndersonI Indiana

For "all the people"-—-—no+ only the
baseball players and picnickers. but
the people who want to participate
in music, drama, and activities of
all kinds. This is the objective of

community recreation in Anderson.

These children, who range in age from
six to six+een years, have been chosen
from groups organized in six schools to
take part in special music programs

it. It was just as satisfied to step
out of some field it had opened
and turn it over to any other
group which would take charge
of the work as long as it was
well done. Why not? Didn’t
this permit the opening of yet
other fields? It did.

And one of these new fields
was in the realm of music. Oh,
yes, Anderson had had a band
in its park set-up for many years with concerts at
one or the other of its open air spots every week,
each drawing thousands. But even the band was
different. It saw to it that each concert gave some
young player a chance to perform—this as an
incentive to better work. I

When the program was first announced, many
were the calls to the recreation oflice asking why.
Perhaps this was to be expected in a city, an in-
dustrial city at that, which had a nationally famous
high school choral organization, both girl and boy
glee clubs, some form of special singing groups in
every grade building, the high
school band and orchestra,
junior high orchestra training,

(Continued on page 314)

 

Fencing Hints for Recreation Leaders

excrxc is a sport which
has great natural appeal
to ordinary young-
sters. The name, fencing, im-
plies the most romantic and
chivalrous ideas to them. The
swashbuckling and sabre-
slashing as portrayed by Errol
Flynn, duelling for one’s life,
honor, and love, the care-free '
attitude personified by the
Three Musketeers, and all of
the characteristics surrounding the word “fenc-
ing” draw youngsters by the scores. Who hasn’t
seen children playing in the streets with crudely-
fashioned wooden swords? They, unwittingly, are
attempting to emulate the colossal duels and battles
they have seen on the screen or read in stories.
To these youngsters, fencing is still part of that
romantic century, and they must gradually be
brought to realize that fencing today is merely a
sport. Though fencing is simply a sport now, it
continues to foster many of the old romantic char-
acteristics of duelling, but with a modern approach.
Let’s look at fencing, as a sport, and study its
fundamentals as a guide for recreation leaders and
all those interested in the game itself. ‘

The Three Weapons

The term fencing encompasses the use of three
weapons: the foil, the epee or"due_l_ling sword, and
the sabre. The foil wasl‘devised 'during the ro-
mantic era for practice‘purposes. It became,the
fundamental weapon to be learned before proceed-
ing on to the knowledge and technique in the use
of the duelling sword and the sabre. As a result,
this pattern of teaching fencing is still widely in
use today. All beginners are, therefore, taught foil
fencing first. They may then choose either of the
other weapons as they wish.

The Foil. The foil consists of four distinct parts:
blade, guard or bell, handle, and pommel. (I)
The blade is quadrilaterally shaped (either rec-
tangular or square cross section) and tapers to a
blunt point. The standard length of the blade is
35 inches from the guard of the weapon to the
blunt point. The blade, most often, is very fiexi-
ble. (2) The guard, or bell, which serves to

274

By MAXWELL R. GARRE'I‘
Formerly Varsity Fencing Coach
University of Illinois

In the October l94| issue of Recreation
there appeared an article by Mr. Garret
under the title, "Fencing a_s Recreation."
Since the publication of the article so
many inquiries on various phases of
fencing have reached Mr. Garret that
he has prepared this material, which
answers some of the questions raised.

protect the hand, need not.
circular in shape. It may .
round, oval, quadrilateral, .
of a figure eight type. .
guard, however, shall not
ceed a maximum diameter {
4.724 inches. (3) The hand
generally made of wood an
usually 6 inches in length, i
slightly curved to conform t
the shape of the hand. (4
The pommel serves to h
the various parts of the foil together and as
counter-weight to the blade.

The Epee. The epee, or duelling sword, t
youngest of the three modern fencing wea
(only about 50 years old), greatly resembles t
foil, the primary differences being in the gua
and in the blade. The guard is‘larger than t
foil’s. The diameter of the epee bell guard cann
exceed five and one-fourth inches. The epee bl s
is heavier, less fiexible and triangular in sha
Due to the possibility of the epee blade slipp'
off the target because of the rigidity of the bl .
a small three-pronged metal piece, known as
pointe d’arret, is attached to the end of the bla
In competition and in tournaments a red, gel '
ous compound is placed between the three pr
to assist the officials in watching for and loc '
the touches. Since the epee is larger and heav'
its maximum weight greatly exceeds the maxi r
weight of a foil. The weight of the former c—a
exceed 27%; ounces while the latter cannot ex
17% ounces. However, an electrical appa .
has recently been introduced which eliminates
use of the red fluid and greatly facilitates the
ficiating of these bouts.

The Sabre. Sabre fencing is the most spectac
and exciting of the three. While touches in
and epee may be made only by thrusts, i.e.,

touching the opponent with the point of the n ‘
thrusts and cuts may be made in sabre. The u
may be made with the “cutting edge” of the b
or by the first one-third of the back edge of
blade. The blade has a T or Y cross section. 3
sabre guards have many variations, but the :-
shaped ones are the most popular. In contrast

 
  
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   

FENCING HINTS FOR RECREATION LEADERS 275

 

The author demonstrates the lunge position

the other weapons, the weight of the sabre never
exceeds eighteen ounces.

The valid target for sabre fencing differs from
foil and epee fencing. In sabre fencing the valid
target includes everything above the hips. In foil
fencing everything above the
hips, including the groin area

ut excluding the head and

rms, is good target. The en-

ire body, i.e., from the toes to

he t0p of one’s head, is good
epee fencing.

In a foil or a sabre bout five

uches (cuts or thrusts in sabre and only thrusts

foil) are needed to achieve a victory. To win
' n epee bout one touch was formerly sufficient, but

e rules have been changed in recent years and

ow three touches are required for a victory.

Comparison of the Weapons

The Weapon which is most often seen on the
Silver Screen” is the sabre. The reason for por-
aying this weapon rather than the other weapons

primarily because of the way ith used. Ac-
rding to the description given in this-article, on

toring a touch in sabre, by use of the point or the
“cutting edge,” the reason can be clearly seen why
this weapon is chosen in preference to the other

l'lt's fun to fence when you're able
to fence for fun." says the authorl
and he suggests we look at fencing
as a sport and study its fundamen-
tals as a guide for recreation lead-
ers and all interested in the game.

two. There is more glamor, more action and more
“bloody” movements coming into play in sabre
fencing. Not only does it appeal to the ordinary
spectator from this point of view, but every blow
that lands on the fencer is felt not only by the
fencer but also by the spectator. The welts which
are generally left on a sabreman’s body are welts
which are vicariously “felt” by the spectator. It
thus becomes the most popular of the three
weapons. Nevertheless, foil and epee fencing at—
tract their own following and the speed with
which these weapons are used is quite comparable
to sabre fencing. With electrical setups being de-
vised for both epee and foil fencing, the speed in
running off contests in these weapons will un-
doubtedly surpass that of sabre bouts.

Positions and Movements

Gripping the Weapon. The weapon is held by
the thumb and the forefinger, with the latter about
one-fourth inch from the guard and the former
about one-half inch from the
guard. The thumb lies along
the convex_side while the fore-
finger supports the weapon
from the underneath part of
the handle. The handle is then
allowed to fall along the groove
in the palm of the hand, and
the rest of the fingers then close lightly about the
handle. The thumb and the forefinger control the
movements of the weapon while the other fingers
give strength to the grip.

The "On Guard" Position. In learning and teach-
ing the “on guard”.position and the lunge, it is

This shows the "on-guard" position for all
three weapons. The three stancesI reading
from left to right. are the epee or duelling
swordI the foilI and the sabre stance.
[The sabreman is on guard left-handed.)

 

276 FENCING HINTS FOR RECREATION LEADERS I

just as cosy to 1mm and tcoch it corrcctly as in-
corrcctly. Since these fundamentals are of basic
importance to the game, let us earnestly try to
learn and teach them correctly.

First, place your heels together having your feet
form a right angle. Now separate your feet by
moving your front foot forward about one and one-
half the length of your own foot, but still main-
taining the right angle. From this position go into
a half knee-bend position, i.e., let your knees bend
permitting your torso to be lowered toward the
fioor. However, it is important for the present
that the weight of the body be equally distributed
on both feet with the torso erect and perpendicular
to the door. The leg in front should be perpen-
dicular to the floor with the knee directly over the
instep, and the knee of the other leg directly over
the toes of that foot. The front arm, i.e., the hand
which will be gripping the weapon, should be bent,
with the elbow about six inches away from the
hipbone. In foil fencing the point of the weapon
is kept at approximately the Opponent’s eyes with
the forearm tilted upwards, too. In sabre and epee
fencing the forearm is parallel to the floor. How-
ever, the point of the sabre is directed upwards to-
ward the Opponent’s eyes, while the entire blade
of the epee is kept parallel to the fioor. The other
arm, in foil and epee fencing, is brought up in be-
hind the body for better balance, and to assist in
lunging and in recovering. This arm forms part
of a square, i.e., the upper arm is parallel to the
fioor, the forearm forms a right angle with the
upper arm, and the hand is permitted to dangle
loosely. This loose hand assists immensely in get-
ting the body to relax, and there is no question of
the importance of relaxation in athletics. In sabre
fencing the hand in the rear is placed on the hip
to prevent injury to that hand from the cutting
movements used by this weapon. The entire posi-
tion thus described is the “on guard position.”

The Fundamental Attack—The Lunge. All move-
ments in fencing are accomplished from the “on
guard” position. In lunging toward an opponent,
the thrusting arm is extended first, the entire arm
being shoulder high. The weapon also is shoulder
high, but tilted slightly downward with the point
a trifle below the level of the arm. The arm should
be completely extended and relaxed, but not
stretched to the point where the elbow joint is
“locked” and the shoulder muscles tightened up.

Start the lunge by lifting the toes and moving the
front foot straight forward, landing on the heel

first. \Vhen this front foot starts its motion for‘
ward, the back leg cooperates with it by straighten-1
ing the knee with a snap and keeping the sole 0
the rear foot fiat on the floor and stationary a!
much as possible. At the same time the rear am
is straightened and lowered to a position paralle
t0 the rear thigh, with the palm of that hand facii r
upward. To check on one’s efiiciency in lunging
keep these points in mind, and make sure the fron
knee is perpendicular to the instep with the leg ii
front moved as far forward as possible and the body
though leaning slightly forward from the hip, sti
maintaining a fairly erect position. In returning t
the “on guard” position from a lunge, the leg i
back bends at the knee and pulls, and the fron
leg pushes the body back to the “on guard” stanc
The arms, simultaneously, return to their origin
position.

 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
   

Deve10ping in a boy or a girl balance, coordin
tion, speed, timing, agility, and alertness for fen
ing is a long and difiicult job. Unless the teach
and student have the patience to teach and pra
tice the fundamentals mentioned—the “on guar
and “the lunge”—- until they are done to ports
tion and done unconsciously without thinking,
will be useless to go ahead with more advanc
work in fencing. The only way to learn to 1111 '
correctly is by pure hard work—practicing it u.
and night. But there is no finer feeling in athlet'
or in any other field of endeavor than the feel'
that comes with success. And this eventu
comes to those who sincerely put heart and
into accomplishing whatever they have set t
minds to do.

“Fencing requires the meticulous attenti
technique that characterizes golf; the exp
energy of the sprint runner; the split-secon
cisions of the,tennis player and boxer; and
all and before all. it requires for its fullest a
ment a power of analysis that is not equa
any other game in the athletic group. . . .
is this final attribute that charms and ho
devotees. After the passing of the SUper
dant physical energy of youth which requires
outlet, even after the passing of that period
hard training will bring back speed and endt
there remains the fascination of the game,
cunning of head and skill of hand may more
balance the physical superiority of younger b
skilled heads.”— From Sword Play by Sc
Brcclcinridgc and Scott D. Brockinridgc, Jr.

Battle Creek Meets the Challenge

wo YEARS AGO when

Congress voted to

transform the military
reservation to the west of
Battle Creek, Michigan, into
a full-Hedged army post to
be known as Fort Custer,
the city had a normal well-
balanced “diet” of indoor
and outdoor sports for its
men, women, and children. Soon, however, regu-
lar army units were dispatched to the new fort to
replace the skeleton maintenance units of the
former Camp Custer. Within a few months men
from the first draft began to arrive. Living quar-
ters sprang up here and there. Overnight a city
of 4,000 rose on the site of the fort, which soon
became known as the home of the 5th Division.
But the men were without permanent quarters and
had no recreation facilities whatever.
' Impelled by the needs of army men and defense
industry workers and possessed of facilities readily
adapted to expansion, Battle
Creek’s Department of Civic
Recreation has utilized every
inch of available space and
resources, enlisted the ser-

What happens when a city goes all
the way in serving men in uniform?
Battle Creek gives you the answer.

By ARCH FLANNERY

Director of Civic Recreation
Battle Creek. Michigan

Dedicated to the youth of Battle Creek
by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation. and
operated under subsidy by the Department

vices of a corps of volunteer
workers to supplement the
regular stafi‘, extended its
schedule from a 12-hour to
an 18-hour day for seven
days a week instead of six,
and has enlarged its pro-
gram to fit the needs and
- expressed desires of mili—
tary men and defense in-
dustry workers in an effort to provide a well-
rounded recreation program for them.

The city’s first overture to its new fort clientele
was to put all city recreation facilities at their dis-
posal. The soldiers, in turn, showed their appre-
ciation by whole-hearted participation in Battle
Creek’s civic leisure-time program. Next, the city
established a soldiers’ recreation center and meet-
ing place in downtown Battle Creek, which served
until almost a year later when United Ser-
vice Organizations buildings were erected and
ready for operation, This soldiers’ club, with ac-
commodations for approxi-
mater 600 men at one time,
was equipped with indoor
shufileboard courts, two

of Civic Recreation. this $l75.000 build- music rooms, each with
ing is the center of the city's recreation

 

277

278 BATTLE CREEK MEETS THE CHALLENGE

 

radio and piano, reading and writing rooms, well-
stocked library, table tennis room, card rooms,
pool and billiard tables, lounging rooms, and at-
tractive reception room. Many thousand soldiers
and their families made use of the club during the
months it was open.

Social recreation was another. part of Battle
Creek’s program until the USO. took over. It
was no small task to plan entertainment that would
be enjoyed by mixed groups of strangershbutgthe
Department of Civic. Recreation'jconducted ’more
than 100 such. social programs 'for' more than
12,000 men and wpmen,‘without a‘single untoward
incident. "i  + '

First step in planning the social program was,
the appointment _of"an experienced social secre-
tary,~ who “enrolled, through the various social
agencies of 'the community, hundreds of girls to
serve as hostesses and partners at the social gath-
erings. The majority of these events were dances,
held .for the” most part in school gymnasiums, for
both the white and. Negro soldiers quartered at
Fort Custer. Usually music was provided by
\N'PA orchestras and bands. Other forms of social
recreation were open forum meetings, musicales,
and evenings given over'to games. Special events
included variety shows, quiz programs, and radio-
audition contests.‘ ” '

Music,-ar't, craft, and dramatic departments in

pinochle, with prizes for winning players and
- teams. " 1.

One of the most
keenly appre-
ciated services of
the Civic Recre-
ation Department
is its preschool
p l a y c e n t e r

   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  

the civic recreation setup opened their doors to
the soldiers and war industry workers. Special
classes were created to meet their particular inter-
ests, choral groups organized, and dramatic skits
presented, with the men and women providing the
talent as well as the audiences.

Still another activity was the art department at
Fort Custer for which Battle Creek purchased
several hundred dollars worth of material. Lead-
ership in thisnovel plan of “taking rec'reatiOn to
the men,” was provided by the WPA. The art
project’s first exhibit included works by many. na-
tionally known artists, most of them serving. as
privates in Uncle Sam’s new army. Its original
display was at the fort and, subsequently, it had
showings in both Detroit and Chicago with same
of the pieces going on to New York for cxhibiticn.

Other phases of recreation for the exclusive
benefit of Fort Cu'ster soldiers included weekly
ballroom and square dancing instruction at the
hostess houses on the military reservation, s
festivals, and choral classes. The number of danc-
ing students ranged from thirty to I50; chora-l
groups frequently numbered as many as 600. Card
tournaments, also conducted by Department lead-
ers at the hostess hoUses, included both bridge and

But 'Battle Creek did not attempt to organize a

BATTLE CREEK MEETS THE CHALLENGE

recreation program exclusively for the soldiers.
In baseball and softball, ‘arrn’y teams were fitted
into the civic recreation leagues. Where the army
units were numerically too strong, leagues com-
posed entirely of them were formed, but_the whole
became part of the-civic program. The same held
true of basketball, table tennis, and volleyball
teams. At one time more than ninety Fort Custer
baseball teams and a proportionate number of bas-
ketball teams were part of the civic recreation pro-
gram. In addition to these, the 5th Division and
the Post units operated leagues within themselves,
but all equipment was provided by the Depart-
ment of Civic Recreation.

To meet this greater demand, Battle Creek made
available to Fort Custer men either as individuals
or as units, fifteen baseball and ten softball dia-
monds, three outdoor tracks, four football fields
and twenty tennis courts, to say nothing of twelve
playgrounds. Regular schedules for their use were
worked out through the Post and Division morale
offices. All teams used these play areas in turn,
either for practice or for games, but in most in-
stances for both.

The response, particularly from the soldiers, to
this cooperative recreation is seen in the winning
of the city title by the Fort Custer Reception Cen-
ter baseball team and of the national title in the
“Little World Series.” The Reception Center

In one corner of
the adult craft
shop. a group is
engaged in fly-
casting. one of
the activities
offered adults

n

279

teams represented the Battle Creek area because
they were outstanding'among the scores of Fort
Custer teams that participated in the civic baseball
and basketball leagues. /

For the most part, the information presented has
dealt with recreation as it pertains to men either
in the Army or in industry. To give wives,
mothers, and sweethearts of soldiers and war in-
dustry workers leisure for outside activities, a pre-
school play center under the leadership of trained
recreation workers was established for small chil—
dren. '

Recreation planned for mothers consisted of calis-
thenics, volleyball, badminton, drills, marching,
and dancing classes at convenient hours with the
“Streamlined W oman” as the objective. Swimming
classes, softball and basketball teams for women
were organized. Those not interested in such active
sports could choose nature study, crafts, music,
dramatics, or picnicking. There were classes for
ballroom and square dance instruction. Hiking in
summer and ice skating in winter were popular.
Days of drudgery and long winter evenings were
transformed from boring, lonesome hours at home
to periods of mental and physical relaxation with
new-found friends.

Next a suburban housing project was built to
serve the non-commissioned officers and their

( C ontimwd on page 311)

 

"At Home" on Staten lsland

x FEBRUARY 15.
1941. the Staten
Island Center for

Active Service Men
dedicated its new head-

Staten Island folks have succeeded in
putting the comfort, informality and
geniality of home into the center for
sailors, soldiers, and coast guardsmen

bowling alleys, showers,

and lockers on the main
Hoor. On the second
floor there are a social
hall or ball room with

quarters with a program
of entertainment and
dancing. A rather large
family—500 persons in
all—members of the Center Cominittees and Junio‘r
Auxiliary, mothers and sisters, fathers and broth-
ers, officials and civic leaders were present at the
house warming, which the guests found very much
to their liking.

After speeches by Committee members and of-
ficials, the floor was cleared of chairs by husky
coast guardsmen, and dancing followed to the
music of the Ellis Island Coast Guard Band. Many
of the service men and visitors were taken on a
tour of the Center by the hostesses, who pointed
out the bowling alleys, billiard and game rooms,
and the newly decorated social halls. After this
refreshments were served.

The Staten Island Center for Active Service
Men, one of the first to be founded, is providing
the sailors, soldiers, and coast guardsmen sta-
tioned in the Borough with a homelike center
to which they may go with assurance of a hearty
welcome. There are no “Don’t” signs on the
wall, and the staff, both volunteer and profes-
sional, make the service man feel at home when
he opens the door and enters the large, cheer-
ful, homelike lounge and writing room with
its panelled walls of knotty pine and its bright
fireplace. Each man as he enters receives a
warm greeting from the hostess at the desk near
the door, and cigarettes,
candy, and chewing gum are
placed on the desk and
tables for him. The men
deeply appreciate this in-
formal, friendly approach.

Facilities
The Center is a large
threeestory building with
lounge, writing room, game
room, library, craft room,

280

By ELOISE FERRIER

The Staten Island Center for Active Ser-
vice Men was organized on March I9, I942.
Quarters were opened where the Center
successfully functioned for several months
under the leadership of volunteers. Space
was soon at a premium, however. and an
appeal for increased funds for an enlarged
program was made to the New Yorlt City
Defense Recreation Committee of which
Marshall Field is chairman. Favorable action
resulted, and by fall larger quarters were
opened at 730 Van Duzer Street. Stapleton.

stage, a check room, the
very popular kitchen
and dining room, and
the office. On the top
fioor there are an additional social hall, ball-
room and magazine rooms. A long veranda with
doors leading to it from the hall room on the sec-
ond floor overlooks the large summer kitchen and
recreation grounds, and is the finest kind of place
for wiener roasts and horseshoe pitching in the
summer.

The Center is open from nine in the morning
until midnight every day. Practically every con-
ceivable recreation facility is offered to the men of
the armed services of the United States and visit-
ing allies. Recreation at the Center is informal.
The man on leave is not regimented. He chooses
his own method of relaxation; he may play games,
read a magazine, dance in the ballroom, writ‘e let-

ters home, or just rest.

There is a piano in the library and game room
on the first'floor where almost every evening
gathers a group which enjoys singing—popu-
lar music and old-time melodies. There they lift
their voices to the tunes of “Home on the Range,”
“Hail, Hail, the Gang’s All Here,” “I’ve Been
\Vorking on the Railroad,” and other songs popu-
lar with service men.

Music and dancing are perhaps the favorite
forms of recreation with modern army groups, and
the Center caters to this. Men on leave want to
meet nice girls in home-like
surroundings, and so the
committee has placed a great
deal of emphasis on the
promotion of dances and
parties. Music is provided
by the juke box or small in-
formal orchestras, and some-
times by the Ellis Island
Coast Guard Band. Attend-
ance is free at all times.

Through the dances and

“AT HOME” ON STATEN ISLAND 281

parties, the men coming to the Center have become
acquaintedwith the other services, facilities, and
programs which the Center has to offer. Dancing
lessons, community sings, roller skating parties,
homemade pie night, moving pictures, table tennis,
bowling tournaments, and many other events keep
the Center very much alive. Sunday evening
usually brings an hour of music, church services,
or some other special event in addition to the
regular program.

Information on eating places with reduced rates
for service men and rooming houses has been
compiled. Churches are cooperating and the vari-
ous civic organi-
zations help by ' ~~   
supplying refresh- ' 
m e nt 5 f o r t h e
nightly crowds.
During the last
part of the month,
when nickels and
dimes are not
plentiful and there
are still several
days before the
service man stands
in the company
pay line, the
crowds are very
large.

The people of
the Borough have
made available
throughithe book
drive hundreds of
books and the lat-
est and most popular reading materials. Donations
of magazines, sheet music, and newspapers have
'been received from residents of the community.

In spite of the fact that the sailor and soldiers
enjoy one another, there are times, as is natural
enough, when the sailors show an inclination to
stay together in their games, while the soldiers
form their own groups for a bowling match or a
billiards game. It is not unusual to find a group
of soldiers about the piano in the library singing
lustily, but if there is a rhumba being danced in
the ballroom, you can be pretty sure it is the Navy.

Introducing Some of the Boys

There is Allan from Minnesota, a farm boy who
never before left the farm except to go to town
occasionally to get a haircut until he joined the

Navy. He wanted to learn to bowl and to dance,
and he had never had an opportunity for it while
he was on the farm. He is natural and charming,
and now he seems to be going places.

Jim has a salty personality. A slim and genial
product of the Midwest, he hails from St. Louis.
Jim not only “gets around” in the Navy but does
very well ashore, too. His thumb once carried him
from New York to St. Louis, and it took only six
hours longer than a fast express train.

Ken is a sailor boy from Long Island. He has
kept a wall around his past, but has volunteered

 

the information that. his special hobby is the
weaker sex.

You must know our soldiers, too. Here salutes
are unknown. You just say, “Hello, what’s your
name ?"

There is Dick. You are sure that Dick is
from Virginia even before he tells you so. It is
just the way he says “Ma—am” with that soft
southern draw] to anything and everything you
say. That is, you have to say it all over again.
But you don't mind when it’s someone with such
nice manners as Dick has. He is a mechanic at a
near-by air field—a graduate of a college in
Virginia.

And Andy. He is from a near-by camp and
comes almost every night. He is more talkative.

(Continued on page 310)

For a Wartime Program

Here is a form of creative free time activity
suitable for use at many recreation centers

MEMORIAL DAY poem in free verse was pre-
A sented in May, 1942, at the Montclair (New

Jersey) High School Garden Amphitheatre
in a special program by senior English students
with the school’s a cappella choir assisting. The
poem was recited chorally with gestures and re-
sponsive chants.

written by \Villiam H. Nesbitt, son of Mr. and
Mrs. George A. Nesbitt, this poem is of special
interest to recreation workers. Mr. George A.
Nesbitt has been a worker in the National Recre-
ation Association for more than twenty-five years,
and is well known in recreation circles throughout
the country.

Montclair High School’s creative writing group,
composed of five or six students and one of the
English teachers, met about once a week on a vol-
untary, non-credit basis to discuss the work of its
members. Not a regular part of the high school
course, they met only because of mutual interest
in discussing and analyzing their own creative
work. William Nesbitt originally wrote the poem
for discussion by this group.

A special committee revised the poem particu-
larly for the Memorial Day program. About
seventy seniors took part in its preparation and
presentation.

The revised form of the poem is as follows:

This is Memorial Day, 1942.
This is the day set aside

For the remembrance of the dead
Of the past.

Listen, you specters of menl

You, struck down upon

The green at Lexington, you

\Vho saw end of day at New Orleans.

You men in tattered Grey and Blue
Who perished in the rage

Of Gettysburg

Or Chickamauga.

You, with the laughing, boyish eyes,

Who never reached the top

Of San Juan.

You, from Belleau Woods and the Marne
And the Meuse-Argonne and Chateau-Thierry.

You, newly dead, who never had a chance

At Pearl Harbor
Or Bataan
Or “’ake.

Listen!
To you we speak.

282

You men are dead.

You once were young, as we are now.
You had dreams of future, life,

Love.

And happiness.

You cared not for glory, praise.

You wanted to live,

Be free,

And not to die.

Your country, your home, your liberty—
All that you had labored to build

Was threatened, and there was need

Of men,

Men to fight

And die.

You left your plows, your homes.
You left your wives and sweethearts.
Your hopes for futures bright

Were put aside.

You went.

You fought, as men have fought before,
Bravely and well.

The price of this to you was death.
After each war, when you were dead,
The victory won,

The swords hung up anew,

You were forgotten

By the men

You saved.

Each time they forgot

That with your victory

Their job was not yet done.

Each time they forgot the things
For which you gave your lives.
Always men were too busy, occupied
In filling their pockets with gold
And their time with pleasures.

They forgot that hidden in human beings
Are prejudice, jealousy, greed.

That in every community are misunderstandings

And conflicting views.

That wars are no more

Than the outbreak of these passions
On a larger scale.

They said that you had lived in vain,

When it was they who had failed
In the task remaining to them.

They forgot that deeply rooted in the world

Were the seeds
Of hate.

Each time these seeds of hate grew, flourished.

Became an ugly, malignant growth
That filled the earth.

People who had little hated

Those who had much.

People hated others

Because they were Jews or Catholics,

Or Protestants,
Or Germans or Englishmen.

People hated—everybody.
(Continued on page 307)

 

Singing tor Victory

Do your parl: to make Victory Sings popular
everywhere in America! A song booklet and
a sheet ot seven hymns are at'your service.

" N MAY'ZOTH we held a Victory Sing in a large

0 tent on the Stevens College campus. There
were more than 2,500 seats in the tent and they were
all filled. Many were standing.

“We sang a number of songs that, are included in
your collection. The student committee in charge
decided to use as a theme the victory songs of Ameri-
cans in different times of crisis beginning with the
Revolutionary War. War songs of the Civil War,
World War I, and the present war were then sung.
Each group of songs was preceded by a radio skit
depicting the background of the period. The songs
were sung by hall groups, the chorus on the stage,
played by the orchestra, and sung by the entire
audience. '

“The Sing itself was the climax of a song leaders’
training program. Each Hall sang one song alone

under the direction of its own leader and accompanied _
by its own pianist. The groups sang from' where they'
were in the audience; the accompanists‘ played from“

pianos on the stage. Microphones picked up the ac-
' companiment so that the singers could hear it. Audi-
ence singing was led by student leaders. Script and
commentary were written 'by students.

“The stage was colorfully decorated; the lighting
very effective. Several spots were used. A Color
Guard from the University of Missouri R.O.T.C.
marched across the stage at the final climax of ‘The
Ballad for Americans’ and stood at attention while
the audience sang ‘The Star-Spangled Banner.’

“The event was very successful as a program. It
encouraged a great deal of singing in the halls and on
the campus, and a number of leaders and accompanists
received training and experience.”

Sings were held throughout the country. From
groups everywhere, from city and rural districts,
from schools, colleges, 4-H Clubs, PTA groups,
and from organizations of all kinds have come let-
ters testifying to the popularity of this collection of
songs and to their usefulness as a means of mak-
ing social singing enjoyable and inSpiring.

Rural groups are finding the song sheets help-
ful and are using them to great advantage. Miss
Ruth McIntire, Extension Specialist in Recrea-
tion, Massachusetts State College, writes:

“Sometimes we have used the songs as a ‘tour’ of
North America, choosing songs typical of various
parts of our own country, with a brief excursion
across the border for ‘Cielito Lindo,’ and another into
Canada for ‘Alouette.’ The collection makes it pos-
sible to do this, and at the same time to select an
interesting variety of songs, alternating the more
sprightly, quick tempos with the quieter, slow songs
which the audience—especially the older folks—like
to ‘lean back on.’ At other times, of course, we
choose the songs solely for themselves, with no
special program plan except variety in interest and
appeal.”

Interesting information regarding the use of the
song sheets comes from the Negro Actors‘ Guild
of America, New York City:

“The songs have been presented by our people with
orchestras in community sing groups, with the piano

and in some instances the violin accompanying. In
the different canteens set up for the soldiers -by the

Thus Arthur Todd writes of the Victory Sing
held at Stevens College. On this occasion “Let’s

actor groups these songs are also being used. Several
of the groups have reported using the songs in medley

Sing the Same Songs,” a
pamphlet issued by the Na-
tional Recreation Association
containing twenty songs with
words and music, was used.

Through the courtesy of
the Voice of Firestone 100,000
free c0pies of this booklet
were made available for dis-
tribution. Over fifty musical
organizations cooperated by
distributing copies to their
membership, and Victory

It you do not have detailed information
about the Victory Sings campaign, write
the National Recreation Association for
a copy of the tree bulletinI "It We Knew
the Same Songs." And at the .same time
order a copy of the song booklet, "Let's
Sing the Same Songs." Single copies are
available at 5 cents each; a hundred
copies cost $2.50 plus carrying charge.
You will want to have a part in this effort
to make America a singing peopleI with
all it can mean for the development of a
basic. happy unity. and strength of spirit
among us in communities everywhere.

form, and this is received en-
thusiastically.”

And now the National Rec-
reation Association has issued
a second song sheet for use in
Victory Sings. This time it
is a collection of hymns en-
titled “Seven Hymns for
Everyone — One for Each
Day of the Week.” Words
and music for the following
hymns are included:

283

284 SINGING FOR VICTORY

“Faith of Our Fathers"
“Our God. Our Help in Ages Past"
“God of Our Fathers, \Vhose Almighty Hand”
“The God of Abraham Praise"
"The Lord is My Shepherd"
"Dear Lord and Father of Mankind"
"Now the Day is Over”
These leafiets are available for 2 cents per copy;

$1.10 per hundred.

The following editorial regarding the hymns
appeared in the Schenectady, N. Y., Union-Star,
July 15th:

When the Crucial Test Comes

Foreseeing the crucial test of the nation's soul,
which is yet to come, the National Recreation Asso-
ciation has wisely produced a miniature hymual for
use at community “sings.” Composed of but seven
numbers—one for each day of the week—including
one from the Hebrew, the others from the liturgy of
the Christian Church through the ages, this small
and incredibly inexpensive publication is available for
playgrounds and general assemblages of the people.

Not yet has the iron entered the soul of the people.
Not yet have we become con-
scious of how ineffectually armed
we are spiritually. It may take
disaster worse than our armed
forces already have met to bring
us to the point of realizing that,
in the final test neither tanks, nor
guns, nor planes, nor ships will
avail us, unless the soul of the
nation is steeled to the great un-
dertaking of maintaining on earth
the God-given freedom of the human soul.

One of the hymns is that which was sung last
August somewhere on the ocean during the Atlantic
Conference between Roosevelt and Churchill when,
at divine service on the deck of the British battleship
Prince of \Vales, seamen and marines and the heads
of the two great democracies united their voices in
the stirring measures of the centuries, “Our God, Our
Help in Ages Past."

\Vhen the day arrives when the soul of the nation
needs strengthening, as it undoubtedly will while this
war drags its weary length over more months . . . the
people will do well to avail themselves of the re-crea-
tive power which the Recreation Association offers.

The Playground Department of the Public
Schools of Boston and Community Recreation
Service, Inc., are cooperating in the promotion of
a program featuring “Let’s Sing the Same Songs.”
Three hundred teachers on 162 playgrounds are
devoting part of their regular staff meetings to
becoming acquainted with the songs, and they are
having a lot of fun trying them out. The teachers
are exceptionally good singers and many show
marked ability as song leaders.

Suchlan interesting statement regard-
ing the use of "Let's Sing the Same
Songs" by children of Boston has just
reached us that we are publishing
it in the hope it will not be too late
for some of the ideas suggested to
be used in this summer's program.

The program is based on the thought that the
part music can play in the lives of children on the
playground will be beneficial and pleasurable if
participation in it is natural and spontaneous. Such
participation will come mainly through community
singing and special musical programs arising from
informal singing. A second basic principle in the
Boston plan is that if music is presented with due
consideration for the program as a whole it can
prove very helpful in building morale, in helping
to maintain emotional balance, in creating interest
in the playground, and in developing a sense of
unity and beauty.

The following suggestions have been offered
leaders on the playgrounds for the use of “Let’s
Sing the Same Songs”:

The song books, provided through the courtesy
of Community Recreation Service of Boston, may
be posted or made available in some other way on
the playground. Boys and girls may be encouraged
to copy the songs or make their own song leafiets,
and the singing of familiar
songs might be a part of the
daily program by singing a few
songs at flag raising or Hag
lowering ceremonies, or other
opening and closing times on
the playground. The songs
might well be used in connec-

tion with air raid drills.

A Week-to-Week Program

A week-to-week program, it is suggested, might
include some of the following ideas:

During the first week general songfests might
be held around sandboxes or indoors at regular
periods, or at evening performances of which music
is a part.

“Make Your Own Song Leaflet \-Veek” might
be the theme of the second week, and during this
period boys and girls could copy out both songs
and music in notebooks of their own making,
drawing pictures to illustrate the songs or decorat-
ing their collections in other ways.

A music memory contest in which songs are

played and identified might well feature the third
week.

The fourth week could be devoted to working
out dramatizations of favorite songs, such as
“\Vorking on the Railroad,” “Home on the
Range,” “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” and others.

(Continued on page 307)

 

OS ANGELES, located close to the southwestern
border of California, as well as being one of
the main Pacific ports of entry from coun-

tries to the far west, is a veritable “melting pot.”
Naturally the two hundred and fifty school play—
grounds which are under the supervision of the
Physical Education Section are miniature “melt-
ing pots.” Many of the foreign-born children
come to the-story hours and do not understand
what is being said, because of language difficulties.

In an effort to overcome this difficulty, pictures

have been shown as the story was told. This
brought out an interesting fact. Children with no
language difficulty enjoyed the illustrated stories
as much as did the for-
eign-born'child. This taste
may have been formed
by attending the movies,
where both visual and
auditory senses are ap-
pealed to. So we came to
realize that “props” can
be valuable under cer-
tain conditions, and we
began searching for some—
thing that would meet
the situation.

After many conferences

with traveling assistant

Figures modeled trom clay
travel with the suitcase
stage as it journeys from
playground to playground.
It cigar box or shoe box
stages are usedI the fig-
ures may be cut from mag-
azinesI colored. and then
mounted on cardboard.

Storytelling Steps

Onto a
~ ‘ Suitcase Stage

By DESSA M. FULTz and VERONA M. HARTER

storytellers and directors, someone suggested using
an ordinary suitcase for a little stage, with small
figures to represent the characters in the story
being told. The idea was to set the case upright
with the open lid for a foreground. It sounded
good—but it didn’t work out well. The lid, having
a depth of several inches, would not lie flat on the
table without, at the same time, tilting the rest of
the case. This difficulty, however, was soon solved
by the suggestion that if the case were set on its
side, this depth would be eliminated, and the
background would then stand firmly on the table.

Plans and specifications were drawn and sub-
mitted to Mr. C. L. Glenn, head supervisor of

 

286 STORYTELLING STEPS ONTO A SUITCASE STAGE

 

. .
o
I!

—.........._.......----.-- Q’o ---_--___.-...-. —-—-§/’_----

side.” View

Fro 111' View

the Physical Education Section; With a few
changes these were approved. Then the storytell-
ing suitcase stages were made, and while they were
in process of construction Rose Ryleman’s first
adventure of The Rainbow Cat was selected as the
story with which to start. Later the other ad-
ventures were also used.

Next came the molding of the figures. For The
Rainbow Cat the figures were: the Cat, the Prince,
the Princess, the King and the Queen of Skyland,
two figures of the giant (one sitting and one stand-
ing), and two other figures. These, and the figures
made later, were modeled with the idea of using
them not merely in this particular story but in
many others as well.

The figures were first modeled in clay, from
which plaster casts were made and colored. By
the time the figures had been completed back-
grounds for the stages were ready. These back-
grounds were painted in oils on heavy card-
board cut a little longer than the suitcase so that
they curved when pushed into place, thus giving
perspective.

When the suitcases and
“props” were ready, the trav-
eling storytelling assistants
spent long hours learning
storytelling techniques; how;
at the same time, to .bring
the character-figures onto the
the stage at the right moment ;r
and how to add side wings or
change backgrounds. 'This re-
quires perfect coordination of

J

 movement and voice so as not to

1.. from the story.

"It is not at all likely that those who con-

, ceived the idea which resulted in the little
r- "storytelling stage used in Los_ Angeles
ever dreamed that it might some day be

‘ called on to play a part in national de-
fense. But it may be. for keeping up the

' 'morale of the children of our country is
a vital-factor in the defense program.
And happiness makes for morale. Thui a
'prop' which helps a storyteller lteep a
.,group of children interested and happy-
may well be called a weapon of defense."

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   

distract the listener’s attention

At last all was ready and the
suitcase stages were taken to
widely separated sections of the
city. Their success was evident
from the first tryouts. Children
and directors were delighted. The
device not only fulfilled its initial
purpose, that of aiding children
with language difiiculty, but also
proved immensely popular with
those who had no such trouble.

Later other stories were chosen
and new backgrounds and figures
made. Side wings were used when
a story called for more than one
setting. In time we had the set-
tings for Hansel and Gretel, Jack the Giant Killer,
Robin Hood, Dutch stories, and many other tales
which have variants in almost every land and
whose characters, therefore, are recognized by
children of all nationalities.

The plaster .figures used at first were very ef-
fective, but they were also rather expensive. Un-
less made by experts, they were difiicult to con-
struct. Then, too, they were breakable. So the
experiment of cutting figures from cardboard was
tried. These cardboard figures, colored and
mounted upon small blocks of wood, proved to be
satisfactory. “Among the stories in which they have
been used are “The Indians and the Peacock,” fro
Master Simon’s Garden, by Cornelia Megg, and
“Little Pagan Beggars,” from California Fair
Tales, by Monica Shannon. The latter required four
different settings and fifteen figures. The figures
as in all stories, were placed back _of the case i
the order they would be used, thus avoiding hesi
tation or fumbling on the part of the storyteller.

All of this, however, required skill. Many
the directors felt it was to
difficult, so a simpler setu
was worked out. This devic
was the cigar box stage, which
had two big advantages. I
cost practically nothing and
the children themselves coul
make it: All they had to do
was remove the paper from a
cigar box,'.stain or shellac it,
and hinge the lid with some

(Continued on page 306)

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
Q
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I

The Day Camp and the Young Citizen

EGEND TELLS US that once
L a sacred goose saved
Rome. Perhaps in the
future it will be said that it
was the goose-step that saved
democracy. Only the tread
of invading feet in Paris,
Vienna, Praha, Athens, and
so many other cities has
awakened us from our smug—
ness. Only the dread violence
of war has brought to many
of us a realization that we
must sow democracy if we
are also to reap it, that we

must teach democracy if it is to function, that we
must live democracy if it is to be a way of life.
Democracy in the United States and Canada,
many feel, has shown weakness in training effect-
ively its young citizens. Citizenship training has
always been the objective of the schools and in
some of them considerable success has been
achieved. Camps and some local agencies and
groups have been effective in training for citizen-
ship, but for the most part little more than lip

service has been given to
these important objectives,
and few new methods of
training have been de—
veloped. There is still a
great need for more effect-
ive instruments for instilling
in every boy and girl the
tolerance, fair play, aware-
ness of society’s needs, and
willingness to serve which
.alone make for genuine dc—
mocracy.

An excellent medium for
citizenship training is the
day camp, left us by the de—
pression as one item on the
credit side of the ledger.
Even in so-called boom
years, the holiday experi-
ences of thousands of city
children who could not go
to camp and who had no

By J. R. KIDD

Program Secretary. Y.M.C.A.
Montreall Canada

"No longer is the day camp the Cinder-
ella sister of camping. even though its
budget is almost as modest in most in-
stances as it was in its early years.
Because of the day camp's'location in
the city when the children it serves
have continuous tree time and adminis-
trators of democracy are most availa-
bleI it is a tine instrument of educa-
tion tor democracy at a time when such
an instrument was never more needed."

Through the day camp many a city child

learns about trees and the out of doors

 

Courtesy Sherwood Forest Camp

place to play but the hot city
streets were a travesty of all
that a vacation should be. The
depression served to make
the problem more acute and
called for action. Soon in
many cities in Canada and
the United States agencies
began to serve the communi—
ties on shoe-string budgets
and even with borrowed
equipment and donated sup—~
plies. Assembly programs
with speakers, movies, sing-
songs, stories, and dramatics

usually began the day followed by handcrafts, ath—
,letics and swimming, and hikes through parks or
trips through factories. Thus grew up the day
camp, a new Topsy.

At first the program was planned as a substi-
tute for the regulation camp, as the general names
day camping, city camping, urban camping, or
stay-at—home camp sugges‘t. Every camping ex—
perience that was possible in a city was tried but
gradually those program items that fitted best into

a city setting were most
emphasized and soon inde—
pendent objectives and
standards were established.
A realization of the unparal-
leled opportunity for citizen-
ship education came last of
all. The nature of its origin
as a depression emergency
and the modesty of its bud-
get prevented many of those
conducting the program
from seeing at hrst the
value of the instrument at
hand. But as cooperative
program councils were de-
veloped, this realization came
into being and its lessons
were immediately applied.
In Montreal, Canada, the
day camp council embrac-
ing all the agencies such as
Y’s and settlements, the

287

288 THE DAY CAMP AND THE YOUNG CITIZEN

Parks and Playgrounds Association, and the Fed-
eration Summer Schools discovered at an early
date how varied and plentiful are the opportuni-
ties for citizenship training in day camping.

If we can break down the process of education
in a democracy into three components, we can
more easily evaluate the worth of the Day Camp
as an educational instrument. These three com-
ponents are: (I) a readiness to learn and retain,
(2) the content or curriculum of citizenship, and
(3) the practice of democracy.

For much of the summer boys and girls are in
day camps all day in continuous association with
staff members and leaders. These leaders can give
undivided attention to program for, compared to
the camp situation where a great deal of time must
be given to supplying the creature needs of the
campers and to administrative problems, day
camping organization involves a minimum of busi-
ness detail. Of greatest im-
portance is the fact that the
boys and girls come with the
same eagerness that they go
to camp and thus vital inter-
ests are stimulated which set
the stage for genuine learn-
ing experiences. Moreover,
what is learned can be read-
ily retained as all the ex-
periences are in the child’s
natural environment. The
problem of carry-over faced by out-of-town camps
is unknown.

The content of courses in citizenship education
is all around the child, and it is peculiarly avail-
able in the summer months. Important officials
will take time to meet delegations of children and
are happy to address them at assembly periods.
The cop on the corner will come up to visit and
will sometimes play baseball with the children in
his off-duty time. Through such face to face rela-
tionships he assumes his rightful status as a civic
guardian, replacing a former impression of him as
“the guy who stole our bat when we were playing
on the street.” Other guardians of democracy—
firemen, health and truant officers—are met in the
same friendly way. On hikes the child goes
through parks and slums, through planned areas
and civic follies. Each teaches its own lesson. He
visits factories, museums, city hall, and hospitals.
Movies add to his store of knowledge. The treas-
ures of the city and of society become his as do
the problems of the people round about him.

"A New Deal for City Children" is the
name of a manual on day camping pre-
pared by Mr. Kidd, author of this arti-
cle, and sponsored by the Day Camp
Section of the Montreal Council of So-
cial Agencies. Copies of the booklet,
which is attractively illustrated. may be

secured at sixty cents each from Notre
Dame de Grace Y.M.C.A., 4335 Hamp-
ton Avenue, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Playing with him daily and sharing his experi-
ences are boys and girls of a different religion and
sometimes of a different race and color. Preju-_
dices are broken down. Every day situations arise
which produce eager questions and the staff and!
leaders, the minister, the factory manager, the
museum curator or whoever the guide may be at-
that particular moment, has unique opportunities
for interpretation and instruction.

But learning comes most surely with practice
and the day camp must by its very nature be a
democratic organization, Hiking through busy
streets can be accomplished by a huge marching
mass of boys under a dictator with a whistle, but
can be negotiated safely by small self-disciplined
groups. The program of assemblies, of hobby
groups, of athletic skills, of over-night camping.
and hiking is most effective when planned and
carried out by volunteer leaders and by properly
elected councils of the chil-
dren themselves. I

Sometimes these councils-
become so skillful as the sum-.
mer progresses that they carry
a large burden of both plan-
ning and execution of pro-
gram. They serve adequately
in entertaining visitors and
in introducing and thankin
assembly speakers. Progran
councils of the Parks and
Playgrounds Association of Montreal have seen t
the sanitation of grounds and have organize
health campaigns in the grounds and in the com-
munity. In the Y.\V.C.A., a boys’ and girls’ traf
fic court was established with the help of th
police chief. This resulted in an effective safety
campaign. Another court, this time in a Y.M
H.A., using full legal procedures, summonses
witnesses, judge, and jury has been resp-onsibl
for discipline in that Association for three year
and the court decisions are now accepted by th
boys almost without question.

Service projects such as messenger service at
community rally, the activities of handcraft group
in repairing toys or in preparing Red Cross re
quirements have added their practical effect it
shaping attitudes. And so has such a project a
the writing. printing, and distribution of a news
paper. Nor should mention of the impact on t
lives of the large number of volunteer leaders wl
are needed each summer be omitted, as this train

( Continued on page 312)

 
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
   

Recreation for Adults

of Education of the Ma-

rengo Community High
School, Marengo, Illinois,
realized the need for a rec-
reation program for the peo—
ple living within the bound- .
aries of the high school dis—
trict. After discussing the
matter carefully and thorough-
ly, after weighing and con-
sidering the problems in-
volved, the necessary steps
were taken to start the pro j—
ect, which has been notably
successful from its beginning in the summer of

1936.

Marengo is a town of approximately 2,000 popu—
lation located about sixty miles west of Chicago
midway between the cities of Rockford and Elgin.
The community high school district has an area of
118 square miles, which includes the greater por-
tion of four congressional townships, all located in
McHenry County.

SOME TIME AGO the Board

Softball Popular

The fundamental problem was to plan a pro-
gram which would meet the needs and interests of
all. An attempt was made to give every age group
an opportunity to use the school and its facilities
for recreation. First, an adult program was in-
augurated during the summer of 1936 which
proved to be very p0pular. The Board of Edu-
cation sponsored a softball league for the adults
residing within the district. During the summer of
1936 there were fourteen teams made up of 234
players representing every section of the district.
In 1937 there were sixteen teams consisting of 281
players, and in 19 38 there were fifteen teams, made
up of 270 players. Five hundred to one thousand
Spectators was the average attendance per night at
these games.

All players who live within the city limits were
placed upon teams by having each captain choose in
turn from a list containing the names of all such
players. Enough indicated their intention to play
to make up seven teams from the city. Seven
captains were selected and the entire list of players

By W. E. MCCLEERY
Principal
Marengo Community High School

Marengo. Illinois

The Marengo Community High School is
convinced that its recreation program
has been instrumental in bringing the
city and rural elements in the popula-
tion closer together—a problem which
faces any school serving a small city
and a large rural area. Most observers
have noticed a distinct improvement in
the welding of city and rural interests
and the promotion of community spirit.

was given to each captain,
who, in turn, chose his team,
each one choosing in order
until seven had been chosen.
Then all chose in reverse
order, the last choosing first,
and so on. This procedure
was followed until every name
on the list had been chosen.
The people living outside the
city limits were allowed to
sign up as teams from their
respective townships. Each
township could have as many
teams as it desired. The vil-
lage of Union, which is located within the high
school district, also had two teams. People living
outside the high school district were not allowed
to participate.

The softball league was governed by a Board
of Control consisting of a player from each team
as well as three non-players. The non-players
were included so as to have some neutral disin-
terested pe0ple as members of this controlling
group. The Board of Control decided all dis-
putes, made all rules and regulations, and decided
upon the eligibility of all players. This group
voted on the admittance of players to the league
after the deadline for signing had passed. Such
players were arbitrarily assigned to teams in
rotation.

Rules Adopted

In order to give a better picture of the project a
few of the rules and regulations adopted by the
Board of Control are given below:

I. Umpires and scorekeepers shall be paid $1.00
per night.

2. Five cents shall be collected from each mem-
ber of each team whenever the team is scheduled
to play. Captains are charged with the responsi-
bility for collecting such money. The money col-
lected is used to defray the expense of paying
umpires.

3. Two diamonds shall be used. Three games
shall be played each night on each diamond, the
first game starting at 6:30 P. 31., the next begin-
ning ten minutes after the completion of the first.

289

290 RECREATION FOR ADULTS

4. All games shall be seven innings in length.
Tie games shall be continued as long as needed to
determine a winner. . i

5. All games shall be played on Monday and
Thursday nights. In case of rain, games shall be
played on the following night.

6. The schedule shall start the second Monday
following the completion of the regular school
year.

7. Failure of a team to appear shall constitute a
forfeit.

8. Smoking by players shall be prohibited while
they are participating in games.

9. All players shall be fifteen years of age or over.

IO. All protests shall be made to the Board of
Control and all teams shall accept the decision of
the Board of Control as final.

II. The rules governing the playing of softball
shall be followed.

The diamonds were located in the northeast and
southeast corners of the lighted football field.
These diamonds were close enough to enable spec-
tators to pass easily from one game to another.

How the Program Operates

The entire cost was financed by the Board of
Education from tax money collected by the county
collector. Expenditures for balls, bats, masks,
bases, pitcher’s plates, home plates, lighting and
incidentals were met in this manner. The only
expense to the participants was the five cent fee
which was used to defray the expense of umpires.
All spectators were admitted without charge and
no one was asked to make a voluntary contribu-
tion. Since each team played every other team
once, approximately eight weeks were consumed
in completing the schedule, enabling a winner to
be declared according to games won and lost. A
single elimination tournament was held after the
regular scheduled games were concluded. During
the three years of the operation of the recreation
program, the same team never won twice either
the championship based on games won and lost, or
the tournament.

Once each summer an outside professional soft-
ball team was secured to play
a picked team of players. Ad-
mission was charged to this
game and the profits were
given to the Board of Edu-
cation to assist in defraying
expenses. Approximately
3,000 people attended such

When a doctorI a druggist, a few clerks.
and one or two laborers compose a soft-
ball team which competes against a group
of farmers and farm boys, a better un-
derstanding oteach other' a more friendly
attitude, and a closer personal acquaint-
anceship are bound to be the result.

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
  

games each summer. These games created inter-
est and stimulated local players to greater perfec-
tion of playing form.

The local weekly newspaper was exceedingly
generous with newspaper space telling of the sum-
mer softball league. Every week’s issue contained
the schedule for the coming week, the standings of
the teams, team batting averages, individual bat-
ting averages, pitchers’ standings, the scores of
the previous week’s games, and a column contain-
ing the outstanding facts concerning the games for
the week. Also included in the column was a
small‘ amount of good-natured humor pointing to-
ward certain individual players or occurrences.

A group of four teams composed of young
women played games every two weeks, enabling
about seventy-five girls to participate.

Other Activities

In addition the adult recreation program is con-
ducted during the winter months. Men use the
school facilities on Thursday night of each week
while the women have Monday night reserved for
their activities. The men play badminton, volley-
ball, basketball, shuffleboard, table tennis, loop
tennis, and indoor horseshoes. Of these, basket-
ball and volleyball seem to be the most popular.
Practically the same activities are engaged in by
the women. Basketball, table tennis, and badmin-
ton are the most popular activities as far as the
women are concerned.

The summer recrr .uon program, coupled with
the winter program for adults, in addition to the
intramural program for high school students, the
physical education classes, and the interscholasti
sports in football, basketball, baseball, and trac
constitutes a well-rounded recreation and sport
program which meets the needs and interests 0
most people within the high school district limits.

“Individuals participate in recreation beca
they want to; there is no compulsion. They te r
to repeat those activities from which they derix .
satisfaction. ' Satisfaction usually comes from
degree of mastery. People like tr engage in th

activities which they do best
Since satisfaction follow
success, recreation leadershi
must provide the opportunit
for people to enjoy activitie
in which they can attain .~
degree of success.”

Some Small Communities at Play

Rural and small communities have been so modest about telling of their
recreational achievements that there has not been as much appearing in
“Recreation” on this subject as we or our readers would like to see. We
have been able to assemble some interesting material for this issue,
but we shall want more for future numbers. What can you do to help?

In a Town of I,OOO

By J. B. STEPHENS

Afhle’ric.and Recreation Director
Sweefser High School

|

l WEETSER, INDIANA, located in the western part
S of Grant County, is a typical Hoosier town of

I about 1,000 residents. Our high school has
an enrollment of 171. We have no public park or
playground. Our high school grounds, however,
cover about four acres, so it was to the school we
turned when the problem of providing needed rec-
reation facilities arose.

By wise planning on the part of the school of-
ficials, this tract of land has been developed into a
modern playground. The first step involved the
provision of drainage and a water system. Next
play areas were laid out; a quarter of a mile track

' I4 feet wide was built with a baseball diamond
inside it. At the other end of the track is a smaller

I diamond for younger children. At one side are
two tennis courts, a basketball court which may
also be used for volleyball, a croquet court, and

. two horseshoe courts. Beyond this is a free play
area. Between the building and the track are
swings, bars, teeters, and other equipment. Re-
cently two shuffleboard courts have been built.

Four years ago a complete lighting system was
installed consisting of steel poles and underground
wiring. At the present time we have 40,000 watts
on our playground.

The Summer Program

| Our morning program for the boys between the
' ages of ten and fifteen consists of softball, baseball,
hiking, archery, tennis, and quiet games. We want
every child in our community to know how to
swim but as we have no swimming "pool, each
Friday we take the boys and girls in the school
bus to a semi-private swimming pool. Our voca-
tional home economics teacher helps chaperon this

group which includes from forty to fifty children.
Because it is so hot in the afternoon we have no

organized program but use that time to put the

grounds in shape for the evening’s activities.

On Monday night the lights are turned on for
tennis, croquet, and horseshoes. We ask the boys
and girls who are not working to use the tennis
courts in the day time, leaving them free at night
for those who work throughout the day.

On Tuesday and Thursday we have our league
softball games. This league, composed of eight
teams of men and boys, plays for seven weeks.
After that the elimination tournament is held.

On these three nights all of the lights are turned
on and all the courts are in use. On Wednesday
night the high school band puts on a concert, and
no other features are introduced. ‘

On Friday night comes our most extensive pro-
gram. This we call “Community Night.” Many
men, old-time baseball players who are too old to
play on an organized team, at this time have their
chance at “hitting the old ball.” We have a team
called “Life Begins at Forty” which plays other
teams with members of similar age. There is
great fun when games are scheduled between
farmers and business men or “Life Begins at
Forty” versus a visiting Lions or Rotary team.
When we play the “courthouse gang,” using our
county judge as umpire-in-chief, it is truly a gala
occasion. The women are not neglected on these
nights as we have games, Mrs. versus Misses,
town ladies versus home economics clubs and simi-
lar groups. While these games are being played,
a croquet match may be going on with some visit-
ors or between local teams. We have found that
men are greatly interested in this game; some, in
fact, have made special mallets. We have had some
special tennis matches on these nights but never

- have we brought in a professional group, for our

recreation program is based purely upon play for
play’sJ sake. ..
On Saturday night our lights illuminate only the

291

292 SOME SMALL COMMUNITIES AT PLAY

tennis courts. On Sunday afternoon the play—
ground is open from I :00 to 6 :00 o'clock.

During the past summer 2,770 individuals par-
ticipated in some form of activity, and there were
13,550 spectators. At one of our community nights
there were by actual count 1,112 people, with 75
individuals participating in softball, tennis, horse-
shoe pitching, and croquet.

A program such as ours should be financed, we
realize, in part at least by tax funds. Since this is
impossible in our community, we use the surplus
from our high school basketball funds to provide
for summer recreation. Part of the money is used
for maintenance, some for permanent improve-
ments, and some for operating expenses. To pay
our light bill we operate a concession stand at
night, and we charge an entry fee for our softball
league in order to pay officials.

In spite of the popularity of basketball, other
sports are greatly enjoyed. Our high school ath-
letic program includes inter-high school baseball,
softball, track, and tennis, as well as basketball. In
addition, we have a complete intramural program
climaxed by a district table tennis tournament
which includes seven counties.

Recreation in Yellow Springs
By MAX AND HILDA LIVINGSTON

ELLOW SPRINGS, a semi-suburban town near

Springfield, Ohio, and the home of Antioch
College, has a comprehensive recreation program
now entering its sixth year. From small begin-
nings in 1936 the play program has expanded
greatly for the benefit of all the pe0ple of all ages
in the community. '

An organization called the Community Youth
Council has been the sponsor of most of this pro-
gressive program of leisure—time activity. The
Council is a federated organization having duly
authorized adult representatives from each local
church, civil division, and civic organization. Its
funds are raised by voluntary popular subscription
and admission fees. It has no
public tax support, although
the time may not be far dis-
tant when such support may
be forthcoming.

Besides recreation the
Council carries on an elabor-
ate program including health,
welfare, and adult education.

The population of Yellow SpringsI Ohio,
is less than 2.000, but its recreation
program is carefully planned to meet
the needs of people of all ages. In
this article Mr. and Mrs. Livingston
describe the program conducted last
summer for three age groups: 3 to l0
year old children. II to I6 year old
youths, and older youths, and adults.

Whatever success has attended its efi'orts is due
to the generous and wholehearted support of the
people of the community. Though it has no full-
time director, it has been able to carry on this
program chiefly through highly trained part-time
employees and, to a large measure, through volun-
teer workers.

It is the purpose of this article to describe last
summer’s (1941) recreation program. The sched-
ule of activities was designed to serve the needs of
three age groups: (I) 3 to 10 year old children;
(2) 11 to 16 year old youth; and (3) older youth
and adults.

For Younger Children. For the young children
the summer began with a two-week Bible School
set up through the joint cooperation of all of the
local churches, white and Negro, Catholic and
Protestant ; the local Board of Education ; the Com-
munity Youth Council; and the Ohio Division of
Forestry. The churches furnished the instructional
program; the school board, a building and play-
ground; and the Youth Council; recreation super— I
visors and a recreation program including outdoor
play and bus transportation to and from the swim- I
ming pool at John Bryan State Park, three miles
out of the village. The Ohio Division of Forestry
kindly loaned the use of the public pool during the l
quiet noon hour.

At the close of the Bible School the day camp-
ing program started. Two mornings a week for
twelve weeks the young children brought their
lunches to the playground and had supervised,
free and organized games. Indian lore, stories,
wigwams, and handwork were fascinating centers
of interest. At the close of the morning’s program
the children were taken to the pool for swimming
instruction. On their way back to town they
st0pped off at the State Park picnic grounds for
their lunches. Nature study opportunities in the
park were utilized by the supervisors.

For Older Boys and Girls. The boys and girls
from eleven to sixteen met three days a week for

tennis, archery, and golf instruction under quali-
fied workers. The morning
program closed with swim-
ming at the pool. Red Cross
standards for swimming in
struction were followed. Tl
children were graded and pro-
moted according to their abil-
ity to pass the Red Cross
swimming tests. Swimming

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

   
  
     
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
 

struction for the
mmer ended in a
and water carnival
' n that proud chil-
en could show
oud parents their
owth in swimming
ills as well as their
owess in competing
r greased water-
elons and other
velty prizes.
Youths and Adults.
or the older youths
1d adults there were
ree main activities:
e so‘ftball league,
e “Family Nights,”
(1 the community
rden.

Under Hoodlights three nights a week the soft-
11 attracted many spectators. This was a county
gue of twelve teams, three of them from Yellow
rings. Since only one other town in the county
d a lighted field, all games were played in these
0 towns. The three Negro teams in the league
re always good drawing cards.

Admission to the bleachers was five and ten
‘ ts with the right to stand or sit at the edge of
- field free to all. Admissions covered the ex-
ises for. balls, umpires, and supervision.

The “Family Nights” were offered with the
a of providing some activity where father,
ther, the older youth, and the children could all
et and mingle in refreshing play. One evening
'eek a volunteer square dance orchestra and
ler were assembled in the school auditorium.
the strains of “The Lop-Eared Mule” or “Rag-
ne Annie” and the stirring calls of “Now you’re
t, and now you’re wrong, meet your partner
a take her along!” or “Come on, boys! Don’t
slow! Chicken in the breadpan pickin’ up
gh!” the jolly prancing proceeded. Refresh-
ts and general visiting, or community singing,
owed before the grand march and “Good Night,
ies.”

he community garden was started by the
uth Council with the NYA and the Board of
ucation participating. Boys and girls over six—
, paid by the NYA, raised and canned over
I, "-0 quarts of produce, besides the dried corn
i111 peas and the potato crops. In addition, fresh
VQetables were supplied direct from the garden

 

SOME SMALL COMMUNITIES AT PLAY 293

during the fall
months. Through
the efforts of these
youth sufficient food
was raised so that
the price of lunches
for school children
of the village was
reduced to ten cents.
With federal sur-
plus commodities,
forty or more un-
dernourished school
children have been
receiving free
lunches also.

Though funds
may be harder to
raise for the-coming
fiscal year, the Coun-
cil plans to increase its expenditures and expand
its program further. The war makes .this expan-
sion imperative, since Yellow Springs is in a
major defense area, and a great number of local
pe0ple are now employed at the Wright and Pat—
terson air fields. Plans for free open air band
concerts and a Negro social center have been
prepared.

Although it is nominally a village, Yellow
Springs, by reason of its diverse racial, cultural,
religious, and occupational groups, is .really a little
city—with all of a city’s faults, disunity, factional-
ism, and political strife. Many observers feel that
the work of the Youth Council has brought a new
and higher degree of unity to life in the village.
\Vhen people play together they get to know each
other. W hen they know each other they like each
other better, trust each other more. And trust—
faith in our fellow men, in the essential goodness
that exists to some degree in all of us—this is the
cement that can bind us all together in a better life.

Photo by Reynold Carlson

Successful Community Nights

By MAURINE V. SHARPE
Howell. Michigan

HE RING of the telephone interrupts the quiet
summer afternoon, and a pleasant feminine
voice says, “Good afternoon. This is the Howell
Board of Commerce Speaking. We wish to invite
you to Community Night in Howell this evening.
\Ve’ll all meet on the courthouse lawn where the

294 SOME SMALL COMMUNITIES AT PLAY

band will play, and the amateurs
will perform. \Ve h0pe you will
be there !"

Residents of this southern
Michigan town and local vicinity became accus-
tomed to this greeting each Thursday afternoon
for six weeks during the past summer. It was the
signal of the Howell Board of Commerce for
neighbors and friends to gather on the courthouse
square in the center of town for an evening of fun.

\Vith an allotted budget of $275, it was the
Community Night Committee’s hope to create
through the entertainments a genuine feeling of
good will among townspeople, country folk, re-
sorters, and business men. That the committee
succeeded in their aim is evidenced by the estimated
attendance of from two to three thousand each
night from this town of four thousand and its
vicinity. To make the enterprise wholly non-com-
mercial, stores were closed on these evenings and
merchants mingled with the crowd.

Mrs. G. A. Pierce, chairman of the committee
and proprietor of a women’s dress shop, said that
in her opinion the entertainments “created plenty
of good will and got the people thinking ‘Howell-
wise’ instead of ‘city-wise.’ ”

The success of the undertaking was due to the
interesting programs and the careful planning be-
hind them. The committee was fortunate in the
selection of a resourceful, lively master of cere-
monies, a local public utilities employee; and it
was wise in its decision to make it possible for
members of the audience to participate directly in
the programs. They were able to do this through
amateur competition and participation in stunts.

Each Thursday evening at eight o’clock, a rep-
resentative of the American Legion, carrying a
large American flag, ascended the steps of the
platform erected before the doorway of the court
house. The crowd saluted the flag, pledged fheir
allegiance, and the high school band on the plat-
form played “The Star-Spangled Banner.” Then
Bill Hodge would proceed with the program,
which' was always different. Amateurs who sang,
played instruments, gave imitations, or danced,
competed for the awards offered by the merchants.

Each time some stunts were put on by persons
drawn from the audience at random. Perhaps the
two most hilarious stunts were the milk feeding
and the cracker eating contests. In the former,
four women were selected from the audience to
hold nursing bottles for four men who drank the
milk. The first one to empty his bottle won the

A small Michigan town conducts a
series of popular community nigh’r
entertainments during the summer

prize donated by some 1
merchant. In the latter cont
the men endeavored to whis
after eating crackers.

Between numbers of the program the hi
school band played and Mr. Hodge led the gro
in community singing. As Mrs: Pierce said, "
programs really “un-stiffened” Howell.

Winners of the first five amateur contests co
peted for honors the final night.

A committee of eight business and professio
men and women headed by Mrs. Pierce was r
sponsible for the planning and the carrying out i
the programs. The manager of the local hotel w
secretary and in charge of the budget. A .-
undertaker supervised the erection of the platfo
each week and arranged for it to be taken dow
Another business man ran the loud speaker a
borrowed records from Howell merchants to r
played before the program. The lighting of t
grounds was the special duty of one committ
member, while another attended to collecting a
distributing the awards given during the seas
Still another was responsible for handing out t
free tickets for the drawing.

Printed advertising matter was put in the 10
town and county papers as well as in two fr
advertising bulletins. However, in Mrs. Pierc
opinion, the most successful form of advertisi
was the personal telephone canvass every Thu
day afternoon of all families listed in the c'
directory.”

Mrs. Pierce admits that getting talent to p
ticipate in the amateur contests was the maj
problem this first year, but she expresses the bel
that next year it will be easier because people I 

o

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
   

b

be more familiar with the entertainments.

The original idea was to have cards at I '
various stores and offices fo rapplicants to
out. These were to be turned in to the c
mittee. Since amateurs were hesitant to volunte
the committee and the master of ceremonies l
to do a lot of— scouting around. The local sch
commissioner aided very much by telling them
children who were capable of participating.

The budget of $275 was carefully watched, a
at the end of the season the committee was .
to report a balance of $26.

Westboro's Recreation Progra

AST YEAR the greater part of the first playgrou
L program to be conducted in Westboro, Mas

‘l
l
.4

SOME SMALL COMMUNITIES AT PLAY 295

  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   

all community house adjoining it.

For our indoor activities we used the larger
ker and shower rooms by disconnecting the
owers and installing chairs and a table in the
ower room. This part of the building was made
serve as a crafts room for little children in the
orning and as a game room the rest of the day.
he room was always busy and MonOpoly was
vived as a favorite game.

The locker room was used as office, nature mu-
um, craft shop, and game room. Three large

eckers, parchesi, and many other quiet games
ere enjoyed. Our nature museum and library
ere also put to good use.

After a three years’ demonstration of recreation,
rough a gift fund, the town of Westboro with
population of about 6,000 pe0ple, voted at a
wn meeting to establish a recreation department
(I appropriate money to maintain a year-round

stem.—From Willard G.£Patt0n, Director of
ecreation. 

You Can Do It, Tool

By PAUL EMERSON ,
Editor-in-Chief. "The Pep’romist"
Naponee High School

NTIL LAST FALL recreation for high school
students in Naponee, Nebraska, was a prob-
intensified by the fact that over half of the
001’s students drove in daily from the country.
ming in carloads of six or seven pupils, an en—
e group stayed in town until 5 :30 or 6:00
lock if one member had to practice‘for athletics,
sic, or other activities. Before school and dur-
noon hours there was nothing to do but loaf.
wide-aWake group of students, however, under
leadership of H.’G. I. Berman, Superintendent
Schools, changed the situation and demon-
ated what can happen when the entire student
dy becomes interested in a project.

j“What we need,” said these students, “is a
recreation center.” They found the ‘Board of Edu-

|c*ion and other individuals ready to help,'so the
'campaign was launched.

The Student Council and Superintendent Ber-
m'an decided to turn the entire gymnasium intoa
recreation center. Two ping—pong tables and a
'dozen paddles were constructed by NYA students
and placed on the auditorium "stage. Additional

usetts, was carried on at' Forbes Field and in the

tables were built andput. in the high school as-
sembly room to be used as reading and game
tables. The gymnasium floor was made available
for various forms of play. In addition, the library
facilities were made more attractive by the~de-
velopment of a reading corner or area in the’ high
school assembly room and in every grade room.
Tables were built, new books were purchased and
donated, a daily newspaper was subscribed to,
and eight monthly and weekly magazines made
their appearance regularly with protective and at-

tractive plywood covers made by NYA students.
Before the library facilities were installed the

students did not make the best use of their leisure
time, and as is well known an idle student causes
worry and trouble in the assembly and grade
rooms. The reading corner, it has been demon-
strated, occupies students’ spare moments and
benefits them by providing good reading material
and by keeping them informed of world events.

These plans proved so successful last year that
the Student Council voted to enlarge the recrea-
tion program by making use of the area around
the football field. A badminton court has been
constructed and rackets and shuttles purchased by
the Council. Plans are being made to construct
shufHeboard courts in the gymnasium and to build
outdoor tennis courts.

The first evening project in September, was

an all-school party, starting at 7 :00 o’clock at the
schoolhouse. The main feature of the party was a

dance. Music was furnished by a phonograph
connected with the public address system. In
other rooms ping-pong, checkers, and similar
games were played.

Parents are delighted that their children now
have a place to dance under pr0per supervision;
the young people are proud to have these privi-

leges granted them; and the N aponee High School

feels that it. has taken constructive steps to serve
its pupils.

 

“The schools are playing an increasingly import-
ant part in the.recreational life of rural America.
In addition to providing recreational activities for
pupils, rural schools have always made some con—
tribution to the social life of their service areas, but
they have been limited in what they could accom-
plish by their lack of resources. . . . Today rural
schools. are in a better position than ever before to
provide recreational opportunities and they recog-
nize the desirability of providing them.”—¥From
Rural America'Td‘ddy, by lVorks and Lesser.

Small Community Recreation

os‘r URFVI men have found
M solitude to be a vital nec-
essity, and the best that
is in us often demands time to be alone. or with
one or two companions. .\ detailed study by Cor-
nell I ‘niversity of a rural community in New York
State indicated that more people chose reading
than any other form of recreation. Another wide-
spread study gave the same results. A wise pro-
gram of community recreation will make provision
for individual enjoyment. Today as never before
this is feasible.

The community library is a primary necessity.
Its shelves should not be
wholly tilled with the latest
best sellers. There should be
room for literature, sci-
ence, poetry, biography,
history, philosophy, and
religion. It is not always
the book most talked
about and taken out
most frequently which
is most interesting. The
great books of the ages
often can be the most
familiar friends. Many
people would like great
books if they were not
afraid of them, and if
they were willing to
learn the special lan—
gnage .vlnich great think-
’1’: frequently require
3: r expressing their

lftt‘c't'u

The Little Wilderness

The kind of intimate
c1! joy" .u-nt. of nature and
We .litu- it n'l‘dt‘ll t harac
muzul llm r, 'l 'ioreau
(mu 1...: unm- -udrlen-
'3 It needs- uMmrhnIit)
for gran-t". \lust stziall
‘. m-rit ar u mm innities
as“: been lilin-lly int
~(:I;‘~lf.\'c' tn the natural
beauties around them

2‘11 )

By ARTHUR E. MORGAN
Yellow Springs, Ohio

"A community does well to acquire as it
can its river banks, springy hollows,
wooded hills, or marshy shore lines."

 

and have tended to destroy what.
ever opportunities there werI
for saving them. A wooded rivd
bank may have been used for a city dump. A.
beautiful native wood lot has been cut for th!
timber. In most parts of America hogs and cattl'
have overrun the beautiful wooded tracts and (It.
stroyed the wild flowers.

Yet in hundreds if not in thousands of case]
there is opportunity for the community to gtl
possession of wooded river banks, or rough piece‘
of woodland. or hits of open marshy meadow, or
wooded swamps where native wild flowers are m.
yet destroyed or can be re;
placed. Few expressions of
nature are more awe-inspi
ing than a tamara
swamp with gre
trunks, gray cylindriczi
pillars reaching towar‘
the sky, and the grounl
of the shady aisles 111‘
derneath covered with
tamarack needles, an.
here and there twin.
flower or golden-threa
Compared with i
stately, silent beauty,
European cathedr
seems artificial and cor
inonplace. Most suc
places have been ten !
porarily spoiled by cud
ting the timber, but timid,
can heal such wound{:
and the beauty cqw
return. i

A community dog:
very well to acquire :
it can its river banll
springy hollows,wood§(
hills, or marshy short

lines where the 1)in
(-ierardia and the bll't

Lobelia bloom. Even i
there is no money a:
present to care for them-
the years will be busy:

in restoring naturer

Boys will explore these
little wildernesses, and will
become acquainted with
squirrels and groundhogs
and woodpeckers and
thrushes, and some of
them will develop a sensi—
tiveness to nature which
will add to the apprecia-
tion of our national parks
and other great natural
monuments. A few pe0ple

Q.

SMALL COMMUNITY RECREATION

"Americans have been so busy pioneering that
a large number of them have not learned how
to play intelligently and effectively. . . . There
should be definite efforts to have times and
occasions when the community as a whole can
get together for play and acquaintance. Music
furnishes an excellent opportunity for such
meetings. . . . Periodical community picnics
and tield days are desirable. . . . Community
dances and social evenings can make a great
contribution to community recreation and com-
munity spirit. . . . Among the most satisfactory
provisions for community recreation are com-
munity parksI playgrounds and camp grounds.'l

297

munity setting to discover
its natural beauty and then,
not for profit but as a com-
munity service, help his
community to possess the
beauty he had discovered.
\Vhat an interesting avo-
cation!

A Directory of Interests

Even in a communty of
one or two thousand per-

:have ability to see poten-

tial natural beauty “in the rough,” through black-
berry briars and tramped—over springs. On them
we must largely depend for saving our resources

;of beauty.

Beauty Spots and Vista Points

About most villages in rolling country there are
small spots of natural beauty which are of no par-
uticular economic value to their owners. Often they
can be acquired and deve10ped into nooks for pic-
,nic parties. Along the highway an acre or two
may provide a picnic ground. Often there is a
point from which an exceptional view may be had.
A community in which there is imagination and
sensitivity, and energy to acquire such bits of land
and bring out and preserve their beauty for the
public, may be more fortunate than a community
endowed with an art gallery and a museum. A
keen sense of beauty applied to the home environ-
ment may give a community quality and distinc-
tion beyond what money could buy.,

A young Chicago lawyer had a keen sense of
natural beauty and a craving for the out of doors
he had left behind. On week ends he explored the
environs of the city. Finding a tumbledown farm
on rough land of woods and swamp, he saw po-
tential beauty in it. During week ends for a con-
siderable time he studied its possibilities. \Vith
ax and grub hoe he would open a vista, clear away
underbrush, explore a marshy spot for an under—
ground spring which could be made beautiful.

\V hen the possibility of beauty in this rundown
farm had been revealed, he sold the farm to a golf
club for a high price and then searched out another
waste place where he repeated the process. Thus
he maintained vigorous health (he is now past
ninety), enjoyed the out of doors, gave play to his
creative sense of beauty, and the process made a
‘fortune. \Vould that a thousand communities had
each a nature lover who would explore his com-

l

sons there may be several
persons with some one keen personal interest, each
of whom is unaware that anyone else has that in-
terest. If some person or some organization will
take the trouble year after year to develop a di-
rectory of personal interests and make a few c0pies
available to the public, as in the public library,
persons of like interests may discover each other
and flnd companionship in common avocations.
Such a directory can be compiled by sending a
return post card to each member of the commu-
nity, listing perhaps fifty subjects which can be
marked I, 2, or 3, according to whether they come
first, second, or third in the interest of the person
replying. The subjects listed may range all the
way from philosophy and poetry to boxing and
hunting. A small _space should be left on the card
for a description of equipment or facilities
available.

'Work as Recreation

At Alexandria, ,Ohio, the people of the commu-
nity worked together to turn a dump into a play-
ground. It is doubtful whether the use of the play-
ground gives any greater enjoyment than did the
making of it. \Vorking together for community
ends often is a pleasant and desirable form of
recreation.

Updyke, the great printer, worked for ten hate-
ful years at the printing trade, despising his work,
and wishing he were free from it. Then he began
to wonder what he would do if he were free, and
he asked himself whether his own work had no
possibilities of interest. The result was that he
fell in love with printing, became one of the world’s
great printers, and by that route found an open
road to the companionship of the men of intelli-
gence and appreciation whose acquaintance he had
so much desired.

There are some forms of individual or famin

(Continued on page 312)

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

-‘

A G RIC ULTURE. The Farm and Trade School

situated on Thompson’s Island, Boston Har-'

bor, is the first and oldest school of agriculture in
America, having been founded in 1833. Hundreds
of students have gone into agricultural pursuits
because of this famous school.

Animal Feeding in Parks “Don’t Feed the
Animals” is a common injunction. Bears become
unmanageable and sometimes dangerous when
pampered. Deer lose interest in feeding them-
selves.

‘Automobiles and Natural Resources. In every
car the following materials are used: cotton, wool,
leather, and mohair for upholstery; wood for floor-
ing; lard for axle grease; soy-beans for plastics
and lacquers; flax for linseed oil paints; tung oil
for varnish; corn for molding powders; jute for
carpet backing; fine pitch for varnish; sugar for
alcohol to dissolve lacquer; beeswax to insulate
electric wires; castor oil for brake fluid. These
are interesting facts for a quiz or matching game.
(Adapted from Current Science.)

Birds. “The Bulletin of New England Bird
Life” is issued monthly by the New England Mu-
seum of Natural History, Boston. Holland C.
Clement is editor; the price to non-members, $1.00.
Spotters from most communities in New England
keep a tally of flying birds for the Bulletin. They
report every bird concentration and such rarities
as the European Dunlin, Black Vulture, and
Pacific Loons. The recent Snowy Owl invasion
exceeded the 1926-27 reports. Growing enthusi-
asm for this hobby tends to put an end to the
private life of birds.

Campers as Farm Helpers. Many high school
students eighteen and up
will be in industry. Younger
boys and girls should not do
heavy work. The best work
for them is market garden—
ing, dairying at near-by
farms, and taking care of
animals at camp. Laws to
be considered are: child
labor, state labor board,

relativity

298

,ciety is pioneering in conservation education

"What Nature-grams do

ls it about such marv
eye; the making of fats from coal; Einstein's
theory? Or is it such simple
things of daily life as new nature hob-
bies; human interest things outdoor folks
are enioying; grand times from practically
nothing; homemade kites; making candy
from flagroot; raising silkworms in dan-
delion leaves; hawking; feeding humming
truancy, employment. Other birds nectar 7" — Captain Bill’s Bit.

es as the electric

  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
  
 
   
  

problems are transportation and supervision. Th '
best method would be the employment of camper
in localities where farmers and camps know eac.
other-. It is estimated that fifty per cent of t
seeds and fertilizers were wasted in World War
due to inexperience and ignorance.
Conservation. The Massachusetts Audubon So

Thirty-two courses are being given to 1,600 chil
dren in seventeen towns in Essex County an
eight courses at Chatham on Cape Cod. Manches
ter school children spend one entire week-day twic
a month in the town forest. Worthwhile pub"
services have usually started as private ventures.

Day C amp C onncil. In Montreal, the Y.M.C.A
Parks and Playground Association, Settlem
Houses, and Federation Summer Schools are sh
ing ideas and resources. Council Chairman is
R. Kidd, Y .M.C.A., 4335 Hampton Avenue, M
treal, Canada.

“Desert Country,” Edwin Corle. Duel], S1
and Pearce, New York City. 557 pp. $3.00. W
cm tales and customs. Good yarns for the ca
fire. .

“Duck Ifood Plants of the Illinois River Va
ley,” Illinois Natural History Survey (Urbana
August, 1941. 45 pp., 35 figures, II tables.
formative to anyone contemplating waterfowl f0
plantings.

Fishing. “An Angler’s Guide to Lassen V
canic National Park,” Merlin K. Potts, Wildl'
Ranger, Loomis Museum AssOciation. Natura'
Department, Lassen Volcanic National Park, C
fornia. 15 pp. 25 cents.

Forestry. “New Forest Frontiers for Jo
Permanent Communities,
Stronger Nation.” US. I
partment of Agricultur
miscellaneous publicati
414. 76 pp. 30 cents.

“Hiking.” Second a
nual Mid-Western Hiki
Conference, Spencer, In
ana. 34 page pamphl
Alfred Wyman, 613 Locu
Street, St. Louis, Missou

(Continued on page 308) 

l

you want to know?

i
l
.l
l

Helping Young America Keep Fit

' ITH THE immediate em-
W phasis on national de—
fense and war needs, the
recreation field today has the
responsibility for discovering
and stimulating new interests
that may broaden the horizons
of the group and bring new and
satisfying experiences. Today
more than ever the recreation worker and the phy-
sical director are in a position to help America to
become a sturdier and healthier nation. This im-
plies a knowledge of_techniques and of discerning
understanding of members of the group on the part
of the leader; and it calls upon his own resources
and interest in the field.

In the light of rapidly changing conditions it is
urgent that we stress new and suitable methods
and activities to stimulate awareness of the prob-
lem confronting us. Each day points with great
clarity to the need for stressing fitness in the
present emergency and for the future.

“Fitness” must be interpreted to include more
Ithan physical fitness. Rather must it be fitness of
the complete personality of the individual. The
physical director and recreation leader can pro-
vide skilled leadership and offer an opportunity
Ifor individuals or groups to act in situations that
are physically wholesome, mentally stimulating and
satisfying, and socially sound. The recreation pro-
:gram has certain concomitant results of team play,
aggressiveness, cheerfulness, cooperation, confi-
dence and ability, and the development of the
power and endurance which will eventually help in
giving the participants of the program morale nec-
essary for winning the war.

A wide range of activities and new methods may
be carried on by groups participating in the pro-
gram, depending on the interests of these groups
and the program and facilities offered them. The
activities may be purely recreational in nature such
as sports or social activities, or they may be cul-
' tural activities related to the vocational or civic or
docial interests of the members of the group. In all
instances, however, the emphasis is on the co-
. operative nature of these activities, and the values
' emerging from group associations and relation—
ships are regarded as fully as important as those

I

 

By ROBERT E. LINK

Mr. Linlcl who serves as a playground
director in the Recreation Division
of the Park Department of New York
City. is also Director of Health and
Physical Education at Madison HouseI
one of New York City's settlements.

derived from the content of the
activity itself. The choice of
activities must be determined
by the following objectives:
(I) different age levels, (2)
interest of draft age boys, (3)

the felt needs and desires of
the group.

An Experiment in Stimulating Physical Fitness

At a lower East Side Settlement in New York
City a program was put into effect designed to
stress projects stimulating physical fitness. The
program was based on the principle that the group
members themselves would determine the activi-
ties and form of organization through a process of
group discussion with the leader serving as guide
and participant.

In organizing the program at this settlement
through club groups in the gymnasium and during
their regular club meetings, it was necessary first
to discuss with the staff members and group ad-
visers the program objectives. Through their dis-
cussion with the boys’ and girls’ athletic commit-
tees, interest in the program was aroused which,
with the aid of good publicity, spread throughout
the agency, Bulletins on physical fitness were dis-
tributed. The physical director talked with various
club groups, schedules wererposted on the gym—
nasium bulletin board, and large rating charts list—
ing the program of activities and the names of
participants were placed in the gymnasium.

The objectives stressed for the program were
health and fitness for warfare for the boys and
girls of the settlement with a carry-over into later

life.

The Program

For Boys:

I. Track and Field
a. Running high jump
b. Running broad jump
c. 100 yard dash
2. Basketball skills
a. Basketball goal shooting for 30 seconds
b. Different shots, lay-up, set-shot
c. Drilbbling and shooting
3. Baseball skills
a. Baseball throw for distance
b. Baseball target throw

299

300 HELPING YOUNG AMERICA KEEP FIT

4. Football skills
a. Football goal kick
b. Catching kicked football
c. Football throwing for distance
5. Boxing, offense and defense
6. Gymnastics
a. Chinning, ten times
b. Head stand
c. Hand stand
7. \Vater sports
a. Demonstrate the following strokes:
breast, back, side, and crawl
b. Surface dives in 8 feet of water
c. Tread water one minute
8. Intramural handball tournament

The boys who participated in the program
ranged in age from the junior group, 12 to 14
years; the upper juniors, 14 to 16 years; the inter-
mediates, 16 to 18 years; and the seniors from 18
years, to adults.

For Girls:

1. Track and held
a. 50 yard dash
b. Standard broad jump
2. Basketball skills
' a. Basketball foul shooting
b. Dribbling and shooting
3. Softball skills
a. Two out of live strikes
b. Catching fiy ball from home to lirst base
c. Batting
4. Badminton serves and returns
a. Serves, three out of live
b. Returns, three out of five
. Overhead throw for distance
6. Gymnastics
a. Head stand
b. Tip-up from the ground
c. Potato race
7. \Vater sports
a. Demonstrate two of the four strokes:
breast, back, side, and crawl
b. Surface dives in 6 feet of water
c. Jump into the water feet first and swim 50
yards, any style (without touching bottom),
coming to a full stop and assuming a vertical
position at least once during the swim
8. Intramural volleyball tournament.

U1

The girls who participated in the program
ranged in age from the junior group, 12 to 14
years; upper juniors, 14 to 16 years; to inter-
mediates and seniors, 16 to 19 years.

Each activity in the physical fitness program
had a total value of five points. The handball
tournament for, boys had a value of ten points, and
the girls volleyball tournament, a value of twenty
points. The boy or girl was rated according to
the ability and skill of the individual. The perfect

     
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
    
  

score for any individual was 100 per cent. Othe
scores ranged accordingly. In this way it was pos
sible to get a range of score of the participants ant
have a comparison of the standing of the boys an
girls in the program. The program was gui .
by the scores that individuals achieved. Eac
week two activities were given, which were in
cluded in the regular gymnasium program. A
activities were explained and practiced during tl
regular gymnasium period before taking the test
The tests were simply standards of eliiciency i
physical education skills. Results were achiev
through practice.

All boys and girls in the physical fitness pr
gram were examined by the house doctor befo
participating in any activities. The point
emphasized that the boys and girls had to be goo
in all sports and activities in order to be phy
cally fit and ready. The program gave the grou
an opportunity to see how good they were and
chance to measure their physical ability and skil

A “Fitness for Victory” night including spea
ers on physical fitnesss, a movie on baseball, .
a performance by a group of boys and girls
tumbling, wrestling, stunts, calisthenics, a1
heavy gymnastics concluded the physical litn
program. It was held in the auditorium and
free to spectators.

An excellent opportunity was presented here
deve10p among individuals of all ages a desire .-
the well-being which comes with a sound b
and mind, and to focus attention on the import
of keeping-the body and mind always alert ;
healthy.

The physical fitness entertainment was one
several “Victory Week” programs conducted
this Lower East Side Settlement House.

Some Further Suggestions

Activities. Groups can be stimulated in phy '
activities through social recreation games, dan
(square dancing, modern, and folk), and ath
and sport discussions.

Literature may be displayed to show the i
portant role that sleep plays in maintaining fit

An interesting program can be developed aro
a special supper night program. Members r
prepare their own-foods under competent g
ance. It can be shown that eating simple, 1»:
balanced meals and proper foods will contrib
to vitality and resistance. Children and ad
need simple practical directions for eating the rig

HELPING YOUNG AMERICA KEEP FIT 301

kinds of food. Good nutrition is not a question of
having an eXpensive diet, because essential foods
can be purchased cheaply.

A program of benefit to all members concerned
would deal with the maintaining of “high morale”
during these troubled days. How the strain of
war affects mental health and, to offset it, the
importance of including both work and play in a
balanced daily program may be told the group.

The promotion of first aid classes and demon-
strations of first aid in the gymnasium will stimu—
late interest in physical fitness.

The importance of taking good care of the eyes
and teeth can be shown by giving data on draftee
rejections due to these defects. Visual aids can be
utilized here.

Physical strength tests can be utilized especially
with the senior groups. Use the slogan, “Keep fit
through exercise.” Many of the programs sug-
gested can be dramatized.

Speeches on physical fitness and health may be
used to arouse the interest of club members in
new activities.

Projects to Include in the Program. The follow—
ing projects can afford the clubs interesting ma-
terial in deve10ping a physical fitness program:

A club newspaper on health and physical fitness.

A scrapbook on fitness which may include many
items of interest to the club.

Special activities, such as sponsoring a dance
for the draftees of the agency, parties and socials.

Fund raising for the U.S.O. or the Army or
Navy relief.

The development of new hobbies by the club
members.

A contest based on a health and physical fitness
theme.

Correspondence exchange with another club.

Organization of a fitness club for leaders at the
completion of a physical fit-
ness program (members to
wear insignias).

Posters, exhibits, drama—
tizations, carnivals, and social
recreation should be utilized
as publicity for the stimula-
tion of many of these proj-
ects and activities. Anec-
dotes, chalk talks, demonstra-
tions, lectures, comparisons
with the armed forces and

llIt is generally recognized that fitness
means physical strengthl organic vigor.
and endurance. but it is not always ap-
preciated that fitness is not alone physi-
calI involving as it does mental and emo-
tional ad iustment. Whatever the concept,
and whatever the means used to attain
the obiective of a complete personalityI
one thing is essential: that physical il-
literacy shall be banished from this land
and America shall have a nation of
physically educated boys and girls.ll

with other countries, physical tests, stressing of
one’s own records rather than competition against
someone else, can be used to stimulate groups and
individuals to take part in a physical fitness pro-
gram. The methods selected will depend both on
the physical director’s techniques and knowledge
and on other phases of the program.

When Peace Comes

The field of health and physical education is now
playing a vital part in the national defense program
of the United States and it therefore becomes
necessary to plan a. long-time program in which
health, physical education, and recreation are ac-
cepted as bases for constructive, happy, and com—
plete living in time of peace as well as war. The
following wartime health and physical education
principles are suggested:

A health examination for all members taking
part in the health and physical education program,
and the inculcation of accepted desirable health
habits for members.

A corrective program based on individual needs
and the rehabilitation of IB selectees for the
United States Army and correction of all possible

defects of members eligible for the United States
armed forces. ’

General precautions against accidents. Stress
the slogan, “Every accident is a potential loss of
time and manpower to our country during this
crisis.”

Teaching of first aid as an integral part of the
program.

Acceptance of age, sex, ability, and physical
limitations of the individual as a guide for program.

Teaching of fundamentals of swimming to every
individual participating in the program.

Stressing of combative sports'in the activities
of boys and young men. '

Participation of as many boys and girls as pos—
sible in a program of intra-

mural sports.

Emphasis on those activi-
ties that will increase strength,
agility, and physical stamina.

Stressing of activities hav-
ing potential morale-building
qualities such as courage, in—
itiative, team play, and lead-
ership. ’

These principles upon

(Continued on page 312)

Recreation uOn lts Own"

ANY A SMALL commu-
M nity would bedaunted
by the prospect of
furnishing year-round rec-
reation for I 1,000 people on
a budget of $4,300 which
allowed only $3I0 for sup-
plies and equipment, with
$250 for repairs and main-
tenance on all of the areas,
summer and winter. Our town had exactly this
problem and solved it!

If we were to provide an adequate well-
rounded program with the funds allotted, certain
things had to be done. It was imperative to secure
the active cooperation of community groups and
to insure the participation of the various indus-
tries and the town departments. Not only in-
genuity and resourcefulness but hard manual work
had to be applied to the situation if the department
was to have the areas and equipment necessary for
effective functioning.

Newspaper appeals secured from the generous
townspeople more than half the tools in the Rec-
reation Department’s shop. Tennis rackets and
nets, skis, baseballs and bats, dozens of old radios
for radio club work, a child’s ping-pong table and
paddles—these and many other pieces of equip-
ment were donated to help fill the gaps. A former
industrial softball league allotted the balance of its
treasury to help finance another league. Used
shuttlecocks came from the badminton club. As a
result, the Recreation Department has not bought
so much as one for its players.

Local industrial plants responded promptly and
generously. One firm has furnished every bad-
minton racket we have—for nothing. It has sup-
plied in addition tennis paddles, box hockey sticks
and, during certain hours, has opened‘its tennis
courts to the public. Other firms have furnished
free of charge gallons of paint, wood. for shop

which

work, and occasionally have bought other ma- -.

terials for us at cost.

To make night ice-skating
safe at one of our rinks, we
borrowed an old automobile
headlight and installed a 150-
watt bulb. The local utility

302

By FREDERICK MARTIN

Director of Recreation

BrattleboroI Vermont

$4,300 could never have bought
the services and facilities
community cooperation
has provided for Brattleboro

To balance a budget without money
seems almost to be in the realm of
magic, but it can be done. Commu-
nity cooperation. resourcefulness,
and hard worl: will perform miracles.

company attached it to one
of their poles, provided free
electricity, and—night skat-
ing became a reality. Each
year the highway depart-
ment supplies a good sized
shanty and a stove for chilled
skaters. Not only this,
but they provided trucking
and labor to erect it. This
department has loaned us everything from a steam
roller to shovels, and frequently builds equipment
we otherwise would not have. The water,
welfare, fire, and police departments come to our
rescue frequently in many ways. We always re-
quest advice and, when feasible, incorporate it in
our plans. This may account in part for their
willingness to cooperate.

Staff members, too, have rolled up their sleeves
and gone to work. Each year with borrowed
tools, materials at cost, and helpful advice, they
repair our portable beach equipment and even
make innovations. A sturdy backstop built for
the price of wire and a few bolts is another of
their successful projects. Playground swings were
taken down and replaced in a new and safer way.
Two outdoor, multiple-use playing surfaces—for
tennis, badminton, volleyball, and similar games—
have been made. A local fraternal organization
gave us a dozen large benches which we repaired
and painted, and supplied basketball hoops when
we were building our court. Staff members con-
structed the backboards, made some nets, and
painted the lines. The court is minimum regula-
tion size and is in constant demand by junior
leagues.

Our proudest accomplishment is an electric
phonograph used for dancing classes and parties.
With old radio equipment and a hand—crank vic-
trola, the staff built for next to nothing what would
cost $100 to buy. These are only a few of the
things achieved in our town, but they are indica-
tive of the resources of any
community which cooperative
effort may tap for the benefit
of all.

To balance a budget without

(Continued on page 308)

  
   
   

WORLD AT PLAY

THE Community Fund
and Council of Greater
Peoria, Peoria, Illinois,
has issued a mimeo-
graphed bulletin designed to serve as a guide to
the recreational facilities and activities available in
the city of Peoria during the summer of 1942. The
guide suggests that the rationing of tires and
gasoline and the limitations on traveling will keep
folks closer home. “They will have an opportunity
to really get to know and enjoy Peoria’s own
beautiful parks and playgrounds and to take ad-
vantage of the excellent summer programs offered
by the local agencies.” Detailed information is
given in the guide regarding all public and private
facilities, hours during which they are open, the
fees, and other items of interest.

What Shall We Do
This Summer?

 

SEATTLE, Washington,
has been particularly
fortunate during the
past few years in re-
ceiving gifts for improvements to,recreation areas
and facilities. These gifts have been in addition
to properties of the City Council and services of
the VVPA. The University District Community
Club, for example, has contributed $1,000 to sup-
plement the city’s appropriation of $3,500 for the
rehabilitation of University Playground, in opera-
tion since 191 I. Donations for other improvements
have come*from such organizations as the West
Seattle Commercial Club, the Magnolia Playfield

Association, and Roosevelt PTA. and high school
students. ‘

Improving Seattle’s
Recreation Areas

 

 

TWO courses in popu-
lar zoology are con:
ducted for adults, one
in Philadelphia, the
other in New York City. “Animals at the Zoo,”
sponsored by the Philadelphia Zoo in collaboration
with Junot, Philadelphia’s Adult School, was first
to get under way. Tuition fee for a ten week
course is $3.00, {including admission to the 200.
The Bronx Zoo’s course, “P0pular‘Zoology,” be-
gan on February 7th and met weekly (except dur-
ing the Easter period) until May 16th. The New
York City Board of Education allows two alert—
ness credits to teachers who complete the c0urse
and pass the final examination. The registration
fee is $10.

Zoo Courses Given
for Adults

 

For Distinguished SEFRETARY of‘ the In—
- terlor Harold L. Ickes
'._ Park Sermce #

. ‘ has been awarded the
' gold Cornelius Amory
Pugsley Medal for Distinguished Park Service in
the United States this year, by the American
Scenic and Historic Preservation Society. The
Society’s silver Pugsley Medal has been awarded
this year to Arthur A. Demaray, associate director
of the National Park Service, and the bronze
Piigsley Medal to Miss Harlean James, executive
secretary of the American Planning and Civic
Association. 
’ Mr. Ickes won his medal for his “indefatigable
support of the National Park Service”. during his
tenure of office. The awarding of the medal to
Mr. Demaray recognizes his many years of ser:
vice to the nation’s parks, and Miss James has
long'played an important role in park and munici-
pal improvement in the United States. ’

 

THE Park Department
of Grand F orks, North
Dakota, and the Grand
- Forks Herald are spon—
soring a Victory Garden Contest, the object of
which is to make it popular for everyone to grow
a garden of flowers or vegetables or both. News-
paper publicity includes an entry blank. The park
board office will supply advice and recommenda-
tions to any who want it and will have charge of
the two inspections planned before the. final judg-
ing. Mrs. M. B. Kannowski, Superintendent of
Parks, writes: “We are not advocating large gar-
dens, or‘attempting anything that cannot be done
without pleasure and benefit to the family. It is
purely amateur and is done to stimulate an inter-
est in gardening as an esthetic and practical lei-
sure time occupation, as well as a wartime conser—
vation measure. The prizes are to be War Savings
Bonds and Stamps, contributed by various busi—
ness houses in the city.”

A Victory Garden
' Contest

A SPECIAL community-
wide committee, in-
cluding among its six
sponsors representa—
tives of the Recreation Board and the Y.M.C.A.,

is offering to give every boy about to enter any
form of armed service an opportunity to learn to

swim without cost.

Developments in
Canton, Ohio

303

304 WORLD AT PLAY

*
** *‘k

* DIAMOND’S 1k
PART in the WAR

About ninety per cent of our tactory's
output is for Army. Navy. and Air
Corps use. We are working 24 hours
a day. 7 days a week to help supply
tools tor the war machine.

Such all-out effort is necessary in
spite of the sacrifices of civilian busi-
ness. We're in a war and we're in TO

WINI When that job is done. it'll be
back to BUSINESS AS USUAL.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE 00.

“HO Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

     
  

*
1k

1k
*

Canton has a new three-acre playground called
the “Lee Playground” in honor of Joseph Lee. A
much larger athletic field laid out with three soft—
ball diamonds for league play is known as “Lee
Field.” Each summer special activities are planned
in celebration of Joseph Lee Day.

Mayor of New York to Live in Park—The
Mayor of the greatest city in the United States is
living in a park. The Department of Parks has
just completed the reconstruction of Gracie
House and its immediate surroundings in Carl
Schurz Park in New York City as the official per-
manent residence of the Mayor of the city of New
York and his successors.

Gracie House was erected in 1770 and stands
on a rocky point of land in a bend of the East
River. The prOperty was condemned for park
purposes in 1891. It was first called East River
Park, but was later renamed Carl Schurz Park
for the German Revolutionary and close friend of
Abraham Lincoln. One of the most recent addi-
tions to the park is the John Finley Walk, erected
in memory of John Finley who is so well known
in the national recreation movement because of his

many years of service as a board member and an
oliicer of the National Recreation Association.
The new deveIOpment of the grounds around
the Mayor's house was planned for utmost sim-
plicity and economy and harmonizes with the
building and surroundings of the entire park.

“Council Coverall”—Sacramento’s city-wide
Playground Council of boys and girls is issuing an
attractive monthly bulletin called the C oimcil
Coverall. Twelve children serve on the editorial
staff of the bulletin.

Park Developments—The Metropolitan Park
Board of Toledo, Ohio, has had a number of im—
portant gifts of property. Recently a bequest of
$60,000 was received for additional park land.

Stuart Patterson Park in Dayton, Ohio, has an
interesting history. Mrs. E. M. Kiser, a public-
spirited citizen who had enjoyed the property per-
sonally in her earlier years, raised about $12,000
with which the land was purchased and then
deeded to the city. Thus the property was saved
as a park and recreation area for citizens.

Neighborhood Survey—The following out-
line, reports the March 1942 Youth Leaders
Digest, is suggested by Helen Greenebaum of
Hamilton House, New York City, to help settle-
ment house or community center leaders organize

about their neighborhood:

1. Map of physical features of the neighborhood.

2. Economic characteristics: industries, housing, rent
range, vacant areas.

3. Social Agencies and the personnel of these agencies.

4. Organized neighborhood groups: social, religious
and national.

5. Leisure-time activities: money spent on recreation,
use of radios, newspapers, magazines, cinema thea-
ters, pool halls, saloons, etc.

6. Customs and mores: festivals, gangs—neighborhood

tradition.

7. Employment: degree of unempIOyment, kinds of oc-
cupations of those employed—employed locally or at
distances?

8. Business enterprises.

Tot Safety School—The first tot safety school
in Cleveland was opened just after the close of the
summer playground season on August 28, 1941.
The W'ooclland Hills hard surfaced playground
was the site. Streets, sidewalks, and cross walks
were painted on the black surface with white and
yellow paint, A traffic light that actually worked
was installed at the intersection of the two “main”
streets. Ten pedal automobiles were purchased,
and children learned to ride on the correct side of
the street. They also learned what each color of

WORLD AT PLAY 305

the traffic light signified and learned pedestrian
safety as well as driving safety. The program in-
cluded handcraft, singing games, and safety games.
The automobiles served to attract the children and
kept them interested in coming regularly.

The Division of Recreation furnished the two
playground leaders and the supervision. Other
city departments, the Department of Public Re-
lations of the Police Department and the Juvenile
Bureau (Division of Child Safety), also cooperated
with the project. Plans for conducting three
schools_ simultaneously during the 194.2 summer
playground season have been completed—From
1941 Annual Report, Division of Recreation.

An Annual May Ball—The St. Paul Play-
ground Young People’s Clubs put on their semi-
formal party dresses, “best suits,” and best man-
ne‘rs for the annual May ball which is held each
year at the St. Paul Hotel ballroom. These five
hundred young people look forward to this event
as the highlight of their social season.

The St. Paul Hotel management each year has
given the use of the ballroom, gratis; the Musi-
cians’ Union has given permission to the WPA
. orchestra to play for the dance, and the Vocational
School has printed the invitations at cost. Each
club, of which there are twelve, contributes $3.00
toward the ball to pay for invitations, dance pro—
grams, Hoor show, and prizes. Invitations are
given free to all members who, in turn, may in-
vite one friend.

It is an inspiring sight to watch these young
people between fifteen and eighteen years of age
enjoying themselves to the utmost in surroundings
that are pleasing and wholesome.

At the End of the Course—On June 26th,
against a background of American flags, 104 men
and women were awarded diplomas and colorful
evacuee camper armbands as graduates of the first
evacuee camper training course conducted by the
Buffalo Museum of Science. Plans were made for
a permanent organization of evacuee campers to
which the 252 enrolled in the course are eligible.
It is expected that groups all over the city and
county and in adjacent counties will be developed
under the leadership of graduates of this course.

Playgrounds for Grownups—This summer
day for forty to seventy-five campers; 10 cents
adults are receiving special attention at the public
playgrounds of Hempstead, Long Island, for on
Monday and Wednesday evenings from 6 :30 until

MER-KILL PC 15
135,155,735. ATHLETES FOOT

suits . . . will not damage. Approx. cost only 3c per gal. of
working solution. Write for sample and information.

I mER~RIL cutmlcnt PRODUCIS compnm

 

 I07 North Wocker Drive Chicago Illinous

dark there is special entertainment for them. The
stage is set at the high school field where activities
include handball, badminton, volleyball, horseshoe
pitching, and softball.

Playgrounds for Little Tots—mThe Depart-
ment of Parks of New York City has opened three
playgrounds for little children in the city’s historic
Washington Square Park. Furnished with kinder-
garten and play apparatus, these fence—enclosed
paved areas, which are located as near as possible
to park entrances, intercept children who formerly
spent their energy in the park to the detriment of
lawns, shrubbery, and park facilities. One of the
play areas, located at the south boundary of the
park, has been equipped with two slides, one pipe
frame exercise unit, a battery of swings, free play
area, and sixteen bench units. A high wrought-
iron fence, set in concrete curbing extending
around the semi-circular plot, is bordered by a
screen planting of European hornbeams and Ori—
ental planes. This material will develop to form a
screen which will hide the playground from the in-
terior park development. The other two areas,
which are approximately 70’ by 100’, are en-
closed by new wrought-iron fencing and have
single gate controlled entrances connecting with
existing park walks. Each has been provided with
the following kindergarten apparatus: irrigated
sand pit with benches around three sides; two
slides; four seesaws ; and batteryof chair swings.
Boundary. plantings designed for screen purposes
are similar to those of the first playground de—
scribed. Existing trees have been retained for
shade purposes.

In Cleveland Heights, Ohio—Gardening is
proving a very popular activity in Cleveland
Heights. There are about 1,200 boys and girls
registered for tract gardens, and there will be
between 700 and 1,000 home gardens. Earle D.
Campbell, Director of Recreation, has enlisted the
interest of the PTA group in this project, and
volunteers from this agency will make two or three
visits to each home garden during the season.

306 STORYTELLING STEPS ONTO A SUiTCASE STAGE

For Your Victory Sings

Now available—Nos. 1 and 2 of the

Victory Sing series:

No. l—Let's Sing the Same Songs
(Words and music for twenty patriotic and
folk songs)

Single copies, $.05 each: $2.50 per IOO.
plus carrying charge

No. Z—Seven Hymns for Everyone

(Words and music of seven hymns selected
with the help of religious leaders from every

faith)
Single copies. $.02 each; $I.|0 per IOO

***

Order trom

National Recreation Association

3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

Some Recent Publications on Play—The
Play Schools Association, 1841 Broadway, New
York City, has issued some publications which
will be of interest to recreation workers. These
are: A Handbook on Play School: for Group
Leaders and Teachers (Plans—Procedures—Ma-
terials—for the All-Day Care and After~School
Hours of Children), 15 cents; Play Material Made
from l/Vaste, by Clara Lambert, 15 cents; and
What Parents Are Saying in War Time, a Digest
of Group Discussions by Jean Schick Grossman,
20 cents. Copies of these may be ordered from
the Play Schools Association.

Storytelling Steps Onto a

Suitcase Stage
(Continued from page 286)
bits of leather. Backgrounds were made from
strips of drawing paper or of wall paper cut to fit
the box (with no effort at curving for perspective),
and colored with paints or Crayolas.

But simple and inexpensive as the cigar box
storytelling stage was, a yet simpler and cheaper
one was later evolved. This was the shoe box
storytelling stage, fashioned from an ordinary
cardboard shoe box. The lid was placed upon

a table and the box set in it lengthwise. A back-
ground was drawn with Crayolas on what was.
originally the bottom of the box and its ends,‘
and there was the stage. Figures cut from maga-l
zines or drawn by the children, colored ant

mounted on cardboard, were used in both th
cigar box and the shoe box storytelling stages. 11
neighborhoods where every penny counts, the

two inexpensive stages have been useful and popu
lar. Any paper or wooden box can be used.

   
  
  
   
 
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

Making the Storytelling Stage

The storytelling stages have been worthwhile, bu
now, with the advent of our country into war, thei
range of usefulness promises to be extended.
plan has been worked out whereby they may
used for the entertainment of children in the even
a disaster makes it necessary for them to remai
for a considerable time inside a darkened room 0
hallway. The following directions and drawin
explain how storytelling stages can be constructe
and lighted.

The material for making the storytelling sta
illustrated may be 544” plywood (which can be ob
tained from scrap piles of cabinet shops or lumbe
yards), hinges, latches and handles (which may
purchased at a dime store), stain, shellac, and nail
The tools required are a hammer, saw, and scre
driver. The box pictured resembles a suitcase an
may be made by an amateur craftsman. It requir
two pieces of wood 16” x 20” for back and fron
two pieces 20”x 5%” for ends. The top and
tom are nailed to the end pieces, box fashion, 111
less it is to be finished with stain or shellac,
which case it might be well to miter the corner
Just inside the two end pieces a small strip of we
IA ” x % ” can be tacked to hold scenery in plac
At one end place a piece of metal to act as a H
for removing the scenery. Metal handles can
fastened to the top of the box with small scre
Hinges (of metal or leather) should be fasten
so as to allow the lid to lie fiat on the table wh
it is opened.

Either of two methods may be used in nnislii
the case. One is to use wood stain and two
three coats of thin shellac, rubbing and polishii
the case. Another method is the use of imitat'
leather, which can be purchased from craft n
terial shops. This should be put on with iron g1
heated to make it stick more firmly.

In a blackout, the case could be fitted wi

lights, such as a string of small Christmas tr
lights. Cut a piece of plywood 3” x 10” to whi

NATIONAL PADDLE TENNIS TOURNAMENT 307

National Paddle Tennis

Tournament

HE UNITED STATES Paddle Tennis Association,
in cooperation with the Parkchester Recreation
Department, 77 Metropolitan Oval, Bronx, New
York City, announces the men’s and women’s Open
championships, National Paddle Tennis Tourna-
ment, beginning August 22, 1942, at II :00 A. M.
Finals will be held August 29th at 2 :00 P. M. Cups
will be awarded to winners ; medals to runners-up.
An entry fee of 50 cents is asked for singles;
$1.00 for double team. Checks accompanying the
application should be made payable to the United
States Paddle Tennis Association, Madison Square
Boys’ Club, 312 East 30th Street, New York City.
Entries close August 15, 1942.

Official Entry Blank

Please enter me in the Men’s National Open-Paddle Ten-
nis Championships (singles). I enclose 50¢ for entry fee.

Please enter us in the Men’s National Open—Paddle
Tennis Championships (doubles). We enclose $1.00 for
entry fee.

Please enter me in the Women’s National Open-Paddle
Tennis Championships (singles). I enclose 50¢ for
entry fee.

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1942

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tel. . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Record . . . . . . . . . . . .

Name of Teammate (for doubles) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address ...‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Record . . . . . . . . . . . .

Signatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

 

to tack the lights. This piece of wood may he
slipped into slots provided for this purpose in the
t0p of the case. The light from a flashlight, held
so it illuminates the stage, may also be used.

Singing for Victory
(Continued from page 284)

Special talent in singing and playing might be
given its opportunity during the fifth week, the
children making their selections of songs from
“Let’s Sing the Same Songs.”

The organization of special choral groups could
advantageously be stressed during the sixth week.
These groups, which would give an entertainment
for the public on one of the regular community
programs, might select for the occasion some of
the new and unfamiliar songs in the booklet.

1 A©W 11%» ATHLETIC

‘m EQUIPMENT

m: '23 a .1 it" Rmer 3m 15:" HS!" 81.10: Water"?
Err-mi 189 'l meal]. 533...] J

 

The special music feature of the seventh week
could be an amateur musical program on the order
of Major Bowes’ radio program.

For the eighth week the suggestion is offered
that the boys and girls test out their skill in writ-
ing safety songs or parodies on some of the songs
in “Let’s Sing the Same Songs” or others of their
own choosing.

Make the ninth and final week “Music Festival
Week,” when all the musical talents and achieve-
ments of the playgrounds are brought to a climax.

For a Wartime Program

(Continued from page 282)

Nation against nation, people were pitted
In a fierce struggle

Unto the death.

And when it was over, the lighting stopped,
The conquered vanquished, the victors
Triumphant and proud.

Each time they buried their glorious dead,
And started to build again

For another war.

We are again engulfed in the fiery
Maelstrom of war.

Our beliefs,

Our very existences are threatened,

As yours were,
Each time before.

These things are endangered—

Untroubled confidence, hope, love,

A young man’s dream of the future,
Security, freedom for men to live and think
As they believe.

Things we believe precious,

More precious than life itself,

Are in peril of never being again
On this earth.

Methods other than war have been tried—
Attempts to reason, to preserve the peace,
And keep our way of life intact.

But men have blundered.

Peaceful men have failed.

Therefore,
War.

You troubled souls, who cannot rest in peace
Because you feel that you have died

In vain,

Listen,

Listen to our vows.

Our country is fighting for our beliefs,
For us.

We must fight for our country.

Now is our time

To sacrifice.

308 JANE ADDAMS

Some of us will work upon the land

And toil .

To bring from good brown earth _
The food that‘shall give life - J
To men. ~ . .

Some of us will work in industry, a -
\Vork the fruits of the earth into Weapons, .
That the earth itself may be free.

Work the hard, glittering steel into arms,

Guns, ships, planes, tanks.

Give the sweat of our brows

To the arsenal of democracy._
Our Yankee creative labors will show the world

Again,

As they have before,

That we Americans are not really lazy, soft,
As some would have it known.

Some of us will school our minds,

Train ourselves to understand,

Enable us to build faster, better

Guns, ships, planes, tanks,

Enable us to understand man and work upon his problems
\Vith a more enlightened mind.

Enable us to reason, hold off,

Prevent war’s coming again

As it has always come before.

Some of us will stay at home,

Keep love alive, laughter and song,
The ways of men that have outlived
\Vars, empires, destruction.

That when it has gone again,

As it has always gone before,

There will be something

To return to.

Some of us will join your ranks, 0

Silent thousands,

Drowning in an oily sea in the black of night,
Forever lost in the flash of 'a shell burst,
Plummeting from the skies in a blazing plane,
Knowing the terror of bombs in the night,
Having tried to do our job so well

That it will never come again,

As it has always come before.

It is a hard job we have to do.

There will be times when the future will seem black.
\Ve shall be engulfed in waves of despair.

At these times we shall think of you.

You, who have done what we must do.

To you we say this—

This time, when it is over,

\Ve shall not forget you.

\Ve shall carry on, with freedom-loving men of every nation.
Until the seeds of hate are destroyed,

Until other things grow in their place—

Peace, understanding,

Love of man for his neighbor.

Recreation "On Its Own"
(Continued from page 302)
money is in the realm of magic, but it can be done,

as we discovered. In short, community coopera-
tion, ingenuity, and enthusiasm will perform
miracles.

It's Being Done In Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 298)
Mountaineering. “Suggestions for Appalachian

Trail Users.” Appalachian Trail Conference, 1624
H Street, N.\V., W'ashington, D. C. 25 cents.

' carried of the spirit into the wilderness.” He

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
      
  

Jane Addams

EPTEMBER 6th will be the birthday of Jan
Addams who served for so many years as
leader in the National Recreation Association.
all her life and work she did much to bring a .
a better understanding of the spirit of youth,
the natural and normal desires of young pe
of what recreation could mean in the life of
neighborhood, the city, the nation. Though 9
much of her work was done at Hull House '
Chicago, her influence extended over the en'
United States and over the world at large.
Might it not be well for recreation systems '
many cities on September 6th to pause for
moment to consider all that Jane Addams’ life .
work meant’because she belonged in such a -
special way to the national recreation moven - '

Muir, John (1838-1914) was born in Scot - :
He came to America (1849), worked eleven y
on his father’s farm, worked in a factory, trav
and wrote. When asked how he organized an '
ploring expedition, he replied: “I put a loaf a
bread and a pound of tea in an old sack and ju
over the back fence.” we need more of Mu'
Spartan attitude today. His Thousand-Mile-W
to the Gulf (Houghton, Mifflin, 1916) was
nature hike from Wisconsin to Florida. He c
ered twenty-five miles a day. Two days before .
journey he wrote in a letter about the powe
impulse which caused him to be “doomed to

sorry for Emerson, who visited him in Yosem'
because “petticoat government” forbade him
hike. A blacksmith told him that “picking bloss
doesn’t seem to be a man’s work at all in any '
of times.” Muir replied: “Christ says, ‘Cons'
the lilies.’ You say, ‘Don’t consider them.’ ”
Orchids. Ten thousand orchid plants value
$75,000 have recently been given to the New Y
Botanical Garden, which already had 700 s
and varieties. \Vorld conditions now make
of these unobtainable. Restrictions in some c
tries prevent excessive orchid collecting. Orc
fanciers are recreating on a high plane.
“Petrijied Forest,” National Monument in A
zona, is described in a fifteen page folder 1
map. \Vrite National Park Service, Washi
D. C.
' Roadsides. The Mohawk Trail and the grd
highway to Cape Cod, both scenic, are free from
billboards. Public opinion was an important factor

Q

DR. HAROLD G. CAMPBELL 309

x

I Dr. Harold 6. Campbell

DR. HAROLD G. CAMPBELL, New York City
' Superintendent of Schools, died on June 17,
1942, at the age of 58. Dr. Campbell was always
a good friend of the recreation movement. He
himself had been active in athletics when a student.
He served as a member of the New York City
committee which held public hearings on the wise
use of leisure. He was glad always to help to build
up the recreation movement.
Dr. Campbell's common sense, his moral cour-
age, his practical ways of doing things made him
a valuable friend.

as was a Supreme Court opinion that “signs would
be particularly harmful to the public welfare.”
Favorite vacation and recreation areas have to
maintain a standard.

“Rubber, The Romance of.” U. S. Rubber
Company, Box 12, Station G, New York City.
46 page booklet. Free. Interesting and timely.

Sequoias. The General Grant Tree, a sequoia

. in King’s Canyon National Park, is the “Nation’s

I Christmas Tree.” It is 35 feet in diameter, 107
feet in circumference, 267 feet high, and 84 feet to
the first limb. This early American has witnessed
Christmas carols since 1925.

“Soil Defense in the Pacific Southwest,” U. S.
Department of Agriculture, Farmers’ Bulletin No.
1848. 55 pp. 15 cents. This illustrated pamphlet
deals with defense measures in action. A'broad
view of defense which includes such topics as Sea-
Going Soil.

No Blackout for the Arts

(Continued from page 266)
which they live. Life at its best is filled with dis-

tractions, with sufferings, with intimations of de—
feat. What is true of life in peacetime is simply
more acutely true in time of war.

But there are longer-range reasons for continu-
ing the essential services of the arts during war-
time. These have to do with both the public and
the creative artist. Not the least tragedy of war-
time is the blackout of precisely those aspects of
life we call civilized, of the finest fiowerings of
human freedom. This is a real danger if the con-
flict lasts at all long: that before it is over we shall,
in order to meet the aggressor in full force, have
to imitate his habits so completely that we shall be
indistinguishable from him.

There is a fifth freedom for which we are fight-

ing, which in a democratic civilization is the flow—
ering of the four freedoms of which the President
has spoken. Political freedom is simply the politi—
cal conditions for creative liberty, the freedom of
being richly and fully one’s self, which is the es-
sence of the democratic faith. What is the ulti-
mate good of freedom of speech, of worship, of
freedom from fear and freedom from want? Their
good is that they permit people to be fully and
freely themselves.

Now it is in the creation and in the experience
of the arts that the human spirit is most fully and
freely itself. Creation is a name for a new and
individual way of looking at and rendering and
sensing human existence. Part of the tonic effect
of the arts is that it enables those of us who are
not geniuses to share something of the spontaneity
and freshness of unhampered and creative, unop-
pressed and self-disciplined personalities. It is
no accident that in the totalitarian countries, since
the advent of Hitler and Mussolini, the creative
arts have suffered. .

There are two good reasons, from the point of
view of tyrannical regimes, why the arts are
suspect and not encouraged to flourish. The first

“is that the artist in any art is by definition an

original. He is not a stereotype, he is not a robot.
He puts things in his own way; arranges things
after his own fashion. That is why creative talents
like Hindemith and Mann could not live in the
Germany of Hitler. It is why the great burst of
creative energies in the theater, in the novel, in
music of post-war Germany came to a catastrOphic
halt with Hitler. Originality, freshness, independ-
ence, even in styles of art, are dangerous and revo—
lutionary to a regime that wishes its citizens to be
not men but machines.

Secondly, the arts deliberately celebrate those
aspects of life which are distinctively human. The
artistic tradition is not for nothing called human-
istic. Everything that the arts promote in their
devotees or their practitioners is the opposite and
the opponent of the brutal. They put a premium
upon delicacy of feeling, upon humanity of out—
look. Even the great artists of traditional Germany
were great celebrants of the common humanity of
all mankind. Beethoven in his Ninth Symphony,
Goethe throughout his writing, spoke the language
of humanity, did not talk as the arrogant voices
of the master race. .

In the grim resort to arms we have been forced
to make, it is important to keep alive in our civili-
zation those things which remind us of the power

310 PLAYING HOST TO COMMUNITY GROUPS

of love as the love of power. While we are de-
fending civilization it is imperative that we keep
civilization alive in our feelings, in our minds and
hearts. As long as people create and are given a
chance to be moved by creation, the spirit of free
men will be kept alive and free. \Ve burn the
books and silence the violins, blackout line and
color at our own peril. The soul of our civilization
will have died even though our cities are not
scarred by bombs and our civilian bodies are left

unscathed.

"At Home" on Staten Island
( C outinqu from' page 281)

He was one of the Rough Riders in the American
Cavalcade at the \Vorld’s Fair.

But these are only a few of the many boys up-
rooted from their native environment who came to
the Center to participate in the fun and recreation.

Nice boys all of them— just boys from back
home—sometimes from every state in the Union.
From every walk in life they come—amateur act-
ors and some professionals, too, musicians, artists,
architects, machinists, electricians, farmers, and
even poets.

By September 15, 1941, Staten Island Center
had entertained approximately 2,500 service men
each month at the Center’s building. Seventy
women had donated one full day’s service each
week, 150 members of the Junior Auxiliary had
acted as hostesses during the week.

Members of the committee and the Junior and
Senior Auxiliaries have been untiring in their ef-
forts. From March 17, 1941, to March 8, 1942,
these people contributed 58,240,000 hours of ser-
vice to the Center. At present there are over 350
volunteers registered with the Center. Reinforc-
ing the services of the volunteers is the profes-
sional staff. Together they have served as refresh-
ment committees, receptionists, clerical helpers,
checking committees, dancing partners, and in-
structors, leaders and helpers in social functions.
During the past year more than 25,000 service
men have been registered at the club. The ma-
jority of these were served refreshments provided
by the members of the committee who have been
tireless in serving the kind of food “mother used
to make.”

Many personal services have been performed by
members of the Center’s staff. These have in-
cluded arranging for house accommodations for
families of men in service; locating relations; ar-
ranging for overnight accommodations; provision

Playing Host to Community
Groups

'1‘ A TIME when all community groups are en-
deavoring to the best of their ability to aid
in every possible way the defense program, and
particularly the problem of civilian morale, it may
be interesting to other cities to know that in
Birmingham, Alabama, the use of all the facilities
of the Park and Recreation Board has been offered
the civilian defense group. On one day there were
eighty-two separate civilian defense meetings with
an attendance of slightly over 4,200. All these
meetings were held in Park and Recreation Board
buildings—community centers, the golf clubhouse,
and other centers where the Board furnished free
of charge the buildings, chairs, janitor service,|
heat, and light. This was arranged in such a way
as not to interfere to any great degree with the
regular recreation program being carried on at
these different centers.

In spite of war conditions,—the city authorities
of Birmingham have been able to work out an
exchange of areas and facilities between municipal
boards whereby the Park and Recreation Board
has acquired a new park and a new playground
for Negroes which are being developed in a small
way in spite of the fact that major energies ar
directed toward the war effort. A VVPA projec
has been completed involving an expenditure 0
$25,000 to enlarge and make more usable a ne
community “center building.

(From information sent by R. S. Marshall
Superintendent, Birmingham, Alabama, Park an
Recreation Board.)

 
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  

of free writing materials, postage, and mailing ser
vice; supplying of a place to meet friends a1
relatives; planning of week-ends in New Yor
City; giving travel information and legal advic
and receiving mail for the soldiers and sailors.

Special Activities

The Center has conducted some outstanding a
tivities and events during the past six month
Among these were a weekly Wednesday nig
dance, nightly informal dancing, square dancii
once a week, a hobby show, a service men’s r
view, a cartoon drawing contest, a roller skati
party, an all American home-made pie night, speci
holiday parties, a Thanksgiving turkey buffet su
per, and a Christmas day buffet dinner with all th
fixings. There have been moving pictures,

A RECREATIONAL GATEWAY FOR MILLIONS ' 311

weekly dancing class, a community sing, a singing
and piano recital, musical program, and. church
services.

Sports have been prominent in the program. We
have had a weekly sports night, table tennis and
bowling tournaments, weekly badminton games
with instruction by professionals, boxing and a
boxing show, and an exhibition drill by a local
life, drum, and bugle corps.

It is a splendid piece of work the committee is
doing but it is only the beginning. The Staten
Island Center for Active Service Men will con-
tinue to function and expand to provide fun and
relaxation for thousands more enlisted men.

Battle Creek Meets the Challenge

(Continued from page 279)

wives. To provide recreation for this group of
women, a program of gymnastics, games, dancing,
and crafts was set up at a near-by school under
the direction of two recreation leaders. At inter—
vals dances were held for officers and their wives.
The popularity of this program made it necessary
to increase the number and size of classes.

For both men and women, there were golf and
tennis. The managements of Battle Creek’s live
golf courses made special arrangements whereby
they would be open to men and women at all
times, save during tournaments or special matches.
All soldiers and their wives as well as war industry
workers and their wives were invited to partici-
pate in the golf and tennis tournaments annually
conducted by the Department of Civic Recreation
——and many of them did.

Battle Creek attributes the success of its war-
time program to the cooperative spirit of indi-
viduals, and civic and government authorities. In-
dividuals have given liberally and unselfisth of
their time, experience, and services as volunteer
leaders and in helping to plan the program in all
its ramifications. The city’s Board of Education
and many industrial plants have been most gener-
ous in making available gymnasiums and swim-
ming pools. Civic bodies have contributed ma—
terials and funds used for the Red Diamond Sol-
diers’ Club furnishings ; the Battle Creek city gov-
ernment has given facilities and funds for carry-
ing out the program. The Federal government has
contributed no little support. through its WPA
recreation leaders. And last, but far from least,
. has been the financial and physical aid of the W.
K. Kellogg Foundation in making available its
recreation equipment.

A Recreational Gateway
for Millions

RELEASE FROM the Palisades Interstate Park
Commission, Bear Mountain, New York,
.states that this system of public recreation areas
on the west shore of the Hudson River has been
visited by more people than any similar area in the
world. The chain of parks stretching for sixty
miles to Storm King Mountain near the city of
Newburgh, New York, contains seventy-two
square miles both in New York and New Jersey.
More than fifty million persons have enjoyed the
region from the time when the first small wooden
building was erected in the New Jersey section
nearly forty years ago until a busy day last winter
when the largest and one of the most modern
cafeterias ever constructed in a public area was
opened to a crowd of 8,000 people on the ground
floor of Bear Mountain Inn in the principal New
York section of the park.

The parks have grown constantly. In the past
twelve months the parking and picnicking spaces
in the Bear Mountain-Harriman State Park were
increased by fifty per cent. The lowered toll on
the Bear Mountain Bridge brings added thousands
of visitors to the area, and as a result a record
crowd of more than 20,000 witnessed one of the
twelve ski jumping tournaments held during the
winter season of 1941. During the years of develop-
ment since the Park Commission came into being
in 1900, twenty—two lakes have been constructed
for recreational and general park use in the Bear
Mountain-Harriman State Park. Nearly one
hundred organized camp groups have appeared
about the water areas. There are many public
beaches in the various parks, in addition to one of
the largest fresh water swimming pools in the
East. Here national swimming contests are staged.
Rowboating has grown to great proportions with
some 1,200 boats in almost constant operation
during the warmer months. Practically every form
of sport and recreation may be found in Bear
Mountain Park. Roller skating on two large rinks,
indoor and outdoor ice skating, excellent skiing on
slopes and trails, a ski tow, ice boating, toboggan-
ing, hockey, baseball, tennis, archery, and many
other forms of athletic activities are encouraged by
the Park Commission.

The Bear Mountain Trailside Museums are
open to the public without charge every day of the
year. A mile of nature trails winds through the
fifty-seven acre area to inform visitors of the flora

312 SMALL COMMUNITY RECREATION

and fauna of the region by means of many labels
attached to natural objects along the way.

It has been noted that park attendance increases
in direct proportion to world disturbances that tend
to upset people and interfere with normal life
processes. As a result of present-day world condi-
tions, many have learned to journey to the wood-
lands to seek the sure tonic provided by a day in
the open away from the pressure of everyday af-
fairs. The many miles of hiking trails in the Pali-
sades Interstate Park are being used by many more
pe0ple, as are all the facilities provided by the park.

Helping Young America Keep Fit

(Continued from page 301)
which a practical program is built are as sound in
times of“war as in times of peace. They need no
radical changes. \Vhat they do need is intensi-
fication and emphasis upon those aspects most
vitally important to the health and physical wel—
fare of a people at war.

The Day Camp and the Young Citizen
(Continued from page 288)

ing in leadership courses and in actual service has
an important effect on their social coming of age.

Perhaps we do not need to search for new tools
or institutions for teaching citizenship. Possibly
we do not require any equivalent of the Hitler
Youth or of any other youth movement. It may
be that we need only to make an intelligent use
of the tools already at hand.

Small Community Recreation
( Continued from page 297)

recreation which do not need public financial sup-
port so much as public encouragement. Garden-
ing is one of these. In many small communities,
especially in those far from industrial centers,
money is less abundant than time. If such a com-
munity can take pride in its vegetable and Flower
gardens it may become a place distinguished for
its beauty and individuality. Tyler, a small town
on the prairies of western Minnesota, was settled
by Danish people. Although the houses were small
and set on flat rectangular lots fifty feet wide, the
peOple of the community used so much skill and
imagination in planting their gardens that after
thirty-five years the writer looks back to this little

village as one of the most interesting he ever sat
The neighborly exchange of plants, vegetables ‘
flowers, and the discussion of common probl-e
created at least as much neighborly feeling
membership in a golf club. The Dane is by tr '
tion a landscape artist and turns a commonpla
setting into a place of beauty. He finds recreat'
in doing so. In one Ohio community thg gard
club had a committee to appraise vegetable .- :-
flower gardens during the season, and each fall ~
the garden festival prizes were given for the b
use of whatever facilities the gardener had, whethe
little or great.

The feudal, aristocratic attitude, dating back t
Aristotle and before, held that usefulness an
beauty are incompatible. In the ancient democra
tic atmosphere of Switzerland some people kne
better. I recall an evening at the home of a rura
Swiss pastor in the Bernese Oberland. His gar -
was a masterpiece of design, so informal that t
design was invisible. Vegetables and flowers we -
blended in an apparently artless unity. As we 5
in the evening looking across the garden to t
mountains, he remarked, “How beautiful the eve
ning sunlight is on the beet leaves I”

How great in beauty and in recreation Americ
might become if we could but free ourselves fro .
the deadly pall of convention inherited from tawdr
aristocracy, which leads us to feel that useful wor
cannot be recreation, that necessary tasks are mea
and necessary things are ugly. What if America
should treat their gardens as did the Swiss pastor
What if American women should forget fashio
from Paris, Vienna or New York, and each who h
creative ability should qualify herself to design h
own costumes to suit her personality and her wor
whether the resulting style should follow ancie
Egypt or medieval Japan or modern Americ
What an increase of variety and interest, yes, a
recreation in a true sense, might result, tho ;
except for qualified persons the initial ef’forts mig
be far from happy. In such a process skilled le ‘
ership would have more range of action, not less.

NOTE: The extracts presented here were taken fr
Chapter XIX of “The Community: A Guide for t
Study of the Small Community in America," by Arth
E. Morgan. This mimeographed book, prepared for t ’
use of individuals interested in community developm
is published by Community Service, Inc., at Yell
Springs, Ohio, an organization which is devoted to
preservation and strengthening of American communit
life. Single copies of the publication may be secured fo

$3.00.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Storytelling Goes to the
Children's Ward

HE FIRST Pediatric Institute of the New Jersey

Board of Examiners of Nurses was enjoyed
by the four hospitalized children on' the Jersey
City Medical Center’s auditorium platform as
much as by anyone. They returned the gaze of
120 state—wide registered nurses and thirty student
nurses with interest as “A Typical Day in a Chil-
dren’s Ward” began.

The doctors and nurses made their reports. The
children were taken out, one by one, for their
baths. An interne changed a dressing.

For the children the ~height of the program
came when Ruth Tubby arrived from the Mont-
clair (New Jersey) Library and told them three
fascinating stories.

First, there was Emma Brock’s story of Sudden .

Mary, -who moved so abruptly that the plate she
was carrying had no cookies on it by the time it
reached the dining room, and who swept so vio-
lently that the milk bottles standing quietly by the
door went bumping off over the floor. There was
the tale of the Princess and the Pea by Hans
Christian Andersen, with the real Princess tossing

I and turning all night on top of the twenty feather

beds and awaking in the morning black and blue
from the one little pea beneath. And best of all
there was the old tale of the Gunniwolf, from Wil-
helmina Harper's collection, in which the chil—
dren could join each time the refrain repeated
how “the little girl went running off through the
wood, pitta-pat, pitta-pat, and the great brown
wolf followed after, himkercha, hunkercha.”

To the librarian these represented three types
of stories: the natural tale of contemporary child-
hood, the traditional fairy story, and the imagina-
tive animal story in the folk-tale manner. But to
the children it was just a half-hour of delight
which helped them to forget their “ailments.”

Following this part of the program, the nurses
looked at an exhibit of fifty-eight books recom-
mended by Miss Tubby as a nucleus for a hospital
children’s library and a display of occupational
therapy work for children’s hospitals. The after-
noon session consisted of scientific discussions.

So popular was this first eitperimental institute,
it may become an annual event in Jersey City’s
great Medical Center.

313

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker l

      

   

MAGAZINES

American City, June 1942

“America Faces a Wartime Fourth” by Howard
Braucher. Preserving democracy not only by In-
dependence Day celebrations but throughout the
year

“Correct Lighting for Popular Games” by R. J.
Swackhamer

Beach and Pool, June 1942

“How Rochester Operates Its Swimming Pools” by

William J. Cox, Thomas C. Woods, Patrick J.
Slavin, and Chester B. Leake. Other cities can
study this plan to advantage

Crippled Child, June 1942

“Children Love Their Orchestra” by Loretta Maude
Miller. Handicapped children make their own music

“Creative Dramatics for the Crippled Child” by
Hannah Miriam Polster

Jewish Center, June 1942

“The Home Camp in the Jewish Center” by Julian L.
Greifer. Objectives and criteria in program con-
struction helpful to all home and country camp
directors

National Parent-Teacher, June 1942

“Play Is Like This” by C. Madeleine Dixon. The
preschool child and play

“School’s Out! What About Our Children?” by J.
Murray Lee. Summer vacation at home

Nation’s Schools, July 1942
“Hobbies Heighten Morale” by Ross 0. Runnels

Parents’ Magazine, July 1942
“Let’s Go Fishing” Iby Elon Jessup

Parks and Recreation, June 1942

“Park and Recreational Areas in Housing Develop--
ments” by William S. Wiedorn

“Recreation’s Place in the War Effort” by Paul D.
Kneeland

Public Safety, June 1942

“What About War Vacations ?” by Henry F. Mc-
Carthy. Vacation travel forecast

Scholastic Coach, June 1942

“Do’s and Don’ts of Water Safety” 'by Hyman Kra-
kower and Jack Salan

“Your Archery Equipment”

Think, June 1942 -

“America Is Learning to Walk” by Donald Culross
Peattie

“Rediscovering the ‘Old-Time’ Vacation.” Sugges-
trons for spending a “gasless” holiday

PAM PH LETS

A Guide to Private Schools, Colleges, and Summer Camps

by Porter Sargent, 11 Beacon Street, Boston, Massa-
chusetts, price 50 cents

314 “ALL THE PEOPLE”

(Crafts in Wartime

By Marguerite Ickis

0 Here is a novel, attractive,

and useful booklet designed to

meet present needs.

Many factors have been taken
into account in the preparation
of this booklet. The materials
available, the usability and at-
tractiveness of the articles sug-
gested are only a few of these
considerations.

This booklet is a "must" for your
summer playground program!

. . . Price 35 cents

National,Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

Informal Education-Recreation, 1935-1940. A selected

group of addresses and discussions from the annual
South-wide leisure—time conferences
Association of Leisure Time Educators, Nashville,
Tennessee

National Defense and the Public Library by Nell A.
Unger, Katherine Shorey, and others
American Library Association, Chicago, Ill.

Summer Volunteer Service Projects, 1942. Civilian Train-
ing Seminars, \Vork in Social Agencies, Work Camps,
Peace Service Seminars, Service Seminars in Mexico

American Friends Service Committee, 20 South 12th
St., Philadelphia, Pa.

To Parents in Wartime prepared by Children's Bureau,
U. S. Department of Labor. Bureau Publication 282.
Constructive suggestions for helping children

Superintendent of Documents, \Vashington, D. C.,
price 5 cents

Victory Gardens. How Girl Scouts can help to insure
home food supplies

Girl Scouts, Inc., 155 East 44th Street, New York
City, price 5 cents

"All the PeOple"

(Continued from page 273)

and even rhythm bands for the tiny tots. Nor did
music end with graduation. There was the widely
known Amphion chorus, the mothers’ choral or-
ganization, and some mighty fine private musical

 

   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

groups, to say nothing of excellent music at the
college. Along with this, two organizations in th

city had been bringing in concert series during
the winter.

In spite of all this, the committee saw an open-
ing. This was in the field of summer training fo
both vocal and instrumental groups in the recren
tion program. The best instructors from tl '
schools were employed and the schools assist c
by opening buildings and by supplying son '
instruments.

\Vith organization now under way for 1942, i
may seem late to refer to 1941. But those are, 0
course, the last records available. What do the
disclose? That hundreds of boys and girls, rang
ing in ‘age from six to sixteen, were more that
glad to attend summer classes and to participate in

programs which were developed purposely to give
experience.

Space prohibits going into details regarding th
work or the results. But this much may be said
that the vocal division appeared in many I“pr ,
tice” programs in the parks during afternoons, :
several reunions and picnics, in a city-wide pro
gram indoors, on the stage at a regular theate
performance, and, finally, on a state-wide radi
program in Indianapolis. The instrumental grou
followed closely the work done by the vocal divi
sion but managed to add a program at the fair an
another at a big night community gathering.

Just to give variety, the younger division in tl
vocal group had its own rhythm band, music
games, folk songs, and folk dances to add to th
work done by some of the older children.- And t
entire program was carried out under the direct' c
of one man and one woman on a full-time bas'

To make certain that “all the people” were a]
to find recreation in the city program if th
wanted it, the committee did not stop with t
acclaim given its musical division. More boys a
girls were given art instruction out of doors in t
parks than played on junior baseball teams, a
there was an average of one junior team for ea
1,500 population. And as many learned spec'
craft work out of doors as enjoyed both tenn
and horseshocs, this despite all-weather, w
lighted courts for both sports.

Spectators for the performances given by t
music group equalled’the numb-er which turned or

for the all-star baseball finals, and they were j -
as enthusiastic.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Games for Girl Scouts

Girl Scouts, Inc., 155 East 44th Street, New York. $.35.
HIS NEW EDITION of the Girl Scout Game Book in—
cludes many new games which have proved interest-

ing to Girl Scouts. Many of them are adaptations which

the girls themselves have made. The games are classi-
fied under Mixers; Quiz and Memory Games; Paper and

Pencil Games; Especially for Brownies; Games with

Balls, Bean Bags, and ROpes; Relays Without and With

Equipment; Nature Games; Cross-Country and Stalking

Games; Safety-Wise Games; and Winter Outdoor Games.

Recreation workers will find this booklet very helpful.

ID! Home Furnishings and How
to Make Them

By Lucina \Vakefield. Harper & Brothers. $2.50.

WITH SPRING comes the urge to refurbish the house
' from attic to cellar. Miss \Vakefield’s book is
crammed with suggestions for every room. Some of the

' colorful and economical articles described also would.

make ideal gifts. Girls in particular will enjoy these
- projects, many of which require sewing.

A Book of Little Crafts.

By Margaret Powers. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria,
Ill. $2.50.

HE INGENIOUS USE of inexpensive materials and tools

whether to make decorative paper, weave, or ice
cookies, earmarks this delightful craft book for children
from six to twelve. These more than forty “experiments for
fun” with color and design, shapes, sound, and dramatics
were made by actual children. Parents as well as recrea-
tion workers will find this book invaluable in helping
children to learn to use their hands.

Wake Up and Garden!

By Ruth Cross. Prentice~Hall, Inc., New York. $2.95.
HERE IS A COMPLETE month-by-month guide to garden-

ing which shows the average person how to make
the most of his land, whether it is a small plot or acres
around a farm home. The informal way in which the
material is presented, as well as the wealth of practical
information given, makes this an outstanding book in the
field of gardening.

Let's Try Thinking
A Handbook of Democratic Action

By Ivah Deering. The Antioch Press, Yellow Springs,
Ohio. Paper bound, $1.50; cloth bound, $2.50.

MRS. DEERING combines with her understanding of the
process of group thinking an abiding faith in the
intelligence of peOple .and their ability to think things

through when they think together. She expresses her
ideas and convictions in language which is understandable,
and she follows through her suggestions for action with
definite step-by-step procedures.

There are three main sections in her practical handbook.
Part One discusses the nature of democratic leadership
and group thinking. Part Two applies the findings in
detail to many types of organized activity, while Part
Three contains a classified list of suggested discussion
topics and a bibliography.

Party Plans

 Book Publishing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota.

UNDER THIS TITLE three attractive booklets devised by

Blanche Wheeler have been made available. These
include, Wedding Anniversaries; Showers; and Enter-
tainments for Children. All are attractively illustrated by
line drawings and all contain original and interesting
suggestions for activities and menus.

Spanish and Latin American Songs

Arranged by Beatrice and Max Krone. Neil A. Kjos
Music Company, Chicago. $.60.

ERE Is A COLLECTION OF SONGS from Latin American

countries so arranged that they may be sung by
mixed groups as four-part arrangements or may be done
with two equal voices. The Spanish songs are in the
Flamenco style, that of the Spanish gypsy music, and the
accompaniments are designed to suggest the use of the
guitar.

uAttacking on Social Work's

Three Fronts"

By Shelby M. Harrison, General Director of the Russell
Sage Foundation. Russell Sage Foundation, New York.

$.15.
HIS NOTABLE ADDRESS, delivered by Mr. Harrison as
President of the National Conference of Social Work,
May 1942, is a challenge to all who are concerned for
social betterment and who want to use recreation work
as one means for helping to win the war.

Shelby Harrison states that recreation “is not to be
dismissed as merely an adjunct to health service. The
wholesome use of leisure time can do much to correct or
prevent behavior problems and to assist recovery from
the fatigue of monotonous work. Also for vast numbers
of the people it opens new doors to self-realization, to
self-expression in various arts, in handcrafts, in athletic
games, in such practical and such satisfying activities as
equipping and beautifying the home, in civic and social
movements, and in the cultivation Of the religious life.
It offers opportunity for just plain diversion, amusement,
and entertainment. All of these are a part not only of the
healthy life but also of the rich and full life.”.

315

316 NEIV PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Shelby Harrison urges the greatest possible effort to
keep alive the human values and the physical, spiritual,
and cultural service which are essential parts of modern
organized society. He wishes to see a peacetime world
“which will eliminate the worst foes to the general social
welfare and open up new opportunities for richer and
fuller living for all."

Recreation workers like to remember the close co-
operation there was between the National Recreation As-
sociation and the Recreation Department of the Russell
Sage Foundation through so many years. What was done
for recreation by the Russell Sage Foundation under the
leadership of Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick and later for so
many years under Lee F. Hanmer, Clarence Arthur
Perry, and R. K. Atkinson will not soon be forgotten.
In the early days a contribution from the Russell Sage
Foundation helped mightily in getting the National Rec—
reation Association itself started on its way. Recently
John M. Glenn, formerly director of the Russell Sage

the play school, since‘ this program includes many of the
forms of play and informal education adaptable to other
situations. Day camping, playgrounds, trips, gardens, and
community nights are a few of the activities suggested
which will be of interest to recreation workers.

How to Know and How to Use Your Community.

The Department of Elementary School Principals of
the National Education Association. .1201 Sixteenth
Street, N.\V., \Vashington, D. C. $.75.

This publication is designed to present primarily to
school officials the community approach in curriculum
planning. It contains useful data with reference to the:
nature of a community and practical suggestions for con-
ducting studies of community resources. One section de-
voted to community excursions by school groups should
be particularly interesting and suggestive to community
recreation leaders.

The publication of this booklet should not only stimu-

Foundation, said of this contribution: "I think the small
appropriation that was made to the Association by the
Russell Sage Foundation in its early days has perhaps
borne more fruit in proportion to the amount of the grant

late a great interest among school leaders in communityl
resources, including the recreation system, but should also

suggest to community recreation leaders the possibilities '
for c00peration with school groups. I

than any other grant that the Foundation has made.”—
H award Branclicr.

Psychiatric Aspects of Civilian Morale.

Family \Velfare Association of America, 122 East
22nd Street, New York. $.50. '

In the present emergency it is of great importance for
us all to have knowledge regarding the sociological forces
which operate during wartime and the effects of wartime
situations on human behavior. The first two chapters of
this publication, dealing with civilian mental health dur-
ing wartime, are concerned with the experiences of the
civilian populations of other countries during wartime and
with the value of social institutions in such a period. The
three remaining chapters have been prepared primarily
for the instruction of civilian defense workers and have
to do with anxiety, morale, and fatigue, and their control.

Swimming, Diving and Water Sports.

By Ferd John Lipovetz. Burgess Publishing Com-
pany, 426 South Sixth Street, Minneapolis, Minne—
sota. $2.75.

This edition brings up to date the publication, The
Teaching of Set-imming, Diving and Water Sports which
appeared in 1937. There is a great deal of practical ma-
terial in this illustrated book which incorporates the au-
thor’s experience as organizer and coach of the LaCrosse
State Teachers College varsity swimming team and as
chairman of the Wisconsin State Teachers College first
intercollegiate swimming meet.

How to Camp Out if You're Bombed Out.

By Ellsworth Jaeger. Buffalo Museum of Science,
Buffalo, New York. $.50.

The Buffalo Museum of Science during April, May,
and June, 1942, conducted a course for evacuee campers.
instruction was given in such subjects as Outdoor Cloth-
mg, Packs, and Equipment; Fire-Building; Outdoor
Shelters, Beds, and Fireplaces; Outdoor Sanitation and
Health; Use of National, State, County, and City Parks;
Camp Cookery; and Nature and Woodlore Knowledge.
The illustrated material used during the course is avail-
able in mimeographed form from Mrs. Matthew R. Bar-
cellona, Publicity Manager. Recreation workers will find
this material very helpful.

Summer in the City.

Edited by Margaret Day. National Federation of
Settlements, New York. $.35.

Thirty settlement houses throughout the country sub-
mitted information for this booklet which tells of some of
the ways in which settlements are meeting the challenge
vacation presents. Chief attention has been focused on

A New Deal for City Children.

By J. R. Kidd. Notre Dame de Grace Y.M.C.A.,
$363: Hampton Avenue, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Under this title the Group Work Section of the Mon-
treal Council of Social Agencies has issued a Manual of
Day Camping which deals with purposes and objectives,
organization and administration, and program. The man-_
ual also discusses day camping as citizenship education.
The appendix contains a compilation of suggestions of

- program resources and tools.

Groups interested in promoting day camping will want
to secure a copy of this manual.

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Roux-r Curtis-1', Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BnAucm-zn, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

Mas. 06021: L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SusAN M. Lee, Third ViCe-President and Secretary of the Boar

GusrAvus T. Kinnv, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Bums, Boston, Mass.

Mas. EDWARD W. Blooms, Carlisle, Pa.

Mas. Roan-r Woons Buss, Washington, D. C.
Howno BnAucnaa, New York, N. Y.

Mas. WILLIAM Bu'r'rnwonrn, Moline, Ill.
HannY L. Connz'r'r, Portland, Ore.

Mas. An'rnua G. Gunman, Jacksonville, Fla.
Mn. THOMAS A. Emson, West Orange, N. J.
Ronznr GAnnzrr, Baltimore, Md.

Ronnr GnAN-r, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. Gurnrns, Seattle, Wash.

Mas. Nonum HAnown, Fitchburg. Mass.
Mas. MELVILLz H. HAsszL, Tucson, Ariz.
Mas. CHARLIS V. HICKOX, Michigan City Ind.
Mas. JOHN D. Jsuzson, Sugar Hill. N. 
GusrAvus T. Km)? New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDon, indianapolis. Ind.

Roan-r LAssi-rn, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. Lu, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALan, Philadel his. Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittshurg , Pa.

CAn. E. LIILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

Mas. Ocpm L. Mums, Woodhury, N. Y.
Mas. Sicuurm Sum, San Francisco, Calif.
Mas. Ants W. WAosworm, Washington, D. C.
J. C. AuH New York, N. Y.

Funntcx  WAnaunc, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINAN'I‘, Concord, N. H.

Suitsz WooanAm, Washington, D. C.

