Extracts from Address

By Ambassador JOHN G. WINANT*
Firsf Vice—Presidenf
Nafional Recrea’rion Associafion

A1- Durham. England. June 6. I942

" HE UNITED NATIONS must make the same

energetic drive after the war to wipe out the

social evils of poverty, sickness and unemploy-

s ment that they are showing in their all—out effort

l to defeat fascism. The war must be won on the

economic front if it is to be won on the military

front. We must move on to a great social offen-
sive if we are to win the war completely.

"Anti-fascism is not a short-term military
job. Fascism comes from poverty and unem-
ployment. To crush fascism at its roots we must
crush the depression of democracy.

“The United Nations are learning to know
each other better as the war goes on. This will
lead to a finding of a common ground. The
world of today and tomorrow demands cour-

age. We have the courage to defeat poverty as
we are defeating fascism and we must translate

it into action with the same urgency and united
purpose that we have won from our comrade-
ship in this war.

“What we want is not complicated. We have

 

JOHN G. WINANT

enough technical knowledge and organizing
ability to respond to this awakening of the

social conscience.

An editorial by \Villiam Rose Benét in The

Saturday Review of Literature, June 13, 1942,
had this to say of John G. Winant:

“We have enough courage. We have put it to
use. When the war is done the drive for tanks
must become a drive for houses. The drive for
food to prevent the enemy from starving us

. must become a drive for food to satisfy the needs
of all people of all countries.

"The drive for physical fitness in the forces
must become a drive for bringing the death and
sickness rates in the whole population down to
the lowest possible level. The drive for man
power in the war must become a drive for em-
ployment to make freedom from want a living

| reality.

"The drive for all-out war effort by the
United Nations must become a drive for an all-
out peace effort based on the same cooperation.
willingness and sacrihce."

* Because John G. Winant is First Vice-President of the National Rec-
reation Association and has given so much thought and leadership
to recreation in New Hampshire and in the nation: because he is
so vital a part of the national recreation movement: and because
his address has received so much favorable comment. we print
extracts from it here—although his subject is not recreation.
Ambassador “'inant urged before his return to England new and
larger tasks for the National Recreation Association when the
Second “forld War has been won and peace established.

 

OCTOBER I942

 

“One of us Americans has recently had his say in
England. . . .

"John G. Winant said in no uncertain terms:
We must move on to a great social offensive if we
are to Win the war completely.’

“There is a line for influential writers and editors
to take up from now on! 'To crush fascism at its
roots we must crush the depressron of democracy.’

"For that is what the fighting forces are going to
ask of you after this war. That is what we are fight—
ing for. That is the problem that is going to be laid
right on your doorstep, later on. and the question
that is going to demand an immediate answer.

“As we are proud to have in our House of Rep-
resentatives a Congressman like the straight-thinking
and hard-hitting Eliot of Massachusetts. so we are
proud to have for our Ambassador to England
another American of high character. old family. and
new vision. Winant's speech was as good news to
us as Admiral Nimitz's communique. which was
just about the best news yet! The U. S. has the
courage. After this war, political demagogues are
not going to avail against the new world that the
people want and that the people are going to have.
For the common man is doing. and will continue to
do, the fighting. The common man in all the United
Nations will win the war. That is as sure as that
the sun will rise. And then to win the peace is going
to involve all the spiritual as well as all the physical
courage of which we. as one nation. are capable."

October

   
 

 '1'» - ‘  3" . x
- cum. Annual Rvpvrtofthr Superintendent of Schools, Chi?“

Y
EARLY ARRIVALS AT THE HALLOWEEN PARTY

374

t ' UR harvest
being got-
t e n i 11,”
‘runs an old ac-
count of the first
Thanksgiving,
“our Governor
sent foure men out
Ifowling, so that
we might after a
,more Special manner re joyce together after we had
lgathered the fruit of our labours. The foure in one
day killed as much fowle as, with a little help
:beside, served the Company almost a weeke.”

The first summer's crop at the Plymouth colony
'had been good. With the help of friendly Indians
the COIOHiStS had Planted and haTVeSted abundant were held in the morning, followed by feasts in all
Isupplies for the winter. With such good fortune, the homes, “the poorer sort being invited of the
it seemed only fitting that the governor should set richer,” The custom spread throughout the col-
aside a week for feasting in October of that first onies until Washington, as President of the new
Year in America, 1621- United States, proclaimed the first Thanksgiving
to be held on a national scale.

The colonists,
however, did not
enjoy good for-
tune in all the
years that follow-
e d. I n I 6 2 3 a
severe drought
withered the crops
so terribly ‘ that a
special day of
prayer was set aside in July. Later, when rain
had aided the crops and supplies had arrived from
England, the governor declared a day of “public
Thanksgiving.”

 

Print by Gedge Harman

Not until 1636 was there a Thanksgiving day as
we know it now. At that time church services

Since wild turkeys were common in the Massa-
phusetts region, they became the traditional center
f the autumn feast. Indians had taught the set-
ers to cultivate wild corn and this, too, was

“Now, therefore, I do recommend and assign
Thursday, the twenty-sixth day of November next,
to be devoted by the pe0ple of these States to the
service of that great and glorious Being, who is the

‘ pread upon the table. Never before had the white
en known of the crop.

The legend of maize is recounted by Henry
adsworth Longfellow in his “Song of Hiawa-
ha.” As the Indian hero was fasting in the woods
bring blessings on his people, he was approached

y one, Mondamin, a young man arrayed in green
d yellow with “plumes of green falling over his
olden hair.” The visitor bade Hiawatha wrestle
ith him, and this they did in three daily contests.
hen Mondamin announced unexpectedly that Hi-
watha would conquer him the following day. The
prophecy came true. Hiawatha buried his chal—
linger with care as he had been bidden. He buried
im “where rain might fall upon him and the sun
might warm him,” tending the grave each day until

a small green shoot grew from the ground.

“And before the Summer ended
Stood the maize in all its beauty,
With its shining robes about it
And its long, soft, golden tresses."

Beneficient Author of all the good that was, that is,
or that will be; that we may then all unite in ren-
dering unto Him our sincere and humble thanks for
his kind care and protection of the people of this
country, previous to their becoming a nation; for
the signal and manifold mercies, and the favorable
interpositions of his providence, in the course and
conclusion of the late war; for the great degree of
tranquillity, union, and plenty, which we have since
enjoyed; for the peaceable and rational manner in
which we have been enabled to establish constitutions
of government for our safety and happiness, and par-
ticularly the national one now lately instituted; for
the civil and religious liberty With which we are
blessed, and the means we have of acquiring and
diffusing useful knowledge; and, in general, for all
the great and various favors, which he has been
pleased to confer upon us.”——Excerpt from Presi-
dential Proclamation, October 3, 1789, in “Writings
of George Washington,” by Jared Sparks.

The observance of Thanksgiving, however, was

limited almost exclusively to New England. The

(Continued on page 419)
375

What They Say About Recreation

how much store we unconsciously set by
beauty, and how little savour there would be
left in life if it were withdrawn. It is the smile on
the earth’s face, open to all, and needs but the eye
to see, the mood to understand.”——J oh n Galsworthy.

MIT WOULD sunrmss any of us if we realized

“Yesterday belonged to the worker; tomorrow
belongs to the wise users of leisure. In leisure the
civilized man makes the most of himself. And in
the well-balanced life flourish the finest fruits of
American individualism.”—IV alter Pitkin.

“Experience has demonstrated that under the
conditions of city life no function of government is
more intimately connected with the welfare, health
and happiness of the people than that of supervised
recreation.” —H on. T. M. Eaton, Long Beach,
California.

“To ‘make others happy’ except through liberat-
ing their powers and engaging them in activities
that enlarge the meaning of life is to harm them.
. . . To foster conditions that widen the horizon of
others and give them command of their own
powers so that they can find their own happiness
in their own fashion is the way of social action.”
—John Dewey.

“Recreation sees man as a social animal, and it
proceeds on the theory that man does not live
simply to work, but that with equal validity he
works to live.”—Ott Romney.

“Regimentation in the field of leisure would run
counter to its essential nature, but freedom to fol-
low satisfying leisure-time interests implies a
wider range of facilities than the average individ-
ual can supply. Social planning and social control
must go hand in hand as we build up the leisure-
time world of the future.”—Jesse F. Steiner.

“If the democratic way of life were not based
on a moral concept of human relations, it would
not be worth preserving. To look on democracy
simply as a form of government is to underestimate
the fullness of life it nourishes. It is part of the
moral wisdom of the ages—men living together
in mutual respect and a common destiny.”—
Brooks Atkinson.

376

,that there is opportunity to use leisure to he

"In a democracy, society must recognize th
the individual has rights which are guarantee
and the individual must recognize that he has re
sonsibilities which are not to be evaded.”——Harrv

I V oodburn Chase.

   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  

“It is important that we think of parks as grea
teachers because it is a universal appreciation 0
nature—a love of country—that builds a grea
culture.”—Ray1nond C. Morrison.

“Food, clothing, housing, transportation, an
recreation are among the most important and fun
damental basic goods and services. These are e1
mental needs and all people must have them i
order to maintain any reasonable standard of liv
ing which will be adequate to support morale.”
I. R. Shannon in The Teaching of Physical Ed

cation.

“At the present time those interested in keepir
life strong in America need to broadcast the id
that recreation isn’t merely playgrounds for chi
dren ; escape from a world of reality into fanta

meet the social needs of the day.”—V. K. Bro

“The values of life which are to sustain our c
ture, to make us lit for freedom, and to aid us '
the enjoyment of democratic living must con
from both labor and leisure.”—Eduard C. Lin
man.

“Take the child as he is and help him to I.
velop so that he can live the fullest, richest 1i
possible in the environment in which he finds hi

self. That is the purpose of education.”—Jesse
Shaver in Childhood Education.

“\Vith feet and legs coming into general
again, and not as yet frozen, the noble art of r-
destrianism may be revived. . . . Let’s go back
the earth when we can. There are strength .
patience in it.”—From The New Y or}: Times.

“Never was healthful and happy recreat'
more needed in this country. . . . For the yo
pastime is a vitamin of life; for older folks it is
tonic against the fever of despair.”—Dr. He

Van Dyke.

A Hallowe'en Barn Frolic

LEERING DOBBIN, a pur-
A ple cow, MacDonald

Duck, and other barn-
yard animals swayed to and
fro on their flying-ring halters
in the big college gymnasium.
Below them'a double circle
of students, faculty members,
and service men were sing-
ing, “Here we go ’round the
mountain, two by two . . .” 1 “Farmer Brown” was
greeting new arrivals, and in the wink of an eye
had them singing lustin with the other guests.
Dobbin and MacDonald Duck nodded approvingly.
Though they were only paper bag animals, they
knew a good barn frolic when they saw one.

Clapping in time to the music, everyone sang,
“Give us a little motion, two by two . . .” and
with verse three imitated the motions of the couple
in the center of the ring. “Rise up, sugar, rise!”
came with a shout at the end of each verse. The
barn frolic was off to a good start, agreed the
committee, if its hilarious beginning was any
indication.

Next, the pianist struck up “Old MacDonald
Had a Farm,”2 and the one hundred or more
guests seated themselves
on the floor around the
piano singing. with gusto
all the way down the
list of MacDonald’s
menagerie. “Shucking
of the Corn”3 and
“Farmer in the Dell”2
were favorites, too.

If you give a similar
party, you may want to
|include rounds such as
“Three Blind Mice” and
“Row, Row, Row Your
Boat.”2 They make the
stiffest group unbend
and are always popular.
’ After fifteen minutes
of singing, four girls on
the committee joined
right hands in the cen—

 

1. All numbers refer to bibli.
ography.

By MARY HITCHINGS

The party described in this article is
based on a Barn Frolic planned and car-
ried out in New York City by the Recre-
ation Leadership class at Teachers Col-
lege' Columbia University, under the aus-
pices of the Physical Education Depart-
ment. With few changes it would make a
jolly home or community Hallowe'en party.

 

ter of the floor to start
“Honey, You Can’t Love

One.”“ Marching clockwise,
they sang:

“Honey, you can’t love one
Honey, you can’t love one

You can’t love one and have
any fun

Oh! Honey, you can’t love one.”

On the second verse, the
girls faced about, joined left hands and marched
counter-clockwise. Each beckoned to a man to link
arms with her. Thus, the four points grew with
each verse until the end of the song. Following
this, Farmer Brown led everyone in a Grand
March,‘ which ended with all seating themselves
on the floor or on the chairs ranged along the
walls.

If you are planning a party to be given in a
private home, the Grand March could become
“Follow the Leader.” Invade attic and cellar, front
yard and garden, if the weather permits. Mas-
queraders may march by a previously chosen jury,
who will award prizes for, say, the cleverest and
“corniest” costumes. ‘

“Musical elbows,” a novel form of musical
chairs, came next.
Twelve girls were
chosen for “chairs.”
They lined up one be-
hind the other, every
other girl with left hand
on hip, the others with
right arms akimbo.
Thirteen men were
asked to volunteer for
this game. To a march
tune, they walked around
the human chairs, and
when the music stopped
each linked arms with
one of the girls. The
man left without a part-
ner, of course, was out.
As in musical chairs,
one “elbow” was re-
moved each time to
leave one less than the
number of players.

Print by Gedge Harmon

377

378 A HALLOWEEN BARN FROLIC

An unusual potato race called for another group
of thirteen volunteers. Forming a ring around a
pile of twelve potatoes, they faced the center and
circled in time to the music. When it stOpped,
everyone made a mad rush to grab a potato. The
one who emerged from the scramble empty-handed

had to drop out. This continued as in “musical '

elbows” until there were two left, each attempting
to get the one remaining potato.

Any number, of course, can play both games so
long as there is one more player than “elbows”
or potatoes. Toy animals would make unusual
prizes for the winners.

A game that brought shrieks of laughter from
the onlookers was the “bull in the china shop”
obstacle race. Alternating gymnasium mats and
horses arranged in two rows were the obstacles.
An exceptionally pretty girl was asked to stand at
the head of each line. Two men volunteered and
each was blindfolded with a paper bag bull mask.
The girls were given cowbells of different pitch
and each “bull” stumbled about in an attempt to
follow the sound of the bell as the girl in his row
walked in and out among the obstacles ringing it.
The “bull” reaching the end of his row first was
the winner. Obstacles for a smaller party held in
a hall or home could be furniture alternated with
pillows, boxes, etc.

Everyone had a chance to catch his breath while
a magician entertained with cut paper and string
tricks.5 A quiet game such as bobbing for apples
by groups of volunteers could have been substi-
tuted. During the happy chatter that followed the
magician’s performance, Farmer Brown rang his
cowbell and announced that faculty members were
serving cider and doughnuts, pointing out the long
serving table set up at one end of the “barn.” It
was decorated with colorful autumn leaves. At the
Opposite end of the room, a panel made of bright
vegetables and fruit cut from construction paper
and pasted on a large sheet of white cardboard
fianked by com sheaves added a festive note.
Everyone was drinking one more cup of cider and
munching doughnuts when the strains of “Turkey
in the Straw”° were heard above the chatter and
laughter.

On a small table stage two buffoons—a farmer
and his wife—were singing “Swing your honey,
don’t you fall,” dramatizing each call with their

ridiculously tiny bodies and big heads.
“Now take that lady by the hair
And around that lady over there.
Into the center with a whoa haw gee
And ’round that gent from Tennessee."

‘- part, it will add zest to the show.

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   

So great was the applause that the bt-lffoons

danced “Darling Nellie Grey’” and “Farmer in
the Dell."1

A buf'foon stage and act are easily prepared. All
you need is a table for a stage and a curt.’
with slits for the head and hands of each per
former. Sew small sleeves, tight at the wrist, t
the hand slits. Attach suitably dressed, armle .
cardboard or puppet bodies with flexible legs a
the curtain below the head slits and between t
hand slits. The performers can move the feet I
the puppets and make them dance by means u'
strings attached to the sleeves and to the feet 0
the puppets. A hat or wig, make-up, and per-
haps a musical instrument complete the props.

“When the Frost 13 on the Pumpkin” or “Litt -
Orphan Annie,” by James Whitcomb Riley, a-r
good Hallowe’en recitations and might be part -
the buffoons’ program, If important person 1..

or faculty members can be prevailed upon to ta -

Following the buffoons’ example, the 
swung into sets for an hour of country danci
Soon gay groups of three—a man with a girl -
each side—had formed a large circle facing clo
wise. All joined in singing “Oh, the Old Gr
Mare, she ain’t what she used to be,” as ea
group stepped right with right foot, right w'
left foot, then kicked left with the right :-
Farmer Brown called directions until the steps
become familiar to all. More country dances f '
lowed with time out now and then for cider.

When the party was over Farmer Brown r
the guests good-bye. “Goodnight, goodnight . .
had a grand time” echoed back to the planni
committee gathered in the gymnasium for a
party huddle. All agreed that their objective of g
ting everyone to participate in some party acti
had a grand time,” echoed back to the plan '
the guests in good spirits. The anticipated short
of men had been minimized by the omission
games and dances requiring partners. There
been active and quiet games—something t
would appeal to each guest. Any lingering
mality or stiffness had been dispelled by hav'
everyone sit on the floor whenever feasible.

After some discussion, the committee deci
that precise timing was the key to the frolic’s
cess. The party, carefully planned to last fr
seven-thirty to ten o’clock, had not dragged,
ended on time, and no event had been omitt
for lack of time. Service men were able to st

A HALLOWEEN BARN FROLIC 379

until the end and still had ample
time to get back to their quarters.
' Dobbin blinked a sleepy eye
at MacDonald Duck as the gym-
+nasium was being set to rights,
.and muttered, “N ow, that’s what
I’d call a real party —— a little
.more horseplay plus a few oats
would have made it perfect!”
A moment later he was added to
the pile of discarded decorations.

More Party Suggestions

A Barn Frolic such as the one
escribed is an ideal celebration
or “All Hallbws Even,” since

our modern Hallowe’en is an outgrowth of early
English and Roman harvest festivals. This Teach-
trs College party is especially suitable for a large
group, but may be adapted to the entertainment of
a smaller number of guests in a school or private
home. A barn, of course, would be an ideal setting,
if a suitable one is available in your community.

| Posters and Invitations. If you are planning a
Community Hallowe’en party, use colorful posters
to spread the news. Cut orange paper in the shape
of a barn and illustrate with a scarecrow or corn
heaves. Paper bag animal heads in themselves
Lake engaging announcements. As an eye-catch-
ipg device, tie a cowbell or jack—o’-lantern to an
arm projecting from a burnt-edged wrapping
paper poster.

   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
   

Display positers wherever the public congregates
—-—in stores, schools, libraries. If service men are
I) be guests of honor, tack one on the USO bul-
ll:tin board. Supplement these with mimeographed
imitations for door-to-door delivery, and you will
nd that your Hallowe’en Barn Frolicis a “must”
everyone’s calendar.

Individual invitations sent through the mail are
est for small home parties. These may be cut in
allowe’en designs from stiff orange paper or, if
make more elaborate invitations,
olders may be decorated with spatter prints3 of
arm animals or Hallowe’en patterns. Print them
n black ink. Here is a sample invitation in verse:

5
S
9?
5;-
'3‘
H
O

Come frolic, come frolic
On All Hallows Eve!
From eight to eleven*
Farmer Brown“ will receive
Hillbillies and farmers
And charming milkmaids!

Come frolic, come frolic
Till the Harvest Moon fades!

(Wear any “barnyard” or Hallow-
e’en costume. Prizes for cleverest
and “corniest” costumes)

R.S.V.P.

*Iisert proper hours
Insert host’s name

 
  

Whether used as decorations
or masks. these paper bag
animal heads give grotesque
charm to a Hallowe'en Barn
Frolic or Masquerade

Decorations. To greet the
guests, set near the door a
broom-and-coat-hanger scare-
crow dressed in shirt and over-
alls. He should hold a cowbell
for guests to ring before enter-
ing. A paper bag'cow with a
bell around her neck would
serve the same purpose.

Barnyard animal heads add a
delightfully humorous note to
your decorations and are not difficult to make.9
The base is a large brown paper bag. Either its
broad side or end may be the animal’s face.
Features may be painted with bright colored poster
paint or cut from colored construction paper and
glued in place. Projecting beak, horns, or tongue
give a more realistic touch than painted features.
Green construction paper or crepe paper out in
shreds makes a glamorous mane for Dobbin or
whiskers for Billy Goat Gruff. Bossie, the purple
cow, (“I’d rather see than be one!”) will bring
many a chortle from your guests. Fasten the “live—
stock” to chandeliers, curtains, and pictures if the
party is given in a hall or private home.

Bull masks for the obstacle race are, of course,
made in the same fashion. Be sure to use large
bags that will slip easily over the head. If you
prefer, cut them to fit the face (see illustration at
top of page) and tie them on.

Traditional jack—o’-lanterns, corn sheaves,
ghosts, and. witches are always suitable, but per-
haps should not predominate at a barn frolic——
even on Hallowe’en. rOriginate and carry out your
own decoration ideas, since planning and making
decorations are as much fun as the party itself.

.Additional Games.“3 “A Bean Says” is a good
pre—party game for a masquerade party. When
each “unknown” arrives, give him as many beans
as there are guests to use as payment to those who

guess his identity. For example, a hillbilly might

accost a milkmaid saying, “A bean says you are
Ellen Jones.” If the guess is correct, Ellen Jones

gives the hillbilly a bean; if wrong, the hillbilly
must pay the milkmaid a bean. Play until all have

(Continued on page 419)

The Children's How

By MYRTLE F° PATTERSON the tenth anniversary of th

ll [IE CIIIIDREx’s IIUI'R, on

Tevery Saturday at this Acling§uperin+enden+ Children’s Hour was cele

time over \‘l'LVA and Recreahon Depodntulenl brated, many of the radio par

sponsored by the Recreation Lymhburg' v'rg'ma ticipants in the early program
Department of the city of —some of them married no
Lynchhurg." Heard every Saturday at twelve with children taking part in current programs
o'clock noon since 1931, this announcement has were featured.
lwctnme a familiar one to \‘l'lA’A’s audience of In addition to the regular Saturday prograi
[28,000 listeners. Starting when the station first there is a playground newscast each VVednesd
went on the air, the C hildren's Hour has been an afternoon from 5 :00 to 5 :15. This broadcast tak
uninterrupted feature and, according to a recent on the aspects of a \Valter \Vinchell news pro
poll, the most popular program broadcast on gram, with avreporter from two playgrounds ap
Saturdays. pearing each week to give news of playgroui

Each of the fifteen playgrounds of Lynchburg, activities and happenings in the community arou
\ irginia. in turn puts on a half hour program, and the playgrounds.
every playground broadcasts on an average of \VLVA has cooperated wholeheartedly w'
four times a year. The Saturday broadcast is other phases of Lynchburg's recreation progr
entirely a talent program, consisting of short one- The entire season’s schedule of games played 1
act plays, songs, dances, year in the Civic Clu

recitations,and musical num— Softball League was bro

Representatives of Lynchburg's playgrounds

bers. “hell in April, 1941, who lad. year +00], Par} in “19 broadcasi. (Continued on page 422)
of the Children's Hour Christmas program

 

Where Adults Are Not Admitted—

Unless Accompanied by a Child

 

By
RUTH DAUCHY

"Zooperin‘tendent'I

Children's Zoo

"No grown-up may enter
this wonderful story-book-
land-come-true unless es-
corted by a child. Then—
just to put you in your
proper place—the admis-
sion tee for'children is I5
cents; for adults [0 cents."

Courtesy JlIount Holyoke Alumnae Quarterly

1/ ow BRIDGE! Watch your heads, please! Watch
L your heads —”

You may well heed the warning for you
are entering the Children’s Zoo (in the Bronx
Zoo, New York City) and if you are more than
four feet tall you must forego your adult dignity
and belie your waistline and bend down (sister).
The only entrance is beneath a bridge with a four
foot clearance and everything within is designed
for a child's eye view. Once you have successfully
maneuvered the low bridge and straightened your
head, you will find yourself in a miniature world
of children’s story books come to life.

Beneath the low hanging branches of an old

horn—beam tree Pussy’s in the Well, complete with

Bell and family of three or
more, to greet all visitors.

A large shell contains a fish
tank, originally designed to

hold guppies and tropical fish
but the mechanics of maintain- :
'ing an even temperature in an

This story..of the Children's Zoo at
Bionx ParkI New York City. appeared
in the May I942 issue of the Mount
Holyoke Alumnae Quarterly, and
is reprinted in Recreation through
the courtesy of the Quarterly.

outdoor tank became too involved so the guppies
sublet to gold fish——common garden variety.

The Piglet’s House is next and most unique
from an architectural standpoint. There is not one
straight line in its whole construction. The result
is a low white house with a slanting roof, shingled
and sketchily patched with old tin signs, with
yawning crooked windows and doors and a side
porch, all surrounded by a low board fence and a.
rackety-packety atmosphere. It houses three baby
pigs who have to be bottle—fed (a ceremony in
which the small customers are allowed to‘partici-
pate by holding the bottles—to their great delight).
These babies remain so for an embarrassingly
short time and have to be traded in on the average
. of every six weeks, lest they

outgrow their surroundings.

After Piglet’s House comes
Noah’s Ark, in dry dock. This
exhibit is one of the most
popular with the children for
they can climb the gangplank,

381

382 WHERE ADULTS ARE NOT ADMITTED

take a turn about the deck,
feed the animals in the big
central cage (who are a con-
glomeration of Central and
South American mammals,
unique in that they can all
live together in peace and
harmony), and best of all the
children can “steer the boat”
by pushing the long handled stern rudder. An-
other point in the Ark’s favor is the fact that
Mother and Father must stay below as the gang-
plank was not constructed for adult size, and by
the time the Junior member of the family descends
they are fairly seething with curiosity to know
“What’s up there? \Vhat animals did you see?”
and Junior has the privilege of telling them this
time—-if he cares to.

Kanga’s House is next, a bamboo bomba with
a bright blue post fence behind which Kanga and
R00, two young and very importunate kangaroos,
beg for food by poking their. small paws out
between the posts.

Then comes the Rabbit Hill, surrounded by a
low red snow fence with spaces between for the
tiniest child to peek through and poke fingers in
to pet the bunnies. Here ten large rabbits scurry
around the hill and in and out the front door,
appropriately door-carded B’rer Rabbit in large
_ letters. It was hoped that the Rabbit Hill could be
kept green and verdant and artistically landscaped
with various kinds of plants,
but all intentions were laid
waste by the
voracity of
the inhabi-
tants whose
taste was,
unfortunate-
ly, all in their
mouths.

Up a near-
by staircase
marked pri-
vate is the
otiice of the
Children’s
Zoo. This
house in the
trees serves
as a head-
quarters for
the six girl

"The fact that the children may actually
play with and feed the animalsJ' says
the author. "seems first to account for
the popularity of the Children's Zoo.
and the second appeal seems to be the
charm of the setting. In its first year
of operation the Children's Zoo has

entertained 230,000 children and parents
—and there's always room for more."

Irwin, the always popular llama, is fed
by one of the Zoo's daring young visitors

 

  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
    

attendants as well as the Zoo-
perintendent’s ofiice wher
the routine business of order-
ing food, animals, repairs,
signs, and so forth is trans-
acted. The downstairs por
tion of this house serves ‘

food room and store room an I
, is filled with cages for the sec
0nd and third shift of handleable animals who a -
placed in the play ring in- relays during the day.

The play ring is a high point for the paren
who stand by and watch as well as for the childr
who climb in to pet the animals. A straw-til -
circle like a small circus ring, painted red an
blue, it stands in the center of the Children’s 20
and is always occupied by a number of pet ani
mals : kittens, goats, chickens, piglets, sheep, lamb
ducks, and occasionally a special pet like a kinka
jou, a small marmoset, or a baby llama. The
animals are changed at frequent intervals duri
the day to guard against wear and tear on th '
nervous systems. The ring is presided over by .-
of the girl attendants who sees that proper intro
ductions are made and amicable relations mai
tained between animals and children.

Ferdinand the Bull (Junior Size) stands at t
foot of the ofEce stairs beneath a beach umbrcl
on hot summer days with his flowers placed 0
shelf behind him discreetly out of reach.

A mother donkey and her baby, currently Hi1
and Hildagarde, live in
next enclosure, also benea
a gay red .
white stri
awning.

The D
Pond, sh
ed by a l
h a n g i 1
l) u s h ,
painted b
in a circle
bricks (
surroun
by a wh'
pebble 3'
where w
ducks-
yellow (1 x
lings swi
about a

Connery Mount Holyoke Alumnae Quarterly 5 U11 the '

WHERE ADULTS ARE NOT ADMITTED 383

selves. The duck population swells perceptibly in

number after Easter when many an Easter duck-
, ling finds the atmosphere of the Children’s Zoo
lmore attractive than a New York apartment.
Their house is a blue two—family bungalow with a
rattan roof, shared with two disdainful geese, Suki
and Lucy—who prefer the ring to the pond—and
the other half shelters a large flock of feathery-
.legged cochin bantams (“chickens with pants on,
Mommy l”)

Another two—family house adjacent to the ducks
and chickens contains Irwin, the llama, an invet-
erate purveyor of hair ribbons and animal food—-
not to mention an occasional nibble of passing fur
jackets, mink or rabbit equally palatable; and Baa
Baa the Black Sheep.

Chateau Guinea is an elaborate miniature castle
with moat, drawbridge, and courtyard where an
ver-increasing family of guinea pigs. resides in
royal Splendor under a coat of arms which says
“Chateau Guinea—we are small but many.”

An oval racetrack holds the Hare and the Tor-

‘toise, the latter a huge old Galapagos Tortoise
’whose speed is only exceeded by his appetite.
n The Mouse Clock is a grandfather clock with
wheel in its face and Hic, Dic, and Doc, the
three white mice, run up a tiny wire ramp around
the pendulum into the wheel which revolves in the
face of the clock as they take their exercise.

Punch and Judy are two capricious goats who
reside in Billy VVhisker’s House, a bamboo shelter
with a picturesque half roof of rattan and bamboo.

In his gaily painted “Special Feature” cage Lord
ol—jer—noz of the North American Skunks (erst-
'hile Lord Lenthereek but title retracted for com-
ercial reasons) holds a horrible fascination for
is public, no matter how often said public is re—
ssured that he is thoroughly de-scented.

I A miniature Old Mill in the center of the Chil-
dren’s Zoo is the home of Sir Anthony, a frisky
hipmunk who exercises violently, to the delight

f the children, in a squirrel wheel which forms

he water wheel of the mill.

Too W it and T00 Woo, a pair of little screech
olvls, in their small glass fronted house,'hear more
than they speak. Penny, a tame red rooster, Dea-
con, a talking crow, Mr. and Mrs. Turkey Gob-
bler, and Boots, a fat ram, wander about at will
and are shameless beggars of animal food, and
ver under foot.

No popcorn or peanuts or candy are allowed
and specially prepared pellets of food are sold in
5c packages to eliminate digestive troubles among

 
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
  

the animals. If an innocent three- or four-year old
eats one of these pellets under any misapprehen-
sion, as occasionally happens, the attendants can
safely assure the worried parents that no harm can
possibly come of it.

A registered nurse is in attendance at the
Children’s Zoo at all times. The First Aid Quar-
ters are in a gay little house with a chair in the
shape of a rabbit for small patients, whose most
prevalent complaints are bruised knees and elbows.
Large patients rarely require attention except for
the occasional absent-minded adult who forgets to
duck going under the bridge.

Each child is given a small souvenir medallion
on departure as a reminder of his visit. On one
side of the medal is a picture of Burma, the baby
elephant on the Riding Animal Track; on the
other is Suki, the Goose, exhibit A of the Chil-
dren’s Zoo.

Some interesting comments on this novel zoo
appeared in an article in the August 1941 issue of
Parents" M agaz-ine. A few quotations follow:

“Apartment house parents who have felt keen
regret because they could not surround their chil-
dren with household pets, due to lack of space, can
partly remedy that condition now that the gay and
highly imaginative Children’s Zoo in Bronx Park
is a reality. For this story-book zoo within a zoo
has its own collection of twenty-four animals, its
own zoo-superintendent, the charming Miss Ruth
Dauchy, and a staff of attractive and helpful
young assistants.

“This zoo—let is built inside the pony tract west
of the elephant house. It was designed and ex—
ecuted by Harry Sweeny, Jr., assistant general
director of the Zoological Park and the Aquarium.
A low bridge carrying the pony tract spans the
entrance, and the arch under the bridge is just
high enough for a child of eight or nine years to
walk through upright. . . . Only 500 persons are

.admitted at one time in order that all of them may

see and play with the animals without undue con—
fusion or fatigue to the pets.

“Of course there is a problem connected with
the Children’s Zoo—the youngsters hate to leave.
Promises of return visits are usually extracted be—
fore they consent to go home. Sometimes the prob- .
lem is graver, as when a little ten-year—old tells his
mother he will never be satisfied until he has a
llama of his own; or when a little eight-year—old
fails to understand why she can’t replace her doll
house with a guineapig castle.”

uAAake and Mend lt”

In the Boys’ Handy Book of Sports, Games
and Experiments published in I884. a number
of chapters are devoted to the activities of

the "Make and Mend Club." This has led'to

the suggestion that we have in Recreation a
"Make and Mend" Column to which our read-
ers will contribute information about substitutes
they have devised for materials not now avail-
able. methods they have discovered to prolong
the life of equipment' and novel handcraft
articles they have made. The success of such
a column will depend on you! However simple
and elementary your contribution may seem
to you to be. don't hesitate to send it in.

athletic equipment is

becoming increasingly
diflicult because of a short-
age of raw materials. It is
more important than ever
before that precautions be
taken to prolong the use—
ful life of athletic equip-
ment.

Leather Goods. The
most common causes of
trouble with leather goods
are high temperature and excessive moisture.
There are three types of accumulations which
form on leather, only one of which is harmful.
This is a green mold which will rot. leather.

In order to prevent green mold rot, leather arti-
cles should be kept in a cool, dry place. When wet,
leather articles should be dried immediately, but
the action should not be forced. The article should
be dried at normal room temperature without the
use of artificial heat or sunlight. If repeated wet—
ting and drying are encountered, there will be a
tendency for a hardness to develop. This can be
overcome by applying Neatsfoot oil or a light
paraffin (mineral) oil to the leather surface. Mer-
solite-P is an excellent commercial leather dressing.

Leather that has become soiled should be cleaned
with clear, cool water and saddle soap only. The
saddle soap should be applied with a moist cloth
or sponge. Rub the leather until dirt is loosened.
It should then be wiped clean and briskly rubbed
by hand or with a clean cloth.

Inflated Equipment. Inflated balls should be
stored inflated, but not at ndrmal pressure. This
is particularly true of last-built or molded balls.
They should not be folded or crushed.

\Vhen inflating a ball with rubber core valve,
always moisten the needle, preferably with glyc-
erin. If the needle is moist-
ened with the mouth, re-
move the moisture from
the needle after using.

Always use a pressure
gauge to insure correct in-
flation. Overinflation

should be avoided as this
materially affects the

384

THE REPLACEMENT of

As the initial contribution to the "Make
and Mend" Column, we present material ap-
pearing in an articleI "Care and Mainte-
nance of Athletic Equipment." which was
published in the August I942 issue of the
bulletin entitled Notes on Morale Activi-
ties, prepared for Unit Commanders and
Special Service Officers by the Special

Service Division of the War Department.

  
   
  
  
 
    
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   

shape and life of any ball.

On permanent posts and
stations, mesh-wire cage or
stalls can be constructed
for the storage of balls.
Each ball should have
separate stall. This wi
avoid crushing and wil
allow plenty of circulatio
for drying.

Rubber Goods. Eve
effort should be made t
conserve rubber goods. An
rubber material which is no longer servicea
should be turned in for salvage. Every scrap (
rubber should be saved.

The chief enemies of rubber are direct sunligl
heat, grease and oil. With regard to sunlight a .
heat, all that can be done is to minimize the du
tion of exposure. Grease and oil should be r
moved with soap and water. Never use dry clea
ing fluids on rubber goods.

Badminton and Tennis Rackets. Badminton a
tennis rackets should be kept in a cool dry pl
If presses are not available, rackets should be hu

Q

Ping-Pong. Loosen nets when not in use.
move dents in ping-pong balls by pouring boili
water over them.

Shuffleboard. Keep wood floor court waxed
reduce wear on floor and discs. °

Tennis, Volleyball and Badminton Nets. In da
areas, tarred nets are best. All nets should be c
fully preserved, as they are increasingly diflic
to obtain. They should be taken in during l
weather, kept dry and repaired at the first ind
tion of damage. o\Vhen not in use, the nets sh
be loosened to relieve tension. ,

Baseballs and Softballs. A single broken st'
should be repaired. Covers should be cleaned
kept dry. Take in b
when not in use.

Athletic Shoes. All .
letic shoes are subjectc
dampness due to pers'
tion, rain or snow.
tends to remove the t
nage oil from the leaf]

(Continued on page 420)

ll HERE ARE only a few of us
here but all our girls are
good troupers. We travel

many miles at night in bad
weather over bumpy roads to
.put on a dance. As we gather
-round The pot-bellied stoves in
the half-barrel hutsgand see how
glad the men are to talk to us,
we realize that there is a place
for us here. We supply‘the
needed link between the soldier
nd his home.”

This is Jane Goodellispeaking

n a-special Red Cross broad-

ast from Iceland. Jane Goodell

's a former New York recrea-

ion worker, a member of one

f the first task forces assigned to

ed Cross duty overseas.

She and her co-workers were in

he vanguard of a steady proces-

ion of professionally trained rec-
eation workers which has gone to far—distant
ands from national headquarters of the American
ed Cross in Washington since America’s en-
rance into the war. Coming from all parts of the
untry, they _clear up their desks, bid the home

olk good-bye “for the duration,” and are off on a

ong journey to an “unknown destination.”

The first stop is National Headquarters for a
rief orientation course. No matter how many
cademic degrees adorn one’s name this prelimin-
ry training is essential.

Next is a probationary assignment to a military

st in this country for practical experience in

'ell-established Red Cross recreation centers

inder supervision of the resident staff. Here they

bsorb not only the atmosphere of an armed camp

d learn its lore, but they undergo a process of

ysical hardening as well. They are still “rook-

3’ just lik?their newly inducted brothers in

haki.

This period of breaking-in varies. It is cut
hort when orders come from headquarters to re-
rt at a certain port at a certain time for em-
)arkation, From then on, like the troops, their
obvements are a military secret. Not until they

   
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  

 

A sailor from West Virginia
"swings" it with an English
girl at the Washington Club
which has been established
in London by the Red Cross

By LORA KELLY

arrive safely at their overseas

stations can their whereabouts
be disclosed.

The Recreation .Program

The general Red Cross recre—
ation program is of a three-fold
nature—hospital, task force and
club, according to Mr. Virgil
Dahl, Director of Recreation,
Red Cross Services to the Armed
Forces.

“The oldest of these is that
of medically approved recrea-

tion for service hOSpitals, dat-

ing back to the first World

War,” he says. “This has been

in continuous operation through—

out the years in general army and
navy hospitals, expanded or dimin-
ished according to the needs. It
has furnished the foundations on
which the other two have been
built and adapted to the present global wartime
conditions.
a. “Long before the attack on Pearl Harbor, Red
Cross recreation workers were on duty in the sta—
tion hospitals in the. training camps all over the
country. They were an integral part of the station
hospital staffs functioning under the supervision
of the assistant field director and cooperating with
the medical social workers in behalf of convales-
cent patients. Fully a year before the country’s
advent into _the war these recreation workers in
the new training camps were setting up their im-
provised theatrical stages and game tables in
vacant hospital wards. The seventy Red Cross
recreation buildings, now a reality, were still in
the blue print stage. The resourcefulness of these
pioneers was often severely tested not only by lack
of equipment but lack of floor space.

“In the course of the rapidly expanding war pre—
parations these material adjuncts to the program
were forthcoming to match the spirit of helpful-
ness which had been there all the time.

“Some of the first draft recreation workers who
were on duty all through the early stages of de-
fense training have gone overseas to undertake

385

335 “OVER THERE”

another pioneer experience of setting up the rec-
reation programs in a foreign land under entirely
different conditions.”

Despite the rapidly changing picture of events,
Mr. Dahl observes that certain fundamentals re-
main unchanged. “\Vhether recreation workers
are bustling about hospital wards with games for
patients, assembling state properties for an ama-
teur show, or running a bridge tournament in a
service club, one significant fact stands out in
crystalline clearness—they are meeting a need,”
he declared.

“\Vhether they are on duty in chill climates of
the north or in a palm-shaded hut in the tropics,
they bring to the job experience, training, resource-
fulness, a sense of hmnorka¥nd a thorough under-
standing of soldier psychology. In the hospital and
task force they follow pretty much the same pat-
tern as their co-workers in the training and re-
placement camps on the home shores, with such
differentiations as are expedient because of climate,
local customs and military necessity.”

Obviously there is a wide ap between the en-
tertainment tastes of the husky young Yank on
leave and the convalescent soldier in a wheel chair.
The former wants action—plenty of it. The lad
with his leg in a cast wants a quiet game of cards
or something to read.

Service clubs are the answer to the able-bodied
Yank’s leisure problem.

When Joe Is on Furlough

In response to a definite need, twelve clubs and
two recreation centers are now functioning in such
widely separated parts of the globe as London.
Scotland, Northern Ireland, Australia, New Cale-
donia, and other islands of the Pacific. Here's how
they operate:

Private Joe Doaks has a pass and a forty-eight
hour furlough. He’s a member of the American
task forces “over there” or “down under” and
he’s a stranger in a strange land, even if the
language of the natives is a reasonable facsimile
of his own.

Let’s tune in on Joe as he checks into the Wash-
ington Club in London, for example. The British
clubs, directed by Mr. G. Ott Romney, are typical
of the new centers elsewhere, with variations ac-
cording to climate and other local conditions.

Private Joe steps up to the desk where he is
greeted by a pleasant American voice, “Glad to
see you, Soldier, what can we do for you ?”

From then on Joe’s only problem is a choice of

“man carefully selected by the Red Cro

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
    
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
   

entertainment fare. First, he is assigned to 51
ing quarters. Maybe it is a room shared with
other buddy, or a comfortable dormitory bed.
any event, he’ll have a good long sleep, if t
what -he wants, undisturbed by reveille,
clocks or commands of the “top kick.”

Chances are, though, that Joe will be up
and early so he won’t miss anything. Down
he finds an honest-to-goodness American 1)
fast awaiting him. After he has had his f'i
pancakes, cereal or whatever happens to be 0
menu, he’s primed to go sightseeing. Out i
lobby. there’s a big sign that reads “Leave an
formation Bureau.” Here‘s where arrangen
can be made to do the town in the accepted t
fashion. In case he doesn’t want to go alone t
a big map of the United States dotted with
flags. Each flag has a name on it. That e
him to see at a glance who is among those 
from his home town in the States. Kit/ell, '
isn’t Bill Jones! Joe didn’t even know he
the service, There’s the big lug over at the
bar right this minute! _

Reunions of this sort are not uncommo
off they go to see everything from the To
London, Westminster Abbey, Buckingham
and the Marble Arch to Mme. T ussand’
works, and maybe a few other undesignate
along the Thames.

Eventually Joe will wander back to t
with the'Red Cross sign invitingly con
over the doorway. Here he can flop d
well-stuffed club chair and take a look at t
magazines and newspapers. '

But if he wants action, that’s on Lap --
used to be a bar or a private ballroom Is.
Red Cross took over the hotel is n
nasium. There’s plenty going on in t '
The club director or his assistant itT'cl

of his experience in group recreation, a
ord for successful supervision of athletic '
of these men have been college football c
ball coaches and understand to the last
lace what it takes to put over a goo "'
program.

But this isn’t a man’s world, by
There are real American girls in the pi
and if anybody wants to play an excitirg
badminton or table tennis, Joe doesn’t
depend on other soldiers for an interest
ner or opponent. They are the recreation
who are talented muscians and song leaders,

“OVER THERE” 387

in amateur dramatics. They can get a bridge tour—
nament going in no time flat, settle a disputed
point in a chess game, or take a hand themselves
if there aren’t enough players around. It is their
job, however, not to exploit their own talents as
performers, but to bring out the skills of others.
In addition to all this, these workers promote
social affairs to which local girls are invited. In
the London clubs the feminine uniformed forces of
His Majesty, such as the WAAFS and the
WRENS are frequent guests, to the delight of
Everybody. Introducing an attractive English
‘l’assie to the joys of hot dogs, “cokes,” or ham-
burgers, readily available at the snack bar, or
teaching her a_ few itterbug steps to a swing tune
'from a juke box, is rated very highly as a fur-
lpugh pastime by the Yanks on leave.
When the need for Ameri-
can recreation centers plus Girls
bed and board became ap-
parent in these areas, the

in Jrhe uniformed Bri‘l’ish services
respond gladly when invited by Red Cross
workers to lend a hand with Jthe en’rer-
tainment of American soldiers and sailors

War Department called upon Red Cross, the only
civilian agency operating within the confines of a
military post, either at home or abroad, to sponsor
the project. As a result of an exchange of corre-
spondence between War Secretary Henry L. Stim-
son and Red Cross Chairman Norman H. Davis,
an agreement was reached whereby sleeping ac-
commodations and meals would be provided at a
nominal cost but everything else would be free.
The War Department was insistent that the
food and lodging be paid for by the soldier. The
Secretary wrote that this was customary practice
in similar clubs of the allied nations, and that it
helped to maintain the service man’s self~respect
to pay for his bed and breakfast. The charge for
these accommodations was set at fifty cents a night

g for bed and breakfast, and twenty cents for each

of the other meals in the
British Isles. These rates
are below cost and the

(Continued on page 425)

 

Square Dances tor Soldiers

By RUTHALEE HOLLOWAY J ORGENSEN
Assistant Superintendent
Recreation Department
Lincoln. Nebraska

1938. Corporal Teffer
teller, with his Tennes

soldiers Coming to the see version of square danc
Muny Game Courts as a ing, became greatly in de
series of three instruction mand at all later squar

“3551015” (Tn the theory that Lincoln' Nebraska. has a. novel recreation dances'
-t was adrisable to start w1th area known as {he "Muny Gamecoum." con- After the first three dance

the fundamentals for the sisting of the floor of a former skating pond the soldiers were do-si-do
benth of those who had not CONVefied "1+0 a “nude Surface 0" Wh'Ch ing like veterans, and inter
formerly engaged in square courts have been marked °H f°r SUCH games est seemed to indicate con

. as shutFIeboard. volleyball. archery. table .
dancmg. In attendance, also, fennis' and badminbn. This area has been tmuance of the dances. Fron

were the men who knew and Prepared especially for me use of H19 service twenty-live to thirty-five set

gt ARE dancing was
introduced to the

enjoyed square dancing: men, and every Saturday night during the were always dancing on th
Noticeable from the First was past summer it became an outdoor dancing 90’ x 360’ Hoor. Added at
one who seemed very pro— H°°r Where square damn"?! -‘>P°"‘5°re‘3I bY traction, of course, was th

the Lincoln Recreation Board was a very

I . fact that “Lincolnettes,” a
popu.ar feature of the recreatlon program.

organization of Lincoln gir

hcient in the art. He was
discovered to be R. B. Tef-

ferteller, formerly a recrea- interested in acting as soci
tion representative of Amalgamated Clothing Com- partners for the service men, were in attendan
pany, who conducted folk and square dancing at at the dances. Moreover, they arrived an hour b

the National Recreation Congress in Pittsburgh in ( C ontiuucd on page 424)

 

Decatur Doubles lts Recreation Tax

creased the amount which may i
be levied for this purpose
from 2/3 of a mill to 1 1/3

mills on each dollar of as-
sessed value, providing the
increase is authorized by a
referendum.

By a vote of 9 to l, the citizens
of Decatur. Illinois, protect the
recreational gains made to date

FEW MONTHS ago the
A Playground and Rec-
reation Board of De—
catur, Illinois, placed the

following request before the
City Council:

“As a result of the war the Playground and Rec-
reation program of the city of Decatur faces a crisis.
The very substantial assistance which has been re-
ceived from \VPA is being curtailed, and the need
for public recreation is greater than ever.

“We have depended upon WPA for more than
one-half of the employees to operate 15 summer
playgrounds (7 lighted for evening play), 10 school
gymnasiums, 6 community centers, 16 school play-
ground and building programs, 27 special events, such
as Christmas and Hallowe’en community celebrations,
and other miscellaneous services.

“\Vith the opportunity for employment in private
industry increasing, capable leaders who have served
on the recreation program have found other work,
with the result that WPA has fewer people avail-
able for employment, and those who remain are being
shifted into more direct war activity.

“At the same time the great increase in the popu-
lation due to the location of war industries in our
vicinity, restricted opportunity for travel and less
home supervision of children due to women in in-
dustry create very serious problems in our city.
\Vherever these problems ‘have arisen in our own
cities and in England opportunity for wholesome rec-
reation has been rec0gnized as a basic need to pre-
serve and stimulate the spirit of the people and keep
down lawlessness and juvenile delinquency. Already
in our own community juvenile delinquency is show-
ing a tendency to increase.

“\Vithout additional funds we shall 'have to retrench.
This would be unfortunate even under normal condi—
tions; it would be nothing short of tragic, faced as
we are with the problems of war industry. To close
four or live playgrounds would deprive citizens in
those neighborhoods of services they have as much
right to expect as those in any other neighborhood,
and so far as the Playground and Recreation Board
is concerned no one playground is any more im-
portant than another.

“The tax which was voted in 1936 has netted about

$21,000.00 per year, 35¢ per capita,
most of which has been spent for
three full-time employees and
forty part-time employees. WPA
has supplied more than twice as
much money, which has pro-
vided about sixty employees.
“Since the playground tax was
voted the Legislature has in—

The story of Decatur's successful recre-
ational tax increase referenduml as told
to Mary Graham Andrews by Wayne
Gill, Superintendent of Public Recre-
ation' is presented in the hope that
its publication will help other cities
which are planning similar campaigns.

“Therefore, believing that the maintenance of our
playground and recreation program, particularly
under present conditions, is of vital importance to
the men, women and children of the city of Decatur,
we respectfully request your honorable Body to call
a special election athan early date, to provide an
opportunity for the citizens of Decatur to vote on
the proposition of increasing the playground and rec-
reation tax as authorized by law.”

Inexpensive Election Plan

Responding to the request, the City Council
ordered a special election to be held Tuesday, July
21, 1942, for the purpose of voting on recreational
tax increase. The election was planned and car—
ried out at a minimum cost. Four voting districts
were set up for the election, instead of using the
usual thirty-seven precinct polls. The voting place
was a public school in each district. The polls were
open from 6 A. M. to 5 P. M. The only cost was
the printing of the ballots. For the first time in a
city vote, judges and clerks agreed to and did en-
dorse their pay checks and return them to the city.

Practical Outline of Referendum

The following outline was used and found ef-
fective:

I. Newspapers
Herald (morning daily) ; Review (evening daily) ;
Decatur Advertiser (weekly) ; Weekly News.

II. Endorsements
A. By letter
President of National Recreation Association
Director of Recreation, Federal Security Agency,
Washington, D. C.
President, State PTA, Chicago, Illinois
Director of Public Welfare, Springfield, Illinois
Commissioner of Public Health
and Safety, Decatur, Illinois
Superintendent of Health of the
City of Decatur, Illinois
Publicity Chairman, Ministerial As-
sociation, Decatur, Illinois
President, Ministerial Association,

Decatur, Illinois
Chief of Police, City of Decatur

389

390 DECATUR DOUBLES ITS RECREATION TAX

President. City P. T. A. Council
Priest, Decatur Parish
Superintendent Schools
County Judge, Macon County
President, Community Chest
Chief Juvenile Probation Officer, Macon County
Decatur Trades and Labor Assembly
Retail Trade Committee, Decatur Association
of Commerce

13. Daily stories, editorial page, sports page, so-
ciety page, town topics, and special feature
stories.

III. Speaking engagements

At playgrounds, churches, industries and stores,

organizations and governing groups.
IV. Organizations

A. Playground and Recreation Board (5 members)

B: Over-All Advisory Group (16 members)

c. Campaign Committee
District chairman, block workers, and'recrea-

tion club leaders
D. Play leaders

V. Commercial advertisements (inserts—rec-
reational appeal in “ads”)
VI. Special amplified messages to large audiences
Games, movies, play night activities
VII. Exhibits
VIII. Letters of appeal to——-

Ministers, organizations, governing groups, Uni-
versity

IX. Signs and posters
X. Handbills

XI. Telephone committee
XII. Meetings

XIII. Election Day

A. Transportation

B. Junior leaders

c. House canvass

D. Telephone committees
a. Poll workers

F. Clerks and judges

G. Playground parades

XIV. Miscellaneous

A. Pledge cards

B. Novelty transportation

c. Use of bulletin board (police headquarters)
D. Personalized notes of thanks

E. Bringing play expert to Decatur

r. Personal contacts

G. Papers written by recreation staff

Public Relations

Favorable public opinion for the referendum was
brought about by a very definite understanding
with the executives of the daily and weekly news-
papers. A comprehensive outline 'was organized
to interpret the work done, the recreation services
and benefits available to the citizenry. From this

 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  

a definite program was set upon for each 
The kind of material written and offered met
different policies and different methods of
senting news for each paper.

Two copies of the outline for publicity
were taken to the newspaper each week.
editors were called in and reasons for and o
tions against the proposed articles were dis
Suggestions were wide open. Great frank-n ‘-
much help came from these editors, who
“tops” in creating public Opinion.

The method adopted was to prepare daily ;
on regular news, to hook regular news with a
vital current news, and then to increase in
by features, regular news, novelties and 
until publicity cliinaxed on election day.

The publicity was continuous. Cooperation
Splendid from the special departments. The
torials were most effective. Sixty-live articles.
elusive of regular news, and twenty-one pier
appeared from July I to July 22 in_the two i
and two weekly papers.

I".

Endorsements and Contacts

Personal contacts were important in obtai-
letters of endorsement. These interviews \
used to impart not only information but entl
asm for the referendum. Ideas for the cam
were solicited. Endorsers wrote their own v'
in their letters. A second contact was ma
pick up the letter a few days later, wh -
sible. The second contact was tactfully u-d
sounding board for reactions. The letters c
dorsements furnished material for a ban--
article, “Leaders Back Bigger Play Tax.
Tell Views.” This was published in :1
edition.

Contacts were used frequently and cons
Their contributions to the success cannot be
ured, but they were an important factor.

Speaking Engagements
Speeches were made in various places

the month before the election. They became
numerous as the referendum neared.

Speaking engagements were met in the ch
of the city on the Sunday prior to the ele
Large industries and businesses held short r
ings the night before the election. Organiza '
labor union meetings and governing bodies I
speeches and took part in round-table discu
about recreation. Community recreation cl
were a rich field for talks and discussions.

DECATUR DOUBLES ITS RECREATION TAX

 

"You have +his—now."

"Do you wani' +his?"

 

392 DECATUR DOUBLES ITS RECREATION TAX

speakers came from the Playground and Recrea-
tion Board and their staff of supervisors and play
leaders. Mr. L. H. \Veir, Field Representative of
the National Recreation Association, came to De-
catur. He talked to service clubs, adult recreation
clubs and P.T.A. groups. He also offered fine
guidance in organization and publicity for the
campaign.

Another type of talk, which came unsolicited
and was hooked up with vital city life movement,
was most effective. To quote from a newspaper

item :

“In tracing the development of the three ordnance
plants in Decatur area for members of the Lions
Club, yesterday the President of the Association of
Commerce said that one reason plant officials were
interested in Decatur was the playground program.
The president was present at many of the confer—
ences of local representatives and plant officials and

reported that the playground program of the city
was complimented."

Organization

First in organization was the Playground and
Recreation Board, which consists of five members
plus the Superintendent of Public Recreation. The
Vice-President acted as chairman for the cam-
paign due to the fact the President was absent
from the city. The Vice-President is one of the
most efficient organizers in the city.

Second was an “Over-All Planning Committee.”
This Advisory Board was formed from the civic
leaders holding key positions in the different sec-
tions of the city. Meetings were held each Thurs-
day noon at luncheons at the Decatur Club. At
this time the campaign was planned and frankly
discussed. The Board offered ideas, rejected ideas
and was used as a sounding board for current
campaign thoughts and reactions.

Members were invited from the following groups :
Service clubs, industries, schools, law, press,
P.T.A., church, Chamber of Commerce, trades
and labor assembly, medical profession, ministerial
profession, business men, women’s organizations,
and the Playground and Recreation Board.

Then came the Campaign Committee, headed
by a city-wide chairman, the president of the city
council of the Parent-Teacher Association. She in
turn selected four district chairmen, P.T.A. lead-
ers in their districts. The district chairman chose
two P.T.‘A. leaders from each school in her dis-
trict, plus leaders from each playground in the
district. These were assigned a certain number of
blocks to secure block workers.

The block workers made door-to-door canvasll
of their block. On election day they phoned an
made arrangements for transportation to get t -
favorable voters to the polls.

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

Letters were written to each block workers i
the city and instruction sheets given to dist-rip
workers and block workers. Reaction sheets wer
also furnished to list the name, address, and at
titude of each person visited. These sheets wcr
handed into the district chairman on Friday befor
the election. They were used on election day a
guides to pull in the “Yes” vote, and also to gau -
the trend of the votes being cast.

More power to the Parent—Teacher Associatim
They did a fine job on this recreational referen
dum. They were all anxious to help. They ca
to meetings. They gave much time to hard wo
They proved themselves equal to the task of p
ting over the tax increase for the betterment c
their children and their community.

The play leaders made a special effort and ;
complished a splendid job. They increased a
tendance in a very rainy season. They built ad
tional good will by many methods. They fori .
leaders’ clubs. Each of them wrote a three-min
talk on “Why the Recreation Referendum Is N -.
essary.” These papers were so well written t
they furnished the information which was used '
one of the best editorials of the campaign. Ma
of them brought out the idea, “Can Decatur affo
to lose what. she has in recreation services?" Th
acted as campaign committee in their neigh
hood. They were poll workers on election a
Some, with their junior leaders, furnished tra

portation and made calls for the voters.

Special Spot Announcements

Special amplified messages to large audien
at softball games, movies and other play 11'
activities were given as spot announcements. 0
or more announcements were selected from
group of eleven written for the purpose and git
by the director. At the end of each announcen
the following was emphasized: "Each voter 11
vote in the district in which lives. This playgro
is located in District . . . . .. and the polling p
is . . . . . . . .school.

Example of Spot Announcement:

KEEP PLAYGROUNDS OPEN FOR NATIONAL HEALTH
RECREATION MEANS Mons POWER TO
You AND UNCLE SAM

VOTE YES FOR RECREATION—JULY 21

DECATUR DOUBLES ITS RECREATION TAX 393

Exhibits

Handcraft Exhibit in Central Park. The park is
located in the very heart of downtown Decatur.
The exhibit was held on the Friday preceding
election day on Tuesday. It was a live demon-
stration. The exhibit included handcraft work of
the children from all the city playgrounds, who
were seated at twenty tables in the park, actually
demonstrating the various types of handcraft.

The exhibit was under the supervision of play-
ground junior leaders, each of whom wore a white
“T” shirt. On front was printed in blue, “It Pays
to Play.” On the back was written, “Vote Yes for
Recreation, July.”

Window Exhibit. A gaily colored exhibit was
placed in a large corner show window of a busi-
ness establishment. It included a large picturized
recreational activity map illustrating the year-
round recreation program service. Another huge
colored map of the four polling places, telling the
when, where, why, what, and who of the election
‘ was in the exhibit. A handcraft diSplay and post-
ers were included.

Exhibit on Each Playground. Exhibits were ar-
ranged on each playground for “Come and See”
night, which was city-wide. The exhibits included
a sample of all work and play that was done at the
‘ play cen‘ters. It was displayed for visitors.

Other Publicity Media

Letters of Appeal. Letters of appeal with litera-
ture enclosed were sent to all the ministersfgov}
erning bodies, service groups, women’s organiza—
tions, and similar groups. There were fifty-eight
in number.

Posters and Handbills. Eight different types of
posters were made. Twelve hundred of these, dis-
tributed by play leaders and campaign workers,
were placed in all sections of the city. Handbills
were placed on every porch in the city the day
, before the election.

T-Shirts. One hundred T-Shirts were secured
and lettered on the front “It Pays to Play,” and
on the back, “Vote Yes for Recreation, July ZIst.”
These were distributed to junior leaders on the
city’s fifteen playgrounds.

Pledge Cards. This pledge card contained a
simple map of the districts and polling places, and
gave the date of election and the time the polls
‘ opened. It closed with this note: “You must vote
in the district in which you live.”

Then—— “Tear here” and “Please leave pledge
with play leader or at concession stand.”

The pledge read: “I pledge my support and
will encourage my friends to support the recrea-
tion referendum on July 21st.” Signature, address,
and telephone were asked for.

Results of Election

This story is told in the headline—“Decatur
Doubles Recreation Tax by 9 to I Vote.”

Miscellaneous Comments

There was a transportation problem. Distance
to the pools was long, due to the fact that there
were only four voting places. There was the rub-
ber shortage to consider. A novel scheme of trans—
portation was backed by the adult recreation clubs.
A hayrack and a stagecoach were obtained to carry
voters to the polls. Groups advocated hiking and
bicycling in block groups to the polls. It made
color and good publicity for an article entitled,
“Travel to Polls for Playground Tax Vote to
Employ Transportation Modes of- Gay 90’s.” The
article was illustrated by pictures and a map.

No radio publicity was used because the statute
calls for the same amount of radio time to be al-
lotted to the opposition in all controversial mat-
ters. There was some opposition, of course, but
none courageous enough to voice it over the radio.
Consequently no opposition could be furnished.

No organized opposition was ever presented
during the campaign. However, great pains were
taken not to stir up any. The campaign from be-
ginning to the very close was carried on as if
there were some opposition. No chances were taken.
The determination was to win this referendum.

Conclusion

The success of this recreational tax increase
referendum cannot be fully understood unless the
back ground of Decatur’s recreational program is
mentioned. It has a background of a good pro—
gram because it has been guided into national
trends through the many services of the National
Recreation Association. The Superintendent of
Public Recreation emphasized: “The’Association’si
bulletin services, its field experts, have been. used
extensively for help and instruction. 'Their guid-
ance has kept the city on the right track and_fur-_
nished Decatur with its recreational program
background.” a ” "  f

Service Men in the Out oi Doors

HEN CARL KAL'FFELD
w of the Staten Island

Zoo unloaded his
luggage and cans contain-
ing snake characters at
the ['50 Club located in a
wood near Eatontown,
New Jersey, it was about
time for the scheduled ex—
hibition but there were not
more than two dozen ser-
vice men waiting for the program. The 200 curator
took sack after sack of snakes from his large
satchel and laid them at one end of the stage, ar—
ranged two large black painted lard cans on.the
fioor in front of the stage, pulled from his pocket
several colored balloons and unconcernedly filled
them with air and tied them on sticks—then, to
the curious audience that filled only the front row
of seats. announced that he i
had come to show them
some snakes. \Vhile the
writer was thinking that the

The USO initiates a novel activity
in its program oi nature education-
recreation For our men in service

By GARRETT G. EPPLEY

Program Specialist

Army and Navy Department
National Council of the Y.M.C.A.

John Tee-Van. Executive Secretary of the
Bronx Zoo in New York City, and Robert

Mathewson. staff member. give a reptile

men who were not there
did not know what they
were missing, the group’s
attention was alertly
brought to command as
Mr. Kaufteld introduced
an Australian-Python, one
of a species now familiar
to many of our men over-
seas.

The more information
these coast guardsmen were given concerning this
python, and the more that they observed of its
habits, the more interested and fascinated that
unique front-seat audience became. So in the midst
of the growing interest it seemed a little strange
when some of the men quietly left the room and
slipped through the auditorium door. More sur-
prises were in store! No sooner was the python
put back into its bag and a
native king snake introduced
than the auditorium door
Opened and a large number

demonstration to soldiers at Ft. Monmouth

.
’ u

39‘

 

SERVICE MEN IN THE OUT OF DOORS 395

of excited soldiers came filing in by groups—hub-
bub fashion— filling the room. Those who had

I not been curious enough to tackle the front row
evidently had been out close by waiting for word
to pass. The first report must have been a good
one—judging by the mushroom-like growth of the
3 number of men who were drawn to the auditorium.
Apparently here was something both interesting
and exciting! The King, Gopher, and Indigo
snakes made many new friends in a very short
time—thanks to the ability of a skillfully trained
naturalist to impart to his audience within a few
minutes many interesting facts about the habits of
‘non-poisonous snakes. By the time the Copper—
'head had made its appearance, all the men, in-
cluding those who had been afraid of all snakes,

. had become intensely intrigued in this new venture. '

The climax of the evening was provided by. the
big Texas Rattler, a Western Diamond. Even
before it was taken out of the large black metal
can, its rattle had caused no little un-
easiness among the assemblage. Mr.

' Kauffeld tossed this rattler upon the
stage where he lay coiled while the cura-
tor quickly wound his way through the
dressing room to reach the stage. Ser—

I vice men seated nearest the front sat on
the edge of their seats as if expecting
the rattler to charge them any second.
Some of them seemed glad that their
duties in guard work required them to carry their
guns at all times. But they had nothing to fear for
the snake was just as frightened as they were! As
Mr. Kauffeld cautiously circled his steps about the

I snake the crowd could see this beautifully pattern:
ed rattler slowly turn its head and a short portion
of its body to follow every slight move of Mr.
Kauffeld, the rattle vibrating all the while and
sounding like the loud clicking of a movie camera.
The snake’s American colonist attitude of “Don’t

lTread On Me” was in evidence at all times'. To
demonstrate this American attitude of striking
only in self-defense of liberty Mr. Kauffeld thrust
a balloon, tied to the end of a stick, towards the

.rattler, and the snake struck with a lightning—like
speed, bursting the balloon. The zoo curator then
skillfully caught the rattler, gripping it firmly back
of the head, and exhibited it throughout the audi-
ence with its mouth wide open. By placing a
tongue depressor between the snake’s jaws the
men could plainly see its erected fangs and the
deadly poison drop.

The demonstration ended with a discussion of

 

the beneficial habits of snakes to man ;-how man
can avoid molesting snakes; the nature of bites
from poisonous and non-poisonous snakes and the
proper procedure for the treatment of such bites.
Those who had missed seeing the python asked
for it to be shown again, and with its second ap-
pearance the first front-seaters felt quite friendly
to their new found Australian friend. Though a
variety show was scheduled to go on at the end of
this exhibition, Mr. Kauffeld could hardly break
away, so urgent were the men for answers to
their many questions.

One lieutenant who had been present was visi-
bly impressed with the effectiveness of the demon—
stration and its possible educational and recrea-
tional values. He urged Mr. Kauffeld to return and
stated that the next time he came his entire com-
pany would march over for the program. He added
he felt confident that as a result of this demonstra-
tion that members of his command, many of whom
were from metropolitan areas, would not _
become panicky at the sight of a snake.
Moreover, it was his feeling that the
demonstration would cause the members
of his company to find more interest in
their natural environment.

Why Reptile and Wildlife
Demonstrations?

Reptile demonstrations such as that
given by the Staten Island Zoo have been success-
fully presented to USO Clubs and on Army reser-
vations by the Bronz Zoo staff members, John
Tee-Van, Executive Secretary; Robert Mathew-
son, Curator of Reptiles; Wm. B. Bridges, Di-
rector of Public Relations; and G. Earl Chace,
member of the Reptile Staff; and by Wm. H. Carr,
Director of the Bear Mountain Trailside Muse—
ums, Palisades Interstate Park, and his staff mem-
ber, N ina'Thomas. Future demonstrations are to
be presented by Cornelius Benslow; staff member
of the Children’s Museum of Brooklyn, and by
Roger Conant, Curator of Reptiles of the Phila—
delphia Zoo.

Wildlife demonstrations are one phase of the
USO programs to introduce a natural history pro—
gram to service men. The program, which was
initiated last June with the cooperation of the lead—
ing national and federal agencies concerned with
nature recreation, conservation and wildlife, has
as its objectives the development of interests and
abilities among service men which will enable them
to feel at ease and adapt themselves to their

396 SERVICE MEN IN THE OUT OF DOORS

natural environment and to be able to enjoy that
environment wherever they may be located. To
the men who are stationed in remote areas where
but few other forms of recreation are available,
and to the men who are on the high seas or who
are on duty in jungle and wilderness areas, such
a program will have as its results untold physical
and morale values.

For the majority of all armed forces war neces-
sitates a rigorous outdoor life, and for the first
time in the lives of many thousands of men they
find themselves living in the out-of—doors. It is
common knowledge that some people never want
for recreation or education while they have access
to nature; other persons lind life in a natural en—
vironment quite difficult. News reports indicate
that life in China, New Caledonia, Australia, and
Iceland does not need to be monotonous, although
not in the thick of the light; on the other hand,
these places can provide opportunities for recrea-
tional and educational living and avenues of great
interest. Some service men can easily adapt them-
selves in new natural environments and even find
real peace and recreation amid their hazardous
tasks.

In addition, the importance of a nature educa-
tion program in the protection and conservation
of wildlife and natural resources cannot be over-
looked. An increasing interest in wildlife and of
the world’s natural resources, and a knowledge on
the part of service men as to how each can be
preserved, may be the means of saving certain
species of wildlife and forms of natural resources
which otherwise might disappear.

Exhibits and Pictures Available

Before initiating a broad program on a wide
scale the’USO decided to introduce demonstration
programs in the eastern section of the United
States. This procedure met with the approval of
members of the Subcommittee on Education of the
Joint Army and Navy Committee on Welfare and
Recreation who endorsed the program. To demon-
strate the value of portable exhibits, Dr. Charles
Russell, Curator of Education for the American
Museum of Natural History, offered to turn over
his entire department to the production of six of
these exhibits. After the first two exhibits, “Poi-
sonous Plants, Insects and Reptiles,” and “De-
fense of Man and Nature” had been produced and
placed, the USO approached Colonel T. E. Darby,
Commanding OHicer of the Army's 'School for
Special Service, located at Fort George G. Meade,

,the value of the exhibits have been evidenced to

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  

to acquaint him with the possibilities of the pro-
gram and to interest him in requesting an exhibit
for the school. Colonel Darby stated that he felt
the exhibits possessed both recreational and mili-
tary values and requested the demonstration e'x-
hibits. The USO arranged for the first exhibit to
be displayed to Lieutenant Colonel Spaulding, Di—
rector of the Army’s Educational Division, prior
to its delivery to the school. Lieutenant Colonel
Spaulding visualized the possibilities of the ex-
hibits for service men and requested all six demon-
stration exhibits for the Special Service School.
During the first part of September, the last two of
the six exhibits were delivered to Colonel Darby.
According to recent information from Dr. Russell,

such an extent that the Army has entered into .
contract with the American Museum of Natural
History for the production of approximately ta
exhibits per week for the next year. The exhibi
will be placed in the Army’s Service Clubs. Oth
subjects already selected for future exhibits are:
“Camoufiage,” “Nature Superstitions,” “Flight,”
“Signaling,” “Foods,” “Metals,” and subjects per—
taining to various foreign combat areas.

Four units of four pictures each are being loane
for USO Club usage by the U. S. Forest Service
The units present both scenic beauty and a con
servation message. Additional pictureswill be pro
duced for the cost of materials.

The Office of Information of the Department n
Agriculture is_sending the USO ten of each of i
three exhibits, “America Calling—More Po
Now,” “Nitrogen Is Going to \Var," and “Ev
Day Eat This \Vay.” These exhibits will be plac
in the industrial USO Clubs. Exhibits which .
in the process of preparation or planning
those of the Children’s Museum of Brooklyn 3
the Philadelphia Zoo, the Newark Museum,
Milwaukee Public Museum in c00peration \
the local Boy Scout Council and the Nati
Park Service. The National Boy Scout Councx
contemplating cooperation in the exhibit progr
and plans to encourage local councils and tr
to prepare exhibits for USO Clubs. This c00p
tion would entail considerable organization
supervision on the part of the local scout e '
tives; consequently, the scout oliicials should
highly commended for offering to assist in t
program.

Among the exhibits which have special app
to service men are the electrical nature game
Two of these games were loaned to the USO by

SERVICE MEN IN THE OUT OF DOORS

The fascinafing na’rure game for +he use of USO Clubs by
board which has been prepared I . j +he Na’rional Audubon Society

 ' kmmwiln
, N“ i‘; via-ck aogtp‘quc '
99w: hm:sz Hit-mun“
was? an“ . sn.-Mm, L
W“
Pit-Eh} {Ella ‘ 2 clips“;

 

398 SERVICE MEN IN THEOUT OF DOORS

the Bear Mountain
Trailside Museums. An—
other, prepared specifi-
cally for USO Club use,
has been completed by
the National Audubon
Society. This game was
prepared by James Cal-
lajhan, Director of the
Roosevelt Bird Sanctu-
ary, under the direction
and with the assistance
of Roger Tory Peter-
son of the National Au-
dubon Society. Inas-
much as the cost of ma-
terials for one of these
exhibits is between five
and seven dollars the
Army and Navy De-
partment of the Y.M.-
C.A., one of the oper-
ating agencies of the
USO, is studying plans
for having a large number of
them produced by some public
school system. Such games can
provide the service men with
considerable information and new avocational in-
terests by appealing to their preference for electri-
cal and mechanical devices and for games of skill.
Electrical nature games and other designs of me-
chanical devices can be used for plane and ship
identification, identification of geographical features
of world zones and foreign combat areas, and other
purposes. '

The U. S. Fish and W'ildlife Service prepared
the film “Wild Wings,” which has been used for
exhibit purposes and from which duplicates can be
made. The film “Hills and the Seas,” produced
by the Harmon Foundation, has been used by the
USO for exhibit purposes. These technicolor
‘ sound films present conservation messages of
nature and wildlife with majestic sound and rare
scenic beauty.

looks on various phases of nature recreation .

and natural history, timely pamphlets and current
magazines of state conservation departments, mu-
seums, zoos, federal agencies, national organiza-
tions. and publishing companies have been dis-
played before USO Club directors at their train-
ing institutes.

Other activities of the natural history program

 

Courtesy National Audubon Society

Planes or ships may be substituted
on the board for birds in this in-

triguing game of identification

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
   

for USO Clubs can in-
clude picnics, outdoor
cookery, campfire pro-
grams, nature explora—
tions, fishing, winter
sports, visits to near-by
places of interest and to
museums, zoos and
parks in the metropoli-
tan centers, native
crafts, sketching and
the preparation of
natural history exhibits
for the club.

Possible Resources

The natural history
program which was be-
gun by the national of-
fice of the USO is now
being conducted for th
USO by the Army and
Navy Department of
the Y.M.C.A. Through
this agency of the USO the
writer wishes to present the fol-
lowing list of possible resources
as suggested aids to USO Club
directors and agencies interested in natural history,
with the hope that through cooperative efforts
broad and effective program can be introduced to
service men_: .

State Conservation Departments—including divi-
sions: of state parks, fish. and game and forestry.
Ofi‘icial publications. Samples: Outdoor India

and Iliichigan Conservation magazines

Official state road maps listing state and nationa

parks and forests, historical sites, scenic areas
universities

Information relative to hunting and fishing sea

sons and privileges

Motion pictures and color slides of wildlif

scenic areas, and natural resources

Pamphlets on wildlife and natural resources

Assistance in program leadership from par

naturalists and other personnel.

Museums of Science— state, municipal, privat
park, school and university.

Official publications. Samples: Living Muse:

of the Illinois State Museum, Natural Histor
of the American Museum of Natural History,

and Hobbies by the Buffalo Museum of
Science

Exhibit loans—existing and those specially pre-

pared for service men _
l Motion pictures, color slides, and illustrated

lectures.

    
    
    
   
   

olleges. Universities. and Agriculture Extension

. Departments

Pamphlets on plant and animal life; motion pic-
tures and color slides; information on natural
resources ; exhibits of local natural history
and natural resources; program leadership.

ocal Park and Recreation Departments

Program leadership; information on recreation
facilities; assistance in preparation of exhibits
and mechanical devices.

ational Recreation Association
. Publications; Consultation Service; information
L on recreation facilities and activities.

I lubs: Audubon. Astronomy. Older Youth. Nature.

Outing and Boy Scouts .

Program leadership assistance; news sheets;
publications; loan of telescope; exhibits and
assistance in exhibit preparation; scrapbooks
of outdoor activities and nature subjects.

'oological Societies
Wildlife demonstrations; illustrated lectures;
motion pictures and slides.

_ Official publications. Samp'les: Fanna by Phila-
delphia Zoo (see September 1942 issue for
articles—“A Naturalist in Uniform” by Ser—
geant Frederick A, Ulmer, Jr., and “Don’t
Tread On Me, Rattlesnakes of the United
States” and “Rattlesnake Facts and Figures”
by Carl F. Kauffeld), Animal Kingdom by
the New York Zoological Society, and Zoo-
nooee by the San Diego Zoo.

cal Nature Hobbyists

' Loan of collections; preparation of exhibits and

l assistance in the preparation of exhibits ; lead-
ership for excursions; motion pictures and

0 color slides; illustrated talks.

ature Hobbyists Among Military Personnel

Program leadership; preparation of exhibits;
interpretation of exhibits; talks; leadership
for nature explorations.

pderal Agencies and National Organizations

U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Forest
Service, Information and Extension Services
of the Department of Agriculture, National
Park Service, American Association of Mu-
seums, and the National Audubon Society.

SERVICE MEN IN THE OUT OF DOORS \ 399

Literature; motion pictures and color slides; il-
lustrated lectures.

Publications

Books. Samples: Nature Recreation by Wm. G.
'Vinal; Picnic Book by Fredrikson; Byways
to Adventure by Edwin Way Teale; Onr
Small Native Animals by Robert Nediger;
Down to Earth by Alan Devoe; Singing in
the Wilderness by Donald Culross Peattie;
The Sea Beach by August F. Arnold;
Weather and the Ocean On Air by William
H. Wenstrom; and Essentials of Astronomy
by John Charles Duncan.

Magazines. Samples: National Geographic,
Natural History, Natnre Magazine, Recrea-
tion, American Forestry, Fauna, Animal
Kingdom, Hobbies, Z oonooee, S by and Tele-
scope, Living illiisemn, Field and Stream,
Audubon Magazine, and oflicial magazines of
state conservation departments.

Timely Pamphlets pertaining to natural history
—state and federal agencies and organiza—
tions. Sample: “Insects in Relation to Na-
tional Defense,” Bureau of Entomology and
Plant Quarantine, U. S. Department of Agri-
culture.

At the Recreation Congress held in Baltimore in
1941, much of the discussion at the section meet-
ing on Nature Activities centered about the oppor-
tunities open to nature leaders in making available
the values of nature study to the personnel of the
armed forces of the United States.

The question was raised as to whether nature
study as a form of recreation would appeal to an
appreciable number of service men. The experi-
ences of a number of those present indicated con-
clusively that if nature leaders will make the
proper approach to the subject, keeping in mind
the advantages of using natural leaders who may
or may not have had technical training in the
sciences, and also realizing that people in a strange
community are curious about the city and its
natural and historic features, nature activity pro-
grams should attract many of the men.

The delegates at the meeting recommended the
enlistment of volunteers in localities to formulate
programs and encourage leadership of trips, em-
phasizing always the enjoyment of the scenic,
scientific, and historic values in sections of the
country in the vicinity of concentrations of armed
forces and civilian defense workers.

ATreasure Hunt: Fun 0t Thrills!

 

s SOON as THE NEW Kansas City Museum had
A opened its doors, steps were taken to insti-
tute a progressive educational program.
Young socialites were organized into an associa-
tion known as the Kansas City Musettes. After a
summer school session under the leadership of the
director, they were ready to take over the respon-
sibility of the junior education program . The du-
cational, recreational, and social program carried
on by this group of enthusiastic volunteers would
have done justice to an old established museum.
The most popular of the many educational ac- ' it.

tivities carried on at the
museum was the treasure
hunt. Come with us some
Saturday morning to the
museum and see for your-
selves how the children
thrill to the fun and ad-
venture of this activity!
When the massive doors
open and the attendant
waiks down the path to
the iron gates, a group
of youngsters by the front
gate, some of whom have
been waiting a long time,

400

Courtcsy Children’s Museum, Kansas City

Forty years ago Anna Billings Gallupl curator
emeritus, Brooklyn Children's Museum, devel-
oped the children's museum program that today
is so popular. Among the numerous attractions
were various types of games. Four years ago
Miss Moore, tormer curator of education of the
Boston Children's Museum, developed a new
game known as the Treasure Hunt which has be-
come popular in many museums. Miss Mildred E.
Manter, Director, through publications and in con-
ferences with museum officials, has shared these
new ideas with all the tield. And now Mr.
Forbesl through his article, takes us on a Sat-
urday morning visit to the Kansas City Mu-
seum where the Treasure Hunt idea has been
embellished with new thrills and surprises.

JOHN RIPLEY FORBES

Kansas City Museum

A treasure hunt is never
without excitement, but
when a museum becomes
the scene of action there
are more thrills than ever!

send up a rousing cheer! In they troop to the spa
cious hall and go to the game table at which a
attractive musette sits ready for a busy morni
with her young charges.
women stand by ready to aid the young explore
in their exciting wanderings through the sevent)
two room mansion. One floor of this large buil
ing is used at a time for the treasure hunt gam
On the table are crayons, pencils, game board
paper and, most interesting of all, a gay colore
treasure chest with pirate pictures painted all ov
Each child receives a small typewritten que

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
 

By

Former Director

Several other youn

tion, the first clue in t '
exciting game, and so
all have started on an e
pedition of exploration.

The Hunt Is On!

The first question
clue reads:

“My tail is long
My jaws are wide
My voice is rough
And 50’s my hide”

Excited children set 0
in different directio
through the spacious hall
of the museum in searc

A TREASURE HUNT FULL OF THRILLS! 401

of this strange creature,
and the hunt is on. Some
make for the bird hall,
others the animal hall and
so it goes, each child look-
ing for what he believes
will be the right answer.
Those who are correct
locate the alligator in a
spacious case of reptiles,
and on the outside of this
case, near the alligator,
find a tiny typed clue at-
tached to the glass. On
their sheet they have hurriedly written “alligator,”
after number one, the first clue, and now they read
the new clue:

“I’m the biggest creature in the world
And I live in the deep, dark ocean,
Waves are furled against each other
Whenever I make a motion.”

If the young treasure hunters are very familiar
with the museum exhibits, the answer to this
question is speedily discovered, and we soon find
excited children gathered in an attractive hall look—
ing up at the bones of a huge mounted whale.
Sharp eyes readily spot the tiny clue in an in—
conspicuous place on the whale exhibit, and soon
the children are reading the new clue, after having
put the name “whale” against question number two.

Looking over the shoulders of one little fellow

you read the following:
"‘Fish are my dish
And reeds are my nest.
My legs are long
And I have a green crest.”

To discover this answer the children must search
through the bird hall until they locate the long—
necked, long-legged green heron mounted near its
nest in the reeds of a habitat group in which
numerous shore birds may be found. Sharp, trained
eyes spot the green heron from among the other
shore birds and soon another clue is located near—
by. This one is sure to stump most youngsters.
It reads: ”

“Across I went and back again
\Vith a horse upon my back.

I made the trip a thousand‘times
Yet never made a track.”

This puzzler will bring most youngsters into a
good many of the halls before they locate the right
object, which turns out to be the horse-powered
ferry boat in a case of transportation exhibits in
the historical room. There another question faces

To many of usI in childhood daysI the museum
was something less than a delight! lts atmos-
phere was forbidding. and the crowded exhibit
halls with ponderous labels were for studentsI
not tun-loving children. The few visits we
made were with our parents. for children were
not welcomed by the stern-faced guards. To-
day the modern museum opens up opportunities
that stretch the imagination. Children visit it
not once a year but day after day. lts effect
upon their present and future is far reaching.
The modern child explores the countless ex-
hibits in a spirit of fun and exploration. and his
horizon is broadened as knowledge is acquired
through his contact with the museum program.

the Young explorers, and
on the chase goes until the
twentieth question is
found, perhaps at the base
of the large oriental Bud—
dha at the head of the
grand staircase, or at‘the
foot of the American bison

in the center of the animal
hall.

The last question may
read as follows:

“If you’ve been sharp

With your brain and eyes
Go back to the game table
And claim your prize”

Or the question directing the child to the game
table may vary from week to week and read:

“Now you have gained knowledge

As well as wholesome pleasure,

Take your score sheet to the table
Where you may claim your treasure”

Or perhaps :

“If you’ve found each clue

Its time for your surprise.

And this is your clue—

To return and claim your prize.”

On reaching the games table the child hands his
question sheet to one of the musettes, who checks
the numbers to see that the young explorer has
found the proper clues. They must, of course, be
in the right order for otherwise it would be im-
possible to reach the end of the trail.

The Treasure Is Found

The great moment has now arrived, and an
excited child is allowed to stretch his or her hand
into a colorful treasure chest in which are various
kinds of exciting treasures, any of which would
delight a child. After moving about and feeling
this and that, the little hand emerges with a beau—
tiful pink colored sea shell clutched in its fingers.
Delight and wonderment register on the face of
the well-satisfied treasure hunter.

On another Saturday you may see a child take
an attractive mineral out of the treasure chest, or
some excited boy may bring forth a real “honest-
to—goodness” Indian arrowhead. Still another type
of treasure very popular with the children are the
small mounted photographs of favorite exhibits.
Children play week after week and obtain these
lovely pictures, eager to have a complete set for
their museum scrap books. '

402

You may well ask, in regard the shells, min-
erals and arrowheads, how we can afford to give
away museum specimens like this. These so-called
museum specimens are duplicate items of which
the museum has large numbers, most of them
being very common material without any scientific
data at all and with little, if any, display value.
\\"ere they not used in the treasure hunt the mu-
seum would dispose of them. To the youngsters
they are treasures of the most valuable sort and
the start, in many cases, of school or attic muse-
ums. Here indeed is an ideal way in which to use
this type of material of which most museums have
a great abundance.

The clues for our treasure hunts were made up
by one of the \\'PA research workers, and the
children looked forward to them each week. A list
of the subjects in the museum which we wanted
as the basis of the week’s treasure hunt were
turned over to this worker, and the clues worked
out. Another member of the staff would then type
the clues out and affix them to the proper case.
After this a list of all clues and the proper answers
would be made in their
proper order so that the

 

A TREASURE HUNT FULL OF THRILLS!

Reaching the end of the trail, the eager child
delightedly draws her treasure out of the chest

musette stationed at the game table on Saturday
would have the necessary information with which
to check the young explorers’ papers.

Some of the small museums, and the museums
which do not have the facilities to change exhibits
as often as do. the large museums, may ask
whether this game will not wear out after the
exhibits have all been used. The answer is, “Not
at all,” for by changing the wording of a question
or by altering the order of the hunt and other
details, the treasure hunt does not lose its interest
even in the more stationary museums. For ex-
ample, on the skunk here are two clues used dur-

ing different weeks of the treasure hunt. One is:

“They call me many names
And Gee! it makes me wild

For people cuddle my cousins
‘Who are silly, soft and mild.”

The other clue reads:

“Look for the white stripe

And tail that curls up high

But if you meet me in the wood
You’d best let me pass by.”

Children from all over Kansas City visited the
museum so frequently that

(Continued on page 418)

     

Courtesy Boston Children's Museum

l

A Recreation Board for Washington, D. 

HAT HAPPENS in

Washington is always

of interest to the en-
tire country, and the fact
that on April 29, 1942,
President Roosevelt signed
H. R. 5075 creating a Rec—
reation Board for the Dis—
trict of Columbia will have
special importance for the
recreation movement.

In establishing a Board of
Recreation, Washington has followed the example
of a number of the nation’s large cities, but the
creation of such an official body in the nation’s
Capital is particularly significant because of the
unique character of the local governmental machin—

ery, the Federal nature of the city, and the local .

conditions in Washington.

The seven-member board appointed has author—
ity over a recreation program conducted on park,
school, and District of Columbia property, con-
solidating the three separate programs that once
existed under the National Capital Parks, the
Board of Education, and the Playground Depart-
ment of the District. Under the cooperative
auspices of an unpaid board, four of whose mem—
bers are lay citizens, policies, personnel“, program,
maintenance, and expenditures for organized pub—
lic recreation have been unified.

In addition to the citizen members, two of whom

'are women, the Board includes representatives of

the Board of Education, the District Commission—
ers, and the Superintendent of the National Capi-
tal Parks who serves in an ex officio capacity.
Members of the Board are as follows: Dr. Frank
W. Ballou, Superintendent of Schools; Walter L.
Fowler, Budget Officer of the District of Colum—
bia ; Mrs. Ethel S. Garrett; Mrs. Alice C. Hunter,
President of the Federation of Parent-Teacher As—
sociations; Irving C. Root, Superintendent of the
National Capital Parks; James E. Schwab, Chair-
man of the Recreation Committee of the Board of
Trade; and Harry S. Wender, Executive Vice—
President of the Federation of Citizens Associa—
tion. The Board has chosen Milo F. Christiansen
as Superintendent of Recreation. '

The Board selects its chairman and secretary
from its citizen membership. It determines policies,

After years of careful study a Recreation
Board has been established in the nation's
Capital. Successful bodies of this type
have flourished for years in CincinnatiI
San Francisco. Baltimorel Los AngelesI and
many other cities. However, with the eyes
of the country continually on Washington'
the fortunes of the Recreation Board and
its staff in the District of Columbia will
be watched with special interest through-
out the United States. Their success will
be an inspiration to other communities.

selects a superintendent and,
on his nomination, .other
members of the staff; frames
a budget for consideration
by the District Commission—
ers and the Congress; ad-
ministers the program; and
arranges for the construc-
tion and maintenance of
properties. The authority
given the Board as to pro-
gram covers a complete and
varied range of leisure interests of all the types
known to community recreation programs. Re—
ceipts arising out of operation of the, program go
into a trust fund available to the Board. The main-
tenance and improvement of areas and facilities
under the jurisdiction of the three agencies in-
volved in the consolidation are provided for by

agreements between the Recreation Board and
these agencies.

Historical Background

Although a consolidation in recreational services
in the. District ‘had been proposed as early as 1930
by the National Capital Park and Planning Com-
mission in conjunction with its coordinated plan
for recreation properties, no systematic and con-'-
tinuous effort to secure unification was launched
until February, 1935, At that time the President
created a District of Columbia Recreation Com—
mittee with Frederick C. Delano, Chairman of
the National Capital Park and Planning Commis—
sion and other agencies, as head for the purpose
of achieving a unified program.

This Committee. grew out of a study of recrea—
tion in the District made by the National Recrea-
tion Association the previous year under the_
auspices of the National Capital Park and Plan—
ning Commission, which had been requested to
sponsor such an inquiry by the Council of Social
Agencies. The American Planning and Civic As-
sociation had, meanwhile, through a sub—commit—
tee, thrown its influence toward unification in a
recommendation suggesting a single organization
with jurisdiction over all recreation activities.

Among the weaknesses revealed in the Wash—
ington situation through the Association’s study
were the following:

403

404 A RECREATION BOARD FOR WASHINGTON, D. C.

There were three separate recreation budgets;
three maintenance organizations; three separate
organizations and three separate supervisory
staffs. It was impossible to use the various super-
visory. staffs as a unit when needed. There was
a complicated system of permits for the use of
facilities. The designing and construction of areas
and facilities were done by three different agencies.

As its first choice of a feasible form of adminis-
tration, the Association's report recommended a
Recreation Commission appointed by the District
Commissioners or by the President of the United
States.

The District of Columbia Recreation Commit-
tee appointed Louis R. Barrett as Coordinator. He
began his work in August; 1935. Then came the
slow and difficult process of securing cooperation
and a measure of unity. Meanwhile, the purchases
of the Park and Planning Commission were
steadily accumulating play and recreation proper-
ties for the people of the District.

The way of the coordinator is hard. Reviewing
accomplishments in 1938, he pointed out a number
of substantial gains. He said that the results were
not as positive asimight be expected due to fears
and prejudices of some years standing and of un-
willingness to change program policies and pro-
cedures.

The same year Senator King introduced a bill
to create a separate board of recreation but noth-
ing came of it.

In 1939 the Congress merged the Playground
Department of the District of Columbia and the
Community Center Department of the Board of
Education under the Appropriation Act. Strong
opposition to this step was met by the compromise
of placing the jurisdiction of the combined depart-
ments jointly under the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia and the Board of Education.
In Spite of this awkward arrangement, the merger
(turned out to be a forward step toward coordina-
tion and unification. The staffs of the two depart-
ments were now merged and other consolidations
were effected. One office was set up. Yet when
H. S. \Vagner and Charles B. Sauers filed the
report of their study of the organization of the
National Capital Parks in 1939, they were critical
of the recreation program and reiterated the rec-
ommendation already voiced on several occasions
that a “new and separate commission must be es-
tablished having complete responsibility for the
recreation program in the District of Columbia.”

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
  
   
   
  

In 19.40 further gains in cooperation were ac-
complished. Congress again through the appro-
priation bill voted joint jurisdiction over the pro-
gram by the District Commissioners and the Board
of Education.

In this year it was decided that the time had-
now come to try for legislation creating a perma-
nent and unified system of recreation instead of
continuing to reply upon an awkward and a far
from unified scheme resting on the shaky founda-
tion of a rider in the annual appropriation biLl.
\Veaver W , Pangburn of the National Recreation
Association was retained to advise and assist t ‘
National Capital Park and Planning Commission
and other groups in working for legislation. The
Commission decided to make the securing of St
legislation one of its major projects.

The story of the progress of this legislation, 0
the many hearings before committees of the Hou -
and Senate, of discussions by the President’s Com
mittee, Board of Education, District Commission-
ers, and others and the meetings of civic organiz
tions is too long and complicated to include in th'
article. Although amended and altered many tim
and subject to the varied and conflicting rewri
ings of many groups, the bill eventually can
through with its fundamental features intact. St
by step it obtained the approval of the public a .
the private agencies closely concerned with recr
ation in the District.

Many organizations and individuals played .
important part in securing the legislation. T
press worked consistently for a unified program.

Looking Ahead

The new Board and its staff are confron
with many important problems and tasks. One
the reclassification of the staff. Another is the I
velopment of much needed property now ow
by the public and set aside for recreation l
poses. Prior to the war the National Capital P
and Planning Commission had acquired su '
land to meet modern standards for recreation
poses but there has been a lag in development '
several years. This lag has been aggravated
cently by the activity of the Army and Navy
taking over recreation properties for military
poses. The needs of the city as to program I
been enormously increased during these war (1
by the influx of probably 200,000 or more per .-
newly employed by the Federal government.
outside the jurisdiction of the Board are the g

(Continued on page 422)

Do You Believe in Signs?

By

JOSEPHINE D. RANDALL
Superintendent

Recreation Department

San Francis’co

 

OMMERCIAL ADVERTISING, with its monster ground or park. Designs and construction should
 billboards, huge eye-filling signboards and avoid resemblance to commercial billboards when-
blatant posters competing against each other ever possible.

for the attention of the passerby, has literally cov- Until the recent heavy demands for metal in
ered our highways, streets and even our country war production, San Francisco solved its problem
lanes with countless atrocious “signs of the times.” by designing an artistic sign based on the style of
One of the attractive escapes from the tension the roadside inn and tavern markers of years ago.
of society that is offered by pubs Large wooden signs, heavily

lic playground and park areas The literal translation of the five braCketed With iron and hung
Iis the noticeable freedom from Chinese Charade“. reading from from fifteen foot tapered metal
[commercial advertising. Per- right to leftI is: "Chinese." "Peo- poles, are standard equipment on
laps it may be said that the real Ple." "Recrealion." "Leisure." and all of the city’s playgrounds.
lark of identification for a mu- "Field!" Which “the” Pu+ +°ge+heJi The background is painted a
icipal recreation area is the add UP +0 6 Chmese playgroun ' deep forest green, with hand

ccompanying gap—the carved lettering painted in
pen space that hits our eye light yellow standing out in
the happy lack of “bill- pleasing contrast.
oreds.” Proud of its
Playgrounds Chinatown, larg-
hould, however, est of any city in
avesomeother the United
nark than just their States, San Fran-
reathing space cisco has built a
uality, so that visitors complete playground
ay be able to identify in the oriental motif right
he place where they in the very heart of this
lave been and know the crowded section of the
lame 0f the department : , ~ _ j W city. In keeping with the
‘upervising or maintain- : g} L}  «i0    Chinese architecture of
rig thE area. It is.desir— M  *éwfamélgclg, i. 1‘ T1} the groimd: agd clubé
, e t {It web a 81g“ be  ig‘if‘Eile§;3{§1.’¥Tl‘€§N (Sahib/{£35383le  house: {1e 1?“ cage
ell dlsplayed Wlthout - ‘ “Wm-mew ‘ were; pagoda s1gn p1ctured ere
letracting from the nat- #12:". J,-  extends a cordial wel-
ll'al beauty of the play- Egg—2:1, (Continued on page 424)

405

 
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
  

   
  
  
  
   
         

A...

fax," iv

WW f.  w I? a.“ t" "

 ,- .,  ’- ,i- - ‘5»th ["3 1  *.
- M’”": x ,x{‘ :N \ R‘ d V ..
  Ii“ ‘13; 3.1” J m. ,

   
 
 

 

   

 

Home Play in Wartime ' 1

"We cannot dispense with recreation in the American 1
home and community in time of war,’I Paul V. McNutt.
Federal Security Administrator, says in his foreword
to Home Play in lVartime. "The American people
need to play and they need it now. It should not de-
tract from but should forward the war effort. Children
need recreation normally and even more in times of
tension and anxiety. Adults need recreation because
it helps refresh mind and body for the war's work."

 

Print by chge Harmon

 
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  

0 YOU’RE GOING to be at home again—at home quired a lot of space. Square dancing, for example
S to your family, to your neighbors, and to took up much more space than the rhumba doe
yourself! You’ll be thinking twice before you And space became scarce. Industry grew, citi

spend your money for anything except necessities, became crowded, homes became smaller. We b
because you know that War Stamps will get be— gan to go outside the home for much of our play
hind America’s nghting forces now, and will pro- witness the automobile trips, the movies, the bow
tect your family from inflation at the same time. ing alleys.
You’ll know that America needs its rubber for Now there is a turn in this tide—a return to t
business now, and you’ll eliminate all pleasure deeper satisfactions of family life, of knowing on
trips from your plans. children better, of finding time to be companio
If you have a son, or a nephew, a cousin or a again, and of drawing closer to our friends a
friend in the armed forces, or if any of the boys in neighbors. No matter how complex have been t

your neighborhood have put on a uniform and left reasons for .this—the war, spending of money f
their families, you’ll be eager to stand behind them War Bonds instead of little luxuries, the rubb
in every way possible. And you’ll know what a shortage, higher taxes—the family has come in
hole they have left in the home, and because of its own again. We know now that parents

this, the family will draw a little closer and family children need each other. They need the inter
ties will be stronger. You’ll all want to be to- and experiences of each other, and they need t
gether as much as possible, in your work and in companiOnship of talking together and thinki
your play. You’ll want your home to represent together. Joseph Lee, the father of the playgro
security, and peace and movement in the Unit
, love. You’ll want to find In publishing this material we are giving you a States, said: “When t

out all you can about home peep  the new page booklet. Home  home ceases to be a I)
play. 10 Wartime, prepared for the National Recre- where the child may

- ation Association by Virginia Musselman.0ther . .
Home play—famlly rec sections of the publication deal with C-ivamesI the reason for “5 ems“:

Ration—is nOthing new' ReadingI Radio. HobbiesI Music, Drama, and Will disappear'” This r

It mUSt have begun long Handcraft. The suggestions offered are sim- SOH must never disa-
ago, about the same time ple; any family can easily carry them out and in America. The family
that man began. It has have a lot of fun doing it. A special contri- America.

bution has made possible the printing of a

V . - large number of the booklets for distribution
pla) w1th others than 1t ,0 such groups as PIA-.5. Any individuaI wish , have never played togeth

has been to play alone. ing a copy may secure H by sending +en cen+s or if we have, it has be

Many 0f the 01d, taVOI" to the National Recreation Association to 50 long ' ago that We,
ite games and sports re— cover the cost of handling and mailing. almost forgotten how.

406

always been more fun to And yet many of

   
  
   
 
    
   
   
  

are self-conscious about it. It has been so long
since we have sat on the Hoor, or romped, or
giggled over practically nothing that we’re scared
0 start. We forget, too, that being a playfellow
oesn’t mean actually playing every game with the

ion. In the family there must be the will to play.
Giving them lots of toys isn’t the answer. Any
laything should encourage children to self-activ-
ty, industry and ingenuity. Such simple things
an do this. H. G. Wells has said that one of _his
arliest memories was a play store, in which seeds
11 match boxes and pill boxes were his supplies,
nd old kid gloves, the fingers filled with corn, and
he wrist tied with string, were his seed bags.
Dropping clotheSpins into a milk bottle, tossing
ilk bottle t0ps into a muf-

n tin, piling toothpicks "Simple

HOME PLAY IN WARTIME

inexpensive, stay-at-home rec-

407

And if you want to please a two—year-old, just
give her a silent butler and a pack of cards. The
tray-top gives a most satisfactory bang when it

closes, and she’ll spend hours putting the cards in
and dumping them out!

Do you remember the old singing game:

“This is the way we wash our clothes,
Wash our clothes, wash our clothes;
This is the way we wash our clothes
So early Monday morning.”

Try it when Mary wants to help you make the
beds, or when Bill is r0ped into wiping the dishes.

Instantly work becomes play, and wiping cups is
fun.

Your food budget may be slim, but the meals
can be rich with laughter at no cost except a little
thought and effort. Try serving the meals in dif—
ferent places occasionally, as a surprise. Have a
picnic on the porch; breakfast out of doors; eat

watermelon on the back
steps. And don’t forget spe—

llcross the top of a glass jar
holding your breath when
Eour turn comes to put the
st one in place)—these
are all simple things, but
-they are fun, and everybody

Hn the family can play them
ltogether.

  

reation is possible for every family in
wartime despite War Bond budgets and the
absolute necessity for all of us to save
tires and avoid unnecessary travel. Using
the recreational resources of our own
homes—our radios. books, playing cards.
games. and our imagination—we can keep
wholesome fun and recreation alive during
the war' and make them help win the war."

cial occasions. Celebrate the
end or the beginning of
school with a special din-
ner; a good report card with
a favorite dish; a birthday
with a treasure hunt for
simple presents. Every holi-

" The home is full of such
play equipment, if you only
look around and see the possibilities.
Statistics show that 87 per cent of the American
|lilomes have playing cards. You and your neigh-
ors will continue to get together and play bridge,
ve hundred, pinochle, or gin rummy, or what—
er your favorite card game may be. But have
on forgotten that cards are not necessarily adult
laythings? Try a good, rousing game of Pounce,
I Doubt It, or Donkey, some evening. And
n’t forget Pig, Old Maid, Slapjack, and Grab!
verybody in the family, from seven-year-old
illie to seventy-year-old Gramp will have a won-
erful time.

For a game of skill, try letting the children toss
cards from a distance of five feet into a waste-
Qaper basket while they’re waiting for dinner
some night. Then see if you and Dad can beat
their score. It’s a good test of concentration and
muscle coordination. When you get pretty good
at five feet, try moving back five feet more. It’s
good exercise, tom—picking up all those cards that
missed the basket! Good for the waistline!

Paul V. McNutt.

day can be made into a
party by making simple
place cards, or a table dec-
oration—and let the Whole family make them!
Every now and then throw in a Special celebration
just because you want to, and it’s fun. And invite
the child next door, or the neighbor down the
street. There’s a tremendous satisfaction in sharing.

Try organizing a progressive party. Meet at
your house for tomato juice or fruit cup and lots
of dainty little sandwiches, pickles and celery. Go
on to another home for a lovely hot soup, or a
chilled bouillon. From there, meet somewhere
else for a simple meat and vegetable plate, another "
home for a fresh green salad, and on to ice cream,
cake and coffee. The eXpense will be much less for
each family, and at each house special games can
be planned—a quiz at one, table games at another,
some nice, rowdy ones like Spin the Bottle, Prince
of Paris, and Musical Chairs at another—ending
with playparty games, or square dancing at the
last. The same kind of party can be planned for
the youngsters, and you’ll all have a grand time.

Many magazines have pages of games, crafts,
favors, recipes, and activities that you can try out

408

with your family. Why not start a scrapbook right
away, letting each member contribute anything he
or She finds. Play them first. If they’re fun, put

them in the scrapbook.

Play Space

IVlzat to do is one thing. Il’lmrc to do it is an-
other problem, but here again budgeting comes in.
You’ve budgeted your time and your money. Now
budget your space. Somewhere in your home is a
natural gathering place for family play. It may be
around the fireplace, where you and your boys and
girls can gather, turn down the lights, roast chest-
nuts, p0p corn, sing, play games and tell stories.

It may be around the kitchen stove, so warm
and secure on a cold night. You’ll want to make
toast and cocoa, have a taffy pull (if the sugar
holds out!) and think up all kinds of games to
play with kitchen equipment.

Perhaps you have a good, big porch. It needn't
be just a rocking chair porch. Paint game courts
on the Floor or on the table tops. Put a chest in
the corner for toys. A sand pile might fit into
another corner. Have lots of stools and pillows.
It’s much easier to relax into a play mood if
you’re close to the floor, or on it! Dignity flies

away, and mirth comes in.

\Vherever it is, no matter how limited in size
your home is, provide play space. A three-panel
screen with a door cut in it can make a playhouse
out of a corner of a room. An old sheet hung
over a bridge table makes a good playhouse or
will double for a tent. The boys and girls will love
to play inside it, as private as a desert island. If
you fear for your wallpaper, put
up a strip of denim over the chil-

dren’s corner. And if you
want to teach them to care
for their toys, give them a
place to store them—a place
that is all theirs. It may be
° a cupboard, or a bookshelf,
or a chest that slides under
the bed, but let it be theirs.
Don’t furnish the play
Space with hand-me-down
furniture, unless it has been
cut down to the right size,
and made young and gay
with paint or covers. It
should be sturdy and dur-
able and colorful. Keep the
floor bare, or cover it with

HOME PLAY IN IVARTIME

The children will love to have
a part in preparing for parties

 

Print by Ccdge Harmon (Continued on page 421)

   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
  

washable rugs, or linoleum. A blackboard is wo
derful for rainy days. So are old toys, scraps. ai
storybooks that have been reserved for just su
emergencies. Old magazines, scissors, and a sauc
of flour paste will keep the youngsters busy
hours. Don’t call your son or daughter away fr
play too suddenly. Remember how you hate
stop something in the middle of it!

If you’ve a yard, opportunity for play is limit
only by your imagination and your ingenuity. L ’
cut into two-foot lengths will furnish unendi
fun. Your boys and girls and the children fr
the neighborhood will roll over them, stand 0
them, balance on them, roll them, and use them
hundreds of different ways.

Try dyeing six burlap bags different colors, a
filling them with sawdust or excelsior. The ch'
dren will pile them, sit on them, jump over th
and use them for punching bags. W ooden bo
of various sizes, enameled bright colors, will a 7
offer endless play possibilities.

If you’ve a large tree in the yard, you can ha
a rope swing. A sand box, a see-saw, and a pla
house are easy to make. For the older boys a1
girls including you and your neighbors), horse
shoe pitching, a dart game, shuffleboard on tl
driveway, a net or r0pe for paddle tennis and ba
minton will keep you busy all evening. Croq :
too, is more popular now than it was in the r
Nineties.

If it is possible, build an outdoor fireplace :
grill, and have community picnic suppers out -
doors. Let the fathers cook the meals once in
while. It’ll be more fun if you provide them w'
big white aprons and chef’s c I
They’re easy to make!

Have Sunday morni
breakfast out of doors
long, lazy meal. It’s 5
prising how much better t
news will seem when y
family is around you,
the sky is blue and the -
bright above you.

In the summer, when '
warm, let the children 1
out of doors in their ba
ing suits in the rain.
them build a lean-to or
tent or a shack, and slc
out there on a hot night.
will be thrilling to them.

{5 MILES
. pm

 

Cycling Can Be Fun For Adults

IVE YEARS AGO the
Recreation Board
of our village form-

ed a women’s cycle club
which met with a rea-
sonable amount of suc—
cess from the start. Now
the membership has
more than trebled, and
each weekly trip brings
out new members.
Women who have never been on a bicycle are
learning how to ride, and after a few weeks’ prac-
tice become experienced riders. The bikes are not
used just for fun but are the means of quick and
easy transportation on shopping trips.

In order to belong to the national movement the
Maywood Cycle Club members are affiliated with
the League of American Wheelmen. This brings
them into contact with the other cyclers and takes
them out on many special trips, The dues of this
organization are one dollar a year, and this en—
titles each member to a monthly national bicycle
publication and a mimeographed news sheet from

Any time at all is the right time For
organizing a cycle club, but tall with
its beautiful colors and crisp temper-
ature otters some special inducements!

By FLORENCE ROTERMUND

Assistant Director of Recreation
Maywood. Illinois

the local council. Club
representatives are sent
from all member clubs
to the monthly meetings
to have a voice in the
plans formed.

Our club holds an
election of officers each
year, and all meetings
except the iirst are held
out of doors on the
weekly trips, perhaps around a Forest Preserve
pump or under the shade of an oak tree. A trip
committee appointed at the first meeting plans the
weekly trips ten weeks in advance. The destina—
tions and route of travel are/listed and each mem—
ber receives a copy. The local papers have given
the club weekly publicity along with space for
pictures. The Chicago papers, too, have sent pho-
tographers out for group pictures and have given
cycling a big boost.

The trip committee works out both short and

’ long trips to meet the needs for the inexperienced

and experienced riders. The average round trip

409

410 CYCLING CAN BE FUN FOR ADULTS

for the women is about fifteen
miles, and the longest trip of
'the season is about forty.
Every six weeks an all-day
trip is planned and the group
has a weenie roast, steak fry,
or cats at some commercial
eating house. The other
weekly trips start at nine in
the morning and terminate at
noon. On each trip someone acts as the leader and
another one serves as “rear guard.”
Some of the rules which the club follows are:

Obey all traftic signals, stop lights and stop street
signs.

The rear guard will use her whistle as follows:
Stop: 1 blast; go, 2 blasts; caution—slow, 3 blasts;
off the road, 4 blasts.

Try to stay together. Obey the rules given by the
leader.

Ride in single file near the right edge of two lane
highways. Ride in two's as near as possible to the
right hand edge of our lane highways.

Ride in a straight line, don’t weave in and out.

If you leave the group at any point of the trip report
to the leader.

Use arm signals in making turns.
Do not ride ahead of the leader at any time.

Since the women’s club met with so much suc-
cess, evening rides have been added for the work-
ing women and the men. The first trip brought
out twenty-one riders who formed an excellent
nucleus for the mixed group.

ular recreation

One of the advantages of bicycling is the carry-
over into other activities results. Here in May-
wood practically all of the cyclers will return for
the winter program of volleyball which is spon-
sored by the Recreation Department of the village.
The new reed baskets for bicycles have become
popular with our group of cyclers, and we plan to
have a weaving class this winter so that the women

can make their own baskets for use on the bike
next spring.

Recreation departments which have not added
cycle clubs to their programs
will find this an excellent time
to start!

The present-day popularity
of bicycling focuses attention
on some of the historical
facts regarding its develop-
ment. These have been issued
as follows by the Cycle Trades
of America, New York City.

Bicycling has again become not only a
means of inexpensive travel but a pop-
activity for adults.
Once more the "bike" has found a place
in the American home. Father. mother.
son, daughter, do their traveling by
bicycle and find it both enioyable and
convenient. The old-time bloomer girl is
no more, but the modern girl has dis-
covered a keen interest in this activity.

"Bicycle riding is one of the best-known
exercises for keeping one in good condi-
tion. It brings into play all the impor-
tant muscles tending to create health.
Most exercise which is done for a pur-
pose is a taskI but bicycling is a lot of
fun while being beneficial. Bicycling has
three important essentials—tun, health,
and economy. It you will remember al-
ways to be considerate when riding you

will find this true."—E. H. Broadwell.

    
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
 
 
     
   
    
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
    
  

The bicycle is probably
oldest fabricated article ~
being manufactured in \ '
the basic principles have 1
least changed. The first .
in 1818, had a saddle, t
wheels and a handle-bar, .
these features are still 1
tained, but it had no pe
and was called a “walk-a] o
because when seated astride one could push h'
self along with his feet faster than he could
Pedals were introduced in 1839, over a cent
ago.

In the 60’s, the first of the so-called “b
shakers” was produced. This had a larger w
in front and iron tires, and when pedaled o
rough roads and cobbled streets shook the ri
terribly, hence the name.

The first all—metal bicycle was produced in
70’s. Those also had large front wheels and sn
rear ones, and while still called bicycles v.
known as the “Ordinary” type. The height
inches of the front wheel denoted its size, .
the tall man with his larger wheel had a deci
advantage in speed over the smaller man. In tl
period also the “Star” or small front wheel
cycle came into use, but it never attained t
popularity of the “Ordinary.”

In the 80’s the first “Safety” was made. T
had both wheels of the same diameter and a cha
transmitted -power from the pedals to the r
wheel. By this method it was possible so to g
the bicycle that a small powerful rider had -
tively the same advantage as the man on t
higher wheel.

In the late 80’s came the pneumatic tire, w '
gained great popularity in the early 90’s as -o
as its comfort and advantage were realized
appreciated.

Prior to the advent of the motor car, the bic
reached its height in the
called “Gay Nineties,” and
that period its greatest
nual production was ar
1,200,000, but between t
and twenty-five per cent
those were exported.
domestic retail sales of r h
yearsexceeding 1,000,000 ,
bicycles yearly, bicycl'
proves its popularity.

   
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  

" NIil-IALS, Adaptive Coloration in,” Hugh

B. Cott. Oxford University Press, New
York, 1940. 508 pp. $8.50. Although Darwin’s
theory of “natural selection” is out of date, here is
some interesting evidence on the sub ject,

Atmosphere. Sheep were once kept in Roger
Williams Park, Providence, for atmosphere. Two
Morgan colts carried out traditional plantation
atmosphere at George \Vashington Birthplace Na-
tional Monument, Virginia. A camp which I re-

as a nature museum with the traditional show
cases and upholstered, glass-eyed mammals. What
profanity!

Bartram, John (1699—1777). This Quaker
farmer on the Schuylkill built his stone house with
his own hands. Over the door of his greenhouse

appears the inscription:

"Slave to no sect, who takes no private road,
But looks through Nature up to Nature’s God.”

One day, weary from plowing, he stopped to rest
and by chance noticed a daisy. His study of the
flower’s orderly structure was the inspiration for
his lifeelong interest in Botany. Bartram bought a
bookseller’s only botany, and mastered a Latin
grammar so he could read Linnaeus. Self-taught,
he was America’s first native—born naturalist and
created the first botanical gardens.

Biography. “Modern Americans in Science and
Invention,” Edna Yost, Stokes, New York, 1941.

270 pp. $2.00. Seventeen biographies adaptable
for story hours.

“Cojj‘ee, The Story of.” American Can Com—
any, 230 Park Avenue, New York. 40 pp. His—
ory, maps, recipes.

Conservation. “The great wilds of our country,
nce held to be boundless and inexhaustible, are
eing rapidly invaded and overrun in every direc—

ion, and everything destructible in them is being
I estroyed. How far destruction may go it is not
£asy to guess. Every landscape, low and high,

eems doomed to be trampled and harried. Even
he sky is not safe from scath—blurred and black-
ned whole summers together with the smoke of
res that devour the woods.” This statement by

cently visited contemplated using an old grist mill '

it’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

John Muir (1838—1914) is as' true today as it was
when first written.

“Conservation Education, Foundations of,”
edited by Henry B. Ward. Order from Retail
Book Department, Science News Letter, 1719 N
Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 242 pp. $1.00
cloth, 60¢ paper. What some of the most active
researchers and thinkers have to suggest about
conservation education.

“Crater Lake, The Story of Its Origin,” Howel
Williams. University of California Press, Berke-
ley, Calif. 97 pp. $1.75. Simple and convincing.

Dedication. The following inscription is from a
plaque in a State Park near Johnstown, Pennsyl-
vania: “United States Department of the Interior,
National Park Service, Blue Knob Camp No. 1,
dedicated August 7, 1938. In recognition of the
beauty of nature, combined with the vision and
skill of man’s labor, this camp is dedicated to the
growing love of the out of -doors ; the building of
physical vigor and health, the abiding spirit of
friendship, human and Divine.”

J)

“Dog Training, Companion, Hans Tossutti.
Judd Publishing Co., New York. How to make a
well-bred companion of the average dog.

Earthquakes. “Our Trembling Earth,” Joseph
Lynch, S.J. Dodd, Mead and Co., New York,
1940. Illus. 202 pp. $3.00. A popular picture, in
humanistic style, of amateur seismology.

Guidance. “Science Calls to Youth: A Guide
to Career—Planning in the Sciences,” Raymond F.

Yates. Appleton—Century Co., New York, 1941.

205 pp. $2.00.

“Museums, College and University,” Laurence
Vail Coleman, Director of the American Associa—
tion of Museums, W ashington, D. C., 1942. 73 pp.
Although this is a “message for college and uni—
versity presidents,” it might be studied by others

concerned with campus museums.

“Natural History and the American Mind,”
William M. and Mabel S. C. Smallwood. Colum-
bia Studies in American Culture, No. 8. Columbia
University Press, New York, 1941. Illus. 445 pp.
$4.25. Daniel Treadwell, educated at Harvard, in

(Continued on page 426)
411

A Young People's Symphony Orchestra

By MARGUERITE CRESPI MARSH
Chairman. Citizens' Committee
Young People's Orchestra

EST HARTFORD, Con-
Wnecticut, a town of

thirty-six thousand
with a town manager admin-
istration, is largely residential, having only a few
industries on its southern perimeter. It has a pub-
lic school population of 5,185 including kindergar-
tens, elementary schools, junior, and senior high
schools.

In the spring of 1941 the town of West Hart-
ford participated for the first time in National
Music \Veek and produced a musical program
during the first week of May in which public and
private schools and citizens’ organizations took
part. High school and junior high school orches-
tras and bands gave a series of concerts, and there
was one huge chorus of children’s voices and
smaller choruses of adults. Much interest was
shown by the large audiences at the several events,
and some talent was discovered.

A citizens’ committee, which cooperated with the
Department of Recreation in sponsoring the May
Music Festival, later evaluated the results of this
first program and realized that there was a large
number of young people taking instrumental music
lessons and that sufficient interest in music was
evidenced to make a junior symphony orchestra a
possibility. It was recognized that the success of
such an enterprise hinged largely on the right
leadership—a conductor who knew music and
children, and a citizens’ committee willing to sup-
port his efforts and interpret the whole plan to the
community. During the summer of 194I, after
considerable correspondence by the Department of
Recreation, a young man was found within the
town of \Vest Hartford.
He possessed the neces-
sary qualifications and
proved to be a gifted leader
of young people, winning
their confidence and the
enthusiastic support of the
committee and the parents.

The Orchestra Is
Organized
In the early fall a Junior
Symphony Orchestra Com-
mittee met with the De-

412

The purpose of the Citizens' Committee which
is in charge of the Young People's Orchestra
of West Hartford is to give the young people
of the town the opportunity to play together.
with all the fun that involves. and to encour-
age an acquaintance with good music. The
committee intends to continue this effort in
the season of l942-43. believing that a knowl-
edge ot good music. with the cooperative et-
tort essential to becoming a successful mem-
ber of the orchestra. makes for emotional bal-
ance and happiness for young people living in
the confusion and strain of a country at war.

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   

partment of Recreation and
with Peter Page, the first
conductor-to-be, and laid tl
preliminary plans for bud-
geting and organizing an orchestra. The Depart-
ment of Recreation agreed to finance, temporarily,
the first year’s budget; the music room of the
\Villiam Hall High School was rented for Sat-
urday mornings from the Board of Education; and
the conductor generously accepted an honorarium
instead of the salary which such leadership de-
serves. Through the newspapers and by letter
to the schools, an invitation was sent out to the
young people of \Vest Hartford and the metro-
politan districts of Hartford of which West Hart-
ford is a part. Membership was open to any young
person from nine to nineteen years of age who
could play a musical instrument reasonably well
and read simple music. Auditions were scheduled
for successive Saturday mornings.

Thirty-five young people came to the first audi
tion and some twenty more through the year, mak
ing a total of fifty-five. Each child was given a1
unhurried and sympathetic hearing by the con
ductor. Thirty-five were eventually qualified, an
there was an average attendance of twenty-fiv
throughout the season. The majority of the youn
people were 'twelve years of age. There was not
musically gifted young person in the group. So
cially and economically it represented a cross-sec
tion of the community.

It had been the hope of the committee to inter
est the high school group of twelve to ninet
years of age, but they were conspicuously abse

from the auditions. After some inquiry it w
found that the high scho
students objected to t
name “Junior Sympho
Orchestra,” and also tl
they wanted to play “swin
music. The name w.
changed to the “You:

People’s Symphony O
chestra.” The Saturda
morning rehearsals we
organized into a young
and older group—the olde
group representing largely

A YOUNG PEOPLE’S SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 413

senior high school students fourteen to nineteen
years of age. A program of classic swing repre-
sented by the George Gershwin music was begun
with the older group. After a very few rehearsals
it was evident that serious work was not contem-
plated by the senior high school group. All but
two trumpeters dropped out altogether, and the
swing program was set aside. The two trumpet-
ers, a high school boy and girl, sixteen and eight—
een years old respectively, were added to the sym-
phony orchestra. They were admired and re-
spected by the younger musicians for their skill as
trumpeters, and in the ensuing months their lead-
ership was a real contribution to the whole en-
deavor.

We, of the committee, watched from rehearsal
to rehearsal the growth of unity in the orchestra,
each young person measuring his ability against
his neighbor, often unconsciously, and finding his
place in the whole. The group had only average
musical ability and one rehearsal a week did not
make for rapid progress; however, slow progress
was there. Individually they began to watch the
conductor; to start and finish with precision; to
try, consciously, to keep in rhythm; and to listen
to the musical quality of their individual instru-
ments, and to the music produced by cooperation
of the group.

The Orchestra Begins Its Performances

On January 31, 1942, the conductor invited the
parents to a parents’ concert to be held during re-
hearsal time in the regular rehearsal room at the
high school at 10:00 A. M. Attractive programs,
carrying on the front page the first ten bars of
“America” were prepared by the Publicity and
Program Subcommittee. A twenty-minute pro—
gram of simple classics was presented. The selec—
tions played were “The Star-Spangled Banner”;
“Curious Story” and “Wild Horsemen” from
Scenes From Childhood by Schumann; “Colonial
Minuet” ; and the “Triumphant March” from Aida
by Verdi. Grandfathers and grandmothers, par—
ents, and young brothers and sisters, plus the com-
mittee, made up an appreciative audience of fifty
persons who listened with complete attention. The
young people’s pride in “belonging” to the sym-
phony orchestra was apparent. The committee
recognized that the preliminary steps toward the
production of symphonic music had been well
begun. We realized, also, that there were just ten
rehearsals before the orchestra must take part in
the May Music Festival of 1942.

Through the months of February, March, and
April, slow but steady progress continued. In the
middle of April, a concert was planned and given
on the stage of the Edward Morley School—an
elementary school of kindergarten through the
sixth grade, the pupils of which were invited to be
the audience. The chairman of the committee pre-
sented the Young People’s_Symphony Orchestra
to these young students and invited them to join
the orchestra as soon as they were old enough and
could play reasonably well. The program began
with “The Star-Spangled Banner,” the audience
standing and singing together. It was followed by
a march by Jacques de St. Luc ; “Gigue” by Graf
Logi; a theme, piano sonata by Beethoven; a
march by Handel; and selections from Hansel
and Gretel, especially arranged by the conductor.
This last necessitated a change of key and tempo
halfway through the selection, thus testing their
skill. The attack on the first orchestral selec-
tion was very ragged, some lagging behind a
whole beat. The conductor called a halt and smil-
ingly waited, then started again—this time with
precision. His pleasant manner broke the tension
among the performers at this their first public
appearance and restored their confidence.

Three weeks later this same program was played
during the May Music Festival in the beautiful
auditorium of the Sedgwick Junior High School
on Saturday afternoon, May 9, 1942, before an
audience of adults and children. As we of the
committee watched and listened critically to this
second playing of the program, we saw a smiling
confident group playing with precision and quality
not present three weeks before. In that brief in-
terval between the first and the final public concert
of the season, the orchestra seemed to have grown
six months in the maturity of its performance. At
the end of the program the young people were
asked to choose the selection they liked best, and
the most difficult piece—the selections from H (m-
sel and Gretel—was the unanimous choice. It
was played again and so admirably that the audi-
ence arose in its enthusiasm and applauded and
applauded. At this final concert fourteen string
instruments, seven wind instruments, and two
young people alternating at the piano made up the
orchestral group. The orchestra and audience ad-
journed after the concert to the school cafeteria
for ice cream and cookies. There, too, we thanked
the conductor, the young people, and the friends
who had cooperated through this first season, and

(Continued on page 426)

Music at Plummer Park

‘ CONTRIBUTION to the fu-
A ture of American music
is being made at Plum-

ni-er Park. the Los Angeles County community
center in Hollywood, for it is there that Peter Me-
remblum of the University of Southern California

has found a home for his California Junior Sym-
phony Orchestra.

Nowadays, to be sure, almost every school and
playground has an orchestra or two, so important
is the place which music has come to occupy. But
this particular group has earned unusual distinction
and the County Recreation Department is proud
to have a part in its work.

Every Saturday and \Vednesday two hundred
young musicians representing fifteen nationalities
gather for rehearsal. coming from all directions
within a radius of fifty miles. They are learning
musicianship as only symphonic works can teach
it under the leadership of Mr. Meremblum. They
experience the deep satisfactions which come from
fine performance, and very often they receive rec-
ognition and praise from distinguished musicians
who are not uncommon among their visitors. They
gain poise, these young artists, as individual talent
and achievement bring first one and another to
the podium as soloist with a full symphonic ac-
companiment played by their peers. And they have
the invaluable ex-
perience of sup-
porting the inter-
pretation of out-
standing visiting
artists and of fol-
lowing the baton
of eminent phil-
harmonic conduct-
ors.

Since the work
of the senior divi-

. "——"-

"Young and beau-
titul" heroines must
live up to their
roles in the Ameri-
can Music Theatre

414

By FLORENCE LEWIS SCOTT
Hollywood. California

sion of the orchestra is mature
out of proportion to the aver-
age youth of the pi. u , ,
composers frequently bring to the group .for p.-
formance their untried manuscripts, or recognized
artists their new or unpublished arrangementsThel'e
is genuine reward for the great conductors sash 3i
Stokowski, Walter, Rodzinski, Barbirolli, 0" .
and Iturbi who find time to direct the orchestra
and who are amazed at the ability of the young
musicians. Theirs is the joy of knowing that tl *
torch of great music will be carried in the hen
of these immature but devoted musicians.

A number of the orchestra’s members h
already found places for themselves in the w c
of professional music and have won success, 5 v ;
of them very early in life. Not all of the players,
however, are bent on musical careers. They win
lend their gifts to other professions and pursuits,
but their firsthand knowledge of great symphonic
works will deepen their understanding of the dis-
cipline and emotional release which were the es-
sence of their early training, and will enrich
their experiences in life and the contribution
which they will make to community living.

Peter Meremblum asks for no other reward than
to know that_these boys and girls are having t ;

(Continued on page 422)

 

WORLD AT. PLAY

 

THE playgrounds of
the Township of Union,
New Jersey, are en—
joying a novel game
board known as the “Union Game Board” because
of its development in Union, N ew Jersey, and be-
cause it is a union of games.

The board measures 10 feet by 12 feet and is
raised 10 inches from the ground. There are
enough games on it to keep more than sixteen
children occupied at one time. The border around
the edge where the children sit while playing the
games is painted dark gray. In order that the
weather will not harm the board two light coats
of a good grade of outside varnish were applied
after the lettering was completed. N o marking of
any kind is required as all games are played with
checkers.

The idea originated with Mrs. Esther Egbert,
Supervisor of Recreation in Union, and with
Mayor Biertuempfel.

A Novel Game Board
for Playgrounds

UNDER the leadership
of Arthur Todd of
Stephens College, who
served last summer as
- music specialist for°the Westchester County, New
York, Recreation Commission, a series of “clinics”
was held at the Westchester County Center. The
staff of instructors included a number of experts
in song leading, such as Geoffrey O’Hara, song

Clinics Held for
Song Leaders

leader and composer; Hugh Ross, director of the
Schola Cantorum; and others. The meetings,
which were held once a week, were devoted to
such subjects as “The Psychology of Crowds,”
“Techniques in Handling Community Sings,"
“How Can Music Be Used More Effectively in
Helping Win the war ?” The aims of the clinic
were the training of leaders, the promotion of in—
formal singing, and the discovery of local volun-
teer leadership.

AFTER taking a poll
of his block, a Chi-
cago'block captain
(OCD) discovered
that there was enough talent in it for a dance
orchestra, according to the 0CD News Letter for
June 30, 1942. He checked off eighteen pianists,
including himself, a concert violinist who is a
policeman, a Russian accordion player, a bugler,
saxophonist, harmonica player, church organist,
several trumpeters, and a bevy of singers. There’s
never a dull moment! He is planning to enlist all
the talent for entertainment at block meetings.

Block Captain Polls
Local Talent

AT THE end of June,
1942, the Public Rec-
reation Commission of
Cincinnati, Ohio,
opened fifty—five playgrounds. The shortage of
workers has brought into prominence volunteers

415

Airport Playlield in
Cincinnati

416 WORLD AT PLAY I

who have come both from among the adults of the
city giving regularly of their time in considerable
numbers on the playgrounds and from the boys
and girls, many of whom are serving as junior
leaders. .

The Commission’s greatest service to war work-
ers and men of the armed forces is being given at
its three recreation fields, including Airport Play-
field. “One has only to visit the Airport Playfield
any day of the week and to talk with the players
to find out that a large number of those engaged
in war industries are finding recreation during
their off hours at the Playfield. Men of the armed
forces are coming in increasing numbers.” The
month of June, 1942, showed a 75 per cent in-
crease in attendance as contrasted with June, 1941.
New activities at the Airport Playfield include
canoeing, which has become very popular, and the
children’s swimming pool. -

Delegates to the Recreation Congress had the
opportunity of seeing this outstanding playfield.

Center Dedicated in Centralia—On July 9,
1942, Centralia, Illinois, dedicated its new City
Hall and recreation center with a program of
music and addresses. The building was formally
presented to the Board of Recreation, of which
John H. Higgins is Superintendent, by the Mayor,
\Vendell \V. \Vebsters. L. H. Weir, field secre-
tary of the National Recreation Association, made
the dedicatory address.

Gifts to Houston—That the Houston, Texas,
recreation program is deeply rooted in the com-
munity's life is reflected in the number of areas
which have recently been given to the city of rec-
reation purposes and in gifts of funds recently
made the Recreation Department. Mrs. John T.
Mason has given $25,000 for an addition to the
community building in Mason Park, and a similar
amount has been given by Miss Annette Finne-
gan for the development of Finnegan Park for the
colored residents of that section of the city.

Recreation in Industrial Plants—The W' est
Point Manufacturing Company, Lanett, Alabama,
has a Department of Community Recreation in
charge of activities in five communities. Robert A.
Turner, formerly Superintendent of Recreation in
Radburn, New Jersey, is coordinator of the activi-
ties in the five communities, each of which has a
\Var Service Center with a full-time-secretary in
charge of each center under the supervision of a

committee consisting of the mill superintendent, '
personnel director, recreation director, and the
school superintendent. At Langdale, Alabama,
Victory Gardens have been particularly popular,
and the season was climaxed with the judging of
the gardens by the local county agent and the
awarding of certificates. Physical fitness classes
for volunteer defense workers have been particu-
larly successful at Langdale and at Lanett. At
Lanett and Fairfax, tot lots have been organized
for children of preschool age whose parents are
employed in the mills. Athletic contests followed
by social events have been arranged with various
teams from Fort Benning, Georgia, and groups of
soldiers have been invited to attend the various
programs planned by the Recreation Department.
\Vith the increased interest in bicycling the De-
partment has organized bicycle clubs in each com-
munity.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 

Finding Volunteer Leadership—Local civic
groups in Lakewood, Ohio, who were having dif-
ficulty in securing volunteer leadership, consulted
the Director of Public Recreation who called to-
gether the PTA Recreation Commission. The sit-
uation was explained to them, and enough volun-
teer leaders were finally found by the committeer
to meet local needs.

Building Airplanes for America—Approxi-
mately 5,000 school systems involving 6,000
schools, 8,000 instructors, and about 300,000 pupils
have participated in the project of building scal
model aircraft for the Air Service, according to the
July Ist issue of Education for Victory, which has
replaced the magazine School Life for the dura-
tion of 'the war. These figures are based on re-
turns from forty of the states participating.

A Recreation Training Institute—Last sum
mer Montclair, New Jersey, held the first recre-
ation training institute ever conducted jointly by
all public and private social agencies engaged '
recreation activities in the city. The institute w
held under the auspices of the Summer Activiti
Committee of the Council of Social Agencies, wit
Robert Crawford, Director of the Recreation Di
vision, acting as chairman. The institute was at
tended by sixty-three staff members and volu
teers from the various leisure-time agencies.

In El Segundo, California—The Junior Em-
ployment Agency in El Segundo provides for the

WORLD AT PLA Y 417

registration of children for work within the thirty—
three organizations in the city. Work comprises
such duties as cutting yards and running errands.
The children operate under the agency and under
the direction of an adviser. Future plans include

the publication of a junior weekly newspaper
staffed by the children.

Need for Recreation in Wartime—Robert P.
Lane of New York City has pointed out that in a
period of upheaval and danger the need for recre—
ation service is heightened rather than lessened.
L He warned that a marked reduction might appear
to be a measure of economy but may actually
prove to be wasteful, may lead within a relatively
short time to conditions costly to the taxpayer and

harmful to the community in general. He stated '

that the services performed by recreation workers
are of the utmost value and urged their main—
tenance at the highest level possible. He quoted
reports from Great Britain showing that juvenile
crime had increased and adult crime decreased
during the war months there.

Music Foundation Receives Bequest—An en-
dowment received by the will of the late Marie L.
Beyerle has been formally accepted by the Read—
ing, Pennsylvania, Music Foundation. The bequest
was given expressly for the purpose of bringing
outstanding artists to Reading to perform with the
Reading Symphony Orchestra.

The Reading Music Foundation is a non-profit
corporation whose purpose is the advancement of
line music in Reading. Its primary beneficiaries
are the Reading Symphony Orchestra and the
Reading Choral Society, but its support is also
given the free band concerts in City Park which
were originally initiated by the Foundation.

“Blackout” Entertainment—A form of enter—
tainment for children during blackouts was tried
out in June at the opening of the new library at
the Boys Club of New York, Tenth Street and
Avenue A, New York City. A series of musical
radio script records developed by Mrs. Molly
Donaldson, composer and organist, and Miss
Madge Tucker of the National Broadcasting Com-
pany were played to twelve small boys between
the ages of seven and ten and their younger sisters.
“Cinderella,” “Little Black Sambo,” and other
tales were narrated in part by Milton Cross, ac-
companied by group singing, and in part by Ted
Donaldson, eight year old son of Mrs. Donaldson,

*
** *ik

* DIAMOND’S *
PART in the WAR

About ninety per cent of our tactory's
output is for Army. Navy. and Air
Corps use. We are working 24 hours

a day. 7 days a week to help supply
tools for the war machine.

Such all-out effort is necessary in
P spite of the sacrifices of civilian busi-
ness. We're in a war and we're in TO

WIN! When that job is done. it'll be
back to BUSINESS AS USUAL.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CD.

46") Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

   
  

1k 1k
1k 1k

whose stories were punctuated by the singing of
children. The children, rather self-conscious at
first, eventually relaxed and joined the singing on
the records which they generally agreed were
“swell.”

The use of records to entertain children during
blackouts has been tried in England. Children’s
voices were not used, however, but Mrs. Donald—
son believes that the sound of other children’s
voices will be effective in making the children feel
at ease.

At Lions Pool, Oakland ~— The Oakland,
California, Recreation Department has established
the following rates at Lions Pool in Dimond Park:

Week days, other than school days, and 'school
days to 3:30 P. M., 20 cents; after 3:30 P. M. on
school days (Oakland Public Schools calendar), 9
cents; Sundays and holidays, 30 cents—children’s
groups of fifteen or more, accompanied by an
adult, each 10 cents; use of pool before or after
regular hours, regular daily rate.

Classes in swimming instruction and life saving
are organized upon request from a sufficiently
large group.

418 A TREASURE HUNT FULL OF THRILLS!

Play Contest Announced—Plays, the Drama
Magazine for Young People, is offering a prize
of $100 for the best one-act play for children. The
contest is Open to any resident of the United
States, and the contestant may submit as many
manuscripts as he wishes. Any type of children’s
play in one act is eligible. The winning play will
be selected not only for its dramatic quality but
also for its producibility by children of grammar
or junior high school age. Further information re-
garding the contest, which will close November I,
1942, may be secured from the Prize Contest Edi—
tor, Plays, 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Massachu-

setts.

American Education Week 1942—For the
first time in its twenty-two year history, American
Education \Veek will be observed this Year on a
wartime footing. This year’s theme will be “Edu-
cation for Free Men.” Again this year the Na-
tional Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N.VV., \Vashington, D. C., has prepared
material which interested groups can use in ob-
serving American Education Week. For complete
information about these posters, leaHets, stickers,
manuals and plays write directly 'to the National
Education Association. Date—November 8-14.

A Treasure Hunl: Full of Thrills!

(Continued from page 402)

it was possible to use treasure hunt clues in a
popular children’s quiz program, and great fun
was had by all as the announcer asked the children
present in the studio, and the large unseen audi-
ence, whether they know what such and such a clue
described. Some of the popular ones used on the
air were:

“I'm big and round

And by the Indians made.
Storing food for them

\Vas the part in life I played.”

This applied to a large Indian basket holding a
prominent spot in the Indian Hall, a basket large
enough for several of the small explorers to have
used as a hiding place were it not under glass.

“Men in gray followed me
Through battles fought in vain

\Vhere I flew, Old Glory
\Vas soon unfurled again.”

A Confederate Hag part of a Civil War case
showing Union and Confederate uniforms, weap-

ons and various articles of war was the answer tiOI

this one:
“In my dress of woven rope
I’ve slept two thousand years.
You can tell just who I am
By the way my head appears.”

  
  
   
 
   
   
 
    
 
     
  
    

This odd sounding clue applies to two roy
Inca mummies some two thousand years old.
The historical room and transportation exhib'

was the source of the following clue:

“I rumbled over the prairies,

In me folks placed their trust.
Signs upon my sides once read:
‘California or Bust.’ ”

Museum material going back in time to 12
BC. entered the treasure hunt in the followi ,

clue :

“I’m made of semi-precious stone
\Vas buried with bitter tears.
Round an Egyptian’s neck I hung
For many, many years."

A fierce looking figure of an Indian brave wea
ing articles of costumes from famous Indians w

the source of the following:

“Around my neck are bear claws

I’m wearing a feathered bonnet.

My shirt is rare because it has

A host of scalp locks on .it." (700 locks.

The small children's pride and joy is the lar,
shaggy buffalo standing in the center of the Anii
Hall, it is easily recognized by the following clu

“I’m a shaggy, useful beast

Who roamed the \Vestern plains.
Long before the settlers came
\Vith horses, guns and trains.”

Thus countless clues from the popular treas
hunt fire the child's imagination both within t
Museum and in the radio audience.

That the popular treasure hunt is a unique .
valuable asset to any museum program has be
proven. The one question which comes to o
mind is how to make this popular attraction ser
as many children as possible. '

May those of us entrusted at this grave -t'
with the important task of promoting educati
and recreational programs for children make
use of our opportunities! There is no consi
ation more important to the success of the \
effort and the future of this war-weary world tl
the leadership of youth, the hope of tomorrow. '
must use every device to keep the horror of
from damaging the future generation. May
wholesome activities as the treasure hunt contin
to make the modern museum one of the great
factors for keeping morale high on the home front

     
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
    

A HALLOl/VE’EN BARN FROLIC 419

A Hallowe'en Barn Frolic
(Continued from page 379) .

arrived, and award a prize of popping corn or a
packet of seeds to the person who collects the most
beans.

Throwing darts“ at a target is always a popular
pastime with young and old. Paste a silhouette of
_three cats perched on a barnyard fence and yowl-
ing up at a harvest moon on an orange sheet of
paper about twenty-five inches square and mount
on heavy cardboard. If you have a dartboard, use
that as backing. With chalk draw a circle marked
“5” on the first and largest cat, and smaller
circles on the other two, marked “10” and
“15” respectively. If you like, include the moon
in the game and mark it “20.” Until ready for
use, the board will add to your decorative scheme.
When it is time to play, have the contestants stand
about ten feet from the board. Three to eight darts
may be used, but each person should have the

same number of shots.

“Lassoing the Scarecrow” is another game of
skill and is more difficult than it seems at first.
Bring in your scarecrow doorman and tie him to
a clothes tree or fasten him in a Christmas tree
holder. Give each person five attempts to lasso
him. Award a prize to the person who has the
highest score or who succeeds in roping him four
out of five times.

A less active but no less entertaining. game is a
pumpkin seed threading race. Divide the guests
into groups bf four. Give each relay team a needle
and thread and a bowl of wet, slippery seeds. The
object of the race is to see which group can com-
plete its necklace first. At the signal, Number
One in each team threads three seeds and passes
the bowl and chain to NumberoTwo. Numbers
Three and Four do the same when it is their turn.
Hallowe’en candy makes a good prize for the
winning team.

Refreshments. Doughnuts, red candied apples on “

sticks, or popcorn balls and cider are easy to serve
to a large group. They will disappear in a trice,
too. If you want to surround the refreshments
with a bit of mystery, serve them sight unseen.
Suspend barrel hoops horizontally from the ceiling
by cords tied at intervals around the rim. Put
raisins, nuts, doughnuts, popcorn, fruit, and the
like, in vari-colored cellophane bags and attach
them to the rim of the hoop. Be sure to include
at least as many bags as there are guests. When

©W aw ATHLETIC

helium EQUIPMENT

Mr: u, w t 'lm: Runner (2019.. "Hill use St... lcs Angelcs. 5a”.
Bran-Jr 18!! H. miner Dr E! "rage at

 

you are ready to serve refreshments, spin the
hoop and have the guests grab a bag. One or
more hoops may be used depending on the number
of guests. Cider or coffee, of course, would be
served from the refreshment table.

A striking refreshment table centerpiece is a
jack-o’—1antern set between two pairs of black
candles in holders made from husked ears of corn.
To prevent the holders from rolling, remove three
rows of kernels from one side of the ears. In the
center of the opposite side cut a hole to fit your
candle. The result will be oblong holders right
out of Farmer Brown’s cornfield.

Bibliography

1. Teaching Physical Education in the Elementary
School, by E. Benton Salt and others. A. S. Barnes &
Co., New York. $2.00

2. The Golden Book of Favorite Songs. Hall 8: Mc-
Creary Company, Chicago. 20 cents

3. Singing America, compiled by A. D. Zanzig. National
Recreation Association, New York. 25 cents

4. Parties, Musical Mixers, and Simple Square Dances,
prepared by Ethel Bowers. National Recreation As-
sociation, New York. 50 cents

5. Tricks Any Boy Can Do, by Joseph Leeming. D.
Appleton-Century Co., New York. $2.00

6. All-American Square Dances, by “Allemande” Al
Muller. Paull-Pioneer Music Corp., 1657 Broadway,
New York. 50 cents

7. Musical. Games. Extension Circular 509. Coopera-
tive Extension Work in Agriculture and Home
Economics. University of Nebraska Agricultural
College, Lincoln, Nebraska

8. Spatter Prints. Bulletin M. B. No. 496-9-37. Na-
tional Recreation Association, New York. Free

9. Paper Bag Masks. Bulletin M. B. No. 510. National
Recreation Association, New York. Free

10. Hallowe’en Fun Book, prepared by Minneapolis Hal-
lowe’en Committee, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 25 cents

Thanksgiving
(Continued from page 375)
Spread of the tradition to the southern and western
states was gradual.
Abraham Lincoln composed one of the most

420 ERNST HERMANN

"Stunts and Entertainments”

By Ethel Bowers

0 Now available—No. 2 in the "Parties
Plus" series by Ethel Bowers of the
National Recreation Association.

Here are amusing stunts for all oc-
casions—activities requiring no pre-
paration: simple activities requiring
some preparation,- short stunts: sug-
gestions for pageants from drama-
tizations; sketches and playlets; and
variety show ideas.

In planning parties either for civilians
or service men, this booklet will be

invaluable.
. . . Price 50 cents

*‘k'k

National Recreation Association

3|5 Fourth Avenue New York~Ci+y

 

famous Thanksgiving day proclamations in 1863
at a time when the nation was divided in Civil war.
The following year he set the fourth Thursday in
November as the annual date for Thanksgiving,
later changing it to the last Thursday of the month.

Lincoln’s proclamation read as follows:

“I do therefore invite my fellow-citizens in every
part of the United States, and also those who are at
sea and those who are sojourning in foreign lands,
to set apart and observe the last Thursday of Novem-
ber next as a day of thanksgiving and praise to our
beneficient Father who dwelleth in the heavens. And
I recommend to them that while offering up the
ascriptions justly due to Him for such singular de-
liverances and blessings they do also, with humble
penitence for our national perverseness and dis-
obedience, commend to His tender care all those
who have become widows, orphans, mourners, or
sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in which we
are unavoidably engaged, and fervently implore the
interposition of the Almighty hand to heal the wounds
of the nation and to restore it, as soon as may be
consistent with the divine purposes, to the full en-
joyment of peace, harmony, tranquility, and union."
From “Messages and Papers of the Presidents” by
Richardson. Volume VI.

Today the governor of each state follows the
President’s proclamation with one of his state, tak-

. be packed with paper and hung in a cool dry pla

  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
 

Ernst Hermann

ERNST HERMANN died on August 31, 1942,
the age of 73. For years he was well kno
to recreation workers throughout the country c
the recreation executive of Newton, Massach
setts. He had also served as Dean of the Bost
University Sargent College of Physical Educati -

Ernst Hermann was a second generation r
reation leader. His father before him in Germa .
had been one of the pioneer leaders in recreatior
Ernst Hermann himself had come to the Uni
States in 1893 so that for nearly half a century 1
had lived and worked in our country. As early
1909, with statesmanlike vision, he was urging th
importance of industrial recreation, was advisi _
wisely about the play for young children. Afte
Ernst Hermann had retired, he took up carvit
at the age of seventy, and was very successf
with it. Gardening was also a very special recr
ation interest.

Ernst Hermann will be greatly missed in recr
ation circles.

ing into account the resources and assets of t
individual state, and making the home the centr
theme.

"Make and Mend It"

(Continued from page 384)

causing it to dry out and crack. Neatsfoot c
Viscol oil will help to remedy this condition. .
application should be made on the uppers and
outsoles. Keep the oil away from rubber cle
Remove lime and mud from shoes before dryi
\Vearing football, baseball and track shoes t
stone or concrete Hoors should be discouraged.

Football Helmets and Shoulder Pad-s. Tl

articles are made primarily of leather covering .
felt or foam rubber padding. Leather should
treated as previously indicated. Helmets sh

Shoulder pads should not be piled up, as they
mildew and be pressed out of shape. These arti
should not be suspended by the elastic straps.

Archery Tackle. All bows should be unstr
when not in use. Hang bow on ground quiver .
tween rounds on the range. Do not lay it on
ground. When not in use, the arrows should I
racked in a dry place. The rack should be so c
structed that there will be three pressure points o

INFORMAL VOLLEY BA LT. .421

Informal Volley Ball

INFORMAL VOLLEY BALL, especially for mixed
groups, has become very popular in the public
parks of Baltimore and vicinity. As a carry-over of
the physical fitness classes which were intensively
organized in public school buildings in February
and later taken out into the parks, the men and
women eighteen years of age and over still con—
tinue to play mixed volley ball.

At other parks, informal valley ball is much en-
joyed by mixed groups from fifteen years of age
and up and at still another park a lively group of
boys and girls whose ages range from twelve to
fourteen years play regularly every evening.

There is some variation in the rules used in
informal volley ball but generally they adhere to
the following:

RULE I—The game is played for twenty—one
points.

Variations—15 points; IO minute halves.
RULE 2—Each player serves in turn, rotating as
as in men’s rules.

Variations~—rotation by line; no rotation.
RULE 3—There is one service only with an assist
optional.

Variations—no assist.
RULE 4—The ball may be touched twice in suc—
cession by girls, and once by boys. Only three
people may play the ball on a side.

Variations—one touch for both boys and girls;
two touches for both boys and girls.

RULE 5—Rules not covered are governed by Of-
ficial Rules for Women.

The mixed game is so acceptable here that even
though played formally, where the rules are strictly
adhered to, there are many interested groups play-
ing on the grounds in the county and city high
schools.

The girls and boys, young men and young
women, and the more mature men and women
are well matched so that interest in the game is
sustained throughout the year. From Luella B.
Snoeyenbos, Supervisor of Girls’ and Women’s
Activities, Department of Recreation, Baltimore,

Maryland.

the arrow, two of them two inches from either end
and one in the middle to prevent warping.

Wood. Wooden equipment such as bats, golf
clubs, hockey sticks, javelins, etc., are built to last

 

“The Christmas Book”

IT is not too early to begin your planning

for home and community Christmas cele-
brations, And here is a booklet for recrea-
tion leaders, teachers, club leaders, and
others who wish to plan special Christmas
programs and to inject into their celebra-
tions something of the charm and beauty
associated with the old traditional Christ-
mas customs.

In the various articles which make up the
booklet will be found novel ways to dis-
tribute gifts at Christmas parties; sugges-
tions for enlivening the program of Christ-
mas caroling; and many interesting ideas
from the Christmas customs of other lands
for party themes, decorations, and re-
freshments.

Order your capy now

Price 50 cents
NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION
I 315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY ‘

for long periods of time and will do so when pro—
perly cared for.

Moisture is the main source of difficulty. When
necessary a good Coat of spar varnish will protect
the wood. Javelins and vaulting poles should be
stored in a manner that will prevent warping.

General. Athletic equipment is expensive to
manufacture and increasingly difficult to get, and
therefore deserves the care recommended.

Home Play in Wartime
(Continued from page 408)

And in the wintertime, there can be as much
fun as in the summer. Play snow games, like
Dodge Ball with snowballs, and Hold the Fort—
and see how few colds your family catches! Make
snow men and snow angels; improvise a snow
slide; roast potatoes and hot dogs in the fireplace.
Have fun!

Family fun will take a little time, a little effort,
and much imagination, but it will be a big war
bond, paying a rich dividend in family spirit and
morale. It will mean a rich, happy childhood, and

422 MUSIC AT PLUMJIER PARK

Junior Arts and Activities

for the Elementary
Teacher

and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils

0
THE MOST COMPLETE
EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these
two monthly
publications
can help

, 0
Send 25c for Sample Copies to

Iunior Arts and Activities
740 Rush Street. Chicago. III.

‘

 

a growing spirit of neighborliness and content-
ment. Such a spirit is America’s real front line of
defense, and it is your privilege to hold it!

The Children's Hour

(Continued from page 380)
cast from the playgrounds as were many other

special events, such as the Hallowe’en celebration
formerly sponsored by the Recreation Department
and the eliminations in the city-wide marbles tour-
nament on each playground, as well as the cham-
pionship play when all of the playground cham-
pions came together for the final city champion-
ship.

The Children’s Hour has contributed immeas-
urably to the building up of good will for Lynch-
burg’s entire program. Through the radio broad-
casts playgrounds are brought into the homes, and
many parents who would make no special effort to
learn what the city has to offer their children be-
come familiar with the program.

Radio, important as it is, is not, however, the
only medium through which Lynchburg’s public
recreation program is given publicity. Among the
best friends of the Recreation Department are the

newspapers and their reporters whose cooperation
is outstanding.

  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  

A Recreation Board for Washington
(Continued from page 404)

courses and swimming pools and many of ti
tennis courts of the District which, under agr
ments entered into years ago, are operated b
concessionnaires. It may be that eventually th
will come under the jurisdiction of the new Board

Music at Plummer Park
(Continued from page 414)

opportunity they have craved and for which the
are willing to work. And the knowledge that it i
providing a suitable setting for this remarkab
community movement is a source of deep satisr
faction to the Los Angeles County Recreatio:
Department.

The American Music Theatre

Another interesting musical venture at Plumm
Park which is sponsored by the Los Angel
County Recreation Department is the Ameri .
Music Theatre of which George Houston is th
originator. The purpose of this theatre, an organi
zation of young professionals, is to perform oper
in such a way that the average American will Iik
it. This means, according to Mr. Houston, th
the story must be made as important as the music
and it is for this reason that the organizati
is known as the American Music Theatre and t
work infused with true theatre values.

This principle extends to type casting. If tl
heroine is supposed to be young and beautifu
then she must live up to this description. Spok
dialogue is substituted for dry recitative. T
type of acting used is in accordance with the b
traditions of the American theatre.

It is the intention of the founder of this Mu °
Theatre to develop nationalism in this art to s
an extent that an American style of opera will _ ‘
developed. As the tastes and preferences of t
American public are discovered, American tra
tions in opera will develop. Composers will n.‘
their music on these traditions, and a truly *
can opera will come into existence.

Dr. Richard Lert is the musical director of tl
organization, of which George Houston is ._-
director.

On May 14, 1942, “The Barber of Seville” by
Rossini, with new translations and dialogue by
Mr. Houston, was produced in the Civic Audi-
torium at Pasadena.

The rehearsals at Plummer Park are open to the
public, to students, and to anyone interested in
watching American opera in the making.

“ON TO VICTORY”

"On to Victory"

HE “ON ro'VIc'rORY” SHOW brought the 1942
season to its climax for the St. Paul Play-
‘ ground Artists’ Club members. The two hundred
and fifty participants thoroughly enjoyed their re-
hearsals and the presentation of the show. The
' various dance groups, military baton twirlers, Red
Cross nurses, sailors, acrobats, and airline host-
esses received instructions from five different pro—
fessional dance teachers who volunteered their
’services. A chorus of fifty voices with solo singers
carried out the general theme of the show, and
.marimbaphone, violin, and accordian players
added greatly to its success. Proceeds were given
to the Red Cross. '

The club started with a dozen or so talented
youngsters ten years ago and has been growing
steadily. The active membership remains between
300 and 400, for members come and go as their
interests change. During the past ten years, be-
tween I,500 and 2,000 girls and boys have be-
longed for some period of time. A few stay with
the club five to six years.

The object is to encourage talented girls and
boys by giving them a development program
through participation in musical events, radio
broadcasts, bands, orchestras and club activity,
and by providing them with an opportunity to
appear before audiences.

Because of the large number belonging to the
club, the danger of using a few children too often
is eliminated. The churches, PTA’s, and other
groups appreciate this service immensely. They

i pay the transportation costs and $1.00 for the
’ accompanist.

' During the past year, 2,073 entertainers pre—
sented approximately 500 programs with an esti-
mated attendance of 65,805; seven musical revues
with casts of approximately 50 participants were
given in the parks during the summer months with
an attendance of 7,800, and there were 103 broad—
casts with 506 participants.

The Artists’ Mothers Club entertained the mem—
bers at four big parties during the year and
financed the cost of costumes for various shows.

And now our “artists” are getting ready for a
series of weekly musical revues to be presented in

the parks. Fifty different children participate each
week.

 

Happy Days Are
Here Again!

THE study and instruction of Natural

Science takes on a new pleasure and effec-
tiveness with the advent of CANADIAN
NATURE. Directors of Boys' Clubs. Play

Directorsl Camp Counselors, and others
will find practical help in this unique
magazine. '

We believe that RECREATION MAGAZINE has

thousands of readers who would be interested in
the fascinating nature stories, wonderful photo-
graphs, drawings and color plates that appear in
each issue of CANADIAN NATURE—the maga-
zine which captures the hearts of everyone inter-
ested in nature and the outdoors. Parents, edu-
cators, librarians and nature lovers praise and
recommend it. An ideal gift and a magazine
which is needed in every home, school and library.
CANADIAN NATURE is issued in January,
March, May, September and November. Volume
4 for 1942 will contain 180 pages, 80 articles, 35
color plates, 150 photographs, 200 figure draw-
ings. An Annual Index is bound in the November
issue. The magazine enjoys wide United States
school use. The articles are suitable to the whole
of North America. There are subscribers in 43
States.

Money-Back Guarantee

Send coupon, with only $1.25 for one year’s
subscription. If you are not completely satisfied,
after receiving the first issue, notify .us within 10
days and your money will be promptly refunded.

— — MAIL TODAY — — — — — —

CANADIAN NATURE MAGAZINE
I77 Jarvis Street, Toronto. Canada

Enclosed is $1.25. Please enroll me for one year’s
subscription—5 issues-—on your money-back guar-
antee in RECREATION Magazine.

\

Name .............................................................................. ..

Address .......................................................................... ..

 

423

424 THE MAX STRAUS CENTER

Square Dances for Soldiers
(Continued from page 388)

fore the dance and engaged in games provided by
the Courts until time for the dance. At nine o'clock
everyone pitched in and the floor was cleared for
dancing in a very short time.

The Lincoln Recreation Board received gener-
ous assistance in its program from members of
local square dance groups. They served on com-
mittees to help plan the dances, and from their
ranks were drawn callers for the dances. Music
was provided by the Lincoln Unit of the Nebraska
State \V‘PA Music Project, a band which has been
playing for square dancing with gratifying results
for a number of years. A public address system,
was installed for satisfactory amplification.

Lighting of the dance fioor was quite simply ar—
ranged in this instance, as the Muny Game Courts
are located in the same area as the Muny softball
fields, tennis courts, and Muny Pool, with estab-
lished lighting facilities. This area, it was felt, did
Trojan duty this summer, with the square dances

adding a bit out of the ordinary in the way of en-
tertainment for soldiers.

Do You Believe in Signs?
(Continued from page 405)

come to the little Chinese boys and girls.

Outdoor signs exposed to a variety of climatic
conditions and weather changes offer a problem in
maintenance and appearance. San Francisco’s
signs are no exception. With the salt-laden air of
the Pacific and the cooling summer fogs, much
ground work and experimentation has been neces-
sary before arriving at satisfactory paints and fin-
ishes that will withstand these corrosive infiuences.

The San Francisco Recreation Department is
justly proud of the artistic signs designed by W'il-
liam G. Merchant, the Commission’s architect,
which grace the playgrounds of the city. “We
struggled for years,” says Miss Randall, “trying
to obtain something which would be artistic, a lit-
tle different, and entirely satisfactory.” The De—
partment, whose headquarters are at 370 City Hall,
will be glad to furnish additional information on
the design, erection, and maintenance of the signs

to recreation departments in other cities which
may be interested.

   
   
  
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

The Max Straus Center

HE DEDICATION in April, 1942, of the new Ma

Straus Center of the Jewish People’s Instit
in Chicago is a climax of nearly half a century 1
service. Almost forty years ago on the crowd
lower west side there began in a store-front buil
ing a program of community service that in I
reached an aggregate of 900,000 people. In or
a group of young men started a subscription fl‘t
collected $250, and chartered the Chicago Hebr
Institute which in 1922 became the Jewish Pe
ple’s Institute. Ever increasing demands upon i
services led to the building in 1927 of the milli
dollar structure housing the Institute. The bro
halls and Spacious rooms of this building we
soon overflowing with groups of all kinds, .

within ten years it was necessary to build t
Institute Annex.

Today the Institute program ranges from cr
tive dramatics, arts, crafts, social events, and di
cussion groups, all fostering individual personali
deve10pment and civic responsibility, to vocatio
classes and counseling, hobby and interest gr01
and physical activities.

The Max Straus Center, erected to help ho
the expanded program of the Institute, has th
floors. The ground floor is Operated by the Alba
Park Boys’ Club and has a games room, a ra
room, woodshop, and photo room. On the fi
fioor are lounges, library, and assembly hall
which are conducted classes in gymnastics
children and adults, acrobatics, dancing, act'
games, and socials. On this floor, too, are t
locker rooms, check room, lobby, and the office.

The second fioor has rooms for domestic sciel
fine arts, crafts, and volunteers. Here are c
ducted classes in ballroom ballet, tap, acrob
and rhythmic dancing; dramatics; quiet and act
games; art crafts; sewing, dressmaking and
sign; Red Cross work; weaving, cooking,
Charm Club. Preschool children have their qu
ters here.

In the ten group-work activity rooms on
third Hoor there are clubs in journalism, bl
printing, arts and crafts, games, storytelling, p
petry, and rhythm band. English and citizens
classes, a forum, public speaking classes, and
Operetta group also meet on this floor. Two of
rooms are set aside specifically for the Alba
Park Boys’ Club activities.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 425

"Over There”

(Continued from page 387)

deficit will be made up by the Red Cross. All these
facilities are available to the Navy personnel
abroad as well as to the Army, and the Red Cross
is prepared, wherever existing services do not fully
meet the requirements of the bluejackets, to es-
tablish additional centers when requested by the
Navy.

Today’s clubs are an excellent example of “ex-
pansion of service to meet needs”——recreation is
the focal point, provision of a comfortable “civil-
ian” bed and American food the enhancing inci-
dentals.

The full complement of club staff includes the
club director, assistant club director, program di-
rector, personal service director, assistant program
director, and a group of staff assistants.

The “Why” of It

The recreation programs in the clubs are planned
to meet the probable needs and desires of service
men on leave overseas. The attitudes and prac-
tices of the staff are based on this philosophy,
stated as follows in the Red Cross Reading Guide
for Trainees:

“An entirely new setting (country, conventions,
people) offers problems in adjustment. Tensions
arising from the conditions of actual warfare can be
further complicated by the environmental factors.

“The necessity of regimentation and subjugation
of the individual to the larger needs of the Armed
Forces natu‘rally impairs the individual’s feeling of
‘being himself’ or of being a single, important in-
dividual.

“It is not the purpose of planned, informal recrea-
tion to ‘counteract’ the new environment by setting
up a Splendidly isolated American atmOSphere,
suspended in name within the new setting, nor is it
Wrmrmtion to substifEte
licenserand laissez-faire for regimentatiorf E5133??? ‘
these attitudes, engendering a provincial, narrow and
formless program, would be more demoralizing than
nourishing. '

“On the positive side, the American Red Cross
recreationist on foreign soil seeks to weave the new
elements of the environment (the customs, the atti-
tudes, the folkways) into the more familiar fabric
of ‘how we do it in America.’ Such skillful blending
of the foreign and the familiar should help to bring
about the ‘feeling of belonging,’ of being comfortable
in a new setting amongst new people. Next, the rec-
reationist does more than just offer a wide range of
activities; he plans these offerings so that individuals
may participate not only in making choices, but in
helping to set up choices. Further, the recreationist
knows and practices the precept that program in-

 

  
 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZINES
American City, August 1942

“Municipal Priorities for FWA Projects” by Brig.
Gen. Philip B. Fleming, U.S.A.

Beach and Pool, July 1942

“The Cleaning and Disinfectng of Pools” by Paul
Huedepohl
“How to Keep Capital Losses to a Minimum” by

' Paul Huedepohl

"Recreational Swimming” by Nathan H. Kaufman

“Water Sports" by Ann Avery Smith

“The Whys and Wherefores of Insurance for Pools
and Beaches” through courtesy of United States
Fidelity and Guaranty Company

Camping Magazine, June 1942

“Can Girls Whittle?” by W. Ben Hunt
“Children’s Cammng in Wartime” by Paul V. McNutt

“An Open Letter on Priorities” _
“War Hazards to Camps—Your Questions An-
swered” by Maj. Gen. L. D. Gasser

Crippled Child, August 1942
“A Leisure Time Program” by Mrs. G. Marvin
Green
Hygeia, August 1942

“Exercise for Health,” an editorial by Morris
Fish-bein

'- Nation’s Schools, September 1942

“What Pupils Do After School” by Evelyn E.
Holtorf

Parks and Recreation, July-August 1942
“Parks of Central California” by Edgar M. Sanborn

Red Cross Courier, August 1942

“Overtime Antidote” (Swimming) by Carroll L.
Bryant _
“Red Cross Overseas Clubs” by Robert E. LeWIs

PAMPHLETS

Art Education Alert prepared by The Art School, Pratt
Institute, Brooklyn, New York. For sale by The Re:
lated Arts Service, 511 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

Price 10 cents

Basic AimS'for English Instruction. National Council of

Teachers of English _ .
211 West 68th Street, Chicago, Illinois. Price 10

cents

Boys in War-Time. The National Council of the YMCA
347 Madison Avenue, New York City

Children’s Book Week, A Manual of Suggestions
Prepared [by Book Week Headquarters, 62 West 45th
Street, New York City

“Cracking Up” Under the Strain by Edgar V. Allen
American Medical Association, 535 Dearborn Street,
Chicago, Illinois. Price 10 cents

Crafts with Nature Materials 'by Lois Corke. Appeared
in July, 1942, RECREATION.
Now available in pamphlet form from The Womans
Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York City.
Price 25 cents

Elementary Course in Photography
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York.
Free

426 A YOUNG PEOPLE’S SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA

Leaders' Manual of the Junior Optimist Clubs of Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin. Harold Morgan

The Elation Picture in a World at War, twentieth anni-
versary report of the president, Motion Picture Pro-
ducers and Distributors of America, 28 West 44th
Street, New York City

NationalFitness Council of South Australia, Annual Report
State Bank Building, Pirie Street, Adelaide, South
Australia

Our Neighbor Republics—.4 Selected List of Readable
Books for Young People
U. S. Office of Education, \Vashington, D. C.

Program Suggestions for Club Aleetings by Monte Melamed
Grand Street Settlement, 283 Rivington Street, New
York City. Price 10 cents

Strokes to the Armed Forces

American Red Cross, \Vashington, D. C.

Standards for Day Care of Children of "’orkiug lilotlurs
compiled by the Children's Bureau, U. S. Department
of Labor

Superintendent of Documents, \Vashington, D. C.
Price 10 cents .

Victory Gardens. U. S. Department of Agriculture
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Price 5 cents

 

formality is induced to the degree that sound and
thorough planning precedes the program.

“Recreation is a social necessity of particular and
peculiar value for service men overseas—providing
that recreation is so organized, planned and conducted
as to follow valid lines established for the democratic
management of groups.”

Men and women in the fields of recreation and '

physical education, who believe in recreation as a
social necessity, who by experience and training
are qualified to implement that point of view, fill
the roster of these American Red Cross Recreation
Services. From private and public agencies, set-
tlements and municipal departments, from the
teaching of physical education and the directing of
summer camps, from every walk of recreation life
they have come to Red Cross to weave their phi—
losophies, attitudes and practices into a dynamic
service to the Armed Forces of the United States.

It's Being Done In Nature Recreation

(Continued from page 411)

1757, was appointed to teach “Mathematicks and
Natural PhyIOSOphy" at King's College, now Co-
lumbia University. He is said to be the first man
to hold the position of professor of natural history
in an American college.

Parks. Parks are defense resources of the high-
est order, British sailors have Spent weeks “recre-
ating" in our parks while their ships were being

 
   
      
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
    
 
   
   
 

repaired in our shipyards. Parks should be ke
for recreation, but wartime often leads to exploit-
tion. The Organ Pipe Cactus National Monume
in Arizona was recently thrown open to mini
The area is a superb example of an old desert i
the new world. It should remain a monument t
culture rather than to destruction.

i

Science, “New Worlds in Science: An Antho
ogy,” edited by Harold \Vard. McBride, N ~
York, 1941. 670 pp. $3.50. Writings of thirty
three eminent living scientists. Significant for t
campfire.

A Young People's Symphony Orchest -

(Continued from page 413)

said good—bye until the opening of the schools i
the fall should bring us all together again.

Committee Organization

Throughout the season, from October, 194
through May, 1942, the Young People’s Sy
phony Orchestra Committee had met twice
month in the Town Hall, the Director of Recr
tion being present at most of these meetings. T '
seventeen members were persons interested
music and in the broader education of young pe
ple, and were drawn from \Nest Hartford and t ‘
metropolitan districts of Hartford. A tempor
chairman and secretary had been chosen by
group and subcommittees were organized wh'
facilitated the work to be done. They were titl
Child Personnel, Publicity and Program, Tr
portation, and Finance. The Executive Commi
consisted of the chairman of the whole commi .
and the chairmen of the subcommittees. The
nance Committee never functioned, for the at
at Pearl Harbor broke up our plan to raise a t
year budget in early January 1942. The budg .
the first year was supplied from the funds of L
Department of Recreation of West Hartford f
whose director, Jacob W. Feldman, the commi
and the orchestra had sincere and enthus'
support. Through the season the committee he]
in the transportation of the young people du '
stormy weather, and gave time and careful c
sideration to the needs of this young group and
the support of Peter Page, the conductor. \
John R. Thornton, of the Hartford Courant (
morning daily newspaper in Hartford) wrote
excellent articles descriptive of the orchestra a
committee. Any success is due to the friendly co
Operation of all concerned.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Fun with Folk Tales

By Gertrude Larned Sloane. E. P. Dutton and Company,
Incorporated, New York. $2.00.

SIX PLAYS, each not over twenty minutes long in acting
time, and each with music especially planned for it,
are presented in this volume. All six plays are within
the acting range of children under thirteen years Of age.
“King Thrash Beard,” “The Golden Goose,” “The Sprig
of Rosemary,” and “Rumplestiltskin” are designed for
the use of the older children in the group, while “The
Little Red Hen and the Grain of Wheat” and “The Fox
and the Rabbit” are for the younger children.

Meet Latin America

By Sarah Morrison. Girls’ Friendly Society, U.S.A., 386
Fourth Avenue, New York. $.35.

HIS ATTRACTIVE PACKET, one of the Cue Program

Series, contains seven sections, all designed to ac-
quaint us with our Latin American neighbors. The tour
of discovery arranged takes us to visit lands of different
customs, Spanish rhythms, colorful market places. We
sample their foods, sing their songs, take part in their
fiestas, and learn their history and present problems.
Recreation workers will find many suggestions in this
interesting packet. -

Woodworking Workbook

By Talmage Nichols and Harold L. Stiles. The Manual
Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $.56.

HERE IS A GUIDE for high school students throughout
their courses in woodworking, which in addition to
the directions Offered presents many interesting facts
about woods, tools, and other materials connected with
the project. “Everyone should have a hobby of some
kind,” says the author in his introduction. “Many boys
and men find some branch of woodwork to be a most
absorbing and satisfying activity for filling their leisure
time.”

Creative Crate Craft

By Paul V. .Champion. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $1.50.

ow TO MAKE CREATIVE FURNITURE from little material

other than discarded wooden shipping containers is
the theme of this practical book describing thirty—eight
useful and simple articles 'which have a place in the
average American home. Each design is accompanied by
full directions for construction, a full page detailed work-
ing drawing, a photograph of the finished article, and a
bill of material. Only a few inexpensive tools are needed
to make the articles.

Electrical Things Boys Like to Make

By Sherman R. Cook. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $2.25.

THERE ARE THIRTY-THREE PROJECTS in this book selected
from a collection of nearly two hundred. All those
described can be readily made in a shOp which has the

usual hand metalworking and a few woodworking tools.
NO engine lathe is required. The directions and draw-
ings will permit a beginner to make a flashlight, a toy
motor, a radio set, and other articles. A “how-to-do-it”
section gives many hints on things that are useful to

know not only in making the articles but in household
repair work.

The Bright Idea Book

By Madeline Gray and Robert C. Urban. E. P. Dutton
and Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.

ASED ON THE NBC RADIO PROGRAM, “The Bright Idea

Club,” this book of spare-time activities for young
peOple Offers hundreds of tested and tried bright ideas.
The book is divided into six parts covering hobbies, ways
to make money, magic, sports, training pets, and puzzles.
The volume is profusely illustrated.

Rural America Today

lts Schools and Community Life

By George A. Works and Simon 0. Lesser. The Uni-
versity Of Chicago Press, Chicago. $3.75.

IN THIS NEW BOOK on rural life the problem of rural
schools and community life is discussed in detail and

.from many points of view. In one Chapter the problem

of the schools and rural recreation is discussed, and there
is much of interest to the community worker in a Chapter
on “Local Planning: What Rural Communities Are
Doing to “Improve Their Own Situation.”

America in Action

Dramatists Play Service, Inc., 6 East 39th Street, New
York.

NDER THE TITLE “America in Action,” the Dramatists
U Play Service has issued a series Of one-act plays
for young people dealing with freed-0m and democracy.
Twelve of the plays illustrating American ideals of free-
dom are now available at 30 cents each.

Bicycle Polo

By R. Bennet Forbes and Jack W. Stauffacher. The
Greenwood Press, San Mateo, California. $1.00.

OUT OF THE GAME OF POLO, which for thousands Of
years has been the sports of kings and princes, there
evolved at the turn of the last century a new sport called
Bicycle Polo. It came into being in 1897 when a group

. 0f sportsmen in Milton, Massachusetts, formed the first

Bicycle Polo Club. After eight successful years the
sport was gradually given up as the different players
forsook polo on wheels for polo on ponies and other
sports. About the same time the game became popular in
England, and today there are more than a hundred
Bicycle Polo Clubs in that country representing about
170 teams and more than 1,000 players. Recently there
has been a revival of the sport in the United States, and
there is now a United States Bicycle Polo Association
which has issued rules for the sport. These rules, to-
gether with historical data and chapters on techniques

' ‘427

428 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

and fundamentals appear in the form of this attractive
booklet of which an edition limited to 500 copies has been
published.

Cancion-es Panamericanas.
Songs of the Americas.

Published in collaboration with the Pan American
Union. Silver Burdett Company, New York. $.72.

This attractive collection of songs with music gives
us a musical picture of every country in the \Vestern
Hemisphere. “Just as we learn much about the geogra-
phy, history, and customs of our neighbors by reading,
so we can know more about their way of living and their
human interests by singing their songs.”

Youth in the 000.

By Kenneth Holland and Frank Ernest Hill. Pre-

pared for the American Youth Commission. Ameri-
can Council on Education, \Vashington, D. C. $2.25.

This book contains a fund of information about the
CCC camps—the reasons why boys enrolled, what they
learned, what work they did, what education and training
they received, and how the CCC experience influenced
their lives. The volume is important as a record of the
work of the first Federally supported youth work pro-
gram which had a profound effect on the lives of two
and a half million young men.

Teaching Athletic Skills in Physical Education.

By Henry C. Craine. ,Inor Publishing Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.75.

During the author’s fifteen years of experience in
teaching athletic skills in secondary schools he has col-
lected, improvised, and adapted hundreds of competitive
skills activities. Approximately 215 of these have been
selected for publication in this book as being the most
effective in actual practice. They are organized accord-
ing to the proper teaching plan for each of the eight
sports covered. Part I of the volume deals with the
athletic skills teaching program; Part II with activities.

Non-Government Sources of Information
on National Defense.

U. S. Office of Education, \Vashington, D. C.

This publication, a companion pamphlet to Govern-
ment Source: of Information on National Defense, has
been prepared as a guide to current materials available
from non-government, non-profit agencies relating to the
total defense program. Prepared by the American Li-

brary Association, copies are available from the U. S.
Office of Education.

The New Physical Education.

By Branville B. Johnson. Burgess Publishing Com-
pany, 426 South Sixth Street, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota. $1.60.

This, the second edition of Dr. Johnson's book, is de-
signed to serve as an introduction to the philosophy,
psychology, and pedagogy of modern physical education.
The author states clearly the objectives of a soundly and
wholesomer conceived program of physical education and
presents in a practical way the techniques necessary to
achieve these objectives. Throughout the book physical

education’s contribution to the whole person is made
clear. ‘

Bulletins—How to Make Them More Effective.

By Catherine Emig. Social \Vork Publicity Coun-
cil, 130 East 22nd Street, New York. $.50.

In its latest publication the Social Work Publicity
Council sets up guides for an efficient editorial policy,
tells how to write good copy and how to use it advan-
tageously. It outlines devices for attracting new readers
and for getting the bulletin read.

There are practical angles, too—how to save money on

paper, printing“ and illustrations and at the same time
make the bulletin more attractive.

Stitching, Crocheting, Knitting,
Hooked Rug Making.

By Ella L. Langen-berg. The Holden Publish' .
Company, Springfield, Massachusetts. $1.25. -

Simple processes are outlined in this book designed
schools and recreation groups. There are many illust
tions and diagrams accompanying the text.

   
   
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  

Women for Defense.

By Margaret Culkin Banning. Duell, Sloan an
Pearce, New York. $2.50.

Mrs. Banning, one of our able women leaders, tells \
the tremendous reserve force America has in the milli
of women who are trained or who may be further trai
to help in the war effort. She enumerates the acco
plishments of women in \Vorld “far I and in the peri
from 1917 to 1941, describes their status in the immedia
situation, and tells what women of other countries -
doing to help in the war effort.

Educational Motion Pictures and Libraries.

By Gerald D. McDonald. American Library Assoc'
tion, Chicago. $2.75.

Because the educational motion picture has beco
more and more important, this study, the results of .
investigation conducted by a'committee of visual ed -
tors and librarians, is especially timely. It presents t
findings on existing material on educational film librar'
and makes recommendations for developing more of t
Topics discussed are educational films, their value,
ket, production, and distribution; their place in the s
lic, school, and college library; their importance in .1:
education; and as historical records. Of particular
terest to the recreation leader is the list of educati
film distributors and the instructions on care and pre
vation of film given in the appendix.

Ofiicers and Directors of the Natio

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Rosasr GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARED BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. Lee, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the B
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Buns, Boston, Mass.

Mas. EDWARD W. anLe, Carlisle, Pa.

Mas. ROBERT Woons Buss, \Vashington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.

Mas. \VILLIAM Burrnwos'rn, Moline, Ill.
Homer L. Cosnz'r'r, Portland, Ore.

Mas. ARTHUR G. Cuuuesdacksonville, Fla.
Mes. THOMAS A. EDISON, est Orange, N. J.
Rosen- GAnnrrr, Baltimore, Md.

Rosznr GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
Ausrm E. Gntrrrrns, Seattle, Wash.

Mes. NORMAN HAnowze, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mes. MELVILLx H. HAsszL, Tucson, Ariz.
Mas. CHARLES V. Htcxox Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. JOHN D. JAuesoN, ugar Ilill, N. If.
GusrAvus T. Ktnv, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

Ronnr LAsstrn, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. Lu, Boston, Mass.

0110 T. MALLZIY, Philadelphia, Pa.

\‘VAL'rze A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CAnL E. MILthen, Augusta, Me.

Mas. 0601:: L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

Mes. Sicuuxo Srzen, San Francisco, Calif.
Mes. A1125 W. WAnswoertt, Washington, D. C.
J. C. ALSH New York, N. Y.

Funnier M. WAnuso, New York, N. Y.
£01m G. \VINAN'r, Concord, N. H.

TANLEY Wooownn, Washington, D. C.

