Twelve Things to Be Remembered by
Recreation Leaders in Wartime*

1. There is need in these war times that our homes and our municipal recreation centers should have
a vital spiritual influence, even though the word religion be not mentioned.

2. We are moving into a period when all men everywhere must be concerned about what takes
place on any part of the earth's surface. Our neighborhood recreation centers—many of them
with persons of varying nationalities represented—ought to carry something of the Spirit of
world citizenship.

3. For many years the emphasis has been upon rights under our system of government. Now we
may well have in our recreation centers an emphasis on responsibilities even though we try

to see that such responsibilities are carried lightly and joyously. Neighborhood service is in
itself an important form of recreation.

4. Never before has there been need for greater effort on the part of parents and older people to
be understanding with reference to the problems of youth and to try in particular to make sure
that boy meets girl in the right kind of atmosphere.

5. With the world reduced in size the white race has now become the minority race. There is need
that the minority race should think actively in terms of full justice to persons of all other colors.

6. Never before has there been greater need that all churches, all neighborhood groups, all recrea-
tion centers should work together in cooperation.

7. The neighborhood recreation centers of America present an almost unequalled opportunity for
labor and management to work together on a community basis.

8. The mental strain of war is very great. Recreation can do much to back up religion in keeping
men and women mentally and spiritually strong for war tasks and for meeting all that comes
of good and bad news. This is a very real problem as lists from the battlefields come through.
Our families must face heavy losses with as little flinching as may be. As time goes on there
will be weariness on the production front. A first essential is to maintain the inner spirit of the
entire American people in the days that are immediately before us.

9. In the new era city recreation centers and rural recreation organizations ought to be thinking of
each other and trying to build up a stronger tie between city and open country.

0. Never before has there been greater need that each individual should have roots in his neighbor-
hood and in his community, that he should feel a sense of security, that he should be able to
go out to face the wide world with confidence, that he should feel that living can be joyous and
free and thoroughly worth while.

1. Recreation and recreation leaders have a vital part to play'in Winning the War, in holding on
until victory is complete. Here the community centers of the United States have an outstand-

ing contribution to'make.

2. No one questions the need of recreation in these times. Recreation has a priority rating. The
declared purposes of the municipal recreation systems indicate indispensable programs. What,
does need to be proved is that recreation systems and recreation workers can not only rise to
the emergency but maintain steadily throughout the war period a program that constantly adapts

to the current need.

* These war recreation principles represent the thinking of many
individuals and groups. The hope is that as here presented they
may serve as a basis for thinking and discussion 1n many localities.

Howard Braucher

 

DECEMBER I942

485

 

December

  

,. . , . .1-
Courresy Uearborn, Mulligan, RCCI’C’GMOH Depar

A DETAIL FROM DEARBORN'S NATIVITY

A Christmas Story Comes to Life

I H Y THE CH IMES
w RANG” is a well
loved Christmas
story which is readily adapt-
tble to simple dramatiza-
ion. The Children’s Thea-
re Arts Center at Adelphi College in Garden City,
'ew York. worked out an interesting and effec-
ive production of this famous story last year. With
no evergreen trees, homemade costumes, bits of
'elvet and tinsel, and a few properties, the children
ransported their Christmas audience back across
he centuries into the storied wonder of the great
‘athedral.

The hrst scene of their play-adaptation of the
‘ory is set in a village square where villagers
nter and cross the stage after dawdling a bit.
uring this scene the people on stage chat with
‘villagers” seated the front rows of the audience.
11 their conversation they speak of the great
hurch and the chimes which ring at midnight on
~ hristnias—and then only if someone lays a
“orthy offering on the altar.

In the short second scene Pedro and Little
rother are seen sneaking off to the church for
.ie wonderful Christmas service. Later, during

Grace S’ranis’rree’r, director of the Adelphi
College Children's Thea’rre Arts Center.
describes in ’rhis ar’ricle the simple and
effective s’rage production of a well loved
children's classic—"Why ’rhe Chimes Rang.”

the third scene, the children
find an old woman half-hid-
den in the snow, and Pedro
stays behind to care for her
while Little Brother goes on
alone to the church.

At this point the scene blacks out and when the
lights come on again the audience find themselves
in the 01d cathedral. This is especially effective if
the audience has been seated as nearly as possible
to suggest a church with a wide center aisle

The stage is lighted softly for the first three
scenes and the action is spotlighted in the last
scene. If no spotlight is available to illuminate the
action which takes place in the body of the audi-
torium in Scene Four, the whole room may be
lighted to give the effect of candlelight.

The stage is set with the altar at the center back.
A plain black cloth panel hangs at the back of ,the
table which is elevated on a platform and serves
as an altar. The table may be covered with lace
or cheesecloth, and a central panel of purple 0r
gold hangs to the floor. The altar may be set with
simple or elaborate candelabra.

For the Iirst three scenes the altar is hidden by
two evergreen trees in light stands. A screen

 

488 A CHRISTMAS STORY COMES TO LIFE

would be equally effective for this. For Scene One,
two or three benches and boxes are placed in the
center of the stage to suggest the village square.
These are removed by two villagers at the end of
the scene.

At the beginning of the fourth scene two altar
boys enter right and left and ceremoniously move
the trees which have been screening the altar.
They place the trees at the right and left of the
altar, light the candles, and then kneel quietly on
either side.

The audience may sing “O Come All Ye Faith-
ful” as the priest comes down the aisle at the be-
ginning of the fourth scene. He kneels at the altar
until the hymn is ended, then turns and comes
down to the front of the stage where he extends
an invitation to the congregation to present their
gifts. This is done in pantomime. At this point,
peasants and nobles come down the aisle in little
groups. Each noble lord and lady is attended by
pages or ladies-in-waiting who carry the precious
gifts. For more details on this stage busi-
ness see the original story, available in any
public library.

As each group gives the gifts to the
priest he raises them high before placing
them on the altar. A space has been left
below the stage where players take their
places after they have presented their of-
ferings. Peasants do not appear to expect
the chimes to ring for their gifts, but all wait ex-
pectantly each time a lord or lady comes forward.

The king comes last of all, as the congregation
of peasants and nobles bow before him. There is a
dramatic moment when he takes the crown from
his head and gives it to the priest. You can hear
gasps from the people. The organ which has been
playing softly through the scene stops for one
strained moment of silence, then resumes as the
king turns and goes out through the disappointed
audience.

The priest comes down to the front and raises
his hands in blessing. At this minute Little
Brother, who has been hiding shyly behind a tree
at the side, slips up to the altar and puts Pedro’s
penny there. The congregation is kneeling, heads
bowed. As Little Brother lays his brother’s of-
fering on the altar, the chimes come loud and clear
through the organ music. People stand in surprise,
staring about them. Little Brother, who has been
running out through the audience, stops to look
up and then kneels in the middle of the aisle.
The priest and the people drop to their knees.

UNITED
STATES

 

   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
   

The chimes fade away and the organ swells
Little Brother continues down the aisle, follow
by the people, priest, and altar boys.

Hints on Production

Where there is no organ and chimes, record
music may be quite as effective for the last scen
The best effect will be produced, however, if tx
victrolas can be used.

Children who play the.peasants will enjoy c
ating their own characters and deciding on th
gifts. One of the best performances in the origi
production was by a little girl who had no line
speak, but who played the role of an old lady. F
her gift she chose a piece of handmade lace.

The young actors and actresses can also :
drafted to help make their own costumes. T
peasant girls will wear colored skirts and wh'
blouses, aprons, shawls, and babushkas. The bo
wear dark long-sleeved sweaters under straig
tunics which hang from the shoulder to the kn
and are belted about the waist. Lo
brown or black stockings will cover th
legs, and their shorts are completely co
ered by the tunics. Woolen caps may .
worn, or parkas and hoods which cov
head and shoulders.

The pages have tunics like the peasa
boys, straight material with a hole cut f
the heads. They may wear light—color
long-sleeved shirts underneath the tunics, 10
white stockings, and berets made of the same
terial as the tunics. Capes should be cut so t
they hang to their waists.

Dresses for the noblewomen are cut kimo
style with long sleeves, either tight or full at t
wrist. Their sashes are made of rope plaited fr
strips of colored materials. Large scarves of c
ored cheesecloth are pinned to their hair and fl
down their backs.

The noblemen have long coats cut kimona st
and open down the front. The coats are cut v
full and have wide sleeves. Figured duvetyn
bright colors is the most satisfactory material .
these. They may wear low crowns cut from gil
cardboard or old felt hats with large brims a
feathers.

For each altar boy, cut a plain narrow wh
skirt. Over this he will wear a short robe mm
from a square of soft material from the center a
which a hole has been cut for the head. This ro
should be long enough to fall to the elbows an

(Continued on page 531 )

g
i
l

Christmas Games

Dress 'up your old games
with a Christmas theme

for holiday parfy fun

l a carefully planned roster of games so that
the program of every group in your com-
munity center will include some Christmas games.
.Handcraft, drama, music, and dance groups will

be eager to cooperate if you give them some gen-

eral suggestions such as these:
(I) Make bean bags in the shape of Christmas

ONE OF THE BEST “lead ups” to Christmas is

trees.

(2) Use a Santa mask for games requiring a
blindfold.

(3) Use red and green balloons for balloon
games.

(4) Substitute Christmas symbols for regular
game equipment.

(5) Use Christmas music for all your games.

You will find many new games in current maga-
zines and bulletins, but children will always enjoy
playing their favorite old games that have been
dressed up with a Christmas touch. Almost any
group game may be fitted to the occasion, or if
nothing else, Christmas favors may be matched to
find partners.

Here are several old games adapted to the holi-
day spirit. You may want to include them in your
game program!

Card Games

Christmas playing cards are easy to make, add-
ing a festive note to any party. Almost any match-
ing card game, such as Pit, Old Maid, or Authors,
may be played according to its regular rules with
these holiday cards. This type game calls for
four cards of each number
and an odd card for a joker.

To make the cards of each
suit exactly alike, trace the
design for the suit on light-
weight paper or on regular
tracing paper and then rub
the underside of this sheet
with a soft lead pencil. This
undersurface should be well

 

blacked. Hold the tracing in place on top of the
card and once again trace around the lines of the
picture. The pressure of your pencil along these
lines will cause the black lead on the underside to
be transferred to the card, and thus your design
will be reproduced in fairly clear outline. Color
the cards with crayons or water color paints.

Cut the cards from heavy bristol board if you
wish to use them Christmas after Christmas. If
the game is to be played only once at a party, draw
and color the pictures on white paper and paste

them on old playing cards.
The cards will need a number or letter in each

corner to be used as counters. This will be deter—
mined by the games you wish to play.

Christmas Dominoes

The dominoes illustrated here may be made
from' any soft white wood one-half inch thick;
basswood is the best, however, if you can obtain it

in your neighborhood. Since this type of wood is
fine grained and light in color, the surface can be

painted very easily.
Cut out the dominoes with a jig saw, smooth the
' edges, and sand the surfaces

with fine sandpaper or steel
wool. Either paint your own
Christmas symbols or paste
on small Christmas seals to
substitute for the dots usually
found on dominoes.

Any paint may be used,
but oil paints give the best re-
sults. After the paint has
thoroughly dried for twenty-
four hours or more, cover the
entire surface with shellac or

(Continued on page 534)
489

 
 
  

 

From a Polish Christmas card

trees was but a tiny lirling, everyone in Poland

waited impatiently for the fourth of December
——St. Barbara’s Day. For if it rained on that day,
there would be ice at Christmas; and if St. Bar-
bara’s Day came with ice, Christmas would come
with rain. That is what the old people said—and
then, even as now, the old people were very. very
Wise.

But it was for St. Nicholas’ Day, on the sixth
of December, that the children waited, half eager,
half fearful. That was the fated .day when the
good Bishop Nicholas, dressed in his ancient robes
and duly attended by an angel and a red-tongued
devil, went from house to house to examine the
children. All through the day he would listen as
they recited their prayers and their hard-learned
catechism lessons. For the good children he had
small presents and the promise of more at Christ-
mas, but for those who had behaved badly there
were only sharp words of warning.

As the time of Christmas
drew near there were many
exciting hours of planning.
The children studied hard at
their prayers and waited im-
patiently ,for the day when
the beautiful white-robed

490

I N THE OLD DAYS when even the king of the pine

_ boys brought out the puppet-theaters known

"We in the United States are amazingly
rich in the elements from which to weave
a culture. We have the best of man's
past on which to draw, brought to us by
our native folk and folk from all parts

of the world."—Franklin D. Roosevelt.

  
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
      
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   

Feast ot the Star

In homes and churches at Christmas
time man foreign-born people try
to keep alive the old world customs
and to bring to their American chil-
dren the beauty of a rich heritage.

Good Star would bring them their gifts. But the
knew well that she would not come alone, for t
always unwelcome Father Star came with he
Then they must kneel by the tree and tell all th'
prayers and sing an old lullaby while he decid
who deserved praise and who deserved blame.

But now, before the holy day came, the olde ‘

“Jaselki.” While the wide-eyed children watch
breathlessly, they set up on each stage the line
carved Christmas figures depicting scenes from t
life of Christ. Sometimes it would be the mang
scene on the hillside at Bethlehem, or again tl
frightening story of Herod and the murdered bo
children. These brightly lighted box theaters we
carried by the boys of the village as they wander
from house to house singing the old carols.

Often the carollers brought with them shini
star-shaped lanterns carried high on wooden pol
This is an old European custom which has coa
down through the ages as a special tribute to t
Christmas Star.

Sometimes at nightfall the little theaters wo
be lined up around the market places_ of gr
cities, and pe0ple would come long distances i
watch the puppet shows as they cast their jewel
lights into the darkness of the city square.

These were reverent days, just before Chri
mas—days filled with fasting and planning. Hou
must be cleaned and polished, and the great f ’
made ready, for even in the poorest homes th
was the Feast of the Star Supper on Clll’iStl
Eve. This was the time, too, when the monks .
priests went the rounds of the village, bringi
the peOple their peace wafe
made of flour and water :11
stamped with holy emblem
They had been blessed by t -
priest and were carefully p
away to be saved for the Sta
Feast.

FEAST OF THE STAR 491

At last when the waiting was done, the day be-
fore Christmas arrived. Through the long mom-
ing and afternoon each family waited to break
their fast together at evening. The table was ready
and waiting. First on the bare board had been
laid the hay or straw, symbolic of the Christ
Child’s manger in the long-ago Bethlehem. Then
came the white cloth and the gleaming dishes.

All through the day the mother and daughters

had worked, preparing the food, cooking the well-
loved dishes which had been part of the Christ—
mas feast in Poland long before even the oldest
grandfather was born. There would be lish soup
or mushroom soup in deep bowls, fish with stewed
prunes, dishes of cabbage and mushrooms and
chopped meat, animal-shaped cookies, and a special
dessert of noodles, honey, and poppy seed.
‘ But now it was evening and the family gathered
for dinner. Together they waited until out of the
l dark sky came the light of the first star. Then in
a solemn procession they went
in to the Star Supper. All
stood with bowed heads while
the head of the family took
up the precious peace wafer
which they had saved care-
fully. Holding it in his hands,
he bade them all to keep
peace with God and man.
Then the family broke the
wafer among them, beginning
with the eldest member and
all exchanged blessings for the new year. Later a
wafer was broken with the servants and some-
times it was even given to the farm animals.

When everyone settled down to the feast there
was always an even number of persons at the table.
If an expected guest had failed to arrive and by
his absence broke the number, they would invite
some passing stranger to join them. For that was
an old custom and one to be well observed.

In many homes one empty chair was left at the
table. For there is a legend that on the night of
His birth the Christ Child wanders the earth
seeking a welcome in the homes of men. And in
these Polish homes there was always a place wait-
ing for Him.

After the feasting came the Festival of the Star,
known as the Pasterka or Shepherd’s Mass. As
the hour drew near to midnight, the people dressed
in their best and set out,for church to usher in
Christmas Day at a holy service. The churches
were brightly lighted and decorated and each had

"Nor can that endure which has not its
foundation upon love. For love alone
diminishes notI but shines with its own
light: makes an end of discord. softens
the tires of hate, restores peace in the
world, brings together the sundered, re-
dresses wrongs, aids all and iniures none;
and who so invokes its aid will tind peace
and safety, and have no fear of future
ill."—From Act of Horodio, inspired

by Queen Judwiga of Poland. |4|3 A.D.

its manger or crib which was never removed till
January sixth, the Day of the Three Kings, or as
it is often called, Twelfth Night.

On this last day of the holidays the priest of the
parish went from house to house blessing the
homes of the peOple with holy water. Above the
doorways he wrote the initials of the Three Kings,
a ceremony which carried great blessing for the
New Year. And thus came the end of Christmas,
as the old wise ones remember well.

Some of these Christmas customs have been
lost in the shuffle of years, but many of them were
kept by father and son and grandson so that they
are still a part of the Polish Christmas. And
though Poland itself is darkened again by war, the
beautifully reverent symbolism of the Feast of the
Star will be kept alive this year wherever a son or
daughter of Poland waits on Christmas Eve for
the light of the first star.

\Nith every country cele—
brating Christmas in its own
way, the holiday is rich in
stories and legends which
offer many possibilities for
original programs and activi-
ties. Folk festivals and cus-
toms provide excellent source
material for plays, pageants,
parties, games, or crafts.

The National Recreation
Association makes available
the following publications on Christmas customs
throughout the world: “The Christmas Book,” a
booklet of program suggestions which include
brief items on Christmas folkways in many lands,
50 cents; “Christmas Customs and Legends
Around the World,” a pantomime which may be
used as it is, or serve as a pattern for a longer
program, 10 cents; “Christmas Music,” a bibli-
ography listing many sources of carols which are
sung in many countries, 5 cents; “Christmas
Kaleidoscope,” a festival for those who have a
large number of children trained in the various
national dances and who wish to use them in a

program with continuity, Free.

The Association also has available free of charge
“A Few References on Christmas Customs and
Legends Around the \Vorld,” a newly revised
bibliography of books and mimeographed material
from a selected list of publishers. More than
twenty publications are listed.

Each Candle Lights Anew!

"Make and Mend" Column

HERE IS SOMETHING heartwarming and friendly
Tahout even the smallest candle, especially at
holiday time. And those who have tried their
hands at the well-loved art of candlemaking know
that homemade candles radiate their own quaint
kind of dignity as they stand poised on table or
mantle.
Fortunately candlemaking has never lapsed into
a lost art, and today you and your children can
spend an afternoon dipping
or pouring them by hand
just as colonial and pioneer
women did in other cen-
turies. Here are three sim-
ple methods of making new
candles from waste candle
ends which are too short
for burning.

Candle Dipping

Children will enjoy the
novelty of candle dipping,
so get them together in
kitchen or club and give
each a wick and a stick.
Since wicking purchased in a hardware store is too
thick for dipping purposes, separate the strands
down to two or three for each wick. Cut them
about six inches longer than the actual length of
your finished candle, each child tying one end of
his wick to a small rod or stick. A second wick
may be added to the stick for dipping two candles
at a time if the jar has a wide mouth.

Meanwhile place the candle ends in a tall pickle
jar and melt them down by setting the jar in a pan
of boiling water; during the actual dipping keep
the jar in the hot water. Remove the old wicks
and stir the melted tallow thoroughly if you wish
the colors blended. Since most candles are colored
merely on the surface, the resultant blend will be
pastel shades diffused into the basic white of the
candles. If you want a special color, add oil paint
to the tallow.

Have the children form a line so they can move
in a circle, dipping their candles once each time
around. They simply hold the sticks over the jar
and lower the wicks into the tallow for a moment.

492

Figure l

   
  
  
  

  
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
   

(See figure I.) -The wax should dry on the wt
somewhat between each dip.

Continue dipping in this manner until a
sized candle is formed, requiring perhaps t\ ‘
or thirty dips. Cut the wick half an inch from
top of the wax and your candle is ready for us

Bottle Candles

Bottle candles are made over a long period
time, as candle ends turn up here .

there. Any bottle of an interes

shape will serve the purpose.

Hang the wick from a stick 1
across the top of the bottle, and let
hang down to the bottom of the b
tle where it is weight
with a small heavy obje
(See figure 2.)

As you accumulate c
dle ends, melt them do
and pour the liquid tall
into the bottle with the -
of a funnel. Let the tall
harden after each additi
The wick will extend
through the middle wh
it hangs in place.

When the bottle is fill
place it in a pan of I
water until the candle
comes free of the sides. Then gently break '
bottle and remove the molded candle. Smooth -.
the edges of the wax and remove the weight f .
the bottom.

Similar to bottle candles are those made
square cardboard milk containers. Follow the s
procedure except in hanging the wick. Threa
through a puncture in the bottom of the carton t
hold it taut by a knot at the bottom instead 0
weight. The wick is tied to a stick across the '
as before. The cardboard may be slit down
sides when the finished candle is ready for remox

The Tin Can Variety

After the lid is removed from a small tin ca
puncture a small hole in the bottom and threa

(Continued on page 536)

 

The Barre Junior Symphony Orchestra

By JOSEPH BRISLIN and D. C. JARVIS, M.D.

Municipal Auditorium. A hush falls over the

IT IS FOUR o’CLOCK Sunday afternoon in the Barre
audience as the conductor raises his baton and

appearance of the orchestra was at a Christmas
program at this church.
The orchestra continued to grow, and at the end

the strains of “God Bless America” fiow through
the huge auditorium. Music is being played by the
Barre Junior' Symphony, an organization of sixty
to seventy members, under the direction of Dr.
D. C. Jarvis.

The Barre Junior Symphony had its modest be-
ginning some seventeen years ago in the home of
Dr. Jarvis. Sylvia Jarvis, a high school student,
decided to learn to play the flute so that she might
join the local high school orchestra. In order to
make playing the flute more interesting, Dr. Jarvis

of five years it had increased to a size that war—
ranted giving a public concert on Sunday after-
noon once each month. With the building of the
municipal auditorium and its opening as a recrea—
tion center, Dr, Jarvis and Joseph Brislin con-
ceived the idea of giving bi-monthly concerts from
the stage of the auditorium.

The following program was given on October
18, 1942: -
PART I
(a) Romaine March . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Charles Gounod

invited several of her friends
at school to come to the
house and form a home or-
chestra. This home orchestra
proved popular and it was not
long before there was a mem—
bership of fifteen, With more
young people wishing to join.
Due to the size of the orches-
tra, it was necessary to move
from the home to a room
secured at the Baptist Church
for practice. The first public

Mr. Brislin is Director of Recreation in
Barre, Vermont. Dr. Jarvis is an eye. ear.
nose and throat specialist with a wide
practice in Barre and vicinity. The Junior
Symphony Ochestra is Dr. Jarvis's hobby.
and in spite of his busy time he has found
time to build up and maintain a musi-
cal organization which has meant much
in the lives of five hundred young people
and their parentsI and has contributed
greatly to the enioyment of the lovers of
good music who attend the bi-monthly
concerts held in the municipal auditorium.

(b) On the Beautiful Blue Danube

Johann Strauss

Barre Junior Symphony Orchestra
PART II

(a) Ah! So Pure . . . . . . ..Flotow
Patricia Bartlett, saxophone, with

Eloise McCarty at the piano
(b) Serenade d’Amour. .von 3101:

Rita Keefe and Katherine Dubie,
flutes; Eloise McCarty at

the piano
PART III

Lustspiel Overture . . .Keler-Bela
Barre Junior Symphony Orchestra

(Continued on. page 530)
493

f

A Chinese New Year's Party

By MARY HITCHINGS

ll OUR INSIGNIFICANT ser-
Y vants, Smith John Mr.
and M rs., beg the privi-
lege of your exalted presence
at their humble home on De-
cember 31, 1942, from nine
to twelve-thirty o’clock to welcome the glorious
New Year. Please to accept their most unworthy
petition.” '

So might read your invitations to a Chinese
New Year’s party. In these times, China’s tradi-
tional festivities are especially appropriate, even
though you cannot possibly
crowd in all the family merry-
making that used to take place
during their three-day to two-
week celebration which comes
in our February.

In this ancient land of al-
mond-eyed, black-haired peo-
ple where nuts and watermelon
seeds are delicacies, New Year
revelry used to be equivalent
to our Fourth of July, Thanks-
giving, Christmas, and birth-
day parties all rolled into one.
To the accompaniment of ex-
ploding firecrackers, everyone
feasted, gave presents and
cards, made ceremonial visits
to friends, and paid family
debts. And on this universal

You are cordially invited to malte merry
on New Year's Eve as they did in the

ancient February festival of old China

 

 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
     
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

fun of celebrating 1943’s ar-
rival in Chinese fashion.
may be a small party for
few friends or a large affdr
but make it a real fami
party! Include the childre
and invite their friends, too. They will delight '
the quaint games and customs of their Chin
cousins.
Setting for Humble Entertainment of
Esteemed Visitors

New Year’s follows so fast on the heels 0
Christmas that you will wan
to keep decorations for you
party simple. Color, and lot
of it, is in order. Be libera
with red. In old China it sym-
bolized joy and was reputed to
drive away evil spirits. A re
placard lettered with a gilt
“FU” placed over your doc
will be a lucky sign that sup-
posedly brings good fortune to
your home. Pin red papc
dragons with gilt scales, eyes.
and nostrils to drapes and cur-
tain pulls. The children wil
have fun cutting and painti
them in a variety of poses
They will find models in th'
storybooks or they can trac
the figure on page 495. Th

(
l

  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   

This easy-to-malte red and gold
invitation reads from back to
front and from top to bottom

birthday old and young became
a year older. At this time, too,
ancestors were honored by
special rites and particular
courtesies shown to the old and venerable people.

So superstitious were the Chinese that great
care was taken to guard the family’s luck. Any
offense to the gods was likely to bring misfortune
during the coming year. Each house had its own
particular superstitions which were always ob-
served by visitors who- wished to avoid bringing
bad luck to themselves or their friends. Although
stores were closed for the first time during the
year, bright street and shop window decorations,
fireworks, and lantern parades added gaiety to the
occasion.

This year, let us move up the date and have the

494

dragon, symbol of the empero
played an important part i
China’s New Year observanc

Lanterns hung over door
ways and from light fixtures or used as lamp-
shades will make a gala welcome for your guests.
If time is not too short, make your own lantern
from wrapping paper and wire or from painte
cereal boxes with cut-out designs.* Decorate them
with flowers, dragons, and temples. Use small
flashlights or candles to light them, taking every
precaution against fire, of course. These lantern
add an authentic touch since one entire day of the

Chinese holiday season was devoted to the Feast
of the Lanterns.

' Lantern: for Christmas Carallcrs, Lois K. Hartzell. MB 1083;
Laan Parade. MB 1035. Free from the National Recreation
Association.

 

 

Red candles, incense, and bright
of Chrysanthemums or
ahlias will complete the transfor-
ation of your living room.

Now the scene is set and your
ests are at the door. If you have
ade it a costume party the ladies
ill walk with tiny mincing steps in
eir gay silk jackets and trousers
r long slit dresses. Jeweled pins or
owers in their sleek hair will glint
n the lantern light and each will
arry a fan and parasol. Queues

  
 
    
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 

nd skirts of the men and boys, who also carry
ans. Perhaps they will even have a long, narrow
hield attached to each finger to protect their pre-
umably long nails. The men and boys, of course,
ill enter first because of their “superiority” to
omen. The children (with a little coaching) will
reet their elders by bowing almost to the floor,
hile the adults shake hands ceremoniously—with
hemselves. As host and hostess, welcome your
steemed guests with many apologies for your poor
ome and eternal gratitude that they should deign
0 cross its humble threshold. When you introduce
ach one, last name first, even the most reserved
f your friends will lose his “oriental” solemnity.

nworthy Pastimes for Most Revered Guests

Pitching cards in a hat or box is a game of skill
hat closely resembles an old Chinese gambling
ame which consisted of tossing coins into small
les dug in the ground. Two decks of cards and
o hats or boxes will amuse the first arrivals in—
efinitely. After everyone has had practice shots
0 acquire the knack of the game, have a contest
(1 award a prize to the highest adult scorer and
nother to the child winner.

Next on the program is Resolution Charades,

ortunes with bamboo sticks. Pass a circular box
_such as an oatmeal container) painted red and
filled with colored cellophane straws in each one
of which you have placed a tightly rolled New
Year’s resolution written on thin paper. Be sure
there are at least as many
straws as guests. Put into
green straws appropriate
'esolutions for the children
Lnd have them draw from
:hese. When all have a straw,
he first person who drew acts

  
  
 

hould flop against the colorful kimono—like blouses

n adaptation of the old Chinese custom of telling -

"ln ChinaI tea is considered an ideal
New Year's gift and so one often sees
the people carrying boxes of it which
they later give away. This is supposed
to invite prosperity
and the receiver."—Louise Price Bell.

both to the giver

.A CHINESE NElV YEAR’S PARTY 495

Red paper and gilt paint
for this festive dragon!

out his resolution, for which you must be prepared
to provide properties. At the conclusion of his
pantomime, he will of course apologize profusely
for his miserable performance while the rest try
to guess his resolution. You might award a fan
or chopsticks for the best dramatization. ,

In writing the resolutions try to pick out humor-—
ous weaknesses. Some of them might read: “I
most profoundly resolve to do setting up exercises
each morning thereby stretching my weak frame”;
“No more despicable smoking for this insignifi-
cant creature”; and “This lowly No. I boy re-
solves.to study his mathematics one hour every
evening.”

If the children are too young for Charades, they
will enjoy playing jackstones. Be sure to provide
them with ‘six small stones besides a regulation set,
since they will want to try playing Chinese style.
They use one pebble as a ball and, after success-
fully picking up the five stones as we do, throw
the pebbles in the air catching as many as possible
on the backlof the hand. Score is kept according
to the number caught in this way. Boys especially
will like Chinese Get-up. Two children sit on the
floor back to back and lock arms. The first to get

to his feet without unlinking arms is the winner.

Another game the Chinese delight in is Blind

Man’s Buff. Children and adults can have great
fun playing this old favorite which is familiar to
young and old.

Mah-jong with its Dragons,
South Wind, and Pung is
next on the program for
adults. If you have no set and
cannot borrow one, Insignifi-
cant Michigan or Despicable
Bridge can be substituted,

496 A CHINESE NEH" YEAR’S PARTY

since cards were played centuries ago in old China
by the mandarins at the emperor’s court.

Wei-Gyi

\Vhile the adults are playing Mah-jong or
Bridge, the children could progress from one table
game to another. Equipment for dominoes, Chi-
nese checkers, and \Vei-Gyi may be set up on three
tables.

The children will like \Vei-Gyi, a Chinese game
similar to our checkers. Supply the two players
with a checkerboard (or squared piece of paper)
and twenty-four men apiece. Use matches, chips,
reversed dominoes or anagrams for additional
men. For example, one player could have red
checkers and reversed anagrams for his men; the
other, black checkers and reversed dominoes. Have
the players fill their first three rows of black and
red squares with men.

The object of the game is for one player to at—
tempt to surround one of his opponent’s men, or
more than one, if possible, by moving his men one
at a time in any direction on the board. When a
man is surrounded, it must be removed. The
player having the most men left in play wins. Keep
score by crediting the winner with as many points
as he has men remaining on the board.

Every child should have a chance to play every
game, the high scorer of each one receiving one
point. Award table prizes and a grand prize for
the one having the highest number of points.

"Having a Good Time" is the title of this
old Chinese print of young children at play

 

  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
    
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
 

If the children are restless, have them go t
romp room because their next game requires 5
Catching the Dragon’s Tail is a game simila
our Crack the Whip. The children place .
hands on each other’s shoulders forming a
The first child is the dragon’s head, the last =
its tail, \Vith the line intact, the dragon’s 1
attempts to catch its tail. When the first child
ceeds, he goes to the end of the line as the
and so on.

Humble Nourishment for Superior Gue

Children have a way of getting hungry so
than grown-ups, so do not delay refreshments
long. Serve your revered guests Chinese tea,
is not too precious in these days of ration'
Otherwise, substitute the South American
maté, or an herb tea such as sassafras. On .
special occasion even the children might be allo -
to have weak tea well diluted with milk. Chi
almond cakes (obtainable from a Chinese res
rant or bake shop) or nut cookies could be ser
with the tea. Pass candied fruits and nuts wh'
are also Chinese delicacies. The children
relish mandarin oranges (tangerines) and a b
of them on your refreshment table will add a n
of color.

Should you prefer to serve a late supper, p
cede the above with a first course of Chow M
and rice. To make Chow Mein, boil noodles u
tender, the_n fry them. Canned fried noodles .
satisfactory and need only be heated. Fry se
rately mushrooms, shrimps, and meat cut i
small pieces. Either c
meat or several kinds
be used. Mix these \
the noodles and 5m
with Soy sauce.

Much hilarity will
sult if chopsticks are
only table implements
lowed. Whittle and sa
paper small sticks if '-
cannot procure any ch
sticks ready-made. Tl
who must resort to a f
in order to eat should

a forfeit suggested by
others.

At refreshment time .
riddles, complete quo
tions, and play wo

(Continued on page 532)

 

Courtesy Burlingame, California, Recreation Department

"Dear J09"

It's tun to dance when you know how

EAR JOE :

Today surely has been busy! My feet hurt

from dancing with the seventh graders in our

old Junior High and my ears ring with the music

we’ve used for teaching that well known box and
two-step.

Have I told you about our program with the
seventh grades in all Junior Highs throughout the
city, Joe? It’s a lot of fun and I do wish we’d had
it when we were in school. Remember at parties
how the boys used to sit on one side of the gym
and the girls on the other ’cause nobody knew how
to dance? Then the boys would start to “cut-up”
and go through all that “horse play” because you
were embarrassed and didn’t know how to act?
Of course, none of us had sense enough to agree
to having anything but a dance,
and somehow we’d always ex—
pect a miracle and just know we
could dance the next time.

You know though, Joe, it’s
almost the same situation in

\

In this Ietter-to-a-sololierl June
Wilson, Director of Social Recrea-
tion in Greensboro. North Carolina.
describes a teaching campaign for
dance-conscious seventh graders.

high schools now and that’s why I’m determined
to do something about it. When anyone, parents
included, mentions teaching boys and girls to dance
(boys especially) the answer is always the same.
I remember your “Aw phooey, football’s my
game!” and the strange thing is that all the time
they’re wishing they could dance and be popular.
So here’s the problem, I said to myself—a high
school full 'of boys and girls who can’t dance and
are determined in their minds that there isn’t any-
way to have fun but dancing. The way to solve
the problem, I reasoned, was to start back in the
seventh grade and teach them, so they could have
fun and be at ease in co—recreation groups. Then
the situation in the high school is solved the easy
way, because in a couple of years there won’t be
anyone in high school who hasn’t
been taught to dance and how to
act around their boy or girl
friends. Simple, isn’t it, Joe?
So after contacting the school
(Continued on page 532)

497

Don't make him iitterbug!

ll ow DID YOU GET THE GIRLS ?” That’s the
hrst question people ask about the Military
Maids of Columbus, Georgia, who were
organized to help entertain the soldiers of near-by
Fort Benning when they come to town.

\Ve found the girls by going out after them.
Our workers interviewed heads of department
stores and live and ten cent stores; we went into
oliices where there were numbers of young women
employed, manufacturing plants, the telephone
exchange, sororities, clubs, teachers and nurses
groups. In fact, we went into any reliable place
where we could secure attractive girls who would
measure up to the standards we had set.

Actually, it was no easy task to recruit girls in
a city which had come to distinguish sharply in
peacetime between the officers and enlisted men at
the Fort. We had to break down the prejudice
against service men slowly and painfully and to
persuade parents and girls
that these boys were from
homes such as their own—
that they were homesick and
lonely and that it was our ""9 of socia|
privilege as well as our duty

498

 

As chairman of the Women's and Girls'
Committee of the Columbus Defense
Council. Miss Wood is in the front
activity for service
men stationed near this Georgia city.

   
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  

Military Maids

on the
Home Front

By EDWINA W001)

Recreation Superintendent
Columbus, Georgia

to dance with them, go to church parti
with them, and entertain them in 0
homes.

Before the war, Fort Benning with i
97,000 acres had been the largest Infantr
Training School in the world. But wh
the present war began, the personnel 0
the Army was so greatly increased th
tented cities grew up overnight whe
only forests had been. Instead of the regula
soldiers we were accustomed to, thousands a
young men from all walks of life were coming t
this Post.

One of the first requests that came to the cit'
zens of Columbus from the commandant was
provide dances where the men might meet tl
right kind of girls under favorable circumstance
The Department of Recreation, early in Dece
ber, 1940, was called upon for this service, and t
Chief Morale Officer from Benning was nam
liaison man. Through the cooperation of the 10c
and military authorities, a large hall was secur
for two evenings a week. The dances Were to t
sponsored exclusively by certain companies s
battalions. The men themselves provided decor
tions, music, and refreshments while the OHici
Hostess provided chaperons and girls.

The superintendent of recreation agreed to hel
secure girls for the dances and one of the l -
women was named Offici
Hostess. All of this antedat
the USO in the days befo
any decision had been mad
as to how the various organi
zations would function durin

the war. Though the number
of Military Maids was exceed-
ineg small at first it increased
from week to week and month
to month, until we finally had
several hundred girls enlisted
and serving actively. One of
the first rules was that when a girl was accepted
and given an Identification Card, her name could
be placed in the files. Every time she attended a
dance or party for the men in uniform she was
asked to bring her card.

We agreed that permanent identification was
necessary and had an attractive pin designed with
gold spread eagle wings, centered with an enamel
shield of red, white and blue, and carrying the
name of the girl in gold. When she was eligible
to receive the pin the Military Maid signed the
following pledge:

   
   
    
 
  

Membership Pledge—Columbus Military Maids

“I, Mary Blank, hereby agree to make a fifty c_ent
eposit on the Emblem pin of the Columbus Mili-
tary Maids, with the understanding that this pin
shall be my personal possession so long as I abide
by all rules and reg- "

ulations governing
dances and parties
given for the men
in the military ser-
vice and at all times
to uphold the high-
est standar_ds of
American Woman-
hood.

“I further agree to
attend each month
at least one or more
parties or dances
sponsored by
churches, USO
centers or the De-
fense Service Coun-
cil, unless unavoid-
ably prevented. The
Columbus Defense
Service Council re-
serves the right to
return the deposit
and recall a pin
from any member
who abuses the
privilege of wear-

MILITARY MAIDS ON THE HOME FRONT

Two "don'ts" for Military Maids are
illustrated in the accompanying pic-
tures which won honorable mention
for the Columbus Department of Rec-
reation in the National Recreation
Association's Photography Contest.

 

Don't forget to listen!

499

ing this emblem of Service.”

This procedure was under
the direction of the Women’s
and Girls’ Committee of the
Columbus Defense Service
Council. The superintendent of
recreation has been chairman
of the committee since it was first set up.

If girls in large numbers were to be provided
for several dances every week, chaperones and
hostesses were needed to work with the Official
Hostess. These chaperones were selected from
among the married women in the city, many of
whom already had sons in the Army or daughters
who attended the dances. This group also had to
be built up gradually and as they became more
highly organized they found it necessary to meet
once a month regularly and to adopt these “rules
and regulations”:

I. Only registered Military Maids will be in-
vited to the dances.

2. A hostess and a sufficient number of ofiicial
chaperones will accompany girls to each dance.

3. For all dances at Fort Benning, chartered
buses furnish transportation to and from dances.
Girls are notified of
the central meeting
place from which
the bus will leave.
'Those who do not
have transportation
home after the
dances are taken
directly to their
homes by the char-
tered bus.

4. N 0 girl may
leave the building
where the dance is
held.

5. O n 1' y s of t
drinks and light re-
freshments will be
served.

6. The dances
start at 8 P. M. and
are over not later
than 11:30 P. M.

7. A girl must be
sixteen or over.

8. Dances are in-

(Continued on
page 537)

Play in Education

By JOSEPH LEE

child playing, I think

the first thing you
will be struck by will be
his seriousness. \Vhether
he is making a mud pie,
building with his blocks, playing ship or horse or
steam engine, or marching as a soldier to defend
his country, you will see, if you watch his face,
that he is giving his whole mind to the matter in
hand, and is as much absorbed in it as you become
in your most serious pursuits.

It is the supreme seriousness of play that gives
it its educational importance. The question is not
of learning, nor yet of
power, but of character.
The test of a true educa-
tional experience is that it
leaves a larger personality
behind.

It is only in his play that
the child’s whole power is
called forth,

IF YOU WILL watch a

Play a Part of Nature’s
Law of Growth

Play builds the child. It
is a part of nature’s law of
growth. It is in truth for
the sake of play, and of growth conducted by it,
that there is such a thing as a child at all. . . . Play
is, in sober truth, the very act and throe of growth.

Growth through play is an example of growth
through action. But it is also much more than
that: play is the essential part of education. It is
nature’s prescribed course. School is invaluable in
forming the child to meet actual social opportuni-
ties and conditions. W'ithout the school he will not
grow up to fit our institutions. Without play he
will not grow up at all.

Play and Leadership

Teaching is thus a necessary part of play because
the play instincts themselves

call for it. Children do not in-
herit baseball any more than
they inherit the Lord’s Prayer,
as George E. Johnson truly

The notion that play and
500

Atew extracts from a book written by a
man who knew and. understood children

Twenty-seven years ago Joseph Lee. in a book.
Play in Education, painted a picture of the
whole which has served as a guide for innu-
merable parents. teachers. and play leaders.
Out of print for many years. a new issue of
this book has iust been made available. No
revision has been made because none was neces-
sary. Play in Education will help you under-
stand today's child. with his fundamental urges
and desires and his play needs. and it will
help you meet these needs. For now. if ever.
it is important that we understand the child.

to help him adjust to a world of strain;
to malte possible for him a normal childhood.

"Fla is growth under the supervision
of t e great achieving instincts. the
chief of which are hunting. fighting.
creating. rhythm. nurture. curiosity.
team play. These form the constant
Sal's- element in the child's life and become

the warp of the resulting fabric."

    
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
  

teaching are incom
ble. that in order to gi
a child a chance to .
out his own nature y
must leave him alone,
based on a false idea I.
the nature of the child and of the relation betwe
play and leadership.

Education—which is the promotion of growtl
child culture—will include teaching both in
school and on the playground; but it will never c01
clude, because teaching is part of the law of growtl
that it is the" whole of it. It will not omit life its
in order to supply one necessary means of livin

The Great Achieving
Instincts

Play is growth under t1
supervision of the gre
achieving instincts, tl
chief of which are huntin
fighting, creation, rhythi
nurture, curiosity, and te
play. These form the c 7'
stant element in the child’
life and become the war
of the resulting fabric.

But these instincts ar
not all equally active a
the time. Every one knows that a growing chil
passes through successive phases.

Childhood is thus divided into different age
fairly well marked, each dominated by one or mor
instincts that color for a time the whole process u
development.

First there is the period of babyhood, from birt
to about three years old, during which the child’
life is largely in his relation to his mother. The
comes the dramatic age, from three to six, i
which the impulse to impersonate colors almost .
of his activity.

These ages are of course not separated by har
and fast lines. They not onl
shade into each other but the
overlap. But though not sep
rated by definite boundari
these different phases clearl
enough exist and are very gen
erally recognized.

 
  
   
    
  
  
 
 
 

In practical dealing with chil-
n in their play such recogni-
‘ is very important.

In short the fact of first im-
tance as regards the child is
t he grows, that, like every
wing thing, he passes through successive per-
5, and that period once passed will not return.
rpe diam, make hay while the sun shines, strike
ile the iron is hot—proverbial admonition to
feliness applies with especial force in education.
matters of growth opportunity does not recur.
he Social Instinct. To the little child, his mother
not merely a part of his environment; she is his
rld, the medium in which all his acts take place,
' atmosphere wherein he lives and moves.

It is in this, his earliest social world, this happy

ciety of two which he is born into, that the child

t finds his life.

he social instinct of children of this first age——

in birth to three years old—is chiefly toward

! ir elders; their need of association with their
itemporaries is as yet but very slight.

An interesting and momentous expression of the
ial instinct in children of this age is that of
. ‘guage. The sources of this greatest of our in—
'tutions are visible in their instinctive play. The
ence of conversation, the meeting of two minds,
. g precedes ability to talk. Mother and child
l derstand one another before any word has been
oken on the one side, or any sensible and articu-
e syllable upon the other, with a depth and con-
' nce that would require a hundred volumes to
plain, and would even then leave the best un-
itten.

" Always with children, I think, as with other
0ple, the essential thing in conversation is not

‘ conveying of information but the establishing
mutual sympathy and the pleasure of mutual
ercourse. That is why childrian, like their elders,
' questions when they care little about the
swers, and when they cannot think of something
w to say fall back on something not so new.
dless repetition of the same questions, jokes,
en of the same grunts and
ieals, attests this perennial

   
 
 
   
   

 
  
   
  

  
   
   

The child is thus a social
ing from the very start.
is mind implies society as
uly as his lungs imply air
' his stomach food.

Society and solitude, light

 

I'ln brief there is a tide in the
affairs of childhood whichI taken

at the flood' leads on to Man—and
which must be so taken if such
destiny is ever to be reached.II

"There are many ways of simplifying life
sire. to a very small childI chief of which is
to refrain from complicating it by too
many toysl too many people. and too
much change of scene. Besides the need
of quiet there is the need to organizeI to
get baclt where there are a few obiects
and all of them familiar' to set one's
house in order, unify one's world."

. PLAY IN EDUCATION 501

and shade, activity and rest—
such is the law of life for human
beings from birth on. . . . To the
child as a social creature, a
human though not a fussy en—
vironment, and eSpecially a
mother’s understanding and reciprocation, is the
first essential.

The Manipulating Instinct. If you will walk
through the poorer quarters of any city and watch
what the smaller children are doing, you will find
that three out of every four who are doing any-
thing definite at all—anything beyond running
about and squealing or gazing solemnly-at the
passing show—have taken to themselves a broken
bottle of tomato can and are filling it with dirt
from the street, tipping it out on the sidewalk or
the house steps, and then gathering it up again and
repeating the process. Indeed, you will see the
same sort of thing going on wherever there are
children and material that they can dig or handle.
A collateral attraction of the curbstone or the
house step is that it is the right height to sit on—
for children, when you come to think of it, live in
a world that is all tables and fioorsmwhat grown-
up people call chairs being so high that your legs
hang down as a fringe.

\Vhat the child with the tomato can is doing is
something that all children like to do. And what
they like about it is manipulation, the use of the
hands in the movement, control and fashioning of
outward things. Perverse parents think that the
reason children find the gutter so delightful is that
they like dirt—especially if they have their good
clothes on, But the children who play in this way
are mostly too young to appreciate this particular
attraction. It is not the dirtiness of the dirt they
like; it is the fact that it can be handled, molded,
or shoveled up and put into something. What the
child wants, and will find if he is not utterly'
starved of Opportunity, is things to work on—
something outside of himself that he can control.
And in particular he wants material to handle;
the hand is the invariable instrument of his desire.

In this manipulating in-
stinct we touch something not
merely common to all chil-
dren but fundamental in the
process of their growth. His
active instincts find their nat-
ural issue in the hand; his
mind is focused on it and on
what it does. To act is for

502 PLAY IN EDUCATION

him to handle, to manipulate.

And as with action and emo—
tion, so with knowledge also.
To know is at first to touch,
and for a long time to examine
is to handle or pull apart.
Through life the real is to man—
kind the tangible. The doubt—
ing Thomas may refuse the
testimony of his eyes, but what
his hand reports is final fact.
To mankind as to the child the
hand is at once the executive
member and the means both of
feeling and of knowing the
deepest sense.

\Ve are all of us most liter—
ally hand-made. In general the
child’s first use of the hand is in grasping with it
as a whole.

The Wielding Instinct. Then comes the wielding
instinct. There are some things too large to swal-
low and not pre—eminently satisfying to suck. The
child finds that it is good simply to take hold of
things and shake them. He will seize and brandish
any object that is at all suited to the purpose—a
spoon, stick, pencil, watch, or block—and become
much excited, and look quite fierce, in doing so.
Afterwards, well satisfied with the results thus far
obtained, he may find banging on the floor or on
his tray, or pounding one block on another, de-
sirable variations because of the good resistance
encountered and the pleasing sounds produced.
Thus emerges the definite instinct to strike things
with a stick or weapon of some sort.

Here, I take it, enveloped in these wielding and
striking instincts, is the beginning of the use of
tools. Man is the tool-bearing animal.

The Instinct to Handle Things. Appearing about
the same time as the wielding instinct or a little
later, there is a general undifferentiated instinct to
handle things—to take hold of them, move them
about, feel what they are like. Children like to
take sand or grave] in their hand and then tip it
out and watch it fall, and will contentedly so oc-
cupy themselves for long per—
iods. The manipulation we
have noted in the child of the
streets or of the sand pile is
an instance of the same in-
stinct.

Interwoven with the ma-
nipulating, grasping, and

i“if!” 11" 111013. HWE
Ffl'lM Tle .GCUlgsgg

 

"The baby grasps at everything in sight.
He not only wants the earth but does
not draw the line even at the moon in
his prehensile aspirations. And what-
ever he gets hold of he puts. it possi-
ble. in his mouth. He leads, indeed.
during the first few months' an em-
phatically hand-to-mouth existence."

   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   

wielding instincts is that
possession and control. T
receptacle habit, as illustra -
in the use of the tin pail r
tomato can, represents an i
pulse toward general domini
over outward things. W
the child gets the sand into 1
pail he can take it where
chooses, do what he likes wi
it: it is in his power.

The classic object of the
differentiated handling insti
is the ball, especially of wors .
or of hollow rubber so as to (
soft and squashy. A spec'
fascination of the ball is that
moves after you let it go. T
ball furthermore, is mentally acceptable. T
point of being mentally congenial is of importan
from the very first in children’s play. All activ'
has of course a mental element, just as all think'
is a kind of action. But besides having this nec
sary mental dimension in all his acts, the ch'
has a special instinct both to measure and organi
his world upon the one hand and to push forw
its frontiers on the other—to explore and to .
similate. .

So when a child is tipping sand or gravel out
his hand you will often see him stop and exami
some little object—a straw or stone. \Vhen .
tips the dirt out of his tomato can onto the si
walk he does so partly that he may study it. T
sidewalk is his operating table, and you will '
him separate out small pebbles or particles of s
and examine them with great attention. A c
crawling about the floor will pick up a min
thread from the carpet and look at it a long ti
and with all his eyes. The value of having t
hands and not merely one, like the elephant,
seen in his tearing, dissecting, examining, in t
early pursuit of science.

In short the great instinct of curiosity as
itself almost from the very first. The smallest c
is scientist as well as man of action. The ban
servant of the mind as well
of the will; or rather it
now his will toward the 0
side world to master it
only in the physical but in I
mental sense— to get t
whole universe into his p
where he can swing it.

PLAY IN EDUCATION 503

The Constructive Instinct.
Some day when the child of
this first age (birth to three
years old) is playing with a
handful of damp sand he
queezes it between his hands and then peeps in
and sees that it has kept its shape; and lo! a new
ra in his life! He has seen a material object
marked with his image and superscription: he has
tamped his thought upon a fragment of the ex-
ternal world. From that day on, making things
will be for him an essential strand of life. The
onstructive instinct runs thenceforward through
he whole of infancy. He will not now be happy
.~ nless he can not only handle, wield, and strike,
ut make.
In this first period the instinct takes a rudi-
mentary form. The mud pie, the classic and
'-boriginal production, owes its fascination partly
'erhaps to its gooey consistency, partly to its sat-
sfying response on being spatted on the top with
,poon or digger, but chiefly I think to its supreme
implicity of construction. Sand operations are as
., et mostly confined to simple piles or pyramids—
l:lso much spatted with spoon or shovel —and to
' igging holes, the latter operation being at first
'arried on with a forward and back rhythmic mo-
ion, both hands at once, like a woman washing
lothes, and accompanied by a runic ballad of some
rt.
Digging early develops, with a little suggestion,
to the cooperative enterprise of tunneling from
I e hole to another—making “geranium drains,”
a child I used to know called these subterranean
. : ssages—with much resultant thrill when the two
.nds meet below the earth. I remember my own
In st idea of “Sandy Claws” was thus obtained.
Soon the children like to use molds—the tin
ail, yielding its standard brown loaf, or shells or
.a covers, or more elaborate ones producing
alloped cakes.
Every child loves blocks, and should have as
'any hundred of them as his parents can afford
(1 their house will hold. And there should be a
rge supply on every playground. The brick-
haped block is best as most practical and least
imited by its shape to any special form of edifice.
‘Building blocks” at this first age is not elaborate.
t begins with simple repetition placing one block
» another and then another block on that, thus
caring a Tower of Babel—first form of archi-
ctural aspiration—as high as envious gods
- rmit. Even before that the blocks are placed

"Childhood is the name of the world's

immediate future} of such' and such
alone, is the promise of the king-
dom of men."—Walter de la Mare.

simply in a row along the floor.

Do not get impatient with
these slow and tentative begin-
nings, or force the constructive
spirit beyond its natural gait.
Should music supersede architecture, and the
block that was the head of the corner be suddenly
diverted in its use to pounding upon that which
formed its base as an accompaniment to im-
promptu martial songs, accept the change as nat-
ural and probably well timed. Babies are pretty
good self-trainers. They usually know how long
to stick at a thing, and if allowed to leave off when
they want to they do not get over-trained.

On the other hand children do not need to be
constantly diverted as some parents seem to think.
They should be given a chance to be absorbed.

Do not be forever meddling, interfering, asking
questions, showing them a better way. Give the
constructive power in your children scope and
elbow room—the temple that it builds is invisible
to any eyes but theirs; if you blur and joggle their
vision it is lost, and its work in them will remain
forever unaccomplished.

In all the material the child will now or later
learn to use—sand, blocks, clay, cloth, beads,
paper, wood, or raflia—adaptability is the main
consideration. It must be plastic to.his hand and
mind. Not something you have shaped for him,
but something he can shape for himself, is what he
wants.

Sand is the classic material of 'childhood be-
cause it is the least committed. Sand is the silent
comrade who understands, to whom children con-
fide their notions of how the universe should be
arranged. There should be sand, a little damped
so as to hold its shape, for every child to use; a
sand pile in the back yard, a sand box or sand
table in the playground, with a cover folded back
or other good place for the young Phidias to
fashion and set forth his wares.

But whatever the later incarnations of the crea-
tive instinct, however wide its subsequent variety
of form, its first unfolding, the germ of whatever
power it may afterwards attain, is in the child’s
instinctive molding with his hands. To construct
is in these first years to make things with one’s
hands.

And construction in this first, manual, form
must be allowed its scope if the full power is ever
to be born. The mental process in all construction
is the same. Once a builder, the child may build
in many ways and to a wide variety of ends, but

504 PLAY IN EDUCATION

the power must get its tirst growth in the form
that nature has prescribed.

And as of the method, so also of the period of
growth. The time to receive an inspiration is when
it comes. An instinct must be utilized while it is
there, and while the child’s nature is plastic to
its impress.

After he has learned to walk, and while he is in
the balancing business the child takes occasion to
carry his proficiency much further than merely
walking on the level floor. He likes to walk along
a board laid on the ground, as it is still quite a
feat to walk such a straight and narrow path.

When he is a little more advanced he likes to
get up on the sofa, and rejoices in its lively and
disconcerting response to his motions and in the
way it pushes his feet up after him when he steps.
He stands in the rocking-chair or on a wobbly
board or box, and tries how fast he can make it
vibrate before catastrophe ensues. Children when
they have just learned to walk like running down
a bank or slanting board, their feet going, appar-
ently on their own responsibility, out into space
before them as' they descend. And they will fre-
quently return to this ad-
venture even when disaster
has accompanied a first ex-
periment. I
have seen a
small boy who
h a d l at e l y
l e a r n e d t 0
walk stand up
on a toboggan
and in that po-
sition slide
down a slope
where many
grown people
would have
found some
d iffic u 1 t y.
There should
be banks or
s l a n t i n g
boards,or
something else
of the cellar
door variety.
to run down in
this manner,
as well as to
roll or slide on,

There should be things to slide down in every .
playground to which young children are invited

 

Ph'to bv Gladv: Klein. New York City Park Department

 

 
  
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
     

in every playground to which small children a
invited.

As soon as the child can walk he wants to ru
From that moment locomotion develops on t
two lines of the running, chasing, iighting gam
on the one hand; and of feats of balance and loc
motion on the other, such as balancing on one 10
walking along the tops of fences or on railroc
tracks, running across the rocks, skating. dancin'
surf-running on a board. But of the two tende
cies the more purposeful one, toward the chasii
and fighting games, is by far the stronger.

The Period of Make-Believe

As everybody knows, the play of small childr
—say from two and a half years old to six
thereabouts——-is largely in the form of make- .
lieve. They play doll and horse and soldier; 5211 '
at their touch turns into pies and houses; bloc i
become cows and schooners and railroad trains.
you listen to a child busy over his fortificati
against the waves you may hear him humming
himself a sort of chant; and this epic, often °
audible, is in many children an accompaniment
almost everything they a
Much of the child’s life
this age consists of imp

sonation, t
r e c t l y
through pl
t h i n g s I
which the »
rious parts
assigned, a
there is no t
derstandi
him with a
knowing wl
this sort
drama mea
Essentia
the drama
impulse
children's 1
is the impt
to underst.
.their wor
Everyt hi
f o r h i m
alive until i
contrary 
proved. ’~
sympathe

  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
 
 

I.
J

 
     

erstanding goes out as readily to the wind, the
' ves, the fire engine, as to the dog or kitten. So
. u the interesting thing about any object is its
, . To know what it is like inside, what it is for
elf and when it is at home, how its personality
ls when you are it—is the child’s great desire.
e life in all things is the legitimate object of in-
tigation for a rising young scientist of going—
four-years-old.
The child’s method of study is by impersonation,
putting himself inside the thing he wants to
ow, being it, and seeing how it feels. What he
doing when he acts mother, horse, engine, black-
ith, bear, is finding out by actual experience
at these most interesting playmates really are.
's‘ instinct is to grasp the whole, to enter by one
er leap of intuition into the heart of the object
his study and act out from that.
In getting at the heart of personality the shar-
; of its action is, indeed, the important method.
t the child’s reproduction is never merely of
ions seen, but always of
ions as expressive of the
racter he feels in them.
t going through the mo—
‘15 but getting inside the
son, not being like a steam
ine, still less looking like
, but actually being a
am engine, partaking of its
erience, is where the fun comes in.
‘ ‘ s it is the spirit not the form that governs im-
sonating play, much laxity in method is to be
erved. I heard a boy three and a half years old
'ng “baa, baa” in a plaintive tone of voice.
ullo,” I said: “is that a sheep?” He answered:
se not a sheep; I’m a horsie.” On the other
(Linerceness in driving away wolves and faith-
ess to one’s master, as more expressive of the
l, are usually of a high order.

ecause of this superiority of spirit over form,
' ume is .always of minor interest. It is the ac-
], not the dress, that counts. As horse, accord—
ly, you prance, curvette, champ the bit; dark
itning issues from your rolling eye, fire from
r distended nostrils. But manes and tails and
’ gs, real ones, why anybody who is half a horse
.‘eady has these in his soul, whenever in the toss-
; 0f the head or in stamping to keep off a fly the
r rit calls for them; their physical presentment is
matter of negligible importance.
I ven when, in any particular case, there is in-
tence upon some special mark of outward re—

    
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
  

"The child seems often to be guided in
his choice of subiects for impersona-
tion by the sheer force of curiosity,
the instinct to make acquaintance with
the world. unbiased by any ulterior mo-
tive. The relation here is one of spirit-
ual kinship to the world at large.

PLAY IN EDUCATION 505

semblance——a fur rug for a skin or a pair of paste-
board wings—this is often because such things
have become symbolical. I knew, for instance, a
boy of three who could become “Mr. McGregor,”
whose mission in life it was to chase “Peter Rab-
bit,” only when he glared out from-the inverted
waste-paper basket as through the bars of a hel-
met, although Mr. McGregor, the original of the
part, wears only a skull cap. Not looking like Mr.
McGregor but acting as that hero was the thing;
you are doing this for your own satisfaction, not
to please the audience.

What is true of literalness in your own personal
costume also applies to your “support.” Toys,
things of convenient size and shape to play with,
are indeed essential. But it is what you can do
with or imagine about them, not what they them-
selves can do, that is important. Toys, not fizjigs:
it is the child’s own achievement, not that of the
clever man who made the top, that counts. A toy,
at this age, is chiefly a peg to hang imagination on.
It is the child’s alter ego, to
whom he assigns the parts
that he cannot conveniently
assume himself. And literal
resemblance to their origin—
als is the last thing he re-
quires in his subordinates. An
oblong block will be succes-
sively a cow, a sofa, and a
railway train, and will discharge each part with
perfect satisfaction to its impresario. Too much
realism is indeed a disadvantage, If the block had
actually been in the likeness of a cow, a sofa, or a
railroad train, it would have presented difficulties
—-not indeed insuperable, but a little daunting at.
the outset—in its assignment to the other roles.

A doll that could dance the polka and whistle
“God Save the King” might be a very good doll
for once——perhaps for fifteen minutes on Christ-
mas morning——but after the first fascination of
passive enjoyment had passed away she would be
fit only for the rag bag or to serve as the subject
of an autopsy. A clothespin with a rag tied around
it more nearly answers the requirements because,
like the American girl, she is not committed to
one part in life but is capable of full-illng any posi-
tion to which she may be called: mother, duchess,
cook or fairy princess, it is all one to her; and thus
she holds her own in a world in which one doll in
her time plays many parts—and has got ‘to or lose
her job.

All the world’s a stage to children at this pe-

u

'1 —’w h ‘v'Wr-t
—. f’.-

riod. But the home has the best
scenario and stage properties.
You can there be Abraham
Lincoln or Dr. Jones or a fire
engine horse with less danger of Philistine inter-
ruption than on the playground. The playground
can, however, by suggestion, and by taking serious
things seriously (refraining, for instance, from
asking George Washington half across the Dela-
ware when his mother is coming for him) encour—
age this most important form of play—an encour—
agement especially needed when imagination has
been stunted by a home suffering from that, form
of efficiency mania that would sacrifice a mind’s
development for the sake of a little precocious
knowledge of the grown-up world.

At all events, wherever he is, whether at home
or in school or on the playground, whoever has
charge of the child should re-
member that impersonation is
during this period a chief and
necessary means of growth.

The question of what shall
be reproduced is largely a ques-
tion of what happens to be pre-
sented to the children in their
daily life. Mother, father,

"Imagination is the only net in which
a world of cause and process and ac-
tion can be caught. And imagination
gets its growth in the dramatic play."

"The only way to belong is to belong:
and the only way to develop this fac-
ulty is by belonging. The child in whom
the belonging instinct has not been
exercised according to its nature will
always lack the power of expressing it.
The instinct itself will atrophy. The
family, the stateI will be left out of
him. or only partially developed."

PLAY IN EDUCATION

“i a .1

Courtesy Community Children’s Theater, P010 Alto, Califor '

family life; cook, carpente
railroad train; kitten, dog, .
horse—nothing that the chi]
habitually sees before hi

seems alien to this form of treatment.

A study of the subjects of the child’s imperson
tion during the dramatic age is a study of the d
rections of his growth. The dramatic impulse is
mold into which almost all his interests are ru

The play of the dramatic impulse occurs at t
points where it crosses the other main interests «
the child’s life. When some day a little girl ac
mother for the first time she finds herself in t1
stream of a deeper satisfaction than when she w
a panther or the master of a ship—though the
were also good. Her dolls she finds standing, 1i «
Diana at the crossways, where the dramatic i1
pulse crosses the great instinct of maternity. S
the boy finds Launcelot wi
horse and shining armor awa'
ing him at the point where t
ancient military road comes i
Back of the dancing, social an
constructive dramatizations
of ring-around-a-rosy and m
pies—stand the social and cr
ative instincts and the gr

- .—-‘..—-‘“Ou'~— —-.-

—-

 

PLAY IN EDUCATION 507

instinct of rhythm. The stock characters of the
child’s world are types, ideal forms in which the
great constituent instincts of humanity appear to
him and take him by the hand.

An important part of the child’s play now comes
at the intersection of the dramatic with the con-
structive instinct. The child is no longer content
merely to see the sand stick together in the form

e gave it—it must have a significant coherence.
The hole he digs must be a mine, a subway, or a
secret passage; the sandpile is a church or thea-
er; blocks form houses, with real stairs and other
modern conveniences—prominent among which in
my own case was the “rat-cellar” with which
building operations always began, and which, ac-

ording to my notions, no family should be with-
ut. He now likes to surround his houseS‘with a
garden, smooth, spacious, and well protected by a
wall, with vistas of trees, and stately walks marked
off with shells or stones. Whatever comes within
reach is pressed into the ser-
vice, on condition that it will
“speak up and be somebody.”

In general the subjects of
he dramatic impulse, and of
all a. child’s play for that mat-
er, are expressive of his main
relations, present or to come,
3 to war, maternity, the
amily. But how is it with
‘ orses, dogs, and kittens-— especially with the
ions, tigers, and other friends already mentioned

who live in' Noah’s ark or behind the evergreen
edge and in the dark corner of the entry? How
- ith the ship we built upon the stairs, with the
. olves and Indians who, as I well remember, were
ccustomed to jump out in droves from behind the
tone wall when one was riding by—on a short
wing in the play room? How do they fit'in with
his theory of main relations?

As to animals in general—even the bears and
lephants one never saw——..fthese are members in
ull standing if not of the family, at least of the
hild’s world—poor relations, perhaps, if not main
elations.

When the play is of fairies, kings, and'giants, it

erves, as stories later serve, to project the mind
nto regions that are its own by virtue of knowing. I "
ow to long for them. The relation here fulfilled «

's that of the child to what belongs to him, not
ow as a child, nor perhaps ever as an individual,

ut as the blossom of a race that inherits the earth.
Finally the child seems often to be directed in

"It is by hospitality of mind. by comrade—
ship. by a bonhomie as yet wholly trusttul
and unchilledI not only toward his fellow
humans but toward birds and beasts and
bits of wood or stone. toward grass and
trees and brooks and furniture. that the child
conquers the secrets of the physical world
as well as the hearts of those about_:him."

his choice of subjects for impersonation by the
sheer force of curiosity, the instinct to make ac—
quaintance with the world, unbiased by any ul-
terior motive. The relation here is one of spiritual
kinship to, the world at large.

Such are the subjects of impersonation. They
radiate out along the main lines of growth—-—of
fighting, nurture, rhythm, and social membership,
of creation and curiosity. And upon these radii,
by means of this activity, proceeds the growth of
the child of the dramatic age.

The Child and the Family

All their dramatic play is social in a sense; they
are true citizens of the world, and every object
that interests them is their friend and playmate.

But children are also social in a more special
manner. It is no accident that so much of their
play centers in the family.

Child and family are correlative-— parts of a
single whole. They grew to-
gether and are in truth but
one phenomenon. It was the
rise of the family that made
infancy possible — that long
period of helpfulness in a
world of internecine com-
petition. Without it there
could never have been a
child at all. He is the
creature of this institution as the fish is the creature
of the sea, the bird of the air; and his every
thought and tendency has reference to it. So when
a child acts father or mother for an afternoon he
not only experiences an interesting personality,
but he sees an all enveloping relation from the
other side, enters more intimately into that primal
social unit of which he is a product and a part.

Social membership, which thus has its first
growth in the inner circle of the home, is the great
moralizing influencev in tour lives, the source of
obligation}- and self-sacrifice. The mark of all
morality is subordination. Surrender to something
greater than one’s self is of the essence of the
spiritual life—of all life, for there are not two
kinds. "

And the subordination most necessary to health
in human beings is this of social membership. It

‘--is not! enough to be given to your art or business.

You must be subject also to your parents, your
city, your community.

The precocious acquirement of knowledge is a
process by which one thing done badly at the

505 PLA 3" LV El) L’L'A TION

wrong time takes the place uf
two things that might each
have been done well when the
time was ripe for it. The way
to cultivate a child or any
growing thing is to help it as
it is growing now, not to do
what would help it at some
other time. Timeliness, as Emerson said, is the
lesson of the garden, and it would be a blessed
thing if we would apply this lesson to plants whose
growth is more important than that even of roses
or potatoes.

The Society of Contemporaries

But the family is not the only social object of
children of the dramatic age. There is also the
society of their contemporaries, The child of the
preceding period—that is until he approaches three
years old—has little social sense toward his equals.
At those functions at which a hostess aged some
two years is at home to her friends and their
respective chaperons, you will see one child crawl
over another without the slightest sense of en—
countering anything
more than a physi-
cal impediment. Or
he will abstract a
plaything from the
hand of another
child in perfect un-
consciousness of do—
ing anything un-
kind. He is not sel-
fish, he is simply
oblivious of the
other’s existence as
anything more than
a physical object in
the landscape. He
sees something he
wants, in a conveni—
ent place, and takes
it as he would take
it off a cushion or a
chair. A child below
three years old will
sometimes, it is true,
show an interest in
his contemporaries,
as in other flora and
fauna of his envi—
ronment, or even a

"It is through the child's membership little more than toward th
in the family that the citizen in him
gets his deepest growth. The instinct
of children of this age is not mis-
taken. The home is the natural habitat
of the human young. of the child's soul
even more than of his body, the moral
center around which he is formed."

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
    

rest. But it is an interest tha
does not strongly impel to and
common enterprise or ofte
survive his natural absorptio
in his own pursuits.

But at somewhere about th
age of three there comes

change. The child now seeks the society of othe
children, and begins not merely to like to ha ‘
them round but to cooperate with them. The chil
dren now join together in their building oper
tions; their dolls form a visiting acquaintance
they themselves form households, or armies to
the expulsion of the invader; or present Georg
\Vashington, with a select group of his leadin
generals, looking sternly out upon his country'
foes.

It is very important that this new social tet
dency should have its way. He is now among 11'
equals, and after the first shock of finding himse
seriously opposed he enjoys the experience.

The mere coming together—learning, as Goetl
put it, to look level as well as up or down—is a
essential part of an
form of child-ga
dening that can
any possibility su
ceed.

Very characteri
tic of the play r
this age is the rit
game, and very si
nil‘icant.

Children in t

ring games,as in t
fatnin relation, .
in the direct ex
cise of the belon ‘
ing instinct, whi :
is not an impulse
think about 0th
people, or to f
their interests in ‘
altruistic way,
an impulse to thi
and feel as the °
cial body of whi
you and they
parts—to have t ' ‘
soul of it in you -
act out from that.

Except as he

    
   

member, citizen, the child
vill lack the chief basis of
lrnorality, He will scarce be
'human, will miss the most
precious part of his inheri-

. And the time for this de-

velopment is now, when the instinct clearly calls
for exercise. Our answer to this call will deter-
mine the child’s power of membership, the extent
to which, so far as he is concerned, the state Or

|family or church or any social organism shall
exist.

The Importance of Rhythm

During the dramatic age there is rhythm not
only in their games, but in almost everything the
children do.

Pat-a-cake itself is the beginning of a new mani-
estation of the rhythmic impulse, combining as it
oes rhythm of motion and rhythm of sound—
dancing, music, poetry, and social intercourse—
11 in one. Many, and highly satisfactory to the
'outhful poet and dramatist, are the games of this
lass, such as rock-a-by—baby, ride a cock horse,

had a little hobby horse, this little pig went to
market.

Grown people, it must be admitted, have an es-
ential part in the development of this whole class
f song and movement games. The child knows
iothing of pigs going to market, of adventures
- ith a hobbyhorse, or of ladies with bells on their
oes, until somebody instructs him in such mat-
ers. But he is nevertheless responsible for these
nanifestations as the public is always responsible
or the sort of entertainment it receives. He and
is instinctive predilections constitute the demand
hich the inventions of his elders strive to satisfy.
' hese jingles hrst appear in the response of grown
ople to the child’s rhythmic “talk.” They begin
y saying “gaa—gaa-gaa-gaa” after him, following
is accent and gesture, as an instinctive sign that
'. iis is a responsive world and that his effort was
ticed and understood.
. After a time, when the main stem of rhythm——
! ith its combined expression
It drama, dance, and song—
kes definite form in the ring
:1ame, the instinct throws off
i branch, combining song and
Story, but without a dance ac-
ompaniment — from which
ranch again, a little later on,

  
 
 
    
 

 
   
  
  
  
   
   
     
  
 

  

 

"Those who desire their children to have
the enlargement of the great world of art
will do well to encourage those plays in
which. through bodily motion. the soul
and radiating center of all the arts gets
established in them and entwined with all
I ance. the deepest elements of their growth."

"It is the supreme seriousness of play
that gives it its educational impor-
tance. The question is not of learning.
nor yet of power. but of character. The
test of a true educational experience
is that it leaves a larger personality
behind. It is only in his play that the
child's whole power is called forth."

PLAY IN EDUCATION 509

another sub-branch, the story
set only to the rhythmic jin-
gle but without a tune, again
separates. (The hnal sepa-
ration, giving us the story
without rhythm, comes at a
later stage.) There thus ap—
pear the distinctly literary—as distinguished from
the musical and athletic—forms of rhythm, so well
illustrated in the selected wisdom of Mother Goose.

The sound is the important thing. As the suc-
cessors of gaa—gaa-gaa-gaa, their meaning to the
child is necessarily only a little less vague than
that of the lyrics that they have superseded. Their
merit is in that they are of marked and varied
rhythm, so married to the words that the two in-
evitably stick together and stick in the memory as
a permanent possession and a means of further
assimilation. What they mainly do for the child is
to give him the freedom of the world of rhythm,
teach him the first paces of the mind, the varying
gaits of thought and action. It is an important en-
largement of one’s world to be made free of a
variety of meters, to be enabled to think and act
in trochee, dactyl, or iambus, as the spirit moves,
and to enter into the feelings of others who do the
same.

A special manifestation of the rhythmic impulse
during the ’dramatic age is in the popularity of the
swing, a popularity universal and extraordinary,
hrst attaching to the paternally supplied appara-
tus for

Swing, swong, the days are long,
Johnnie shall have a new master,

but soon applying to the familiar and more gener-
ally available arrangement of rope and board.
Children, if permitted to do so, will swing for
almost any length of time.

I believe 'that the chief attraction of the swing
is in its satisfaction of the sense of rhythm. It
fulfills the rhythmic impulse in a special form that
is very deep in us, namely, that of the perpetually
recurring antitheses. Forward and backward—up
and down—society and solitude—exertion and
repose — Republican, Democrat — Tweedledum,
Tweedledee — you can go on
forever with this alternation.

The adoption of song and
rhythmic motion in the ring
game shows the ancient part—
ners, rhythm and the team
sense, at their time-honored

(Continued on page 538)

Community Centers Aid the War Ettort

ll OUR SOCIAL CENTERS ARE WAR SERVICE STATIONS AND INFORMATION CENTERS,” reads the Social Cen
Y ter Directory issued by the Department of Municipal Recreation and Adult Education of Milwau
kee, Wisconsin, in listing the addresses and telephone numbers of the city’s twenty-one schoo
centers. And the emphasis being laid by the Department on the place of the social center in the we:

effort is indicated in the announcement made in the directory of special classes designed to help in win
ning the war.

The announcement reads as follows:

get? WIN THE WAR [IN THE HOME FRONT

  Cloth, Wood Are Needed to Win the War

Sew clothes for your children and your family.

Remodel old coats and dresses into attractive, modern garments.
Reknit old sweaters into socks, caps, and mittens.

Lemn to be a “handy man” with hammer and nails.

  Keep Yourself and Your Family Well and Strong

EAT the right kind of food—Attend a Red Cross Nutrition Course to learn how to buy the
best and the most food with your dollar.

EXERCISE regularly—Join a gymnasium group, a class in boxing, dancing, wrestling; play
basketball, volleyball; join a hiking club.

RELAX from the strain and worry of the day—Enjoy an evening of social recreation with
friends and neighbors. q

AVOID ILLNESS—Learn to check colds and illness at the start. Join a Red Cross course in
Home Care of the Sick.

O

GIVE  Social Centers are War Service Stations

Red Cross Knitting and Sewing—Scrap Collecting—Bond and Stamp Sales-——Air Raid Warden
Meetings—Information on War Regulations.

    TheyAre the Citizens of the New World We Are Fightingf

The Social Centers conduct classes, clubs, and play activities for your sons and daughters after
school and evenings.

CHERISH CITIZENSHIP IN THE UNITED STATES OF 'AMERICA

Continue your study at a social center class. Be intelligent about public affairs. Take part in
the life of your community through the social center activities.

’ Special Classes

    
   
  

At one of the centers a Layman’s Aviation Class for Men_and Women, which started October
1942, is being conducted once a week from 7:30 to 9:30 P. M. The course, which consists of eight
sons, is taught by a government trained, licensed pilot. The content of the course is indicated by
questions asked in the announcement: “Do you know what keeps a plane in the air?” “Do you k
how a pilot operates his plane?” “Can you recognize the different types of planes?” “Do you k
about traiiic laws of the air?” ‘

At the same center the Red Cross is offering a course in nutrition under the leadership of ex
dieticians. ‘

 

Last summer. cities all over the country adapted their playground
programs to meet wartime needs. Many of these same communities
are doubtless expanding and changing their indoor community cen-
ter programs to aid the war ettort. We want to know how you are
serving in the emergency. Won't you send us this information?

510

hen Schools Are Used as Community Centers

UST AT THIS TIME of the
year when the community
center program is in oper—

tion, recreation officials are
oncerned with the administra-
ive problems involved in the
se of school buildings as com-
nunity centers.

The plan of cooperation between the Detroit
epartment of Parks and Recreation and the
oard of Education in the use of school buildings
5 community centers and for other recreational
urposes will be of interest:

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Any use of school buildings for recreational pur-
oses after school hours is granted through the
epartment of Parks and Recreation. Any or-
; anization or group of people in the city of Detroit
5 eligible to use school buildings for recreational
urposes provided there is compliance with“ the

Ies and regulations laid down by the Depart-
u nt of Parks and Recreation.

If the building is to be used for educational pur—
| ses, the application is made directly to the Board
. Education.

In most of the activities the Department of
rks and Recreation furnishes the supervision.
here an association wishes to hold a meeting in
e auditorium, or a parochial school asks per-

The National Recreation Association
will be glad to receive from recre-
ation departments and other groups
conducting recreation centers in
school buildings copies of the poli-
cies. rules and regulations govern-
ing the use of such buildings.

signed, but some reliable per—
son in the group is held re‘
sponsible for the activity.

In the case of damage to the
building while it is being used,
a report is immediately made
out. One copy is sent to the
Board of Education and one
copy to the Department of Parks and Recreation.
Where the group is held responsible for the
damage, the cost of the damage is paid to the
Board of Education by the Department of Parks
and Recreation or the group.

Public school buildings used by the Department
of. Parks and Recreation for recreation activities
throughout the year are requisitioned in the fol—
lowing manner: Requisitions covering schools de-
sired are sent to the Board of Education. These
requisitions cover the gymnasium, playroom, kin-
dergarten, room for handcraft, aircraft, art room
and others; and hours, days, and similar informa-
tion. Copies are retained for the records of the
Department of Parks and Recreation. When the
school is available, a written permit is received
from the Board of Education indicating the charge
for service which is determined by the Board in
accordance with the engineer, janitor, and bath
attendant wage scale. A copy of the permit is sent

by the Board of Education to
each school, which informs

(Continued on page 536)

.‘ssion to have a school bas-
tball game in the gymnas-

_ . _ Careful planning is making it possible to
m, no superv151on 18 as-

utilize for community purposes an increas-
ing number of America's school buildings

 

Courtesy The American School and University

511

What They Say About Recreation

” HE TRAINING of the athletic held, which pro-
duces in a superlative degree the attributes
of fortitude, self-control, resolution, courage,

mental agility, and, of course, physical develop-

ment, is one completely fundamental to an eHicient
soldiery.”—General Douglas hIacArtlzitr.

“\\'e must not forget that if we do not provide
organizations that are social, moral, and beneficial,
young people will invariably drift into gangs and
cliques of their own creation. They have to be
skillfully guided into the more formal social ac-
tivities."—lVilliam S. Sadler in Piloting Modern
Youth.

“Youth needs in these times the moral equiva-
lent of adventure. . . . It is that instinctive yearn-
ing in the heart of youth to do and be recognized
for doing those things which evoke social and self
approval.”—Hon. Robert H. Scott in The Tax
Digest for September 1942.

“A sport is a game or some form of physical
exercise done for the fun of it. Because it gives you
pleasure. . . . Experience has convinced me that
sports or games played in the open air are more
beneficial than indoor games and sports. But in-
door sports are vastly better than no sports at all.”
——John Tunis in Sport for the Fun of It.

“\Vithout morale at home we cannot maintain
morale in the plant and in the service. Sports,
games, and recreations are vital builders of this
morale; they build for the defense of today and
for a better tomorrow.”—l V ilsm-z M. Ranch.

“\Ve may be sure of this: The individual may
go down, but the people will go forward. They
will climb and fall and lose ground, but never all
the ground, Leaders will weaken and pass but
new ones will take their places and humanity will
go forward and will not fail.”—Joy Elmer Morgan.

“The ability to play should be cultivated as a
valuable asset for what it would add not only to
the individual’s ability to enjoy leisure and life in
general, but also to his mental health and his

ability to adjust to all sorts of situations.”—Dr. D.
A . Thom.

512

   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  

In a special message to Congress the Presid
of the United States, in listing certain rights, g
emphasis to the right to “rest, recreation and a
venture, the opportunity to enjoy life and take p
in an advancing civilization.”

“Through planned leisure art may be restored
the amateurs and a real folk art may emerge.
will make for a happier people.”—George H:
in Administration of Public Recreation.

“Home is coming to mean more and more
children as the days pass. Fathers and s
mothers and daughters, are working toget
having fun together, facing life together. . . .
loses its terror if there are love and tenderness 4
understanding to combat it.”—From Child

July 1942.

“Give yourself an extra generous injection
wholesome fun to balance the extra strain of
time. . . . It is certain you can relieve the a
grind and make a more vigorous contributi
winning the war.”—Dr. Victor C. H eiser.

“\N e cannot win the war with work alone. W
demands rest . . . and wholesome recreation.
Dr. Andrew,-Ley, Northwestern University.

“In its truest form the art of city buildi
the art of creating the kind of environment 11 -

to produce and maintain human values.”—Th
Adams.

“Recreation is no longer considered to be a
the superfluities of life, but is one of the r
essentials for the development of healthy,
rounded, balanced personalities.”—-Clara i
in Mental Hygiene in the C onrmrmity.

“What a sad situation it would be if we
carry on park and playground programs 0
times of depression l”—Mayor Fiorello LaG \

“Any genuine culture must rest upon .
affected preference for the fine, strong, true, 1
and beautiful, and in music these preference
be cultivated in connection with the simplest a
as the more complex elements of the art.”—
Earhart in Our H omes.

’ Cincinnati's 200-Acre Recreation Field

By TAM DEERING
Direc’ror of Recrea’rion
Cincinnati, Ohio

HE MILLION DOLLAR Airport Recreation Field
Tin Ohio’s second city is salvage from the dec-
ade of depression. Had it not been for the
hunger of thousands of men and the dearth of work
| it is not likely that approval could have been
obtained in Cincinnati for this type of develop-
ment. \Vhen an additional thousand men had to
be given work in the month of December, 1933,
with the inauguration of C.W.A., the Recreation
Commission saw its opportunity. It leased the 200—
acre portion of the municipal Airport farthest from
the hangars—a sink hole which had long lain idle

as a flood water area nine feet below the level of
the flying field.

Urged even by recreation leaders to construct
another “sure fire” golf course on the 200-acre
area, the Commission held to its purpose to blaze a

lnew trail. The new interest in bicycling every-
.where suggested the possibilities of a fifteen or
twenty mile trail as planned, or even a four and a
half mile trail such as was actually constructed.
{The prevalence of recreation illiteracy among the
.people suggested the possibilities of a “sportse—
teria” designed to attract the.
interest of the typical Ameri-
Ican—who has never learned

'to play.

Even before it started, the
project was rejected by those
in authority, but when no
other department could take
the additional thousand men,
'the Recreation Commission
was allowed to put them to
work with mules and wagons
and shovels. In midwinter,
they moved enough earth to
lift thirty acres of the pro-
posed playfield two feet above
its former level. This was the
site chosen for the buildings
and night-lighted facilities to
insure their being on dry

land in ordinary flood times when the other 170
acres would be covered with water.

Difiiculties Pile Up

Passers-by insisted that the playneld was the
premiere of all boon-doggling projects. So many
criticized during the ensuing years, as project fol-
lowed project, and so few had confidence in the
undertaking that even the head of the local
F.E.R.A., which was supplying the Federal labor,
gravely inquired whether anyone would ever use
the facilities and whether it might not be wiser to
drop the undertaking!

The authorities again and again rejected pro-
posed additional projects and were persuaded only
when they had no other possibility of providing
employment.

The flood of 1937 threatened to be the end of
the Airport Playfield scheme. It destroyed the
sixteen tennis courts and injured other improve-
ments. Matters reached a crisis. Public opinion
rose as high as the thirty-five feet of flood waters
that covered the area! The verdict was that the
very idea of the playlield should be sunk as deep as
the 200-acre field. But fortunately the Recreation

A young play leader Jrakes a mean cut
at the ball and—well. ii's on its way!

 

514 CINCINNATI’S ZOO-ACRE RECREATION FIELD

Commission had conceived the idea of converting
the entire 200 acres into a beautiful turf. \Vhen
the Commission bought several tons of grass seed,
the largest order ever cleared through the Pur-
chasing Division, there were angry protests from
prudent householders who had confined all their
grass seed purchases to ounces. The City Hall
rocked somewhat from the force of the outcries,
but when all the grass seed was found to be en-
scribed in the WPA project as sponsor’s contri-
bution, the project rolled on once more.

Sown in October, 1936, the seed outgrew the
storm of criticism which followed the destruction
of the great flood. The grass survived the waters
and grew into a beautiful meadow where formerly
had stood 200 acres of ugly horseweeds fifteen
feet high.

Capitalizing on a bit of popular appreciation of
the attractive landscape, the Recreation Commis-
sion struck hard to win a new improvement proj-
ect. It was successful, but a year later in January,
1938, when the project was in full swing, the tide
of complaints had risen so high that the authori-
ties urged the Recreation Commission to “drop the
whole business and get away from the area. No
one will ever use it. Why, it’s seven miles from
downtown! Everybody is against it. It’s the worst
thing you’ve ever done I” It seemed that the end
had come, but again the Commission had good
luck. It was found that once a WPA project was
under way it was difiicult to stop itl The Com-
mission decided to risk no further delay, and al-
though the improvements planned were only half
completed, the area was opened for play three
months later, in April 1938.

The Commission itself was surprised by what
followed. Asked to approve the purchase of 100
bicycles, it cut the order to twenty and expressed
concern lest bicycling be merely a fad. Ultimately
260 were purchased and the people took to them
eagerly, standing in line to get a chance to ride
over the dirt trails on a Sunday afternoon. From
the opening date, there was play in each of the dif-
ferent sports as soon as facilities were completed.

Finally -- Success!

The most dramatic episode in the long unfold-
ing of the playfield project
came three months later. It
was a warm summer evening
in July when for the first time
the field was flooded with the
200,000 watt night-lighting

"It is just as essential to keep up the
bodily health. strength, and balance of
our people at home as to do the same
for the armed forces of the United

States."—Mayor James G. Stewart.

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
  

system. There was no ceremony, nor was there
any need of such.

The length of the hundred-foot-wide roadway
parking area on the field below was crowded with
the automobiles of people who were at play every-
where under the lights. The length of the mile-
long Beechmont Avenue which stands twenty feet
above the field was crowded with the cars of citi-
zens who stopped only to watch the fun. Those
below expressed their delight in laughter. Those
above were amazed. They had been sure that
adults at play were adults at night clubs, sitting at
the radio, at the movies, at the ball game or just
sitting, Now they were astonished to discover that
great numbers of adults can enjoy themselves play-
ing simple games. They heard the gay laughter
that burst forth from a family group at table
tennis. They saw women bicycling who had not
done so since the gay nineties. They saw young
people riding tandem, old men at horseshoes,
swarms of adults of all ages playing tennis, archery
and other sports. And they believed what they
sawl

Every night thereafter for months the long queue
of automobiles appeared on the upper level. The
players gathered below. What went on in the
minds of the players was as varied as the groups.
Dreams of vacations at the beach or mountains,
which the dreamers knew could never be, came
true on the sports field at the Airport. The “coun-
try club” came to the pe0ple. The ability of peo-
ple to entertain themselves at simple things, some-
thing which seémed to have vanished, came alive
again. But not for any one group. Some arrived
by street car, by bus, or on foot; others we
driven by chauffeurs. Packard cars were parke
alongside Model “T’s.” Every section of the city
and the widest range of incomes were represented.

The “democratic way,” true to its best tradi-
tions, was in evidence in every activity on the 200-
acre area. If an individual wished to remain b
himself, he played “solitaire,” or with his “buddy,”
family, or particular group. If his nature was gre
garious, he found plenty of opportunity to get
acquainted and to share in mass play. From the
comments made by thousands of players it wa
obvious that Cincinnati had a testing ground for
an important social experiment
in the field of municipal rec-
reatlon.

It Pays Its Way

For some people, the most

eloquent proof of the public’s

CINCINNATI’S ZOO-ACRE RECREATION FIELD 515

Mayor James G. Stewart
patronizes Cincinnati's
Airport Playfield and

paddles his own canoe!

acceptance of this new type
of municipal service will
be found in the fact that it
has paid its own way every
year.

The record of receipts
is as follows: 1938—
$11,400; I939—$22,7oo;
I940 ——.$3‘0,4oo; 1941 —
$50,500; 1942‘ — $60,000
(estimated). The relative
standing of each activity
in terms of receipts is as follows:

 

But the business of collecting millions of nickels

Refectory (operated by Recreation Commission
employees)

Bicycles (250 of them)

Golf Driving Range (Tee—600 feet in length
with enclosed 350 yard field)

Eighteen—hole Tom Thumb Golf Course

Playhouse

Archery (8 targets)

Tennis Courts (22 courts)

Beginners’ Golf Course (18 holes on thirty
acres)

Table Tennis (20 tables)

Badminton (Io courts)

Shufiieboard (20 lanes)

Canoeing (3 lakes— 12 acres of surface when

completed)
Picnicking (20 acres) ,
Baseball (2 diamonds)
Softball (2 diamonds)
Horseshoes (6 courts)
Soccer (1 field)
Croquet and Roque (4 courts)
Volleyball (20 courts)
Casting
Giant Checkers (3 courts)
Children’s Playground
Gardening (100 acres)
Ceramics Guild
Other arts and crafts
The eight last named activities produce no re-
ceipts, and other receipts are applied to the cost of
supervision and maintenance of the area.

and dimes is only an incident. It was not entered
into as a matter of choice but because of necessity,
on the supposition that there was no other way of
financing the undertaking.

The Fourteen Points

The real purpose of the Recreation Commission
in constructing the sports field can be set‘forth in

these fourteen objectives:

1. A recreation field with abundant facilities, easily
accessible to all
2. Games for adults on the “cafeteria style”
3. A place where the whole family can play together
4. Recreation for groups—industrial, social, or civic
5. Sports suitable for co—recreational groups, especially
youth
6. Games for those of advanced age
7. No waiting in order to play
8. Supervision of children’s play in order to accom-
modate parents at play
9. Emphasis on participation and minimizing “specta—
toritis”
10. Emphasis on wholesome, good times together, not
on winning teams
11. A sports center for adults that pays its own way
12. An environment of beauty in which to play
13. Bicycling, with miles of trails 'but no contact with
motors
14. Night-lighted recreation for those who cannot play
by day or those who cannot endure the heat

The Method

To accomplish these purposes the Recreation
Commission has directed its services toward the
beginner. All necessary paraphernalia is provided

510 ULVL‘IA'AJI'I'S 3Ut3—.-1(.'RE RECRbAI'IOA' FIELD

 

The humble hot dog ioins up for the duration
as a sure-fire morale builder for civilians and
service men—and don't forget the mustard!

so that the player need
bring only himself. Free
instruction is provided
when desired by the individual or special group.
Attendants seek to release the novice from his
feeling of shyness and awkwardness. They try to
draw him into playing the sport where he will feel
most at ease.

Different approaches are tried out with individ-
uals and groups. A special effort is made to make
adjustment to the needs of the soldier and sailor.
Men of the armed forces are drawn into play with
Civilians, There are overnight accommodations at
the Playhouse for 25 cents. They engage in all
sports free of charge.

The hundred thousand war workers in the
metropolitan area are taken into account. Services
are varied to meet the needs of different shifts—
day. swing, and graveyard. ('onsideration is given
to their need for an offset in their leisure time to
the monotonous, repetitive processes of the assem-
bly line. Abundant opportunity is afforded them

which are denied any outlet in their jobs.

Special accommodations are made for large com—
mercial or industrial concerns to facilitate annual
picnics. Over a period of four years the city's
largest department store has used the Airport
Playheld for its employee party. The average num-
ber attending has exceeded 2,000, yet the regular
service to the public has not been interrupted.
Above all, the aim is to create an atmosphere most
conducive to making the sports Field Cincinnati's
Finest “melting pot.”

“Tethered” Landscaping

In laying out and designing the Airport Recre-
ation Field there were certain Fixed limitations.
The lease limits tenure to Five-year terms, subject
to the control of Council. All improvements must
have the approval of the Director of Public Utili-
ties, who has charge of the municipal airport, and

for fresh air, sunshine, ex- I
ercise in the open, and for
expression of those talents

II

'I

CINCINNATI’S ZOO-ACRE RECREATION FIELD 517

the City Manager. Lighting poles and buildings
must be within a short distance of Beechmont
Avenue, the boundary line farthest from the land-
ing field. No'excavation may be made deeper than
a few inches.

Only in the light of these limitations is it pos-
sible to understand certain elements in the design.
For example, the restriction against excavation
made it necesssary to “haul the lakes in” in the
form of 45,000 cubic yards of fill to create the
lake shores, and to pump the water over the top
of the twenty foot levee to supply the lakes.

Beauty with Flexibility-

The sports field was designed on a functional
basis. Design had always to allow for adjustments
to meet current human interests. The field was to
serve a wide variety of individual and group rec-
reational interests. These had to be anticipated
because there was no comparable facility in the
knowledge of those who con-
ceived the pattern. There-
fore, great care was taken in
the location of the permanent
improvements to allow the
maximum fiexibility for de—
tails. This procedure was
highly successful. The history
of the development will show
that very little has had to be '
undone while administration
experimented and tried out public response to a
wide variety of facilities. The first step, which
was to convert the entire 200 acres into a well-
kept meadow of blue grass, proved to be of ines-
timable worth.

The necessity of making all construction on the
work relief program and of making the most of
little is best illustrated by the construction of the
children's playground and swimming pool on the
sports field. It was so located as to make possible

the use of a privately-owned, adjoining, fireproof,”

permanent structure admirably suited to become
the shelter building, two years in advance of the
purchase of the same at 30 per cent of its original
cost.

The manner in which liabilities have been turned
into assets is illustrated by the story of the com-
munity gardens. The Recreation Commission made
available for gardening a considerable portion of
its 200 acres for several years while it negotiated
for an additional hundred acres. Unable to get
possession of the additional property on a perma-

The Airport Playfielcl serves all groups
within the community. It is not pri-
marily tor the family. but is well suited
to its wartime needs; it is not primar-
ily for men in uniform but helps 'draw
them into play with civilians; it is not
primarily for war workers. but serves
them well: it is not primarily for young
people. but is ideal for co-recreation.

nent basis because the authorities did not want
large numbers of players near the Airport landing
field, the Commission secured the area on a year-
to-year basis and established the Community Gar-
dens on the buffer area. Several hundred garden-
ers, under the supervision of the Community Gar-
dens Association, have harvested approximately
$25,000 worth of vegetables each year for nearly
a decade, while at the same time eliminating the

eyesore which otherwise would stand adjoining
the sports field.

Part of a Broad Plan

The Airport sports field has never been allowed
to take- the place of other elements in the municipal
recreation system of Cincinnati. Since the com-
mencement of work on it in 1933 there have been
created the following: 20 neighborhood play-
grounds averaging II acres in size; 5 playfields';
100 ball diamonds; 120 tennis courts; a golf
- course; Cincinnati’s first day

camp; the first municipal rec-
reation building suitable/for
a community center; and the
first regulation outdoor swim—
ming pool. In a ten year pe—
riod the total areas under the
control of the Recreation
Commission have been in-
creased from 358 to more
than 1,000 acres, all of which
have been under improvement for many different
types of facilities.

The development of the whole recreation system
has been kept in balance, while no operating funds
drawn from tax sources have ever been spent on
the Airport sports field. The Airport field is only
one item in a many sided concept for the service of
a great metropolitan area in Ohio and Kentucky.
The Recreation Commission has been severely
limited in its operating budget derived from taxes,
but it has contrived to make improvements running
into many millions of dollars in the past decade by
utilizing three administration devices: the leasing
or transferring of other publicly-owned areas; the
local and Federal work relief program; and the
increase of its earnings on an average of $10,000
annuaUy.

In taking the initiative along these lines, the
Commission has been moved by the conviction that
a great modern city must besomething more than
factories and shops and shipping lines; that it must
render‘other services than collecting waste, pre-

518

venting fires, and protecting lives. The city of to-
day and tomorrow must provide for the people’s
leisure. This is no luxury item; it is a matter of
stem necessity. It is the means of replacement of
certain elements that have been lost for most of
those who live in the city—elements as vital to
community life as vitamins to the body. They have
been lost in the brief course of a few decades while
our people were being uprooted from the farms and
cooped up in factories, offices, and on fifty-foot
lots. In this process the people’s leisure has been
exploited. Their opportunity to create has been
largely lost. Their chance to do things for them-
selves has been replaced with a seat in the bleach-
ers, at the movie, or beside the radio.

What’s Ahead?

The Airport Playtield of 200 acres is only a
fragment of a proposed I, 500-acre layout. This
would provide for hiking, bridle, and bicycling
trails through Fields, hills and dales; for water
sports on the Little Miami and Ohio Rivers; for
camping and picnicking; for wood, metal, ceramics,
and other crafts; for the wide variety of the arts
and sciences; and for other work and play activi-
ties suited to the varied in-
terests, capabilities and skills

of a million people.

Another fragment
of the contemplated
development is to
be seen in the beau-
tiful 23 5-acre Cali-
fornia Day Camp
and Golf Course
three miles away.
Conceived ten years
ago, innumerable
attempts have been
made by the Recre-
ation Commission
to create at least
the outlines of the
whole, but to date
these efforts have
been unavailing.

In 1933, the Com-
mission adopted the
plan to acquire the
entire area as one
of its major under-
takings. The same
year, the Commis-

p

CINCINNATI’S ZOO-ACRE RECREATION FIELD

Hundreds of Cincinnatians make the Play-
field their headquarters for family fun

 

  
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  

sion leased the Water \Vorks area for twenty-
hve years, and began construction of the Califor '
Golf Course and Day Camp.

In 1935, the Commission attempted to acquir
a 1,000-acre riverfront property which would
link together the Airport Playfield and the Cali-
fornia area. The purchase money was available a
a $200,000 gift for parks and playgrounds, but t
Commission could not win the necessary sup
from the Cincinnati Board of Park Commission
ers or the Finance Committee of Council. In 193
and 1941, the second and third attempts wer
made, At this time the Commission is planning .
fourth attempt.

Considered against the background of wh
might be, the Airport Playheld is only the start
ing point. As yet it does not go far. Already th
200 acres are overcrowded. The cyclists can on
go round and round. The skyline trail along
top of the dyke is denied them. The twenty mi
trip along the Little Miami and the Ohio, thro ;
the woodlands and over the picturesque hills wit
their magnificent scenic points, is only a dream
As yet, there is no chance for hunting with bow
and arrow and no good fishing in the streams.

“Cincinnati’s Sportsete '
served 66% more people i
1941 than in 194.9,
which in turn had
shown a 35% h?-
crease in servic
over 1939; whil
1939 had shown .
increase of 100
over that of 193
the first year of oper
ation. The increa .
attendance was s
rectly due to the in
creased facilities an
service made ava'
able for the hrst ti
in 194I, as had be
true of the precedi ,
years. The Airpo '
Playtield continue
to serve almost ev=
type of economic and
social group in the
city. . . .”—From
15th Annual Recre-
ation Report.

Strategy for a United Front

ORESTALLING Delin-
quency Calls for Team
Worlt by the Total

Community. It is not the
job of recreational agen—
cies alone. It requires also
the united cooperation of
schools, churches, homes,
and business interests, as
well as courts and law en—
forcement. It demands
pooling the thoughtful sup-

port of the total community citizenship.

The Moment ls Ripe for Effective Action. Total
communities are now uniting in Civilian Defense.
Citizens are accepting responsibilities.
same spirit youth can also now be given its part
and can achieve dignity in work to promote the
general welfare. The physical fitness program, the
morale program, the salvage program, and espe—
cially Chicago’s own American Youth Reserves
program, are some of the new instruments already
available for this purpose. They can be put into
effect before the tide toward delinquency mounts

to a flood.

There Are Certain Definite Things to Do Now.
It is urged that communities, districts, and blocks
now organized for Civilian Defense make a cam-
paign to arouse public opinion to the threat of de— '
linquency and put that public opinion actively to
work. The community, by accepting responsibility,
will set an example for youth similarly to accept
its responsibilities. To this end your committee

makes the following suggestions:

I. Inspect your community recreational institutions:
parks, playgrounds, community centers of all
kinds. Examine their day-to-day programs.
Encourage and stimulate them to make those
programs more constructively attractive, more
adventurous, fresh, novel, glamorous. Do not
let them grow stale with the “same old stuff.”

Remember that the boy escapes from a dull
play center into the street just as his father
escapes from a dull work place into the tavern.
He wants excitement, new experiences.

2. Work with your public servants: your police;
your school authorities; your court and tru—
ant officers; your social agencies and churches.

These suggestions for ways in which local
communities can combine forces to meet the
problem of rapidly growing delinquency were
prepared by the Special Review Committee of
the Chicago Recreation Commission for pre-
sentation at the city-wide conference held
September 22. I942. to discuss the findings of
the report. Recreation and Delinquency,
recently published by the Commission. Copies
of this report are available at $|.50 each
from Frederick RexI Municipal Reference

Librarian' City Hall' Chicago. Illinois.

In that

might render.

Team up with them. Help
them develop constructive
ways for youth to keep
busy as partners in every
patriotic and community
cause, thereby earning so—
cial status and recognition.

The citizens of Chicago
have elected their own
block captains in charge of
community health and
property protections. The

plan has worked out very successfully. Pos—
sibly the time has now come similarly to elect
a block mother as a companion co-worker
with the block captain, to help organize each
community’s social protections. Her maternal
sympathy and understanding might spread,
city-wide, a pattern of assigning to youth
definite service duties and responsibilities, in
cooperation with all the social agencies of
every section of our city. One of her func-
tions might also be to secure for those youth
community appreciation of the services they

Remember that youth earns self-respect by
winning the respect of others, and that there
is more thrill in being a community hero than
in being a community bad man.

3. Enlist your commercial amusement enterprises:
Movies, billiard halls, skating rinks, dance
halls. Get the proprietors to cooperate with
community sentiment. Help them raise the
tone of their programs, to implant sound ideals
in the minds of young patrons. See that die-
structive and demoralizing centers of recrea-
tion are eliminated.

4. Make use of our new national spirit of unity.
Compose the confusion and disorganization of
youth by combining on the home front to drive
one lesson home and make it stick.

Life has only one foundation principle:
Recreation leaders teach the code of the sports-
man. Schools teach the code of the patriot.
Homes teach the code of the gentleman.
Merchants teach the code of the businessman.
.Labor organizations teach the code of the

( Continued on page 532)

519

Juvenile Delinquency—

And the Wartime Recreation Budget

By JAMES V. MULI—IOLLAND

HILD DELIXQUENCY has increased, according
C to reports, in many cities of the United
States during the past year. The statement
has been made that in New York City there has
been a 14 per cent increase during the first six
months of 1942 over the first six months of 1941.
Many reasons can be given for this increase
which would involve various factors, especially
during wartime. \Ve are aware that many close
family ties have been broken since the United
States entered the war, and also that there is par-
tial lack of parental control and guidance. Fathers
and older brothers have entered the war, and
older sisters and mothers are often engaged in
some kind of war work. It is natural to suppose
that the 14— or I 5—year-old boy of a broken family
is in need of careful guidance during his leisure
time.

We are concerned here with the prevention of
delinquency through play and recreation. It is
gratifying that churches of all denominations are
now providing more recreation and guidance for
the young people of their parishes. Many civic
organizations and boys’ clubs are also doing fine
work but this does not seem enough. There is a
need for wider participation by young people in
social and recreational activities, a need for more
recreation centers, especially during the fall and
winter months, and a need for child guidance.

Have you ever asked yourself the question as to
where thousands, yes, hundreds of thousands of
young pe0ple get their recreation in large cities
during the fall and winter? In the spring and
summer you.will find them in
the parks and playgrounds,
but only a limited number are
discovered participating in
activities out of doors during
November, December, Janu-
ary and February. During
these months young people
prefer to use indoor gymnasia
and to take part in social

520

and physically fit."

"If play and recreation are to be re-
garded as luxuries and non-essentials,”
predicts Mr. Mulholland from long ex-
perience as Director of Recreation in
New Yorl: City's Park Department, "we
are bound to have an increase in iuve-
nile delinquency. Recreation is essen-
tial for a citizenry mentally. morally,

Mr.

plea is for larger recreation budgets.

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
  

events, dancing, basketball, bridge, volleyball, and
handball.

In some cities indoor recreation facilities are
not open, and our young people resort to other
activities and other places for their recreation.
They will go to the movies, which cost money; to
the poolrooms, which cost money; or to the’cellar
clubs, which also cost money. Some will roam the
streets looking for excitement, or will meet a girl
friend in a candy store. If the boy does not have
the money he may commit a crime in order to get
some. It was J. Edgar Hoover who once liste
among the causes of crime the lack of recreatio
facilities in some cities.

The first step which municipal authorities shoul
take is the appropriation of sufficient funds
Open closed recreation facilities where activiti
which would interest youth can be conduct
Participation in a broad recreation program is
important factor, and places should be avail
out of doors and indoors for the widest pos '
participation.

In this connection it may be stated that abo
half million young people attended free p
dances in the parks of New York City durin
past summer. Although we did not have an
propriation for dance orchestras, our problem i
solved by Park Commissioner Robert Moses,
made arrangements for name bands throug
cooperation of the New York Edison Com
Some of the finest name bands in the U
States played in our public parks, including l
Goodman, Cab Calloway, Tommy Dorsey, C
Spivak, and others. When Benny Goodman a
in Prospect Park, 30,000 persons flocked
park either to partici
the dancing or to enj
music as listeners. Tl
tendance at each dance
aged 3,000 persons. Wi
cooperation of the
Cola Company, a progr
concerts and community '
ing was also successful.

Indoors we are having

Mulholland's

JUVENILE DELINQUENCY—AND THE l/VARTIME RECREATION BUDGET 521

cess with dancing to victrola music, square danc-
ing, basketball and similar indoor activities. We
also promote a wide use of the indoor Swimming
pools and keep them open all winter. During
November an indoor swimming carnival at the
\Vest 28th Street Recreation Building attracted
many swimmers and hundreds of spectators. In—
terest in amateur and novice boxing has increased
in many centers, and boxing tournaments and ex-
hibitions have attracted thousands.

These are just a few indoor recreational activi-
ties of interest to youth. Others might include
wrestling, gymnastics, volleyball, handball, group
games, folk dancing, glee clubs, orchestras and the
promotion of social events, carnivals, pageants,
puppet and marionette shows, gymnastic exhibi-
tions, dramatics and parties. Parties should be ar-
ranged for the service men, especially if there is a
military post near-by.

Schools have a great reSponsibility during peace
times as well as war times. Teachers come in
direct contact with the child. They know the nat-
ural leaders; they know the
timid child as well as the

A Park Department puppet show holds an

bully; they can help by suggestion, advice and co-
operation with parents. Attendance oflicers who
know the problem boys and girls, and the school
truants, should get them into recreational activi—
ties during their leisure time.

_ Young people crave interesting activities and
excitement of one kind or another. Let’s give it
to them in a wholesome way during their leisure

' time. Let us plan our recreation program in such

a way that it attracts thousands. But we must
have places indoors and out of doors for wide
participation. Therefore, a survey and cooperation
with civic agencies and newspapers should in some
way bring about the opening of all public recrea—
tion areas in all large cities. The old idea in some
cities that the school custodian owns or has exclu-
sive jurisdiction of school buildings, should be
broken down. School principals in many cities are
steadily becoming more neighborhood—and civic-
minded, and they control the use of the school
building. They are realizing that their job does
not end at 3:30 P. M., but, rather, that their job
deals with the widest and best
possible neighborhood use

audience of young New Yorkers spellbound

lil l'.'\l('l'.\ll‘_N'f (ll mugs
 MAmnzx‘m‘E
THEATRE

ll? l’l ’IL I

 

522 JUVENILE DELINQUENCY—AND THE WARTIME RECREATION BUDGET

of the school building from 9:00 A. M. to 10:00
P. M.

Recreation executives should give thought to
the advisability of offering, for night recreational
use, facilities for those between 14 and 16 years.
At present, many public facilities are open only to
those over 16 years, and as a result the I4- to
16-year-olds roam the streets. In the Park Depart-
ment gyms and play centers of New York City, we
are admitting the 14-year-olds and allowing them
to use some of the evening play facilities. We also
urge truant officers and teachers and parents to
have the children participate in the park recrea-
tion program. Delinquency involves many factors.
Only one has been touched—the leisure-time prob-
lem. But if we keep our young people busily en-
gaged in activities which they enjoy, the problem
will be partially solved.

It has been said that play and recreation should
become part of the war effort. Many consider this
an excellent idea, but the activities should be in-
teresting and of value to the individual as well as
to the nation. Junior Red Cross clubs, physical
fitness clubs, salvage clubs, messenger and hiking
clubs have their place in any recreation program,
especially during wartime. Although they can be-
come part of the war effort, we should not lose
sight of the play element involved in the activities.
The competitive instinct between individuals and
clubs should be encouraged. Children love com-
petition and the spirit of friendly rivalry. There—
fore, any recreational phase of the war effort
should be based on sound fundamental concepts
concerning play and recreation.

We should not lose sight of the old idea of
“Play for the fun of it.” This is, perhaps, the
most important reason why we have such a thing
as play in this life. At the same time, we are all
aware of the mental, physical, and moral values
that accrue to the individual and to the nation
through play and recreation.

Play is a means of giving young people health,
strength, initiative, grit, nerve and courage; better
than all, play helps develop spiritual values. An
activity, therefore, which plays a part in creating
a sound citizenry for the future should be strongly
encouraged and assisted with sufficient appropria-
tions. The fundamentals of good citizenship are
part of the fundamentals of play. The boy or' girl
who is loyal to his team, club, or playground gives
promise of becoming a loyal citizen to his country...
The ideals of fair play, justice, respect for author-

, quents not participating who became delinque

4'.

  
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  

ity, and obedience to rules are taught in the gameo
and activities of all playgrounds and recreation
centers for young people. Children and you
peOple need play, and this universal urge must : "
given opportunity for expression. There must ...
interesting activities in a wholesome environm
for each age group so that all will have an Oppor
tunity for enjoyment.

At new housing developments in boom tow *
our Federal government is making provision f
suitable and adequate recreational facilities. Su
ficient municipal appropriations are being made i
some small boom towns to help solve the delin
quency problem. Are we obtaining adequate m
nicipal funds in large cities to carry on a worth
while recreational program?

Physical fitness, welfare and morale are Ameri
ca’s strength. The use of public recreational facili
ties will develop physical fitness and morale f0
children and adults. The delinquency rate in m 1
cities will drop if facilities are open and if parti'
pation is the key note of an interesting recr
tion program.

Chief findings of a study of juvenile delinquenc
in five Chicago neighborhoods are the following:

More provision is now being made for the sup
vised recreation of boys than of girls. Boys 0
fourteen years do not attend recreation agenc
in as large numbers as do boys under fourteen.

Delinquentsjdo not take part in supervised r
reation as much as do non-delinquents, and w
they do they prefer competitive sports and n
supervised activities such as game rooms.

Delinquents attend the movies more often t
non—delinquents, but all boys and girls spend t
as much time at movies as in supervised rec
tion. In the four neighborhoods with the hi
delinquency rates, all children were particul
fond of radio crime and mystery stories, whi
the neighborhood with the lower delinquency
both boys and girls preferred comedians
variety hours.

Participation in supervised recreation redu
juvenile delinquency. Delinquents who did I
take part in such recreation during the year t
came repeaters 30 per cent more often than t
those taking part. The proportion of non-del'

was three times as high as the similar rate for non
delinquents in the recreation program.

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

‘ANIMALS Are M 3: Hobby,” Gertrude Davies
Lintz, McBride, New York. 301 pp., illus-
trated. $2.75.

Appalachians. “Guide to Paths in the Blue
Ridge,” third edition. Potomac Appalachian Trail
Club, 1624 H Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.

865 pp., maps, accompanying transparent map
case. $3.50.

Army Hospital, Fort Devens, Massachusetts.
Recreation workers of the American Red Cross
unit assisted the hospitalized service men in spend-
ing their enforced leisure constructively. The Mas-
sachusetts Federation of Garden Clubs supervised
the landscaping of the barren grounds; the Massa-
chusetts Audubon Society provided bird feeding
stations and houses. Interested patients were dis-
covered through bird talks. Field trips, birds feed-
ing outside the windows, bird photography, and
the breaking of monotony led to physical improve-
ment of the patients.

Battle Creek, Michigan, has a year—round camp
supported by the Kellogg Foundation. Children
from broken homes remain in camp all winter with
teachers.

Beautification. The Garden Club of the town
of Cornwall, Vermont, made the beautification of
the main street its special conservation project
for the year.

Cacti. “Flowering Plants and Ferns of Ari-
zona,” Thomas H, Kearney, Robert H. Peedles,
and collaborators. Government Printing Office.
Order from Superintendent of Documents, Wash-
ington, D. C. Outstanding are the seventy-six
cactus species.

Coast Guard has asked the Massachusetts Au—
dubon Society to provide more recreation pro—
grams which are essentially educational. Enthusi-
asm for such nature recreation programs must
spread by contagion, since only a year ago nature
programs were struggling for a foothold and today
they have grown to great p0pularity. Good going,
Massachusetts Audubon.

Training personnel in nature recreation is the
big job in the field.

Conservation. A new merit badge pamphlet,
“Conservation,” has been prepared by the Edi—

torial Service, Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park
Avenue, New York City. 56 pp. Excellent pic-
tures and text not only tell the story of conserva-
tion but also explain what you can do, occupations
in conservation work, and the stipulations of the
Hornaday Award granted to scouts for outstand—
ing service.

The scouts now have a library of 105 pamphlets
at 20 cents each, with the exception of the 240-
page insect book which is $1.00.

Conservation Conference. The Second Annual
Conference was held at National Camp, Sussex,
New Jersey, August 10—12. One of the many
points agreed upon was that American youth is
entitled to a program of vital outdoor experiences
instead of merely an unimaginative textbook cur-
riculum. Leadership was considered the weakest
link in the chain.

V. K. Brown and Terry Rose of Chicago repre-
sented the recreation field in what proved to be a
lively conference.

“First Aid for Boys,” Cole and Ernst. D. Ap—
pleton—Century, New York. 190 pp. $2.00.

Forest Fire Prevention, according to Claude R.
Wickard, Secretary of Agriculture, “is a first-line
defense job on the home front.” He gave the slo-
gan, “Careless matches aid the Axis.” In an or-
dinary year, fires sweep 30,000,000 acres of wood-
land, and this year there has already been an epi-
demic of forest fires. It is something for the
“Axis to gloat over” whether started by enemy
action or by the carelessness of a loyal American.
Recreation'ists must be volunteers on the watch.

“Frogs,” W ilbur T. Gracey and Irwin Shappin.
Whitman, Chicago. 46 pp., illustrated. Prepared
by WPA Writers’ Project for Children. 1941. 50

cents.

Gardening. “The Farm Primer, A Manual for
the Beginner and Part-Time Farmer,” Walter
Magnes Teller. McKay, Philadelphia. 266 pp.

$2.50. Plan now for next summer.

Gardening. “Food Gardens for Defense,” M. G.
Kains. Greenberg, New York. 246 pp., illustrated.
$2.00.

( Continued on page 538)

523

Recreation in National and State Parks

The increasing provision of recreation in national and state parks
and forests is illustrated in the extracts presented here from

the 1942 Year Book, PARK AND RECREATION PROGRESS

nE INCREASING PROVISION of recreation in
Tstate parks and forests is illustrated by the

following quotations from the summary of
state park and recreation progress for the year
19.12:

The year's trend in park uses—in addition to
the emphasis on recreation for men in the armed
forces and concentrated industrial groups—was
toward winter sports and more careful planning
and direction of use of all types of areas. Increas-
ing thousands poured into the national, state and
local parks offering any sort of winter Sport. Ski-
ing got the biggest play, and became such an ac-
tivity in the western national parks that it is be-
ginning to affect park planning. Also, attention is
being focused on helping people to get to the parks,
organized games for youngsters, interpretive pro-
' grams for adults, and maneuver tours over mili-
tary parks for men in the armed forces.

The Midwest had six state park naturalists in

50 popular is skiing in national parks in
the West that it is affecting park planning

 

action in 1936, and in 1941 there were eighty, of
whom forty-three were employed by state park
and conservation agencies. These men conduct
nature walks and field trips, museum interpreta-
tions, campfire programs and special nature pro-
grams, and give illustrated lectures. Their facili-
ties, supplied by state and local agencies and or-
ganizations, include natural history museums, na-
ture trails, council rings, amphitheaters, and

lecture halls.

The Federal Recreational Demonstration Areas
continued to become better known to increasing
numbers of people during the year, offering oppor-
tunities for rugged outdoor recreation such as hik-
ing, horseback riding, swimming, pioneer camp—
ing, archery, and general nature observation.

More than 1,000 different organizations used the
organized camps under seasonal and short term
permits to the extent of 600,000 camper-days. The
U. S. Army made extensive use of these areas to
help both its training and recreational programs
for the selectées. Recreational uses included day
use for swimming, picnicking,and similar activities,
and public camp-
ground use by
groups of soldiers
bringing in Army
tents and equip-
ment. At Lake of
the Ozarks Recre-
ational Demon—
stration Area, Mis-
souri, the Army
established and is
operating its own

- rest camp for sol-
diers.

Although recre-
ational area de—
velopment in the
national forests
was much less dur-
ing the last year

than originally planned, emphasis was placed on
improving and expanding facilities helpful to the
war effort. The Forest Service cooperated with
our armed forces and war workers by integrating,
wherever possible, the recreational resources of
the forests with the needs of the war program,
eSpecially for heavy concentration of tr00ps in
training areas and workers in defense industrial
plants.

At the end of the 1941 fiscal year the national
forest recreation system included 2,300 camp-
grounds, 572 picnic areas, 1,381 recreational areas
for both camping and picnicking, 254 winter sports
areas, 54 organization camps, and I I miscellaneous
types of areas. These areas, widely distributed
throughout the national forests, involved only
about 100,000 acres, or one—fifteenth of one per
cent of the total forest acreage, the Forest Service
reported. The winter sports areas increased in
popularity with the installation of many more ski
tows and lifts of improved design, efficiency and
safety, and more facilities within reach of the
lower—income groups.

With America’s entrance into the war, changes
are already evident in the recreation program,
with growing emphasis on relaxing, restoring fun
as an antidote for the increased pressure of heavy
work and as one means of building neighborhood

    
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  

With restrictions on the use of automobiles,
homemade recreation is more in demand. Train—
mg schools for social recreation leaders and for
square danc'e callers in which old-timers teach the
oung ones, neighborhood get—togethers when tra—
itional songs and games are revived, and activi—
ies to enjoy at home seem to be the things the
eople are beginning to request.

Plans for the camps that will be held this sum—
ner (1942) include many individual club and
ounty camps and far fewer three— and four—
ounty district) camps. One—, two—, and three—
ay camps are being set up rather than those run-
ing for a week with the expectation of reaching
1any boys, girls, and women who will be carry—
ng on a major part of the farm work this sum—
ner, who will greatly need a rest, but will be uni
ble to be away from home longer than a day or
erhaps occasionally a much—needed week end.

Recreation in State
Park Areas

Throughout the various
state reports of the Park,
T’arkway, and Recreation—

"The winter snows have come and tilled
once more from sight of eager eyes the
winding trails and wooded streams beside
which restless feet so lightly moved."-

RECREATION IN NATIONAL AND STATE PARKS 525

Copies of the report on parks and recrea-

tion are available at $l.00 each from the
National Conference on State Parks. 90l

Union Trust BuildingI Washington. D. C.

Areas Study many references to recreation appear:
A few of these follow:

Florida. In the planning and development of the
state areas, priority should be given those areas
and facilities which meet mass needs; swimming
and picnicking, followed by the development of
facilities for boating, nature study, music festivals,

pageants, organized camping, and vacation cabins,
more or less in the order given.

Indiana. Present state park exhibits and muse—
ums should be improved and qualified custodians
or attendants provided to build up and develop
the exhibits. New museums or exhibits are urged
at state parks where none now exist. These might
include: (I) geology; (2) arboretum of native

trees; (3) Indian tools and weapons; (4) native
fish and aquatic life.

Kentucky. A thorough study should be made of
the recreation programs of organizations within
communities surrounding state areas to correlate
these programs with the use of the areas and to
stimulate participation and the deveIOpment of a

greater range of opportunities and activities. (This
has since been done in several instances.)

Maryland. A recreational council of citizens
representing all parts of the state should be or-
ganized to promote the acquisition, deveIOpment
and full use of recreational areas.

Missouri. Recreational programs should attempt
to interest the general public, especially youth, in
appreciation and enjoyment of nature. Nature
study should include the fields of biology and
geology. Archeology and local history also should
be subjects for public enjoyment. Assistance in
interesting the public in this type of park apprecia-
tion should be obtained from state leaders such
as are to be found in schools and universities, state
departments and museum and historical societies.

North Carolina. The cities, either individually
or in association, should make careful studies of
their recreational needs, and
there should be prepared for
each city or group of cities a
recreational plan for the pro—

(Conffmwd on page 534)

Something Rich and Strange

HE EMERGENCY of war

has suddenly and chal-

lengineg given play
not only a new impetus
but a new meaning. This
“sea change” is indeed
something rich and strange.
For the first time play’s
curative values are to the
forefront. We are being
given such a chance as we have never had before
of exploring its possibilities as a method of treat-
ing mental and nervous disorders.

Play used to be the “pause that refreshes”; now
it is the pause that stabilizes. Perhaps we don’t
like this subordinating to war ends, but do we as
professionals realize the value of this tremendous
new spotlight on play? Are we going to find ade-
quate lines for the new star? President Roose-
velt thinks play is so important that he exempts it
from the ban on new construction. We spend mil-
lions of dollars on USO and Service Men’s Cen-
ters. General Douglas MacArthur inscribes over
the gymnasium at West Point these words:

“Upon the friendly field of strife are sown the
seeds that upon other fields in other days will bear
the fruits of victory."

A well-known radio commentator says, “Our
men in uniform are fighting for baseball and jive,
for a way of living that these sports personify.” A
play leader who recently went from the Oak Park
Playgrounds to a position as physical director of
three aviation schools in the East sums up his job
this way: “I am not going to rest until I lead a
square dance set into Tokyo.”

Do the men in service appreciate this new atti-
tude? I think their view-
point is surnmed up in a
remark a selectee made the
other day. The writer hap—
pened to be the person who
first suggested the farewell
parties now being given
every group of service men
leaving for camp. When
one young fellow was
handed his cigarettes he
said, “I don’t know how
we can ever thank the

526

Play. given new emphases through
fhe war emergency. presenfs new
and challenging opporfunifies

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK

Superim‘endenf of Playgrounds
Oak Park. Illinois

"The advenl' of war has suddenly fhrown upon
’rhe people of fhe Unifed Sfa’res a responsi-
bility for greafly increased work. Leisure
fime. some of if ’rhe enforced leisure of un-
employmem‘. has vasin diminished. The plan-
ning of appropriafe and saiisfac’rory recrea-
fion seems all the more necessary a’r fhis
moment If we musl' have play *0 comple’re
our lives. and if +he fime in which we may
play is reduced. if is obvious ’rha’r we mus’r
learn and plan fo play beHer while we are
playing." Karl and JeaneHa L. Menninger in
"Bulle’rin of ’rhe Menninger Clinic," May I942.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
    
   
  
  
   
   

community for its thought-
fulness. Something like
this sort of gets you over
that rough spot of leav-
ing.” (They thank us!)

Oak Park is a notable
example of this new atti-
tude towards the impor-
tance of play. The presi-
dent of the village, R. F.
McCaster, orders an exhibition of all the duties of
the civilian defense units. He asks the playgrounds’
superintendent of maintenance, Andrew Watters,
to build a block of houses to be used as the back-
ground for a dramatization of normal home life
and play activities. Twelve thousand peOple test
the capacity of the high school stadium to see the
show. Three neighboring cities, including Chi-
cago, ask the loan of these realistic houses so they
may repeat the program.

But the women of the community are mean-
while making recreation history. The Women’s
Committee of OCD, headed by Mrs. J. H. Pratt
and Mrs. Ben Badenock, ask the writer to con-
duct a recreation institute to train women to car
for young children in case their mothers are call
into defense jobs. The institute is limited to fifty
the enrollment is filled the day the institute Open
in June with an informative lecture by L.
Weir of the National Recreation Association s
the history and background of play. Dr. Pau
Schroeder, head of the Institute of Juvenile R
search, follows next week with an illuminating ta
on the psychiatry of play. The heads of the .7
nursery and the children’s home tell of their 0
jectives and programs; the supervisor of music '
the grade schools lectu
on community singing; t
Chief Forester of Co
County Forest Preser
gives a practical talk c
nature study. The Y.M
C.A. throws open the gy -
nasium for a skillful p
sentation of game leadi
The public library c
tributes an expert lectur
on storytelling. Then t
playground staff take ;

l

SOMETHING RICH AND STRANGE 527

over. There is the theory and practice of social
recreation, games, simple dances, preschool play
classes, and handcraft. The students in the insti-
tute do not get their “diploma” until they have
each served twelve hours in one of the institutions
that participated.

The consequences? A second training institute
started early in October and the playgrounds
alone have some thirty—five volunteers (many of
them college women with valuable specializations)
'working efficiently in the preschool play classes
and dramatic department. Paul V. McNutt’s
Office of Defense Health and Welfare Services
sends a congratulatory letter on the institute and
the preschool classes.

But that is not all. The first institute is doubl-
ing and redoubling itself. One committee is work-
ing on a survey of recreation facilities for work-
ers of two defense plants; another is making a
similar study of tot lots and home play. A third is
contributing a survey on what the sixteen-year-old
girl can do in the war effort. A fourth, with the
aid of the playground staff, is training a group of
' older high school girls who have volunteered for
work on the playgrounds.

One woman in the group interests her young
daughter, an expert in puppetry, in organizing
thirty girls of her age to make dolls for needy
British children; fifty of these gifts are sailing
shortly on the Santa Claus ship to England. An-
other woman, through Infant Welfare, sent twenty
girls to serve as volunteers on the playgrounds
last summer, and, incidentally, they did good work.

The institute members are on the committees
that give the Vic-
tory Belles dances
to the men in ser-
vice and the fare-
well parties to the
selectees. They are
making hundreds
of cakes each week
for the Chicago
Service Men’s
Center. They are
providing trans-
portation for the
playground groups
giving entertain-
ments at military
camps and centers.
A group of young
defense workers

2"
I; i

 

here from the East and working in a torpedo plant
near by asks for recreation facilities; a committee
from the institute is helping in this job. A skilled
handcraft student made the striking emblems that
institute graduates wear.

Periodically the Women’s Committee of the Of-
fice of Civilian Defense is holding coordinating
meetings at which reports are made of every ac-
tivity connected with the war effort.

The playgrounds, the high school, and the
Y.M.C.A. last spring organized physical fitness
classes for men and women at the high school
gymnasiums, At one of the largest women’s
classes (an enrollment of seventy-five) the play-
ground square dancers took over. Sunday hiking
clubs, bicycle clubs, horseback riding groups, and
women’s bowling clubs have been organized and
are prospering. The director of playgrounds has
served on the Sixth Corps Area youth activities
committee and the physical fitness group.

And last, but far from least, the commissioners
on the Playground Board, Dr. Theodore M. Nel-
son and Ashley B. Smith, are a bulwark behind
the playground staff’s efforts. They are backing a
suggestion of the writer that a monument be
placed on one of the playgrounds to Lieutenant
James Orr, the young lieutenant from Oak Park
who, rather than ground his falling plane on a
group of small boys playing baseball on a vacant
lot somewhere in the East, chose to give his life
so that—I like to think—play might go on.

Young children like fhese play safely under super-
vision while fheir mofhers work in war facfories

l

WORLD AT PLAY

 

Ix 1941 the Civic and
Business Federation of
\Vhite Plains, New
York, in cooperation
with the Department of Recreation, sponsored a
large Christmas parade in which musical units and
floats decorated by local merchants were featured.
A novel feature of the parade consisted of huge
inflated figures paraded through the streets. At
City Hall city officials reviewed the parade and a
reception was held. Thousands of children greeted
Santa Claus, and more than 50,000 people from
all sections of the county lined up to see the parade.

A Christmas Parade
in White Plains

 

MUCH interest was
aroused in Tuckahoe,
New York, by the
softball game between
managers of the Eastchester, New York, softball
teams and playground directors on the staff of the
Eastchester Recreation Commission. The game
was staged as a benefit for U.S.O.

Softball Game
Popular

 

 

MORE interest in na-
ture hikes and nature
collections was shown
at the playground cen—
ters of St. Paul during 1941 than at any other
previous time, Exhibits were displayed during the
nature museum contest at fourteen playground
centers. The exhibits included pine cones,
branches, clam shells, magnolia fruits, birch bark,
riker mounts, hornets’ nests, white and Norway
pine, rocks, brocket fungus, birds’ nests, locust
pods, cocoons and leaf specimens. The Colorado
Playground was awarded first place for its out-
standing large display. Exhibits were collected
and mounted by boys and girls on a series of
weekly Saturday hikes—From 194I Annual Re-
port of the Department of Parks, Playgrounds and
Public Buildings, St. Paul, Minnesota.

A Nature Museum
Contest

 

 

BAKERSFIELD, Cali-
fornia, reports that in
1941 after-school play-
grounds were the most
popular of all the recreation facilities and that
children from 10 to 16 were the most frequent

528

After-School Play-
grounds

 

 
  
  
   
   
 
    

users of these playgrounds. Children who came t
these grounds for two months—November a
December— were registered, and a total of 2, o'
different children used the grounds during th'
time. The report states further that the Probati
Department records show fewer juvenile deli1
quent acts when these after-school playground
were open than before they were started.

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  

T1112 Recreation D
partment of Wac
Texas, reports that '
1941 it provided a
rect recreation leadership to I90 church and Su
day school organizations, 18 public schools, a
345 semi-private groups. In addition, 38 grou
were helped with their programs although lead
ship was not furnished, and equipment loans V
made to I 76 groups for their socials and picnics

Serving Local
Groups

THE Eastman Ko
Company, Roche
New York, has iss
a pamphlet entit
“An Elementary Course in Photography,” ba
on the use and construction of the pinhole cam
by means of which rudimentary equipment I
fundamentals of photography may he taught
fectively. This booklet may be secured from I
company free on request.

An Elementary Course
in Photography

IN DECEMBER 19
questionnaire was '
to the Mayors of
municipalities in
official defense areas. The questions asked .
tained to wartime requirements in these citi
hospitals, schools, municipal facilities, transp
tion terminals, recreation facilities and comm
buildings. “It is clear,” states the Architec
Record in reporting on the survey returns, “
the modern community understands its obliga '
to citizens as extending beyond essential uti'
and protective services to the provision of s
ming pools, playgrounds and community bui
ings.”——From The American City.

Needs of American
Cities

WORLD 'AT PLA Y 529

Winners at a Music F estival—The fifty-four
piece orchestra of Cardinal Hayes High School,
New York City, directed by the Reverend John
W. Ziemak, was awarded a silver cup for pre-
eminence in its field at the seventh annual Catholic
School Music Contest Festival held in May, 1942.
Thus the Bronx school is now in possession of the
cup which for two' years has been held by the
Regis High School group of Manhattan who
needed but one more victory to keep it perma-
nently. Both orchestras played the required selec-
tion, “Lustspiel Overture.” The Cardinal Hayes
orchestra played “Andante Cantabile” as its free
choice, while Regis High School performed “Voices
of Spring,” by Strauss.

Community Programs in Detroit—Recrea—
tion programs were presented in forty-nine neigh-
borhood centers to show residents the types of
activities available at the center, and to show par-
ents how their children spend their leisure time.
In addition to the publicity value of the programs
in acquainting thousands of spectators with the
activities of the department, each provided an eve-
ning’s wholesome entertainment that was eagerly
awaited.

The 20,478 spectators were entertained by 6,677
participants with dances of all kinds, drills, march—
ing, calisthenics, boxing, tumbling, relays, group
games and team games, plays, songs, band num-
bers, model airplane flights, and many other activi-
ties conducted at the center.

Where pools were operated in connection with
the center, swimming demonstrations were also
on the program.—From the 1941 Annual Report
of the Detroit, Michigan, Park and Recreation De—
partment.

The Santa Monica Players Club—“In the loft
of a barn a group of starry-eyed youngsters gath-
ered six years ago to form a little theater with lit—
tle more to work with than their own histrionic
abilities and an experienced director, Harold Clif-
ton. Those were turbulent years; the depression
was in full swing. Building their own sets, bor—
rowing lights, borrowing a theater, even borrow—
ing talent from other groups, the Players won their
‘spurs.’ Today, incorporated, controlled by a board
of directors and supervising director, they are the
recognized little theater group of the city of Santa
Monica.”

This little theater group has opened its seventh
season with “The Man Who Came to Dinner”

0 I
nap-1 nn nanqy-rv n Loan-urn‘intv (ILA!!! 05+ “FM‘I, “all “1"

 

DIAMOND

Products at the Front

Diamond tool steel that used
to go into the famous pitch-
ing horseshoe line is now

going into tools for victory.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

school posts. The Department of Playgrounds and
Recreation sponsors the Club.

The Players Club is now looking forward to the
time when it will have its own little theater, and a
percentage of every dime of revenue received is
being earmarked for the building fund.

A “Recreation for Total Victory” Conference
—-T he subject of the eighth annual conference held
under the auspices of the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission will be “Recreation for Total Victory.”
From 9:30 A. M. on December II, 1942, when a
special demonstration of home play in wartime will
be conducted by the PTA, through the dinner
meeting at 6:30 P. M., with Dr. C. A. Dykstra,
president of the University of Wisconsin, as the
main speaker, delegates from many organizations
will discuss mutual problems at general sessions
and group meetings. Exhibits and demonstrations
will bring home to the citizens of Chicago the im—
portance of recreation in wartime and in the peace
to follow.

As a part of the program a youth recreation
dinner will be held. This will be a special meeting
of the Senior American Youth Reserves, ofhcial

Youth Activities Program, Chicago Metropolitan
A «0.. MPH

530 THE BARRE JUNIOR SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA

 

A Perfect Christmas 
For Young People

    

STORY PARADE

Are you having trouble deciding on a Christmas
gift for your classroom, your scout troop, your
library, or your children?

STORY PARADE is your answer. This maga-
zine appeals to all children between eight and
twelve because it covers a wide variety of in-
terests—story, drama, verse, picture, song, craft.

We’re offering you special gift prices: one gift
subscription $2.00, two gift subscriptions $3.50,

three gift subscriptions $5.00, each additional
subscription $1.50.

Write now to

STORY PARADE. 70 Fifth Ave.. N. Y. C.

Nineteenth Annual Soap Sculpture Competi-
tion—Announcement has been made of the
nineteenth annual Soap Sculpture Competition
which will close May 16, 1943. Detailed informa-
tion may be secured from the National Soap
Sculpture Committee, 80 East 11th Street, New
York City.

Can You Spare Any Athletic Equipment?—
Miss Marjorie G. Hugo, Third Officer, WAAC,
School Recreation Supervisor, Army Post Branch,
Des Moines, Iowa, writes that there is need at the
post in Des Moines for athletic equipment such as
baseketball goals and volleyball standards (at least
twelve pairs of standards are needed). Other sup-
plies which can be used to advantage include balls,
table tennis tables, shuffieboard sets, and badmin-
ton equipment.

The Physical Training Department of the
\Vomen’s Army Auxiliary Corps, lacking funds
with which to buy supplies, asks that any college,
school, or recreation department with equipment

it is not using and can spare, communicate with
Miss Hugo.

The Barre Junior Symphony Orchestra

(Continued from page 493)

PART IV

(a) Pizzicato Gavotte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Joha»ues Pache
Esther Davidson and Annie Lasorsa, violins, with

Eloise McCarty at the piano

(b) The Young Prince and Princess. . .Rimsky-Korsakov
Margaret Gover, flute, with Eloise McCarty
at the piano

PART V
(a) Serenade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Erm'co TascHi
Vocal Soloist, Mrs. Evelyn Newhall, with orchestra
(b) Lassie 0’ Mine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Edword I. Wait
Olga Papandrea, violin, with orchestra
PART VI
Orientale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cesar Cw"
Virgilio Mori, violin soloist, with orchestra '
PART VII
(6) Campus Pride March . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..DeLamatar
(b) Marchine Feet March . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..DeLa.mater
' Barre Junior Symphony Orchestra '

The Barre Junior Symphony never charges forI
its concerts. Members bring twenty-five cents to
each rehearsal for the purchase of music. Dr.
Jarvis owns twenty-five violins, ten Violas, twenty
cellos, and one double bass, two oboes, one English
horn, eight flutes, twelve Clarinets and twelve
sax0phones. These instruments are loaned to the
boys and girls, and Dr. Jarvis furnishes an instruc-
tion book and gives lessons, all without charge.

  
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  

Dr. Jarvis’s musical appreciation began back i
his boyhood home; his mother was a music teache
and his father an excellent pianist. One of h'
earliest memories is of the family group gathere
around the piano on a Sunday afternoon singi
hymns and Stephen Foster songs. It was on]
natural that he should learn to play the piano
then followed the guitar so that he might play i
the high school banjo and mandolin club; th
the cello, that he might be a member of the high
school orchestra. One instrument followed th
other, with his increasing love of music.

The orchestra includes children as young
twelve, who are, perhaps, appearing with the or-
chestra for the first time, high school boys an
girls, and one or two older musicians who like t
sit in to give the youngsters a helping hand. The
children are the sons and daughters of granite
quarrymen, stonecutters, polishers, store clerks,

laborers, lawyers; in fact, they come from all walks
of life.

Dr. Jarvis likes to reminisce about his boys and
girls and tell of their present interests and careers.

CHRISTMAS IN DEARBORN 531

Christmas in Dearborn

HE CITY or DEARBORN, MICHIGAN, marked its

1941 Christmas season with an almost life-
size outdoor Nativity scene set up on the City Hall
grounds. A singing program was presented at the
site for three successive evenings before Christmas.
The Department of Recreation arranged the pro-
grams with the cooperation of choral groups in
the city. '

On Monday the Girls Club Chorus presented the
First evening of Christmas music, after a member
of the recreation department welcomed the citi-
zens and spoke briefly of the holiday season.

The vested children’s choir from St. Alphonsus
Church sang on the following night, and on Christ-
mas Eve the choir of the First Congregational
Church presented its program. That evening a
six—year-old girl who had been stricken with in—
fantile paralysis the previous year turned the
switch to light the two large decorated evergreens
in front of the City Hall.

The Nativity scene, a detail of which is repro-
uced as the frontispiece of this issue of RECREA-
ION, was designed and painted by a local artist
nd was constructed by various departments of the
ity. The masonite figures were cut out in silhou-
tte and illuminated by indirect lighting.

' ost of them, after high school days, drop their
usic or keep on merely for their own pleasure.
r. Jarvis likes to tell of one of his boys, who,

fter being drafted, became an assistant instructor

n the Bugler’s School. Another, an Italian boy,
a violinist in the Marine Orchestra. The present

irector of the local high school orchestra and

and is one of Dr. Jarvis’s boys. The girls are
ow supervisors of music in public schools, and
v0 are church organists and choir directors.

“Sometimes these young people try to thank me
or what I have done,” says Mr. Jarvis, “but I
lways tell them they do much more for me than

do for them. I enjoy most taking some person

ho has a really splendid personality but an in—
eriority complex, teaching him to play a musical
nstrument, and then, step by step, bringing him
efore the public, first, as a member of the orches—
ra, then in ensemble groups, next as a soloist
' ith the orchestra and finally, as guest soloist. To
ee him lose his inferiority complex and blossom

 

ACC-AMERIGAN
SQ%RE DANGES

MLLEWNDF “AL MULLER;
E) I! m (Mn 
E F  Drum-u rat Squirt

. Dances Jilso [ems Used m.
want} and all“. ‘
H. ... ‘ .

50¢

Wt“

LL - PIOHEE
PORN c oooo gnu-q

Includes Music, Calls, Diagrams and
Directions, also Glossary of- Terms
Used in Square Dances, Quadrilles
and Lancers. Practical for Piano,
Violin, Mandolin.

“Everything You Need” for Square Dancing
Sent postpaid upon receipt of 50c.

PAULL-PIONEER MUSIC CORP.
1657 Broadway New york City

out into the real personality which is rightly his,
is reward enough for me.”

Dr. Jarvis will tell you with a smile that when
a new instrument is needed he just works a little
overtime at the office, putting that money aside
for the time when there will be enough to purchase
the needed instrument. It is jokingly said of him,
that if there is a crowd of patients in his ofhce
waiting for medical attention and a little boy comes
in with a violin tucked under his arm, he is next
in the private office to have his musical ills
adjusted.

A Christmas Story Comes to Life
(Continued from page 488)

knees. Cover bare arms with long white stocking
or plain white material. For the stiff white collars
(see picture) cut large circles of material with
holes in the center to fit the children’s necks.
Open the collar at the back. Several thicknesses
of tarletan will be found most effective for the
collars.

The priest’s robe is similar but of a different
color, perhaps red or black. Instead of a collar he
may wear a cape.

532 “DEAR JOE”

Say “Merry Christmas”

with RECREATION

THIS YEAR, in choosing our Christmas

gifts, we’ll all want to make every penny

count by selecting gifts which will be useful

as well as attractive.

Have you thought of giving that relative or
friend of yours who is a recreation worker, a
teacher, or a club leader a year’s subscription

to RECREATION as a Christmas present?

We’ll be glad to send a gift card to the recipi-
ent of your .gift.

Subscription $2.00 per year

0 NATIONAL RECREATION

A S S O C I A T I O N
315 Fourth Ave., New York City

 

"Dear Joell
(Continued from page 497)

principals and securing the “go-ahead” signal from
the school board, we launched the program. Luck-
ily, the school schedules worked out so that we
could spend a whole morning or afternoon at a
school and teach all the seventh graders which
usually number about 200 per school. We usually
have four classes averaging 45 in a class and meet
them once a week in their regular gym period.
They don’t have regular “phys ed” teachers in
any junior high except one and she has been very
cooperative. You know her—Miss Leslie—who
used to live on High Street there by the drug
store. So we fit into the program just fine.
Joe,'it’s such fun to watch them. They giggle
when we do grand marching and have to hold
hands, and the first time they dance with each
other you’d think they were enduring an air raid.
You see, we teach the boys and girls separately
until they learn the basic steps and a simple rou-
tine like four steps, two boxes and four steps, and
then we let them try it with a partner. Then
learning the two-step comes next and practice in

new routines putting walking steps, boxes (fox
trot), and two-steps together.

The most fun comes in teaching the correc‘
dance pasition, and how to “cut-in” and asking
girl to dance and things like that. They real
practice them too and always remember (whe
not speechless) to say “Thank you” and return
girl to her seat. W e’re going to do a receiving lin
procedure next week which should be fun. Th
love mixers (as you did after you learned the
were fun), and doing robber dances with chairs an
trinket and lemon dances is remarkable to watch
This is one activity that gives you a sense of ac
complishment and achievement.

  
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

\Vell, how’s army life, Joe? I know you’re gla
now you finally broke down and admitted yo
wanted to learn to dance. A good dancer at th
soldiers’ dances here in town is pretty popular an
I know it’s the same where you are.

Let me hear from you whenever you have tini
I saw your Mom the other day and she said b
sure and write you—so I did.
Love,
PATTY.

Strategy for a United Front

(Continued from page 519)

worker. Police, lawmakers, and courts teach tl
code of the citizen. But all codes, in the end, a
based on the disciplines and the integrities whi
stem from the code of the churchman. All cod
get back to the fundamental moral law.

The compensation for the blood and tears
times like these is that they bring us all humbly
our knees again in renewal of our pledges to
faith and our devotion, in that freedom of wars
for which America goes to war. Combining
bring that lesson home to youth, we shall
firm the integrities and the disciplines which
the final correctives of delinquency of either ju
rules or adults.

A Chinese New Year's Party

(Continued from page 496)

games—all pastimes enjoyed by the Chinese. 0
of their favorites, according to Lin Yutang, is
game in which words are formed by starting a 11
word with the last syllable of the preceding wo
named. For instance, the host gives the wo
dread-ful; the person to his left, ful-fill; the nex
fil-a-ment; and so on.

A CHINESE NEW YEAR’S PARTY 533

Greeting the Illustrious New Year

i As midnight approaches, you will want to have

ready plenty of noisemakers, confetti, and stream-
ers. Firecrackers (if you can salvage any from
Fourth of July stocks) thrown into an open lire
are especially suitable. According to Chinese super-
stition, the noise will frighten away evil spirits—
provided you have placed a fire screen in front of
the fireplace.

Once the racket has subsided, finish the evening
by matching proverbs. Slowly read aloud Chinese
proverbs and maxims and see who can first give
an English equivalent or near equivalent, or for a
variation of this game have teams act out the
English proverbs, giving the Chinese versions as
hints to the audience.

Open your gutters while it is fine, 'you will thus
anticipate a heavy shower. (Make hay while the
sun shines.)

 

|
* * >l<

When the boat is in midstream it is not the time
, to stop her leaking. (A stitch in time saves nine.)

41:4

‘ Young men don’t laugh at gray hairs; how long
‘ does the flower bloom? (Beauty is only skin deep.)

=I< * a:
A small man who is well educated can be em-
ployed by the government; what is the use of a

itall man who knows nothing? (Never judge a
book by its cover.)

***

l Don’t meddle in matters that are of no account,
the sun is not always in the zenith. (Time and tide
wait for no man.)

* * *

If a man has no forethought, sorrow is close at
hand. (Look before you leap.)

***

What is the use of directing your thoughts too
high, where the land is high the water flows off.
(A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.)

***

Good and bad fortune befall man when least
expected; the sky is sometimes clouded over, at
others bright with sunshine. (Every cloud has a
silver lining.)

>1: * - at:

If you do good to a man, calamity will not come
upon you. (One good turn deserves another.) _

5W

. ll/©0ff aw ATHLETIC

WW EQUIPMENT

Mm n, w. I ran Runner tour. 1600 E. 25th St. 3.95 Angzlcs. Bali!
Branclr 180 N. Wanker In- 9mg... III.

 

When you make friends, you must be careful
the first time you meet, then even to old age you
will not complain of the friendships made. (It is
better to be sure than sorry.)

***

Do not depend upon your present good fortune;
you must anticipate the time when it will leave

you. (A penny saved is a penny earned.)

* * *

So ends this Chinese party, with your un-
worthy scribe’s superior wishes for a most exalted
evening and a Happy New Year!

“Stunts and Entertainments”

By Ethel Bowers

0 Now available-—No. 2 in the "Parties
Plus" series by Ethel Bowers of the
National Recreation Association.

 

Here are amusing stunts for all oc-
casions—activities requiring no pre~
paration; simple activities requiring
some preparation; short stunts; sug-
gestions for pageants from drama-
tizations; sketches and playlets; and a
variety show ideas.

In planning parties either for civilians
or service men, this booklet will be
invaluable.

. . . Price 50 cents

444

I National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York City I

 

334 CHRISTMAS GAMES

Junior Arts and Activities

for the elementary

teacher
and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils
0

THE MOST COMPLETE
EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these
two monthly
publications

can help you

0
Send 25c for Sample Copies to

Junior Arts and Activities
740 Rush Street. Chicago. Ill.

 

Christmas Games
(Continued from page 489)

clear varnish. When this has dried, smooth lightly
with steel wool and add another coat of shellac or
varnish. This will keep your dominoes in good
condition through many holiday seasons.

Christmas seals pasted on the dominoes should
be shellacked or varnished in the same manner to
preserve them.

After the pictures have been painted or pasted,
place small figures in the corners to correspond to
the number of dots on each domino. Perhaps the
following symbols could be used for the respective
numbers:

(1) Pine branch

(2) Christmas stocking
(3) Holly Sprig

(7) Christmas package
(8) Treeornament
(9) Christmas tree

(4) Mistletoe (10) Candle
(5) Santa Claus (11) Ball
(6) Wreath (12) Star

The game is played with the regular domino
rules.

Christmas Wrappings

Place a small Christmas gift in a box that can
be easily handled._ \Vrap it in Christmas paper

  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
    
   
    
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
 

until there are ten Or more layers of wrappi 7
each securely and separately sealed or tied.

Players are seated in a circle and the parcel '
started around as someone plays the piano. VVh
the music continues the parcel moves from hand
hand, but the minute the music stops the per
holding the package unwraps one layer of pa
As soon as the music starts again after a f
seconds, the parcel must be passed along, contin
ing in the same manner until at last it is unwrapp
completely. The player uncovering the 'pack
itself wins the gift.

Christmas Wreath

Place a large Christmas wreath on the floor
that a circle of about ten people can stand arou
it with hands joined. In the center of the wr
place Christmas packages numbering one less th
the persons in the circle.

The players march around the circle to the tu
of “Jingle Bells” until the music st0ps, then th
all grab for a package from the wreath. The .-
son emerging without a package leaves the circl
The game continues in this way, the leader remo
ing one package each time, until there are left on
two players and one package. Blindfold these tx
players before they start to march and let th
grope for the last package in the wreath.

Recreation in National and State Par
(Continued from page 525)

vision of parks and playgrounds. This plan sho .
be based on careful studies of population, locati
and extent of existing and proposed recreatio
facilities, and other pertinent factors.

At each state park and state recreational a
there should be instituted, under competent -.
ership, a carefully planned program that will '
terest the general public in the appreciation
enjoyment of nature, portray and interpret nat
history, and promote better knowledge and use
the recreational resources of each area.

North Dakota. It is recommended that a spe
recreation director ultimately be employed to as
in the use of state parks and to cooperate in
operation of community parks.

Tennessee. Institutions of higher educat
should include advanced courses for the train'
of leaders in the field of recreation. Wherex
possible, leadership should be provided at e
recreation area for the "programming and directi
of activities.

West Virginia. The various municipalities shoul

PECIAL CHRISTMAS OFFER

 

Get these
W0 MAGAZINE - 5):; ONE

REGULAR SUBSCRIPTIONS:

HILE ' t 1 t h '1'-
we mus c u C ml 1 One-Year Subscription (12 Issues)

tary Victory with one for “RECREATION” ........... .. $2. 00
hand, the other must keep a firm P L U S

grasp Of the civilization “’8 Set One_Year Subscription  Issues)
out to save. . . . for “THE AMERICAN FAMILY" $3. 00

These “3'70. pu§llcatlon§ are_ ma!“ Total Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5. 00

helping to preserve those Ideals .00
and democratic Principles that You Get  for  . . 
have always characterized
American Homes and Recrea-

r--------------------------------------------------‘

R E C R E A T I O N

The Magazine of Play and Recreation,
315 Fourth Avenue,

New York City, N. Y.

Enclosed please Find Check—Money Order—amounting to $ . . . . . . .,.,
for which please send me the next 12 issues of “REQREATIQN
and “THE AMERICAN FAMILY,” as per your spec1al Combina-

tion in Family and Group activ-
ities. . . .

0n the Editorial Staffs of these

two Magazines are the leading

authorities in the fields of Rec- tion Offer,

reation and American Family Name:

Life, who will keep you well in-

formed on these timely and vital Street:

subjects. City: State :

r-----------
h-----------

535

 

5.56 EACH CANDLE LIGHTS ANEW!

“The Christmas Book”

T is not too early to begin your planning

for home and community Christmas cele-
brations. And here is a booklet for recrea-
tion leaders, teachers, club leaders, and
others who wish to plan special Christmas
programs and to inject into their celebra-
tions something of' the charm and beauty
associated with the old traditional Christ-
mas customs.

In the various articles which make up the
booklet will be found novel ways to dis-
tribute gifts at Christmas parties; sugges-
tions for enlivening the program of Christ-
mas caroling; and many interesting ideas
from the Christmas customs of other lands

for party themes, decorations, and re-
freshments.

Order your copy now

Price 50 cents

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE New YORK CITY

be made conscious of their individual responsi-

bilities with respect to the development of recrea-
tional areas within municipal bounds.

Consideration should be given to the broader
use of existing areas by organized groups as well
as by individuals, and the possibility of serious
park use by such groups should be stressed, par-
ticularly with respect to nature study. An inter-

esting and instructive program should be provided
for park visitors.

Special mention is made repeatedly in the state
reports of the need for developing recreation areas
and facilities for camping, winter sports, water
sports, and picnicking. Repeatedly, too, the special
need for caring for Negro citizens is mentioned,
especially in the southern states. The use of water
areas—lakes, streams, ocean frontage, and reser-
‘voirs—is frequently recommended. Several states
called attention to the need for the development of
recreation programs and the acquisition and de-
velopment of areas and facilities in the municipali-
ties and in several cases cooperation between state
and municipal authorities is recommended.

 

   
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
    
    
   
   
   

Each Candle Lights Anew!

(Continued from page 492)

the wick upward as in the cardboard container.
Knot it at the bottom and tie it at the top, so that
it runs through the vertical center of the can.

Fill the can with the melted tallow, then after
the wax has hardened in place set the can in
pan of hot water to melt the wax away from th
sides. Remove the molded candle and place it in
your holder.

You might decorate this type candle by pourii
silver or gold radiator paint over the top, allowing
it to creep down the sides.

Muffin Candles

If you find a few extra candle ends simply melt
them down in an old pan or glass jar placed in
boiling water, and pour the tallow into muffin tins.
A string wick can be fastened to the bottom of tl .
tin with scotch tape, then held vertically as th
wax is poured around it. Remove the new cand 1*
from the muffin tins by heating slightly after th
wax has hardened.

These smaller and flatter candles are picturesqu
on mirrors as a table centerpiece. Or Hoat then
in a shallow bowl of water as they’re burning.

\Vhichever way you renovate your second-ban
candle ends, you can add your own variation
Melt them and make them and murmur with g1"

When Schools Are Used as

Community Centers

(Continued from page 511)

the principal and also the engineer, janitor, 0
bath attendant regarding the facilities the Depar
ment of Parks and Recreation has arranged to u
and the hours during which the groups will be i
the building. This permit is checked with the
hon copy held by the Department of Parks a
Recreation, is entered on the records, and then file

If for some reason the school is not available f c
the use of the Department of Parks and Recr
tion, the district director is notified and anoth
school is selected. In the event of cancellation i
the school for an afternoon or evening, or in ca
the entire permit must be canceled, the distri
director is notified so that the recreation instruct
may be assigned elsewhere. All cancellations a
entered on the records and filed.

Time cards are submitted to the Department c
Parks and Recreation by the engineer, janitor, 0
bath attendant on duty. (These workers are as

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 537

signed by the Board of Education.) The Depart-
ment makes up a pay roll from these time cards
every two weeks and sends it to the Board of
Education. An appropriation to cover the cost of
the engineer, janitor, or bath attendant pay roll is
included each year in the budget of the Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation.

Cardboard cutouts of Christmas symbols—bells,
stars, candles, etc.—may be substituted for. the
packages.

Military Maids on the Home Front
(Continued from page 499)

formal unless girls are notified of a special
occasion.

9. No soldier will be permitted to ride to town
on the bus with girls returning from Benning. No
exceptions will be made.

IO. All girls going by bus to dances at Benning
must return on the same bus. Girls having dates
and transportation to and from their homes are
expected to notify’ the Official Hostess.

II. After having attended twelve dances girls
are entitled to wear the official Columbus Military
Maid pin.

12. Any registered girl may bring a girl friend
or visitor if the office is notified in advance.

The most recent action taken by the Official
Hostess and her chaperones is an appointment of
thirty Leader Girls to assist the chaperones. They
enlist new girls and help to keep up the enthusiasm
and morale of the Maids, even as we seek to build
morale-among the men.

Following are the six ways in which the Leader
Girls have pledged to help:

I. By assisting chaperones in enlisting new
members and enlarging their own groups to ten or
fifteen active girls.

2. By contacting girls; helping to stress to the
others the necessity of knowing in advance the
number of girls attending a dance; educating each
Military Maid to have some one take her place if
she finds unexpectedly that she cannot attend a
dance. "

3. By volunteering wherever the group is called
on for some special duty. (Example: when two
buses are going out to the Post and the majority
of girls want to go to one service club, thereby
leaving the other group of men with only a hand-
ful of partners, the Leader Girls will volunteer to
go to the second club and take others with them.)
‘ 4. By setting examples of good sportsmanship,

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter

        

MAGAZI N ES

The American City, 'October 1942

Dead Leaves, a Source of Rich, Valuable Humus for
City Parks, by Richard Walter

In the Midst of War, 'England Plans for Better Post
War Communities, by Henry Strauss, M. P.

Girl Scout Leader, November 1942

The Wing Scout Program. (New program for air-
minded girls)

Journal of Health and Physical Education, October 1942

The Arts of War, by Robert 0. Parks, Purdue Uni-
versity. (The values of a puttering shop for ordi-
nary folks)

Health Education Activities of the Government

Water Pageants, by Grace B. Daviess

National Music Council Bulletin, August 1942
Does Music Speed Up Production in Industry?

Parks and Recreation, September-October 1942
(Entire issue devoted to park planning)

Physical Educator, October 1942

California Revises Its Physical Education Law, by
Charles W. Davis

Camping and the Public School, by Ralph Ballin

Combating Juvenile Delinquency with Recreation, by
Granville B. Johnson

Mental Health in Restricted and Corrective Activi-
ties, by Edith M. Lindsay

Team Ganies and World Citizenship, by Gertrude E.
Moulton, M. D.

Research Quarterly, October 1942

The Effects of Hot and Cold Shower Baths Upon
Adolescents Participating in Physical Education
Classes, by A. C. Robbins

The Relationship Between Personality Adjustment

and Achievement in Physical Education Activities,
by Abraham P. Sperling, Ph. D.

Safety Education, November 1942

A Score for Safety, by L. W. Welbourne. (Safe play
for grade school children)

Scholastic Coach, October 1942

Building a Marching Band, by J. Maynard Wettlaufer

High School Calisthenic Program, by A. J. Wyre

Volleyball for 100 (Women) Students, by Josephine
Burke

School Activities, October 1942

Stage Action Streamlined, by Edward Palzer. (Sug-
gestions for smoother productions)
Suggestions for a Photography Club, by Irma Regan

PAM PH LETS

High School Victory Corps prepared by U. S. Office of
Education. Complete manual of the program. Victory

Corps Series No. 1
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.

Price 15 cents

How to Read the News prepared by U. S. Ofiice of Edu-
cation. Education and National Defense Series,

Pamphlet No. 16 _
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.

Price 15 cents

538 IT'S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

 

Municipal and County Parks
in the United States 1940

PARKS are essen-
tially land areas dedicated and developed
for recreation use. This report, accordingly,
is a record of the extent to which hundreds
of cities and counties have prepared them-

‘ selves to serve the leisure-time needs of
their citizens. The. study was conducted by
the National Park Service with the coopera-
tion of the American Institute of Park Ex-
ecutives and the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, under the direction of George D.
Butler.

Order a copy of this important document
so that you will have readily available the
record of park developments in approxi-
mately 1,500 communities with 2,500 or
more population.

Price $1.50

NATIONAL RECREATION

A S S O C I A T I O N
315 Fourth Ave., New York City ‘_J

 

kindness, and observance of rules and regulations;
helping to inform newcomers, etc.

5. By helping us keep up with changes in home
and business addresses, telephone numbers, girls
leaving the city, and “casualties from matrimony,”
etc.

6. By introducing boys to new girls; coming to
the aid of a friend who is unhappin attached to an
uncongenial partner.

Each of the four areas of Fort Benning has a
service club with its own hostess. Two area dances
are planned each week on the Post by the Official
Hostess in Columbus and the hostesses at Fort
Benning. In addition to the regular dances special
affairs are planned for individual companies or of-
ficer candidate classes. All Military Maids may
also go to the six USO dances which are given in
their own buildings each week. In the USO's
where they do not have dances the girls help to
entertain at parties.

Altogether about a thousand Military Maids are
needed to “supply the demand” and the files must
be up to date at all times. It is significant to note
that in the two years during which the \Vomen’s
and Girls’ Committee has been in charge of this
phase of war work, we have not had to recall a
single pin because of unbecoming conduct,

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
    
   
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  

l’r's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 523)

Guyot, Arnold (1807—1884). One of twelve
children of French Hugeuot stock, Guyot was
graduated from a European university and then
spent his summers touring Europe with young
boys. He studied both physical geography and
people in his travels.

Because of a political upheaval he sailed for
America in 1848, without knowledge of English.
Here he found security with twenty-one other ex-
patriates in the home of his countryman and friend.
Louis Agassiz. Soon lecturing all over the stat
for the Massachusetts Board of Education, Guyot
compiled a series of six graded school geographies.
These humanized the study of geography.

Guyot believed in observation in the field. Play-
ground leaders who are sensitive to the features 0
the earth and who inspire others to widen their
universe are unconscious followers of Guyot.

Nature Hobbies. “Byways to Adventure,” Ed-
win Way Teale. Dodd, Mead, New York. 1942.
220 pp. $2.75. Fifteen nature hobbies and the ac-
complishments of amateurs should suggest a n
refuge from stress and strain.

Play in Education
(Continued from page 509)

and momentous work. These two that have bu'
up all the tribes and nations of the world, st'
pursue their joint vocation in our children’s gam
we speak of political rings and social circles; tl
ring game is the second circle through which t
citizen, or belonging, instinct extends, as t
family circle is the hrst. It is of vital interest
the State that its children be given full opportun'
to form these infant commonwealths and to Sit
and dance themselves into the spirit of them.

As to the particular story or drama to be
acted in the ring games, the children themselv
are not particular so long as they have the t
essentials, the circle and the dance and song. T
dramas of love, or of trades or household occul
tion, even of medieval mythology, which the t
ditional ring games represent, are survivals
grown—up games and dances. There is opportuni
here —which F roebel has well made use of—
select those stories which we think most wor
telling and to eliminate those that are stupid
convey an undesirable suggestion.

Norm-2: COpies of Play in Education are available fro:
the National Recreation Association at $1.80 each.

 

Table Tennis

By Jay Purves. Barnes Dollar Sports Library. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

WITH TABLE TENNIS becoming an increasingly popular
sport, this book with its description of fundamental
techniques and principles of winning play will find a
warm welcome. The book, which contains the ofiicial
' rules of table tennis, will be useful for players and
coaches alike.

Recreation and Delinquency

By ‘Ethel Shanas and Catherine E. Dunning, through
projects of WPA. Chicago Recreation Commission.
Obtainable from Frederick Rex, Municipal Reference
Librarian, City Hall, Chicago, $1.50.

THIS IS A REPORT of the recently completed three-year
survey of juvenile delinquency conducted for the Chi-

cago Recreation Commission under the supervision of its
Committee on Recreation and Juvenile Delinquency. The
study was not undertaken to prove that recreation is a
preventive of or a cure for juvenile delinquency, but was
designed to discover the relationship between the two.
The survey covered the recreational activities of 15,000
boys and 8,000 girls, ten to seventeen .years of age, in five
neighbor-hoods four of which had delinquency rates above
and one below the average for the city. The findings are
significant for the entire recreation movement, and recre—
iation workers will wish to include this book in their
libraries.

'Bowling-j—Science and Administration

By Ferd John Lipovetz. S and H Sports Shop, La
Crosse, Wisconsin. $2.75.
THE SCIENCE AND ADMINISTRATION of bowling are pre-
sented in this book in the compilation of which prac-
ticability has been the watchword. Many bowling organi-
zations have helped in providing the material and pictures.
Rules and regulations are given, and there are simple
score sheets, publicity material, and constitutions for
bowling leagues.

Sing tor Victory

Edited and arranged for voice and piano by Murray
Chase. Obtaina‘ble from Murray Chase, 609 West 137th

Street, New York. $.35.

HE SONGS IN THIS BOOK—and there are about thirty-

five of them—have been classified under “Songs of the
United Nations,” “Songs of Freedom the World Over,”
“Songs of Unity,” “Popular Songs of Victory,” and
“Songs for Children.” The songs selected are more diverse
in performance and style than is usual in a collection such
as this, ranging as they do from the direct, driving folk
song to the composed song in concert style.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

  

Training Through Recreation

By William J. Pitt. Bureau of Publications, Teachers
College, Columbia University, New York. $.35.
THIS PRACTICAL BOOKLET, written by a lieutenant in the
United States Naval Reserve, is designed to serve the
new soldier by helping him make the most of his leisure
time. There are suggestions on relaxation, hobbies, games,
indoor activities, education, and activities outside 'the
camp. A section on "Organization for Leisure Activity”
tells how the Army sets up its organization for the ser-
vice man’s free time.

This is a booklet which recreation workers will find
exceedingly valuable.

Dealing with Delinquency—
Yearboolt I940

Edited by Marjorie Bell. The National Probation Asso-
ciation, 1790 Broadway, New York. Paper bound,
$1.25; cloth bound, $1.75.

THIS VOLUME contains the papers on the treatment and

prevention of delinquency which were given at the
thirty-fourth annual conference of the National Proba—
tion Association at Grand Rapids, Michigan, in May,

1940. It also contains a report of the work of the As-

sociation for 1939-1940.

Functional Football

By John DaGrosa. W. B. Saunders Company, Philadel-
phia. $3.25.
[N THE SECOND EDITION of this book, Mr. DaGrosa ana;
lyzes every technique of the game of football and
teaches graphically every move of individual and co-
operative play from fundamentals to the advanced stages.
He gives an unbiased picture of the fundamentals of all
systems of play, their strengths and weaknesses, and how
to use them. Six-man football is discussed in detail, and
many new illustrations are used in this revised edition.

The Ceramic Arts

By William H. Johnson and Louis V. Newkirk. The
Macmillan Company, New York. $1.20.

THIS BOOK, intended as a basal textbook for use in the
industrial arts department of junior and senior high
schools, will be of equal interest‘to adult groups wishing
information on how to make articles included in this
classification of the arts and crafts. Beginning wit-h a
chapter on “Ceramics—A Foundation of Modern Indus-
try,” the ibook presents the basic principles of the five
great divisions of ceramics: pottery, plastics, glass, ala-
baster, and cement and concrete. The use of tools is
explained, and the processes in each case are presented.
There are fifty diagrams and a number of photographs
illustrating processes.

539

540

Service Library.
Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New York.

The Boy Scouts of America is issuing a series of prac-
tical pamphlets through its Service Library. Though
chosen primarily for the use of Boy Scouts, there is much
information in these practical booklets for recreation
workers. Recent publications include M etalcraft, Leather-
craft, and Crafts-trip Braiding Projects. Each of these
booklets may be secured for 25 cents. Lists of the pam-
phlets making up the Service Library may be secured on
request from the Boy Scouts of America.

Healthful Living Out of Doors.

t By Nina B. Lamkin. National Tuberculosis Asso-

ciation, 1790 Broadway, New York.

In this effective little pamphlet Miss Lamkin answers
a number of questions such as: \Vhy do we like the out
of doors? \Vhat do we need to know to enjoy the out of
doors? She offers suggestions on ways of enjoying out-
door life, keeping in mind the needs of early elementary
grades, upper elementary grades, and junior and senior
high schools. Discussion leads and activities are sug-
gested.

The pamphlet is available through your local or state
Tuberculosis Association. For further information write
the National Tuberculosis Association, 1790 Broadway,

New York City.

Fu n with Wood.

By Joseph Leeming. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
Philadelphia. $2.25.

Beginning with old-fashioned but fascinating whittling,
Mr. Leeming’s book takes us on to wood carving and
describes the techniques for chip carving, chase carving,
and other types of carving. Many designs and diagrams
are given.

The Barnes Dollar Sports Library.

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00 each.
Recent additions to this library on sports include Bowl-
ing by Joe Falcaro and Murray Goodman, which is de-
voted to principles of bowling, techniques, and funda-
mentals of play, and Fencing by Joseph Vince, which
presents in simple language the fundamentals of this
fascinating sport in all its branches.

Guideposts for Rural Youth.

By E. L. Kirkpatrick. Prepared by The American
Youth Commission. American Council on Education,
744 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

In this book Dr. Kirkpatrick tells of the more than
twenty-one million Americans between sixteen and twenty-

four years of age who live on farms or in villages of,

less than 2,500 population. For almost three years Dr.
Kirkpatrick has been examining the rural areas, and his
book is filled with the ingenious and practical ways in
which rural communities have reformed themselves to
meet the enormous increase in farm youth population.
The findings are discussed under such titles as “Ready for
\Vork," “Education for Life,” “Time for Play,” “Estab-
lishing Homes,” “Organizations for Youth,” and “Young
People and the Community.” In his final chapter, “Look-
ing Ahead,” the author says: “The final solutions to the
problems of rural young people cannot be realized with-
out solutions to the problems that vex the nation and the
world. But until that time comes much can be done to
make things better in communities where peOple live.”

Improving Interpretation and Public Relations.

Compiled by the American Association for the Study‘
of Group Work, 670 Lexington Avenue, New York
City. Single copies, 30¢; 10 or more, 25¢ each.

An outline for those in charge of recreation publicity,
starting from the very basic principles of interpretation
and continuing on through the actual process of releasing
news. Discusses methods of determining public opinion,
often a neglected aspect. Specific hints on goals, audience,
appeals, media, and collection of material. Also included
is a selected bibliography of books and articles on pub-
licity in social fields. .

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELI)

 
  
  
 
    
    
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
       
 
 
    
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
   

STATEMENT OF THE O\VNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS 0'
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24. 1912. AND MARCH 3, 1933.
of RECREATION, published monthly at New York, N. Y., for
October 1, 1942.

Sun: or New You,
Couu'rv or New You, :3

Before me, a notary public in and for the State and con-m
aforesaid, personally appeared Howard Braucber, wbo. havi 1,-
heen duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that he is ".
editor of RECREATION and that the following is, to the best of
his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownersh'
management (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of t
aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above capti
required by the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the A
of March 3, 1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws "

Regulations, printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

}. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenu
New York, N. Y.

NEgitor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York,

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, Ne
York, N. Y.

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, N
York, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name w
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder t
names and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one -.
cent or more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a c
poration, the names and addresses of the individual owners me:
he given. If owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporat
concern, its name and address, as well as those of each :-
vidual member, must be given.)

A

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, N
York, N. Y.

F. \V. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boot
Mass; Mrs. Edward W. Biddle, Carlisle, Pa.; Mrs. Robert W .2
Bliss, Washington, D. C.; Howard Braucber, New York, N. Y.
Mrs. William Butterworth, Moline, 111.; Henry L. Corbett, Por
land, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr
Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. J.; Robert Garrett. Bal '
more, Md.; Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.; Austin '
Grifiitbs. Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitchbu
Mass.; Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.; Mrs. Charles
Hickox, Michigan City, Lnd.; Mrs. John D. Jameson, Sugar H'
N. H.; Gustavus T. Kirby, New York, N. Y.; H. McK. Landoo
Indianapolis, Ind.; Robert Lassiter, Charlotte, N. C.; Susan
Lee, Boston. Mass; Otto T. Mallory, Philadelphia, Pa.; Wal
A. May, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta. Me.; M
Ogden L. Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.; Mrs. Sigmund Stern. S
Francisco. Calif.: Mrs. James W. Wadsworth, Washington. D. C.
J. C. \Valsh, New York, N. Y.; Frederick M. Warburg. N
York, N. Y.: John G. “'inant, COncord, N. H.; Stanley \Voo
ward, \Vasbington, D. C.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other secu '
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are non
so state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next ahove, giving the names of t
owners, stockholders, and security holders. if any, contain ‘
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they app
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the 510
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the c0m
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of t
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is giv
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements emhraci
ah‘iant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold st
and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide o
and this afi‘iant has no reason to believe that any other per
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by hi

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this s - r
lication Sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise. i
paid subscribers during the twelve months precedin the d
shown above is (This information is required from aily pu
cations only.)

Howaan Bnaucnzn, Editor

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 24th day of Sept-m
ber, 1942.

[suL] MIRIAM S. C. Docnrunann,
Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s No. 355. Certificate Filed in New York
County. Clerk’s No. 138. Register's No. 4D70. My Commission
expires March 30, 1944.

