Land Ho! Land Ho! Land for All the People

HAT I LIKE to think about,.as I send my wartime gift to the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, is that I am helping to keep alive what is most distinctive of America and

what is very beautiful, what in part makes America worth fighting for.

Several thousand people have given their land in America for parks and -recreation———
land along the ocean, on the lake, by the river, on the mountain top; wooded land, desert land,
land with wild flowers, land where birds find sanctuary; land in the crowded city, land far
away in the wilds—but always it is land for the people, for all the people, for the use of
people, land for happiness, land for finding one's self, land for doing what one wants most to
do in the way one wants most to do it.

Much of this land has been given. Much has been voted by the people—often by
overwhelming votes. All the people caring for all the people, wanting them to be happy.
Here is no attempt to curb the people, to police them, to control them, no attempt to make
‘ them over in the image someone else or some group has determined for them but an effort to
free them to sing, and dance, and put on plays and grow flowers, and create beauty with their
hands as they themselves choose, to become what they themselves want to become; if you
will, to give God’s spirit within man a chance to come out in a friendly atmosphere.

In the old days each tribe had its land, each family its land. Man was fully man only
as he had a bit of soil, as he got his fingers in the dirt. His strength was as the strength of
ten as long as he was close to the earth. Most men long to get back to the land. Most men
now must earn their bread elsewhere. But the longing remains.

And so men buy land and give it to the people in perpetuity—forever and forever,
that children may play, that young men and young women in springtime may court, that
old men and old women may sit upon the benches and watch their-neighbors go by.

And land there is that has belonged to all the people for a thousand years and will go
on belonging to all for thousands of years to come—the people’s land a gift eternal—giving
ownership to all. The people's land like a light burning forever and forever, land restored to

the tribe, never to be taken from the members of the tribe, binding all men together in com~
mon ownership of the land that is dedicated to them.

A rainbow in the sky and a promise that floods shall come no more. Park and rec-
reation land and brotherhood shall not cease from the earth.

War is desolation and desolation is upon us. Yet land, buildings, and facilities to the

value of six billion dollars have in the United States been set aside for all the people—a token
of common brotherhood.

Land in sight—land in sight—and Columbus discovered America!
We too see land—acre upon acre and all these park and recreation lands held for all
the people. a

They also discovered America, they also discovered land and its true use who gave it, who
voted it as recreation land for all the people.

The National Recreation Association is dedicated to holding this discovered land in war~
time and in peace time for all the people forever.

When I contribute to the National Recreation Association in wartime I like to think
I am giving to keep effective the use of all this land that is dedicated to the people who are
America, to keep it a sacred trust for all the people, to keep it out of politics, to save it for
the time of peace, to see that it is used to keep the American people free.

W GWW

 

MARCH I942

 

701

l I ’
$15» >  womm__ ._
t a navy [Veer York City Department of Parks

Photo by Richard Enright

 

 

Hobbies for Defense

FARE-TIME INTERESTS are playing a vital role
8 in the present conflict and represent a con-
tribution whose preparation was under way
many years before Pearl Harbor. '
In I 926, trans-Atlantic flights fired the imagina-
tions of young and old. Enthusiastic youngsters
cast their eyes skyward, flung awkward toy air-
planes into the discard. and began the construction
of Flying models, using balsa wood and tissue
paper. Poking into aerodynamics and weather
study they created rubber-powered “jobs” that
executed astonishing soaring performances. The
gas motor was streamlined for tiny ‘models—by
the hobbyists themselves—and soon radio waves
were harnessed to control the midgets in flight.
The Pearl Harbor incident found 2,000,030
model airplane enthusiasts and thousands of fine
young men “graduates” who landed with a run-
ning start in military aviation because of knowl-
edge gained in mastering the technique of model
aerodromics. Many have been molded into pilots
and hundreds have taken over the all-important
ground chores. Thousands are in airplane factories

By

IRVING BACCI—IUS
Ft. Worth, Texas

"Keep 'em hobbying" is the
slogan suggested by this
writer for the home front,
as he tells of some of the
contributions which Ameri-
can hobbyists are making
to the winning of the war

where their enthusiasm is a natural stimulant to
production.

“Keep ’em modeling," is a slogan which has
come from military leaders. Secretary of the Navy
Frank Knox has assigned young model hobbyists
the task of building 500,000 miniatures for the
armed forces. Ten thousand models of fifty fight-
ing ships are needed to train personnel in aircraft
recognition and range estimation in gunnery
practice. 

Civilians need models for study in recognizing
the differences between friends and enemies. Hun-
dreds of model clubs throughout the United
States are accepting the challenge and are now
producing shining models which testify to the lif-
teen years of development by young Americans
who played for fun—not by governmental decree.

To the American hobbyist goes much credit for
development of motorless ship fiying. Hordes of
gliders were towed to Crete by German bombers
and assumed an important part in the occupation
of that island.

A glider flight of fifteen minutes was an Ameri-
can record in 1929. Steadily the amateurs pushed
the sport. The Soaring Society of America was or-
ganized in 1932 to promote the movement. Army
and navy ofncials began to observe the progress. To-
day the experience and personnel of more than a

703

704

hundred local clubs is at the command of the
United States government, and military gliders
are being constructed that will ferry a score of
fully-equipped soldiers.

Nothing is more vital in “getting there fustest
with the mostest men” than lines of communica—
tions. Here again the hobbyists have set an ex-
ample. America had been at war but a few hours
on December 7th, when George L. Bailey, Presi-
dent of the Amateur Radio Relay League, in ac-
cordance with defense plans, telephoned the ama-
teur radio key station, WIAW, to broadcast an
immediate request for the shutdown of all “ham”
stations—an obvious wartime necessity. \Twenty
minutes later all amateur bands were silent.

Thousands of these same hobbyists who went
out of action that night have enlisted in the ser-
vices and become the voice and ears of Uncle Sam.
Many times America’s 55,000 radio hams have
proved their worth, establishing emergency com—
munications in times of disastrous fires, floods and
earthquakes. A few key stations may be used for
emergency communications during the war. Others
are aiding in vital radio training courses set up to
produce the enormous number of technicians
needed.

The eyes of the services include recruits from
America’s most popular hobby ranks—the pho—
tographers. The United States has 20,000,000
camera fans, and many finely trained experts have
plunged into the armed forces. The Amateur
Cinema League and its members are encouraging
the defense effort through ingenious home movies
which depict the American way of life we are pro-
tecting. Careful to practice the restraint necessary
for camera lovers in wartime, this hobby group is
proud of its ability to serve.

Remember Cher Ami? This courageous little
homing pigeon completed a dangerous flight from
Major \Vhittlesey’s Lost Battalion during World
\Var I and brought rescue to the beleaguered out—
fit. Although superceded by radio, telephone and
telegraph, the carrier pigeon is still an integral
part of army communications, particularly over
short distances. The significance of this fascinat—
ing activity is evidenced by the fact that the army
command authorizes one pigeon company for each
field army. More than 30,000 pigeon hobbyists in
a thousand flourishing clubs are, at Uncle Sam’s
command and subject to call. An innovation in
pigeon breeding introduced since the last war is
a bird of mottled gray and dusky white which
effects a clever camouflage.

HOBBIES FOR DEFENSE

From home workshops another army of hobby-
ists has rushed to the war effort. During the two
decades of serenity, thousands of Americans lei-
surely developed precision skill in private work-
shops. One such craftsman is now engaged in pro—
ducing small parts for a defense contractor. Many
are being classified for similar tasks, or are pur-
suing their hobbies in factories where skilled labor
is a prime need.

Unraveling word mysteries is the hobby of
American Cryptogram Association members. This
unique diversion assumes added importance in
wartime, and advanced cipher fans are in position
to answer Uncle Sam’s call for more code students.

In normal times the hobby of studying and rais-
ing silk worms might appear of no special impor—
tance. Mrs. Haig Vartanian of Philadelphia for a
decade has pursued this interesting avocation.
Now, with our silk supply disrupted, the govern-
ment is taking a special interest in the activities
of this industrious hobbyist.

Is America soft? Thousands of young men
whose hobbies have promoted the development of
physique are refuting the charge. Participation in
active sports has shown a marked increase in
America as working hours have been shortened,
and today Uncle Sam can command as much phy-
sical prowess as any nation.

How can the individual hobbyist promote vic-
tory? One answer is by continuing his hobby in—
terests. The maintenance of a vital equilibrium is
important. Sane civilian attitudes must be fos-
tered. A few minutes Spent daily in relaxing
hobby pursuits enables one to pursue his daily toil
in'a more cheerful and competent manner. Thus,
another slogan for the home front is “keep ’em
hobbying l”

The airplane models which the Navy Depart-
ment has asked American high school youth to
make for continuous use in the training of naval
combat forces must be built with scientific preci-
sion and accuracy, it is pointed out. Plans and
specifications are being prepared by the Navy’s
lureau of Aeronautics. Some are being supplied
to the United States Office of Education under
whose auspices the program will be administered
in cooperation with state departments of education
and local school systems. To students completing
stated quantities of models which pass inspection,
the Bureau of Aeronautics and the Office of Edn-
cation will award certificates acknowledging the
importance of the work and its value to the Navy.

“we. so» seasons.“
sovwxume‘g

 

OST OF Us, scanning the quotation which gives.
M us our title, will have some fellow feeling
for the man who spoke these words several
thousand years ago. \Ne can enter immediately
into his predicament because most of us have had,
at some time or other, by reason of carelessness or
some mischance, the experience of borrowing
something we could not return. The man in the
story, however, (which, by the way, you can find
in the Second Book of Kings, Chapter 6, Verses
1—7) had the great good fortune to be in the com-
pany of Elisha, the Prophet, when the head of the
borrowed ax with which he was chopping at a
beam fell into the water. Then it was that he
cried “Alas, Master! for it was borrowed.” Elisha,
taking pity on his plight, cut a stick and cast it
into the water, whereupon “the iron did swim”
as the ancient writer delightfully phrased it.

This story has always seemed to us to be far
more effective than the words of Polonins, so-
often repeated. He sounds like a “stuffy” moralist,
and true though the admonition is, we feel that the
Bible story is more applicable to everyday life for,

according to Polonins, in “Hamlet,” one should

“Neither a borrower nor a lender be,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
This, above all, to thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as the night, the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.”

“7 e believe it is necessary to “borrow and lend”
but every effort should be made to eliminate the
“Alas, Master” in the transaction. Very often
borrowed property is not returned because the
borrower does not feel the lender is a responsible
person, and will not realize it has not been re-
turned. If property is handed out in a “lacka-
daisical" manner, with no indication as to how it
is to be returned, nine times out of ten it will be

nAlas, Master!

For it Was Borrowed"

, By MARGUERITE ICKIS

lost. The recreation leader should have this firmly
in mind when handling large groups, and organize
his material so he can tell at a glance that some—
thing is missing.

Here are a few suggestions: Plan to keep your
tools in one place, preferably in a tool cabinet that
may be locked when not in use. If you can hang
them on the wall, as suggested in Figure I, paint
a silhouette of each tool in red so that you can
recognize at once that a tool it missing. Thus all
tools can be checked quickly before the children
leave the workshop. This method of handling
tools will eliminate suSpicion between the leader
and participants and should keep a full supply of
tools on hand throughout the season.

Several camps have marked their tools with
colored celluloid rings sold at the ten cent store
for loose—leaf note books. A different color is used
to mark the tools in each unit. Thus, if a ham-
mer is found somewhere on the camp grounds, the

Figure I

 

S‘ILHOUE T75
“@2325 m OF MISSING
HAMMER

705

706 “ALAS, MASTER! FOR IT WAS BORROWED”

finder will know where
to return it, because of
the colored marker.

If small tools are in-
volved in the teaching of
a craft, they might be
arranged in a shallow
drawer, as shown in Fig- '  TC
ure II. The bottom of the
drawer is lined with
three~ply wood into which

depressions are cut according to the outline of the ,.

tools. To facilitate a quick check of the tools, paint
the depressions a contrasting color so the tool will
stand out from the background. This system of
checking tools is particularly adaptable to those
used in the teaching of leather craft, metalry, and
wood carving.

The labeling of property is another precaution
which should be taken in any recreation center.
People usually avoid taking material on which the
name of an agency has been stamped. The address
of the organization should also appear on the label
so that it may be returned by anyone who chances
to come across it.

It is important that thought be given the word—
ing of the labels. If it is too “blunt” it may an-
tagonize the borrower. A humorous or friendly
reminder will appeal to the procrastinator and to
the person who has no intention of keeping the
article permanently but who is thoughtless about its
return; and they are, for the most part, the ha-
bitual offenders.

Book Borrowers

If a person owns many books it means he loves
them and wants to keep them for his library.
Usually he likes to discuss his books with other
book lovers, and before he knows it, he is borrow-
ing and lending. A book is one of the easiest
articles to lose because there are so many “chain
readers.” It often comes to rest with a total
stranger after it has made its round. If a person
values a book, he should put a book plate in it
immediately on which is written his name and ad-
dress. There are many beautiful book plates on
sale at department stores, but better still, make
them as a craft project and have your own design.

The designs may be transferred by means of a
linoleum block, celluloid etching or stencil. A back-
ground may also be spattered on with ink. This is
a simple technique that can be used very effec-

Figure ll

 

tively. If you can label
your books no other way,
use a rubber stamp.

On Loaning Tools and
Equipment

A craft teacher may
{ind it a better policy
when asked to loan his
tools or equipment to
“invite” that person to
come to the craft shop where he can use them
under supervision. Many borrowers are unfa-
miliar with craft tools and often ruin them un-
intentionally.

If members of a swimming group wish to
make a check board, suggest they reserve a period
at the craft shop when you can make all materials
and tools available for their use. A drama group
is frequently the greatest borrower in many rec-
reation centers—and the worst “offender.” This
is easily explained. Excitement runs high when a
play is about to be produced and it is seldom that
the props and scenery are made ahead of schedule.
Consequently, many hands must be employed to
complete the work at the last moment and every
available paint brush, hammer, and other equip—
ment in the center must be put to use. The alert
craft leader will become aware of this situation
after one or two sad experiences of losing his tools
and having his paint brushes ruined by being
dipped-into all kinds of .paints. When the next
play is given he will have plans of his own to offer
and will be in an offensive rather than a defensive
position.

A wise move might be to approach the drama
leader and suggest that the craft group help the
drama committee make the scenery, or that one
part of the craft shop be reserved for their use
until the play is completed. The result of such
cooperation should be two-fold: the talent of the
crafter should lend a professional air to the scen-
ery, and some of the drama group may have found
a new hobby in the craft shop.

One of the best ways to motivate new interests
is through experience. You will bud that many of
the actors will become regular visitors at the craft
shop because they have learned to be deft with
their hands and know something about design and
color combination. On the other hand,’some mem-
bers of the craft group will have an urge to appear

“ALAS, MASTER! FOR IT WAS BORROWED” 707

in the next play and will find time to rehearse be-
tween their craft projects.

A craft leader has the same Opportunity to in-
tegrate his crafts with other recreational activities.
The nature group will welcome an invitation to
come to the craft shop to make leaf prints, plaster
casts or costume jewelry from natural materials.
The making of games and game equipment is an-
other excellent craft project. In fact, everyone in
a recreation agency is a potential visitor to the
craft shop. Invite them to come in and teach them
to use your tools. If you make them welcome, you
Will find very few borrowers at your door.

Now that we have talked about the “lender” and

his responsibilities, let’s discuss the “borrower”.

.and some of his shortcomings. Of course we can

suggest he seriously ponder the Golden Rule,
| “Do unto others as you would have others do unto
you,” but unfortunately the sad ending of many
a tale is due to the carelessness of others—wand not
to the one directly involved. Perhaps one might
hear, “Alas, Master, for it was borrowed” on the
community theater stage more than any other
place. so we suggest the following:

Back Stage Hints

Designate one person to be back stage the night
of the show to receive all the small properties the
actors carry with them as they' leave the stage. He
should also look after them if the scenery is to be
changed between acts. Small articles are easily
lost or mislaid, but they are often just as valuable
as the large ones. Select inexpensive properties if
you have to borrow them—cheap materials can be
improvised to give an excellent effect, and the
property committee will have their greatest fun

I making “something out of nothing.” For instance,
: a cheap white tea .set can be painted to resemble
peasant ware, or even old Chelsea. Inexpensive
cambric muslin can be stenciled in old designs so
that from a distance they will resemble the best
gowns worn by old-world courtiers. Beautiful
drapes may be made by dyeing and stenciling the
cheapest kind of burlap, and by using a little in-
genuity ordinary furniture can be made to fit into
almost any period. A comforting thought is that
“distance lends enchantment to the view” when
stage properties are concerned!

When costumes are loaned ask the persons who
use them to wear something of their own under-
neath for protection. As soon as the wearer leaves
the stage- after his performance, be sure someone
is present to receive the costume. This is the time

 

when most costumes are ruined, for they are often
pinned in so many places that the child cannot re—
move his own costume so pulls it apart in his ex-
citement. One place should be designated before the
play begins to which all the actors must take their
costume after the performance.

All properties and costumes should be returned
as soon after the play as possible. This should be
done by the committee who did the borrowing so
that if any difficulty arises the matter can be ad-
justed by the people who made the original ar-
rangement. If possible, the drama group should
establish a “properties fund” for replacing bor-
rowed articles that have been lost or damaged.

Owner’s Inventory

Individuals or agencies should keep an inven-
tory of their property when they must make a
practice of borrowing and lending. It is an easy
matter to arrange an inventory according to sub-
ject, listing books, tools, and other articles on
separate pages. If the articles are to be loaned,
attach a separate page for signatures, and ask the
borrower to sign for them in his own handwrit-
ing. This is important because it _is often the only
proof one can offer a person, after a considerable
lapse of time, that he actually borrowed the articles.

An inventory should be checked frequently and
notices sent out if the articles are to be returned.
If such a practice involves notifying many people,
a card may be designed similar to the one appear—
ing at the top of page 705. It is made of two
pieces of heavy paper from which a clown bobs
up. On it is printed, “You forgot to return some-
thing,” or other appropriate caption. You will find
that a bit of humor will usually produce results.

“The experienced craftsman has learned to make
craft procedures as simple as possible by keeping
tools and materials in good condition and where
they are easily accessible. ‘A place for everything'
is a shop necessity. Transparent glass containers
are excellent for storing small articles such as little
nails. Large glass containers may be used for
string and lacing remnants. Tooling metals should
be rolled smoothly on a round stick or corrugated
paper and protected from scratching by wrapping
in heavy paper. Papers should be kept flat, if
possible. The lid of a paint container should
always be replaced and the outside of the can
cleaned before it is put away. Paint pans should
be washed after using and before storing. Paint
brushes require immediate care after use.”

Music and Morale

T IS A generally ac-

I cepted fact that music

can be of great value
in building and sustain-
ing morale. Its expres-
sions of courage, cheer,
faith, serenity, good humor, and triumph have a
direct and full effect on the human mind and spirit.
And when people sing or play freely together,
there is likely to arise among them a feeling of
unity and cooperation that is of the utmost value
in these times.

In meeting the requirements that there will be
for adjustments and cooperative effort in the days
to come, we shall need not only ideas and informa-
tion but also this social attitude and social habits,
such as group singing or playing can easily de-
velop, that will put the good idea into effect.
Social-mindedness and loyalty are, however, to be
gained not only in actual participation in the
music, but also in listening to a chorus, orchestra,
band or festival that is recognized as being really
an expression of the community and is accepted
as such with pride. To the listener also, the joyous
faith, courage and grace of heart and mind that is
felt in the music may be identified with his fellow-
citizens who are performing, with himself, and
with his community as a whole. It is the commu-
nity that he hears, and he likes it. And this pride
and affection that he feels for his community may
be a basic if not indispensable factor in the build-
ing of an invincible spirit of unity and service in
the state and the nation. ‘

Furthermore, the ideas that we as a pe0ple must
grasp as the strong, focusing cause for our alle-
giance and efforts in the war have their meaning
clarified and intensified by being fitly associated
with music. Consider, for example, the recently
composed “Ballad for Ameri-
cans” as well as the old pa-
triotic songs. Thus ideas be-
come ideals. They acquire
fuller meaning and are
charged with a generating
power of feeling that evokes

 

‘ Mr. Zanzig is at present on leave
of absence from the National Recre-
ation Association conducting a state-
wide music demonstration under the
auspices of the University of Texas.

708

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG*

Extracts from Report of the Music
Department, University of Texas

"Music lets you express yourself without
your being for one moment self-conscious.
Music lets you let yourself go. .
helps make you a more interesting person
to live~with. You begin to develop your
resources so, that you are an all-around
.. personality. Music cheers you— comforts
you—keeps you company. . . . The man who
has music in his soul is never lonesome."—

Fred B. Barton in Music as a Hobby.

full effort in their behalf.

Though upon first
glance some of the other
work of the Music De-
partment—its classes in
composition and in appre-
ciation and its instruction.to individuals in singing
or playing—may seem less important in wartime
than in peace time, thinking about it may well give
an opposite opinion. We must remember that the
morale of any community is comprised of the
states of mind and feeling of its individuals, and
that such studies as these can contribute very im-
portantly to the inner well-being of an individual.
It would be well for our whole country, in its
grave crisis, if every individual everywhere were to
cultivate some such activity as these music students
are having, as a means of maintaining a sound
health and poise of mind and spirit keeping him
ready to serve most effectively and to continue to
live as a well-rounded human being even in the
midst of an insane world.

Moreover, it is of great importance that the
forces that make for full, happy, civilized living be
maintained not only for their immediate values to
a people at war, but also for their crucial long—
time values in the building of the peace after this
war, and in the mere carrying-on of everyday life
in that time. We shall need these values of music
then more than ever, and so we shall need men
and women who have been trained to make music
worthy of our need, to compose, sing, play and
conduct excellently and, as teachers, to continue
with still better effect the beneficent educative in-
fluence of music among children in schools and
among responsive people everywhere. And those
of us who have learned to sing or play merely for
the love of it, and to listen intelligently to fine
music, to catch its inner and
most nourishing meanings,
will, to that extent at least,
be fortunate in that time as
well as in the nearer days.
For there will be a scarcity
of the things thatpeOple buy
for pleasure and recreation,
and a scarcity of money to

(Continued on page 750)

. . Music

Old World Easter

ina

New World Setting

SEVEN YEAR OLD child stood close to

A her mother on the tiny parade

ground atop Castle Hill in Sitka on

a sunless October day in 1867. She could

see the rest of the white population of the

tiny settlement grouped around the flag
pole which proudly bore the fluttering emblem of
the Czars. They were standing close together,
partly for protection against the chill breeze that
rose from the island-dotted bay, and partly because
i they were drawn together by a feeling of aloneness
in a vast New World. From now on the soil on
which they had built their homes would no longer
belong to their mother country. This was October
eighteenth and the ceremony they had gathered to
, watch was the formal transfer of Russian America
i to the United States. The link between the present
and the past was being shattered. The future was

uncertain.

The little girl could not understand the tears
that rolled down her mother’s cheeks as the Rus-

sian flag descended the pole to be replaced by the

Stars and Stripes. She could not understand what.

this day meant to all of them gathered there. She
was not old enough to realize how difhcult it was
for them to make the decision that would either
force them to leave the security of their homes and
risk a perilous journey back to Russia, or would
cause them to stay and cast
their lot with the new gov-
ernment. It was a choice
which promised little either
way.

Many of those people did
return, but those who stayed
and weathered the chaotic
and lawless years before the
District of Alaska finally
became the Territory of
Alaska, gave an Old World
heritage to those who were
to come later. People like

 

Sifka. Alaskal which provides fhe seffing
for Miss Manca's arficlel normally has a
populafion of abouf L300 peoplel approxi-
mafely 500 of whom are whifes. The main
indusfry is fishing. Many nafives belong
fo fhe Russian churchI buf fhe whife peo-
ple of Russian ancesfry who live here fo-
day are few in number. The aufhor lived
for six years in Siflca. where she foolc up
a homesfead. faughf school. and did recre-
afion work. She leff in I937 iusf before
fhe governmenf began fo build fhe Army
and Navy bases which foday mal<e Siflca so
imporfanf a spof in fhe war in fhe Pacific.

 

 

By RUTH N. MANCA

seven year old Nadja Kasnikoff, who stayed on
and grew up and grew old in the Territory, kept
alive some of the Russian traditions and ceremon-
ies that had once made Sitka the most colorful
spot on the western frontier.

Part of this heritage is the celebration of Easter,
always a festive occasion among Russian Chris-
tians because it marks the end of a rigorous ob-
servance of Lent. The descendants of those Rus-
sian people who were in Sitka in 1867 make up
only a small percentage of the present day popu-
lation, but at Easter time many residents who do
not belong to the church make Easter calls on
their Russian friends and attend the all night ser-
vices, just as they watch the Christmas procession,

and dance at the masquerades nearly every night
for a week during the Russian New Year. Sev-

eral of us were Easter guests at the home of Nadja
Kasnikoff Bahrt seventy years after she watched
the ceremony on Castle Hill.

In Russian homes in Sitka,
Easter week is a busy time.
Besides attending church
each day, there is much to
be done to prepare for the
holiday. The house must be
scrubbed and cleaned from
top to bottom, and the samo-
var and the candlesticks
must shine even more
brightly than usual. There
is much baking to be done
for there must be an ample

709

710 OLD IVORLD EASTER IN .4 NEW WORLD SETTING

supply of pashka, the tall, dome-like loaves of Eas-
ter bread that are frosted and gaily decorated with
colored candies. And, of course, there are eggs,
quantities of them, to be hard boiled and dyed—
eggs to take to church, eggs to fill baskets at
home, and eggs for the children’s games.

Services begin an hour or so before midnight
on Saturday in the little white church with two
Byzantine towers that stands in the center of the
main street, where it was built in 1816. The
stranger who attends Easter service for the fll‘St
time is amazed at the richness of the hangings, the
gold altar cloth, the ikons, and the paintings. for
the white clapboard
exterior that covers
thick log walls gives
little hint of the Old
World treasures
housed inside.

Up until mid-
night the church is
dimly lighted, but
as the Easter Day
approaches the
priest and his at-
tendants, followed
by those of the con—
gregation who Wish,
leave the building
and form a solemn
procession outside.
When they return
the church is ablaze
with the light of
many candles, sym-
bolizing the light
that is the resur-
rection. Much of
the Easter service is musical and an unseen choir
sings and chants in beautiful a capella harmony.

Since the congregation always remains stand-
ing in Russian churches, and since the services
last five or six hours or longer, many of the faith-
ful have left by the time the bells start ringing in
the early morning—a ringing which continues
without pause throughout the whole day. As the
rest of the congregation files out of the church
they extend to each other the Easter greeting,
“Christ is risen,” (spoken in Russian) and the
answer, freely translated, “Christ is risen, indeed.”
Each carries a colored egg which he strikes against
that of his neighbor and then embraces him. Later
in the day, the children play a game, found in

 

The Easteroegg has always been a symbol of new life. In
some countries eggs were sent to friends on Easter as cards
are sent today. The colors used for eggs in those early times
were chiefly red and yellow, chosenI some think' from the
Easter fire and the sun. In ancient times. families in the
villages would send "chargers." large platters filled with
eggs .to the church to be blessed by the priest. Afterward
they were taken home and were the first food tasted after
the Lenten season. In the homeI a table was set and dec-
orated with blossoms. The great charger of eggs, painted
in colors. was set in the center. Each caller who came to
the home during Easter week was presented with an egg.

many countries, which is related to this custom.
In it, they bump eggs to try and break the shell
of the other’s. If a child’s egg is broken, he must
give it to the other player.

In the afternoon Easter calling begins. At one
time only the men made the rounds on Easter
Sunday, the women postponing their calls until
the next day. Now, however, both men and
women, dressed in their best, go from house to
house on Sunday, although guests are welcomed
and fed in Russian homes at any time during the
week following Easter. This custom of making
calls is one which is practiced by most of the memv
bers of the commu-
nity, whether Rus-
sian or not, for
one’s Russian
friends feel slighted
if one neglects to
visit them at this
time of the year.

The Easter caller
must first provide
himself with a col—
ored egg. This he
takes with him on
his first call. As he
enters he is greeted
with the Russian
words, for “Christ
is risen,” to which
he replies, also in
Russian, “Christ is
risen, indeed.” He
then places his egg
among the others
in the basket which
stands on a table
near the door.

He may be shown first to the living room, or he
may be taken directly to the dining room where
fifteen _or twenty people are standing around the
heavily laden table. This table is filled with all
sorts of food——meat cakes, cheese, pashka, candies
——and is often decorated with baskets of colored
eggs. The guest may be served wine, but there is
always hot tea in the samovar, which one usually
drinks from a glass instead of a cup.

There is much laughter and conversation, and
after eating and drinking, the guest takes his leave,
to repeat the same procedure at the next house.
As he leaves, however, he selects a different egg

(Continued on page 754)

The Wiser Use of the School Plant

OUR HUNDRED million dol-
lars represent the approxi-
mate annual investment in

public schools during a num-
ber of recent years, according
to Dr. Morse R. Cartwright of
the Institute of Adult Educa-
tion, sponsored by the Teachers College of Co-
lumbia University, in an introduction to a recent
book, Planning the Community School.* The En-
gelhardts, authors of this study, have in it made'
‘an outstanding contribution in a field to which all
school people in America must sooner or later pay
very serious attention.

Some Schools in Use

There are some examples of the wider use of
the school plant that are worthy of attention. The
entire set-up in Long Beach, California, where

forty-nine new school buildings have been planned .

with the objective of making these plants useful in
their respective communites after school hours for
young people and during the evening hours, Sat-
urdays, Sundays, and holidays for the adults, is
indeed indicative of the strides taken by that city
in the accomplishment of an ideal situation. An—

other illustration is the splendid program estab- ,

lished in the Shorewood, Wisconsin, Opportunity
School, which the writer visited about a year ago.

The Shorewood Cen’rer. Shorewood is a small
residential suburb that grew up around a planned
school center. It has a population of 16,000. The
Shorewood Opportunity School in part is financed
by a so~called vocational education tax, and there-
fore, might be' expected to run heavily to voca-
tional training. As a matter of fact, only eight out
of some hundred courses offered within the past
few years were strictly vocational. The rest were
largely avocational.

Shorewood residents are charged a fee of $1.00
for each‘ class; communities that do not support a

vocational and adult education school are charged ‘

the same fee; residents under twenty-one who can
obtain a tuition guarantee from their town or vil-
lage clerk can enroll for the $1.00 fee also; resi-
dents over twenty-one who cannot obtain a tuition

 

* Pla_nning the Cqmmunity School, Engelhardt, N. L. (Prof.'«,of
Education. Columbia University) in collaboration with Engel-
hardt, N. L., Jr. American Book Company, New York City, 1940.

By PHILIP L. SEMAN

Dr. Semanl who is General Director
of the Jewish People's Institute of
Chicago. also serves as Chairman of
the Chicago Recreation Commission

guarantee from their town or
village cl_erk are enrolled on
the same basis-as Milwaukee
residents. Milwaukee residents
and residents of other commu-
nities which support a voca-
tional and adult school are
charged a fifty cent evening tuition fee, payable a
month in advance. There are special non—resident
rates. Such activities as are offered include tap
dancing, contract bridge, ballroom dancing, golf,
badminton, fencing, choruses, band, orchestra, and
dramatics.

There is a very interesting observation in con-
nection with the Shorewood Opportunity School
in its proud boast that the school plant of the vil—
lage serves more adults than children.

At Long Beach. Forty-nine beautiful school
buildings have been so constructed that im-
mediately after school hours such portions of the
school buildings which are not available for rec-
reation purposes after school hours can be shut off
without interfering with the" rest of the plant. This
makes it possible for the open area, as well as
some common facilities as the woodshop, mechan-
ical shops, drawing rooms, rooms for dramatic ac-
tivities, music, dancing, nature study, to be used
on a continuing basis after school hours until ten
o’clock at night for crafts, games, physical activi-
ties, and cultural opportunities for children as well
as for adults.

With reference to the use of equipment, the
Board of Education has a recreation budget each
summer which supplements the municipal recrea-
tion budget, and through the use of these funds
the Recreation Commission employs woodshop
teachers, who operate these shops on a recreation
basis for a period of from eight to ten weeks each
summer. Some materials are supplied, the teach-
ers’ salaries are paid, and the "children are re-
quired to furnish the more expensive supplies, such
as lumber. However, enough material is avail-
able if a child can not afford to buy such material.
WPA workers have been used as assistants at both
school centers and municipal playgrounds.

The Board of Education, the Superintendent of
Schools and Business Department, in fact the en-

‘tire school community, are very liberal in their

711

712 THE WISER USE OF THE SCHOOL PLANT

interpretations concerning the use of these facili—
ties and these areas. It is their thought that these
should be used to the fullest extent with duplica-
tion of effort entirely eliminated.

I have merely used Long Beach and Milwaukee
as an illustration of what can be done along these
lines, but there are other instances throughout the
country—by far too few—where communities have
recognized that adults need recreation and relaxa-
tion after their mechanized daily work. The Long
Beach schools particularly emphasize vocational
adjustment and readjustment, and advancement,
and thus such advancements in many of the voca-
tional fields in which the individuals are earning
their bread become very important issues. The
taxes that have already been levied on the citi-
zenry, paid directly and indirectly by many, if not
by most of those who use these facilities, return
to them with interest.

In Long Beach and in Shorewood, the recrea-
tional and vocational programs include cultural
studies, arts and crafts, hobbies of all descriptions,
games, sports, musicales, social events, community
singing festivals, concerts, club activities, and an
endless list of other interests.

Redesigning for Wiser Use

The school houses that are to be constructed in
the future must be planned in such a manner as
will make them the “beacon” of the community, a
magnet that will draw to it willingly the millions
of school youth, who within the next decade or
two will occupy important positions of leadership
in civic life, business, professions, politics, religion,
and education. Such buildings, too, will have to be
planned so that the adults of the community may
share equally in these facilities in their leisure
time, which is ever growing.

Drama Facilities. The other day, in discussing
the Little Theaters in
America, with an out—

serving as actors, and technicians. This brings us
to the point where we must think in terms of so
building our school houses that the auditorium
may be used not only for lecture forums, assem—
blies, and occasional musicales, but for little theater
presentations with the members of the local group
taking part. It is by providing these facilities in a
manner .herein described that adult education,
which should make up part and parcel of the school
program—providing that the type of educational
environment exemplified in the Shorewood plan is
provided—will become attractive, fascinating, en-
joyable, and exciting. The school architect of the
future will have to have included in his courses one
on social philosophy. He will have to be imbued
with the same spirit that Patrick Gedes possessed
when he thought and planned for the City Beauti—
ful; with the same inspiration that William Morris
had when he thought in terms of physical, human
comforts.

Social Rooms. Thus we may look forward to the
time when there will be no formal class rooms with
fixed seats, where instead rooms will be designed
in attractive colors with comfortable chairs and
tables of varying sizes, arranged to meet the con-
venience of intimate discussion groups, and social
lounges will be furnished in the same manner as
those of the line club houses. The walls, hallways,
and rooms will be used for exhibition purposes,
bringing the best of the arts that the community
possesses, so that those who come in daily contact
with these facilities may be inSpired by the imagi-
nation of the creators in these fields. Arrange-
inents should also be made to permit smoking for
adults in recreation rooms, club rooms, and other
places.

Art and Craft Workshops. Schools should also
be designed to contain workshops for the arts and
‘crafts. The creation of

material things adds to

standing educator who
lived for a time in a
southern community, I
was interested to hear
him say that it is not un-
usual in many cities in
America,especiallythose
with a population of less
than 500,000, for the
leaders in that commu—
nity to be the active par-
ticipants in a production
which they presented,

"Many areas of the school plant may be used for
recreation purposes. Shops may be used for wood-
working and metal groups: gymnasiumsI playgrounds
and swimming pools are suitable for sportsI clubs
and games: the auditorium is useful for recreative
programs in dramatics and music; laboratories may
be used for photography clubs; and classrooms may
be made available for meetings of various types.
These facilities, as well as all others possessed
by the community, should be available for general
recreation purposes. Communities have too much
invested in school properties to limit their use to
the hours school is in session; they should be used
afternoons, eveningsI and during vacation periods.'I

—From Health in Schools, Twentieth Yearbook.

American Association of School Administrators.

the enrichment of liv-
ing ; particularly in these
days when considerable
attention is paid to the
development of mecha-
nized activities, it is im-
portant that people be
given the opportunity
to express themselves
through the arts and
crafts.

Homemaking Classes.
In a chapter on home

' THE “USER USE OF THE SCHOOL PLANT 713

living laboratories, the'En-
gelhardts refer to a pamph-
let, entitled “Emergency
Adult Homemaking Educa—
tion,” by Van Lieu and
Button, in which the follow—
ing appears: “The centers
chosen for homemaking
classwork should make the
homemakers feel free to
come. A meeting in a set-
tlement house, or a neigh-
borhood house will 'some-
times attract more women than one held in a

school house, which they seldom visit. The center-

should be centrally located, and shOuld have suf-
ficient equipment to make adequate teaching pos-
sible.” There is a hominess in the group work
approach on the part of leaders and the neighbor-
hood house or community center that must become
a part of planning and the thinking of the school
house, in order for it to be able to bring to its
doors the adult members of the community in the
same manner as do other types of agencies.

'Adapting the School to the People’s Needs

On the whole, the idea of the school house being
used by the adults of the community, as well as
by the youngsters may be approached in the thought
that the child is compelled to go to school, while
adult attendance is not compulsory. The program
in the schools for youth is determined by the gov-

erning body, not by the pupils. The activities to_

be engaged in, in the school house, by adults at
other times than when used for youth, are deter-
mined by the adults themselves, namely, by the
groups using these facilities. The adult program
is based on the realities of life, and on the partici-
pation of persons in society.

The community school of tomorrow will under
such circumstances become the center in which
the real needs of people will be met.

Spaces for All Ages. The Engelhardts in their
book, Planning the Community School, dévote a
full chapter to indoor game spaces, and activities
to be provided in such spaces for all age groups:
the seventeen to thirty-three year old group,
thirty—three to forty year old group, and the forty
years and up group. They refer in their study to
Caswell Miles, who has developed a comprehen-
sive list of major adult sports, which may suggest
the plant provisions to be made. For example, in
the seventeen to thirty-three year old group, under

"Why not utilize the gymnasia and the play-
grounds of our schools for real community
centers morning. noon and night, for twelve
months of the year? Since education is a
continuing processI there surely are mil-
lions to whom such an opening of the school
facilities would be a godsend. Is this an
idea too difficult of attainment? Why
maintain an educational plant to house
thirty million young Americans on a thirty
hour week for a little more than nine months
of the year?"—Lym2 V. Stambaugb, Na-
tional Commander of the American Legion.

the heading of “Socials,”
Miles speaks of masquer-
ades, social dancing parties,
treasure hunts, roller skat-
ing, canoeing parties, clam-
bakes, hiking and camping,
water pageants, bowling and
archery. 'Under the “B”
classification, representing
group, individual, and dual
activities, he refers to hik-
ing and camp craft, tennis,
golf, horseback riding, pad—
dle tennis, badminton, squash, handball, speedball,
volleyball, kick ball, wall kick ball, giant volleyball,
bat ball, etc. In the “C” classification, under
“Teams,” he refers to softball, basketball, field
ball, field hockey, list or punch ball.

Program for Older People. What is of special
interest is the group forty years of age and up,
remembering that our youth population through-
out the world, and in the United States particu-
larly is being constantly reduced, that our “old
age” group is increasing, and that provision will
have to be made for their leisure. The group activi-
ties of a sedentary nature must be well chosen,
and adequately provided. Dual and individual ac-
tivities of a mild nature and those where the in—
dividual or group is interested in team games only
as a spectator, are listed also by Mr. Miles. These
are card parties, square dances, social dancing
broken up with small games not requiring bend-
ing, table games, calisthenics, excursions by boat
or car, concerts and socialized recreation with
familiar groups. In the group, under dual and in-
dividual games, he indicates the following; ping-
pong, shuffleboard, horseshoes, deck tennis, bowl-
ing on the green, croquet, golf, swimming, arch—
ery, badminton, etc.

What Youth Want. Many studies have been
made of cellar clubs, which are better known as
basement clubs. An extensive survey was made by
the University of Chicago a number of years ago.

.Another study was undertaken by the Henry

Street Settlement of New York, under the direc-
tion of Susan Jenkins. It is captioned, “Rooms of
Their Own.” A study of twenty-eight lower East
Side social clubs was made. In connection with
these studies it is a challenge to social workers and
educators when they hear a comment like the fol—
lowing that was made by a member of one of
these clubs, indicating the particular need for pro-

714 THE I/VISER USE OF THE SCHOOL PLANT

munities will be improved only as their citizens
become better versed in the principles of commu-
nity living and have opportunity for study and
practice in all realms of the arts, sciences, and
group activities affecting community life. .

vision for social recreation of youth, particularly
those of that respective community: “We work
hard, and we are tired at night. We need a place
near home, a place of our own to do the things we
want. We can’t depend on a meeting place. We

need a real youth center. \N e need a place to hang
out.” Provision for youth beyond school age
should be considered a part of an adequate adult

education program.

Cooperation wifh Museums. All these studies
clearly point out the need for arrangements to be
made with large museums in metropolitan cities,
such as art museums, natural history museums,
arid similar type cultural and education enterprises,
to make it possible for the schools in the outlying
districts of these communities to have loan ex-
hibits. These might be traveling exhibits from
time to time. The Field Museum of Natural His-
tory in Chicago makes it possible for all of the
schools and private agencies in the city, as well as
camps during the summer, to benefit by the mag-
nificent collection of cases they have, containing
examples of various phenomena—wbirds, botanical
exhibits, the history and development of certain
products, such as coffee, tea, cocoa, cotton, tobacco,
etc. Such museums may also have collections of
instruments, manuscripts and records of folk music
and drama, the dance, and other arts. There may
be a reference and lending library associated with
these museums, of works and records which the
individuals living in the community may borrow.

Increased Importance of School Use

Must we not definitely think in these days par—
ticularly in terms of the wider use of the school
plant in the spirit indicated in this presentatiOn, in
the light of what all social thinkers (though they
not exclusively) are recommending as to what will
constitute the proper school plant during the post-
war period? Education for family life, under-
standing of children, home—building, economic ad—
justment, personal freedom and tolerance,_ im—
provement of community government, elimination

of graft and crime, and the stimulation of whole-~

some cultural aims can only be secured for the
masses when our public school facilities are planned
and used for such worth-while objectives.

A new stimulation of community consciousness
and the creation of new community solidarity
would produce considerable enhancement of demo—
cratic living throughout our nation. Our nation
will be as strong as (its communities. Our com—

The question that each one of us must ask our—
selves is whether the school cannot function more
intimately in economic rehabilitation and social
recreation of all of its citizens and how the com-

munity program can best be developed toward
this end.

Is it not putting it mildly; when we call atten—
tion to the nearsightedness and bad business of
having plants costing literally hundreds of millions
of dollars working on a thirty or forty per cent
operating basis? It would be wise, it seems to me,
to implant in the intelligence of our citizenry at
large the need for insisting that those whom they
put in power to conduct the educational and recre—
ational business of their community see to it that
its plants and its program meet the fullest needs
of each and every citizen of that community along
these lines, and thus create the kind of positive
citizenship dividends that are bound in time to
result from such a perfectly logical procedure. .

“Modern communities follow the principle of
using and wearing out their physical properties
whenever physical, social, recreational, or educa-
tional gains for human beings are advanced there—
by. No school in a community . . . will have much
value if the community social life is stagnant, if
its economic structure is tottering, and its popu—
lation does not know how to live. Our school
buildings must be used to the utmost for serving
humanity. If not Originally planned to serve ex—
tensively, rehabilitation may well be in order. Our
people are living in a new age, with ‘new aims, and
with a philosophy which seeks to have each day
contribute its maximum to human living and wel-
fare. The schools can play a much more realistic
role than they have played in the past. Our com—
munities must become better integrated working
units in our society. One of the first steps to be
taken is the development of the community’s phy—
sical facilities so that the real needs of the people
are met. Boards of education and community
planning groups will find it inspiring as well as
advantageous to join in this common program for
community uplift.”—From Planning the Comm-n—
m'ty School by Engellzardt and Engelhardt.

.Ireland's Patron Saint

HE FACTS that are known
Tabout St. Patrick are

equalled only by the
legendry which has grown up
about him. It is generally as-
sumed that St. Patrick came to
a pagan and barbarian country
which had never heard of
Christianity. This is untrue,
as Christianity had been re-
membered in parts of south
‘Ireland for over a hundred
years.

Also involved in legendary was the birthplace
of St. Patrick. This name indicates that he was
of Roman nobility, and Dr. Eoin MacNeill, the
Irish scholar and historian, says that he was born
in Britain, sections of which at that time were
part of the Roman Empire. Other authorities have
placed his birthplace in Belgium, Scotland, and
Wales. One tradition is that he was a nephew of
St. Martin of Tours. However, the facts in them-
selves need no embellishment to create wonder
that Ireland was the only nation to be Christian-
ized without the spilling of one drop of blood.

St. Patrick was the warrior of the word, a
logician of high order, and his art of conversation
appealed to the basic characteristic of the Irish
for disputation. Patrick was also an eminent psy-
chologist ; he never destroyed tradition but rather
adapted it to his purposes. Thus many of the
features of Irish sun worship and Druidic lore
became interwoven into the Christian feasts. It is
said that once, while all Ireland waited on Easter
morning for the tires to be lighted on Tara Hill,
St. Patrick started one on the Hill of Slane which
was seen from Tara. Today Easter Sunrise Ser—
vices on hilltops honor the risen Savior. A touch
of the ancient lire-lighting ceremony is to be found
in the custom of placing, on the eve of Easter, a
dish of water outside the house where the sun will
play upon it in the morning and the reHections will
dance upon the ceiling inside the house.

St. Patrick’s Day in America

The celebration of St. Patrick’s Day in America
began back in the days of the American Revolu-
tion, and, as a matter of fact, the St. Patrick’s

By WALTER HERRON

We need to know more than many oi
us do about the origin and significance
of some of the special days which are
celebrated in America. March |7th
is known as "St. Patrick's Day." What
are the facts about Ireland's patron
saint? What legends are associated

with his life? When and how did the

observance of the day start in this
country? Mr. Herron answers some
of these questions in his article.

Day parade is an American in—
stitution. On March 17, 1776,
the day the British evacuated
Boston and the Americans
marched in and took posses-
sion, General \Vashington, in
the camp at Cambridge, author-
ized as the parole for the day
“Boston” and the counter-
sign, “St. Patrick,” and he ap-
propriately appointed General
Sullivan the Brigadier of the
day.

The honor paid to St. Patrick in the American
Revolutionary army was a natural result of the
fact that about thirty per cent. of the army was
Irish——(_ see army muster rolls published by Michael
J. O’Brien)+and as all American patriots knew,
the Irish people and the Irish Parliament unani-
mously supported the cause of American Inde-
pendence.
~ In the language of the minutes of the Society of
the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick of Philadelphia,
Washington himself was “unanimously adopted a
member of the society” on December 18, 1718,
and his reply to a letter from the President ten-
dering him the badge of the society is still pre-
served among its papers. It reads:

“I accept with singular pleasure the en-
sign of so worthy a fraternity as that of the
Sons of St. Patrick in this city, a society dis-
tinguished for the firm adherence of its mem-
bers to the glorious cause in which we are
embarked. Give me leave to assure you, Sir,
that I shall never cast my eye upon the badge
with which I am honored but with a grateful
remembrance of the polite and affectionate
manner in which it was presented.”

On January I, 1782, \Vashington attended a
dinner of the Society, and on the 18th of March
of the same year he was present at the St. Patrick’s
Day banquet of the Friendly Sons, accompanied
by some of the most distinguished officers of the
American and French armies. On the membership
roll of this famous Irish Society at this time are
found the names of Generals “'ayne, Butler,
Hand, Irvine and Moylan. Major Charles Mc—
Henry, for whom Fort McHenry was named, was

715

716 IRELAND’S PATRON SAINT l

Washington’s private secretary and was born in
Ireland.

Legends Regarding St. Patrick

Many legends have grown up around the life
of St. Patrick and some of them are without
doubt true.

Here is one story told by Fr. John Ryan, a
well—known authority on St. Patrick: Every year
on the banks of the river Loire in France, at a
spot called St. Patrice, there occurs an amazing
phenomenon. In the depths of winter, in the midst
of even the severest snows, a thorn tree puts forth
fresh blossoms as white as those of the spring-
time. It is told that once St. Patrick, on his way
to Tours in mid—winter, rested under that thorn
tree and feel asleep, and that in his honor it cov-
ered itself with blossoms and has continued to do
so ever since. It is also given on good authority
that St. Patrick used the shamrock as a symbol to
illustrate the Holy Trinity, showing three separate
leaves on one stem as three persons in one God.

The harp has been a symbol of Irish culture
and music for probably two thousand years.
Ancient Irish literature abundantly proves that
the harp was used in Ireland from a very early
date, and the historian of Irish music, William
Henry Grattan Flood, shows that the Irish harp
is found represented in illuminated manuscripts
at least as early as the close of the 9th century.
Dante was familiar with the Irish harp and its
music, which was indeed famous throughout
Europe during the middle ages.

The earliest harps were little and were used in
a kind of an orchestra. From them the larger
ones gradually developed.

The oldest existing Irish harp is the “O’Brien
Harp” in Trinity College, Dublin, which long
passed under the name of “Brian Boru’s Harp.”
It belonged to Donnchadh Cairhre O’Brien, King
of Thomond, who died March 8, 1242. It has
thirty strings, four sounding boards, and is thirty-
two inches high. The “cruit,”
a small harp, is referred to
by an Irish poet who lived
four centuries before Christ,
and on the shrine of St.
Moedhre is a figure of a
harper playing this instru-
ment with eight strings.

The eminence of music as
a principal feature of Irish
culture makes the harp per-

World.

Of the old literature which St. Patrick
sought to save are the following:

All that did not contradict Holy Writ.

All tales of noble deeds of men and tory, genealogical research
women of Old Erin—tales that might win

loyalty to generous and noble action of
,the youth of Erin and of all the Western

All humor that might gladden and
strengthen. and all beauty that might
soothe or inspire the hearts of men.

for the fact that it was the most prominent symbol
of the Irish Bag for several centuries until the
present tricolor (green, white, and gold) Irish
Flag was adopted in 1921.

Even after the ravages of centuries, there still
exists a great quantity of Irish music of which
many thousands of compositions have been re-
corded, while research workers are still busy fer-
reting out tunes cherished by the Irish people and
never hitherto set down in modern musical
notation.

As for the use of the pig, the pipe, and the hat
as Irish symbols, it is stated by students and au-
thorities in these matters that they are used purely I
as commercial devices by the manufacturers of I
cards and favors, by the enemies and critics of the |
Irish, and are derived from the stage Irish cari- I
catures invented by cheap comedians of the late
18th and early 19th centuries, who would, need-
less to say, use any means possible to get a laugh,
and were not authorities on Irish culture nor over I
considerate of the correctness of their picture of
Irish life.

W hen Patrick came to Ireland in 432 A.D., he
found one of the most civilized peoples in all
Europe. At least, they practiced a better system
of herding and agriculture, and had more respect
for the arts and crafts of the common man than
any other people in Europe at that time. They
also had a vast store of literature in the form of
records, poetry and story.

Patrick loved the Irish character and the lan-
guage and literature in which it was expressed.
He struggled to save them and to reconcile them
with Christian character and literature.

haps the most valid Irish symbol, and accounts I
I

 

 

Note: Some of our readers will be interested in
knowing that an article entitled “Ancient Celtic
Harp Music,” by James Travis, appears in the 1941
Journal of the American Irish Historical Society,
whose headquarters are at 991 Fifth Avenue, New
York City. At headquarters
there is a valuable library
which is being constantly
consulted by students in his—

and a great variety of re—
lated subjects. The Society
has a membership of twenty—
two hundred individuals
scattered throughout the
United States.

Through Neighbors' Doorways

THE INTRICATE patterns of A gay and colorful folk festival in to the public as well as to the
l

he Mexican Hat Dance or Wol‘lfl'l 4-H CIUb members Of We“ Vlr' 4-H-ers. Enthusiasts com-
glma danced over the thresholds of menced to give folk dance

their Canadian cousms to the north. demonstrations at out_0f_town

and through the patio gateways of .
their Latin neighbors to the south meetlngs- C1111) leaders [Pegan
to write in for free bulletlns of

folk dances and singing games.

By JANE FARWELL The carry—over of interest

' from camp in the communities

was especially heartening. Club members were

persuaded to suspend folk dancing during the

rural W est Virginia enter into a variety of recre— _ summer months only after extracting the promise

ative events offered through the 4—H Club program that this activity would be continued at county
all year around. . camp. ,

In the counties of the Northern Panhandle, as The annual round-up of 4-H Club play activities
well as in the rest of the state, the highlight of the is ordinarily climaxed by the 4-H Regional Fair
year’s prOgram is the opportunity of going to at Oglebay, with all live counties participating in
county camp every summer. recreational events as well as in
During this week of inspiration the exhibit of prize-winning
and fellowship, such play activi- projects. However, in the last
ties as “singing games,” folk two years the Fair has given

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

the merry measures of a
Canadian quadrille are as fa-
miliar to 4-H Club members in
the Northern Panhandle of
West Virginia as “third year
sewing” or “feeder calves.” In
line with a plan for four-fold
development in which Heart and Head play as
much part as Hand and Health, boys and girls of

Miss FarwellI the director of the
festival, is the assistant recrea-

tion specialist. Cooperative Exten-

dances, and folk songs share the sion Work in Agriculfure and Home way to an annual Regional Folk
EconomicsI State of West Virginia

schedule with regular Festival and Play Day.

   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  

camp classes in hand-
crafts, courtesy, good
grooming, charting a life
course, and an active
athletic program.

Lately arrived in the
camping program, folk
dances and play-party
games were undertaken
on a trial basis just a
year ago, sometimes a
little warily where “danc—
ing” as a sport had for-
ever been excluded. In
most instances enough
response was shown to
warrant organizing folk
groups in two or three
'localities in each county,
:meeting every two weeks
throughout the winter
lmonths. Groups near
glebay Park, the region—
a1 center, revived the old
“play-parties” which are
iopen every Monday night

 

Sheer fun and good fel—
lowship is the main pur-
pose of the day. Present—
ing a show and promot—
ing a “theme” are sec—
ondary, though the con—
tagious spirit of fun en—
joyed by the participants
usually catches enough
among the spectators to
make the simplest antics
a “good show.”

This year the commit-
tee sponsoring the Festi-
val, comprising 4-H lead—
ers and extension work-
ers from all counties par—

. ticipating, wanted a gen-
eral theme that would
symbolize the 4—H spirit
of friendship. “Through
Neighbors’ Doorways”
was the answer, for good
neighborliness begins at
home—and our festival
this year would step over

717

718 THROUGH NEIGHBORS’ DOORWAYS

 

the worn thresholds of our
Canadian cousins to the north,
and through the patio gateways
of our Latin neighbors to the south.

Had our enthusiasm fallen short of our ambi-
tious plans, we might have stumbled earlier on the
realization that source material on the costumes,
folk dances, and folk lore of our near neighbors
just does not exist in the same abundance as the
well-thumbed volumes of folk lore from Europe.
Mr. Zanzig’s Singing America was our only source
until “Music’s Good Neighborliness in the Ameri—
cas” in the April issue of RECREATION not only re-
inspired us, but opened up a new field of exploraa
tion. We appealed to Mrs. Concha Romero James
at the Pan American Union in Washington who
responded with encouragement and the generous
offer of a Pan American exhibit, colorful posters,
information on Latin American music and dances.
It helped. We drew up our general outline, but we
soon discovered that comprehensive books on
South American dances are usually out of print or
in Spanish. '

In Pittsburgh we found the Decca Album No.
28 of Spanish and llfexican Dances, but no infor—
mation on how to do the dances. The local library
had one contribution to make— Mary E. Sham-
baugh’s Falls Festivals which included the music
and instruction for four dances of Spanish and
Mexican origin. A. S. Barnes and Company came

At the end of the program came a
session of general folk dancing
for participants and Spectators

forth with Legends and Dances.
of Old M ea'ico by Schwenenderl
and Tibbels over which we poured
during several all-night sessions, perfecting the
steps of E1 Jarabe, dancing to one of the records
in our newly purchased album. Mexican and
New il/Iexican Folkdances by Mela Sedillo arrived
from the University of New Mexico Press, Albu-
querque, putting us at ease when we found that it
included a number of dances, simple, yet active
enough to interest adolescents. Browsing around
in the cupboard where “complimentary copies”
are hoarded, we unearthed Swing Your Partner,
Old Time Dances of New Brunswick and Nova
Scotia by Lois S. Fahs, 99 Claremont Avenue,
New York City. This, with the French Canadian
songs in Singing America gave us enough material
to salute our neighbors to the north. Incidentally,
“La Cuisinere” makes a good accompaniment for a
Canadian contra dance such as Lady of the Lake.I
Then two hundred and fifty boys and girls in
live counties began to work on their particular
part of the festival. Some were to sing in choruses,
others were in the orchestra (marimba, accordion,
castanets, and maracas), many were in the vari—
ous dance groups, and still others were to help on
the ever important stage crew. But everyone had
a costume, and in most cases, made it himself.
Recommended by Mrs. Concha James, Alejandro
I ’. Carrillo, Bucareli 160, Mexico, D. F. was espe-

cially cooperative in sending us sarapes, Harvester
and Charro sombreros, and other accessories at
very reasonable prices. (Hats at about 40 cents
and sarapes $2.00, duty paid.)

The fact that the old barn at Oglebay Park was
packed with rural people on the day of the festival
was enough to put the fiesta” spirit into everyone’s
blood. A large rectangle of floor Space was roped
off in addition to the stage and was overhung with
the same sort of gay paper festoons that brighten
the streets and squares at carnival time. Most
colorful of all were the twenty—two flags hanging
from the rafters around the stage, one for each
country in the Pan American Union, and one for

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  

at 85 Fifth Avenue, New York, $3.50 a set and
20 cents extra for the Canadian flag.

The stage was our real pride and joy. Incor-
porating some of the ideas in A Pan American
Carnival, issued by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, we thought it looked more like a Mexican
market than the real thing. Red tile roofs and an
iron gateway for our neighbors’ doorways, and
leaning here and yon among the stalls and flowers,

a half dozen Mexicans with sombreros pulled
down over their faces, fast asleep.

On the program was this simple introduction:
“We present the following program of folk songs
and dances of the Western Hemisphere, in the sin-
cere belief that getting acquainted with the music
of other American peoples will bring us closer to
the spirit of our neighbors who, like ourselves, are
dedicated to the democratic way of life.”

shoved back against the wall and everyone who
could possibly End space on the floor got on and
tried some of the folk dances. That was really the
triumph of the evening, for it was only then that
we were sure the audience really shared the fun
we were having, as old and young, Mexicans,
Canadians, and western cowboys, jostled elbows
nd stepped on each others toes.

The Program

The following program of folk songs and dances
f the Western Hemisphere was presented in the

incere belief that getting acquainted with the
° of other American peoples will bring us
loser to the spirit of our neighbors:

:3
5::
*2
n

ongs of America. .Brooke and Marshall County Chorus
Let’s Get Together

You Can Defend America
Home on the Range

Canada. We got them from Annin and Company _

When the program was over, all the chairs were

THROUGH NEIGHBORS" DOORWAYS 719

Western Cowboy Dances. . .Marshall County Folk Dance
Group
Rattlesnake Twist
Eight Hands Over

Far From My Native Land . . . . ..Brooke and Marshall
County Chorus

Mexican Varsovianna. . . . .Hancock County Folk Dance
Group .

Mexican Folk Songs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Seminole Chorus

Cielito Linda—favorite of both Americas
La C ucaracha—Mexican cockroach song

Mexican Cowboy Dances. . ...Ohio County Folk Dance
Group
La Cnearacha

El Jarabe—National Dance of Mexico

Cielito Lindo . . . . . . .Brooke and Marshall County Chorus

Spanish Dances of South America . . . . . ..Brooke COunty
Folk Dance Group

Fandango—Kenneth Gist and Gene Anne Porter
La feta—Entire Group

La Cuisinere—French Canada.. . . .Brooke and Marshall
County Chorus

Lady of the Lake. . . .Wetzel County Folk Dance Group
America the Beautiful.....Brooke County Chorus and
Entire Ensemble “

These numbers were followed by a square dance
contest, and the program ended with general folk
dancing in which all folk dance groups, as well as

spectators, were invited to join.
Bingo
Klappdance
Ace of Diamonds

Hungarian Vengierka
Kolo

Korobooska

Square Dance

Swiss Weggis Dance
Waves of Tory
Little Man in a Fix
Scotch Schottische
Square Dance

“If folk music and folk dancing, and rhythmic
and modern dancing can loosen up the joints of
American conservatism, bring people of many na-
tions to laugh and play together and thus make
more and more individuals aware that a world
community has already become a reality, then the
place of the recreation specialists in the agricultural
program should be as important as that of the spe-
cialists in animal husbandry, soil erosion, or the
science of plants.

“These folk events carry some of their auditors
to far places which they have never seen ; and they
also awaken memories of the homeland in many
who came from far countries to live on American
farms. There’s a two-way value to these programs :
they inspire new visions, dreams, and ambitions in
native Americans; and they renew old dreams and
stir old memories in Americans who came from
other lands to share their rich inheritance with

us.”———-lllarj0rie Patten in The Arts l‘Vor/eshof) of
Rural America.

What They Say About Recreation

" IIE SUPREME CHALLENGE to our nation is
Tthat this generation of so—called civilized
people should have the will te live together
unselfisth in peace, in kindness and in brother-
hood.”—Arnand C. Marts, President, Bucknell

University.

“Folk art is the source of all life for a nation,
the thing which came out of the soil and which
holds us still close to the heart of the earth.”—
Julia M. Seton in The C antiping ll/Iagaeine.

“Many persons occupy their ‘free time’ with
wholly irrational activities. By no means all these
activities are harmful, and some may be actually
beneficial. But they are pitifully inadequate reali-
zations of Aristotle’s concept of leisure as ‘the
growing time of the human spirit.’ ”—From The
Literature of Adult Education.

“The primary virtue of recreation is not any of
its various utilitarian values but its direct and im-
mediate effect of increasing the stature of human
life.”—Wrenn and Harley in Time on Their Hands.

“The development of community spirit is essen-
tial today to ensure real morale. . . . The enthusi-
asm and community consciousness (essentially
‘belonging’ and participating) aroused by interest
in defense must not be allowed to die away after
the war.”—~Andrew E. Rice, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts.

“In a time of crisis like the present, we appre-
ciate art more than in normal times, for art does
more than please the eye—it touches the soul."—
Thomas J. lVatson in Think, December 1941.

_-

“After the war we may expect either a danger-
ous restlessness or an equally dangerous apathy
unless we are as energetic in organizing peace as

we have been in organizing war.”-—-Dr. Robert
Die/e Gillespie.

“Cultural relations—which have been happily
defined as a"better mutual comprehension of one
another’s ways’—serve to provide that underlying
basic understanding and community of interest and
effort essential to continuing and effective coopera-
tion among the American nations.”——Charles A.
Thomson, Chief, Division of Cultural Relations.

720

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
   
  
  

“Culture is not just an ornament; it is the ex-
pression of a nation’s character, and at the same
time it is a powerful instrument to mould charac—
ter.”—VV. Somerset Maugham.

“There is an idea abroad among moral people
that they must make their neighbors good. One
person I have to make good—myself. My duty to
my neighbor is more nearly expressed by saying
that I have to make him happy if I may.”—Robert
Louis Stevenson.

“More money going out for food and rent will
leave less for pleasure. We will all be learning
parlor games, going on picnics in nearby parks,
and taking advantage of community recreation
facilities.”——Colestone E. W arne in New York
Times.

“Living in a world of uncertainty, we are going
to discover how pleasant it is to be able to own
something that is beautiful, that we really love and
that gives us a background of contentment.”—

Eleanor Roosevelt, speaking as Honorary Chair
man of Art Week.

f‘It is the compelling office and duty of th
municipality to stimulate and help all cultural an
artistic endeavors.”—H. E.“ Vargas, Director 0
Parks and Public Property, Cleveland, Ohio.

“Wholesome play furnishes a rich field for th
development of character in the same manner tha
a certain soil will grow the healthiest plants. . .
Play of itself cannot be expected to develop th
right type of moral qualities; it merely furnishe
the opportunity for their development.”—]ohn H
White.

“Our nation has a need for healthy, vigorou
citizens. To make this possible there must be th
security of work, adequate and suitable foo
health services, educational and recreational o
portunities, secure family and religious values.”
Rosalind Cassidy in Progressive Education.

“We should choose those arts and crafts th
have developed step by step with the needs of t
race, and that hold unlimited possibilities for e.
ploration, adventure and accomplishment.”—Clie

ter G. Marsh.

The Horizon Club

among women of eighty—-

or whatever the age when
one is comfortably looking
back on things, and ask them
during what years of their
life they felt most important,
I wonder if the vote wouldn’t
go to the last five years of
teenhood.

Come fifteen, the adult
vorld begins to brush off its
threshold and make ready to welcome a responsi—
ble person with ability to cope with freedom. This
's the period of the-worldiis—my-oyster . . . a very
wonderful feeling and one that should be made
he most of. At this point we have the saddle-
hoe set almost too ready and eager to get into
he swing of things.

Their personality patterns, according to. the

IF WE COULD take a poll

A new, program developed by
the Camp Fire Girls to serve
the girl in the years which
to her, at least, seem the

most important of her life

By MARCIA LEE
Camp Fire Girls. Inc.

psychologists, have long been
forming. The question is,
what remains to be done?
Isn’t there a little brushing
and preening or cultivating
needed in this figurative per-
iod of walking over the thres-
hold? Actually, there are lots
of rough edges between ado-
lescence and adulthood. With
some girls there is no diffi—
culty smoothing them out, in
others they remain jagged, but if there is a way
to help with the preening, it’s worth a try.
Leisure-time activity programs are now uni—
versally recognized as important in the formation
of personality—in setting the foundation for good
citizenship. They have been successful with the
very young, but recreation groups are still testing
ground where the young adult is concerned. Al-

 

721

722 THE HORIZON CLUB

most over night the teens lose interest in organi-
zations that kept them happily occupied the month
before.

One of the interesting new recreation programs
that is dealing with this bridging-the-gap prob-
lem is the Horizon Club established by the Camp
Fire Girls. These clubs, made up of girls of sen-
ior high school and junior college age, were actu-
ally started by the girls themselves—girls who had
grown up in group activity, who knew the real
fun of working together and recognized the value
of group accomplishment. But they were con-
cerned with the new problems on their horizon.
One of the problems was this sudden awareness
of their own personalities—how to get along with
boys, how to be popular, how to use all their fine
enthusiasm, their idealism, and their knowledge—
in short, how to fit into the adult world.

The problem Camp Fire faced was only that of
gathering together the needs and finding a work—
able answer. Groups of older Camp Fire Girls
had done much of this groundwork themselves.
They planned and executed projects that interested
them and reported successes and failures. They
wrote to National Headquarters about the ques-
tions that occupied them. Thus, through the teen
age girls themselves, was a program evolved.

The Horizon Club program as it was finally set
up represents a working basis for the accomplish-
ment of the things really vital to girls of this age.
It suggests many approaches to problems of im-
mediate concern to them and many activities to
plan and enjoy together. Here are some of the
chapter headings of the H orieon Club Program
Book:

“The General Iiiipressi01i”——designed to help
girls help each other look at themselves critically:
their looks, their walk, their voice, their health.
their dress.

“Personality”—a consideration of what makes
a happy, well-adjusted, useful person, with special
accent on relationships with family and friends

“Good Times”—a basis for setting standards of
relationships with boys, for planning recreation of

all kinds

“Streamlined Service”—an outline of the type
of community service that every girl is able to
give and wants to give

“Our VVorld”-—-a guide to understanding of the
individual’s place in a great world of individuals
“Futures”-—-—~plans for exploration of aptitudes

   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   

and opportunities to help in fitting the individual
into her happiest and most productive place.

In preparing the program, an advisory commit-
tee of representative women from varied fields gav
their services. On the National Advisory Com
mittee are: Margaret Speaks, radio and concer
singer; Henrietta Ripperger, author of “Tips t
the Teens,” in Good Housekeeping; Hildegar
Fillmore, Style and Beauty Editor, McCall’
Alice Marble, tennis star and, at present, Nation
Director of Physical Training for Women und
the Office of Civilian Defense; Alice Hughe
syndicate fashion writer; Betty Eckhardt Ma
Director, National Citizens Committee, Whi
House Conference 011 Children in a Democrac
Esther Eberstadt Brooke, Director, Mrs. E.
Brooke Personnel Service. Other members of t
committee are Maureen Daly, young author
Seventeenth Summer, and Joan Leslie, motio
picture starlet, who add their inspiration of youtl
ful accomplishment.

The response to the program leaves no doub
as to its relevancy. Horizon Clubs have sprun
up all over the country, introducing themselve.
with smoothly run formal dances and then ener
getically digging into these self-chosen activities
These are typical reports that have been received

The fifteen clubs in Grand Rapids, Michigan
have organized a Speakers Bureau and are havin
discussions on what makes a. good talk and on th
personal appearance of the speaker.
girls have had the Red Cross Junior First Ai
Course and many are taking the standard course
They have established a planning board for com
munity service activities.

In San Diego, the Horizon Clubs also have
Speakers Bureau and many speaking engagement
have been made for them. A big social event wa
their Dad-Daughter dinner to tell their father
about their “America’s Children” project. Th’
is a nation-wide project that grew out of the girl
interest in the report of the White House Confe
ence on Children in a Democracy. They are lear
ing about local facilities for the care and traini
of handicapped children, and they are finding wa)
to work both with and for these children, and,
the same time, learning much about the functi01
ing of city government and building a good foul
(lation for citizenship.

Horizon Clubs are active in the Camp Fire Se
(Continued on page 750)

 

    
 
  
  
 
 

ng groups.

At the Park a religious service actually opens '
he sprmg and summer season, for each spring for
he past thirteen years an Easter Sunrise Service

! 3 been scheduled out of

oors. The service planned

'5 simple, but the natural

eauty of the park forms a

\ tting which would make

my ceremony impressive.

_ I‘ udding trees, sprouting

hrubs, early spring blooms,

’ nd the sun rising over the

ills and climbing higher

5 the service progresses

I ke an inspiring back
I‘Op.

Easter audiences natur-

lly vary according to the

eather. Springlike

veather brings out capacity

 

PIRITUAL AND RELIGIOUS values are recognized
S as inherent in the philosophy of the recreation

movement, though religious services are only
occasionally made a definite part of the activities
. program. This has been done, however, at Ogle-
bay Park, Wheeling, West Virginia, where an
‘ Easter Sunrise Service and Interdenominational
. Sunday Vesper Services are held in a public park,
v. nd a resident chaplain is on hand to serve camp-

At Oglebay Park

an Easter Sunrise
Service ushers in the
spring season. and in
the summer months
Sunday Vesper Ser-
vices teaturing out-
standing speakers
attract thousands of
people every week

By J. E. HOFFMANN
Oglebay Institute

crowds of from 2,000 to 3,000. Cold, rain, or snow
cuts down the audiences measurably. The services
are short, averaging from thirty to forty-five min—
utes in length and are interdenominational.
During the summer the religious services take

the form of VeSper Services held out of doors.

Speakers at last summer's Vesper Services in-
cluded Rev. Henry W. A. Hanson. D.D.. LL.D..
President ot Gettysburg College; Rev. Bernard
Clausen. D.D.. Pastor of the First Baptist
Church. Pittsburgh; Rev. John A. Mackay.
D.D.. President of Princeton Theological Semi-
nary; Rt. Rev. R. E. L. Strider. D.D.. Bishop.
Protestant Episcopal Church. Diocese of West
Virginia; Rt. Rev. James H. Straughn. Bishop
of the Pittsburgh Diocese of the Methodist
Episcopal Church; Rev. Alexander Stacey. D.D..
Professor at Hartford Theological Seminary:
Rev. Robert MacGowan .D.D.. author of several
volumes ot poetry; Rev. William Bruce Wilson.
D.D.. Executive Secretary. Board of American
Missions. United Presbyterian Church: and
Rev. Jesse M. Bader. D.D.. Secretary. Federal
Council ot Churches of Christ in America.

Last year two college presidents, two bishops, a
radio-preacher and a poet-preacher, were among
the speakers at the services. Attracted by the

prominence of the speak-
ers and the natural beauty
and summer evening cool-
ness of the amphitheater,
people came in large num-
bers, and the Sunday eve-
ning program grew to be
one of the most successful
activities of the entire sea-
son, attracting as many
people as do the popular
music programs, Operatic
performances, and the Ar-
bor Day celebration.
Sponsored by the Wheel-
ing Ministerial Association,
the Vesper Service had the

723

724 RELIGIOUS SERVICES AT OGLEBAY PARK

active financial support of eight denominations
within the city and the moral support of all others.
These denominations (the Baptist, the Christian,
the Protestant Episcopal, the Evangelical and Re-
formed, the Lutheran, the Methodist, the Presby—
terian, and the United Presbyterian) each con-
tributed an equal share to the expenses of the sea—
son, apportioning their assessment .among the
various churches of their denomination. The actual
arrangements for the services, the securing of
speakers, the order of service, and other details
were cared for by Oglebay Institute through a
committee on religious activities.

This committee, after arranging their program
for the summer, awaited with interest the public
response to the services. Would the attendance
justify continuing programs of this type?

The first Vesper Service answered this question.
The parking lot was overHowing, and the amphi-
theater was nearly filled with 1,000 pe0ple. The
fact that practically every minister in town was
present testified to their interest and enthusiastic
support. These ministers announced the services
from their pulpits, placed the schedules on their
bulletin boards, distributed to their congregations
folders telling of the service, ran notices of Ves-
pers each week in their newspaper advertising, and
most of them discontinued their Sunday evening

services so that their congregations might attend
the outdoor Vespers.

- The Vespers were held at dusk during the
months of July and August. The services were
always simple. Each Sunday an outstanding choral
group volunteered to sing the anthems, but never
did the singing become a concert; the speaker was
always the important part of the program. Local
ministers, usually two of different denominations,
presided and took charge of various parts of the
service. Attendance at the evening services and at
the Easter Morning Sunrise Service last year
totaled more than 9,000 people.

In spite of the concentration of interest on these
special religious services, the spiritual life of the
camper within the park was not neglected, and a
divinity student was placed on the summer staff of
the Institute to serve as chaplain. His duties con-
sisted of arranging weekly services for camp
groups in the park and of assisting in‘the arrange-
ments for the Sunday Vespers. He was on call at
all times for speaking engagements and services to
other groups. His contacts extended to the caddy
camp, the music camp, nature camp, and 4-H
groups in the park, as well as to week-end camps.
He also responded to a number of calls for out-
of—the-park speaking engagements.

All nature makes ready
for the Easter season

 

Ccdgc Harmon.

    

it’s Kite Time!

winds begin to blow, and in craft
shops and homes, kites are con-
structed and preparations made for
hose hours of kite flying which hold
0 much enjoyment.
How many of the boys and girls
vho fly kites know how ancient or
ow scientific a pursuit they are fol—
o‘wing? Historically, according to
me authority, kite flying dates back
0 the Fourth Century B. C. when
ites were reported to have been in-
ented by Archytas of the Greek city
If Tarentum. It is possible, how-
ver, thatikite flying was known even

IN MARCH the “kite-catching”

fore this date in the Far East, a

rhere the tribal people of New Zea-
and and Asia have amassed a long
istory of kite flying.

In eastern countries kite flying is an ancient
ustom and a popular form of recreation. What
orse racing is to England, and baseball to the
Tn'ited States, kite flying is to Korea, Japan and
' ina. Korean men, women and children from
he king down fly kites during the first days of
he New Year, and in China, Kites Day, the ninth
c . y of the ninth month, is an important holiday.

It was a Korean general who, feeling the need
or reviving the spirits of his troops, attached a
ighted lantern to a kite and sent it up at night.
he troops regarded it as a divine augury of suc-
ess in battle. It was another Korean general who,
hen his forces were divided by a stream and his
nemy was prepared to take advantage of this
ifficulty, bridged the stream by first sending a
ite across and then attaching a cable to the kite
. ring. Even today kites are sometimes used in a
imilar way. Some of the greatest suspension
ridges have had their begin-
ing in lines carried across a

Gedge H armon

Comes March—and on its heels,
spring fever, marbles, roller
skates, and above all, kites!

string. Man-lifting military kites
have been used to some extent for
observation and signaling.

It is interesting that for years the
daily weather forecasts were based
upon reports from professional kite
flyers at the government weather
bureaus, but they have been replaced
by the airplane and balloon. Great
box kites carrying instruments for
recording conditions in the upper
air were sent up from one to three
miles high.

Every school boy and girl who
flies a, kite knows 110w Benjamin
Franklin with his famous kite and
key drew electricity from a storm
cloud. But when March comes they
are not, we suspect, thinking of this
great scientist or of kites as military
instruments, but merely as something with which
to have great fun. But lest it prove dangerous
fun, these safety rules should be followed:

I. Do not fly your kite near light, telephone and
trolley wires, or near high voltage transmis-
sion towers.

2. Do not use wire or tinsel twine of any sort.
Use only cotton string. Wet string is also a
conductor of electricity and will cause as
much damage as wire if brought into contact
with electric wires.

3. Do not use a kite with metal ribs.

4. Do not run across public highways while
flying a kite.

5. Fly your kite in open, unobstructed places
away from traffic, poles, and
power lines.

The National Recreation Association
has issued a bulletin. Kite Tourna-
ments, which contains suggestions
for conducting kite flying contests.
Price [0 cents. The Association will
be glad to furnish sources of informa-
tion on how to make and fly kites.

'ver by kites. Many a life has
en saved by kites which car-
'ed lifelines to stranded ships.
ite photography is common.
' he camera is fastened to the
,'te frame and operated by a

6. Do not attempt to climb
poles or knock down en-
tangled kites with stones.

7. Do not let your kite go over
radio aerials.

725

 

- 

  

in.‘

 11's! Cmbu Plots, id.

The Schools in Wartime

“ UN, RABBITS, RUN,” calls
R the teacher, and in-
stantly some twenty or
thirty little people disappear,
leaving no sign of their pres—
ence but an odd foot or two
sticking out from beneath the
desks. No, it is not a new
game for the infants’ school;
at least, it may be a game to the children, but it is
something more than that—it is practice in taking
cover against a sudden air raid.

In most schools gas-mask and shelter drills form
a regular feature of school life, to train the chil-
dren to meet a possible emergency without hurry
or confusion. The Head Teacher gives the signal
and the classes, accompanied by their teachers, file
out into the corridors and make their way to the
trenches, each taking its prescribed routes. A last
look around for any stragglers and then, when all
are assembled below ground, out comes the watch.
“Three minutes,” says the Head, “We can do
better than that.”

When day raids came the value of these drills
was amply proved. The siren took the place of the
Head T eacher’s signal; otherwise they were con-
ducted exactly as before, the children sometimes

726

formation.

These passages are reprinted from llThe
Schools in Wartime.ll issued by the Brit-
ish Ministry of Information on behalf of
the Board of Education and published by
H. M. Stationery Otiice, London. Dis-
tributed by the British Library of In-
New York.
permission of the Controller of His
Britannic Majesty's Stationery Office.

being hardly conscious that
this was the “real thing" and
not just another practice.

To tell the truth, the
younger children are inclined
to welcome change and move-
ment, and the “Sirens, Miss l”
rarely lacks a certain air of
cheerfulness, especially when
the issue of a sweet or biscuit ration may be in
prospect. Older children, however, once the
novelty has worn off, are less ready to interrupt
some interesting piece of work, and exclamations
have been heard of: “Bother, there’s the old siren
again.”

This is what happened at a nursery school when
the siren sounded during the period of the cus-
tomary afternoon sleep. The three-and—a-half and
four-year-olds—who are “prefects” in this school—
were aroused and went in perfect order, carrying
gas mask and blanket, down the steps, and took
up their places at the end of the shelter, where the
caretaker received them. The remaining adult pop-
ulation~—-—eight in number, including cook—formed
a chain from the playroom to the shelter steps, and
the bundles of two-year-olds, still asleep and rolled
in their blankets, were passed from end to end and

Reprinted by

 

THE SCHOOLS IN PVARTIME 7Z7

deposited on the shelter seats—still asleep! Then
whiSpered rhymes and stories were told the four—
year-olds, sweets eaten, and drinks of water given.
The whole thing was just a great adventure! . . .
Children’s resilience is often due to the fact that
they so quickly take the tone of their surround-
ings. Where parents are cheerful and show no
obvious signs of fear, as is usually the case, chil-
dren catch their spirit. When, on the other hand,
they show any anxiety, this is in some degree

passed on.

The Town Child in the Country
For the younger children from the towns the

change to the country has brought to life the.

familiar school pictures. The cows, pigs and lambs
sprinkled over the pages of the infant readers, so
long entirely static, have now moved and displayed
a never-suspected power. “They’re alive, they can
walk,” said a child of live who saw a‘sheep graz-
ing for the first time. “I thought they were only
pictures, but they’re really true.”

Little fear of animals has been noticed, but
rather blank amazement that the sentences read so
earnestly word by word in the classroom really
have a marvellous meaning. Then, too, the fruit
and vegetables hitherto seen on barrows and in
shop windows have been found on trees and
bushes, in gardens and fields. “But they’re in
boxes where I live”; “Ours grow in tins, they
aren’t dirty like that,” have been frequent com—
ments; while the discovery that milk does not

begin its existence inside a bottle has given great
surprise. Every infant has, in fact, had the thrill

of being a genuine explorer.

Indeed, to all children, irrespective of age or
character, life in the country has presented many
novelties. Most were impressed by the greater
quietness as compared with the din and clatter of
the streets at home. To some, this quiet was so
strange as to be a source of some alarm until it
was realized that it did not mean that everything
had stopped, or that something was up. Others
noticed the greater distance from school, school
was no longer just round the next corner. A real
walk to school, possibly taking dinner with you,
was something quite new.

But the greatest novelties were to be found upon
the farms, where the various activities have been
a constant source of interest and delight. In return
for these the children are generally found to be
entirely willing to forego the lure of the shop
window, the rush of traffic, the inevitable fish and
ships of their home towns. Even the cinema habit
-—at least twice weekly with the change of pro-
gramme—has lost its enslaving grip; although,
since films are shown on some evenings each week
in many villages, the evacuee child may be taken
to them occasionally, as is the country-bred child,
for a special treat. The habit of early-to-bed which
still survives in the country is being learned, with
good results on mind and body.

It is true to say that practically all the children

 

L.

have improved in physique, general health, poise
and bearing during their stay in the country.

Apart from clean, fresh air they have had the
benefit not only of more fresh vegetables and fruit,
but ,often of a change of diet. This has not perhaps
always been welcome at first, but has come to be
appreciated later and proved most beneficial. In—
creases in weight and height, rosier cheeks, greater
physical strength, have been not mere fiction but
sober fact. One London parent, on arrival in the
Reception area on a visit, did not recognize her
own daughter after five months’ absence, and had
to be convinced of her identity by the teacher.

New Contacts—New Interests

But the advantages are by no means all simply
physical. The experience of living for the first time
away from home has given to many children a new
poise and self—reliance, and more thoughtfulness
for others. Contact with a different way of life and
rubbing shoulders with country children—and for
that matter, with children from different kinds of
homes from other Evacuation areas~—have done
much to broaden the outlook of those whose lives
had been confined to a few streets. Learning to
live in someone else’s house, to think of others.
to entertain oneself instead of being entertained,
to realize the worth of those who labour to supply
much of the nation’s food—all these are elements
of education which could hardly have come to
most of these children but for evacuation.

They have been forced to fmd new amusements
and have found them readily and naturally in the
country. The games of the town streets have been
replaced by the interests of the countryside. In
town, amusement has often been sought from the
old game of “knocking down ginger,” throwing
stones at empty cans, roller skating on the pave-
ments, hopscotch and many other occupations
which seem so often to have a nuisance rather than
an amusement value! But in the country children
get fun from very different things—fishing, ram—
bling, cross—country running—but especially from
helping in the many and varied jobs on the farm
or in the garden. In their spare time the children
have learned to feed the poultry, to keep the runs
and houses clean and to do this or that in garden
or allotment. They seem particularly to have taken
to looking after animals—calves and pigs-——and
many have become expert milkers. Boys have
often developed into experienced helpers on the
land, learning how to use their tools and to guide

778 THE SCHOOLS IN I/VARTIME

simple machinery with practised skill; while some
of the girls have become quite proficient milkmaids
and dairymaids.

\Vhere the same games are played in town and
country alike, such as football or cricket, the fine
points followed in procedure are generally those
of country custom. Observers of the manoeuvres
of mixed groups of town and country children in
playground or on village green have sometimes
remarked: “The country child has won again,”
meaning that it has been the country children who
have called the tune and the town children who
have followed it. Rarely has the country child
adopted the manners, customs or speech of the
town visitor. On the contrary, the town child has
been most eager to imitate those of the country,
with the result that, after a time, the evacuees are
scarcely distinguishable from the natives, their
conversation, both in choice of words and in pro—
nunciation, developing a local flavour. During the
first few days of evacuation some damage was
done to property and to crops by the town chil—
dren, but reasonable explanations as to what care
should be exercised and why, and more important
perhaps, the example of local children, have
changed the attitude of the visitors from destruc-
tiveness to protection. They have, in fact, become
good country folk themselves. And the gains have
not been solely to the town child. The children
already living in the country have benefited in many
ways from contact with their town neighbors.

It may not be easy to generalize on the influence
that the experience of the town children will have
on their future lives; or to say how many of those
who have expressed a desire to live and work
permanently in the country will in fact do_ so. It
is, however, safe to assume that they will appre—
ciate the countryside and its inhabitants in a way
which would never have been possible before.
Many who have fallen under its spell and found
something of its charm have acquired a new
respect for the country which they will observe
when they revisit itw-as many will. They will
have realized that skill and craftsmanship in some
of their best aspects are to be found there, with
the village smithy, the shepherd, the ploughman,
and, indeed, all who serve the soil. If also they
have learned to value such things as wholesome
food, sufficient sleep, regard for the property of
others, tolerance of others’ views, and the ability
to fill their free time from their own resources——
then they will have gone far to acquiring the
means of living a healthy and happy life.

 

Raleigh Entertains the Service Men

5 THE PRESIDENT of the
United States reached
into the historic gold—

fish bowl to draw out the hrst
draft number, many citizens
of the old and aristocratic
city of Raleigh, North Caro-
lina, sat beside their radios.
As they listened to the broad—
cast, little did these citizens
realize the effect it would
have on their city and the
responsibility that would
shortly be placed upon the community to help
provide for the leisure hours these men would
soon have on their hands.

Raleigh, like other cities of its size in the United
States, was caring for the recreational life of its
own citizens. Community centers and playgrounds
were being operated and a well-rounded program
of athletic activities conducted for both children
and adults. The citizens of Raleigh were well
pleased with their city. One of their leading. citi-
zens, Josephus Daniels, had been Secretary of the
Navy during the administration of Woodrow Wil-
son and was now retiring as Ambassador to
Mexico to come back home to his pe0ple. His son
was a well-known writer. All circumstances com—
bined to make Raleigh one of the leading cities of
the state. '

Citizens Take Action

One morning as Mayor Graham H. Andrews
swung around in his high back leather chair, he
was confronted by a group of serious-minded citi-
zens with a problem to present. Fort Bragg, the
largest field artillery post in the world, which ordi-
narily cared for 12,000 soldiers, had been enlarged
to accommodate approximately 65,000, while the
population of Raleigh, fifty-five miles from the
reservation and the nearest city of any size to the
fort, was only 46,000. Fall maneuvers were in
full swing with several hundred thousand troops
in the held, many coming to Raleigh for week
ends. To add to this, the British had established
a recreation camp for their sailors only four miles
from the city limits.

These facts, the citizen group pointed out to the

By OKA HESTER
Director of Parks and Recreation
Raleigh, North Carolina

When a city of 46,000 people
finds itself host to 65,000
service men, Mayor and citi-
zens may we” take counse| of interested citizens. The
together. And that is iust
what they did in Raleigh!

Mayor, made the situation
one of grave responsibility,
and the solution of the prob-
lem would point the way for
other communities the size of
Raleigh.

Action was taken immedi—
ately. A meeting was called

editor of one of the local
papers was appointed chair—
man of the Defense Recrea—
tion Council, and under his
leadership other committees were formed— some
for putting on dances,'some for conducting other
forms of recreation, and additional committees to
meet special needs.

The raising of money to carry on this program
was the next problem. Every civic club in the
city was asked to contribute to the Defense Rec-
reation Council. This they did and over $1,000
was raised, making it possible to initiate the pro-
gram of recreation for the service men.

The Program

An information booth was set Up in the lobby of
the state capitol to direct men to various activities
and facilities planned for them. The Y.M.C.A.
offered its services free to the soldiers. The
churches opened their Sunday school rooms for
social recreation and games. Dances were held at
the municipal auditorium. Club rooms were
opened for both white and Negro soldiers, and
private homes were asked to house soldiers free.
An average of over four hundred men were placed
in private homes each week end, with the Gover-
nor entertaining three or four in the Governor’s '
mansion. The dance committee was taking three
hundred girls each Friday night to Fort Bragg to
dance with the soldiers there. The British sailors
were playing cricket on the football field at North
Carolina State College and attracting many inter—
esting spectators.

The city became outstanding for its program of
recreation and hospitality for men in uniform. The
Army built a recreation camp inside the city to
which over live hundred soldiers were brought
each Thursday morning until Sunday afternoon.

729

730

The provision of recreation for these soldiers be—
came the responsibility of the Defense Recreation

Council.
As the funds donated

by the civic clubs had
been spent by this time,
it was decided to in-
clude the Defense Rec-
reation Council in the
local Community Chest
which was having its
annual drive. As a re—
sult of this, $4,000 was
allocated for the pro—
gram of recreation for
service men.

Soldier orchestras
were brought from Fort
Bragg and large dances
were held one or twice
a week. An increased.
number of soldiers were
housed, and the base-
ment of the city audi-
torium was opened for
free lodging, the cots
being furnished by the
National Park Service.

With these added op-
portunities, the program

of entertainment for the men in
uniform is being enlarged each
day. The Park and Recreation

Commission, the
Community Chest,
the Y.M.C.A., the
Y.W.C.A., the Sal-
vation Army, the
USO, and many
other groups are
working to make
the program an out-
standing success.
A n d n o w t h e
Mayor, sitting in
his high back chair,
smiles with satis—
faction as he thinks
of the fine spirit
of c00peration and
understanding be-
tween the various
groups which has

RALEIGH ENTERTAINS THE SERVICE MEN

 

Dancing and dance contests rank
high in popularity with the boys
whoI howeverI occasionally take
time out for a game of checkers

 

made possible a well-rounded program of recrea-
tion for men who have left their homes to don the

uniforms of Uncle Sam
and to serve their coun-
try in a time of national
emergency.

The November I, 1941
issue of the Recreation
Bulletin published by
the Recreation Section
of the Office of De-
fense Health and Wel—
fare Services, FSA, of-
fers some interesting in—
formation regarding the
steps which have been
taken to meet the needs
of men on maneuvers.
FSA recreation repre-
sentatives were assign-
ed to help the smaller
communities in their
planning. In the Caro—
linas alone, I 72 com—
munities were organ—
ized. One step taken
was the establishment

by USO of a mobile unit
which worked in close

cooperation with FSA. A fea-
ture greatly appreciated by the
men on maneuvers was the

Maneuver Movie
Unit. When this
unit rolled into
camp and gave a
full run movie with
a newsreel, colored
cartoon and a reg-
ular run comedy,
the hundreds of
men who sprawled
on the ground and
stood about the rear «
of the truck agreed

it was a "swell"
idea. USO also
maintained a book-
mobile or library on
wheels in the North
Carolina Area.

 

Planning for Present and Future Needs

The planning of recreation facilities and activities for the men
in uniform and for workers in defense industries goes on apace.
From small community and large city come accounts of what local
recreation groups are doing to make their guests‘feel at home.

"So You've Got Time
on Your Hands.”

“ MORE PEOPLE MOVING IN! Dayton’s recrea- I

tional facilities are ready.”
So says the Dayton, Ohio, Journal-
Herald Spotlight of January 4, 1942, in an illus-
trated article addressed to the host of defense
workers who have moved into Dayton during the
past year.

“The Recreation Board of the Dayton Council
for Defense wishes it made known to those who
are relative strangers to the city that Dayton is a
city of and for recreation. If your son is restless,
urge him to join the Boy Scouts or the Boys Club
or the Y.M.C.A. The same goes for your
daughter. She can join the Girl Scouts, the Camp
Fire Girls, or the Y.W.C.A. In any of these or-
ganizations they will gain
physical as well as mental
recreation for
the building of
sound bodies
and minds.

“If your child
is too young
for these or-
ganizations, let
him partake in
the Bomberger
Club children’s
activities. If you
adults are inter-
ested in arts or
crafts, inquire ,
into the activi-
ties at the Art
Institute.

“Town Meet-
i n g cl a s s e 5

(Continued on
page 751)

Girls of Indianapolis sign up for mem-
bership in the Service Men's Cadeh‘es

 

Painesville Plans for
the Future

AINESVILLE, OHIO, a city of 12,000 people,
Pwith a number of small businesses and a few

large industries in the surrounding territory,
has organized a Civilian Defense Committee with
a subcommittee on recreation headed by the City
Recreation Director, Stanley Prague. In building
his committee, Mr. Prague has set up a plan
which will provide not only for the present period
of emergency, but for post war needs.

Under the direction of the local theater mana-
ger, a Commercial Recreation Committee is being
organized under which all commercial recreation
facilities will unite for a joint program to meet
war time and post war needs of the city.

Since its inception the Recreation Department
has had local recreation
councils planning the pro-

grams for their

neighborhoods.

In the Civilian
. Defense Rec-

reation Com-
mittee organi-
zation, survey
committees
headed by the
vice-chairman
of the City Rec-
reation Council
will go out in
their neighbor-
hoods to gather
information and
make plans for
program needs
in their own
communities. A

(Continued on

page 7 51 )
731

Recreation .Kits for Air Raid Shelters

E OF THE UNITED STATES are hoping that we
W shall be spared the experience of spending
hours in air raid shelters. But we have dis—
covered that “it can happen here” and so in re—
sponse to many requests, the National Recreation
Association has prepared some suggestions for
recreation kits for air raid shelters as they are
related to the home, the school, the apartment
house, and the office building.

When the Siren Sounds

(Suggestions for the Home)

You have planned what to do in case the air
raid warning sounds and the blackout comes. Like
other parents you have decided where the family
will gather. You have given the children a share
in the responsibility—perhaps Johnny has charge
of the bucket of sand; Mary puts up the blackout
curtains; Tom is ready with the first aid kit. You
have given them a sense of security by making
them feel they have a part in the family plans.
You have held dress rehearsals, so to speak, so as
to avoid panic—just in case.

In other ways too you have fostered this sense
of security in your children. Small things—like
reading the comics to them, singing a song, play-
ing a game, telling them a story— help avert the
fear the present situation might otherwise arouse
in them. But if the siren sounds—after the family
has done its appointed tasks and gathered in the
“shelter”——What then? What will you do until the
“all clear” sounds? You can insure your family
against hours of strain and fear by preparing for
hours of normal, enjoyable activity. There is no
better way of sustaining the family morale and
peace of mind than by playing together. So—

Prepare Your Recreation
Kit Today

Give all the members of the
family a part in suggesting
and collecting the various
items for the kit. The size of
your family, the ages of its
members, their recreation in-
terests and the size of the
room you choose for the

732

the National

Our readers may wish to know that the
material presented here is available in
the form of three printed folders—"Meet
Your Neighbor." "Waiting for the All
Clear." and "When the Siren Sounds."
Copies of these folders may be secured
tree on request. Your are free to re-
print any of the material. the only re-
quirement being that credit be given
Recreation Association.

“shelter” will influence the selection. The expense
of the kit will be small. The rewards in relieving
tension and in providing enjoyable, absorbing play
will be great.

You will need a cabinet, wooden box, chest,
carton or other container for the kit, and of course
you will keep it at all times in the room designated
as the “shelter.”

What Goes Iinto the Kit

Your kit will be of your family’s own choosing.
It will serve the recreation interests of every sin—

gle member, but it probably will contain some of
these items:

I. Favorite Toys—-—To small children, such toys
represent the normal, secure world in the midst
of possible confusion. Include the doll, the
baby panda, the dumbo, or the little red train.

2. Pad and Pencils——Usefu1 for simple but inter-
esting drawing games, guggenheim, ghosts,
guessing games. The pencils may be stubs that
you have collected and sharpened.

3. Books—A familiar storybook for the small
children. Short stories, humor, anthologies or
collections of poems for other members of the
family. ‘

4. Game Book—With suggestions suitable for the
home.* (See fodtnote on following page.)

5. Games—Chinese checkers, dominoes, jacks,
checkers, pick—up-sticks, lotto —the selection
here is wide. Choose those that can be played
by the whole family. Concentrating on a game

is a good way to forget inconvenience or pos—
sible danger.

6. Chalk or Crayon—For use in marking off game
areas on the floor or wall, or for keeping score.

7. Anagramsl CrosswordI Jigsaw.'and Other Puzzles
-——-Like games, they keep the
minds and hands busy.

8. Card Games -—— Such as
Authors, Pit, Hearts,
Michigan —— the family’s
favorites.

9. Modeling Clay — Some
form of non—hardening
modeling material will in-
terest anyone in the family.

RECREATION KITS FOR AIR RAID SHELTERS 733

A sampling of the
games. toys. books
and various types
of equipment which
may be included in
recreation kits for
air raid shelters

l0. Magazines, Scis-
sors.Crayons. and
Paste———The mak-
ing of a scrap-
book and color—
ing pictures will
keep young chil—
dren busily oc-
cupied for hours.

II. HarmonicaI Uku-
lele or Kazoo—
(Non - playing
members of the
family may veto this suggestion.)

l2. Bean Bags' Quoiis. Rubber Balls. Nests of Boxes
or Tin Cans—For use in throwing, bouncing,
tossing and similar games.

l3. Radio—It furnishes not only essential defense
information but also entertainment. A port-
able battery set will be useful if electric cur—
rent is cut off, or if there is no outlet in the
room.

The recreation kit has all the essentials for play,
except the most important ones—the ones that
come from within yourself. Your attitude, your
courage, your enthusiasm will determine the atti-
tude of your family.

And just in case “it” DOESN’T happen, and you
don’t need to wait for “all clears,” the Recreation
Kit will make a welcome addition to your family
life. It will bring your family together in com—
radeship. It will mean pleasant family evenings
and hilarious rainy days.

A very wise man, Joseph Lee, who knew chil—
dren and believed in play, once said: “THE FAMILY
THAT PLAYS TOGETHER—STAYS TOGETHER.”

*A booklet, “Games for Quiet Hours and Small Spaces,”
designed especially for such use is available from the
Association at twenty cents a c0py.

 

Waiting for the All Clear

(School Plans for Air Raids)

School authorities, in cooperation with civilian
defense agencies, have adopted definite procedures
to be followed in case of air raid warnings during
school hours. Specific locations in schools have
been selected or designated as places of assembly.
Teachers have been instructed to conduct their
pupils to these locations and to remain there with
them until the “all clear” sounds. Dress rehearsals
in the form of drills and practice alarms have pre-
pared pupils and teachers alike for prompt action
if the siren sounds.

But after the children are assembled in the hall-
way, corridor, basement or classroom, what then?
\Nhat will they do while waiting for the “all clear”
signal? Will they have a terrifying experience
sitting huddled together waiting for the worst?
Or will resourceful teachers insure the children
against fear by filling the hours with normal, en—
joyable play activities? A play program can be
carried on even in the most crowded spaces.

Planning for Play
To sustain the morale and peace of mind of

734 RECREATION KITS FOR AIR RAID SHELTERS

school children in the “shelters,” school authorities
can take the following steps:

(I) Assemble in each shelter a simple kit of
play materials suitable for use by the group as—
signed to it; and provide a suitable cabinet, wooden
box, or other container in which to keep the kit.

(2) Assign to each shelter one or more teach-
ers who are familiar with recreation activities suit-
able for large groups of children and who are ex—
perienced in conducting them.

(_ 3) If there are no teachers who are trained
and experienced in recreation leadership, arrange
for a brief training institute, seeking the coopera-
tion of the local recreation authorities and defense

agencies.

What Goes Into the Kit

The size of the space used for the shelter, the
number of children to be cared for and their ages
will influence the selection of items for the recrea—
tion kit. Teachers and pupils should have an op-
portunity to suggest what goes in it_ and should
be encouraged to bring suitable play materials for
it. The expense of the kit will be small; its con—
tribution in providing absorbing, enjoyable play
will be great. No two kits need be identical—they
should be of the school’s own choosing-wbut they
will probably contain some of these items:

I. Books—One or more storybooks or anthologies
suitable for the age group.

2. Bean Bags, Rubber Balls. Quoits—Simple equip—
ment that can be used in throwing or tossing

games and in passing relays.

3. Game Book-VVith suggestions for activities
suitable for use in the school.

4. Alphabet Cards—For games involving group
competition.

. ‘c I I I
5. Whistle—Useiul 111 games requiring groups to
change or to secure attentlon.

6. Collection of Familiar Songs—-Singing is an ex-
cellent activity for the shelter. In limited space,
action songs can be used to stretch muscles. A
supply of SONG LEAFLETS may be advisable.

7. Pads and Pencils—Useful for simple but inter-
esting drawing games, guggenheim, ghosts,
guessing games. The pencils may be stubs the
children have collected and sharpened.

8. Chalk and Crayon-——For use in marking off
game areas on the Hoor or blackboard or for

keeping score.

9. Marionettes and Puppets—These afford great
enjoyment to audience and operators. Only the
simple types are suitable here. Impromptu shows
may be worked out in the shelter, often in re-
lation to stories or songs used in the program.

I 11 shelters serving yong children the following
may be included:

Magazines, PasteI Scissors—The making of
scrapbooks is an absorbing activity.

Modeling Clay—Non—hardening modeling ma-
terial makes possible interesting, creative
projects.

Rhythm Band Instruments—Especially desirable
for primary children.

If space permits and numbers are limited, such

. games as hop scotch, jackstones, authors, or lotto

that can be played on the floor may be added to
the list.

A radio, preferably a battery set, will provide
entertainment as well as information. If such
equipment as a moving picture machine, stereop—
ticon or phonograph and records is available in
the room used for a shelter, it will help solve the
waiting problem.

Play Activities in the Shelter

Activities must be primarily for the group as a
whole because in many school shelters the number
of children will be large and the quarters restricted.
Guessing, memory, and obedience games are espe—
cially suitable for such conditions. Action songs
and stunts, from the simple ones for kindergarten
children to those popular with high school students,
also merit a place in the shelter program. They
provide an opportunity to move the arms and legs,
furnish amusement, and demand concentration and
coordination on the part of the children.

Some features may be introduced in which a
few children perform for the entire group. In
English school centers classes have planned and
rehearsed home talent entertainments to be given
for the whole school, classes vying with one an-
other in producing the greatest variety of num—
bers. For many activities the children can best be
divided into groups which either compete with or
perform for the others simultaneously or in turn.
Activities of this type such as relays, acting out
stories, alphabet games, charades and spelling bees
require little or no equipment.

Equipment games for small groups, such as
Chinese checkers, parchesi, and monopoly, and
games using many small pieces or c0tmters such

 

RECREATION KITS FOR AIR RAID SHELTERS 735

as jigsaw puzzles are.not practical in school shel-
ters serving large numbers of children.

Competent leadership is clearly needed to carry
on the play activities in a manner that will arouse
the children’s interest and sustain their undivided
attention. School authorities have a responsibility
for assigning such leadership to every shelter.
Many teachers are well trained and qualified to
perform this task but if competent leaders are not
available, it is essential that teachers be given
special training to prepare them to conduct the
shelter play program.

In case the siren does NOT sound, the knowledge
of recreation activities and methods gained by the

teachers in such training courses will be found.

exceedingly useful day by day in the classroom
‘ and on the playground. If it does sound, the teach-
ers can develop in the shelters a spirit and attitude
on the part of the pupils such as prompted the
little English girl to remark, when she heard the
“all clear,” “Please, teacher, may we go on with
the air raid?”

Meet Your Neighbor

(For Apartment Houses and Offices)

American communities, especially along the
Pacific and Atlantic seaboards, have prepared for
action in case of air raids. Defense agencies have
instructed people in what to do in case of air raid
warnings and blackouts. Essential equipment has
been secured and volunteers have been enlisted to
enforce regulations and prevent panic. In office
buildings, apartment houses, factories, churches
and public buildings, specific locations such as
apartments, floors, corridors, or other rooms have
been selected or designated as places of assembly.
People know where to go but——

What Will They Do When They Get There?

Many apartment dwellers—in suburban com-
munities as well as in cities——do not even know
the names of their next door
neighbors. In office buildings

grownups. People in church, in a “movie” or a
community center, or on the street when the siren
sounds will seek the shelter that has been pro-
vided. And then, what will they do until the “all
clear” sounds? Will they sit staring glumly at
each other or will a real spirit of neighborliness
and cheer be developed in the center?

Play Provides the Answer

There is no better way of sustaining group
morale and peace of mind than by playing together.
Managers of apartment and office buildings and
similar structures can insure their tenants against
hours of strain and fear by planning for normal,
enjoyable recreation activities. To accomplish this
two steps are suggested:

(1) Prepare a kit of recreation materials and
equipment for use in the shelter.

(2) Select an individual or committee who will
accept responsibility for planning and conducting
a recreation 'program in the shelter.

The Recreation Kit

Many recreation activities suitable for use in a
shelter cannot be carried on without simple equip—
ment. Hence the need for a recreation kit. This
may be furnished by the management of the build-
ing, by the tenant group, or jointly by both. In
any case, the expense of the kit will be small
whereas the satisfaction resulting from its use will
be great. The size of the shelter, and the number,
ages and interests of the people likely to use it
will determine the games and other materials to
be included in the kit.

The kit will need to be kept in a cabinet, wooden
box, chest or other container. Of course it~will be
kept at all times in the room or other place desig-
nated as the “shelter” and the various items in it
are not to be taken away.

The Contents of the Kit

Each kit will be different but some of the follow-
ing items will surely be in-
cluded:

people ride up and down ele-
vators with folks who work
on the next floor, but never
learn their names. Yet in case
of air raids they may be
thrown together for long per-
iods of time. In some shelters
there will be children, youth
and adults; in others, only

The National Recreation Association has
compiled a set of its publications felt to
be especially useful in planning recrea-
tion activities for air raid shelters.
It includes directions for mental games
and games for small spaces: songs. stunt
songs and rounds: charades; and sugges-
tions for storytelling and many other
activities. This kit may be secured for

$|.00. A list of the booklets and bul-

letins included will be sent on request.

I. RadioI battery set if pos-
sible, will furnish infor-
mation as well as enter-
tainment.

2. Games. Several sets of
games that can be played
by large numbers, such
as Bingo and quiz games,
also games smaller groups

736 RECREATION KITS FOR AIR RAID SHELTERS

can play at a table or on the floor, such as
Chinese checkers, anagrams, parchesi and
dominoes; also card games such as Authors,

Pit or Rook.

3. Playing Cards. Bridge or pinochle enthusiasts
can be happy for'hours with a deck of cards.
There are many other old favorites—Michi-
gan, Hearts, I Doubt It. In case you have
forgotten them, add

4. The Official Rules for Card Games—Hoyle Up
to Date—for use in settling disputes!

5. Crosswordl Jigsaw and Other Puzzles attract
spectators as well as players, and help keep
the mind off possible danger.

6. A Collection of Familiar Songs. In case the
group is large or varied, SONG LEAFLETS will

help.

7. Game Book. One or more members of the
group should become familiar with games suit-
able for the shelter.

8. Bean Bags. Rubber Balls. Quoits—simple equip-
ment that can be used in throwing or bounc-
ing games and in relays.

9. Alphabet Cards—for games involving compe-
tition between groups.

IO. Whistle—useful for the leader in conducting
active games:

ll. Musical Instruments—if there is known talent
in the group. 'VV here space warrants, a piano
will be a great aid, not only in community
singing but for individual or small-group en-
tertainments.

l2. Pads and Pencils—useful for many interesting
drawing, guessing, and pencil and paper games
like guggenheim and ghosts; also for score-
keeping in other games.

l3. Library—books and magazines for those who
prefer to read.

l4. Table Tennis or Dart Games—not practicable
unless there is ample space. Only a few can
play at a time but many can enjoy watching.

People can take part in many of the activities
which the kit makes possible while they are stand-
ing or seated on the floor, but they will be more
comfortable if seats are provided. In several
apartment houses the tenants have furnished the
vacant apartment designated as a shelter, con-
tributing bridge tables and lamps, tables, radio or
victrola, as well as material for the recreation kit.

Activities in the Shelter

Leadership will determine largely the extent to
which people enter into activities in the shelter and
the spirit with which they participate. For this
reason the appointment of one Or more individuals
with natural leadership ability and with some
training and experience in conducting recreation
activities is important. These leaders will care for
the recreation kit, see that everyone has an oppor-
tunity to use it, initiate games and other activities
appealing to the various age groups, help people
become acquainted and make sure that no one is
overlooked.

The program of activities will vary according to
the space and equipment available and the ages
and interests of the people served. If children are
to be cared for, special activities will need to be
provided for them. On the other hand many activi-
ties such as action songs and stunts, guessing
games, charades, spelling bees, alphabet games, and
relays appeal to old and young alike. Furthermore
they can be played in a relatively small space.

In case groups are fairly small and space is ade—-
quate, table games and similar activities are likely
to be stressed. These include card games requir-v
ing playing cards and other well-known types,
equipment games like Chinese checkers, parchesi,.
monopoly, chess, jigsaw puzzles and anagrams-
They are widely popular, require varying degrees-
of concentration and can be organized on a contest:
or tournament basis.

Entertainments may be planned and presented
by individuals and small groups, using dramatic
stunts, pantomimes, sketches, and musical num--
bers. If small children are present, they may act:
out stories told or read them by the leaders. Folk.
dancing, square dancing, or social dancing may be
enjoyed in shelters where space permits.

In case the raid does NOT come, it is likely that
the fun of preparing the recreation kit, the prospect
of good times using it together, and the Oppor--
tunity to meet the neighbors that has resulted, will:
create a more friendly Spirit 'in the apartment
house, office building or community center. It may
be that get-togethers will be arranged, raid or no
raidl

Note: Leaders of Camp Fire Girls, early alert
to the need fer providing recreation during black—
out periods, have made up kits small enough to be
carried to meetings under their arms, yet contain-
ing material diversified enough to entertain a

( Continued on page 750)

Senior Service
Scouts

Girl Scouts, lnc., develops a pro-  _

gram designed to equip Senior 

girls to aid in the war effort 

By ANNE L. NEW
Girl Scout National Staff

FTER TWO AND A HALF YEARS of war England
A regretfully reports a rise in juvenile delin—
quency—in most cases definitely traceable to
war conditions. After only two months of war the
United States reports local increases in juvenile
delinquency—usually in key defense production
areas or in the neighborhood of large army camps.
Anyone who must help young people solve their
problems of constructive recreation knows that
these are not small matters. The boys and girls
whose wartime nervous excitement can find no
useful outlet will become a dispossessed genera-
tion that may once more lose the peace. And if,
as many of us fear, this is going to be a long war,
we must provide training and useful occupations
for our young people at once in order to have the
fresh supplies of workers and soldiers needed for
victory.

Even before America had entered the Second
World War, the Girl Scouts, drawing on their
thirty years’ experience and current reports from
Girl Guides of Europe and Britain, were prepar-
ing a program especially designed to meet the war—
time needs of 'teen—age girls. The program is
called Senior Service Scouting and it was launched
in October, 1941, almost two months before Pearl
Harbor.

The Y.W.C.A. has pointed out that the For—
gotten Man of 1942 is the high school boy who is

  
    

Paul Parkr Photo

They are serving as messengers for air
raid wardens. offices of civilian de-
tenseI and other groups concerned with
national morale and protective services

deserted by girls who prefer to go out with
soldiers. One of the chief aims of the Girl Scout
civilian defense program for older girls is to give
high school youngsters plenty of useful things to
do and learn at their own level, advancing to more
grown—up jobs only after they have had careful
preparation—and always with adult supervision. :
Another aim of Service Scouting is to provide im—
mediate constructive outlets for girls’ wholly ad-
mirable desire to help their country. Girls at once
have opportunities to serve in simple ways; as
they win the right to wear the Triple-S emblem
and cap, they acquire skills that enable them to
serve in other, more responsible ways. The fmal
aim of Senior Service Scouting is that everything
a Service Scout does shbuld be done, not as a
mere short—term service activity but as a natural
outgrowth of a girl’s attempt to live up to the code
of ethics eXpressed in the Girl Scout promise and
laws. Senior Service Scouting is not something
different from other Scouting. It is an adaptation
and grouping of certain Scout activities for war-
time needs. It is part of the world movement

737

738 SENIOR SERVICE SCOUTS

which for more than thirty years in all parts of
the world has called girls to do their duty to God
and country and to offer friendship and unselfish
service to others.

Senior Service Scouting, then, is an adaptation
for senior high school girls of the general defense
activities of all Scouting. Senior Girl Scouts must
have the written permission of their parents or
guardians before they can take up the specialized
work of the Triple-S. This permission should in—
clude permission to participate in emergency ser-
vice if the Scout is called on.

To make sure that adolescent strength won’t be
overtaxed, every Service Scout must have had a
recent health examination. She must have had a
standard Junior Red Cross First Aid course or its
equivalent sometime during the first year that she
is a Senior Service Scout, and in addition, must
prove her ability to do a number of useful things.
It is suggested that she demonstrate:

1. She has an intimate knowledge of the com-
munity in which she serves and can get
around it both in daylight and in the dark.

2. She knows how to build an outdoor fire, even
under difliculties, and to prepare food on it,
including Several kinds 'of one-pot meals and
some type of bread. She knows the simple
principles of cooking indoors or out of doors.

3. She is able to pack an overnight kit within
a limited time with common necessities.

4. She knows what to do in case of fire and the
. principles of lire prevention.

5. She is able to live out of doors—knows how

.to prepare a primitive shelter, make a bed

on the ground, construct sanitary arrange—
ments, and so forth.

6. She can use ordinary tools and implements
safely and with fair efficiency—needles and
scissors, ax, knife, shovel, hammer, saw,
pliers, screwdriver. (Others may be added.)

7. She is somewhat of a handywoman—able to
mend neatly and sew on buttons; to replen—
ish and repair flashlights; to clean, fill, and
use an oil lantern or lamp safely; to replace
a burned-out electric fuse safely, and so forth.

8. She is skilled in some special mode of trans-
portation—roller or ice skates, bicycle, horse-
back, skis, snowshoes, automobile, boat.

9. She is able to send and receive simple mes-
sages accurately in International Morse Code
by buzzer, whistle, flashlight, or similar means.

10. She knows something about the care and
feeding of animals, such as chickens, rabbits,
pigs, sheep, goats, and cows (including
milking).

II. She knows something about gardening—how
to prepare the earth for planting and how to

care for growing things and how to harvest
the crop.

12. She is able to swim and knows about rescue
and resuscitation as recommended by the
Red Cross in the Junior and Senior Life
Saving Courses and in the Water Safety In-
structor Course.

13. She knows how to care for a bicycle, includ—
ing the mending of a tire; and knows some—
thing about the routine care of an automo—
bile and how to make minor repairs even
though she may not be old enough to have
a driving license.

With this list as a starter, it’s plain that many
girls have a good deal to do before they can of-
ficially be called Service Scouts. But that seems to
be only a minor obstacle. The Triple-S insignia
which is based on the standard civilian defense
insignia, stands for certain definite training and
ability. Girls are impressed with the fact that it
is not to be lightly worn. They have responded to
the challenge by eagerly signing up for First Aid
courses, handywoman courses, pioneer camping
courses, and any other training that a local group
may need. In general, a girl who is already a
First Class Scout has already met all or most of
the requirements. Girls who have never been
Scouts before are coming flocking for this special
training.

Senior Service Scouts specialize in one of four
fields of service: food; child care; transportation
and communication; clothing, shelter, and rec-
reation.

A good many girls are starting their work on
food by taking nutrition courses; others have
turned camp station wagons into emergency can—
teens; others are planning a season of gardening,
harvesting, and canning—a routine already fol-
lowed by many troops last year. Before the Senior
Service program was officially launched, an ex-
perimental course in nutrition was conducted in
New York City under the sponsorship of the New
York Department of Public Health and the Girl
Scout Council of Greater New York. Enrollment
in the course was limited, but in spite of attempts
to keep the number small the demand was so great

‘ ditioning old clothes

SENIOR SERVICE SCOUTS

that the original figure of sixty-five had to be
raised to eighty-five. Almost all who began the
course completed it and were presented with cer—
tificates by Dr. John L. Rice, New York City
Health Commissioner. Dr. Rice announced that
because the course had been so successful, material
used in it would be the basis for the city-wide de—
fense nutrition training. Seniors who had taken
the course were charged with the responsibility of
passing on what they had learned to the other
girls in their troops.

Many Seniors are specializing in the ‘iield of
child care. One of their most useful jobs is taking
care of children for mothers who need free time to

volunteer for defense work. Sometimes they do

this by setting up day nurseries (with adult super-
‘vision) to which mothers can bring their children.
Sometimes they give their services free for “baby-
sitting” or other child care at home while mothers
work at the Red Cross or the office of civilian
defense. Girls who do
this sort of work usu-
ally are required to
complete a course in
nursery care of infants
or toddlers.

In transportation and
communication, Sen-
iors appear as mes-
sengers for air raid
wardens, offices of ci-
vilian defense, hospi-
tals, and welfare agen-
cies. Some of them, in
addition have rigged
up trailers for their
bicycles — the trailers
are usually children’s
express wagons—and
with these trailers they
assist in collecting
scrap and waste paper.
Saves rubber, too.

Clothing, shelter, and
recreation offers a wide
range all the way from
collecting and recon-

for,the Red Cross to
making children’s
games out of un-
promising or make-
shift materials.

739

Seniors have made surveys of emergency bed
space for hospitals and have taken training that
prepares them to act as nurses’ assistants.

Girl Scout local councils all over the country
report that Senior Service Scouting is the answer
to their girls’ demand: “Let us help too !” Troops
are being organized as fast as possible but much
remains to be done. There still aren’t enough
leaders to meet the need.

The Girl Scout organization, nationally and
locally, has recognized the importance of expand—
ing its work as rapidly as possible to help avoid
the kind of situation that England is already fac-
ing—a large group of young people who might be

(Continued on page 753)

Many Senior Scouts. after faking courses in
baby care. are helping in day nurseries or
well baby clinics shor’r of professional help

 

Cellar Game Rooms as Air Raid Shelters

game room in your cellar,

now is the time to ar—
range one. A room of this
kind will not go to waste if
the bombs never fall!

After you have selected the
portion of your cellar you
will use and you have secured
the necessities for your phy-
sical comfort, your next step
is to provide the facilities for
your family’s entertainment.
The first thing to do is to
take a radio to your game
room shelter, if you have two
in the house. You may re-
ceive instructions from your civilian defense of—
ficers or you may get music and entertainment
from a station not in a bombing area. Provide
reading matter as books or magazines, and be sure
to keep some children’s books handy if you have
children in your family.

IF YOU HAVE never had a

Try These Games

Now you are ready to set up your games. You
are limited by the size of your cellar. If it is fairly
large you can set up a table for table tennis. This
is a game mother, father and the children can
play. Your table is stationary and once placed in
the cellar will stay there. But your paddles and
balls should be checked so that they are in the
cellar and not in the living room after the air raid
warning is sounded!

Indoor quoits are always popular, and rubber.

quoits can still be purchased. When they are no
longer available, make your quoits of half inch
rope. Hobs made of wood on a wooden base is all
you need to play many games of quoits. The stan-
dard distance between hobs is I 5 feet for high hobs
and 18 feet for low hobs. In high hobs only ringers
count, while in low hobs points are given for near—
ness to the hob. While I 5 and 18 feet are standard
distances, the game can be played with any dis—
tance between hobs. The distance you use is de—
termined by the space available.

Chess, checkers, Chinese checkers, pick-up-
sticks, monopoly or carroms are all good games

740

By IRENE WELTY

Superinfenden’r of Recrea’rion
Allenfown. Pennsylvania

In +his arficle Miss Wel’ry offers some
sugges’rions for +he use of a cellar game
room as an air raid shelfer providedI of
course. ’rha’r ’rhe cellar is cons’rruc’red in
such a way as fo make if suifable for
fhis purpose. "If is bef’rer fo be busy
+han ’ro SH and waif." she says. "An hour
is a long fime when you are wa’rching +he
hands of a clock go round. So look
over your'cellar, decide whaf space you
can spare' and s’rar’r planning your games
and recreafion. You may find +his will
become one ofyour mos’r popular rooms."

because they require concen—
tration. Select the ones your
family likes and be sure all
the necessary material for the
games is in the cellar.

A card table and two
decks of cards can be used in
many ways. Bridge, of course,
makes hours seem like min—
utes for many adults! But for
bridge you must have four
players. This may not be dif—
ficult because several families
may seek refuge in your game
room. The simple game of
snap can be played by the
children and any number can
play. Since you cannot go to telephone and call up
a friend to fill in, it will be well to have games
such as these in mind. One of the books you
should keep in your cellar is, “Official Rules of
Card Playing According to Hoyle.” You might
find directions for new games which you would
enjoy very much. The book can be purchased in
the 5 and 10 cent store.

If you have little girls in your family, paint a
hopscotch court on the floor. Be sure to have a
rubber heel, and they will be all set for play.

Jacks and a ball will provide play for the girls;
marbles for the boys. You will find that in a little
while the girls will be playing marbles and the
boys, perhaps, jacks—since their pals will not be
seeing them!

There are many dart games on the market. The
most popular is dart baseball. Many games can
be played with darts, and it is not necessary to
purchase them because they are very easy to make. '
Secure a piece of beaver board the size you desire
and with heavy crayon mark the designs you wish.
It may be a baseball diamond, a football field or
any other layout.

With two canes or sticks and six small em-
broidery hoops, you may have a game of Ring
Toss. Two players hold the canes and the other
two toss the rings for them from a line about
twelve feet distant. They try to catch the hoops on
the cane. After twelve hoops have been thrown,

(Continued on page 755)

Nature Recreation for Defense

granted that nature

recreation for de—
fense is a necessity.
The unequal distribu-
tion of natural re-
sources is said to be
the cause of World War II, and nature’s raw
materials will decide the outcome of this war. It
is these same necessities which will have to be
considered when fighting stops. Equally important
is the human spirit and unity of purpose.

In democratic nations human freedom-“freedom
to be oneself in off-duty time, and freedom to serve
in free time—is vital at all times and especially
when it contributes to morale. There are certain
ways in which nature recreation activities are a
part of the network of national duty. A few of
them will be mentioned here.

It would seem that the crux of nature recreation
for the enlisted men should be
programmed for fun in park
areas near the center of Army
and Navy concen—
tration. Millions
have been spent to
make these public
areas suitable for
recreation and for
conservation. These
areas may again be-
come the scene of
public work pro-
grams in the de-
pression that may
follow the war.
Worth—while trips
may open the eyes
of interested men to
new professional
fields. In any case,
such a program will
serve many men
with the inborn
urge of nature hun-
ger as well as the
immediate need for
recreation. The
trained leader must

I '1‘ HAS been taken for

By WILLIAM G. VINAL, Ph. D.

Extracts from Section 3 of a report of
the Committee on Nature Recreation,So—
ciety of Recreation Workers of America

It may well be that this 4-H Club

member from Tennessee will later
become a nature recreation leader

 

be willing to take the
men out for sheer fun
and must know when
he can mix in a little
education. It would be
better for him to make
the mistake of having
too much fun than that of simulating the pedagog.
When the men ask for the technical details he
should be able to give them. Until then he is out
to give the men a whale of a good time and in a
rugged fashion. Some activities that appear to be
particularly suited to such a program are given.
The imaginative leader will be able to think of
many more:

Some of the Activities

Hobby groups. so that stimulating programs can
be furnished in leisure time—in weather, astron—
omy, insects, outdoor cooking, map trailing, for-
aging for food, in fact, anything
that a group is interested in. If
two service men have a healthy
hobby encourage
them to get together
and ride it.

Landscaping of
the post might be
for recreation and
job training. The
fellow in the office
might like to trans-
plant a tree in time
off, and the fellow
with the pick and
shovel might wel-
come the chance to
work with blue
prints and roadside
beautification under
proper guidance in
the evening.

Nature photogra-
phy clubs to take
pictures of scenic
areas, birds, large
mammals, geologi-
cal formations.

741

742

Conditioning hikes which

would not be merely a
foot race up the moun—
tain, but a trip to places
of natural interest, such as
Mammoth Cave, the In—
diana Dunes, the Grand
Canyon, the glacier, to be
explained by someone who
knows the scientific inter—
pretation. There are just
conditioning hikes and
there are conditioning

NATURE RECREATION FOR DEFENSE

The Nature Activities section of the Rec-
reation Congress at Baltimore endorsed the
defense recreation program. especially the
portion having to do with education-recre-
ation activities. and recommended the en-
listment of volunteers to lead trips which
would stress the enjoyment of scenic. scien-
tific and historic values in the vicinity of
concentrations of service personnel and de-
fense workers. The Society of Recreation
Workers of America. in full agreement with
these recommendations. appointed a commit-
tee on nature recreation. Dr. Vinal was
made chairman of this committee. Other mem-
bers of the committee are Reynold Carlson.
John Doerr. E. Laurence Palmer. V. K. Brown.

Arthur has taken to the
woods. The more we are
prepared the better we can
do the same thing.

Winter sports and moun—
tain climbing can be for
warfare training or for fun.
The man who can ski, the
man who can ski and sub—
sist, the man who can ski
and subsist and know
mountain craft will not
only have a lot of fun, but

hikes with a purpose.

Poisonous plants. snakes,
and insects of the area. Collect, chart, and present
the picture. Maybe an exhibition case to show how
such pests are lighting for the Axis. The adjoin—
ing case might take care of superstitions and
“propaganda about nature.”

A travel booklet on outstanding scenic and his—
toric features within fifty miles of the post. The
_making of the pamphlet would be a better experi—
ence than using it. Auto—caravan trips with a
mileage chart are worth while.

Camouflage in nature, defense in nature, hypoe
dermic needles in nature, the laws of struggle for
existence, survival of the fittest, and other great
principles can be made interesting. '

Visits to bird sanctuaries, natural history mu—
seums, fish hatcheries, and state forests should
be educational as well as recreational. Take the
men back of the scenes and let them know why a
vista was made here, in what way the stream was
improved, what is meant by native landscape, what
is meant when it is said that flowers need protec—
tion, and the million of other queries that will
arise when the men are once exposed to the sit-
uation. If the trip results in a desire to make the
post a bird sanctuary, that will be a real accom-
plishment.

Want-to-know-it Clubs. The enlisted man may
(and should) know soils, trees, seasons, insects,
stars, streams, in fact all the things that are sug-
gested in the Boy Scout Handbook. There is an
amazing variety of outdoor experiences. He should
surely know something of outdoor economics, sub—
marginal land, conservation, and transportation.
He must be given new interests and responsibili-
ties. He must be as self—sufficient out of doors as
possible. Primitive industries, even to weaving
and making soap, are in order. General Mac—

he is reinforced as a sol—
dier as well as in morale.

Understand Your Terrain.
seems a “God-forsaken place” to get out of as soon
as possible, it may be a lack of understanding on
the part of men who have known nothing except
the congested neighborhoods of large cities. The
nature leader may not be able to do much with
certain mentalities, but the presence of ten or fifty
trained nature explorers in a concentration of
30,000 men coming from all walks and interests of
life might be a leaven. It takes all kinds to make
up a city. Camps, like cities, can have standards of
tastes. This goes back to the organizations and
cultures within that city or camp.

Values of Nature Recreation

Nature recreation is the life line to “America,
the Beautiful” which we defend. There is no point
in singing “I love thy rocks and rills” if you don’t
know a rill when you see it. “Alabaster halls”
may not mean a thing. “Fields of waving grain”
may not stir a ripple in our hearts. We are no
stronger than our attitudes, appreciation, and

morale.

We have made a tremendous investment in
parks. They should be used, not so much for
midways, -roller coasters and hot dog dispen—
saries, as for places for leisure-time leadership
on a broad basis—for the understanding of our
fellow man, for appreciation of beauty, and for the
cultural offerings made possible by a democratic
civilization. We have the leaders, we have the
areas, we have the people with a hunger for nature.

Let us unite to build the program that our people
deserve. In this time of disaster, let us make a

constant effort to present that which is good,
peaceful, and beautiful.
(Continued on page 752)

If the camp area.

Q

Vegetables tor Victory

VERY MAN, woman and
E child in America wants
to help win this war—
yes, and win it quickly. Every
youngster in our rural dis-
tricts is now ready to do his
“bit.” Wide fields cry out for
his hoe and rake. For food will
fight—sandbags will not.
But the city child—especially
the “teen age”~—what can he

In 1918, the United States

School Garden Army, over one million strong, was
formed. More than one hundred schools in New
York City, registering about 75,000 pupils, culti—
vated gardens at their schools. Each week, as the
vegetables were harvested, they were recorded at
market prices and taken home by the pupil garden-
ers “f.o.b.” mother’s kitchen. At the season’s end,
the gross estimate of the produce value from all
our school gardens was above $17,000. In addition,
32,000 home gardens were registered through the
schools, but their produce was not computed.

As an interesting exhibit, note the story of one
of these school gardens at P. S. No. 27, Queens.
George W. Dorland was

the“ PrinCiPal, Martha E- I In World War I. nineteen different kinds
of vegetables were raised in the War Gar-

den at Public School 27. New York City

Knote, garden teacher. In

By VAN EVRIE KILPATRICK
Executive Vice-President
School Garden Association of NewYork

Can city youngsters grow vegetables?
In answering this question. Mr. Kil-
patrick reviews some of the achieve-
ments of the School Garden Army
who performed such valiant service
during World War I. At that time he
was appointed by the Board of Educa-
tion of New York City to command
do? the city's division ot this great army.

a plot in the school yard, 50’ x
100’ in area, $402.28 worth of
vegetables was grown com-
puted at market prices. The
most productive crops, out of
nineteen kinds of vegetables
raised, were carrots, beets,
chard, lettuce, beans and toma-
toes. Even peanuts, endive and
kale were cultivated.

In addition to the gardens
at schools, six hundred boys

from twenty selected schools
cultivated a ten acre farm in the Bronx and an-

other ten acre farm in Brooklyn. These boy gar-
deners paid their transportation in return for all
the produce which they took home. At least
100,000 New York City children took part in
these war gardens.

How Did We Do It?

The Board of Education appropriated funds to
employ a garden director for the season, garden
teachers to care for all school gardens during the
summer vacation, and funds to purchase supplies.
Each garden enlisted a garden club of at least
twenty-five pupils, supplied
with seeds, tools, fertilizers,
and some labor for heavy

 

743

744 VEGETABLES FOR VICTORY

work. The garden teachers took charge of gardens
and garden clubs during July and August only.
According to its area, each garden was pro—
grammed from two to ten hours each week, and
was in charge of a teacher who reported in writ-
ing weekly to the Director. The Director per-
sonally supervised all gardens.

What We Learned

Food gardens must have good soil; vacant lots
are frequently not tillable; gardens must have sun-
light most of the day; shady gardens under trees
or behind buildings are useless; a rotted barn—
yard fertilizer is essential, but commercial fertiliz-
ers can be used effectively during the season ; used
gardens give best results; cultivation reduces wa—
ter requirements though a water outlet in a garden
is always desirable; reliable seeds only should be
planted; few tools are needed for beginners, in
New York—hoe, rake, trowel, line, weeder, and
can. We found out, too, that crops suitable to the
neighborhood should be planted—in New York——
radishes, beans, carrots, beets, lettuce, chard, cal)-
bage, tomatoes for children; that certain vege-
tables—peas, radishes, spinach and lettuce (these
crops should be planted in April) will not thrive
’ in the heat of July and August; that culture of
certain common vegetables is too difficult for chil-
dren, among them cauliflower, kale, celery, aspara-
gus; and that when needed, insecticides should
be applied early by adults. We also learned that
flower borders should be maintained (in New
York, plant about May Ist) ; that cultivation
should go on during entire season; that most gar-
dens should be fenced; that some vegetables grow
best from transplants—tomatoes, cabbage, head
lettuce; that all vegetables can be saved by can-
ning, drying or distributing to Red Cross and hos—
pitals; that it doesn’t pay to plant lawns, city
parks, golf links, or roadsides; and, above all, that
vegetables should be harvested as they mature.

We Made 'These Gains

Vegetables are much tastier and more nourish-
ing when eaten fresh soon after harvesting. The
use of vegetables where they are raised does away
with the labor and expense of transportation.

The “man-power” required to produce the food
of our country, and indeed the food of a large part
of the world, will be greatly assisted if we accept
the willing work of the “teen-age” army even in
cities.

School cooperation in bringing together the
needs of the domestic science department, the

luncheon service and the school garden is of
special advantage.

Conservation of all vegetables, not immediately
usable, by canning, drying, or other means of pre-
serving is a highly commendable gain.

There Are Other Social Gains

"Morale." The urge to do something worth
while must be met. Like adults, children are
aroused to “do.” Gardening offers that something
to do. Food will win. This conviction awakens
and sustains morale. It is realistic. War hysteria,
so prevalent, must soon disappear under blows that
give assurance to every worker.

Education. The aftermath of this war must be
the free man. The education of the child far trans-
cends the food he can grow. For the basic educa-
tion follows the conquest of the soil. This con-
quest was the occupation that civilized the human
race. The final result of this inspired fight by chil-
dren to grow vegetables for victory will be more
truly educated men and women.

Health. If the human body depends upon whole-
some exercise for best health, then no exercise
could be more complete than gardening. In the
open air with every muscle in play, gardening is
ideal. But the striking gain of vegetables in vari-
ety as food is that they furnish an essential diet
of various health-giving qualities. More vege—
tables for health and victory!

Subsistence Farms. One of the most striking
rural changes of the last few years has been the
rapid industrialization of farms. Originally the
American farm produced a great variety of foods.
The farm family lived first out of the crops then
it sold the excess. Now the farmer raises produce
for sale and buys his food at the village store.
This practice tends to deprive the farmer of his
former economic independence. In the South, for
example, if a farmer cannot sell his cotton, his
family suffers great deprivation. If he had grown
diversified crops, he would have at least enough
to eat. ,

The great gain of teaching millions of children
in this country how to grow their food through
their own labor cannot be over-estimated. They
will come into manhood prepared to carry their
own weight.

Not farming for profit, but farming for food!
These children who cultivate victory gardens must
grow up to appreciate the worth of their own labor.

The vision of a better world is ever before those
who encourage victory. gardens for children.

I Love the City

the article entitled H 01)—

bies and Happiness in
Old Age by Professor Landis,
in the January issue of REC—
REATION. I must, very re-
spectfully, take exception to
the findings of his class in
sociology.

I READ WITH great interest

I am a transplanted farmer.
I was born and reared on a'
farm in Ohio and I had farms of my own for lifty
years. I loved the land and all the activities con—
nected with its cultivation. I loved the life of our

widespread community; for many miles in every

 

direction there were no strangers only neighbors

and friends.

Then, when I was seventy, we moved to New
York City. There were a few people who shook
their heads and said the usual things about up-
rooting people in later life, and how hard it would
be for us to find new activities and interests, and
harder still to be suddenly inactive after a full and
busy life.

My wife and I, however, had none of these feel-
ings. I don’t believe many farmers have. If farm-
ers were as low-spirited as that, it would go hard
with the rest of the population, for they would
probably starve to death. Two things—among
many others—a farmer has to have: resourceful—
ness and adaptability, and they are good currency
anywhere. They don’t dr0p away, either, just
because one has passed what is considered the
meridian of life.

The change from country life to life in New
York did not present itself to us as a problem,
but as an opportunity. Here, within easy reach,
were many things we had long wished to see and
to do. Farmers are, many of them, concerned not
only with corn and wheat and livestock, you know.
You’ve never really heard politics and religion
threshed out unless you’ve been around farming
regions. Living close to the earth does not dull
the faculties. A dull farmer would be just as dull,
perhaps more so, were he a lawyer or a carpenter.

Almost the first thing we noted in New York
was the extreme friendliness and neighborliness of
the city people. After one or two visits to a

Here is the tribute of a "transplanted"
farmer. eighty-one years of age, to the
friendliness of a great city. His hob-
bies, of which he has a number. were
developed late in life. He was eighty
when he began taking singing lessons;
handcratt, in which he became interest-
ed while attending a class at one of
New York's churches, consumes much
of his time. He lives a rich' full lite,
and is growing younger every year!

grocery store, the manager
was an old friend. He, I
learned, was a farm boy from

Ireland. The green grocer
where I found fine vegetables
and fruits saw that I looked
at them with a professional
eye, I suppose. He, too, it
turned out, was a farm boy,
from southern Italy. We soon
understood each other per—
fectly and became firm friends. So it was with the
clerks at the Post Oflice sub-station in my dis—
trict, and the letter carrier on our route.

The superintendent of my apartment house
noticed that I spent a great deal of time whittling
and carving and working at other handcrafts. His
hobby is mechanics, and he has a little machine“
shop in the “basement. He offered me some space
and I have a pleasant, adequate workshOp and
manage to turn out and to sell a number of articles.

We visited several churches in our neighbor—
hood and were received with cordiality at all of
them. Our membership in one of them has been a
happy and interesting experience. We have a large
congregation drawn from many walks of life and
from many parts of the country. We even have a
considerable number of native New Yorkers, and
that, I am told, is remarkable, for it is a standard
joke that one never meets native Manhattaners.

We have not found ourselves neglected nor
passed over because of our age and the fact that
we are country folk. Everybody has shown great
interest in us. I am constantly being called upon
to tell gatherings at our church stories of farm
life as it was in the eighties and nineties. My wife
is kept busy giving out recipes and demonstrating
arts and skills she inherited and was taught by
her country forebears.

I am inclined to think that no academic investi-
gation could ever get to the heart of a question
such as this. I doubt very much whether the
method of interviewing would extract reliable in-
formation. Most people unwittingly become a lit-
tle unnatural when being interviewed, particularly
if they are not used to it. And bright young col-
lege folk would probably have their minds already

(Continued on page 753)
745

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

U D U B ON Wildlife Tours

in the Sacramento Val-
ley have been announced by C.
A. Harwell, California repre-
sentative of the National Au—
dubon Society. For informa-
tion address Mr. Harwell,
Room 614, I I4 Sansome Street,
San Francisco.

Bird—Banding. “Bill and the
Bird—Bander,” Edna H. Evans. John C. Winston
Company, Philadelphia, I940. 220 pp. $1.50. A
story of the Florida islands for junior high school
students.

Bird Food. A large dish of sunflower seed with
a booklet on bird feeding attached and, apropos of
the times, a large “Keep ’Em Flying” sign.—
From Pittsburgh Park N atnre News.

Camping. Cornell University, under Dr. E.
Laurence Palmer, is sponsoring a course on living
out of doors in an effort to train leaders to help
lessen the discomforts of possible evacuees from
bombed cities who may have to live off the land.

Clean-up Campaign. Boy Scout leaders, East
Boston, Massachusetts, made “spot maps” of
places that needed cleaning. Newspapers, land-
lords, storekeepers, and tenants cooperated. The
city’s Sanitation Department trucks and nearly a
hundred Scouts also helped.

Defense. Streamline your defense program. Na-
tional Wildlife Restoration Week is April 12-18,

1942.

Handcraft. “Hands That Built New Hamp—
shire.” The Story of Granite State Craftsmen—
Past and Present. (American Guide Series.)
Stephen Daye Press, Brattleboro, Vermont. 11—
lustrated, 288 pp. $3.00. Wilderness crafts which
have been revived and are now taught by the
League of New Hampshire Arts and Crafts. Frank
Staples, genial recreation leader in handcraft and
nationally known to craftsmen, was a champion of
the cause.

Hobbies. “Science Experiments with Ten-Cent
Store Equipment,” John Lynde Carleton. Inter-
national. XIV, 1941. 256 pp. $1.60. Two hun-
dred clever stunts with scientific explanations.

746

"Nature recreation for childrenI pa-
tients and evacuees is an important
factor in national defense." says Dr.
Vinal. "Nature cultureI like the sat-
isfaction which comes from playing a
violinI can be achieved only by train-
ing and practice." For information on
the subject of nature recreation and

defense we refer you to an article by
Dr. Vinal on page 74l. Don't miss this.

logues are out. Help the chil-
dren to teach parents not to
waste seed and fertilizer and
jeopardize soil.

George Washington Birth-
place. National monument,
W akelield, Virginia, called the
“Athens iof America.” A giant
hackberry, a fig bush, a 125 year old boxwood, the
atmosphere of a Virginia planter’s life, and a
colonial garden enclosed by a hand split picket
fence. Here are sage, hyssop, horehound, rose-
mary, sweet myrrh, sweet lavender, and others.
Admission to the area is ten cents. Send to U. S.
Park Service for 1941 booklet.

Log Cabin Construction (Extension Bulletin
222), by A. B. Bowman. Extension Division,
Michigan State College, East Lansing. May 1941.

54 pp. 15 cents.

National Forests of California. A new map is
available. Address U. ‘S. Forest Service, 760
Market Street, San Francisco.

Natural Theater. Denver, Colorado, has dedi-
cated the Theater of the Red Rocks. Indian dances,
a symphony orchestra, and choral singing were
featured. At an elevation of 7,000 feet, rock for-

mations 300 feet high form the back of the stage
and flanks.

Pine C ones for the fireplace. Keep a supply
hung by the mantle in an onion bag. Paint with
shellac. Before it dries sprinkle as follows: yellow
flame—common salt; red flame—strontium chlor-
ide; green flame—barium chloride; orange flame—
calcium chloride; blue flame—copper sulphate;
purple flame—lithium chloride.

“Ponds for l/Vildlife,” Farmers Bulletin 1879,
U. S. Department of Agriculture, July 1941. 45
pp. I 5 cents. Since every recreation director has
a park (or two) and every park has a pond (or
two), every recreationist should know something
about management of wildlife in park ponds. This
IS 1t.

(Continued on page 7.53)

Gardens. Make plans now
for your club gardens. Cata—

WORLD AT PLAY

THE Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, Recreation
Association has de-
veloped an art craft
room at the rear of the community building. This
little shop, equipped with a wood-turning lathe,
complete set of wood-turning tools, a sanding
machine, and a jigsaw is used daily by from sixty
to seventy-live boys and girls. In the evening the
shop is used by adult groups from the neighbor-
hood and occasionally by church groups. The girls
have a cooking class there and there is a room for
dramatics. In addition to serving as a workshop, it
is a source of supply for equipping Lancaster’s
other centers.

Craft Shop Popular
in Lancaster

 

THE Oakland, Cali-
fornia, Park Depart-

ment, in cooperation
with VVPA, has con-
structed a memorial to California writers in Joa-
quin Miller Park. The memorial has taken the
form of an open air temple in the woods arising
five hundred feet up a stone stairway past pools
and cascades, an open air theater, and on up to
the Temple of Honor on the hilltop. There is a
stage 40 by 80 feet with complete lighting equip-
ment. The present capacity of the theater is 3,000
but will eventually be 7, 500.

Adjacent to Woodminster and the fountain and
cascade in Joaquin Miller Park, is a picnic unit
and fire circle combining facilities for group pic-
nics and meetings. The tables and benches pro-
vided accommodate seventy-dive people, and the
stove unit has facilities for broiling and general
cooking. _

An Outdoor Memorial
to Writers

PARENTS. and friends
of drama students in
Pontiac, Michigan, are
given an opportunity
to go “behind the scenes” twice a year and watch
plays in the making at the senior high school.
Each semester the community is treated to a free
dramatic exhibition and demonstration by mem-
bers of the Playcrafters Club, sixteen—year-old
dramatic group. Boys and girls demonstrate the
art of make-up, presentation of readings, use of
music, and then put on several one-act plays, some

Go “Behind the Scenes”
for Parents

-.

of them of their own writing. Meanwhile, in the
exhibition rooms, articles made by the Playcraft-
ers are on display. These include figurines which
are costumes in miniature, marionettes, hand pup-
pets, shadow figures, model lights, sound ma—
chines, masks, scrapbooks, scene sketches and
model sets.

Every member in the club contributes to these
semi-annual programs. Programs in blue and gold
are presented to each guest and refreshments are
served at the close of the evening. Since there is
no admission charge, all expenses are paid from
the club treasury. The club plans to continue these
programs which not only provide the students with
practical experience and acquaint the people with
their work, but also assure the club of whole-
hearted cooperation from the community for future

events.

THIS year the Asso—
ciation for Childhood
Education is celebrat-
ing its Fiftieth Anni—
versary. Thirty people became charter members of
the International Kindergarten Union, as the As-
sociation was known in its early days, at the first
meeting held in a Baptist church in Saratoga
Springs, New York. Today its membership of
37,000 includes teachers, administrators, students,
parents, librarians, social workers, and others in-
terested in children. Through 492 local branches
and 31 state associations, the organization works
to improve the quality of teaching and educational
opportunities for children.

The observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary will
open with the Golden Jubilee Convention in Buf-
falo, New York, April 6 to IO. Later local branches
and state associations will celebrate this event.
Further information may be secured from the As-
sociation for Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N .VV., Washington, D. C.

Fiftieth Anniversary to
Be Celebrated

AN organization com-
parable to the Police
Athletic League (PAL)
of New York City is
being formed in Chicago under the sponsorship of
the Chicago Crime Prevention Bureau to combat
juvenile delinquency. According to this plan play-

747

Combating Juvenile
Delinquency

748 ‘

Here’s the

. New
DIAMOND

 

Super Ringer

It's the finest pitching horseshoe ever
made! Aluminum and bronze. A
beautiful shoe with accurate balance
drop forged from special analysis. heat-
freafed steel. Already the outstanding
favorite of professionals and amateurs
who know the value of a good tourna-
ment shoe. Write for complete infor-
mation and new catalog No. P. S. 3.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 GRAND AVENUE
DULUTH. MINN.

 

grounds will be established in different parts of
the city, each playground under the direction of a
member of the police force qualified to teach ath-
letics. Baseball, football, and basketball teams
will be formed to play in the Chicago Police Ath-
letic League for Juveniles. The playgrounds are
to be equipped through funds donated by inter~
ested individuals and organizations.

High School Planned for Community Use—
The Benjamin Franklin High School, built in
New York City at a cost of $2,450,000, has just
been opened. This high school, located in Harlem,
will accommodate over 3,400 pupils. The building
has been planned so that it will serve as a general
community center open twenty—four hours a day,
seven days a week. In the case of this particular
school, a custodian fee which organizations usually
have to pay in order to use New York City school
buildings will be waived. This high school will
serve as an experiment in extra use of school
buildings and may be repeated in other public
schools in New York.

There is of course a large recreation program
already under way in many New York schools

 

WORLD AT PLAY

under the direction of the Division of Recreational
and Community Activities of the Board of Edu-
cation.

President Roosevelt Advocates Baseball—“I
feel it would be best for this country to keep base-
ball going. There will be fewer people unem-
ployed and everybody will work longer hours and
harder than ever before. That means that they
ought to have a chance for recreation and for tak~
ing their minds off their work even more than
before.

“Baseball provides a recreation which does not
last over two hours and a half and which can be
obtained for very little cost.

“Incidentally, I hope that night games can be
extended because it gives an opportunity to the
day shift to see a game occasionally.”

The Athletic Badge Tests and Physical Fit-
ness—Many readers of RECREATION are familiar
with the Athletic Badge Tests issued by the Na-
tional Recreation Association many years ago.
With the increased emphasis on physical fitness,
these tests have a real contribution to make to the
campaign for fitness now being conducted.

Pamphlets describing the tests are available and
a single copy will be sent free on request. Attrac-
tive bronze badges are available for the boys and
girls passing the tests. Because of the increase in
the cost of producing the medals it has been nec—
essary to increase the price to fifteen cents.

Evening Centers in Springfield, Illinois -—
The Playground and Recreation Commission of
Springfield, Illinois, is operating eight evening
recreation centers in school buildings from 7 :00 to
9:00 P. M. The gymnasium is used for a program
of basketball and volleyball, and there is a game
room at each center with ping-pong, target games,
checkers, dominoes, anagrams, Old Maid, and
other kinds of table games. There are craft proj-
ects for boys and girls as well as men and women,
choral groups at a number of the centers, and girls’
clubs.

The Role of Camping-—The February issue
of The Camping Afagazine is a special number
devoted to a consideration of the question, “\Vhat
is the role of camping ?” It presents the results of
the discussion of the \Vorkshop held in October
under the auspices of the W. K. Kellogg Founda-

WORLD AT PLAY 749

tion, together with significant papers on other
areas of the roles of camping by Dr. W. H. Kil-
patrick, Barbara Ellen Joy, James L. Hymes, Jr.,
Fay \Velch, and Lloyd B. Sharp. The report
which is most attractively illustrated is a real
contribution both to camping and education and
should go far in helping to clarify the function of
organized camping in our organized society.

Copies of the February issue of The Camping
Magazine may be acquired at $1.00 each from the
American Camping Association, St. James Hotel,
Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Joe Louis—There is no reason why we should
completely hide from public notice the fact that
~ Joe Louis had so much of his early experience on
the Detroit playgrounds. It should be a matter of
pride to all friends of the recreation movement
that when Joe Louis was asked what he intended
to do when he found himself in the Army he re-
plied, “Do what they tell me.” When Joe Louis
was asked how it felt to be fighting for nothing, he
replied, “I was not fighting for nothing. I was
fighting for the United States Navy.”

National Boys and Girls Week—National
Boys and Girls Week will be observed this year
from April 25th to May 2nd. The observance has
a fourfold purpose: (I) To develop the poten-
tialities of our boys and girls; (2) to acquaint the
public with local boys and girls work; (3) to em-
phasize the importance of the home, church, and
school; and (4) to emphasize 'the responsibilities
of youth citizenship. A Manual of Suggestions
and other material may be secured on request
from the National Boys and Girls \Veek Commit—
tee, 3 5 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

Music Educators to Meet in Milwaukee—
The biennial meeting of the Music Educators Na—
tional Conference, which will be held in Milwau-
kee, \Visconsin, March 27th to April 2nd, marks
the thirty-fifth year of this conference. A number
of special events will make this conference an out—
standing one, among them a music festival pre-
sented by pupils of the public schools, a church
choir festival or five hundred singers, and a con—
cert by the All—State High School Bond. Further
information may be secured from Conference

Headquarters, 64 East Jackson Boulevard, Chi—
cago, Illinois.

 

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

     _  w   .. 
THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, Inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO
A Governor Who Played Volleyball—A. E.
Genter, Director of Recreation in Pontiac, Michi-
gan, writes that Governor Murray D. Van Wag-
oner, or “Pat” as he is affectionately known as in
his home town of Pontiac, was a member of the

Exchange Club Volleyball Team in the Recreation
Department League for five or six years.

N .E. A. Convention to Be Held in Denver—
During the coming summer Denver, Colorado, will
be host to the National Education Association
convention which begins on June 27th. The dele-

PLAY MINI-GOLF

Teaches Novice O Lowers Score of Dub Golfer

Mini-Golf and Shufi-Off is playable in the recreation hall,

gym, church, parlor or on any smooth surface. Why not
start a small class in the rudiments of golf. Inexpensive
and Simple to demonstrate.

You taught tennis through my game of Paddle Tennis:
Now try MINI-GOLF.

Send for catalogue of Paddle Tennis, Rounders, Pad-
minton, (Chinese) Chungua Chess and Shove Ha’Penny.

BEAL'S GAMES. Inc.

277 FIFTH AVEu NEW YORK CITY MUrrcrY Hill 4-7239 -40

For information concerning

The Scottish Country Dance Society of the United States.
write to Beal's Games. Inc" 277 Fifth Ave., New York City

750 ' RECREATION K1 rs FOR AIR RAID SHELTERS

\\\\\\\\ u 0\- s . . ..\\- ~\~\\\ \\\\s\\- \\\\ II\\\
\ \uuuu.\.u\\v-u-“\\\-‘ \Q\\“V\\\ .3“
‘ \\\ \\\\ \

\
\\ .\‘ .\\§ \ ‘\\\\ \ \\ \ \ u\
“ “ \\‘\ V\\\ \ §\‘W

\
\ ‘. “‘\\\\ \\- \\\\ \\ \\\ \\\\\ \\\ \\\\\‘\“ ““ ‘ ‘ \‘ '
\
\ \\\\\\‘\\“\\\~ \

\
“\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\‘\\\‘
( “\\ \\\\\\\\\\\ ‘

   
    
 
 
 

 
  
    

\I
§

  

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

  

Your team members will reflect in their play the ‘
confidence which good bats inspire when they g :
step up to the plate. it pays to play with the
best. Write us for our I942 bat and golf , ‘
catalogs.  FREE FOR YOUR PLAYERS. .u.
A supply of the I942 edition of "The
Famous Slugger Year Book." "Of-
ficial Softball Rules" and "All You
Need Know To Start Golf" are
available tree for your team
members. Write us for
your needs. Please
address Depart-

ment R.

Med/M
LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BATS

_ gate who goes to Denver will be able to enjoy a
delightful vacation or he may attend summer
school if he wishes. Within Denver itself and at
distances only a few miles from the city are
located universities which will offer unusual sum—
mer school opportunities this year.

Information may be secured from Miss A. Helen
Anderson, Denver Public Schools, 414 Fourteenth
Street, Denver, Colorado.

Music and Morale

(Continued from page 708)

buy them. \N'e shall need to depend on our own
personal resources such as these musical ones for
our en oyment and recreation, and for keeping our
life wholesome and zestful.

All the world will need music then. And since
the erstwhile greatest centers of musical culture
in Europe have lost or submerged this phase of
their life, we in America must preserve and carry
it forward in our own life. We must carry for-
ward this universally needed source of renewal
and sustenance of the humane spirit in human
affairs. " -§

/ l .

\\\\\\\\\\- “x \\ \\\\\\\\ \ \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\“ \ - f
\

The Horizon Club

(Continued from page 722)

I
I
vice for Victory Program, scouting their towns, I
and-consulting with Civilian Defense officials for

work in which they can be most helpful. '

Everywhere the clubs have engaged speakers
(and organized discussion groups on the all-im—
portant subject of personality, citizenship and the
meaning of democracy—how they can best con—
tribute to its strength.

Thus, these teen age groups have worked out a
constructive outlet for their ideals, desire to give
service and be important in their communities;
finding, at the same time, through their many
parties, camping trips, hikes, teas and entertain-
ments, a most satisfying outlet for their need for
happy good times.

Recreation Kits for Air Raid Shelters
(Continued from page 736)

variety of children under very trying circum-
stances. Miss Mary Fiedler of the National Field
Staff has been carrying around with her in her
visits to various cities a kit which is arousing en--
thusiastic interest. These are the articles included.
in a stout manila portfolio:

General Supplies. Paper; pencils ; crayons; scis--
sors; slate to keep scores and for drawing picf-
tures) ; slate pencil.

Games. Jacks and ball; jack straws; tiddledy--
winks; deck of cards; wire puzzles; modeling
clay; crossword puzzles clipped from newspapers.

Books. Game book ; story book (Mary Poppins) ;
Reader’s Digest (for the one who doesn’t want to
play games) ; poetry on cards).

Musical Instruments. Recorder or shepherd pipe.
(Some kits contain mouth harps.)

Sources for Kit Material. Game Books: Handy
Kits, Cooperative Recreation Service; Parties—
Musical Mixers and Simple Square Dances, Games
for Quiet H ours and Small Spaces, National Rec—
reation Association; H andboolc for Recreation
Leaders, Children’s Bureau. Song Books: Sing-
ing America, National Recreation Association.

Different leaders have different ideas, and the
kits vary in some respects. The kit is kept inviolate
to use in case of emergency only, which gives it
added allure for the girls.

“SO YOU’VE GOT TIME ON YOUR HANDS!” 751

These are the leaders’ kits. The Camp Fire
Girls are supplying themselves with Memory Rec-
reation Kits, learning several songs, games, and
folk dances well enough to teach them to a group
who may be detained together in an emergency.
This Memory Recreation Kit, Camp Fire leaders
feel, should be an asset on many happy occasions
not remotely connected with the war or other
disastrous emergencies.

uSo You've Got Time on Yom Hands!"
(Continued from page 731)

start February Ist and will include courses in _

forty different subjects. Dramatics, music, art,
foreign affairs, and many other subjects will be
included on the program.”

Dayton has a twofold problem of taking care of
2,000 men in uniform now stationed at Patterson
Field as well as offering recreational opportuni-
ties to more than 15,000 new residents in the city
and 100,000 more in the immediate area.

All agencies in the city are c00perating under

the Defense Recreation Board. A Service Club '

has been established for the men in uniform which
is functioning with great success. A second com-
mittee arranges for all dances and recreational ac-
tivities outside of the Service Club. “So far,”
writes Robert K. Murray, Supervisor, Bureau of
Recreation, “no additional facilities have been
added for civilian defense workers, but all agencies
have expanded or adjusted their programs to meet
the increased load.”

Painesville Plans for the Future
(Continued from page 731)

Facilities Committee will search out the possible
recreation facilities in the entire city. As the Sur-
vey Committee learns of possible leadership and
program needs, it will approach the Facilities
Committee for places in which to contact programs
either in the entire city or in local neighborhoods.

A Committee on Business and Industrial Recre-
ation will have as its purpose the building of a
program for the many small business houses of
the city. At the same time a division of the com-
mittee will study industrial recreation needs and
attempt to arrange facilities for activities.

Under this plan the Recreation Department will
seek to unite all leisure-time agencies and the gen-
eral public in an effort to plan for a general recrea-
tion program, using all possible facilities and lead-
ership available. '

     
     
     
         
       
     
     
  
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
     
 

The Universitg of Pittsburgh

SCHOOL OF APPLIED SOCIAL SCIENCES

Division of Social Administration

Professional education on a graduate level
for the social services, public and private.

GENERIC PREPARATION AND

SPECIALIZATION S IN

CASE WORK
GROUP WORK
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION WORK
“ PUBLIC WELFARE ADMINISTRATION
SOCIAL RESEARCH

A limited number of fellowships and scholarships
are available, to be awarded on the basis of
qualification and need.

For further information apply:
THE OFFICE OF THE DEAN

"The Pionio Book”

0 Everything you want to know about
picnicking—from preliminary planning to -
the final event on the program—Will be
found in this new and comprehensive book
prepared for the National Recreation As-
sociation by Clark Fredrikson.

  

In addition to the usual program ma-
terial — games, races, water stunts, and
similar activities -—~ there is a section on
outings in rural communities and a chap-
ter containing suggestions for special oc-
casions out of doors—and here more than
twenty novel outings are outlined. There
are, too, suggestions for picnic and outing
services, for picnic hampers, and fire
building.

‘ You will find this book invaluable.

The price is $1.25. but if you
order your copy before the pub- --
lication date—March 25th—you
may secure it for $1.00.

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York City

752 NATURE RECREATION FOR DEFENSE

 
 

CAMP COUNSELORS
PLAY DIRECTORS
HANDICRAFTERS
DEN MOTHERS
DIRECTORS OF

BOYS’ CLUBS

 
     
      
   
  

Back copies of JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
contain loads of interesting, useful material
in Crafts, Simple Arts, Play Projects, Games,
Holiday Ideas, as well as teachers aids.

SET UP A VALUABLE LIBRARY OF
SOURCE AND REFERENCE MATERIAL

    
   
   
   
    
     

Look at these bargain prices, then check the
copies you desire, on the coupon below.

 
     
 

1 to 5 Copies . . . . . ..20c a copy
6 to 12 Copies . . . . . . .15c a copy
"Over 12 Copies . . . . ..12c a copy

 
 
    

     

       

I938 I939 I940 |94l

   
 

 

  
 

JANUARY ........ ..
FEBRUARY ....... ..
MARCH ......... ..
APRIL . . . . . . . . . . ..
MAY ............. .. |
JUNE ............ u
SEPTEMBER ....... ..

OCTOBER . . . . . . . . . .
NOVEMBER . . . . . . . ..
DECEMBER . . . . . . . . .

  
   
 

 

l

   

  
    
   
    
   
    
   
 
    

IUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES
740 Bush Street Chicago. Ill.

      
 

Please send me an order of back copies of

J. A. & A. Send me .................... ..copies which

   

I have checked, total amount $ ........................ ..

  
 

Name ................................................................ ..

Addrer: .............................................................. ..
C ity .................................. .. S tare .................... ..

  
    
   

Nature Recreation For DeIense
( Continued from page 742)

To the young men who seek to enlist for this
kind of leadership, I can only say that you most
have the courage of your convictions. In the cru—
cible of the service you can learn more about
nature leadership than in any other way. You
must so believe in the value of nature recreation
that you are willing to fight for it all the way.
Such spirit should not be cast aside merely be—
cause it is the hard way.

You can’t love your country if you don’t love
your land. You may want to go home because of
the hills or forest or beach or lake or farm house

' or surf which do not seem much to anyone else,-

but which to you is life. Put these together with
familiar voices and freedom and you have some—
thing to live for, to defend, and if need be to die for.

A Study in Contrasts

The youth movement in Germany seeks to de-
fend the morale, devotion to country, and “sol—
dierly attitude.” Of course, it is according to the
Nazis’ particular brand. We have our brand, too.
The counterpart in the United States is not scout—
ing but rather it is the athletic and recreation pro—
gram at the typical Army base. The meetings of
Hitler youth are compulsory, whereas recreation
in the United States for the man in uniform is
elective. In both programs there is mass singing,
drama, and literary expression related to national
ideals and physical activities.

The Hitler youth program has special hikes,
picnicking, visits to historical areas of national
significance, nature lore, topographic reconnoiter-
ing, map reading, camouflaging, scouting, photog-
raphy, and excursions. These are characteristic of
the largest youth movement in the world, namely
the German youth. Mussolini and Hitler have
done that much. Can we afford to do less?

I am asking for the enlisted man a privilege
which is equivalent to that of German youth. At
least he should be trained to meet him on an equal
footing. What, then, is the difference between the
proposed nature recreation program for the United
States concentration of enlisted men and the pr0~
gram of totalitarian youth? In a word it is this:
For totalitarian youth there is no freedom of think—
ing, press, or assembly.

In the nature recreation program in the United
States let us keep our aims for strength and en-
joyment through play. Let us furnish a functional

“MOTHERING SUNDAY” 753

"Mothering Sunday"

" OTHERING SUNDAY,” another name for Mid-

Lent Sunday, usually falls in March and is
a day which used to mean a great deal in the
English Speaking Christian world. Our Mother’s
Day is undoubtedly an offspring of this old Eng-

lish observance.
To many people, the Mid-Lent Sunday is a

bright spot in the penitential season before the
solemnities of Passion Week and Holy Week be—
gin. The church is often referred to as the
“Mother” and the “household of faith,” and by
various other names stressing the Christian ideal
of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood
‘of Man.
i On Mothering Sunday it was the custom for all
who could to return to the church where they were
baptized or in which they grew up, in recognition
of this bond of unity, forged by a common faith.
Family reunions were ,often planned for that day,
and what could be more appropriate than to bring
the family together at church where old neighbors
gathered to greet them after the services?
Members of a family who had left home always
returned if possible for a visit, and it was ob-
served as a day of happy reunion and rejoicing.
Next to Christmas, Easter time is a favorite
time for family gatherings, so we pass along the
custom of “Mother’s Sunday” celebrated in Eng-
land centuries ago, thinking some communities
might be interested in reviving the tradition.

 

 

program in nature recreation that excels any pro:-
gram provided by the Axis partners. Let us pro-
vide freedom to read the Bible, Thoreau, Emerson,
Daniel Boone, Walt \Vhitman, Charles Steinmetz,
Albert Einstein, Toyohiko Kagawa, and anyone
else. Let us indoctrinate the American ideal to
the extent that it also is worth fighting for. Let’s
offer the opportunity of nature recreation with the
freedom to select.

Senior Service Scouts
(Continued from page 739)

aiding the war effort but who are a drag on it
instead because their needs were not foreseen and
met in time. The job is too big for any one
agency to do alone. But with the aid of public-
spirited women who volunteer their services and
the cooperation of busy workers in related fields,
the Girl Scouts hope to make a sizable attack on
the problem. "

“GOOD MORNING”

UR ever popular dance manual “GOOD

MORNING” is now supplemented by four-
teen Early American Dance Records, recorded
(with and without calls) by Henry Ford’s old-time
dance orchestra. Four of these have been released
since December 1941, and more new records will
be announced shortly. They are constantly in de-
mand by clubs, schools, service centers, and recre-

ation groups. Chosen from the “GOOD MORN-
ING” book for their rhythm and simplicity, they
include a variety of quarilles, circles, couple dances,
and singing calls.

Be sure to fill out the following blank for a listing
of these records, as they compose an almost indis-

pensable teaching aid and add to the enjoyment of
the well-established class.

——~h—‘~HHHH~H_H~_~-‘HHH~-H—HHHH-‘_h

HENRY FORD
Dept. R—Box 100 ‘
Dearborn, Michigan

Please send me a copy of your catalog listing
EARLY AMERICAN DANCE RECORDS.

Name .................................................................................................... ..
Street Address ............................................................................... ..
City ......................................................... .. State ............................ ..

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
( Continued from page 746)
Terrarium. “The School Terrarium” is a new

Service Leaflet of the General Biological Supply
House, Inc., “61 East 69th Place, Chicago. Their
leaflets are free to educational officials. Write for
titles of their fifty leaflets which describe interest-
ing projects.

I Love the City
(Continued from page 745)
made up on a question such as this. They might

easily put their queries in such a way that they
would get the right answers according to their
own young notions.

We have been living in New York for eleven
years now and I wouldn’t have missed it for any-
thing. I am eighty-one years old. Country life,
city life—I count it all good. Everyone should
have some of each for a well-rounded existence.
And it is really never safe to be dogmatic or aca-
demic on a subect like happiness. You can’t put
your finger on happiness and say “Lo, here,” or
“L0, there,” for, like the Kingdom of Heaven, it
is within, and not determined by outward circum-
stance.

754

OLD WORLD EASTER IN A NEW WORLD SETTING

Engine

E, of the Royal Typewriter Com-
pany, are proud to be engaged in

the manufacture of an engine of war.
The part the typewriter is playing in
America’s war with the axis powers is a

vital one, for speed and more speed is the
very essence of our armament program.

Evcry day millions of flying lingers
must type instructions, specifications,
orders, and reorders before a bolt can go
into a tank, a rivet can go into a battle-
ship, or a rib can go into a plane.

Even on the field of battle, the type-
writer must help correlate the fast-mov-
ing action. The typewriter is with our
fleet at sea, for each aircraft carrier, each
battleship, cruiser, destroyer, and sub-
marine . . . eaCh unit of our Navy, down
to the little mosquito boats, has type-
writers on board.

 

Copyright 1'34‘2. Rnan "y-wwriter Camp-mm Inc.

of war!

Wherever men and women work in war
industries, wherever soldiers and sailors
go to fight, the typewriter must go with
them. That is why the Royal Typcwriter
Company is proud to be called upon to
help provide the United States Govern-
ment with the typewriters needed by an
Amcrica at war.

 

BOYAL W/éi/aéc/W/ TYPE‘VBITEB

 

 

Old World Easter in a

New World Setting

(Continued from page 710)

from the basket by the door which he in turn

places in the basket provided by his next host.
Those of us who have enjoyed the hospitality
of our Russian friends at Easter, who have heard
the Easter bells ringing, and have stood through
church services and weddings as have most of

 

THE ORIGIN OF BASKETBALL 755

The Origin of Basketball

E ARE PRESENTING here two letters which will
W be of special interest at just this time. The
first is from Dr. Henry S. Curtis, first secretary
of the National Recreation Association, then
known as the Playground Association of America.
The second comes from Dr. Ernest M. Best, Presi-
dent of Springfield College, where the game of
basketball originated.

To the Editor of RECREATION:

AS one who knew both Dr. Gulick and Professor Nai-

smith rather intimately, I am sure the account in the
December issue of RECREATon fails to do justice to the

former. Dr. Gulick’s was a creative mind. It was his

suggestion that led to the organization of the Playground

,Association of America, now the National Recreation
Association, and I happen to know that he had a great
deal more to do with the organization of the game of
basketball than appears in the account. He submitted to
Naismith a pretty full account of what the game should
be, and Naismith worked out the details. I have myself
always regarded Dr. Gulick as the real inventor of the
game. HENRY S. CURTIS.

SPRINGFIELD COLLEGE
SPRINGFIELD, MASS.
OEice of the President
January 3, 1942
MR. HOWARD BRAUCHER
National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue

New York City
Dear Mr. Braueher:

There has always been some feeling among those as-
sociated with the beginning of the game of basketball
that Dr. Gulick did not receive all the credit which was
due him on this project. It is difficult to tell how far
Dr. Gulick went beyond the general assignment and sug-
gestions as to basic requirements.

Yours sincerely,

(signed) ERNEST M. BEST.
EMB :G

the people in this small, frontier community, re-
' gardless of creed—are grateful, indeed, to that
early group of people who stayed behind when the
last ships left for Russia. Without them, the
church would not have continued and some of the
charm of this once wholly Russian Settlement
would have been lost. Just as the court life which
once flourished in Sika has vanished, so the other
traces of Russian culture would have gone without
an active church to keep them alive. The tradi-
tions which have outlived the people, and are now
almost community events, make life in this place
something a little out of the ordinary.

we
~©W kw ATHLETIC

fie/m EQUIPMENT

mm a, W. I. Vol! Rubber Burp... llilll] E. 25th SL'los Angeles. Calif.
Branch: 180 N. Wacker Br. Chicago. Ill. '

 

Cellar Game Rooms as Air Raid Shelters

fContimred from. page 740)

the players change places and the ithrowers take
the canes. Each hoop scores one point.

There are many games that can be played with
a very small amount of material, but there are
many others that require no material at all. The
spelling bee, a continuous story with each member
of the family adding a chapter to the story, a
family quiz, shouting proverbs and charades are all
examples of good entertainment without the need
of material.

Handcraft equipment Should' be available.
Mother Should grab her knitting bag while hurry-
ing to the cellar. Any handcraft that you enjoy

will help very much to pass time and be a change
from games.

Every Camp Minded Person

will want the

CAMP DIRECTOR’S HANDBOOK

“the different camp magazine”
0

«k A magazine of “how” to handle every phase
of the summer camp. Editorial content by persons
doing the things they write about. Monthly features
deal with the dietary, crafts department, personnel,
program, maintenance, operation, camp promotion,
educational values and a host of other essential
topics of assistance to camp leaders in private,
organization and institutional camps everywhere.

$ Issued in February $
1 March. April and May 1
0

' SEND YOUR SUBSCRIPTION NOW!

Camp Service Bureau of America
152 WEST 42nd STREET, NEW YORK, N. Y.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Storytelling

Bulletin Of the Association for Childhood Education, 1201
Sixteenth Street, Northwest, Washington, D. C. $.35.

THIS DELIGHTFUL BOOKLET on storytelling is a compila—
tion Of articles by librarians, teachers, authors, and
editors. It should be helpful in reviving and rekindling
an interest and appreciation for the art of storytelling
and, as Irene Hirsch says in her introduction, “cause ‘new
lamps’ tO shine far into the darkest corners and Old ones
which have grown dull through disuse to shine in the
hearts of young and old.”

Singing Games and Folk Dances

Collected and translated :by John C. Campbell Folk School,
Brasstown, North Carolina. $.60.

HE. SINGING GAMES in this collection, all Of which are
_ Of Scandinavian source, were previously published in a
small booklet called “Singing Games, Old and New.”
Part II of the booklet contains twenty Danish folk dances
which have been found very popular at the John C. Camp-
bell Folk School. This book, with its directions and
music, should be helpful tO recreation workers.

- Plays for Great Occasions

By Rufus Learsi. The Penn Publishing Company, Phila-
delphia. Cloth bound, $1.00; paper bound, $.50.

THE PLAYS Offered in this collection are intended for the
celebration Of ten of our national holidays. Designed
to add color and significance to these occasions, they are
suitable for school, college, and adult production. All the
plays may be easily staged and each takes about thirty-

five minutes’ playing time.

Designs for Outdoor Living

By Margaret Olthof Goldsmith. George W. Stewart,
Publisher, 67 \Nest 44th Street, New York. $3.75.

HERE IS THE FIRST BOOK tO be published which devotes
itself entirely to designing private properties for the
recreation activities of the whole family. It deals with
outdoor rooms, porches and terraces, the equipment of
the backyard, play areas for children, recreation areas for
adults, swimming and wading pools, bathhouses and log-
gias, outdoor grills, dining areas, and retreats. Through-
out beauty and taste in design and landscaping are stressed.
There are chapters on Planting in Relation to Living
Areas, \Vater in the Landscape, and Utilizing Natural
Features. Beautifully and profusely illustrated, the
volume is attractive in form as well as practical in content.

Music as a Hobby

By Fred B. Barton. Harper and Brothers, New York.
$2.00.

THE CASE FOR THIS BOOK has been well put by Ted

Robinson, book review editor of the Cleveland Plain

Dealer in his statement: “If this book had come a few

756

years earlier, I should now be an amateur musician of
the most virulent type. The common sense of the thing,
the naturalness and simplicity of it—why did nobody ever
trouble to make me understand this before?” And that
is exactly what Mr. Barton does in this delightfully
written and challenging book. He makes us realize how
easy it is for all Of us, even though we are not talented
musically, to enjoy one of the greatest satisfactions of life.

How to Play Better Basketball

By Ralph Henry Barbour and La Mar Sarra. D. Apple-
ton-Century Company, New York. $1.50.

THIS BOOK, designed primarily for junior and pre-college
players and their coaches, deals with the fundamentals
Of basketball. A valuable chapter is that devoted to team
formation and the responsibility of the director in select-
ing the right players for the team. Various systems Of
play are discussed, and a final chapter deals with schedule
making, business arrangements, training trips, and tour-
naments.

Favorite Square Dances—Kit 53

Edited by Lynn Rohrbough. COOperative Recreation
Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

HIS ISSUE of The Kit, dedicated to “the old timers

who have enjoyed these dances for fifty years,” will
receive a hearty welcome at just this time when interest
in square dancing is sweeping the country. About forty
dances as called by William A. Foster of Delaware
County, Ohio, are given with music for nine Of them.

Playground Surfacing

Bulletin NO. 7. Prepared by the Research Committee 011
Playground Surfacing. John T. Cate, Chairman. Na-
tional Association Of Public School Business Officials.

$.50.

THIS STUDY OF PLAYGROUND SURFACING will be Of inter-
est to recreation and park executives who are facing
problems similar to those of school Officials in planning
their playground areas. Copies may be Obtained from
Harold W. Cramblet, 341 South Bellelield Avenue,

Pittsburgh.

Planning Rooms for Some Activities

of the Community High School

Circular NO. 197. Federal Security Agency, U. S. Office
of Education, Washington, D. C.

THIS BOOKLET contains articles by a number Of educators
on the planning Of schOOl buildings for school and
community use. Of special interest to recreation workers
are those having to do wtih planning for fine arts, for
libraries, for gymnasiums and play areas. The material
is practical and helpful, representing as it does a report
Of a study made by the U. S. Oice Of ‘Education.

1
l
l
I

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD 757

Baltimore—“Cradle of Municipal Music”
(25th Anniversary Edition).

By Kenneth S. Clark. Republished by the City of
Baltimore.

In an anniversary edition edited by Kenneth S. Clark,
the history is recorded of twenty-five years of municipal
music in Baltimore, called by Mr. Clark “the cradle of
municipal music.” For twenty-five years the city has ap-
prOpriated money for a civic orchestra which has been
outstanding in its accomplishments. Many other forms of
music have been provided—a municipal band known as
“Baltimore’s Troubadours” 'bemuse of the fact that it
travels about the city in.a truck carrying a portable band-
stand; a' park orchestra; a colored chorus; and many
other forms of musical activities. The development of
this unique program is described in an interesting man—
ner in Mr. Clark’s Ibrochure.

Try This One!

By Alexander Van Rensselaer. D. Appleton-Cen-.

tury Company, New York. $2.00.

When the party grows dull, this book of amazing but
not too difficult stunts will help save the day! There are
about a hundred stunts and practical jokes in this ice-
breaking book, which may be used not only for formal
and informal parties but for picnics, stunt nights, chil-
dren’s parties, and many other forms of entertainment.

v.

Bibliography of Research Studies
in Education 1938-1939.

Prepared by Ruth A. Gray. Bulletin 1940, No. 5,

$7255. Government Printing OHice, \Vashington, DC,

More than 3,500 research studies in the field of educa—
tion are listed by the United States OHice of Education
in this most recent bibliography of research studies based
on 460 doctors’ dissertations, 2,840 masters’ theses, and
269 faculty research studies reported by 174 institutions.
The topics are classified under twenty-five main subject
headings which include Physical Education—Athletics,
Play and Recreation.

Directory of Social Agencies of the
City of New York 1942.

Edited by Anastasia H. Evans. Published for the
\Velfare Council of New York City by Columbia
Unlver51ty Press, New York. $3.00. '

With this edition, the Directory of Social Agencies of
tlte City of New Y orle makes its forty-fourth appearance
since it was started in 1883 by the Charity Organization
Soc1ety, and its fourth appearance as a publication of the
\Velfare Council of New York City. It is essentially a
cooperative undertaking of all the social agencies of New
York City, and almost 1,200 organizations are listed with
their addresses and statements on their work and
objectives.

Golf in Physical Education.

1941 Edition. National Golf Foundation, 14 East-
Jackson Boulevard, Chicago. $.25.

This attractively illustrated booklet containing articles
on golf, some of them having to do with instruction in
the_ game, has been published by the National Golf Foun-
datlon as a part of its extension program designed to
help bring about increasing participation in the game by
student bodies and to emphasize the value of golf as a
carry-over sport.

Park Use Studies and Demonstrations.

National Park Service. U. S. Government Printing
Oliice, Washington, D. C. $.20.

. This report, a part of the Park, Parkway, and Recrea-
tional-Area Study, is presented in two sections. The first
covers the attendance, activity, participation, and prefer-

ence studies conducted in cooperation with the several
State Park Agencies in 248 state parks and related rec-
reational areas in 1938. Part II relates to the organiza-
tion, conduct, and results of park use program demon-
strations in 1939. The report is attractively illustrated.

All-American Square Dances.

By “Allemande” Al Muller. Paull-Pioneer Music
Corporation, 1657 Broadway, New York. $.50.

This book contains music, calls, diagrams, complete
directions, and a glossary of terms used in square dances,
quadrilles and lancers, with extra music for schottisches,
polkas, and waltzes. The book is designed not only for
the caller and the leader or teacher, but for the average
group in the home, club, and school. It is written in-
formally, and the purpose has been to make the treat-
ment of the subject a practical one. Arrangements of the
music used have been kept simple, and they are also
usable for the violin, mandolin, and other melody in—
struments.

Let’s Understand Each Other.

By Eleanor R. Wembridge, Ph.D. The VVOmans
Press, New York. $2.50.

Mrs. Wembridge believes that just as there are small
pictorial volumes on “How to Know the Wild Flowers”
and “How to Know the Birds,” so there should be a
simple, illustrated household text on “How to Know
Human Nature,” especially the common garden variety
that manifests itself in members of the immediate family,
with a few rarer specimens included that are less likely
to appear among the more usual domestic species. And
so she has given us a little book designed to help us
understand people when they are under the stress of cer-
tain urges or drives, which she designates as. drives for
ego, sex, and parent-child satisfaction. A very logical and
helpful book is this volume about people and the world
in which they live.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the National
Recreation Association
OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. W'INANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, SeCOnd Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE. Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. EDWARD W. BIDDLE, Carlisle, Pa.

MRS. ROBERT W'OODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
F. TRUBEE DAVISON, Locust Valley, L. I., N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

MRS. CHARLES D. LANIER, Greenwich, Conn.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTH, \Vashington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. VVARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

