“ WANT to re-emphasize as strongly as I can the

community responsibility to provide adequate
facilities for wholesome leisure-time activities locally.
Recreation programs that will attract young and old
are all the more important now because of travel
restrictions, limited equipment, and lack of materials
for new commercial construction.

“More and more people must use their ingenuity
to find their own recreational outlets close to home.
This year, home tinkering, bigger and better gardens,
setting up a carpenter’s bench—all these hobbies and
many others assume new importance. Let’s do the
simple things that refresh our energies and thus help
the war erort.”—-Charles P. Taft in Recreation Bulletin,
May 1, 1943. Recreation Division, OfEce of Community
War Services, F.S.A.

When the Boys Come Home

OUR BOYS in the armed forces grew up in a country which increasingly gave them

places to play baseball, softball; places to swim and to skate; places which
provided the necessary leadership for music, for making things with one’s hands, for
participating in all kinds of dramatic plays. Increasingly our boys had a place dedi—
cated to them, belonging to them—to all the people-—where they could be assured

of comradeship; a place where decency was assumed as a matter of course.

When our boys come back they will ask us: Have you kept all this up? Have

you kept the home fires burning? Can we take up where we left off?

After the first World War one of the first big jobs of the American Legion
posts was to campaign for recreation centers for the younger brothers of the American
Legion men and for their own children. This was a major satisfying interest of the
returned soldiers. They had seen what recreation did for themselves. They wanted
recreation kept up on the home front for their families and for their neighbors. In
maintaining our recreation centers we are keeping faith with our boys now in Africa,
in India, in China, in Europe, in Guadalcanal and Attu; with our men who are

lighting or waiting to light for us all.

Our fighting men are having a chance to face what really matters in life. One
of the things they want for themselves and for others is the chance for comradeship,
for the enjoyment of beauty, for participating in sports, for sharing in neighborhood
and community life. We must keep for them the cultural recreation opportunities

they have found so important to satisfying daily life.

JULY I943

197

Photo by James Kilpatn'ck, Detroit News

A’r Sundown

Defroif playground children learn how +0 fold +he flag correcfly

 

HY”

Recreation

on the
Night Shift

By

ELINOR S. BECKWITH
Publicity Secretary
Philadelphia Y.W.C.A.

woman worker and focused attention on her

as a new creation, she is not new within or
without the Y.W.C.A., and for many years has
been quietly taking her place in the industrial
world. World War I resulted in the establishment
within the Y.W.C.A. of an industrial department
specializing in recreational-educational activities
of, by, and for women workers, but for the first
time in'twenty years or more there is a universal
interest in the woman worker.

This has aroused public interest and has made
it possible for the Philadelphia Y.W.C.A. to secure
community support through the War Chest for an
emergency war workers’ program. Steps were im-
mediately taken to meet the need for recreation for
those members of the Y.W.C.A. working on night
‘ shifts, and in May 1942, the first midnight pro-
gram was initiated at the “Y.” ‘

The program was initiated, planned, and car-
ried out by a group of war workers with the help
of staff members. Men were included from the
beginning, not only for sociability, but for assist-
ance in transportation and in “seeing Nellie home.”
Beginning with childhood games — jump rope,
jacks, and similar activities—“and with game room
activities and canteen, the program immediately
became popular and attracted such growing num-
bers that it was necessary to establish a second
night’s program at the same hours, from midnight
to 4:00 A. M. Subsequentlylate programs cover-
ing these hours have been opened in two other

JULY 1943

ATHOUGI—I WORLD WAR II has glamorized the

 

C eurtesy Philadelphia Record

branches of the Y.W.C.A. in different sections of
the city—Kensington and Frankford. All of these
programs, each somewhat different, attract enthu-
siastic groups of men and women war workers on
the 4:00 P.M. to 12 :00 RM. shift, as well as those
who finish their work somewhat earlier or later
than these hours.

“Isn’t everyone too tired to want to do anything
but sit ?” you may ask. Here’s the answer.-

At Southwest Branch, where the program was
started, game room activities, cards, checkers, and
other quiet games are still popular along with
dancing. Dancing with a juke box, however, has
never attracted the numbers anticipated, although
special dances where an orchestra is present are
most popular. Badminton for a mixed group has
been a favorite, with gym, basketball, and swim-
ming especially popular with the men.

Discussion periods on unions, ob problems, war
marriages, and similar subjects were requested and
have arousedreal interest among a group of men
and women who meet weekly during the late
program.

Kensington Branch, which also has a pool and
gym, finds little interest in quiet games and much
more demand for sports and dancing. Occasional
sings and special features, such as cigarette dances,
are very popular. The girls bring packages of
cigarettes to be sent to servicemen—“a gift from
the production line to the firing line.”

An entirely different atmosphere from that of
the typical Y.W.C.A. building exists at the Frank?

199

200 “Y” RECREATION ON THE NIGHT SHIFT

ford Branch which lacks a gymnasium and swim-
ming pool but is housed in an attractive converted
house. The group enjoys the game room, danc-
ing, and informal socializing and snacks which
they prepare in the kitchen.

As is true with all programs in the Y.VV.C.A.,
whether at midnight 0r midday, those who take
part also do the planning. Men, as well as women,
entirely new to the Y.\V.C.A. have welcomed this
opportunity to take their responsibility as repre-
sentatives of the group in carrying out plans and
give no indication that they are merely “tired out
war workers” who want only to be entertained.

\Norkers attending the shift programs come
from Federal war plants, the Frankford Arsenal,
Philadelphia Quartermasters’ Depot, and Signal
Depot being perhaps represented by the largest
numbers. Shipyard workers, too, are coming, some
frOm Sun Ship and Cramps. Private plants are
widely represented, particularly concerns manu—
facturing electrical equipment where large num-
bers of women are employed, such as Philco,
R.C.A., and others.

In Philadelphia at the present time the private
agency sponsoring a shift program has a real op-
portunity to meet a need. A local ordinance pre-
vents public recreation for any grOUp after two
o’clock in the morning, but this ruling does not
'apply to private agencies. Under these conditions
reputable public recreation centers cannot meet the
needs of second shifters when the program must
be carried on until at least four o’clock in the
morning. The Y.W.C.A. program is therefore a
demonstration which we hope will show the need
for further expansion of other facilities for the
second shifters.

It is important to keep in mind in considering
shift workers’ recreation that a large number of
workers are on rotating shifts. One month they
may work during the day from 8 :00 A. M. to 4:00
P. M.; another month on the second shift, 4:00
P. M. to 12:00 P. M.; and the third month from
12:00 P. M. to 8:00 A. M. We are therefore en-
deavoring within our program to provide activities
at different hours so that this group may stay to-
gether no matter on what shift
they work in any particular
month.

Accordingly morning activi-
ties featuring dancing are of-
fered those who finish work at
8:00 A. M. When the group
changes its shift to daytime, the

From the initiation of the Emergency
War Workers' Program in May I942

through March I943. 532 meetings

have been held at the four branches of

the Philadelphia Y.W.C.A.; there has
been a total attendance of I5. I 73. and
3.27I individuals have participated.

usual evening activities which have always been .
operated are, of course, available to them. In other
words, we are trying to plan a complete program
which will meet the needs of all workers at what-
ever time they may be working. “Ie do not wish
in any way to separate shift workers from the
group who were already participating before the
war.

Another factor to be considered is that with the
6-day, 48-hour week which is a minimum for the
majority of workers, Sunday recreation activities
are important. A new Sunday diversion is a sup-
per-and-social program at Central Branch spon-
sored by women defense workers to entertain
servicemen. These women, working six days a
week, find Sunday evening a logical time for their
recreation, And a natural outlet for their desire
to do something for the servicemen is the hospi-
tality which they can offer them. We are also con-
templating Opening this program to men war
workers.

A common assumption about war workers’ rec-
reation is that it must necessarily be carried on
near war plants. Our experience has not demon-
strated that this is universally true. There seems
to be some correlation between residence and the
place where activities are offered, but not neces-
sarily between the center and the plant. In other
words, pe0ple in Philadelphia are more likely to
go to the recreation center which is nearer their
homes than the center which is nearer their work.

The most positive factor, however, which seems
to determine whether a person comes to any of
our centers is not so much location as the fact that
friends are participating and the program is suf—
ficiently interesting to attract her. It is a common
occurrence for many of the participants in our
program to travel an hour each way from the plant
to the recreation center, and from the center to
their homes. These facts are offered not to belittle
the importance of decentralized programs but to
stress the response to a program representing
workers’ interests.

The usual problem of limited leadership to cover
the different centers restricts the variety of our
activities. Our experience has
shown, however, that war work-
ers want something more than
mere entertainment and that
they have a real interest in men- '
tal as well as physical activity. ”
They are also willing to take

(Continued on page 248)
RECREATION

w .

 

Photo by Martin J. Ford

Omaha’s "Swell-Elegant" Center

By H. M. BALDRIGE

ERE MENTION of the Service Men’s Center in
Omaha’s beautiful Union Station brings
forth the Army’s most descriptive adjective

“swell-elegant.” Here a man can get a shower,
sleep, food, more food, and play for almost 18
hours out of every day. The average time spent by
each serviceman is about three hours—between
trains. '
The story of this Center is one of unselfish citi-
zens who had the will and determination to do
something about a real problem. Omaha is the
center of heavy troop activity from all directions.
It is located mid-way between both coasts and
equally distant from California and the gulf, and
there is considerable changing of trains at this
Nebraska center. Although it is an attractive city,
unfortunately a bleak, desolate and unattractive
wholesale district surrounds Union Station.
Investigation revealed that an average of three
or four hundred soldiers changed trains every day,

JULY 1943

Courttsy Long Beach, California, Recreation Commission

and the average
length of time
that they had to
wait in the Union
Station was three
hours. This was
not long enough
for a movie or
any recreation,
but. gave the men
just enough time
for a quick walk
t h r 0 u g h t h e
neighborhood.
After this experi-
ence in Omaha,
the average sol-
dier’s morale
dropped consid-
erably, and the
city was asked to
do something
aboutit

Omaha people
immediately set
to work on this
problem. The
Chairman of the
Citizens’ Com—
mittee of the
USO was local
attorney Malcolm Baldrige. The problem came-
first to him and he selected one of Omaha’s most
efficient and well-known women, Mrs. Irving Alli—
son, to take responsibility for correcting this prob-
lem and from then on the story centers around the
ability and untiring activity of this woman.

The committee heads went to William Jeffers,
l’resident of the Union Pacific and Omaha’s out-
standing citizen, and briefly sketched the problem
for him. They had a real story to tell and it clicked
immediately with him.

He decided then and there that Omaha must
have a servicemen's center; that it should be the
best and the finest center in the United States;
and that it should be located in Union Station. lle
called a meeting of all the railroads who lease the
l'uilding jointly with the Union Pacific and won
approval for this project.

M r. Jeffers immediately called in a contractor

"at (l a decorator; he apprm ed plans and 0 iStS and

QTClCI't‘d the finishing and furnishing of adequate
: ace at the station. In an unbelievably short
time the beautiful and attractive rooms were ready

‘Cr'utinued (-11 fag" 214/ _
201

American Red Cross

 

Recreation in Army and Navy Hospitals

HAT TYPE of leisure has
w the hOSpitalized service-
man? It is not the earned
leisure of the working man or
soldier, but an enforced leisure
which is an adjunct to his illness. His use of this
leisure time must replace the satisfactions usually
associated with his work. In addition, it should
provide the relaxation and rejuvenation that gen—
erally comes from the enjoyment of leisure. '
Men who are confined to a hospital have new, if
only tempOrary, adjustments to make. Illness
places an additional strain upon servicemen and
thus increases the responsibility of the recreation
worker in creating a prOgram that will serve the
patients. Because the soldier must be ready to do
a full day’s active duty when he is discharged,
there are many patients who are able to be up and

 

By CAROLYN J. NICE

Recreation Consultant
Military and Naval Welfare Service
American Reel Cross

around but not well enough to
be discharged. Opportunities
for participation in the recrea—
tion program must be provided
for these convalescents as well
as for the bed patients who will be confined for a
longer period.

As the Army and -Navy see it, recreation is not
simply an adjunct to medical care. Its value for
both able-bodied and hospitalized men of our
armed forces is recognized. The importance at—
tached to these recreation programs is a direct out—
growth of the success achieved in public and
private recreation during the last ten years.

Men in uniform have left their normal social
groups and are cut off, for most of the time, from
contact with the civilian population, The armed
forces and civilian groups have recognized the need
for supplying them with recreational ac—
tivity that is familiar and will relieve the
tensions of military life.

In the hospitals \the American Red
Cross, as the authorized civilian agency, is
responsible for recreation as an integral
part of its medical social work program.
This program has expanded tremendously
in Army and Navy hospitals during the
last eighteen months as the number of
men in the armed forces has been in-
creased and the hospitals enlarged.

Facilities

The physical set—up and the staff are
the first factors to be considered in estab-
lishing a recreation program. Army sta-
tion and general hospitals have recreation
buildings varying according to the size of
the hospital. The lower floor contains a
recreation hall, library, writing room, and
offices. The recreation hall has a stage,

Easy-to-clo crafts help to pass away
the long hours of convalescelce

American Red Cross Photo

RECREATION

RECREATION IN ARMY AND NAVY HOSPITALS 203

with dressing rooms, at
one end; it is provided
with a 35 mm. sound pro-
jector and a screen for
movies and will seat from
150 to 500 patients. The
library and writing room
are furnished attractively
with cane furniture, writ-
ing desk, and book
shelves. There are offices
for the social work and
recreation staff, and in
the hall a reception and
information desk. Staff
quarters and guest rooms
for visiting relatives of
seriously ill patients are
located on the upper floor.
The buildings are built
by the Army and fur-
nished and staffed by the
American Red Cross.

The Navy hospitals usually have recreation
rooms containing office space for the recreation
worker, writing rooms, and a large general hall in
which movies can be shown. They are built by
and furnished by the Navy, and the movies which
are shown are also provided by the Navy.

The Staff

The American Red Cross hospital staff consists
of medical social workers, psychiatric social work-
ers, and recreation workers. The administrative
head of the staff is a social worker with the title
of field director (in Army and Navy general hos—
pitals) or assistant field director (in station
hospitals). '

Recreation workers are selected on the basis of
training. experience, and personality. College
graduates,.who have majored in sociology, psy-
chology, or education and have had experience in
community or institution recreation programs,
have had more opportunities to develop the ap—
proach, method, and skills for conducting success-
ful programs than most other groups. They have
a working knowledge which, with a flexible ap—
proach, resourcefulness, initiative, an even disposi-
tion, and a suitable personality enables them to
make the necessary adjustments and adaptations.

Since few peOple have had previous hospital
recreation work, the most usable experience is that
of community or institutional recreation, The ad-

IULY 1943

 

American Red Cross Photo

A Red Cross Gray Lady fills in as a fourth

in a touch-and-go game of Chinese Checkers

justments which must be made to the hospital en-
vironment and to military regime make it impera—
tive that workers should not also have to learn
recreation philosophy and method.

Because of the nature of the job, the mental,
emotional, and physical disabilities encountered,
and the unhappy prospect of battle casualties, the
recreation worker should be a mature woman with
emotional stability and with wide experience in
dealing with people. She needs to be pliable in her
thinking and flexible in making adjustments, un—
ruffled by trying circumstances or changing situa-
tions. She must be able to accept discouragement
and combat it effectively, to step into any situation
and lend a constructive hand whether the job is
recreational or not. Yet she must also know the
recreation job. She needs a fund of information
and a variety of skills. Having these is only the
beginning; they must be used to aid in the patients’
recovery.

The worker must sense little indications of in-
terest and build upon them with care. Her ability
to draw out the talents and abilities of some pa-
tients, and to stimulate those who lack them, may
well be the test of the program. She must know

204 RECREATION IN ARMY AND NAVY HOSPITALS

when to encourage and when to let the patient
alone, when to drop a hint and when to work

carefully and patiently to encourage participation.

Activities

Hospital activities must have medical approval
and be designed to aid in the recovery of the
patients by making a contribution to their experi—
ence in enjoyment, creative skill or social rela-
tionships, In doing this, they release the aggra-
vated tensions that come from mental, emotional, or
physical strain.

The prefix re in the word recreation means
creating again something- which has been eXperi—
enced by the individual or for which he has the
innate capacity. This places an obligation on the
worker to see each person as an individual, allow—
ing him to select or assisting him in selecting the
creative experience in which he wishes to partici-
pate and from which he will derive satisfaction.

The activities in the program cover a wide range
of interests and abilities and must be adapted to
the individual. Illness is both physically and men-
tally debilitating, and many things that appeal to
men who are well hold no interest for those who
are ill. The framework of the program must be
flexible enough to adjust readily to the changing
patient population with its wide range of abilities
and interests. There is no “typical” hospital pro-
gram, but there are a number of phases which are
considered in planning the program at every
hOSpital.

Everything that' takes place in the hospital is
directed toward the single end of the patient’s
rapid and complete recovery. Opportunities-to
develop creative. skills, to adjust to social situa-
tions, and to enjoy entertainments and hobbies
make a valuable contribution toward this end. Ill-
ness aggravates the strains that are already placed
on soldiers, and recreational
activities contribute to the re-
lease of these tensions. In
order to accomplish this there
must be some element which
will provide for individual
growth and development'be-
yond the mere acquisition of
activity skill,

 

In planning the activities
in an Army or Naval hospi—
tal, there are two phases to
be considered. One of these
is the passive type of enter-

reation.

"Hospital recreation programs can be
neither static nor stereotyped. There
must be constant change and adjustment
in meeting the needs of patients. Thus
our progress in the development of a
hospital program in the days ahead will
make a real contribution to the recog-
nition of the therapeutic value of rec-
The responsibility lies with
the recreation workers in hospitals to—
day, for it is on the success of their
program that our hope is predicated."

m

tainment program. Of these, the most popular and
most universally appealing is the movie. With this
in mind, the Red Cross has provided equipment
for showing regular feature pictures in Army hos-,
pitals. The films are recent popular releases which
may be playing currently in theaters all over the
country. They provide amusement and entertain-
ment for the evening and often are the topics of
conversation among the patients for several days.
In addition, they have a particular value in that
they may be a common experience of the soldier
and his friends and relatives in the home com-
munity.

Community groups and men from the post pro-
vide other forms of entertainment—plays, orches-
tras, and choral groups as well as talented enter-
tainers. Often there are members of the military
or community who have something Special to con-
tribute. In many sections, country dances may
offer a new experience to the soldier or sailor who
’watches or participates. Boys who come into the
service from Italian, Puerto Rican, Indian, or other
cultural groups may offer the dances or music that
are part of their folklore. Occasionally movie or
radio stars’ visit the camps and spend part of the
time at the hospital entertaining the convalescents
in the recreation hall and visiting the wards to talk
with boys who are confined to their beds.

Informal Activities

For the most part, these entertainments take
place in the early evening. The more informal
activities in which the patients take part occur in
the morning and afternoon. In this phase of the
program, opportunities for renewing or initiating
a wide range of experiences are made available.
Small craft workshops have been started in some
hospitals. There materials are available for model-
ing in clay, sketching, painting, woodcarving, mask
making, working with leather
and occasionally with metal.
There are many variations in
the interests that develop. In
a Navy hospital, the ability of
one sailor to make belts of
square knotting in cord may
spread through the wards and
develop so that other and
more difficult projects are at-
tempted. The presence of an
Indian in the hospital may be
the start in making small
looms for Indian head work

REQREATION

RECREATION IN ARMY AND NAVY HOSPITALS 205

and then carrying through to the making of many
articles. This capitalization of the abilities of vari-
ous patients for their own benefit, and that of
others, is one of the best outcomes of the introduc—
tion of crafts.

Some crafts are more easily adapted to the
patients in the wards than others, with the result
that the ward program may be more limited in the
variety of mediums in which a patient can work.
This is due in part to the very nature of any hos-
pital ward in which tidiness is an absolute neces-
sity. The use of a craft cart to carry materials and
partially finished articles to the wards, at the time
when work may be carried on, has done much to
broaden the program. Airplane modeling has been
a popular ward craft as has square knotting,
sketching, and some types of clay modeling.

In all of these, the craft skill acquired and the
satisfaction derived from the finished articles are
important. The enjoyment that the patient gets
from the activity, his increased skill and knowl-
edge, all form a part of his experience and enrich
his personal resources.

With the first edition of each hospital newspaper
that has been published by 'a small group of
patients interested in writing, many others have
discovered interest in writing, illustration, or car-
toon sketching. These publications vary in content
according to the patients, and often contain contri-
butions on everything from the current hospital
scene to discussions of philosophy. The tone may
be serious, humorous, or satiric. Many patients
have composed poetry and verse for the first time.

Sometimes the interest in writing coupled with
a flair for music has developed into writing a ward,
hospital, or company song. Appreciation for music
is almost universal. The radio-phonographs are
_rarely quiet, and the choice of records varies from
name-band recordings to symphonies and operas.

Groups gather around the piano for informal sing—' '

ing, and often the enthusiasm shown is so great
that an evening for everyone is devoted to singing
old favorites and learning new songs. Men who
have played the guitar, mandolin, violin, or piano
before entering the service find these informal
afternoons and evenings a time when they can
contribute to the enjoyment of the whole group.
Instruments for this purpose are donated to the
hospitals by interested individuals.

Informal dramatics have been a new experience
for many of the patients and one which they have
enjoyed. Talents discovered during charades or a

IULY 1943

party night may be developed through pantomime
or dramatic readings. These in turn may lead to
more pretentious attempts in short plays and skits.
Here again, group interest may result in the writ-
ing, staging, and dramatization of an original short
play, as it has in several of the hospitals. These
plays are enjoyed by the entire patient group, and
the audience feels a close kinship for the produc-
tion as a hospital affair.

Community groups have contributed a great deal
to the social recreation programs of the hOSpitals.
Girls from surrounding towns, chaperoned by
women from the community, often make a long
bus trip to attend a party or dance for the patients.
Decorations and refreshments and the general or-
ganization for such a party are usually taken care
of by patient committees with the help of the rec-
reation staff. There have been a number of very
clever themes used for dances and parties for such
occasions. In one instance, the idea for a Fiesta
party resulted in a mural of Mexican figures
painted on brown wrapping paper, with the bold
colors of the mural carried out in the other decora-
tions. The orchestra added a touch of South
American music in their introductory numbers.
Some of the patients painted the mural and dec—
orated the hall; another group took complete
charge of refreshments.

Occasionally a group may come to the hospital
to provide entertainment and then stay for a party
planned for them by the patients. Members of the
Red Cross Hospital and Recreation Corps act as
hostesses for a particularly successful form of
social entertainment—the Sunday afternoon teas
which are held in many recreation halls. Patients,
visitors, members of the medical detachment,
nurses, and doctors gather informally during the
afternoon to play games, listen to music, or chat
informally while tea is served.

Since much of a patient’s time is spent in read-
ing, provision is made for library service. At Army
general and Navy h05pitals, the Army and Navy
supply a regular library with trained librarians.
In the Army station hospitals, books come from
the Victory Book Campaigns and are donated by
local groups. Current magazines and newspapers
are supplied. The library and lounge are popular,
and the book circulation is very high. Many
patients help catalogue and arrange books, and
sometimes take responsibility for charging them in
and out. Volunteers, the Hospital and Recreation
Corps, help in both types of libraries, often having

(Continued on page 240)

Pete Moses Discovers Art

HIS IS, IN PART, the story of
eight-year-old Pete Moses

of Danville, Virginia. It

might have happened to any little boy in any city.
It is the story of how Pete, en route to find an
after-school “coke” found instead a new interest
and something which will be important to him all
the rest of his life. Of course Pete doesn't think
of it as profoundly as this—he just knows he had
an afternoon of real fun, that ended up with .
well, here’s the story—

Preceded by not a single lesson, a drawing by
Pete was exhibited in the Danville Arts and Crafts
Exhibit last February. Quite a mention of Pete
and his drawing appeared in the Danville papers.
It all happened this way—

Pete was moseying along the heart of down-
town Danville, fixing to get himself a “coke” or a
bag of popcorn for his afternoon pick-up,“ when he
happened to look in the big window of what was
usually an empty store. He saw several strange
things paintings hung on the walls as they hung
in museums and people, lots of them, walking
around looking at the pictures. Over in one cor-
ner, a lady was doing something with clay. Over
in another, a man seemed to be carving wood.
Lots of people just stood and watched all these
goings-on.

 

A young pal of Pete’s, “Butch” Higgins, joined
him outside the store. In one window they saw a
beautiful handmade four-foot model of England’s
famous ship, “The Empress of Asia,” complete to
tiny electric lights winking through the portholes.
Pete and Butch didn’t know
that the ship represented the

By ALICE GILBERTSON

National Recreation Association

O

that it was an exhibition of arts
and crafts—whatever that meant.
Pete had heard of crafts at the
summer playground, and of course, he knew lots
about art museums.

The two boys joined a group watching the clay
lady. The mud whirled around in her hands while
one of her feet worked a pedal, lickety—split. The
clay seemed alive. It made Pete’s hands twitch to
try it out for himself. From the questions of some
older people, Pete learned that the clay lady was
making a pretty vase just like the one on the shelf
behind her. In another corner, a man was carving
interesting things out of wood. Pete thought how
much his mother would like one of the small wall
shelves and decided to ask for one of those “carve”
knives for his birthday.

One of the pictures on exhibit suddenly took
Pete’s eye. Its subject was a dog that looked quite
a bit like “Shep,” a neighborhood pet in the part
of the city where Pete lived. Butch noticed that
the card on the picture said it had been drawn by
an eleven-year-old girl from their neighborhood.
Now that they both knew the creator of something
at the exhibit the boys felt more at home.

Casting a Ballot

Under the spell of his new feeling of ease, Pete
commented on the exhibits that interested him.
Some of his remarks were amusing as well as
original. They grew more so as he warmed up to _.
the inspection. He found that people were voting
on the picture they liked best. Say, this was fun!
By the time Pete was ready
to cast his ballot for “Shep,”

spare time of three full years
of Gary Johnson, son of the
Superintendent of Schools in
Danville, A handsome large
scale miniature stage coach
occupied the opposite win-
dow—a year’s work by the
same Gary Johnson.

The door of the whatever—
was-going-on was open. Other
people were walking in so
Pete and Butch decided to
walk in too. They learned

206

"Let every artist. every creative worker.
every man and every woman who has the
power to touch our lives with beauty.
know that he is indeed wanted. com-
manded to do his best. Let him who can.
sing. dance. act. write. paint. create. and
keep alive in men the desire to live.

"And you who labor and are heavy laden
in shop and factory. farm and mill. in the
ships on the seven seas. in the mines and
fox holes. in the kitchen and the schools.
lift your heads and look. into beauty's
face. catch her laughter and her sun. not
only that you might live. but also that you
may find the living worth the pain.'I
-—Angelo Patti.

he was really getting into the
spirit of the thing.

In fact, as he handed in his
vote, and the vote lady smiled
at him, he Spoke right up,“I can
draw, too,” he informed her.

“Well, how about handing
in one of your works,” the
lady said. “That’s what this
exhibit is all about — it’s a
showing of what people right
here in Danville can do in
painting or drawing.”

RECREATION

PETE MOSES DISCOVERS ART 207

So right after school the next afternoon, Pete
was back at the Arts and Crafts Exhibit. Under
his arm, he carried the drawing he had Spent about
six hours on last night. At least, it seemed \like
six hours . . anyway, he’d used all the time
between supper and going to bed.

After several attempts at picturing a big tangle
of fighter planes over Australia, he had decided to
draw something easy, His picture showed the
house at the end of Willow Street that some of the
kids said was haunted.

\Vhen Pete found the lady he’d talked to the
afternoon before, she remembered him right away,
and when she unwrapped his picture, quite a few
of the other pe0ple gathered around. The iirst
thing he knew, someone was hanging it up right
with the best of the exhibit. It was the biggest
moment of Pete’s life—worth all his hard work of
the evening before. These pe0ple didn’t seem to
think it was funny that the only thing he had found
to draw on was rough drawing paper. He appre-
ciated hearing a couple of women comment on the
clouds in his drawing. He’d worked hard on those
clouds. They seemed to look even better when the
drawing was hung against the wall. Pete looked
at the drawing for aominute, then all of a sudden
he felt a little queer and decided to scram.

But his thrill wasn’t over! The next day at
school one of his teachers stopped him in the hall,
and he learned that the story of his drawing was
in the paper with his name and everything. Just
imagine! “The youngest exhibitor at the Arts and
Crafts Show in its third day at 510 Main Street.”

But Pete was just one of the Danville people
that the Arts and Crafts Exhibit interested and in-
fluenced. Many of the men learned the beginnings
of carving and woodworking—a wonderful release
from war itters. Among other things, the women
. learned how to make their own table cloths by lino—
leum block printing. Hundreds went away from
the exhibit, thinking of art, not as something in a
.remote museum, but as a diverting form of self-
epr ession open to them and their neighbors.

All in all, the Arts and Crafts Exhibit proved
to b: one of the most interesting projects ever
initiated by the Recreation Division———one that
earned the interest, enthusiasm, and participation
of the whole community. The majority of people
who attended expressed the hope that the exhibit
would become an annual Danville event. There
had been previous showings of professional art in
this Virginia city, but there had never before been
an exhibit which also diSplayed the works of ama—

JULY 1943

  
 

.
, --‘ -+. _‘ :4» A. a;
had—n... .11...‘ Iii-I}. «nmmtm

. a“,

 

I
’ c
.-
o
s 4‘- ; ‘
-‘ a
s n v
o a
v1.
. O .' *-
, .
A. I __“‘

Courtesy Recreation Department, Houston, Texas

. . . artI not as something in a remote museum.
but as a diverting form of self-expression."

teurs, and which showed crafts as. well as arts.
The exhibit proved that the amateur entrees made
up in the colorful, human—interest quality of their
effort anything they might have lacked in profes-
sional technique. The display of amateur as well
as professional work encouraged other people to
go and do likewise.

How did the arts and crafts idea all begin?
Ellen Easterly, Director of Recreation in Danville,
has arts and crafts for her own personal hobby.
She is a firm believer in creative self—expression as
a real release from life’s monotony. She has seen
it lift the business of living for people of all ages
from a humdrum plane to something vital and
alive.

With the idea of promoting greater interest in
cultural crafts right in Danville, Ellen Easterly

208 PETE MOSES DISCOVERS ART

assembled a list of people known to be either
artists themselves or interested in arts and crafts.
One person suggested a couple of names, another
two more. Her list grew to fifty.

A Community Enterprise

She wrote a letter. Expressing the view that
“we have not fully explored our cultural art here
in Danville,” the letter pointed out the city has
“many persons gifted and skilled yet the public has
not fully developed a community feeling of pride
in the works of our artists.” It went on to say,
“We want this to be a community enterprise where
everyone will be free to exhibit his works,” and
also pointed out that perhaps there were some who
would like to learn certain types of handwork—
develop crafts as a hobby.

Twenty—five people appeared at the first meet-
ing in answer to the letter. A chairman was chosen
by the group. Interestingly enough, he was a
young businessman, himself an amateur artist and
craftsman, and manager of Danville’s Sport Shop.

The committee, appointed to locate the best
place for the Arts and Crafts exhibit, secured an
empty building in the heart of the downtown sec-
tion, Another committee interested the schools.

The Supervisor of Schools was put in charge of ,

the elementary schools and their art. The high
schools sent their exhibits. Entry day was Febru-
ary 20th for the amateurs—six days later for the
professionals.

For the actual exhibit, one committee was in
charge of the professional display. Another handled
the amateur works. The original group was divided
into committees-of—one to keep the exhibit going.
It ran for the week of February 22nd, from ten in
the morning to nine at night. On duty for two
hours each, five people a day kept the exhibit open
and operating. .

Over 200 spectators attended the first day.
Heavy hours were right after lunch and after five
in the afternoon. Works exhibited ranged from
water colors, oils, charcoals, and etchings, to
skilled wood, soap and clay modelings and even
hand-wrought pewter. About fifty amateurs en—
tered their works, and nine professionals were
represented. Further interest among the exhibitors
themselves was added by having those amateurs
who received the largest number of votes display
their work with the professionals.

So high did interest run that a professional
Danville artist now living in Texas sent a letter
giving permission to open her Danville studio and

select any works the committee wished to exhibit.
Another well-known professional, home on a quick
visit and fired by the general enthusiasm, spent an
entire evening putting the finishing touches to an
oil and sent it up to the exhibit the next morning.
To hold the fickle interest of the public, window
exhibits were changed every day. One day it was
colorful basket weaving from the elementary
schools. Another day, the 10x 6 inch muslin de-
picting the flags of the Allied Nations, also the
work of the elementary schools, was displayed.

Gourds for the Exhibit

The unusual was not lacking. One Danville

woman, known for her many intriguing hobbies

and-unusual collections, raises gourds for a hobby.
So successful in her gardening that gourd stems of
8 inches are not unusual. An artist as well as col-
lector, she paints the gourds in Mexican designs.
Besides the gourds, this enterprising woman con-
tributed a 4x 8 frieze which depicted in painting
the various uses of gourds—as masks, water-
wings, whistles, salt and pepper shakers, dry
measures, soup strainers, baskets for all uses,
drinking cups, and soap dishes. .

The papers not only carried full stories daily,
but editorialized. One message quoted the famous
educator Angelo Patri’s stirring words, “War is
the ugliest curse that can fall upon men, and every
bit of beauty that can be salvaged, preserved or
created, is precious beyond price. Now more than
ever the world needs the sculptor and every other
artist who can bring a touch of beauty to our daily
living.”

Besides presenting community amateur work for
the first time, the exhibit brought together the
whole community. Colored citizens, too, were in—
vited to exhibit their work. Although sponsored
by the City Recreation Division, details were taken
care of by a citizen’s committee—participation as
well as interest was community-wide. Danville’s
Arts and Crafts Exhibit is an example of what
other recreation departments can do to counteract
the tragic losses of war, so vividly pointed out,
recently by a prominent national economist when
he said that “wealth sufficient to equip full two
universities sank in the North Sea with the des-
truction of_ the two ships, the Bismarck and the
Hood.”

An exhibit such as Danville’s is an interesting
answer to the conclusion drawn by Fortune Maga-
zine, after its survey of 10,000,000 high school

(Continued on page 242)

RECREATION

'The Case for Games as England Sees ll:

 

Our readers. we feel sureI will want to
know whaf our Brifish allies are fhinking
about games in the present crisis. This
article originally appeared in the London
Spectator, and righfs for its use in this
country were secured by the British Infor-
mation Services exclusively for Recreation.

 

Trust, the perennial question was once more
raised as to whether, in this country, undue
attention is paid to games. A woman speaker who
thought that this was so said that in the interests
of a better world she would prefer her son to be
good at scholarship rather than at games. Given so
bald a choice probably most people would agree
with her. But proficiency at games need not, of
course, be incompatible with proficiency at work.
Wisdom, more to be desired than both, is not
necessarily the fruit of either, and as a part of our
national education there is surely a good deal to be
said for games: i
There are no doubt many crafts, apprenticeship
to which provides much of
the physical fitness and
dexterity that the playing
of games helps to produce,
as even the most grudging
must admit. But in a
modern industrial civiliza-
tion many scores of thou-
sands of people must in-
_ evitably lead an adminis-
trative, clerical or other—
wise sedentary life.

Man, as a species, may
or may not have been bio-
logically intended for this.
But such a life is, at any
rate, very different from
that which his survival has
compelled him to live for
the enormously greater
proportion of his history.
Throughout this time he
has been a hunter, a war-
rior, a manual laborer, an

JULY 1943

AT A RECENT SESSION of the B.B.C. Brains

adventurer. His existence and health have de-
pended on his bodily activity, the speed of his re-
actions in an emergency, and the wit which has
resulted from the experiences so gained; and,
apart from this, he has seemed to possess, as a
species, an apparently non-utilitarian instinct for
playfulness and play.

This has expressed itself, particularly perhaps
among the Anglo-Saxon peoples, in a natural and
extremely widespread love of games and allied
physical recreations. A few years before the war I
had occasion to interview upon this t0pic an un-
selected and consecutive series of one hundred
fifty London working boys and one hundred Lon-
don working girls, all between the ages of sixteen
and twenty. Of the one hundred fifty boys, only
eight had no outdoor hobby or recreation, and
only seventeen, as it happened, belonged to such
bodies as the Boy Scouts. But sixty—three regu-
larly played cricket and football, seventy-two were
cyclists for pleasure, forty-one were swimmers,
fifty—nine were country campers whenever they
had the chance, five were cross-country runners
and six were gardeners. None of these boys was
under any sort of compulsion. Their leisure was
theirs to do with what they liked.

 

C owrtesy British Information Services

209

210 - THE CASE FOR GAMES AS ENGLAND SEES IT

This also applied to the girls, of whom eighty-
one regularly went out for country walks, forty-one
were tennis players, fifty swimmers, nineteen coun-
try campers, nine cyclists for pleasure, two track
runners and three gardeners.

Too much should not be deducted from such
relatively small figures. But they do at least sug—
gest that the organized school games meet—at any
rate for a large number of normal children—some
deep desire apart from anything that they may do
in the way of actual physical education. But even
from this point of view they should never, in an
industrial nation, be too lightly regarded.

Most games, and especially the ball games and
such a recreation as boxing, open up—in a general
atmosphere of joie de vivrehnew channels in the
growing child for the coordination of eye, ear, and
the voluntary muscles, and provide special oppor-
tunities for the development
of sense and muscle c00pera-
tion. With this is associated
a cumulative and satisfying
feeling of physical self-confi-
dence which can prove noth-
ing but helpful in after life,
however or wherever lived.
Later, when elementary pro-
ficiency has been acquired,
these games afford chances
for the exercise of mental
judgment and rapid decision
in conditions themselves not
crucial but admirably suited
as a preparation for conditions in which they may
become vital. And it is difficult to see how all this
could be done as well, if at all, in the classroom or
laboratory.

But games, at any rate as played by the great
majority, have a socially educative aspect at least
as important. They are governed by rules ac-
cepted as necessary for their proper enoyment but
which must nevertheless be obeyed. Most games
involve playing with and adapting oneself to others,
sacrificing oneself from time to time in order to
attain a common end and conforming—whatever
one’s private feelings —to the decision of the
umpire or referee with grace and good temper,
though not necessarily with slavishness.

If a referee or umpire, by common consent and
after experience, shows himself to be incompetent,
he can be replaced. But in any particular game he
is the appointed judge whose ruling holds good.
All this combines to form an experience that must

". . . Every moment may be put to some
use. and that with much more pleasure
than it unemployed. Do not imagine
that by employment of time I mean un-
interrupted application to serious stud-
ies. No; pleasures areI at proper times.
both as necessary and as useful; they
fashion and form you for the world;
they teach you characters and show
you the human heart in unguarded
moments."—From Letters of Lord

Chesterfield (I694-l773) to his son.

 

surely be valuable for life in whatever political or
economic form of society; and again it is difficult
to see how this could be secured so well, if at all,
in a classroom, library, or course of physical
training.

Finally, as generally played by the great ma—
jority——and not only in thiscountry—games of all
sorts have gradually developed a common standard
of what is called sportsmanship, which is, after all
—and however it may be decried—not altogether
ethically unworthy. It recognizes that games are
not to be won at all costs or unfairly. It recog-
nizes that a man who is down is not to be kicked——
or at any rate deliberately. It recognizes that if a
doubt exists the benefit is to be given to the other
player or the other side. It recognizes that minor
blows and strains are to be taken good-temperedly
and without self—pity, It recognizes that the happy
loser is as entitled to his
meed of applause as the win-
ner. It recognizes that the
Winner should be modest, or
at least appear to be so. It
recognizes that a game is
never lost till it is won; and
surely this is a code or, at
least, a general attitude that
might well be of some use in
the building of a better world.

“A study of games is suf-
ficient proof that competition
is inherent in many of them.
I accept competition, then, because it is a fact and,
Iithink, of value not only in play but in life. A game
is a problem, and those who play it accept the chal-
lenge for its solution. Competition has no element
of jealousy, envy, hatred and unfairness; it is a
process of abetting one another in progressively
greater achievements in individual efforts and in
c00perative group interaction in which winning is
not the chief source of enjoyment, but only one
incident, even though an important one, in that it
marks the final step in the solution of the problem.
. . . Competition, then, has its rightful place be-
cause it is an inherent part of many games, but it
has no place in many of them, not in such sports as
swimming, skiing and skating, which are not com-
petitive in any sense, and when they are made so
they tend to lose their intrinsic value for the par-
ticipants.”—Neva L. Boyd in “Play as a Means of
Social Adjustment,” from The Journal of Health
and Physical Education.

RECREATION

What They Say About Recreation

I " E MUST CARRY OVER to the new world that
W is to be our present understanding of the
importance of conserving human values

and natural resources as a foundation for indi—
vidual well-being and national safety.”—Minnetta
A. Hastings in National Parent-Teacher, Janu—

ary 1942.

“We are a united nation today in the fullest
sense, and this unity will be expressed in the songs
which will be sung in our homes and factories and
by our armed forces.”—Gene B uck in The Etude
Music M agaeine.

“Hobbies are important. It makes little differ—
ence what the hobby is—wood—carving, book col-
lecting, sailing, farming or any other avocation.
. . . What is needed today is calmness, steadiness,
equanimity and relaxation.”———Edgar V. Allen in
Cracking Up Under the Strain.

“At the moment we are facing dark days, and
in these days the morale of our people and the
spirit of determination will benefit through contact
with great music.”-——-—Dr. Thomas S. Gates.

“What is of greater value to the parent than the
increased regard and companionship which is cul-
tivated through playing with children P”— From
Home Recreation in I/Vartime, Los Angeles De—
partment of Playground and Recreation.

“Happiness is an end result; it is not a means
by which the goal is attained. The winding path
that leads to the goal is one of mental poise and
emotional wholesomeness—the highway of zest

leading to the hilltop of satisfaction and inner con-
tent.”—Donald A. Laird in More Zest in Life.

“What is lovely never dies but passes into other
loveliness—stardust or seafoam, fiower or winged
air.”-—Th01nas Bailey Aldrich.

“The importance of parks and recreation in
times of national crisis can scarcely be over-
stressed. The first line of defense lies in the soul
of a people and is anchored deeply in the land. In
times of stress men and women draw peace,
strength, and understanding from the hills, the for-

ests, the waterways—places where quiet abounds.”
—Har0ld L. Iches.

JULY 1943

“A happy man understands the laws he obeys.
That is the difference between him and the un-
happy man. . . . Knowing about things, noticing
how things fit together—that is just what happi-
ness is.”—Robert P. Tristram Cofhn in National
Parent—Teacher, January 1942.

“I would be happy to see my children enjoying
the spectacle of sports but happier to see them
sharing in them.”—PV ill Durant.

“Now, when more leisure hours may have to be
spent at home indoors, a library card is an insur-
ance policy, a wise investment in free entertain-
ment. Are the boys and girls in your family reg-
ular library borrowers? Are you?” From Bulletin
No. 1, Los Angeles County Defense Council.

“In measuring the value of recreation, we are
so obsessed by the numbers who now participate
that we have forgotten all about the intensity or
quality of their experience.”—-—Aldo Leopold.

“The quieting effect of trees and the open coun-
try, the absorption of one’s interest in birds and
animals and the quiet country folk, are antidotes
for propaganda and war hysteria, and one regains
that perSpective which is an essential of democ—
racy.”—Isabel and Monroe Smith.

“Let us carry the spirit of achievement from the
playing fields and the pursuit of hobbies t0 the de-
fense of our country.”—A. S. Barnes and Co.

“A well-balanced life requires play as well as
work, an alkali, if you may so put it, to neutralize
the corroding acid of the ‘fret and fever’ in our
lives.”—-*-—Dr. Eli M oschowitz in The New England
Journal of A! edicine. ‘

“Each neighborhood has its own place and its
own duties toward the nation of which it is a part.
For it is in the neighborhood that we find roots,
that we begin to understand our life, that we find
fellowship, and that we begin to work together for
a common goal.”— From Report of Greenwich

H onse.

“\V e must, in the interest of national defense,
build up, not diminish, the gardening spirit.”—
I. Horace McFarland.

211

Joseph Lee Day in San Francisco

AST YEAR the Day’s activities
L were opened with a special
Joseph Lee Day procla-
mation issued by Mayor Rossi.
During the week of July 31,
open house was held in city
playgrounds where all activities were dedicated to
Mr. Lee’s memory. Municipal street cars carried
window cards with the text “National Joseph Lee
Day Open House on Neighborhood Playgrounds,”
and there were bulletin board notices on all play-
grounds. The daily newspapers, thirty neighbor-
hood papers, and recreation bulletin notices car-
ried word about the program.

Camp Matthew, a municipal camp, and the
Sigmund Stern Grove were the scenes of speclal
ceremonies. At its summer meeting the Golden
Gate Story League listened to the “Sunshine
Fairy,” a story written by Joseph Lee.* During
the week of July 31 storyteller members of the
League and playground directors told this story on
all the city playgrounds.

At every servicemen’s dance during the week
there was a pause and a brief mention of the mean-
ing and observance of Joseph Lee Day. An attempt
was made to secure observance at the evening
gymnasiums during the week by sending 120
notices to the groups using these facilities.

Central Play Day

A central Play Day was held at one of the play-
grounds to which all playground groups had been
invited. District programs were scheduled during
the week and all playgrounds conducted programs
and held open house. Featured in these programs
was a wide variety of sports, games, plays, music
and dance activities and novelties, swimming ac-
tivities including a water ballet. Playground
directors told their groups of the ideals and life
work of Joseph Lee and the reason for the national
observance of the Day. Over 100 recreation cen-
ters participated.

The Mayor’s proclamation and bulletin board
notices were displayed in the main room, the music
room, and the children’s room of the Public Li-
brary and in the Library’s twenty-eight .branches.

Miss Alicia. Mosgrove, Recreation Commis-
sioner, wrote and broadcast a program dedicated

 

' Sec back cover.

212

Following the same general plan used
in I942. the San Francisco, California.
Recreation Commission is completing
plans for its I943 celebration of
Joseph Lee Day on Friday. July 30.

to Joseph Lee, interviewing
five children about their recre-
ation interests. Gertrude A.
F reese, a member of the De—
partment, gave a radio address
on the life of Joseph Lee, a
history of the recreation movement, and told how
the San Francisco Recreation Department is
answering today's needs. The drama group under
the supervision of Drama Supervisor Hester
Proctor presented “Salute to Recreation,” a dra-
matic sketch written by members of the group. So
successful were these programs that program
managers of local radio stations suggested a series
of weekly programs by the Recreation Depart-
ment. .
Store Window Displays

Downtown stores in San Francisco have always
devoted a great deal of space in their windows to
Joseph Lee Day. Last year, however, President
Roosevelt had designated July 30 and 3I as Vic-

' tory Days in the war bond drive, so the stores

devoted considerable space to war bonds. N ever-
theless, thirteen downtown member stores of the
Retail Association and two florist shops gave con-
spicuous treatment to the Mayor’s proclamation,
Mr. Lee’s picture, and a statement prepared by
the San Francisco Recreation Department.

For the 1943 Joseph Lee Day in San Francisco,
programs of special features have been submitted
by component departments, including music, drama,
dance, athletics, and swimming; and units of spe-
cialized interests, including junior museum, mu-
nicipal camp, handcraft, servicemen’s activities, etc.

In addition to one central Play Day, zone Play
Days and programs on all units have been planned
and will include the presentation of Joseph Lee
certificates of award to winners in major events.

Directors of each playground were also asked
to submit the selection of a place on the play-
ground—such as the field house, baseball diamond,
court, etc. — for ceremonial dedication during
Joseph Lee Day exercises. Plans have been made
for securing “more time” on “more air” in spot
radio announcements—advance and 'current, inter-
views, dramatic prOgrams, ‘and special features.

Efforts to inform workers, war and industrial
workers especially, about the opportunities offered

(Continued on page 247)

RECREATION ,

In.

I

Joseph Lee's Favorite Games

As part of the program for Joseph Lee Day.
why not play some of his favorite games?

OSEPH LEE DAY this year is July 30. As part
J of a recreation program dedicated to his mem-
ory we suggest the playing of some of his
favorite games—games which he not only consid-
ered among the finest from a recreational point of

view but also the ones from which he got the most -

personal enjoyment.

They are old games, which means that they are
good games. They have survived many centuries,
have been given new names, have been constantly
adapted or revised by innumerable children—and
they are still being played wherever a large group
gets together. "

Joseph Lee has so much to say in his book Play in
Education about singing games that it is dichult
to pick out any one paragraph. We have chosen
this one, however, since it fiings a challenge to the
play leader on every playground:

“As to the particular story or drama to be en-
acted in the ring games, the children themselves
are not particular so long as they have the two
essentials, thecircle and the dance and song, The
dramas of love, or of trades or household occupa-
tion, even of medieval mythology, which the tradi-
tional ring games represent, are survivals of
grown-up games and dances. There is opportunity
here—which Froebel has so well made use of—to
select those stories which we think most worth
telling and to eliminate those that are stupid or
convey an undesirable suggestion.”

Looby Loo
(Singing, circle ga-me)

‘ ‘ '
II'H'I-I— - -—a_l.£- -|‘I_|‘_—|‘_—

A . ' n h :- —"-
IImIHI'IIIIIIIIII-IIIIII.‘lllllIll-lull-llIll-Illllllllllllllllllrlllllllllill-rlllI-llllvlll
l"‘-H- IIII III III-ll-I.I-II-I-I-I-III-I-H- .-.-I.IIIIIII'lillllndlnnu-Ill-II

   
 
 
   
 

   

   

I
.m—“—'—|—h
"-—I—I_\_—h-' IZ- -.'-' -- -'-_

II.I'———_ __I—-I_I'—-- --
k"_ — - — —I——II-'-I-_

          

ll~_l_-_I-_Q—-___———
"I -.-_-_———-—_I‘-— - — .—
K"- _- - _ - _I - _--

__.—#

_— _---_-_—__.
I |._—————I—-_H--_—
‘"_—'—I_I_I_I—I_—--—_ .—

 

Chorus
Here we go, Looby Loo— (circle skips to left )

Here .we go, Looby Light—( “ “ “ right)
Here we go, Looby Loo— ( “ “ “ left )
All on a Saturday night— ( “ “ “ right)

IULY 1943

l. I put my right hand in—(thrust right hand into circle)
I put my right hand out—(withdraw right hand)
I give my right hand a shake, shake, shake—(suit
action)
And turn myself about—(turn in place)
(Repeat chorus and action after each verse)
2. I put my left hand in, etc.
3. I put my right foot in, etc.
4. I put my left foot in, etc.
5. I put my curly head in, etc.
6. I put my whole self in, etc.

The Farmer in the Dell

not too fact

0
.‘iD_-—_——=——e_
5-. —I-__ ——_-"_'-
{I‘tI—:—s-=—I—-—'_— —-—._._.--.---

t" - r '

 
   

 

l. The farmer in the dell,
The farmer in the dell,
Heigh O, the Derry O,
The farmer in the dell,

2. The farmer takes a wife, (Farmer chooses anyone

(Circle formation, Farmer in
the middle. Circle moves to
left during all verses except
the last.)

The farmer takes a wife, from circle.)

Heigh O, the Derry O,

The farmer takes a wife,
The wife takes the child, etc.

. The child takes the nurse, etc.
The nurse takes the dog, etc.

. The dog takes the cat, etc.
The cat takes the rat, etc.

The rat takes the cheese, etc.
The cheese stands alone, etc.

(At each new verse, the
newcomer chooses.)

(On last verse, circle
halts and everyone
claps. The cheese stays
in circle and beComes
The Farmer for the
next game.)

pmwaee

Roman Soldiers

 
   

  

I -;-I_I—nt— \-_\-_—_
"u'i—I—I‘_I_—I--_ "I'— -——

     
   

 

 
 
 

 

Make two lines, each with joined hands, about six feet
apart, facing each other—one Roman and one English.
The Romans come forward three steps, click heels, and
retire three steps on one verse, and the English do the
same on the next verse. Alternate until after 14th verse.
After that, all players move in a single line simultaneously.

(Continued on page 243)

213

 

Courtesy Playground and Recreation Association, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

The Mayor Takes a Hand in Recreation

u 0 HELP make America
T strong, fit to fight and
serve on all fronts;
to help make America in—
vincible, for it takes unbeatable and buoyant spirits
as well as strong bodies to win in war ; and finally,
to help make democracy live by completing the
mobilization of the home front, I have called inpthe
City of Buffalo a Conference on \Vartime Recrea-
tion to be opened by a rally at the Kleinhans Music
Hall on Monday evening, March 8. . . .

“\Vhereas the purpose of this Conference is to
stimulate and promote, in aid of the war effort,
physical, mental. and spiritual fitness on the part
of the citizens of Buffalo.

“1, Joseph J. Kelly, Mayor of the City of Buf—
falo, do hereby summon all citizens of our city to
unite in support of this mobilization of our home
front to the end that Buffalo, fit and fighting, shall
do everything in its power to support America’s
war effort by thought, word and deed.”

So ran the Mayor’s Proclamation, published far
and wide by a cooperative press and radio stations.

Came March 8th. The Philharmonic Orchestra
Chorus, a hundred strong, singing “America” a
cappella, was joined by the audience of over nine
hundred citizens. . . . Distinguished speakers . . . a
panel of experts in many recreational fields . . .
questions popping at them from all corners of the
auditorium . . . eager answers . . , ripples of mer-
riment over a question or answer now and then . . .

214

By ESTHER B. WILHELM
Mayor's Conference on War+ime Recrea’rion

Buffalo, New York

an underlying understand-
ing of the seriousness of
the situation. Did the city
respond to the Mayor’s
clarion call? Did it show itself ready to do its part
in the organization of the recreational home front?
The answer is YES with a capital Y!

Now, that inspiring evening did not just happen
nor were the twenty—six different interest groups
that met on three succeeding evenings during the
next two weeks whisked out of a hat.

You want to know the why, who, and how be-
hind what is believed to be the first Mayor’s Con—
ference on Wartime Recreation to be staged in
this country— or any other, for that matter? You
want to know because you might like to do some-
thing about such a conference in your town? Well,
we’ll give you the low-down, and what’s more
we’ll guarantee that if you follow the recipe, with
a dash of local seasoning, your results will be as
heart-warming and as productive of community
cooperation as you could possibly wish.

The Reasons Back of the Conference

When Buffalo was born in the early nineteenth
century, its strategic location had already destined
it to become the industrial city it is today. The
imminence of war and then the war itself magni-
fied that destiny until it has become one of the
country’s leading war production centers. Thou-
sands of its inhabitants have become war workers,

RECREATION

‘ THE MAYOR TAKES A HAND IN RECREATION 215

and these are supplemented
by many more thousands who
came to the city to take war
jobs. Men’s and women’s and
children’s lives, too, have
been literally turned topsy-
turvy by the swing shift and
the graveyard shift.

Again because of its loca-
tion and its consequent popu-
lation, Buffalo became a vital
link in the induction chain for the western end of
this populous state. There is a constant flow of
men and women passing through the city on their
way to the armed services; there is a permanent
group of men and women in uniform here for re-
cruiting, induction, guard and anti-aircraft duties.

F inally. there are the rest of the'people who live
in Buffalo—neither in uniform nor in war plants—
housewives, teachers, businessmen, those carrying
on their ordinary peacetime jobs as best they can
during this period of stress and strain, of tension
and bewilderment.

Affecting the lives of all those folk could be
found the eternal problem of money—too much or
too little. Too much in many instances where high
wages and overtime wages put money into thou-
sands of pockets there to burn its way out, some-
times burning its owners; too little in other in-
stances where the wages and salaries, standardized
on a prewar or even depression scale, mean real
deprivation. Delinquency, both child and adult,
reared its ugly ‘head. Many of the real values of
life, for which the war itself is being fought on
wide-flung fronts, were slipping, temporarily at
least, into oblivion. _

There you have the problems in a nutshell,
problems repeated in many communities in the
country, and the Mayor, sensing them and deter—

mined to take the proverbial stitch in time, called '

his Conference on Wartime Recreation.

The Purpose Behind the Plan

As long before the Conference as December
work was begun on the tremendous number of
details involved, the framework gradually emerged,
and the purpose of the Conference was publicized
generally and made known on the thousands of
invitations that were mailed to the citizens of
Buffalo -—“To stimulate and promote physical,
mental, and spiritual fitness on the home front by:

I. “Ascertaining and verifying facts regarding
the recreation needs and facilities of the area for

JULY 1943

 

A limited number of sets of programs
and resolutions from the Conference nity.
are availableI and may be secured on
request from Mrs. Esther B. Wilhelm.
General Secretary of the Mayor's Con-
ference on Wartime Recreation. De-
partment of Parks. Buffalo. New York.
Requests should be accompanied by F
ten cents to cover the cost of postage.

 

servicemen, industrial work-
ers, and the general commu-

2. “Stimulating, promot-
ing, and coordinating recrea-
tional expansion in any held
or locations where facilities
are found inadequate.

3. “Devising means for the
dissemination of information
concerning recreational facili-
ties—municipal, philanthropic, private, and com-
mercial—to all persons living within the area.”

Who Did the Job?

Acting as honorary chairman himself, the Mayor
appointed the Commissioner of Parks, the Hon.
John A. Ulinski, as general chairman of the Con-
ference. The Conference headquarters were estab-
lished in the City Parks Department in the City
Hall, and work began in earnest.

Under the chairmanship of Commissioner
Ulinski, a cabinet committee of fifty-four ap-
pointed by the Mayor was organized, this consist-
ing of city department heads, civic leaders, and
representatives of a wide cross-section of recrea-
tional interests.

A working committee of six was selected from
the cabinet to act as a steering or executive com-
mittee. Then, to coordinate the related groups for
the Conference sessions, thirty-live organization
coordinators were appointed and fifteen activities
coordinators were asked to plan and be responsi-
ble for the individual sessions. To a resolutions
committee, elected by the cabinet committee, was
given the responsibility of whipping into shape the
resolutions that would come from the various
activity sessions through the resolutions subcom-
mittees in each group.

Lists of organizations and individuals were
painstakingly prepared. Contacts were made with
thousands of ‘organizations and individuals by
mail and in person, and organizations were invited
to send delegates to the Conference sessions. Hun-
dreds took an active part in planning the program
and carrying these plans to completion.

How the Plan Worked Out

Chairman Ulinski gave the main address at the
opening session of the Conference and set the

theme, as the following poignant extracts show:

“We must first obtain, understand, and disseminate
all the facts relating to recreation in this emergency.

216 THE MAYOR TAKES A HAND IN RECREATION

We need to use far more effectively the facilities we
have. Their use must be extended to all of our peOple
and at times regeared to our present-day occupational
hours. Private, semipublic, and public resources
should be expanded to the full—physical training
programs because of their value to all who partici—
pate in teaching courage, initiative, team play, and
in developing physical stamina; cultural recreational
programs, such as fine arts and music, must be made
available in coordinated programs offered to our _
warriors, industrial workers, and those whose
shoulders are carrying the normal «burdens of our
pursuits. . . .

“How to keep the large domestic forces tit, alert,
and vigilant; how to provide relaxation to the ever-
increasing army of industrial workers who are under
extreme strain—-that is the question. We know that
limited budgets have left normal recreational problems
unsolved, and the war has created new ones. Indus-
trial and military communities present a vexatious
problem, but our facilities, already overtaxed, must
be made available in a planned way. . . . There is an
influx of industrial as well as military population in
this area. Their needs, as well as those of our own
citizens, present the problems that this Conference
has been called to solve. . . .

“You who represent the home
front of Buffalo and the Niagara
Frontier are to be highly com-
mended for your keen and lively
interest. This weighty problem
can be solved by cooperation and
by an insatiable desire to help.
You bear living testimony to
both. The specialized conferences
which will follow are to aid the
agencies, private as well as public, in the solution of
their problems. The indefatigable spirit of the vari-
ous committees exemplifies success for this fine un—
dertaking. Radio, newspapers, personnel managers,
industrialists. social agents, recreational specialists,
educators, businessmen, civic leaders, laborites, artists,
musicians—here is a fusion of all_ the human forces
on the Niagara Frontier that are working together
toward the solution of our recreational problems. . . .
Let us in this community produce healthy stalwarts
in industry, ‘ht and hghting’ men and women who
shall strain themselves to pass the ammunition to our
heroic boys on the several war fronts, uninterruptedly
and energetically. Only then can we, the citizens of
this locality, be proud of the part we have played in
placing Buffalo and the Niagara Frontier as leaders
in the solution of these war recreation problems.”

Activities Sessions

Three evening sessions, devoted to special ac-
tivities and held in a centrally located high school,
followed, two in the next week (March 12 and
16) one in the following ‘week (March 19). In
this connection it should be noted that all sessions
of the Conference took place while the ban on

"Recreation is not a luxury during
wartime. It is the backbone of our
character building and our morale
building. Especially during war it
should be vigorously maintained and.
where necessary, expanded."

Hon. John A. Ulinski.

pleasure driving was in effect, but the CPA con—
sidered it of Such paramount importance that it
expressly granted permission for the use of private
cars where a convenient means of public trans—
portation was not available. At these activity ses-
sions there was a sustained attendance of between
two and three hundred each, night.

Each of these three sessions was preceded by a
general half-hour session with a speaker, after
which the groups divided into their several inter-
ests and retired to separate rooms. Each had a
theme, and an outline of the sessions will give an
idea of the scope of the Conference.

March I2th—“Make America Strong”
Fit to fight and serve on all fronts. Keep in
trim for Victory.

Subjects: Baseball (hard and soft), cricket,
soccer,’ handball, skiing, skating, tobogganing,
hockey, hunting, shooting, fishing, bait casting;
tennis, badminton, squash, volleyball, golf, horse-'
shoes, archery, basketball; swimming, rowing, and
water safety; track and field;
commercial — bowling, roller
skating, riding, pool, billiards.
March Hath—“Make America

Invincible"

It takes unbeatable and buoy-
ant spirits as well as strong
bodies to win the War!

Subjects: Art interests;
conservation (outdoor activities—camping, hiking,
nature study; crafts; dramatics; music; photog-
raphy (still and movies); radio; reading, study,
research and writing; special interest (hobbies).

March Nth—“Make Democracy Live”
Save transportation —'Grow food in Victory
Gardens. Revitalize home and community
recreation. Mobilize the home front.

Subjects: Victory gardens; home and neigh—
borhood recreation; homemaking, home eco-
nomics; nutrition, home nursing, home decora-
tion; lectures, discussions, debates and forums;
patriotic celebrations and parades; scheduled and
special programs; social activities, dancing, cards;
young adults—programs in social action; youth
group.

At each of these group meetings those present
were asked to register, each organization repre-
sented was invited to explain what contribution it
can make in the special field being considered, the
group eXplored ways to provide adequate wartime
recreation facilities in such field, and finally, the

RECREATION

THE MAYOR TAKES A HAND IN RECREATION 217

consensus was crystalized into resolutions looking

toward a practical program of recommendations
that it is hoped will produce the desired action.

Each chairman of the activity sessions was asked
to provide himself with a secretary to take min—
utes (the Office of Civilian Mobilization helped out
splendidly with its volunteers!), and these, to—
gether with two typed copies of each resolution
adopted by the activity session were filed at Con-
ference headquarters within two days after the
group meeting adjourned.

“We Resolve”

Following this series of activity sessions the
resolutions committee on March 26th was pre—
sented with a group of ninety resolutions framed
and adopted during these sessions. This inter-
ested and hard-working committee of II I men and
women devoted the best part of a day to consid—
ering and reworking, to avoid duplication, the
resolutions for presentation to a joint meeting of
the cabinet committee, coordinators, session chair-
men, and activities chairmen of all sections which
was held on March 27th in the Council Chamber
in the City Hall. This series of seventy resolu-
tions was duly adopted with slight revisions.

Action, Please!

Because of the sc0pe and force of the resolu-
tions, Commissioner Ulinski requested the cabinet
and general resolutions committee members to
continue to function as members of a general com-
mittee, and as' such a committee was unwieldy in
toto the Commissioner then appointed sixteen of
its members to an executive committee.

At the first meeting of the executive committee
on April 2nd the seventy resolutions were re—
viewed, and the General Secretary was requested
to notify the various committee chairmen and de-
partment heads who had been asked to take action
under the several resolutions.

This involved setting up fourteen subcommit—
tees to accomplish concrete objectives. The outline
shows the roads down which the com-
munity is traveling toward its desired
goals.

I. Sportsmen’s clubs to handle lead-
ership and instruction on fly and bait-
casting and juvenile fishing in city-
owned lakes and ponds.

2. Music committee to plan and stimu-
late park and neighborhood concerts and
community singing.

IQLY 1943

 

3. Dance committee to ,‘plan and promote park-
plan dancing properly policed for general citizenry,
defense workers, and servicemen.

4. Committee of the clergy to assist in the de-
velopment of neighborhood programs.

5. Health committee to promote and publicize
the “Importance of Health” campaign.

6. Young adults to stimulate the inclusion of
young adults into the bodies planning and func-
tioning in programs pertaining to social action—
debates and discussions in neighborhood groups
and in smaller social gatherings.

7. A committee of nine (three from the City
War Council Recreation Committee, three from
the County War Council Recreation Committee,
three from the Council of Social Agencies)—to call
meetings of representative community or neigh—
borhood groups to plan recreational programs for
the neighborhoods where the citizens find it de-
sirable after the city has been subdivided into
practical districts by the City Planning Commis-
sion in cooperation with the Recreation Division
of the Parks Department.

8. Homemaking committee to cooperate with
any neighborhood groups that may be set up as
well as individual organizations wishing aid in
any of the homemaking fields.

9. .Craft committee to cooperate with neighbor-
hood groups that may be set up as well as indi-
vidual organizations wishing aid in any of the
crafts.

IO. Dramatic committee to cooperate with neigh-
borhood groups that may be set up as well as in-
dividual organizations wishing aid in any of the
dramatic fields.

I I. Art committee to cooperate with any neigh-
borhood groups that may be set up as well as in-
dividual organizations wishing aid in arts.

12. Public information committee headed by the
Librarian of the Buffalo Public Library, using li-
braries and branch libraries and other established
institutions as information centers.

I 3. Water safety committee to stimulate inter-
est in and promote instruction in swim-
ming and water safety.

14, Patriotic celebrations and parades
committee to cooperate with neighbor-
hood groups.

Widening Fields
Other resolutions pertaining to fuller
use of city parks, the Education Depart-

(Continued on page 241)

Information Please .’

 

A l-louse-to-l-louse Recreation-Interest Survey

HE \VAR Recreation
Committee of Rome,
New York, requested

a subcommittee to make a
spot survey of the city to
ascertain the type of recre-
ation desired by its citi-
zens. The following steps
were followed in making
that survey:

I. A questionnaire was
prepared by the committee.

2. The city engineer’s office assisted by listing
every tenth address on the tax maps.

3. These addresses were divided into blocks of ten
for convenient handling.

4. The Civilian Defense Volunteer Office lent
enough workers to make the survey. These
were trained by the committee and sent into the
homes to gather information.

5. Volunteer workers from the Office of Civilian
Defense summarized the check sheets and
turned the results over to the committee.

6. These results show that 453 men’s question-
naires were returned properly filled out, and
53I were completed for the sampling of the
women of the city. Both together totaled 984
fully completed questionnaires.

7. The results for each item were changed to per-
centages of the whole to show what proportion
of the men and women of the city were inter-
ested in each of the 121 items listed.

8. The activities receiving the highest coefficients
of interest were listed in order. (See Tables I,
2, 4, 5, following.)

9. Those items in which both men and women
were to participate were combined into a separ-
ate compilation (Tables 3, 6, and 7) by adding
their coefficients of interest as compiled from
both the women’s and men’s questionnaires.
This coefhcient of interest shows the approxi-
mate percentage of the questionnaires on which
each item was checked. If the sampling is a
true one, and we believe it is, the interest co-
efficient should give a basis for making a fairly
safe guess as to the number to provide for in a
recreation program.

218

How to provide recreation for the growing
number of war worlters is an_acute problem.
Partners in Victory, by E. C. Worman in col-
laboration with a number of secretaries for
Service in War-Industry Communities. dis-
cusses this subiect in connection with other
problems involved in a consideration of
Y.M.C.A. policies and progress in war-indus-
try communities, and of adiustments made in
the past year to meet wartime conditions.
We offer here some extracts from the book.

TABLE 1 P
The First Ten Coefficients of
Interest in Various Activities

for the IV inter Season, as
Expressed by Men
Listening to the radio. .16.8%

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . .118

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . ..10.7

Football . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8.1

Card parties . . . . . . . . .. 6.4

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.8

Theater . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.6

Conversation . . . . . . . . .. 5.3

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.2

Bridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.8

Other activities, in the order of their interest,
are: basketball, billiards, boxing, ice skating, Red
Cross work, Camera Club, Civilian Defense,
parties, loafing, listening to the victorla, concerts,
visiting, carpentry, playing musical instruments,
apparatus work, religious training, choral singing,

playing in the band, miniature railroad, and shuf-
Heboard.

TABLE 2

The First Ten Coefficients of Interest in Various Activi-
ties for the Winter Season, as Expressed by Women

Listening to the radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32.7%

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24.0

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.6

Needlework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17.4

Card parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..15.7

Knitting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.7

Parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.0

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.8

Conversation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.8

Parent-teacher work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8.6

Other -activities, in the order of their interest,
are: child care, cartooning, visiting and entertain-
ing, concerts, loafing, ice skating, bowling, Red
Cross work, collecting stamps and coins, commu-
nity sings, bridge, first aid, interior decorating,
cooking, solo artists, religious training, Civilian
Defense, listening to the victrola, dress designing,
writing letters, English study, toboganning, choral
singing, lectures, debates and forums, playing
musical instruments, swimming, library, amateur
radio, U.S.O., nature study, painting landscapes,
tramps and trail, ping-pong, art appreciation, car-
pentry, shuffleboard, roller skating, skiing, ama-
teur dramatics, basketball, badminton, volleyball,
shooting, gymnastics, archery, athletic apparatus,
horseback riding, writing, snowshoeing, lifesaving,

RECREATION

A HOUSE-TO-HOUSE RECREATION-INTEREST SURVEY 219

hunting. public speaking, Camera Club, painting
still life, painting figures, woodcarving, pottery,
basket weaving, and play reading and study.

TABLE 3
The First Ten Coejiicients of Interest in Activities for
the Winter Season, as Expressed by Both Men and Women

Listening to the radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..24.7%

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.9

Movies . . . . . . . .I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.7

Card parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11 0

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.1

Conversation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.6

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.0

Social parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.1

Bridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.6

Ice skating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.3

Other activities, in the order of their interest,
are: Red Cross work, concerts, visiting and enter-
taining, Civilian Defense, listening to the victrola,
religious-training, solo artists, choral singing, play-
ing musical instruments, swimming, ping-pong,
roller skating, shooting, and horseback riding.

TABLE 4
The First Ten Coe§irients of Interest in Activities for
the Summer Season, as Expressed by Men

Fishing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.7%

Baseball . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .164

Radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..14.6

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.7

Conversation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.3

Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.3

Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.0

Boa-ting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.8

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.8

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.8

Other activities, in the order of their interest,
are: gardening (flowers), theater, card parties.
horseback riding, golf, football, cycling, basket—
ball, dancing, badminton, backyard games, bridge,
horseshoe pitching, Civilian Defense, victrola, car-
pentry, picnicking, loafing, Red Cross work, con-

certs, musical productions, visiting and entertain-'

ing, Camera Club, gardening (vegetables), ping-
pong, billiards, boxing, lifesaving, softball, caring
for pets, playing musical instruments, religious
training, parties, playing in the band or orchestra,
unclassified hobbies, handball, gymnasium appara—
tus, shooting, tennis, writing letters, croquet, lodge
meetings, and choral groups.

TABLE 5
The First Ten Coejiiicients of Interest in Activities for the
Summer Season, as Expressed by Women

Needlework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33.8%

Listening to the radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..32.6

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24.1

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.2

Picnicking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.9

JULY 1943

Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12.9%

Knitting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.9

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.6

Card parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..ll.6

Conversation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11.4

Other activities, in the order of their interest,
are: the theater, collecting stamps and coins,
parties, dress designing, child care, cycling, visit-
ing and entertaining, camping, tennis, loafing, car-
tooning, concerts, cooking, first aid, roller skating.
Red Cross work, bridge, horseback riding, parent-
teacher activity, community sings, fishing, musical
productions, boating, religious training, Civilian
Defense, solo artists, tramp and trail, golf, playing
of the victrola, interior decorating, archery, bowl-
ing, gardening (flowers), billiards, croquet, letter
writing, baseball, English study, ping-pong, lectures,
library, lodge and clubs, nature study, playing
musical instruments, amateur radio, badminton,
horseshoe pitching, choral groups, U.S.O. activi-
ties, debates and forums, carpentry, shooting, art
appreciation, backyard games, volleyball, amateur
dramatics, hunting, shufHeboard, Camera Club,
public speaking, writing, painting figures, painting
landscape, gymnasium apparatus, football, hand-

ball, lifesaving, gardening (vegetables), and hand—
crafts.

TABLE 6

The First Ten Coefficients of Interest in Activities for the
Summer Season, as Expressed by both Men and Women

Listening to the radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..23.8%

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .180

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.9

Fishing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11.l

Conversation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.4

Baseball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.1

Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.5

Picnickin‘g . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.3

Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.1

Card parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8.2

Other activities, in the order of their interest,
are: theater, dancing, cycling, parties, boating,
.( Continued on page 240)

 

Partners in Victory, an Association Press
publicationI though designed primarily for
workers in the Y.M.C.A. movement' is so
challenging a document and contains so
much of interest and practical help for rec-
reation leaders conducting activities for
workers in war industries that copies are
now being made available. at $|.00 each.
from the National Recreation Association.

M

Recreation in War

the papers over the cur-
tailment of school sports

naturally arouses interest in
the importance of all recrea-
tions during wartime. Even
though our President some
years ago officially gave out a
statement in support of main- '
taining healthful recreational programs, there still
seems to be some doubt that such programs are
serving patriotic ends. There is a feeling, for ex-
ample, that the customary peacetime recreations
divert our—xpeople’s time from more needed war
pursuits, that they use up tires and materials, and
that they detract people’s attention from the grim—
mer aSpects of the war.

But let us look at the other side of this question.

True, we are a nation at war. Our energies are
rapidly being converted to the immediate aim of
self-survival and the more remote aim of accom-
plishing a permanent peace. We find ourselves
forced to take stock of our resources; resources
not only in the form of armaments, civilian pro-
tection, commodities, man power, and physical fit-
ness, but also of those intangibles of the human
spirit—morale and the will to win. Thus consid—
ered, recreation assumes its rightful place as a
boon in this day when discouragement and tragedy
stalk our everyday life; for recreation is meant to
uplift and to uphold and not to tear down and
destroy. Recreation cheers the human spirit ; it is
a re-creati've tonic for a tired body and weary
soul; and more than that, it is an avenue for self-
expression—an outlet for eager muscles and for
eager impulses.
' Truly, then, recreation has its place in a nation
at war—and an important place. We are all being
called upon to work harder than ever before. More
and more, the limits of endurance will be reached.
We must take heed, therefore, of some of the com-
mon phenomena that we have tacitly come to ac-
cept as wise and in the nature of forethought. The
musician does not keep the strings of his instru—
ment taut all the time; the drummer has learned
to loosen the head of his drum when it is not being
beaten; the athlete knows better than to try con—
tinuously to break his record. And so in the same
sense, none of us can work all the time at sustained

220

THE CURRENT discussion in

Much is being said and written these
days about the values of recreation in
wartime. An editorial which appeared in
the November I942 issue of- Tbe Jour-
nal of Health and Physical Education
presents these values so convincingly
that we are reprinting the statement.

 

pressure, Physiologists tell us
that when we are completely
tired we need rest or sleep;
but that when we are only
partially tired we can get re-
laxation and even recupera—
tion by doing something dif-
ferent from the thing we have
been doing. Here is where
recreation comes in to supply a felt want. It offers
a variety of activities that in turn offer change.
And in change there is relaxation.

Specifically, then, we are ready to state some of
the essential contributions of recreation to a nation
at war. It will help us to relax from the constant
tension of attending to the war. In our chosen
recreative pursuits we can forget—even though
temporarilye—the scare headlines of the newspa—
pers, the repetitious news broadcasts of the radio.
we can retire to a world of harmony, creative-
ness, and sociability; one without strife. Thus re—
freshed, we find a therapeutic agent for the mental
stability so needed in these days of worry and
trial. And, paradoxically, for this very reason, it
can be said that any recreation that helps us to
forget the war will help as to win the war.

But more than that! We can by judicious
selection of recreative activities put recreation to
work in our patriotic cause. We can engage in
physical activities that will help to build physical
fitness, not only for ourselves as individuals but
for the nation collectively. Certainly those activi-
ties that contribute to optimum health, to rugged
development, to endurance, to personal safety, and
ti) combative Spirit have survival value in the
emergency at hand. One’s work today is not of
the type that gives such all-around physical pre—
paredness. Therefore it must be supplemented by
those forms of physical exercise that best train the
individual to perform difficult feats with ease and‘
economical expenditure of effort. Total—body exer-
cise has its place in giving this optimum of condi—i'
tioning and service.

Assuming mental stability and a body trained
to its peak in health and skill, are there other
special services that recreation may be called upon
to render? The answer is yes. Recreation is being
called upon to furnish a community of interest

(Continued on page 242)
RECREATION

Boston’s New Playground

HE SITE of the house where

John Harvard lived and of

the meeting house in which
he preached more _than 300
years ago has now become a
playground where the boys and
girls of Boston will enjoy many happy hours in
years to come.

An alumnus of Harvard, who remains anony-
mous, purchased this property on Town Hill in the
Charlestown section of Boston and deeded it to the
University with the expressed hope that the Uni-
versity would in turn give the property to the city
of Boston as a playground. Municipal authorities
met the expense of converting the property to a
playground area and on May 2 the John Harvard
Mall was dedicated.

Town Hill is an historic spot. Here in 1630
came John Winthrop and his company of about
eight hundred, making the strongest settlement in
Massachusetts Bay and leading shortly to the set-
tlement of Boston.

John Harvard came to Town Hill as a puritan
minister from England in 1637 and lived there
until he died the following year. He left half his
estate and his complete library of over f0ur hun—

"Few men in history of whom we know
so little have left a_ more enduring
monument than the one in whose mem-
ory this noble gift is dedicated to-

day."—Dz'. Charles H. McIlwain.

dred books to a college which
had been established just two
years before, and for this bene-
faction the Great and General
Court of Massachusetts Bay
“ordered that the Colledge
agreed upon formerly to bee built at Cambridg
shalbee called Harvard Colledge.”

At the dedication exercises for Boston’s new
playground special messages were delivered by
President James B. Conant and by Dr. Charles H.
McIlwain, Eaton Professor of the Science of Gov-
ernment at Harvard. Governor Leverett Salton—
stall of Massachusetts was also present and spoke
briefly.

In making the presentation to the city, Dr.
Conant said: “We take a moment today from the
thoughts of a desperate war in order to hold a
simple ceremony. In one sense our gathering this
afternoon has no relation to the bitter struggle in
which the nation is now engaged. We launch no
ships, review no troops, present the country with
neither arms nor amunition. Rather we open a
peaceful playground for the young, a pleasant
breathing space in a city’s turmoil. Yet in so doing

(Continued on page 246)

 

JULY 1943

Harvard University News OHire

221

After Retirement—What?

ROWING OLD in years
but keeping young
in body, mind and

spirit is an art. It is a
line art with some. Youth
lingers with Bernard
Shaw, Henry Ford, Senator Carter Glass, and a
few others who, like them, have maintained their
youth by the prosecution of thrilling interests—
writing books, manufacturing automobiles, or lead-
ing battles for political progress. They have been
too busy to be conscious of birthdays, and time has
passed. therefore, too swiftly to leave a deep im-
pression.

Unhappily, all of us are not so fortunate in the
nature of our work or the conditions of our em-
ployment. Most of us work under conditions which
make us continually conscious of the passing of the
years. Insurance policies, employment conditions,
retirement regulations, and of course our friends
remind us of the accumulation of birthdays. Rules
are made and enforced which require our retire-
ment from our chosen vocations at certain age
limits, regardless of physical vigor, mental pene-
tration, or moral power.

This fact has raised serious social, economic and
governmental problems. But while the public is

Fisherman Wins’read on Natchi’roches' Cane River

222

By MARVIN S. PITTMAN

Professor Wins’read has his answer.
What are you doing to find yours?

 

making up its mind as to
the- best methods of deal-
ing with these issues,
Robert Whitthorn Win-
stead, Professor of Latin
at the Louisiana State
Normal College, has solved this problem for him-
self. During the many years that he has been
teaching, he has learned and practised a variety of
leisure arts with happy results. They have pro-
vided relaxation from his work throughout the
years and now they constitute a refuge to which he
may turn with confidence and satisfaction.

Since 1908 Mr. W instead has been teaching at
the Louisiana Normal College. His tenure as a
teacher is now coming to an end. In compliance
with the rules, he must turn his back upon his
classroom and take up other pursuits. Fortunately
he has a bag full of interesting tricks—golf, fishing,
hunting, music, creative arts, and church work—
any one of which would be an asset for most men

as they approach the tape line marked “Retire-
ment.”

First of All—Community Service

Professor Winstead’s interest in and knowledge
of golf is the outgrowth of the needs of the Louisi-
ana Normal College and
the community of N atch-
itoches for wholesome
physical sports. Twenty
years ago he did not
know a golf course from
a race track, a niblick
from a putter. The col-
lege owned a large and
beautiful tract of land ad-
jacent to the campus and
ideally suited for a golf
course. Its students need-
ed recreation and educa-
tion for their leisure and
golf was in the air. Other
colleges were establishing
golf courses, so, why not
Louisiana Normal ? It had
the land. It had the need.

All it lacked was a leader

RECREATION

AFTER RETIREMENT—WHAT? 223

—someo ne who would look after
the planning and construction
of the course and then get the
students to use it. Always will-
ing to help out, Professor Win—
stead volunteered his services
and was chosen for the job.
So the job was done—well done. Salary? Noth—
ing, of course.

Presently the lovely little city of Natchitoches,
with a population of from 4,000 to 5,000 removed
from the current of traffic by the red Red River and
seven long miles, decided that it also should fall in
line with the trend of the times and take up the
sports in vogue among its city neighbors. It, too,
decided to have a country club and a golf course.
So once again “Prof” Winstead was commandeered
and put to work on the job of planning and per—
fecting another golf course, at the same salary he
had received for the job at the college! Again the
job was well done, and the Natchitoches course is
worthy of the admiration of the critics and is a
delight to the experts—the chaps who really know.
When they come to play and want competition,
real competition, they call for Robert Winstead, the
golf playing, Latin teaching, college professor.

F ishing—An Art

While golf is a somewhat recent sport for the
professor, fishing is an art which he learned away
back when he was carrying buck-eyes and rabbit
feet in his pockets for good luck, bearing stone
bruises on both heels, and vying with red heads for
honors in the mulberry trees. The creeks and
small rivers that ran out of the Tennessee hills,
where he was reared, were filled with fish sixty
years ago—trout, bass, bream. He learned how to

catch them with a pin hook, an art which makes .

him a master fisherman now on Natchitoches’
Cane River where fish abound,

Fisherman \rV instead no longer uses a pin hook.
He has all sorts of fancy reels and hooks, strings
and bags, boats and baits, but they aren’t really
necessary for his fun. When he “quits professor-
ing,” he says, he’s going back to Shady Bend on
Duck Creek and fish as he used to in his boyhood
days—pin hook, ground puppies for bait, bare feet,
stone bruises and all that makes catching fish real
fun and eating them a boy’s paradise.

A wise hunter is one who adjusts his hunting to
his environment. A hunter who can get satisfac-
tion only when he can kill lions, tigers, polar bear,
elk, mountain goats or deer, is limited in oppor-

JULY 1943

When Professor Winstead teaches his
last class at Louisiana Normal Col-
lege and closes and locks his desk.
he will know. from long association
with hobbies of many kinds, iust how
to spend his leisure most enioyably.

tunities to enjoy his sport and
finds the sport very expensive
——too limited in fact and too
expensive for a professor in a
Louisiana Teachers College.
Even bear, deer, ducks, geese,
and game birds are protected
by game laws in Louisiana and good hunting
grounds are far removed from Natchitoches, even
when the hunting season is on. For that reason,
Professor VVinstead selects the type of hunting
which lasts the year round and at the same time
has genuine sport in doing it. Of course he hunts
quail in season. He has excellent dogs and guns
to suit the occasion. Squirrel hunting is indulged
in occasionally, but his real sport is hunting birds
of prey— particularly hawks and crows. Anyone
who can bag those clever birds is worthy of a dis—
tinguished service medal as a real sportsman!

Mr, W instead does the greater portion of his
hawk and crow hunting while driving his auto.
He drives along the highways and country roads
until he sees a hawk or a crow. Before the bird
knows it, he is only another notch on the profes—
sor’s game log, which acquires hundreds of new
notches each year. This Sport with the gun not
only protects the watermelon and peanut patches
and chicken yards of the farmers, but also relaxes
the nerves and strengthens the body of the pro-
fessor.

Selecting, buying, repairing, and remodeling
guns is an interesting by-product of Mr. Win-
stead’s hunting. He keeps a well equipped armory
with guns to suit his needs. He has a Crossman
air rifle with which to shoot rats and sparrows, a
.22 caliber repeating rifle for squirrel hunting, two
\Vinchester pump guns of different gauge for quail
and duck hunting, and two guns for his main sport
of shooting predatory birds, one improved Hornet
rifle and a Lovell rifie. Besides these, all of which
are in perfect condition for use, he has a collection

of antiQuated gun and pistol models that would be
an asset for any museum.

Music

But Professor W instead does not depend upon
the golf links, the rivers and lakes, or the woods
for all his recreation, Many hours are made de-
lightful by niusic from his guitar or ’cello, by sing-
ing or by listening to the world’s best music on the
phonograph or radio. It was in an old—fashioned
Tennessee “singin’ skule” that he learned the

(Continued on page 247)

Houston Takes lnve

Like many another city, Houston.

Texas. went on a wartime schedule
in I942. How the Recreation De-

partment adjusted its program to
meet new needs is described here
in extracts from the annual report.

   

Walking the broomsticlc at one of those attairs- .
without-men which the ladies have learned to like ARTIME ACTIVITIES played an 1m-
' portant part in the program of the

Houston, Texas, Recreation De-
partment during 1942.

\Vith the cooperation of the Federation
of Women’s Clubs, the American Red
Cross, and individual volunteer instruct-
ors, war classes and production groups
were begun in all park clubhouses late in
1941. These groups, including the Red.
Cross first aid, home nursing, nutrition,
knitting and sewing, continued through-
out the year, with new ones being formed
as others finished. Consumer education
and canteen classes were added later in
the year, A by-product has been the old—
time neighborliness they have fostered.
Victory dinners and luncheons were a
practical application of the, principles
taught in the nutrition classes.

The large dances for servicemen held in
the city auditorium last year had to be
abandoned for several practical reasons
early in 1942. Civic clubs were encouraged
to continue their dances, picnics, and other
entertainments for servicemen. The Sun-
day afternoon open house at the Recrea-
tion Clubhouse was continued, and monthly
dances were held at the Playhouse. More
than forty service clubs, social clubs, and
other organizations have extended their
services through cooperating with the De-
partment and its War Activities Commit-
tee in these affairs.

 

The shutileboard courts are especially popular
with war workers and older men who are retired

A crowd of neighborhood "'gypsies" turns
out for an evening of fun around a huge
community pot of stew at Milroy Park

 

RECREATION

cry of a Year at War

The Department, as a participating member of
the Council of Social Agencies (except finan-
cially), has members of its staff serving on various
committees of the‘Council. One, officially repre-
senting OCD, studied recreation and service needs
of the youth of the city and held an institute for
volunteer leaders in November. The commercial
art classes being taught by one of these volunteers,
a professional artist, at the Recreation Clubhouse
and at Eastwood Park are notable among the
results of the institute.

Even though a major part of the recreation
facility building program was suspended, 1942 still
shows some noteworthy accomplishments. The
new building in Moody Park was dedicated and
put into operation in February, Floodlights were
installed and sidewalks, shuffleboard and horse—
shoe courts were built at Montie Beach. Kelly
Courts, the second Negro housing project, was
opened, and the Department supervised a recrea-
tion program staffed by W PA. Playground equip- ""959 HPUSl°n girls 3"? gelling "lgljl d0w”
ment was put innat Denver Harbor and Love +0 lhe 'mporlanl busmess of hav'ng fun
Parks, and barbecue pits were built at Stude,

Montie Beach, and Moody Parks. Plans made for
walks at Moody will be carried out early in 1943.
Other facilities would have been constructed dur-

ing the year expect for the wartime restriction on
building.

 

In spite of the fact that the athletic program was
curtailed in some respects because of wartime con—
ditions, an increase in participation was noted in a
number of activities such as svirimming, which ran
up the greatest number on record. The induction
of young men into the armed services paved the
way for the younger children to use the facilities
formerly reserved for the older players. The ath-
letic program was taken into the neighborhoods
where it served the juniors better. This was caused
partly by the temporary loss of the gymnasium in
the city auditorium, which'was turned over to the
Marine Guard in the summer.

(Continued on page 250)

The barbecue oven at the Playhouse pro-
vides a shelfered fire on a rainy after-

noon. Husbands in ’rhe Army. boy friends
in fhe Navy. buf +hey can still have fun!

 

JULY 1943 225

More Athletics Now, Not Less

By HOWARD G. RICHARDSON
Assistant Supervisor of Health and Physical Education
State of Virginia
RichmondI Virginia

5 we ENTER the New
Year, there seems
to be a wave of un-

certainty among some

p a r a mo 11 n t that short
trips to'easily accessible

schools be scheduled. It
is also suggested that a

athletic directors in high

school about this year’s athletic program. The
hysteria has entered the ranks of the boys who are
our high school athletes, and they are anxiously
asking the question, “Will we have athletic teams
this year or do we have to drop the various sports
for the duration ?” These boys should be told that
there is every reason to be—
lieve that the program will
not be cut, but rather en-
larged under a new set-up.
The new type programs call
for a greater number of boys
participating on competing
athletic school teams. This brings to mind several
questions which need further clarification.

Reprinted from

School Activities
February I943

“What can we do about the transportation prob—
lem ?” The situation of traveling is getting worse,
not better. W e did not have automobiles or buses
using gasoline for transportation in the early days,
but we did have athletic competition. Is there any
reason why we can’t have our athletic competition
now, but set up on a basis different from that of
our peacetime program? Our new program must
be geared on a wartime basis, and this means a
curtailment of trips, especially any long trips.

We must be determined not to use private cars
or special hired buses to transport teams. This
means that buses which transport school children
only, should not be given authority to transport
teams from the school which gives this bus com-
pany business. Furthermore, we can use the trains
and public buses which fol-
low regular public sched-
ules. Of course, it means
much inconvenience for those
in charge of transporting a
team, and it means longer
traveling time, but it can be
done. If buses which follow
regular routes are used, we
are not using any more tires
or gas than ordinarily would
be used. Furthermore, it is

226

"We need competition, and it we are inter-
ested in athletics and its promotion, we
will cohtinue to have more athletics and
not less. regardless of what restrictions
might be placed on our athletic directors.
‘Cancellation of schedules is not solving
any problems; it is accepting defeat. Do
not cancel schedules; carry on as the boys
in uniform do. Athletic-trained boys make
the best boys in uniform. Again—not less
but more athletics to help in the war
effort. That is one way to do our part."

series of games be ar-
ranged with each neighboring school; i.e., School
A plays School B a series of best two out of three
games. The most that either school travels is two
trips, and since the schools are near each other,
the amount of traveling is a minimum, and each
has potentially three games on its schedule, at least
two games.

We should have more and more, then again still
more athletic competition among representative
teams on the above suggested basis. Furthermore,
this competition should not be for public consump-
tion. It should be- arranged to suit students of
competing schools. Is there any reason why we
should not'have athletic competition after school
during the week, thus eliminating all night com—
petition and all week-end games. Perhaps this may
not satisfy “Joe Public” or many friends of the
boys on the teams, but it would satisfy our war
effort to conserve on transportation and to enlarge
upon healthy athletic competition. Perhaps many
of the evils of professionalism—playing for scholar—
ships, proselyting of athletes, etc.——wou1d disap-
pear. This in itself would justify the new proposal.

Perhaps you may be one who is saying that the
new suggestion means going back to an intramural
program and abandoning the varsity program that
we now have. In reality it means the promotion
of a larger intramural program and the organiza-
tion of a large extramural program, which is the
varsity program without the public glamour. Is
there anything wrong in promoting a program of
extramural athletics as an
outgrowth of intramurals
instead of a varsity pro—
gram? Furthermore, there
should be no fees charged to
see these games, and when
they should be played is up
to the schools participating.

The next problem one
might ask is "Can we get
equipment?” If you now

(Continued on page 240)
RECREATION

 

New York City Holds a Championship

EALIZING the importance
R of recreation for youth
during wartime, the De-
partment of Parks in New
York City conducted a Spring Sports Champion-
ship (luring the months of April, May and June.
A suitable incentive was necessary for the success
of such a tournament, but this problem was solved
by Park Commissioner Moses, who arranged with
the New York Community Trust for a donation of
$10,000 for prizes.

The city of New York was divided into districts
and eliminations were held first in the park play-
grounds, then in the districts. District winners
competed in the borough eliminations and finally
there were interborough competitions, Prizes were
awarded to district, borough and city-wide win-
ners. The city-wide prizes consisted of war bonds
to the winners of individual sports championships
and items of luggage to the members of the win-
ning teams. The runners-up received leather brief
cases and umbrellas.

The activities which were scheduled for this
Spring Sports Tournament included baseball, bas-
ketball, boxing, roller hockey, handball, horseshoe

JULY 1943

By JAMES V. MULHOLLAND

Director of Recreation
Department of Parks

pitching, paddle tennis, track,
ping-pong, punchball (girls),
softball, shuffleboard, and swim-
ming. The age classifications
in the various activities varied according to the
interest in the particular sports. All boys and
girls between twelve years and eighteen years were
eligible. Approximately 40,000 individual entries
were received, and 900 teams registered. As a
result of this large entry and the interest of spec-
tators, the attendance in the playgrounds increased
considerably during the past few months.

Publicity is extremely important for a Sports
Championship. In New York 'City we had attrac-
tive posters placed in all the cars of the subway
system, and entry blanks were mailed to schools,
churches, civic organizations, boys’ and girls" clubs,
and practically every organization dealing with
youth in New York City. All neighborhoods in
the city cooperated for the success of the cham-
pionships, Several radio announcements were
made and the Board of Education cooperated by
permitting radio broadcasts to many of the large
schools.

(Continued on page 244)

227

Spokane’s Civic Horse Trader

By FRANK J. TAYLOR

 

One man's fifty years of devotion to
bigger and better parks and playgrounds
have increased the park areas of
Spokane. Washingtonl |.000 per cent.

 

" UBREY W HITE’s the best civic horse trader in
A town,” a citizen of Spokane, Washington,

told me.. “By talking individuals and cor-
porations out of 1,500 parcels of land he’s given us
more park area per capita than any sizeable city in
America.”

Not so long ago the banks of the Spokane River,
which meanders through the very heart of Spo—
kane, were an eyesore of dumps, dilapidated build-
ings and squatters’ hovels. Today the city has
acquired over 80 per cent of that land and con—
verted it into beautifully landscaped parkways.
There is a public park or playground within five
minutes walk of every home. And promotion of
home gardening has won Spokane first prize as
the “City Beautiful” in national contests four years
running. For all these accomplishments energetic,
seventy—six-year—old Aubrey White is responsible.

\Vhite arrived in Spokane over half a century-
ago, a young down-easterner from Maine. On
days off from his bookstore job he explored every
woodland, dell, and river bend in and around Spo—
kane, He made a map of his wanderings and, for
fun, indicated the areas that he thought should be
parks in the Spokane of the future.

After acquiring a modest fortune in the East as
representative of Spokane mining and railroad in-
terests, White returned to Spokane to find the city
in the midst of a building boom. At a mass meet-
ing to organize a “I 50,000 Club” to boost the city’s
population to that figure, White, to everyone’s
amazement, opposed the idea.

“What we need to do,” he told the meeting, “is
to make Spokane a better place
to live. We ought to start on
our park system now, so that
later we won’t have appalling
expense tearing down blocks of
buildings to make parks and

228

The story of Aubrey White and his
efforts to make Spokane "the city
beautiful" is reprinted here by
permission of the publishers of
the National M anicipal Review.

playgrounds.” His enthusiasm was so contagious
that a “City Beautiful” club was formed. Before
long, the people voted a $900,000 bond issue for
parks.

His first move as chairman of the nonpartisan
park board of outstanding citizens was to have
landscape architects lay out a fifty-year park de-
velopment program. To his pleased surprise, 85
per cent of the sites recommended by the experts
appeared on the map of proposed parks which he
himself had prepared years before.

In seven years the $900,000 was all in parks
and the board’s work was done.

One Man Park Board

But not Aubrey White’s. With no official stand—
ing, he became Spokane’s one—man voluntary park
board, Systematically seeking owners of still more
land that he wanted, he dickered for cheap prices.
Whenever he found a bargain, White went to some
rich Spokane citizen. “If I had five hundred dol-
lars more I could get that land for a city park,” he
explained. Usually he got it. Before long, he had
developed a sure—fire list of donors: “my power-—
house,” he calls them.

Gifts of Land

A good many acres of the river land he wanted
were old railroad rights of way. After the boom
collapsed, it became fairly easy to persuade owners
that if they gave away land to the park system
they would save considerable in taxes and still
keep out competitors. This approach netted almost.
a thousand acres.

A variation in what White calls his “horse trad—
ing” is to get tip-offs from tax collectors when
property is to be sold for taxes. If it fits into his
park scheme, he tells the owner: “You’re going to
lose the land anyway. Why not sell it to us for
seventy—five dollars? We’ll assume the back taxes.”
If the owner accepts, \Vhite finds a donor, the
land is deeded to the park board, and the tax col—
lector cancels the back taxes, since the property
now belongs to the city without
the cost and nuisance of fore-
closure. By this method Aubrey
White has picked up over six
hundred parcels. -

(Continued on page 248)

RECREATION

Are They Fit for Combat?

.4 5". .q
u»
\ ~ .,
M ‘ '90-

. I... " mg 1
..>.‘ A ‘m A \
51' ".23;1 new .. ~ ,1 w ' WWW-“'-

_Muv «ago-“- .~_ 57...... -- 0

Photo by Martin I. Ford Courtesy Long Beach, Calif., Recreation Commission

By CLARK W. HETHERINGTON

assert that the boys in the army are “physi-
cally lit.” The President of the United
States on his recent trip was assured that this was
true. Medically it may be true, and “health fitness”
should be determined by the physicians in the ser-
vice. But fifty years of study and research on this
subject including a study of these problems during
World War I and now again the same problems in
the present Global W ar give the background and
basis for the following statements.
There should be a distinction made between
“medical” or “health fitness” and “physical lit-

OFFICERS AND LAY commentators frequently

JULY 1943

 

..
.
.,._. A «v .~ .
- ' - a».
 _‘ . We .- c
“h?    

$

- . - :3
“Min-co

Dr. Clark W. Hetherington wrote
this article a few days before his
death in December I942. For many
years he was known as a leader in
the field of physical education.

)’

ness. A man may be in perfect health
condition and yet totally unlit for violent
activity. Conversely he may be at the
highest point in “physical fitness” for
vigorous activity and then be laid low by
an infection or functional disturbance.
And neither of these is necessarily corre-
lated with “temperamental htness” for
combat service or with “morale.”

In the matter of “physical fitness” for
combat service, a great proportion of the
boys now in training are not “fit”; the
medical examination by the physician does
not determine “fitness.” Few doctors are
competent to determine it. Further, the
general impression among army officers
seems to be that if the boys can hike thirty
miles a day they are “fit.” They are not;
and hiking is not a complete test. Subject
the boys to a series of neuro-muscular
tests (tests that determine their muscular
strength and skill on one hand and endur—
ance on the other), and the great majority
of them are distinctly not “lit” for actual combat
service.

In those branches of the combat service where
the machine does not do the work, there is need
of supreme ~fitness. At any time these boys may
be required to undertake violent activity in face to
face combat with riiie or bayonet. At times they
may be subjected to long periods requiring supreme
effort. At present the best candidates for this type
of fitness are high school and especially college
athletes or other boys who have been continuously
active in athletics or in an occupation requiring
considerable daily muscular labor. In contrast the
great majority of American boys are pathetically
lacking in “physical fitness.” The test is the ability

( Continued on page 245)

 

229

Good Food in the Open

 

New Wrinkles in Camp Cookery

\Nhat the real expert can do

with a hole in the ground,
or a tripod of stones, exceeds be-
lief. But the innocent bystander
does not have to be a master of
culinary science to appreciate that even an expert,
with a makeshift fireplace, uncertain weather,
capricious fuel and only a brief quarter hour from
grub sack to sword swallower, is at a serious dis-
advantage as compared with even a second-rate
rival who works with tested fuel, under cover, in
a standard fire-box, with all the time in the world
to perfect the operation—all day, and again all
night, if the nature of the food makes long cooking
necessary.

The two pieces of cooking apparatus that give
these advantages are a camp stove and a tireless
cooker. The ones offered here call for nothing
more diflicult to find than an old 5-gallon square
oil can, a plug top gallon paint pail, a plug top
quart can and a cellular cardboard box, 12 x 12 x
14” or thereabouts.

Two more utensils, included for good measure,
are a combined broiler, toaster, fork, tongs, stove
hook and can lifter, made from two feet of heavy
wire; and a combined reflecting oven, frying pan,
corn popper and food container made from I-gal-
lon rectangular oil or varnish cans.

This homemade stove of ours has an outstand-
ing advantage over others. Under a generous, hop-
per-shaped fire-box with griddle-holes, ,is an ash
pit, to be filled with wet sand or mud, which
extinguishes Sparks, and makes the bottom cool
enough to rest on any wooden support. The stove
conserves fuel. Two quarts of store charcoal or
bits saved from the council lire will burn an hour.
It starts immediately, if a few wisps of excelsior,
long shavings, ravelled hemp
cord, crushed paper, cedar
bark or other tinder, prefer-
ably what has previously
been used to clean greasy
(not wet) dishes, is laid
over the cracks in the bot-
tom of the fire box, and the
charcoal piled on top. Be

CAMP COOKERY is a noble art.

230

By FRANK M. RICH

"We here offer a new kit for producing
good food in the open." the author an-
nounces. . . . "The appliances. we are happy
to say. need not cost anything. even the
price of Marshall's cigar. They can be made
by anyone—campers. Scouts. tishermen.
or even youngsters in the backyard—out
of discarded materials available anywhere
—cans. pasteboard boxes. and wire."

sure not to crowd the cracks and
so cut off the draft.

Mr. Rich's article has been re-
printed trom the January I943
issue of Hunting and Fishing.

Putty Knife Strategy

The triangles of tin, rolled to
form the rims of the griddle holes,
and the pieces bent inward to make the bottom of
the fire box can be cut with an ordinary can opener,
of course, but it is better strategy to use a putty
knife or other thin blade, held obliquely and tapped
with a billet of wood, The knife cuts straight, and
turns sharp edges in, protecting the maker from
jagged cuts and scratches. However, tin is a
treacherous thing to work with, and a pair of stout
gloves is the better part of valor. In cutting the
various lines, it is better to leave the flaps attached
at the corners as long as possible; then as the flaps
are cut loose, dull the edges by scraping or tiling.
Nail holes for the wire links that hold the bottom
of\ the tire box would better be made before the tin
is cut. A shortened clothes pin makes a good tool
to roll up the tin around the griddles holes, and to
bend the narrow flaps around the turned edges of
pans.

To make the frying pans, cut rectangular gallon
cans on a center line across the ends and along one
side. Saw or tile notches in the seams M,” from
this line, and the finished edge around three sides
of each half pan will be easy to turn down. A
half~inch strip connects the two pans and forms a
support for the foot of lath which serves as a re-
movable handle.

The tireless cooker consists of a gallon pail full
of boiling hot food, kept so by a covering of two
or three large paper bags, one inside the other, and
outside this a wall of crushed paper or other heat~
insulating material at least 3” thick, packed rather
firmly inside a cellular pasteboard carton. To fit
neatly, the handle of the pail
needs to be bent at an angle
of 90°, about an inch from
the ends.

To permit the air to enter
when the steam condenses,
and prevent warping caused
by atmOSpheric pressure, a
small hole should be punched

RECREATION

PasTe la ocu'd

Cat-To n

Grlcwcs ‘Fc-w

JULY 1943

NEPV WRINKLES IN CAMP COOKERY

231

 

 

Courtesy Hunting and Fishing

232 NEW WRINKLES IN CAMP COOKERY

in the cover of the can and filled with a bit of cloth.

Setting Up the Cooker

To set up the cooker, fill the 12 x 12 x 14”
carton 3” deep with crushed newspapers. Put the
empty pail into the bags; set in the middle of the
carton and pack insulation around to the level of
the top of the can. Close the mouth of the bags
with a twist, and lay a large opened sheet or two
of wrapping paper on top of the can, and fold the
corners to make what is going to be a tight-fitting
removable cushion of insulating material to fill the
empty space in the top of the box. Fill the cushion
and fold the remaining. wrapping paper neatly over
the top and seal with a few strips of gummed kraft
paper.

Remove the cushion. Open the bag. Push the
' pail in all directions to loosen it, so that it can be
slipped out and in without disturbing bags or in—
sulation. The cooker is now ready for service.

A quart can or jar is convenient to put inside
the gallon, either to cook other foods, baked meats
or beverages, separate from the main dish, or to
fill up the space with water needed for long heat-
ing. If other cans are not available, old paint cans
can always be made serviceable by soaking in lye
solution. Ordinary 12 ounce baking powder boxes
are convenient for biscuits and brown bread. Here
again, a pinhole in the cover is a good precaution.
Gas from baking powder, if not allowed to escape,
has been known to enliven the occasion with a
surprise explosion.

A safe can lifter can be made from a 2’ strip of
heavy wire bent like tongs, with a loose fitting
ring between two handles. For convenience in
reaching into the kettle the ring should be at a
45° angle to the handles. Bend the ends of the
handles in the opposite direction, at an angle of
90°, to serve as stove hook, or toasting fork. These
tongs, laid over the griddle hole, will support
small cans over the fire. When it is necessary to
pour liquids out of the frying pans, the wire
handles can be placed along the stick, hook down—
ward over the near edge of the pan, and the “pan
cannot fall.

Dinner for Four

Now for a game or fish
dinner for a party of four
which will go down in his-
tory! Start with the fire used
for the preceding meal. If you
have plenty of bread, just put
on a quart of water in the

the way.

"It is fun to hike, to camp. to feast one's
eyes on the rolling green hills or the
sparkling 'water; but somewhere along
part of the day's enioyment
will center itself around the next meal
that is to be cooked and eaten to satisfy
the appetites sharpened by the long
trail!"—Trail Cookery for Girl Scouts.

little kettle and forget what we say about muffins.
Put on another quart in the big kettle. If you are
going to tackle the muffins, a pint in each kettle
instead of a quart, will do. Put the reflecting ovens
in place in the ash-pit openings on each side of the
fire box. Cut the fowl, rabbit or other meat or
fish into individual portions and put into the ovens
close to the fire to sear over and carmelize for a
while. Now peel 4 four-ounce potatoes and an
equal amount of onions, carrots or other vegetable
and let them also roast a while in the reflecting ‘
oven.

While turning the meat and vegetables occa-
sionally, you stir up the muffins. Mix four level
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a half teaspoonful
of salt, a tablespoonful of butter or other fat and a
couple of tablespoonfuls of milk powder, if you
have it, with 1/3 cupful of water. Grease the inside
of two 12-ounce baking powder boxes. The dough
you have mixedwill fill them about 2/ 3- full, Put
on the covers and set them on the ash pit at the
ends of the firebox to bake a while, turning them
over and around frequently.

Have a quart of water boiling in the pail and
put in the meat or fish. If fish, wrap the individual
portions in kraft or parchment paper and put all
into a cheese-cloth bag, or else make up your mind
to have chowder. Boil 10 to 30 minutes, depend-
ing on the toughness of the meat, then set into the
cooker for five minutes to heat up the insulation.
Take the kettle out, being careful to replace the
cushion. Add the vegetables and a teaspoonful of
salt. Put the biscuit cans on top, covers up, and
boil again five minutes. Replace all in the cooker
and tie up tightly, to cook by its own heat five or
six hours.

At the next mealtime start a new fire. Put the
reflecting ovens in place and a frying pan with a
little bacon or other fat on the griddle. No wait-
ing! Dinner starts immediately. Serve the warm
broth. Let the potatoes and vegetables brown a
little in the reflecting ovens, while the meat does
the same in the frying pan. Slice the muffins in
two and let each person toast the outside of one
for himself. The time saved on this fneal by hav-
ing the food already cooked
is ample to prepare the next
one the same way.

So far, nothing has been
said about dessert, but if you
have the makings, we can
treat the party to ice cream

( C ontinued on page 249)

RECREATION

'lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's“ Column of Nature-Grams

GRI C ULTURE. A good book for city boys

who are volunteering for work on the farm

this summer is “Getting Acquainted with Agricul-

ture,” by George P. Deyoe and Fred T. Ullrich.

Interstate Printers and Publishers, Danville, Il-
linois, 1941. 731 pages, Ill. 402. $2.50.

Animal of the l/Veelc. Dr. Thomas S. Hall, Uni-
versity of Chicago, while at Lawrenceville School,
New Jersey, had groups of students responsible
for an “Animal of the Week.” The animal was
alive in proper habitat, accompanied by photo-
graphs, biography, charts, and other accessories.
This is a capital idea for any playground. A hen,
pigeon, calf, mouse, rabbit, frog, turtle, snake, or
crow offer excellent possibilities.

Bees. For literature on information about ob-
servation hives write Root Bee Farm, Medina,
Ohio, or General Biological Supply House, 761
East 69th Place, Chicago, III. For needed cane
sugar solution for starting new colonies see your
local ration board. For patriotism, this is the time
to plan a Bee Club.

Chicago Recreation Commission plans to bring
camping to the city. An all-day program for chil-
dren is de31red by wartime working parents, Mobi-
lizing civilian defense neighborhood groups on a
similar pattern is also a goal. Marjorie Cushman,
a Massachusetts State College graduate, class of
’43, has been selected to face the challenging situ—
ation. Her experience as a leader at Life Camps
was an excellent training for this kind of creative
pioneering.

Conservation. “This Land We Defend,” by
Hugh H. Bennett and VVillian C. Pryor. Long-
mans, Green and Company, New York. 107 pages.

$1.50.

,Conservation Workshop, “a
week of adventure, discovery
and preparation for one of the
most important tasks ever
asked of teachers: training of
today’s children to handle
with wisdom and vision the
conservation problems of to-
morrow,” sponsored by the

lULY 1943

Cap'n Bill maltes this timely suggestion:
"Summer is here. Are you teaching ap-
preciation of your local parks in your na-
ture groups? Parlts may be morale build-
ers. They are certainly excellent outdoor
nature laboratories. Vacation near home
may not be so bad it we do such enioy-
able things as picniclting in the park.
or rediscovering the old swimminl hole.
or even getting on our feet and hiking!"

R. 1. Wildlife Federation carried 30 hours of grad-
uate credit at the R. I.College of Education, Provi-
dence. An all day down Narragansett Bay on an
Oyster Boat and an Insect Zoo day were two of
the alluring titles.

Farm Girl. “I’m proud that I’m a farm girl, I
know what it is to read by a kerosene lamp and
then by an electric light, to cross the meadow
through all the grades of softness between May
and September. We love our natural surround-
ings and count them beautiful; we love our occu-
pations in house and barn, garden and orchard but
no fruit or grains, or vegetable, can equal the
spiritual crops that have Sprung up and come to
fruition scarcely noticed, like the wild cherries in
the hedgerows.”—From remarks written by Jean
Shippey, 19, when addressing the Kiwanis Club.

Farm Safety. Many folks will join the Victory
Land Corps this summer. Farm safety has be-
come an_ important factor. To stay able-bodied
read some of the free pamphlets sent by the fol-
lowing: “Home and Farm Accident Prevention,”
64 pp. and “Preventing Accidents,” 29 pp. Ameri-
can National Red Cross, Washington. “Safety on
the Farm,” Florida Department of Agriculture,
Tallahassee. Minnesota Safety Council, 227 St.
Paul Hotel, St. Paul, Minn. University of Mary-
land, Agriculture Extension Service, College Park,
Maryland.

Insect 'Sabotears. If contemplating a hobby
club in land production better fortify the front line
furrow. A useful instrument at the Spotting sta-
tion, besides a spray gun, is an “F.B.I.” detective
service, such as “Garden Pests Collection,” which
includes 40 species of insects, harmful to the vege-
table and flower garden. In
glass-topped museum case.
$17.50. Write General Biol.
Supply House about other
“Spotting” services.

Plastics for war will later
become useful for “enjoy-
ment.” Lucite is better than

. glass for a bomber. Rubber-

(Continued on page 246) -
233

Democracy and Recreation

HE DEMOCRATIC
Tphilosophy of gov-
ernment is being
defended on the battle-
front but the democra-
tic ideal of life will
never be attained until it penetrates every phase of
daily life. Educational and recreational institutions
should evaluate their programs and methods in the
light of those principles which are the foundation
of our “way of life.” Too often, these organiza-
tions give mere lip service to the terms “democ-
racy,” “freedom,” and “liberty,” while in actual
practice they promote unthinking conformity,
obedience, and submission to their authority.
Recreation agencies can be excellent training
grounds for practical experience in democracy, if
leaders are trained in progressive education tech-
niques, and if participants are given the oppor-
tunity to learn by doing. This process divides au—
thority among the many, rather than resting it
upon the shoulders of one. Through democratic
organization of play areas, social centers, and other
community groups, the citizens can express their
preferences and develop their own leisure-time ac-
tivities. Superintendents of recreation programs
can thus be guided by the will of the public they

aim to serve.

A Contrast

Some skilled leaders have contacts in the local
communities which enable them to evolve pro-
grams of recreation activities that are truly “of
the people, by the people, and for the people.”
There are, however, many whose thinking is con-
fused. Their reasoning seems to be that because
they are paid recreation leaders they should do all
the work and give all the orders. The public has
no share in the responsibilities of planning, pre-
paration, or evaluation of their activities.

I have seen both types of leadership in action
and the difference in attitude
between the two groups of
participants is sufficient jus-
tification for extending the
practice of democratic tech-
nique.

In the first instance, a

234

By R. J. CAULK

A challenge to recreation leaders to
teach democracy bythe "doing" method

Mr.Caull(, who is Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation in Steubenvillel Ohio.
won first prize with this article in the
Joseph Lee Memorial Contest for Rec-
reation Literature, sponsored by the So-
ciety of Recreation Workers of America.

group of civic minded
wEomen sponsored
weekly dances in a
town where chaperon-
ed recreation was badly
needed to combat the
influences of the local “joints.” The dances were
very p0pular and the boys and girls flocked to the
municipal clubhouse. The sponsors did a good
job of maintaining a pleasant, wholesome atmos-.
phere. They decorated the hall before each dance
and cleaned up afterwards. Periodically, they
bought new records, sometimes guided in their
choice by the requests of the young people. At the
end of each season they spent the proceeds on
equipment and furnishings for the clubhouse. In
short, the committee shouldered all the respon-
sibility While the young pe0ple lightheartedly came
and danced and went.

The dances served only the immediate purpose
for which they had been organized: namely, to
provide a wholesome atmOSphere for social recrea-
tion. The young people could have derived many
educational values if they shared the reSponsibility
of planning, advertising, handling their own dis-
cipline problems, collecting the fees, and designat-
ing the expenditures:

Skillful Leadership

Diametrically opposed to this type of leadership
is the case of the young man who skillfully led a
group of young folks to organize, advertise, and
run dances for themselves and their friends. One
of the objectives of these affairs was to raise funds
for necessary improvements at their social center.
Over a period of three years they raised increas-
ing amounts of money: twelve hundred dollars the
first year, two thousand, the third. But most signifi-
cant was the fact that increasing numbers of boys
and girls helped in the Sponsorship of the dances.

They formed a democratic council and started a
newspaper. Through their
governing body they helped
formulate the policies of the
community center, and
through their paper gave voice
to their opinions on local
issues. In order to spend the

RECREATION

DEMOCRACY AND RECREATION 235

 .-. - .q. .. . ,
,

P,_ 3.; I _—,.p - 

proceeds of the dances 5‘
wisely they studied the I'L'
budget and program of the '
whole agency, consulted
other activity groups, and
called upon the staff for
guidance, In this way,
what had started out as a
simple activity became a
broad experience in ex—
ploratory learning which is
one of the keystones of
democratic life.

Constructive, purposeful
methods can be applied to
all aspects of recreation. In
the public held, increasing
recognition has been given
to the importance of lead-
ership trained in educative
techniques—but there is
still much to be desired.
Many playground leaders
still regard their chief functions to be distributing
play materials and blowing a shrill whistle blast
when a child violates some minor regulation. Main—
tenance of order and discipline is their major ob—
jective. Too often the playground leader plays a
very minor role in the life of the community. He
knows little about the neighborhood and takes no
trouble to learn more.

Democratic functioning, on the other hand, ne-
cessitates a feeling of “belonging.” The playground
leader should be accepted by the citizens and
should make every effort to deve10p friendly rela—
tionships with all the local social and educational
agencies as well as with key people in the com-
, munity. The playground could be made the center
of neighborhood activities for every age group.
The function of the leaders should be to help un—
organized individuals become members of teams,
special interest groups, or clubs.

The technique of leadership can be compared to
the steps in gardening: preparing the ground,
planting the seed, watching it take root, weeding
out undesirable growths, and helping desirable
branches to develop. Just as in planting, too much
watering may drown the seedling, so in leadership
it is necessary to give just enough but not too
much nourishment to the group.

In other words, the leader should allow the
group to assume as much responsibility as it can
take while he remains unobtrusively in the back—

‘T— g. .—

lULY 1943

 

Photo from Reading, Pa.

"People who have special skills are often
happy to share their knowledge with others."

ground ready to lend a helping hand when needed.
Freedom of choice, free discussion, and self-criti—
cism should be encouraged by the leader. And
when he does offer suggestions they should not be
stated in the form of commands but should be
phrased “W hat do you think of this?” and “Let’s
try that,” so that the spirit of cooperation and
democratic relationship is not lost.

A New Interest

One skilled playground leader stimulated her
group to carry out a highly educational project.
Out of an interest in Scandinavian folk dancing
there arose a desire to know more about these
countries and particularly about their cooperatives.
The leader challenged the youngsters (average
age 11 years) to organize one of their own. Under
her guidance, they built up a candy store coopera—
tive for the playground. They sold shares, bought
supplies, painted billboards, kept records, took
turns selling, and at the end of a successful sum—
mer distributed dividends and retained a first hand
knowledge of cooperative management. Through—
out the ten weeks the children sustained a highly
enthusiastic interest in this project. In this true-
to-life situation the group assumed far more re—

(Continued on page 250)

Canoes! Why Blame Them When They Upset?

HE CANOE followed
Tthe solid log and the

raft as man’s first
means of traveling the
waterways. Its origin
dates back to the dawn of
civilization. No doubt
earliest man found floating on the water a rotted
log, hollowed in the center by the ravages of
disease, and when he discovered that it would hold
him and still remain buoyant, the canoe was born.
Later, hollowed out by crude implements of man-
kind the canoe has, through all the ages, remained
as the basic feature of boat construction.

Ancient France no doubt gave the canoe its
name. In French “canot” (with its silent “t”)
means a hollowed log. The Anglo-Saxons, accept—
ing the word, dropped the “t” and substituted
an “e.”

The canoe has played an amazing part in the
discovery of remote places of earth and, more than
any other factor, enabled the extensive exploration
of the Mississippi River region by the French and
Spaniards hundreds of years ago. It still serves as
a means of navigation in isolated parts of the
United States, Canada, Alaska, and other countries,

I'

The Navy takes over and demonstrates
the "preferred" method of canoeing

 

Photo by Mort Walton, Detroit Free Press
Courtesy Detroit Department of Park: and Recreation

236

By JAMES H. HOCKING

If you have learned to swim and to
keep cool in emergencies' you have
mastered the art of safe canoeing

but now is used mainly
as a medium of sport in
settled communities.

Canoe Safety

Canoe accidents are not
the fault of the canoe; it
floats right side up, or, if upset, it remains on top
of the water; it rises to waves like a cork; it is not
tempermental like a high strung horse, nor is it
endowed with tremendous power and complicated
controls like an automobile. Accidents in every
instance are due to the things that people do in
canoes. Therefore, the most important thing that
you can remember as the first rule for common
safety is to “Keep Cool" when you go out in a
canoe.

As you value your life do not enter a canoe until
you are able to swim; a half-dozen strokes will
save you in many situations. The ability to help
your neighbor will come with your further im-
provement; keep practicing until you can really
swim a hundred yards, then when that time comes
the enjoyment of your canoe will increase a hun—

' dred fold.

Every canoeist should realize that sometime or
other he is going to be upset, whether he is a so-
called “expert” or not; in fact, it is more likely to
occur to the average expert be-
cause of over-confidence and will-
ingness to take a chance. The best
thing to do, therefore, is to get
acquainted deliberately with up—
set conditions.

In case of an upset, the first
thing to do is to stick to the canoe.
Season after season one reads of
the upsets where the crack swim-—
mer started for shore for help and
went down half way, whereas the
other fellow was saved even
though he couldn’t swim a stroke.
Any canoe, whether of the ordi-
nary canvas-covered type or the
Canadian wooden type, has enough
wood in its construction to sup—
port its crew even though fillled
with water. Remember that the

RECREATION

CANOES! WHY BLAME THEM WHEN THEY UPSET? 237

canoe won’t sink. I am referring now to the
regular sixteen, seventeen or eighteen foot cruising
canoe, whether it is bottom up, or right side up
and filled with ’water.

You’ll find it difficult to cling to the bottom,
especially if you are alone. Therefore, roll the

canoe over until it is right side up, but do it easily, I

for when filled it is like a log and has a tendency
to continue to roll. When it is right side up, slide
into it, sit on the bottom and extend your arms
on the surface of the water to steady yourself;
you’ll float in this position with your head and
shoulders pretty well out of water and you can
hand-paddle comfortably for quite a distance.

If there are several of you to get in the canoe,
it is important to remember to slide in like an eel
and not try to lift Yourself over the gunwales,
otherwise you’ll sink the canoe under the fellow
' who is already in. To prove this, lift both arms
out of the water or try standing up, and you will
see how quickly the canoe sinks from under you.
However, it will come right up to the surface
again, and with more care you can all climb in and
go hand-paddling back to the club house.

Practice in this will enable you to reach shore
safely from moderate distances, whether you are a
good swimmer or not, and if you are too far out it
will at least enable you to remain afloat until you
are picked up.

Get into your bathing suit and take the canoe
out a little way from the shore. Don’t take a
paddle. Squat down on the bottom and paddle
with your hands, first one side and then the other.
You’ll be surprised at the speed you can get up
and, as a result, the next time you happen to let
a paddle slip from your hands you’ll calmly hand-
paddle around to pick it up without giving the
matter a second thought. However, you cannot
hand-paddle a long distance, nor against a wind
or a tide.

When you get out away from the float, sit flat
on the bottom of the canoe, exactly amidships,
then rock it hard and try to ship water. The
chances are you won’t be very successful. Your
weight is so low that the canoe is extremely stable.
Remember this any time you are caught out in a
heavy blow and a rough sea. Also remember, in
loading ’a canoe either with duffel or passengers,
to keep all the weight as low and as nearly amid-
ships as possible, and to keep the ends of the canoe
light so that they will rise readily to a heavy sea
instead of ploughing through it.

JULY 1943

Sit as far as possible to one side still on the
bottom. Try rocking it in this position and note
the continued steadiness and your complete con-
trol of the rocking motion. Now stand up and try
the same stunt. If you are experienced you can do
it, but if not, 'over you go. In either case there will
be no doubt in your mind as to which position was
the steadiest and most trustworthy.

As you upset from the standing position another
thing will impress you: the canoe goes over com-
paratively slowly. In fact, it generally ships about
half full of water and then settles slowly the. rest
of the way. Contrary to usual belief, the ordinary
cruising canoe does not flip you out. Therefore
you have no excuse for not being able to reach the
canoe even though you can swim only a few
strokes.

Even with the canoe half full of water, keep
your weight on the bottom. That will keep it from
turning turtle and you can get rid of a great deal
of water by rocking from side to side. You should
always have some sort of a vessel for “bailing‘
out”; fasten it so it cannot wash away. When you
are overboard alongside of the canoe, you will be
astonished at the amount of water that can be
emptied by “rocking the boat.” It will wash from

'side to side and roll overboard, and enough will

be lost to restore the stability of the canoe and
enable you, by using your feet in kicking, to re—
gain a landing.

Another very important subject to keep in mind
is “wind conditions.” For example, by moving to
one end of the canoe, obviously the other, light-
ened end will blow around with the wind and
point down—wind like the tail of a weather vane.
Hence, in paddling against a strong wind, it is
essential to sit at least in the middle of the canoe,
if not slightly forward of the middle, to keep the
forward end down in the water so it will not be
blown around by the wind toward the direction
from which you are trying to paddle.

“Canoeing. What romance, sport and adventure
the word calls forth. Trip’s on lakes and rivers,
camping out, happy companionship, glorious sunlit
days, dreamy moonlight nights. Not in any sport
can one find such an attractive activity, so wide a
field, or so splendid a physical developer as canoe-
ing—swimming excepted. And learning how to
swim is the first lesson for a paddler. So the two
together, swimming and canoeing, make for an
ideal summer.”——Ruth W kite Little.

WORLD

THE Department of
Recreation of Evans-
ton, Illinois, is begin-
ning its seventh year
of “shut-in” programs for the elderly, friend-
less, or physically handicapped. Services for
these people include individual craft instruc—
tion, yearly sales of craft products, frequent
telephone calls and visits by the leader, a
monthly magazine, monthly parties endorsed
and paid for by clubs and organizations, and
the sending of birthday and seasonal cards.

Fun for
Shut-Ins

THE Streamliners, an
organization of 1,500
Detroit women inter-
ested in physical fit-
ness, is going to have its chance to put the
lessons learned during the winter to good use
this summer.

Each member will be requested to serve as a
part-time assistant to playground leaders dur-
ing the summer, according to John  Consi-
dine, general superintendent of the Depart—
ment of Parks and Recreation. Men in the
neighborhoods of the 130 playgrounds
maintained by the city will also be re-
cruited.

Practice for
Streamliners

 

 

A Church Center for

Young and 01d center organized

by the Early
Chapel Christian
Church of Madison County, Iowa, pro-
vides both a place where men and women
can talk over their mutual problems and
a recreation center for young people
after arduous days fighting the battle of
food production in the fields. In work-
ing out the program, Early Chapel
leaders divided the people into four
groups: boys and girls up to 12 years;
young people from 12 to 18; out—of-
school youths and young married folks;
and older members of the congregation.

 

 

Omaha’s Machine :I:isr:e:tf tiles:
Shop q p u‘

in the recreation
activities of
Omaha, Nebraska, has been made in
a machine shop operated by the Rec—

238

‘E, 5-) unwed!“  “
sun-:56? . ~

THE recreation "1‘53

AT PLAY

reation Department for men and boys. Value
of the equipment thus turned out is estimated
at more than $20,000. In the making of these
articles the w0rkers were given an oppor—
tunity to learn skills of various kinds.

A COMMUNITY library,
community festivals,
parties, and many other
civic activities spon-
sored and planned through the Community
Council of Alexandria, Ohio, have generated
such spirit that several rural neighborhoods
have started monthly parties, combining games
and dancing with discussions of economics and
politics. The young people have found that it is
more fun to organize athletic teams, dances,
and “bull sessions” in their own community
than to go off to a movie in the city.

“Bull Sessions” for
Young People

UNDER this name a
group of hikers in
\Vilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania, enjoys Saturday
afternoon or Sunday walks. The club is one of
the activities of the \Vyoming Valley Play-

The Susquehanna
Trailors

  

'JL’bEhlLi: ' 3
DF.‘NuutN‘Z I.”

a. -.
1‘ ....n-:  ,1.

From San Francisco Call Bulletin

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLA Y , 239

ground and Recreation Association. Social
activities are a feature of the program and
members of the group have attended movies
together, gone on overnight hikes, and enjoyed
other activities. On one occasion the club met
the “Back—to-Nature—Club,” a small group in
York, Pennsylvania, and hiked with them.

Putting Them on Record——A few years ago
the candidates for public office in Atlanta,
Georgia, previous to election were faced with
a. questionnaire made up and distributed by
the Atlanta League of Women Voters.

One of the seven questions asked the candi—
dates for City Council was: “Adequate play-
grounds under trained supervision, especially
in congested areas, are badly needed in
Atlanta. \K'ill you work for increased appro—
priations to provide for a better program of
trained supervision for playgrounds and other
recreation activities?”

In the case of Board of Education candidates
the question was asked: “Will you work to
make secure buildings and playgrounds avail—
able for recreation centers for children and
adults if trained supervisors are provided?”

The OWI Reports on a Survey — One of
the eight recommendations made by the thce
of War Information for reducing absenteeism
in war plants is to help workers adjust them-
selves to new jobs and communities by better
ing in-plant training, and providing adequate
housing, transportation, and recreation. The
OWI recommendations were based on a sur—
vey of 18 war plants and 100 workers in each
plant.

Student-Community Projects — Students of
Denison University, Granville, Ohio, have been
learning the meaning of community service
during the past few months by helping with
local needs. The students opened a nursery in
a local church, set up a Vitamin Bank in which
they deposited hundreds of cans of fruit, soup,
and vegetables to be withdrawn throughout
the year as needs arose, and took over classes
in cooking, sewing, crafts, dramatics, and or-
ganized games for underprivileged children.

Rod and Reel Fans in Evanston — The

North Shore Rod and Reel Club of Evanston,
Illinois, offers local anglers a varied program

JULY 1943

throughout the year—tournament bait and fly
casting, instruction in bait and fly casting,
interclub tournaments, a class in fly tieing,
fishing and outdoor movies, talks and demon—
strations by professional experts, conservation
projects, group fishing trips, rod building, and
social meetings.

The Evanston Department of Recreation,
which helped organize the club three years ago,
furnishes facilities through the Board of Edu—
cation and handles the secretarial work which
includes a monthly bulletin, posters, notices of
meetings, and publicity. An employee of the
department serves as secretary for the group.

Program for Institutions —— Attendance at
the institutional recreation periods conducted
by the city recreation department of Reading,
Pennsylvania, during April, under the sponsor—
ship of the Junior League was 1,710. Featured
during the April program in the institution
was the presentation of Easter plays and the
making of toys for that holiday.

Last Summer in Wilkes-Barre — The theme
of the playground season in Wilkes-Barre,
Pennsylvania, last summer was “The Good
Neighbor.” The playgrounds made maps and
flags of the Pan-American countries, sang their
songs, and learned a number of their folk
dances. The storytelling program included
Indian tales, stories of the Amazon, and tradi-
tions of South American countries. An inter-
esting event was a Pan—American track and
field meet in which 350 children from the
various playgrounds participated.

The season’s activities culminated in a
pageant. Eight hundred children took part in
the dances and drills, and about 2,000 marched
in the parade. The Wilkes-Barre Railway Cor-
poration furnished free transportation for all
costumed children, and the Park Department
helped with the hauling of floats.

Sacramento Holds an Easter Hunt -— In
spite of the war the children of Sacramento,
California, were not deprived this year of their
annual Easter egg hunt. After careful con—
sideration the Sacramento Recreation Depart-
ment decided that the usual Easter program
should be carried on in a modified form. As
the usual program would have required from
18,000 to 20,000 eggs, so vital in feeding

240 ' RECREATION IN ARMY AND NAVY HOSPITALS

civilians and servicemen, it was decided to use
a substitute in carrying out the hunt. Instead
of eggs, paper discs in various colors cut to the
size of eggs were scattered about the specified
areas, and hundreds of children ran to collect
the discs as they fell to the ground.

Recreation in Army and Navy Hospitals

(Continued from page 205)

the full reSponsibility for those in the station
hospitals.

These elements of the pr0gram are common to
most hOSpitals although the organization and de-
velopment differ according to the patient group
and the type of hospital. Each program also has
specialized projects. In a few places photography
has become an all engrossing interest for many
patients. At one hospital it resulted from an ex-
hibition of traveling photographic shows from
clubs in the area. The patients in that- hospital are
now collecting their own exhibit which will be-
come part of this circuit. Very often a desire to
record events in picture form has stimulated this
activity. Nature study, outdoor picnics, patient
orchestras, and bands have grown from the inter-
est of groups in these activities.

The “Gray Ladies,” volunteer members of the
Red Cross Hospital and Recreation Corps, are
women who have taken a special course of orien-
tation in the hospital in which they serve. Many
of them give service in the recreation program
under the_direction of the professional staff. For
a well-integrated program the staff and volunteers
should complement each other. The staff must
have a clear understanding of the objectives of the
program and so interpret them to the volunteers
that they will be aware of potentialities.

Limitations are necessarily inherent in dealing
with patients under a military regime and in a
hospital environment. However, there are in-
numerable opportunities within those limitations
for making contributions to the well-being of the
patient. The Gray Lady takes the place of per-
sonal contacts in the home community. Here is
the “someone” to chat with. She will write and
post the letter that must go in the next mail; she’ll
give keen competition in a game of gin rummy or
chess, or just a smile when that seems the best
thing to give. She will fit into other phases of the
volunteer program where her special skill can
make a contribution.

A House-to-House Recreation-

Interest Survey
(Continued from page 219)

visiting and entertaining, bowling, loaf-ing, horse-
back riding, concerts, gardening (fiowers), bridge,
tennis, Red Cross Work, golf, musical production,
playing the victrola, religious training, billiards,
badminton, horseshoe pitching, croquet, letter writ-
ing, ping-pong, backyard games, carpentry, play-
ing musical instruments, lodge and clubs, football,
choral groups, Camera Club, shooting, lifesaving,

and handball.

TABLE 7

The First Ten C oegicients of Interest in Activities for the
LVinter and Summer Seasons, as Expressed by Both

M en and Women

Radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24.3%

Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.0

Movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..12.3

Card parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.6

Conversation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9.0

Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.4

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7.2

Visiting and entertaining  . . . . . . . . .. 5.3

Bridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5.2

Red Cross work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.8 ‘

Other activities, in the order of their interest,
are: listening to the victrola, religious training,
playing musical instruments, and choral singing.

More Athletics Now, Not Less

( C ontinued from page 226)

have equipment, it is vitally necessary in the light
of war needs to take the best possible care of 'it.
Do not, for instance, play football in the rain and
mud just for the sake of playing, but postpone the
game until favorable weather conditions develop.
Playing in the rain does not often decide the best
team, as many breaks enter into a game played
under these conditions. Next, the inclement
weather takes much life out of equipment. It also
exposes players and spectators alike to probable
sickness. Boys like to play in the rain, but it is
not wise for them to do so anymore than it is for
a coach to take other chances on the safety of the
boy. Surely a coach would not think of sending a
boy into a‘football game without shoulder pads or
thigh guards. Why then take chances with the
boy’s health, also in ruining equipment? Remem-
ber saving on supplies is helping to win the war.
Some of you may say, “But what about us who
do not have equipment? Can we get it ?” There

RECREATION

’ THE MAYOR TAKES A HAND IN RECREATION 241

will be enough for us all, if some of us do not fill
our stockrooms with equipment to be used in the
future. Again we need to redirect our thinking
and realize that each season our teams cannot run
out to play with new equipment as we have done
in the past. In the interest of promoting the war,
the emphasis should be on teams participating and
not on how good they look in new uniforms.
Neither is it important how far they travel to play,
but how often they can compete against one an-

other.

The Mayor Takes a Hand in Recreation

(Continued from page 217)
ment and public works facilities for recreation pur-

poses, especially in cooperation with neighborhood
committees and designed to open some such facili-
ties on a round—the-clock basis for defense work-
ers ; construction of further city and county library
facilities; the assignment of a liaison officer by the
armed forces to coordinate church, home, and ser-
vicemen’s spiritual and social activities; permis—
sion of the Red Cross to allow the local welfare
service office to publish a servicemen’s paper car-
rying recreational and other information to all
branches of the armed forces stationed in the area;
surveys of city-owned property for use of boys
clubs, playgrounds, etc.

These and other activities are already in the
process of organization. Their active functioning
will be an accomplished fact by the time you are
reading this.

And the End Is Not Yet

In this brief outline of Buffalo’s experience in
wartime recreation there has been but one purpose
——to help other communities that may be faced
with similar problems. Buffalo’s problems are by
no means solved, but it is felt that the Mayor’s
Conference is a decided step in the right direction
and one that can be duplicated anywhere.

The Conference’s first two purposes have been
accomplished: The facts of Buffalo’s recreational
needs and resources have been gathered; expan-
sion where needed has certainly been stimulated
and is being coordinated. The means for the dis-
semination of information about facilities and the
expansion of facilities have been devised, but a
long hard road still lies ahead. Since the citizens
of Buffalo have set their shoulders to the wheel
we are sure of the outcome. A community—and
the world—move forward by cooperation.

Buffalo is moving forward!

JULY 1943

   

The Most Valuable Physical
Asset and Best Protection of

. Our Fighting Sons

HE MOST valuable “Human

Machine” in any mechanized
army today is the boy who can do a
maximum of damage to the enemy
with a minimum of damage to himself.

The agile boy who can Hop to the ground—then
leap to his feet and charge ahead, all in a Hash—

The boy whose agility makes him just a fraction
of a second faster at ducking into a fox hole, or a
trench, under a sudden machine gun burst or a bomb—

The boy whose skill and agility give him a split
second advantage with a bayonet thrust, a knife slash
or a hand grenade—

The boy who sees, decides and acts just a shade
faster—son land, on sea, or in the air—

These are the boys who are the best fighters—who
are able to take care of themselves anywhere—and
whose chances of coming back intact are 100% better
than those who do not have these skills and agilities.

Actual physical fitness records of this war prove
that the boys whose basic military training and basic
calisthenics are supplemented by baseball, tennis,
boxing, football, basketball, track, judo, etc., develop
skills and agilities that make them the best fighting
men in the world.

Could anything be more important than the equip-
ment that is necessary to give them this priceless
training?

a: at at t *
So far as the materials made available to us, and
facilities not engaged in war production permit, we
will continue to supply equipment for the sports that
help to make American fighting men the most efiicient

“Human Fighting Machines” in the war.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and Wilson
Athletic Goods Mfg. Co., Inc., Chicago
New York and other leading cities

[v.9

SPORTS EQUIPMENT
IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Z42 RECREATION IN IVAR

NO MORE
ATHLETIC BADGES . . .

for the duration

0 In cooperation with the government's
metal conservation effort. the National
Recreation Association is supplying

Certificates Only for the Athletic Badge

Tests—no more badges for the duration!

The giving of Athletic Badge Tests has
an important part Jro play in Jrhe physical
fitness program. and we hope that recre-
ation departments. schools. and other
groups will continue to use the Jrests.

Certificates for the successful
completion of Hie fes’rs are

still available at $.03 each

*

,
National Recreation Assocnahon
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York Cify

Recreation in War
(Continued from page 220)

among people bound together by the ordeal of
worry, trial, and suffering. Joint effort is neces-
sary for the success of many enterprises that our
citizens are engaged in fostering. Red Cross
drives, defense drives, patriotic rallies, first-aid
and nutrition classes, and hospitality features for
soldiers on leave—these are some of the types of
enterprises that are going to bring people together
in their leisure time more than they have been
prone to assemble in the past. Talents that make
for volunteer leadership are being cultivated. Rec-
reation, therefore, during wartime is going to take
the additional form of activities voluntarily con-
tributed to the national welfare and in service to
the common interest and weal.

Certainly, then, recreations should not be cur-
tailed because of the war, but rather should be
encouraged and increased. This does not mean
that more elaborate or expensive recreations are
needed; to the contrary, many simple forms of rec-
reation can be provided which will be fully as sat-
isfying as those to which people have become ac-
customed in their more carefree days.

This thought leads to further analysis of the

types of recreation that will be fostered. \Vithout
doubt the spectator type will be just as popular as
our purses and rationing will allow. There is
catharsis value in attending the spectator sports.
They imbue us with a holiday spirit and furnish
an escape from everyday cares. And those who
like to attend the theater and listen to music will
still find the opportunity to do so. Of course,
people will want to see movies, and as yet, tire
shortages do not seem to restrict the number in
attendance at them.

These recreations, however, along with reading,
are of the passive type; and vicarious experience,
despite its usefulness in the appreciation of the
artistry and skill of others, can never give the
complete joy of actual participation by oneself. It
is incomplete if not accompanied by the satisfac-
tion of direct experience also. This observation is
not limited to the physical recreations alone, It is
true of the cultural and educational types of recre-
ation as well. During recent years there has been
a marked increase of interest along lines of par-
ticipation in dramatics, music, and the arts and
crafts.

There is yet another type of participating recre—
ation that is most important: that of mixer games
and parties, commonly called social recreation.
This type of activity is hilarious and fun—provok-
ing, and at the same time relatively inexpensive.
The chances are more than likely that the popu-
larity of these mixers will grow. Social dancing,
folk dancing, quiet games, and home games all fit
into the needs of a nation at war. They provide
entertainment and hospitality along with good-
natured fun.

Relaxation, physical fitness, spiritual toughness
(morale), better productivity, community of inter-
est, volunteer leadership, and social fellowship—
all these concomitant values of recreation become
of essential importance to a people pushed to the
limits of endurance by its determination to insure
victory. All in all, this is a time when recreation
should be recognized as absolutely necessary to the
front line of action of our nation at war.

Pete Moses Discovers Arl'
(Continued from page 208)

youths, that tragically few of them are interesting
themselves in anything that remotely resembles
the development of individualistic culture. Best of
all, it is an effective way of interesting and inspir-
ing a whole community.

:'

RECREATION

' JOSEPH LEE’S FAVORITE GAMES 243

Joseph Lee's Favorite Games
(Continued from page 213)

1. Have you any bread and wine?
For we are the Romans;
Have you any bread and wine?
For we are Roman soldiers.

2. Yes, we have some bread and wine,

For we are the English
Yes, we have some bread and wine,
For we are English soldiers.

3. Then we will have one cup full, etc.
4. No, you shan’t have one cup full, etc.
5. Then we will have two cups full, etc.
6. No, you shan’t have two cups full, etc.
7. Then we’ll tell our King on you, etc.
8. \Ve don’t care for your King or you, etc.
9. Then we’ll send our cats to scratch, etc. (pantomime)
10. We don’t care for your cats or you, etc.
11. Then we’ll send our dogs to bite, etc. (pantomime)
12. \Ve don’t care for your dogs or you, etc.
13. Are you ready for a tight? etc. (pantomime)
14. Yes, we’re ready for a fight, etc. (pantomime)
(Both lines kneel, raise imaginary gun, and yell,
“Aim, Shoot, Bang l”, fall down, and rise for
next verse) (Both sides sing, walking in a circle)
15. Now we only have one leg, etc. (all drag one leg)
16. Now we only have one arm, etc. (drag leg and hold
arm as if 'hurt)
17. Now we only have one eye, etc. (hold free hand over

eye)
18. Now we join in happy throng, etc. (all join hands and
skip forward, singing much faster)

Chasing and Running Games

About chasing and running games Joseph Lee
said, “In men’s relations to each other also, sur-
vival must, in countless instances, have been for
those who could get hrst back to the boats or to
some place of concealment or defense; and there
is certainly in the chasing games evidence of a
strong homing instinct in the getting back to goal
or to one’s own line or side.”

Hill Dill

This running game can be played indoors or
out, by almost any number of players. Play area
should be as wide as possible. Mark off two
parallel boundary lines from 30 feet to 50 feet
apart.

Divide players into two teams, each team safe
behind one of the boundary lines. “It” stands any-
where between the boundary lines, and calls out
“Hill Dill! Come over the Hill.” Each team then
runs‘across the center and tries to get behind the
opposite boundary line without being tagged.

Anyone tagged joins “It,” until all the players are
caught.

JULY 1943

       
   
     
     

1k
DIAMOND

Has Gone To War

The Army, Navy and Air Corps
are using the material that used
to go into the famous Diamond
pitching horseshoe line. When
the war is won, it'll be back to
Business As Usual.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE (0.

46l0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

  

I Spy

This hide and seek game for indoors or out, is
for any number of players.

The “spy” is blindfolded at a chosen goal, while
the others run and hide. The spy counts to 100,
shouts “Here I Come,” takes off the blindfold and
hunts for the others. When he finds someone, he
rushes to the goal, hits it three times, shouting
“One-Two-Three for ——,” naming the other
player. If he names the wrong player, then both
the one named and the one seen can come in free.

If a player sees that he has been found, he can
race the spy ~to the goal, and if he gets there first,
can hit it three times and yell “One-Two-Three-
for me,” thus saving himself from being caught.
The first player found and goal-tapped is the spy-
for the next game.

Three Deep

Three Deep is a very‘active, running, circle
game for indoors or outdoors, it requires alertness
and speed.

Form a double ring facing inward, one player
directly behind another. Two players are chosen,

244 NEW YORK CITY HOLDS A CHAMPIONSHIP

A Problem of the Country

By GRANTLAND RICE

OU’LL want reprints of this article which ap-

peared in the May issue of RECREATION-wits an
eloquent plea by America’s famed sports writer for
more and better physical training to meet the needs
of the nation’s youth—now and after the war.

A Colorful reprints of this article are available in folder
form for distribution with YOUR imprint in YOUR
city. If you are interested in supplying these folders
to local service clubs, PTA, women’s clubs, or other
community organizations, you have our permission to
print as many copies as you need, giving proper
credit to the National Recreation Association.

0r we’ll be glad to supply you with folders, including
a three line imprint, at the following rates:

500 copies . . . . . . . . . . . .3 3.50
1,000 “
5,000
10,000

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue . New York City

one to be The Hunter and the other The Hunted.
They stand on opposite sides of the circle, and at
a signal, The Hunter tries to catch‘ The Hunted.
The Hunted may save himself at any time by
stopping directly in front of any couple in the
circle, thus making “Three Deep.” The other
player becomes The Hunted and must start run-
ning instantly, and when in danger of being caught
may save himself in the same way.

Both players may go in and out of the circle, but
cannot stop when on the inside except to find
refuge in front of a couple. If The Hunter catches
The Hunted, they change places, The Hunter be-
coming The Hunted.

There are many variations of this game, and

many different names for it, such as Squirrel in
the Trees, Third Man, and Last Man.

New York City Holds 5 Championship

(Continued from page 227)
Supervision is also necessary for the success of

such a Sports Championship. On May Ist and
june Ist the Department of Parks assigned 100
additional temporary playground directors. It was
their duty to arrange playground schedules, to
officiate at games, and to supervise the tournament

 

as it progressed. With these temporary play-
ground directors, we stressed the importance of
intraplayground and district eliminations. Tourna-
ments and special activities usually are a success if
the intraplayground eliminations attract a good
entry. The borough supervisors of recreation re-
ported that the intraplayground and interplay-
ground eliminations were highly successful.

-Needless to say, spectator and participant inter-
est was at a high pitch. Wherever feasible, bleach-
ers were erected to accommodate 'spectators at all
the final contests. The schedule of the final con-
tests were so arranged that the residents of all
neighborhoods would have an Opportunity to enjoy
an afternoon of sport in the public parks.

The tournament reached a climax in a special
celebration at which the individual city-wide win-
ners were presented with twenty-five dollar \‘Var
Bonds by Commissioner Moses and Mr. Ralph
Hayes, representing the New York Community
Trust, donor of the prizes.

Omaha's "Swell-Elegant" Center

(Continued from page 201)

and complete with everything to make the service—
man’s stopover in Omaha a happy one.

Then Mrs. Allison organized twenty-one local
women’s civic and patriotic groups into a volun-
teer stafi‘; she arranged that each organization
would handle the Center for one or two days a
month. _

In a very short time the spacious, attractive
lounge room was filled 'with comfortable uphol-
stered furniture; a dormitory was set up with beds
for any man who needed a few snatches of sleep
between trains after a long cross-country trip;
showers were installed; and a game room which
stretches almost a half a block, with table tennis,
pool and billiard tables, a radio, a “juke” phono-
graph, and a piano.

The canteen or kitchen is the major point of in—
terest. Everything is free. All visiting members of
the armed forces are given cigarettes, chocolate,
coffee, milk, ice cream, doughnuts, cookies, potato
chips, apples, hard boiled eggs and weiners.

Printed stationery for letters home is placed at i
all writing tables. The Center is a veritable para-
dise for the traveling serviceman with anything he
wants at no cost.

Now for a few pertinent facts. The Center is
open twenty—four hours a day, but the canteen only
from 7:00 A. M. to 11:00 P. M. The men come
from all sections of the nation; they are members

RECREATION.

BERT SWENSON 245

Bert Swenson

Twenty-five Years a Recreation Executive

ON MAY 18, 1943, BERT SWENSON completed
twenty-five years service as the recreation

executive in Stockton, California. During these
twenty-five years Bert Swenson has seen the num—
ber of playgrounds grow until today Stockton has
twelve publicly owned softball and baseball dia-
monds. Yosemite Lake has been converted into an
attractive park, with facilities for all types of
swimmers. The city maintains fifteen tennis courts
in various sections of the city. There is a munici-
pally owned golf course. There has been a very
considerable expansion in the number of parks, in
the acreage and in the facilities. Bert Swenson has
worked in -close cooperation with the Stockton
Park Department.

There has been a municipal camp at Silver Lake.
This has been an ideal summer mountain play—
ground, wi_th facilities for swimming, fishing,
hiking.

Despite all the progress that has taken place,
Bert Swenson still has in mind a very large num-
ber of recreation projects which people are asking
for and have-not yet been carried through. During
the last quarter of a century Bert Swenson has
achieved no little fame as a teller of Swedish
stories. Throughout the city he has been recog-
nized as devoted completely to working for the
best interests of all the people of the city.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

of all branches of the armed°forces; and the repu-
tation of this place is such that as soon as they
leave the train they make a “beeline” for the Center.

Mrs. Allison keeps a comment book where any
of the visiting men can write a few lines, more or
less personal, before departing. The comments in
this book are a wonderful tribute to Mr. Jeffers,
Mrs. Allison and her corps of volunteer workers.

The only compensation these volunteers get is
the tremendous thrill of the many expressions of
appreciation from hard-boiled sergeants or from
homesick boys of twenty-one or less, who are
away from home for the first time in their lives
and who start talking at this sudden reappearance
of a bit of comfort and kindness that they miss in
the rigors of army life. Omaha’s Center is a vivid
example of successful recreational welfare work.
Its reputation is proof of its success.

JULY 1943

 «W ATHLETIC

~‘m EQUIPMENT

raw-11

"P; u; w l w W" Cm :. F nit 2' is: We? C3"
8r. -- '1"?! mar-.35- ‘

 

Are They Fit for Combat?

(Continued from page 229)
to engage in vigorous activities (with some of the

activities requiring maximum speed) over a long
period of time in one day, and then to repeat the
same activities day after day. To be made “fit,”
men need training, The great majority have not
had it before they are drafted; in general, they are
not getting it in the army.

Certainly few army officers know how to build
up raw recruits to a standard in neuro-muscular
strength and endurance for combat service. They
should not be expected to know. It is not part of
their traditional job. It takes seven years of pro-
fessional education to become a physical educator.
The foundation sciences in the professional educa-
tion are similar to the premedical course, but fol—
lowing these the distinctly theoretical professional
sciences take from three to four years more. Hence,
in this basic building up of “physical fitness,” army
officers need the help of professionally educated
physical educators. And this does not mean ath-
letes, collegian or professional.

Concerning this problem of “fitness, two or
three points can be made which are of vital im-
portance: first, before this war is over tens of
thousands of American boys will lose their lives
simply because of a lack of a proper physical edu-
cation during their youth and now in the army
lack of proper “physical fitness” training program
each day through a period of eight to eighteen
months before entering combat service, the time
of training to be determined by “fitness” tests.

Second, many more thousands will become
“mental cases” than became so in \Vorld \Var I.
Requirements in their hospitalization and care after
the war together with the enormous cost of pen-
sions for two generations will be a great unneces—
sary national strain and drain on peace economy.
Most of these potential cases can be picked out by
experienced professionally trained observers in and
during the physical “fitness” training program.
These observers with competent psychological test_-

”

246 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

ers and psychiatrists could eliminate all of these
predetermined mental cases before they enter com-
bat service and thus save them from becoming a
social burden of vast proportions.

Third, the two points above are directly related
to the manpower problem. In this manpower prob—
lem, farm labor for the production of food is a
most important part today in our war struggle, the
most important part except for the actual produce
tion of fighting equipment. These “unfit” army
recruits should, therefore, be sent to the farms and
frozen there for the duration. This applies to all
recruits who are reasonably certain to become
“mental cases” or chronic invalids or self-pitying
dependents whether the “unfitness” is due to the
neglect of their early physical education or to their
present conditioning being too time-consuming and
expensive or whether due to “temperament” or
“mental traits.”

Some who have craft skills or aptitudes might
be sent to industrial plants t0°replace thousands of
men in these plants who are highly competent
combat material and who are doing work these
potential mental cases could do. Further, the po-
tential mental cases should be kept under some
sort of organized surveillance with frequent in—
spection to see that under the strains of wartime
life they do not degenerate into social dependents.

To summarize and to bring out again the three
important points which should receive immediate
attention :

I. Install an up-to-date, efficient, properly organ-
ized and supervised “physical fitness” train-
ing program throughout the training camps.

2. Under this program have experienced pro-
fessionally trained observers to weed out the
mental cases.

3. As a follow—up, have an organization to
place the potential mental cases on the farms,
thus reducing the farm labor shortage, or
place the more skilled in the industrial plants,
thus releasing men in those plants who are
competent combat material.

I’r's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 233)

less raincoats, resin for screw top jars, cellophane
bubbles for sponge rubber, wool from skim milk
and soy beans will all become as familiar as silk
in the form of rayon and nylon.

Poison Ivy is more virile when the sap is most
abundant, i.e., spring and early summer. People
are more susceptible when “sweaty.” Use strong

laundry soap if you think that you have been in
contact with the plant.

Science Club, Camp Hill High School, Pennsyle
vania, shows films to the student body, repairs
bell-wiring system, installs stage-lighting, serves as

airplane spotters, spots erosion problems, plants

trees, and explores caves. ' D. L. Knohr is the
sponsor of the school.

Boston's New Playground

(Continued from page 221)

we pay tribute to a man-~John Harvard—and the
ideals for which he stood. We recapture for a
moment his early faith in the eventual blossoming
of the wilderness to which he came to preach God’s
word. . . . Our brothers, our friends, our sons,
today, are fighting a battle for freedom around the
globe. The evil forces they seek to overthrow
threaten the very basis of John Harvard’s dream-—
they condemn and ridicule the idea that each indi-
vidual is a sacred soul—for them slavery, not
liberty, is the promised land. Therefore, these
ceremonies are for men symbolic of the spirit
which now burns throughout this nation. - . .

“It is now my privilege on behalf of the Presi—
dent and Fellows of Harvard College to convey
this land to the city of Boston, to afford rest and
recreation to the men, women, and children of this
place forever. May the aspirations, the generosity,
the opportunity of American life which it sym-
bolizes be a reality to the youngest members of
this audience and to their children’s children !”

Governor Saltonstall told the audience, “This
outdoor spot, in the heart of the city, has been
created in our darkest hours of war so that chil~
dren may grow up to be better men and women
in a better world. It is a living token of that hope
and of that faith which we so sorely need today. . . .

“Here is a magnificent playground. Here is a
provision for enjoyment for young and old. Here
is a place for wholesome activity and recreation;
here is opportunity for folks to grow strong with
the kind of strength that comes of peaceful lives....

“So in this grim business of war, let us think
of our children. Let us think of play—and always
of fair play. That is the Spirit which has made and
kept America as the land of the free and the home
of the brave. \Vith that spirit-—a11d with the faith
of John Harvard in the better land that would
grow beyond his time—with those ideals—we are
here today to dedicate gratefully one more spot
from which our future citizens may receive benefit
and encouragement and joy.”

RECREATION

ROY BENTON NAYLOR 247

Roy Benton Naylor
July 22. |87| -May 6. I943

N THE DEATH OF ROY BENTON NAYLOR oii May

6, 1943, the recreation movement lost one of its
pioneers who had helped greatly in starting the
playgrounds in Wheeling, West Virginia; who had
had an active share in the work of the National
Recreation Association for many years ; had served
as the Association sponsor in Wheeling for twenty-
two years; was an honorary member of the Asso—
ciation. Mr. Naylor was beloved of all who knew
him. His fellow citizens recognized the great con—
tribution he had made to the recreation movement
in Wheeling and also his larger service to the gen-
eral movement throughout the country.

HOWARD BRAUC‘H ER

 

 

After Retirement—What?

(Continued from page 223 )

magic of shape notes which has made singing in—
teresting and easy for him ever since. He was a
member of singing organizations while in college.
From time to time throughout his teaching career
he has been the director of the church choir, and
when he is a member of the congregation his ex—
cellent tenor voice, in correct time, pitch, and tone,
can be heard giving pleasure and confidence to all
those near him. His knowledge of music ranges
from “good old mountain music” to the greatest
symphonies. He chooses his type of music to suit
his mood.

Music will be a great asset for Professor VVin-
stead in the days and nights of leisure which are
now in prospect. In all his musical activities he
. has never aspired to leadership, has never been
sensitive about his accomplishments, has never
wanted “to shine.” His only purpose has been to
serve wherever and whenever needed and to get
joy and satisfaction out of it while doing it.

Creative Arts

Of all the leisure activities which Professor
W instead enjoys, perhaps the one which gives him
most pleasure is his creative arts. The arts shop
in the basement of his residence is a place of won—
derment and magic, It is equipped with jig saw,
band saw, hand saws, wood lathe, iron lathe, ream—
ers, drill press, forge, chisels, planes, screw driv-
ers, augurs, and scores of other items that would

JULY 1943

delight any teen age boy. In that shop goes the
professor with his ideas and out of it comes objects
of usefulness and beauty—old guns restocked, re—
barreled, newly boiled, bored and chilled; antique
pieces of furniture rehnished and made “like new"
or actually reproduced, hooked—rug frames and
needles produced in a jiffy. The fact is that when
his neighbors need anything and no carpenter,
cabinet maker, blacksmith, or locksmith can make
it, Professor \Vinstead is commandeered. He goes
into his shop and presently out comes “the wish
all come true.”

It has become a truism in N atchitoches that “if
no one else can or will do it and it needs to be
done, call \Ninstead. He can and will.” That is
how it happens that he is the teacher of the Tom-
mie Porter Sunday School class of the Methodist
Church. To get anybody, anywhere, anytime, to
teach a Sunday School class is an achievement, as
any Sunday School superintendent well knows!
The Tommie Porter class was no exception.
Finally, Professor VVinstead, as is his custom and
his spirit, stepped into the breach and became its
teacher. So, teaching a men’s class on Sunday is
what Professor W'instead does “for his fun and
for the good of old souls.” For many years he has
been a steward and a trustee of the church, the
personification of modesty and faithfulness.

So, when he ceases to teach Latin and closes his
school room, Professor VVinstead will be busy with
his leisure activities, hustling all the time, day and
night—just for fun.

Joseph Lee Day in San Francisco
(Confimted from page 212)

to them and their families by the Recreation De—
partment will be made on and around Joseph Lee
Day through many channels such as hotel and

‘ apartment magazines, personnel managers, etc.

It has been recommended to the San Francisco
Recreation Commission that the next playground
or large recreational unit to be opened in the city
be named and dedicated to Joseph Lee.

The Commission has also received the sugges—
tion that honor clubs, named “Joseph Lee Clubs,”
be started on playgrounds as an award for good
playground citizenship. Standards of behavior and
skills would determine eligibility to membership.
Members would be required to be acquainted with
the life and works of Joseph Lee, the philosophy
and present—day purpose and conduct of recreation.

248 SPOKANE’S CIVIC HORSE TRADER

Spokane's Civic Horse Trader
(Continued from page 228)

“You’d never suspect that was one of the worst
spots in Spokane,” he exclaimed, as we drove by
a particularly lovely bit of river-front park. “I
bought it twelve years ago for seventy-five dollars.”

White also “horse trades” with real estate oper-
ators. Built on hills, Spokane has, from a real
estate viewpoint, many unusable slopes and ra-
vines. White asks these as gifts for park and even
playground sites, and has thus picked up over four
hundred acres. One real estate syndicate alone
contributed ninety-eight acres. What they gave
away made the rest of the tract so much more
valuable that they felt their gift more than paid
for itself.

All told, the Spokane park system has grown
from 273 acres to 2,727 in White’s time. There is,
in addition, an equal area outside the city, for
which White should be thanked. Known as the
Up-River and Down-River Parkway, this area
protects the river banks for fifteen miles on either
side of Spokane.

Garden Contests

White’s most effective work has been done dur-
ing the past decade when, his fortune gone with
the boom, and in his sixties, he started anew as
garden editor of the Spokesman-Review and head
of that newspaper’s civic betterment section. He
launched front-yard and back-yard garden con-
tests, persuading merchants to put up plants, bulbs,
and implements as prizes. He inspired so many
garden clubs that they formed a federation. He
waged war on signboards so effectively that Spo—
kane motorists can drive for a hundred miles over
parkways around the city without seeing a bill—
board or a sign nailed to a tree.

\Vhite talked the “IPA into letting him have
men, and the highway department into lending him
equipment, to finish park projects like the Bowl
and Pitcher, a picnic ground in a pine-studded
bend in the river where 180,000 Spokane people
ate outdoors last summer. He lined up CCC boys
to landscape unsightly railroad and highway fills.
He built scout camps, golf courses, shooting ranges,
walking trails, restored the historic Hudson Bay
and Astor trading posts. He got ugly bridges
across the river replaced by graceful spans, He
saved the region's geologic wonders, such as Deep
River Canyon, remarkable for its volcanic Flows
and glacial scraping.

To accomplish these civic feats White joined
every association and club in town. “I went to all
the meetings,” he explains, “and by outtalking
everybody there I got them all working with me.”
The Chamber of Commerce, the Advertising Club,
the Boy Scouts, the Izaak Walton League, the
churches, have civic beautification committees upon
which White can call.

On a map Aubrey White pointed out the areas
he had set down in his bookstore days for recrea-
tion sites. Nearly every acre is in the park system
now.

"Y" Recreation on the Night Shift
( Continued from page 200)

responsibility in planning and carrying out activi—
ties, and they have done a great deal to maintain
discipline in their own programs.

We are now in the process of developing further
contacts with management and labor in order to
keep war workers informed of recreational oppor-
tunities available for them at the Y.\V.C.A. From
the beginning of the shift workers’ program we
have had excellent cooperation from labor and
management. We have always tried to make our
contacts with industrial groups on this joint basis,
and through it we hope to secure the fullest co—
operation of the workers themselves and to pro-
mote a program which they want. Fliers, folders,
and posters have been circulated through many
unions and plants. Stories have been carried in
plant and union periodicals. The newspapers in
general have been cooperative in using stories and
photographs describing our activities. Through
our publicity office we have placed a car card in
the most important trolley and bus lines serving
war workers. ' ’

Charles H. English, coordinator of the Recrea-
tion Committee, Philadelphia Council of Defense,
has helped us throughout our program. “7 e believe
that further development in the entire war work-
ers’ program can be made now that the Recreation
Committee has appointed a special worker who
will act as promoter and coordinator of war work—
ers' programs carried on by various groups in the
city.

Because of the enlarged appropriation granted
us through the War Chest it has been possible to
launch an expanded program. The daytime activi-
ties. particularly the breakfast dances referred to,
are one specific type of program recently begun.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Ready, Sing!

Edited by Harry Robert Wilson, Ed.D. Manuscript by
Victor C. Neisch. The Penny Press Series. Emerson

Books, Inc., 251 West 19th Street, New York. $.15.
THERE ARE 29 AMERICAN SONGS in this collection Of

time-tested American fOlk songs arranged for group
singing. For the most part they are songs from our own
United States, although several have come from our
neighbors to the North and South. Simple arrangements
Of the music make it possible for accompaniments to be
played 'by anyone with a limited piano technique. Sug-
gestions are given for making the singing Of each song
most enjoyable.

Two Song Collections

The Penny Press Series. Emerson Books, Inc., 251 West
19th Street, New York.

HERE ARE 26 SONGS in Cantemos! a collection of

Spanish songs for group singing designed for use by
classes in the study Of Spanish and in social groups for
informal singing.

Chantez! with its 25 songs performs the same service
in the study of French. Both collections Offer simple
arrangements, and individuals with limited musical train-
ing can participate in the singing and playing Of the
songs. Each collection is available at 15 cents. '

Individual Sports for Women

By Dorothy S. Ainsworth and other members Of the
Department of Physical Education of Smith College.

W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. $3.50.
IN THESE DAYS OF STRESS there is need for the playing Of

games which help maintain balance and increase gen-
eral fitness. Individual sports can help greatly in meeting
this need, for they may be played by twos or alone if
necessary, may be practiced at odd moments, and offer
a wide choice from the very strenuous to mild activities.
The sports described include archery, badminton, fencing,
golf, riding, swimming, tennis, and bowling. One chapter
is devoted to tournaments.

Landmarks of Early American Music

By Richard Franko Goldman and Roger Smith. G.
Schirmer, Inc., New York. $1.50.

HERE IS AN INTERESTING COLLECTION Of 32 compositions

for orchestra or band or smaller instrumental groups,

or mixed chorus (SATB) with or without accompani-

ment. The period covered is from 1760 to 1800, and the

psalm-tunes, hymns, patriotic songs and marches which
are included represent a little—explored field in the evolu-
tion Of our own American music.

JULY 1943

Let's Have Fun at Home

Prepared by the Recreation Leadership Department,
Richmond Professional Institute, College of William
and Mary. Published by Community Recreation Asso-
ciation, Richmond, Virginia. $.15.

HIS DELIGHTFUL BOOKLET with its amusing illustrations

is a challenge to every family tO “have fun.” Prac-
tical suggestions are given for games and for activities
for various age groups, and hobbies, music, storytelling,
and other activities are discussed.

Herbs—How to Grow Them and
How to Use Them

By Helen Noyes Webster. Ralph T. Hale and Company,

Boston. $1.25.

HE SECOND EDITION of Mrs. Webster’s book, revised

and enlarged, is a complete and practical volume start-
ing with a fascinating chapter on “Early Periods and
Designs of the Herb Garden.” Mrs. Webster takes her
readers through Colonial Gardens. Then follows a wealth
of information on herbs Of all kinds and hOW‘ to grow,
dry, and cure them. Uses Of herbs are discussed, and
there is a chapter on “Cooking with Herbs.” The book

ends with a Check List Of Herbs for Modern Gardens
and a bibliography.

"Y" BoysI Clubs in Neighborhood
and School

Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York. $.50.

THIS BOOKLET describes two organizations for *boys de—

veloped by the Y.M.C.A.—~the Gra-Y Club, an organi-
zation for ‘boys Of grade school age, and the N-Y Club,
an abbreviated name for neighborhood Y.M.C.A. clubs.
Although the booklet discusses programs and material
developed specifically for these two clubs, it contains
many suggestions Of interest to all leaders of boys’
groups.

Small Creations for Your Tools

By Hazel F. Showalter. Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $2.75.

SEVENTY-EIGHT “small creations” are described here and
they all utilize such salvage material as tin cans,
Old chair rungs, spools, clotheSpins, and scraps of wood.
Even if his tools be no more than a jackknife or a
coping saw, the beginner can derive a lot of pleasure
from creating many of these novelties, including animal
toys, accessories for inside and outside the home, and
handy gadgets for personal use. Plates give accurate
dimensions and details of design.

251

NEW WRINKLES IN CAMP COOKERY

We are also experimenting with special programs
for young women workers who have left school
to take jobs created by the war emergency. This
group, we feel, needs special activities adjusted to
their age, and a great deal of help is necessary here
to facilitate a satisfactory adjustment to the job
and to the new status of the individual herself who
may be earning money for the first time.

In making contacts with this group we have the
full cooperation of the Certificating Division of the
Board of Education and the Division of Pupil Per-
sonnel and Counseling. Many school counselors
have pointed out the prime needs of this group and
have encouraged us in every way to develop a
special program for these young people most of
whom are sixteen and seventeen years of age.
Shift programs do not fit these needs because of
the limitation of working hours and the nature of
the jobs performed by the girls. Special classifica—
tions of this age group are therefore necessary,

and they are securing an interested response from
the girls.

All war workers are welcome in the Y.W.C.A.
without restriction, and previous Y.W.C.A. mem-
bership is not required. We do our best to have
everyone feel comfortable and “wanted,” and we
encourage workers to come in their working clothes.
What we have done we view as a very modest be-
ginning and recognize the developments made thus
far as an adaptation of our “going” industrial pro-
grams to different hourly schedules. None of the
experiments could have been made or developed
without long hours and hard work on the part of
the industrial secretaries at the four branches of
the Y.W.C.A. taking part in the program.

New Wrinkles in Camp Cookery

(Continued from page 232)

with the same outfit that serves for a tireless
cooker. For the freezer, a smaller box will do, and
no crushed paper is necessary; but we need a half

of a heavy door hinge or other flat weight to work
as a “dasher.”

Fill the quart can with three quarters of a pint
of milk, a half pint of cream and some jam. pre-
serves, honey, syrup or what have you. Plug tight
with the weight inside and put in the gallon can
with a mixture of I part rock salt and 6 parts of
cracked ice. Tie up in the carton and turn once in
a while so that the weight will stir the cream freez-
ing on the tin into the unfrozen cream in the

IULY 1943

TRAINING YOUR
PLAYGROUND LEADERS

. . . An Institute Syllabus

HE WAR has created a shortage of experienced

and trained playground workers. This summer
playground authorities must use as leaders many per-
sons whose preparation for such service has been very
limited. The presummer institute will be more es-
sential than ever before and training programs will
need to be conducted throughout the season.

To help playground authorities plan and conduct
their training institute and in-service training pro-
grams, the Association offers a new booklet, Training
Your Playground Leaders—An Institute Syllabus. It
contains lists of topics for discussion and study with
detailed outlines and reading references for each, a
suggested institute schedule, and practical ideas for
institute procedure.

Price $.35

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

center. Before the ice is all melted, the freezing
will be done. If the cream has to be kept any
length of time, however, pour out the water and
make a new salt-ice mixture for packing,

If fresh milk and cream are not available, there
are dried substitutes, including milk powder. Some
like an egg stirred in. For perfect sterilization,
mixture, can and all should be pasteurized: i.e.,
simmered in a pail of boiling water for 20 minutes
and then cooled and frozen.

The followng table will be helpful for use with
the tireless cooker. M = the number of minutes of
preliminary cooking before packing in the cooker.
H = the number of hours in the cooker:

Boiled lish, 5 M and 2 H; fish chowder, same;
steamed stuffed hsh, IO M and 3 H; chicken, 30 M
and 6 H; fowl, 40 M and I2 H; rabbit, IOM and
3 H; baked meat loaf, 60 M and 2 H; boiled meat,
IO M, then skim and again 5 M and 3 H ; pot
roast, 20 M and 66 H; boiled ham, I5 M and
12 H; veal, 30 M and 5 H.

Boiled turnips, 5 M and 1% H; brown bread,
30 M and 6 H ; corn meal pudding, I5 M and 3 H;
tomatoes, 5 M and 2 H; baked beans, I5 M and
12 H; fresh asparagus, green beans, corn, squash,
5 M and I H; fresh limas, I5 M and IZH; fresh

beets, I5 M and 3 H; cabbage, 5 M and 2 H; corn
in the ear, 5 M and 3 H.

DEMOCRACY AND RECREATION

Democracy 'and Recreation
(Continued from page 235)

sponsibility than the leader had thought possible,
and the Coops became a better integrated group
than they had ever been in play activities.

Decentralization of control and authority can
and should be applied by all recreation and social
agencies. This implies a mutual recognition of the
responsibilities of agency, leader, and group to one
another with the accompanying interplay of free
discussion and criticism.

The professional leader is in a key position to
affect a high degree of community organization
through the use of the natural leadership in every
group. People who have special skills are often
happy to share their knowledge with others and
thus make valuable contributions to the life of the
community. Others, with no particular skill, may
have a high degree of influence in swaying groups
of their associates. This applies to children as
well as adults. All these can be worked into a
well-rounded community recreation program.

Since they may not be adept in leadership, vol-
unteers can and should be trained by the profes-
sional worker through personal interviews, insti-
tutes, and meetings. Not only do volunteers help
to relieve the recreation worker of some of the
details of his many-sided job, but they add a great
deal of color and diversity to the whole picture and
contribute to a wider understanding of the com-
munity of which they are a part. A skillful leader
not only gives to a community but draws out of
it what he can use to further his objectives.

But none of this is possible unless the leader has
a thorough understanding of the cultural, economic
and social life of the people. For example, a knowl-
edge of the Italian love of “Bocci” games can be
i the starting point of organizing groups of Italian
men in a neighborhood. The laying out of a suit-
able court is a simple matter and as soon as the
word gets around, the men will come of their own
free will. From there on it is up to the leader to
discover who are the key personalities and to moti-
vate them to organize the group. A group of this
kind would probably require very little help from
the recreation worker unless the members branch

out into other fields, which, of course, is highly
desirable.

There are some groups, however, in which the
leader will play an important part because of his
own skill or interest in the activity. The danger

in this set-up is that he may shoulder all the prob-
lems and try to solve them himself, which is what
we are trying to avoid. A newly formed archery
club once approached a superintendent of recrea-
tion for space in one of the public parks. The
superintendent expressed his interest in archery to
the extent of becoming a member of the group. He
promised to lay out a field that would be suitable
for practice and involved himself in numerous
other plans which were never realized. When he
left town for another position before any of the
problems had been solved, the archery club had
nothing but hard feelings for him and the entire
park department.

Another park superintendent became an active
member of the municipal saddle club which he
helped organize. He realized that it was a great
temptation to the members to let him make the
decisions, buy the feed, hire the handymen and so
on, but he refused to take any more responsibility
than the other members and insisted that all busi-
ness matters be discussed at the meetings. The
result of this procedure was a well organized group
around a common interest in which each partici-
pant had equal rights, privileges, and responsi-
bilities.

These examples have been cited to show the
value of democratic organization in leisure-time

'activities. It is now, more than ever, the duty of

every person in the recreation movement to face
the challenge of the present situation and criticize
his techniques in the light of democratic principles.

Houston Takes Inventory of a

Year at War
( Continued from page 225)

Servicemen’s teams to some degree took the
place of teams leaving for war, taking part in the
program with gusto and enthusiasm rivaling that
of the civilian teams of old. The greatest short
tournament ever staged in the city was put on by
military teams in sponsoring a War Bond softball
tournament during which $184,000 worth of bonds
were sold, Seventeen teams participated.

In the junior division, softball showed an in-
crease and baseball, as usual, had its following.
Swimming pools, however, ‘drew the largest num-
ber, and 38,000 more children participated this
year than last. Here again servicemen were enter-

tained, over 6,000 being admitted free during the
season.

RECREATION

252 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Controlling Absenteeism—A Record
of War Plant Experience.

Special Bulletin No. 12, U. S. Department of Labor.
Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing
Office, Washington, D. C. $.10.

This publication discusses the meaning of absenteeism
and its causes, absence control devices, and offers sug-
gestions for reducing absenteeism through community
action. Transportation, housing, wartime difficulties in
conducting shopping and personal business, child care,
and recreation are offered as factors which community
action may influence.

The Old Dirt Dobber’s Garden Book.

By Thomas A. Williams. Robert M. McBride and
Company, New York. $2.75.

This book was not written for professional gardeners
or experts Ibut for the millions of home gardeners who
want to grow plants and flowers of which they may be
proud. Information is given regarding soils, trees, shrubs,
perennials, annuals, bulbs, house plants, water gardens,
lawns, sprays and fertilizers. There is also a section on
the vegetable garden which gives a number of basic
facts and a plan for a small garden 30 by 50 feet.

The Land of Cotton and Other Plays.

By Randolph Edmonds. The Associated Publishers,
Inc., Washington, D. C. $3.25.

In addition to “The Land of Cotton,” four other plays
by Negro authors are presented in this collection. Mr.
'Edmonds points out in his introduction the importance
of keeping in mind the fact that the Negro playwright
at present is a beginning playwright and that those who
are writing plays now are only breaking the ground that
has been plowed, harrowed, and planted in the other arts.

Information regarding royalty fees may 'be secured
from the Associated Publishers at 1538 Ninth Street,
N .W., Washington.

War Handbook—What the P.T.A. Can Do
to Aid in the Nation’s War Program.

National Congress of Parents and Teachers, 600
South Michigan Boulevard, Chicago.

The National Congress of Parents and Teachers, in
issuing this attractive booklet on what the P.T.A. can do
to aid the war effort, has given concrete suggestions for
service along the following lines: morale; health; educa-
tion; juvenile protection; consumer safeguards; safety;
recreation; aid to the men in service; community co-
operation and volunteer service; and wartime finance.
Valuable references are included. A limited number of
this handbook are available from the National Congress
of Parents and Teachers on request.

Your Dog as a Hobby.

By Irving C. Ackerman and Kyle Onstott. Harper
and Brothers, New York. $2.00.

“This book,” say the authors, “is for those who hear
with us the call of the dog, who sense the need of a dog’s
comradeship, and who desire to fulfill that need in the
keeping of a dog or dogs.” It is a unique, helpful guide
on how to cultivate and enjoy the profitable and worth-
while hobby of raising dogs. Every phase of dog owning
is fully covered in this book in a way which will the help-
ful to the beginner, though the more experienced dog
keeper will also find material to serve him.

The Birth of a Nation’s Song.

By K. L. Bakeless. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
Philadelphia. $1.50.

The story of the birth of “The Star-Spangled Banner,”
as told by Katherine Bakeless, is a thrilling one for all

boys and girls to read. The plot deals with the actual
boy and girl of old Baltimore who shared in the creation
of the song in a most interesting way.

Church Group Activities for.
Young Married People.

By George ‘Gleason, Ph.D. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $1.00.

This is the third edition of a booklet presenting a
study of the activities of young married peeple in the
Protestant churches of Southern California. A new chap-
ter appears in this edition entitled “Ten Human Needs
Which the Church Can Helpnto Meet,” outlining a new
philosophy for the church in its relationships with young
people. Another new chapter reports the rapidly growing
church programs for young adults throughout the United
States and Canada.

Guide to the Appalachian Trail
in the Southern Appalachians.

Publication No. 8. The Appalachian Trail Confer-
ence. 808 Seventeenth Street, N.W., Washington,
D. C. $1.75.

“Interesting to the armchair hiker —— indispensable on
the trail” is the description given of the second edition of
the 440-page Guide presented in loose-leaf form. Infor-
mation is given on 420 miles of trail. As the pages are
removable, only the sections and maps for the districts
to be visited need be carried on a trip.

 

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUM MER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MBLVILLE H. IIASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKBN, Augusta, Me.

MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. W'ADSWORTH, Washington" D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERch M. VVARDURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

