On January I, l943

_ RECREATION is one of the few great divisions of life.

'Wherever man goes he carries with him concern for religion
education

health

recreation
work.
Recreation has its contribution to make to religion, to education, to health of body and
mind, to work.

Yet man is most fully himself in his religion and his recreation.

Religion and recreation have always been closely related—though we often do not
stop to think of this.

Music, drama, art, sport, nature, speak the language of aspiration.
Through them man may reach up to the highest he is to become.

:1: :1: * >l<

It is to recreation that on January 1, 1943, we dedicate ourselves, nearly 4,000 of us,
who give all our time and strength, and some hundreds of thousands more who as
volunteers give of their best to the same cause.

,The national recreation movement goes on steadily and will go on steadily as long as
‘ W1th Slngleness of purpose we serve men, women, and children—and them alone.

>:< :1: >3: :1:

I 0 O

.In the last 37 years qu1te a number have come and gone who would use recreatlon not
for man but for ulterior purposes.

Sometimes the desire has been to build capital, sometimes to build labor, sometimes to
build institutions, sometimes merely to build individual prestige.

* a: >l< a:
All such in the past have come and gone no matter how much they flourished for the
moment.
- a: :1: >2: 1:

The National Recreation Association has stood always as it stands on January 1, 1943,
as a place where people of all nationalities, all religions, of all colors, whether of
capital or of labor, whether of city or of open country, could unite to work in
cooperation.

The Association has tried through many people and many agencies to build recreation
for the people, all the people, rather than over much to advertise itself or bu11d
itself. It has such a record—a record of nearly 37 years.

You who work cooperatively through the Association do not need to be disturbed.
Centralized power is not to take the place of voluntary cooperation. In the realm
of things spiritual, such as religion and recreation, there will always be a large
place for voluntary cooperative leadership. The Association will ever be as strong

as your cooperation is.
One thing we have to do, and one thing onlyH—that is to continue'in voluntary coopera—

tion to do our job effectively and with singleness of purpose to help .men serve
themselves in their free hours. And always now our task IS first to help wm the war.

 

JANUARY I943 W 6mm

' ' 541

 

 

Recreation and Spiritual Power in Wartime

By RABBI JAMES G. HELLER

HE FIRST IMPRESSION one must bring to such a

Tgathering as this is that which the average un-

thinking man would entertain.

We are engaged in one of the most tragic of tasks.

Even with the words of the President, warning

upon the heels of warning, ringing in our ears,
Even listening-over the radio and hearing the
sirens blowing in London, when the bombers
began to rain incendiary and high-explosive
bombs from the sky,
Even though we know the fate of those whom
the Nazis have subdued—sold into bondage,
subjected to the last indignities they could de-
vise, shot as hostages for their brothers who had
struck a blow for freedom,

Even with all this and much more, most of us have
not begun to envisage all this war will embroil
before it will be done.

But already, in response to an intuition of its cru—
cial, decisive character, men are demanding con-
centration only upon the essential, ignoring the
unessential, abandoning it, until victory will
have been won, until we shall be able to return
to our wonted ways.

Some wish to lay aside religion, call off all the

conclaves and assemblies by which religion pre- .

pared itself. for the world to come.

Some wish to diminish education to an absolute
minimum.

And doubtless the average man would say, “We
can let recreation go, ‘for the duration.’ ”

All this is far too simple a concept and statement
of our problem—the problem which is that of
the free peoples of the world in this war.

Put as succinctly as I can, it is this:

How to win without abandoning our way of life,
How to conquer without descending to the cul-
tural, spiritual level of our feral enemies.
To be sure that the victory,
when it shall have been

W011, With this inspiring message, Rabbi
James G. Heller of Cincinnati ad-
dressed the general opening session of
the War Recreation Congress in Sep-
tember. As one of the outstanding
religious leaders in America, Rabbi
Heller is well qualified to discuss
the spiritual power of recreation.

will prove to have been
worth winning;

That it will mean not a
long eclipse of democracy,
of the ideals of freedom,
justice, brotherhood,

But that it will carry with it their rebirth, their
rejuvenation, a new career of lusty, joyous
creation.

To me the problem of recreation is one of the cen-
tral aspects of the tasks of the evolution of the
human race.

I know that that is an apodictic sentence, which
makes little sense in end of itself.
I shall try to justify it as rapidly as I can.

If you will pardon me a personal word,
I should like to tell you how I feel about my
own recreations.

I told my father I wanted to be a rabbi, when I
was thirteen years old,

And even before that I had had a deep yearning to
serve the cause of religion, and through it the
cause of men.

But I had also loved music from my earliest child-
hood.

And all through the years, when I was studying
for the ministry,

All through the time when I was struggling in
my first pulpit, even in the days when I served
as a Chaplain in France in the last war.

I studied music, found solace in playing it on
the piano or on the organ,

Continued to learn to acquire the rudiments of
harmony, counterpoint, the use of instruments.

It has come to mean more and more to me, as the
years have gone by.

It is still, in the strictest sense, a recreation, an
avocation.

I find time, late at nights, to write the program
notes of the Symphony Orchestra, to lie on my
bed and read orchestral scores.

In the summers I try to find refuge in some place
of peace and beauty, as this summer in the
mountains of Mexico,

And to give rein to the longing for musical cre-
ation, which has been gathering potential per-

haps for a year or two.

I do not think I could do en-
tirely without it.

Unless I am utterly in error, it
makes me a rounder man,
one who touches the spirit
of God in another of the
veins of fire through which
it flows.

543

544 RECREATION AND SPIRITUAL POWER IN IVARTIME

It convinces me more with every year of its pro-

found, organic relation to religion, of the things
it can say of the heart and to the heart, with
which even the most eloquent words cannot
compete.

It completes my life, brings me both ecstasy and
release, a joy different from all other, and a
strong consciousness of breathing a purer,
serener air,

Of knowing a place where all storms are trans-
muted into the contours of beauty.

Is this recreation alone?

No, it is creation, too!

Bound up, in a myriad ways, with what I wish
to have, with what I wish to be!

Recreation is the growing point of culture,

The area in which the spirit of a time is best
judged.

Man is the wave, as Bergson put it in his “Crea-
ative Evolution,”
that has burst across the barrier and into the
open sea.

In him instinct, moving
through the higher pri-
mates, has culminated in
intelligence.

In him there is the restless-
ness of freedom,

The insatiability of the dim
vision of the ideal.

And yet, through most of his history, he has been
bound to the Ixion-wheel of necessity,

He has spent his days in the stern effort to live.

The dark, deterministic picture which Malthus
drew in his famous “Essay on Population” of
the increase of men always tending to exceed
their subsistence, and of war, pestilence and
famine as balancing the equation,

May not always have been true; but in most
times, and for most of the sons of men, it has
been so.

All the classical descriptions of man—in Homer,
in Hesiod, in the Bible—coincide with this.

Man is a sojourner, a stranger upon earth.

Thorns and thistles grow in his way, and he must
till the soil in the sweat of his brow.

Disaster crouches, lying in wait for him.

The locusts beat their way out of the soil, and
settle upon his fields, and he and his children
starve.

The Yellow River dwindles away to’ a mere trickle
in China, and all the terraces of rice and corn

"Nothing is more steadying and uplifting
than the power of music. BeautyI truth,
and goodness are the ultimates of life.
and they must be maintained. Music re-
enforces us with values which are invisi-

ble and eternal."—Dt. Ralph W. Sock-
man in The Etude Music Magazine.

 
  
   
  
    
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  

wither and shrivel until millions die, or t

into other corners of the land.

The rains do not fall in their seasons, and all ‘
labor he has put into seedtime, and into
ploughing, prove to have been for naught.

The past has been a perpetual struggle, with
elements, with the indifferences of the i.
with other forms of the life that vie with '
and fully as often with his own fellows,
would rob him of all he had slaved to acqui -

Few and brief have been the times and the u
where men could rest upon their arms,
When they could .fill their granaries, and .

at the morrow!

Few and brief have been the times when '
could turn from their toil to other things,
To learn to read and write,

To answer the crowding questions that
their souls,

To fashion things that would combine b
with use,

To strive, as in Athens '
harmonious souls in ’
fect bodies.

And yet, all along their co
men have sought this.

In the Dordogne are
caves, upon the walls
which men drew the
mals, as they saw them
There may have been the purpose of magi:

prospering their hunting in them, but 5
there is. also joy in beauty, the percept'
the perfection of form of an antelope, a
rhinoceros, a buffalo, a bear.

This very summer I beheld some of the ar
ological remains of Mexico—the pyramids
the temples, the tombs and the ornament.
by the Toltecs and the Aztecs, the Zapotecs
the Mixtecs.

One did not have to be deeply percipient to u
stand that all these testified not only to
religious preoccupations,

To the might of their medicine men,

But also, consciously perhaps as by-products,
unconsciously surely of fully as much import
To their love of beauty,

To the joy of building,

To the restfulness of a design that carries
eye in rhythm across space,

To that creation which so freely and well r
gles with recreation.

Work is one of the greatest of goods.

RECREATION AND SPIRITUJL POWER [N WARTIME 545

The first "
chapters of . "1"?
Genesis are '

w 1‘ o n g

when they
depict agri—
culture as a
curse, put
uponAdam
for his dis—
obedience. /'
But work.
a l o n e -—-
work that
is not free,
work that
e n d s i n
monotony,
work that
does not
employ the
full man,

That makes no demands upon
his aesthetic sense, that does
not make him feel that he is giving of himself, that
has not in it the principle of growth,
That work can be barren and compounded only
of drudgery.

One of the greatest aims of life is to free man from
the need of work like this,

To reduce it to the lowest possible minimum,
To increase the leisure not of the privileged few,
but of the underprivileged many,

To throw open the doors for work that shall be
on the basis of a free choice, that shall aim in
the direction of beauty, truth, and goodness.

It is the anomaly of our time that these two wars
came, just when this aim seemed possible of
achievement in the nations of the West.

Surely one of the great ironies of history!

One might make an argument concerning this war,
based upon mere economic necessity, the birth
rate in Germany, or Japan,

iut it would not come near the heart of the
trouble; it would, as so often we do, mistake the
part for the whole, the ObVl-
ous for the real! .

It is not my purpose this eve—
ning to analyze the deeper
causes of the War,

But merely to point out the
irony of its timing.

This is no world where the

 

"In the summer I try to find refuge
in some place of peace and beauty."

"History reveals that for ages men have

been yearning. struggling. for free time
-—-time they could call their own: time
free from intolerable yokes; time in
which to be more and do more to satisfy
inner cravings; time to 'invite their
souls."'—Eugene T. Lies in How
You Can Make Democracy Work.

Conquista-
dor should
be at home.
It is not an
age. which
is a good
m i s e — e n -
scene for
the task of
brutal, em-
pire-build—
ing.
Peoples do
not live by
oppressing
a n d e x -
ploiting the
weak,by
enslaving
the Slavs,
by devising
mad theo-
ries about the Herrenvolk.

It is a time when men, had
they grown as much in wisdom as they have in

strength, might have turned to other ends, other
quests.

In most lands less than a quarter of the population
had to devote itself to agriculture—to feed all
the rest.

And scientists were predicting that even this
proportion would soon suffer drastic decrease.

\l'e had not yet learned how to use the productive
power we had acquired.

Some of the estimates may have been hyperbolic.

But careful studies, like those of the Brookings
Institute, showed that it was possible to reduce
the hours of all men,

Maintaina high standard of living,
And bestow upon men the leisure time needed
for recreation, for education, for growth.

But I think we can go much farther than this.

Not only was this possible, is still possible,
It is also one of the things for which we are
fighting.

Our foes deny the right of
man to grow. I
For most of their fellow men,
they snarl their creed that
they are subhuman, that
they belong to species which
cannot learn, cannot under-

546 RECREATION AND SPIRITUAL POWER IN WARTIME

stand, cannot create, as can the Nordic.

They want an economy of masters and slaves, of
medieval barons and their varlets, of the few
who en joy and the many who drone.

They conceive of society as a gigantic hive of bees
in which they are queen bees and warriors, all
others the workers, the sexless drones.

\Ve give our allegiance to the democratic creed
which believes in the equality of all men—not in
their possession of equal gifts of body, heart or
mind; but in their equality before the Law, their
equality before God, their equal right to live, to
learn, to grow.

Their aim is to make life narrower, more circum-
scribed for men; and they care not what pain.
what martyrdom comes to the myriads of the
vanquished in the process.

Ours is to make life wider, less circumscribed; to
find new ways of releasing the power that is in
men, new ways of freeing
them from pain, of releas-
ing them not only from the
martyrdom which men in-
flict, but also from the
martyrdom of their own
weakness and ignorance.

How profoundly all this is re—
lated to the exigencies of
this hour, let me indicate by
another illustration.

Education was one of the
dogmas of the liberal revo-
lution—in America, in the writings of Jefferson
and Paine especially, and in France, in the
speeches of Carnot in the first French Assembly,
and in- some of Napoleon’s first laws.

Patently, free suffrage demanded men who could
exercise the right of the ballot.

It called for a free press to inform them, for free
schools to instruct them.

To the fathers of the Revolution, once the road
had been cleared, once men were permitted to
travel it, progress was sure!

Benjamin Kidd, in “The Science of Power,”
showed how a whole nation could be remade by
education in a single generation.

Germany, after the Franco-Prussian “far, the

Germany of Bismarck and von Moltke was his
illustration.

The hope was destined to speedy disillusionment.
Education, alone, is not enough—

That is, education without regard to aims and
methods.

"We hear much, and you will hear much
more. about those precious freedoms—
the freedom of speech.the freedom of the
press, the freedom of worship. But how
necessary is the democratic way of life to
the preservation of the freedom of the
imagination! We want the right to dream
and the right to translate ideals into
action." — Grove Patterson in Think.

 

    
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
 
  
  

It is not only possible to have a nation, equi
with all the latest knowledge, and yet a. pe
as susceptible to ill-regulated passions, to
tional delusions of the fiercest and most r
rosive kind.

Our day displays the actuality—the depr .

fact!

There is a new task before the democracies
second step in the process.

What kind of education must be given to

stow self-criticism upon men, to give them

sure impulse toward mercy, and to make t

more immune to these epidemics of ferocity,

negation, of self-destruction?

Unless I err, the answer to this epochal question
a question which will have to be asked after .
War—is to be- found in several directions.
Education must touch the whole child—not m'
only, but the heart as well. It must be integra
with all life———in the r.
tion of its tendency
pigeon-hole ; in the impr
sion it makes that kn
edge is an instrument rat
than an obligation.

But, above all, education 1
be coordinated with a I
gram of recreation
shall be conceived in
senses of which I have C
speaking all through w

- I have said.

Society must give men leisure, but also teach t
how to employ it.

It must use the arts, physical culture, accordin
the old Greek ideal, to create harmonious, '
grated personalities.

By enriching life, by deepening the emotions
must give men riper judgment, deeper, war
selves, by which to live and act.

Recreation is a large part of the problem
creation.

The problem of the creation of a good societ
The exciting task of the new world that is yet to
In one of the best passages of his wonderful n

“The Magic Mountain,” a diagnosis of Eu r

before the last War, Thomas Mann has his

tral character, Hans Castorp, sink in weari
in the snow, upon a skiing trip in the Alps.

Before what may be the last sleep sinks upon
he beholds vision—in contrast with all the fe \

ish unrest of the tubercular sanitarium in wh
he has been.

(Continual on page 586)

 

HE WHIR of the old spinning wheel is heard
Tagain in the historic Littlepage Mansion of

Charleston,VV est Virginia. Echoes of children’s
laughter, the hum of activity and interest—all the
sounds of joyous living fill the spacious rooms.
Once again a feeling of general well-being perme-
ates the old home where four generations of Lit-
tlepages entertained their families, friends and
neighbors.

Built over a hundred years ago, the Littlepage
Mansion was for many years the center of com-
munity life. There is a Civil War story told about
the old mansion and its famed mistress, Rebecca
Littlepage, the gallant southern woman who defied
General Wise when he demanded the use of her
home for ofiicers’ headquarters. “Under no cir-
cumstances will I give up my home,” she is sup-
posed to have said. “You, sir, will leave the
premises.”

Whereupon the general gave his soldiers the
order to blow off the roof over the head of the
d‘eliant woman standing in the doorway with her
children gathered about her. The soldier were re-
portedly court-martialed for disobeying orders, but
the Littlepage home was saved. And it stands to-
day, like a grand old personage, presiding over a
new community.

When the site was selected for the Littlepage
Terrace Housing Development, a United States
Housing Authority Aided
Low Rent Housing Proj-
ect (now Federal Public
Housing Authority), the
Charleston Housing Au-
thority decided to preserve
the gray stone mansion, a
landmark of the commu-

"All defense housing agencies have agreed to
set aside in every new housing development a
minimum of space for children to play. Hence-
forth they will also spend some money in
every proiect in putting up a building where
people may practice that beautiful and peace-
ful art of community life."—M ark M cCloskey.

An Old Mansion

and a

New Community

By MARGUERITE MEEKS

Proiect Services Adviser
Region III
Federal Public Housing Authority

nity, for use as a community center and manage-
ment office. The building was renovated and fur-
nished in keeping with the Early American period.

Three rooms were reserved for the ofiice, nine
were opened for recreation. These latter include a
large social hall or ballroom, two club rooms, a'
kitchen with adoining room for cooking classes, a
photography and dark room, a library, and a craft
shop.

Once each week the neighborhood gathers for
square dancing in the ballroom. Socials and bene-
fits of various types also take place here. A record
player, radio, piano, and community string and
jam bands provide music for dancing and enter-
tainment. Small groups gather around the crack-
ling lires in the club rooms to sing, study, work or
play. Some prefer to relax in an easy chair before
the open fire in the snug little library which is
served by a county bookmobile.

Perhaps the greatest contribution of the mansion
today’ is not the opportunities for new interests
which it provides but the old crafts which it pre-
serves. The whir of the old spinning wheels and
the sound of many looms can be heard issuing
from the third floor at any hour of the day.
Through the cooperation of the Charleston Local
Housing Authority and the Virginia Department
of Vocational Education, weaving and spinning

classes, taught by Miss Lucy Quarrier, are open
to the city and surround-

ing countryside.

Two antique spinning
wheels and twenty-six
looms, ranging from a 500
pound, 120-year-old loom
to very small modern

(Continued on page 594)
547

What I Acquired at Play

LAY IS om: of the odd-
P est of all our human ac-

tivities. It bakes no
puddings, butters no pars-
nips, and adds nothing to
the family assets. But it is
one of the greatest of the
nurturing forces of group-life, and it contributes
to health and sanity and joy to an almost unparal—
leled degree. It depends on surplus energies. N o
surplus energy, no play. The German children
who were deprived of proper food by the blockade
in 1917-18 lost the power to play. They did not
go out of school at recess time, or, if they did,
they leaned up against the school-house and waited
listlessly for the bell to ring to call them in. Play
is an overplus, a gratuitous addition to life—some-
thing thrown in, like beauty, as a free gift to life.
N 0 one expects to extract permanent returns from
play; to make it stand and deliver a grist. Play is
just play. It is an end in itself, its own excuse for
being.

But I am concerned to point out how it minis-
tered to my inner being, how it contributed to the
making of my personality—my inner and eternal
me. In any case, it was implicit education, not
explicit or premeditated. It gave direction to im-
portant habits. It formed significant tendencies.
It fed the subsconscious, or the unconscious, rather
than furnished overt assets to be cashed in. Every-
body who played with me in my early youth is
gone from the earth, and I alone am left, like
Job’s reporters, to tell about it. The first one to
go was a boy named Charlie, with whom I learned
to play croquet where the community church now
stands. He was one of my first boyish affections;
always a swimming companion, at the stage when
we swam with a board underneath to give assur—
ance. Then one day he suddenly died of some
swift illness, now unknown to me. It was the first
death I remember of anyone
for whom I cared. In fact it
was the first time death
really meant death. Here
was a boy with whom I
played every day, who would
never play with me again.
I went with many other boys

548

By RUFUS M. JONES

An eminent Quaker scholar and
philosopher writes of happy

days as "a small town boy"

. as I was. I need hardly add that that idea origin

This chapter from Rufus Jones' autobi-
ography, A Small Town Boy, is re-
printed by permission of The Macmillan
Company. publishers. Dr. Jones was chair-
man of the Department of Philosophy at
Haverford College for many years and is
lmown internationally for his work with
the American Friends Service Committee.

  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  

to the funeral—the earli
one I remember—-—I sa “
Charlie for the last ti
perfectly still, very wh'
and lying embedded in H
ers, whose fragrant sn
still recurs to me at o

moments and brings back with it the white face r
my lost boy friend. I can still see across the yea
the little jacket he wore.

The earliest and the most important member a
my play-group was the son of our nearest nei
bor, whose Mother was my Mother’s dear
friend and companion. My first memory of him
when I was four, and from that time until I we
away to school at sixteen, we were almost c
stantly together on play occasions. The next on
important member of the group was Charli
brother, who was a year older than Charlie a
just my age. He was strong and powerfully bu'
full of vigor, alert, fertile in suggestions and alw
the same good fellow, We wrestled together
great deal, as healthy boys do, and we were ab
equal in such contests, but it was always frien
“fighting” and never attended with anger. I
not remember one single instance of a break
friendship with either of these boys. There
ten or twelve others who could usually be coun
on to form a play-group—I do not like to
“gang”—-—but there were no others quite so e
tial as these two indispensables I have mention

The early years from four on are rather '
and shadowy now. Somewhere in that dim e
period we all learned to swim, to paddle, to
and to skate, and of course to coast on improv'
sleds was a feature of winter life. I taught
nearest neighbor playmate to say “thee” and “t
so that he could go to heaven with me in ca
(lied, even though he was not a Quaker by a

wholly with my little c
ish mind and had no
k couragement from
family, but I undoubt
(lid think at a very early 7
that God took peculiar i
light in hearing us say “th
and “thou” and “thy,” f

PVHAT I ACQUIRED AT PLAY 549

it was the language everybody used in prayer to
Him. I supposed it was the language of heaven.
We had to drive our cattle—cows and steers and
oxen—-—every morning a long way round, through
the village and up the Belfast road to pasture,
and back again at night. The boys early formed
the custom of joining me on this diurnal expedi—
tion. We soon had a great variety of incentives to
speed the cattle on their trek back and forth, We
created darts and slings and sling-shots and bows
and arrows, by which we hastened the slowly
moving herd, inclined too often to feed by the
roadside. In potato ball time we used to fasten a
potato-ball on the end of a limber stick, or withe,
and we could hurl it with vigor and accuracy to
wake up a dilatory cow. It was a noisy process,
bringing home the cattle, but it was great fun and
a popular sport.

In an evil hour I besought my father to teach
me how to milk. It looked like fun as I watched
him do it, and I wanted to master the trick. He
met me more than half way and took advantage of
my enthusiasm. The moment I acquired the skill,
I was caught. From being fun, it quickly became
required duty. Instead of going off with a rush as
,soon as the cows were “corralled,” I found myself
conscripted to sit 011 a stool and till a ten quart
pail. It became rapidly a bore. A recent cartoon
in Punch showed a farmer boy milking, and a
militant woman leaning over the fence, say-
ing in fierce tones: “\Vhy aren’t you at the
front?” And the
‘milker calmly said:
“ ’Cause there ain’t
no milk at that end.”
I knew very early
which “end” to as-
sault for results, and
I have never forgot-
ten how to milk, any
more than I have how
to swim. A few years
ago I spent ten days
in a “Retreat” on the
sacred mountain in
China, “Taishan,”
where we had seven
goats for our milk
supply. A mission-
ary’s wife and I did
the milking, and,
though I had never
milked a goat before

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

and had not milked a cow for many years, the milk
streamed forth at my first grip.

My group of boys who had assisted in the trek
from the pasture lined up on the top rail of the
barnyard fence and waited as a patient group until
I was free and could join them in the next expedi-
tion, which in summer was pretty sure to be a
swim at the old pine stump on our shore. Most of
the boys I regularly played with were not farmers’
sons, as I was, but enjoyed a much wider area of
freedom than I did, and they were almost always
ready to help me finish a task so that when it was
done I could join them in play, for which I was
never too tired. In threshing time, which was the
most miserable of all our recurrent tasks, there
would almost always be a bevy of boys milling
around, pitching down oats, or taking away straw
at the tail of the machine, hurrying on the dis-
agreeable job, so that I could get away so much
earlier for some play scheme which we had con-
cocted. They would have “whitewashed the fence,”
as Tom Sawyer’s boys did, if it would have re—
leased me from toil for some mild escapade with
them. When the boys appeared in solid formation
father always knew that he was soon going to
“lose” me to the majority party. There is a story
of a small boy who was weeping piteously and
could not be comforted. He was accosted by an-
other boy who said: “W hat’s the matter with you?

". . . at a spot where an echo repeats itself four times over.
and where there is an almost unsurpassed sylvan beauty."

I o

 

550 WHAT I ACQUIRED AT PLAY

What are you crying like that for ?” “My dog has
been run over and killed; boohoo. I can’t bear it.
He was such a dear; boohoo.” “I don’t see why
you make such a fuss over a dog,” the second boy
said. “My grandfather has just died, but you don’t
see me wailing and howling over it, do you ?” “I
know,” said the broken-hearted boy, “but you
didn’t raise your grandfather from a pup.” That
is just the secret. \Ve boys had come up from the
roots in the soil. We all “belonged.” We were
raised here from “a pup,” and the land and the
wind and the lake were in our blood. \Ve were as
much a part of it all as was the sky over us.

The “out of doors” sport that most often held
the stage was what we called “guard’s clear.” It
is a game of many names in many lands and it is
probably as old as Methuselah’s boys, but it is or
was one of the best games ever invented for a
rainy day. On wet occasions we always “invaded”
a barn, while on summer evenings we played it
around an uninhabited set of rambling buildings,
near the grocery store. The procedure was to
“count out,” which I by the choice of the boys
always did. That settled who would be “It” for
the first round. The unfortunate boy who was
“It” stood at the goal, always pronounced “gool,”
where stood the "guard," which was a long stick
placed slanting-wise
against the wall. HIS
first function was to
count a hundred slowly
and fairly. While he was
“counting” the other
boys hid. Then he who
was “It” began his
search for the hiders.
As fast as he found
them they came and
lined up at the “gool.”
Meantime while the
goal-keeper was away on
a hunt for more boys,
some uncaught boy
would break away from
his hiding, touch the
goal, seize the “guard”
and throw it or kick it
as far as ever he could.
Then-val] the boys who
had bee'n caught up to
that time were “free,”
could hide .again, and
the poor Sisyphus had

 

"We were absolutely at home . . .
through the ice. in the woods. or in the snow."

  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
    
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
  

to begin all over. The experts knew all the hiding
places and took no chances of seeking for distant'
“caches” until all the near ones had been cleared,
but a newcomer, less an fait with the lie of the
land, might be “It” for hours, in fact for an entire
evening. Our own barn was an admirable place
for this game. The big haymows had a way of
settling under the great beams, and one who kne '
these tunnels could make remarkable get-aways.
Then the barn had a mysterious cellar with a
curious exit up through the haymow, so that one
moment you were in the cellar, and then as quick
as you could say Jack Robinson, you were on top
of the haymow or under a beam in the heart of t :
haymow. We always had early harvest apple-
hidden in pockets under these beams, which made
them still more advantageous as hiding places for
those who were in the secret.

But “Uncle VVilliam’s” barn was even better
than ours. It was the most complicated barn in
ten counties. It had been built, like the Englis
Constitution, to meet the growing needs of ne
occasions. There were many levels, unexpecte
corners, sheds, lean-tos, dark holes, forgottei
pockets, tie-ups, sheep-pens, scaffolds, stairways
and numerous ladders. T he boy who got chosei
as hrst guard-keeper on a rainy day in that bar
was just out of luck, fo
he was likely to be sti
at it when noon dinnei
time came. But th
counting out — “eeny
meeny, miney, mo”
was fairly done, a .
when a boy was chos
to be “It” he took 11'
late calmly and stuck '
out until success set hi
free in a legitimate w
and laid the new burd
on the first one of t
hiders caught who to
the next turn. “Unc
\Villiam’s” barn w -
long ago laid low '
ashes, and our barn ble
down in a hurrican
and “the uninhabitc
house” where we play
evenings is now a happ
home, and nobody nm
plays “guard’s clear.”
am glad I was a boy a

Print by Cedae Harmon

on the ice or

 WHAT I ACQUIRED AT PLAY 551

long time ago! We had another
game which we called “playing
-'truck.” It was something like
“hockey,” only it was played
with a stout truck, sawed from
a birch log, about a foot in di-
ameter, instead of a ball. The
truck was rolled with powerful
muscular force toward the opposing side, and it
could be returned and forwarded toward the
enemy’s goal only so long as it was kept in rolling
position. It was played with heavy shinny-sticks
and it was about as dangerous as football—but a
game with a thrill to it. Now it also is out—moded.

I realize now in retrospect, though I did not
sense it at the time, that the boys treated me as
their leader. They always came for me and waited
for me until I was “free” to go, and helped to get
me “free.” They waited for consultation before
deciding on the program for the day or the eve-
ning. They invariably asked me to “count out.”
And they looked to me for guiding direction or
for decisive. suggestion. But I was quite uncon—
scious that I was their “leader,” and I think that
they were equally unconscious of it. It was a com—
plete democracy. We were all equals. We acted as
a unified group. We did not quarrel; we played
with a corporate harmony, as would be the case
with a brass band, but they looked to me as
“leader,” though I was never elected to the posi—
tion, and neither the boys nor I would have liked
the term, if anybody had suggested it. We were
'naive. We were in the happy stage before self-
consciousness or ambition comes into play to dis-
turb the course of events. Our processes were im-
plicit rather than explicit, and that is one sufficient
reason why we were so happy together.

This mutual fellowship of ours had a profound
influence on our health of mind. We did things
and said things and heard things that were not
always wise or nice. We were the usual run of
boys. But in the main we were living, finding
ourselves, throbbing with activity, with discovery.
We were unconsciously happy. There was an ele-
ment of inspiration in what we did, a flare of radi—
ant energy. I was confronted
with many physical handicaps
as a boy and might easily have
been a victim of disease, but this
health of mind, this free and
joyous group action, had a pow—
erful effect on my body and
helped to lay the foundations of

"Youth is not a time of life—it is
a state of mind. . . . Whether
seventy or sixteenI there is in every
being's heart the love of wonderI
. . . the undaunted challenge of
eventsI the unfailing. childlike appe-
tite for what next."—Anonymous.

"There are certain habits of fair
play. respect for the rights of
others. defense of one's own rights.
that must be learned on the play-
ing field orin association with other

children."—Dr. Edwin G. Con-
klin in an address before the N.E.A.

physical strength and of an op-
timistic outlook on life, which
was better than an inherited
fortune, which obviously I did
not have! This fellowship did
much to cultivate a spirit of dar-
ing, of adventure, of courage.
We walked high beams with
balance and steady head. We climbed perilous
roofs and walked the ridgepoles. We visited In-
dian camps in the woods and bought bows and
arrows of real Indians, in real tents, in real woods.
We dived off bridges into brooks with our clothes
and boots on, to get ready for an emergency, if we
should capsize when sailing, or in a canoe. We
went out sailing on cakes of ice, when the “break
up” of the lake came, after the marvelous vernal
equinox. We ventured out on thin ice in the early-
freeze-up of the lake, daring one another to see
who could carry a stone the farthest out on the
ticklish bending ice, leaving it where we reached
the limit of our dare, and challenging the next boy
to outdo our daring. Eventually a limit was
reached, and in the end a boy who overdid broke
through, fell in and found his way back, after
breaking ice, to safety and got home dripping wet
with ice-water—but something of a hero to the
boys, though usually not to his “valet,” who being
interpreted was his mother. We were absolutely
at home on the water, in the water, on the ice or
through the ice, in the woods, or in the snow.
There were few challenges which we did not accept.

A rumor was circulated that “pirates” from
Waterville were violating the law by using nets to
catch fish in great quantities for market. There
was danger that the lake would be combed of fish.
The nets were pulled at night and no one knew
where they were. We organized a flotilla of boats,
each one supplied with a grapnel, and we spread
out in wide formation to sweep the lake as we
rowed lengthwise of it. We went first to the “Out-
let,” about four miles, with no results. We came
back through the “Narrows,” where the water was
deepest, with no victims. Then we started north
with our grapnels. Everything was peaceful until
we got in sight of the uppermost
island when we saw two men,
who had spied us and fathomed
our intent, pulling up nets for
dear life, and trying to make an
escape before we could reach
them. We had revolvers and
old muskets and we began firing,

552 WHAT I ACQUIRED AT PLAY

but, of course, in the air or on the water where we
were sure not to hit them. They quite naturally
took immense fright. rolled up their nets which
were stretched entirely across the lake to both
shores from the island, \Ve gained on them and
caught them as they pulled to the shore with their
boat full of nets. They were completely scared as
the array of boys surrounded them, and they
promised us never to come back to the lake, if we
would let them go unharmed, which we gener-
ously did, and then we rowed home with a sense
of victory in our tired bodies. There have been
no "pirates" on the lake since.

About two miles up the lake there was a beauti-
ful island named “Round Island,” alias “Birch
Island.” It had in early times been believed to
contain gold, and it was dug over by “prospectors”
. before the birch trees covered it. The “gold” was
found in large quantities, but it proved to be
“pyrites,” that is “fool’s gold,” and no one made a
fortune from it. There grew
up in my time a tradition
that nobody owned it, and
that if we slept on it one
night a year for fifteen con-
secutive years—and proved
our claim—we should own
it as ours by “squatter
rights.” We might easily
have discovered that it was
properly owned, as I have done in later life—by a
search in the County Record Office in Augusta.
but that is not a boy’s way. He accepts and trusts
the tradition and proceeds to make good his claim.
It was an admirable place for evening sweet corn
roasts. Sweet corn abounded within easy distance;
so did wood for the fire and stones for the stove on
the island itself. Hemlock boughs and a warm
blanket were all that was needed for the night—
and one “squatter” claim was tallied.

Even better was a visit to Bradley’s Island,
where there was a bowling alley, and we all knew
how to bowl and how to set up pins. Best of all,
however, was a trip to Indian Heart. This was a
rock on a beautiful wooded point, on the face of
which the Abenaki Indians had cut a large heart
as a mysterious symbol, the key to which was lost.
There is the heart unmistakably, gouged out with
their stone tools, at a Spot where an echo repeats
itself four times over, and where there is an almost
unsurpassed sylvan beauty. It was our favorite
resort on the lake. Thither we went in as many
boats as we could command, and ate a vast amount

"Boys do not worry very much about such
magnificent abstractions as truth and
beauty and democracy and iustice. They
unmask swindlers, sweep pirates from the
Spanish Main, round up cattle rustlers with
Pecos Bill, lie on their backs under an apple
tree and watch the sparrows make nests in

the blossoming boughs."-——Paul V. M cN utt.

'into the deep, and possibly carry some unwar

   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
  
    
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

of hot fish chowder cooked on a crane over a
in a stove of stones. The mother of one of I
boys—the best fish-chowder creator the hu
race has yet known, according to our united ju
ment—always went with us to produce the «
licious dinner. While this dear woman was pr
paring the perch-chowder we withdrew to a
cluded glen and had a swim, which put us in ii
trim for the best dinner the world has seen. T a
may be better things in some other world, but '
this sublunary one there has never been anythii
better than those glorious days at Indian Hear
They can never come back!

In the winter we had three top joys. 1 shou
put first breaking roads through the snowdrif
It was done with the old-fashioned “heater,” whi
was a flatiron shaped snowplow-—-hence the nai
“heater.” It was drawn by from four to six yok
of oxen, and all the boys of my group would p'
on for ballast. We wore “long-legged” boots ma
by Elijah Elwood’s fath
There were no “sweater
then, but, we were w
bundled up for below 2
weather. We helped w'
the shoveling when we cal
to a jumbo drift, and th
the “chief” of the snowpl
would call out, “every n
to his ox and every ox r
his bow. Give one almighty pull,” and we wo
plunge through the huge drift with “tons of boy
holding down the “heater.” Now it is all d01
with a tractor or a “caterpillar,” and no b0)
What a drop! The next best fun was skating .
the lake with a pine-stump fire at night. T
whole region had once been a vast forest of v
erable pines. When it was “cleared” the roots I
the pine stumps had been cut around and
stumps pulled out by “strings” of oxen, and eit
built into fences— “bull-strong, pig-tight
sheep-high”——or dumped along the shore in t
gled piles. The roots were full of pitch, and ti
with its all consuming power had during the ye
only dried them, with no touch or blight of r
They were plainly enough designed for a skat
fire. It was a day’s job to pull them out of
tangled pile, push them to the desired spot .
build the pyramid. It could not be done until t
ice was very thick—at least twelve inches—0th
wise the ice would melt and plunge the pyra

boys down into the melted cavity with it. What a

  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
  

joy it was in the evening to
skate and play what we
alled “coram” around a fire
S majestic as a house on
re, though of three times
e length of endurance of
burning building. One
ever knew when to go
ome on such evenings.
The other winter sport,
utdoors, was of course
oasting. There were no
kis, no toboggans, no
ouble-ru'nners, no pull-
opes to bring you back after the descent. But we
ad sleds of a kind and, to make the affair “cor-
orate,” we took a “pung,” a large family sleigh,
(I put a skillful boy on a sled between the shafts
r thills to steer it. We could load ten or fifteen
oys into the “pung,” and if there was a crust we
ould go for a mile at an unbelievable Speed. Our
st “slide” was down a hill in front of the “nar-
rows,” where we struck the lake at a fearful pace,
nd on good ice we could go all the way—more
than a mile—to Bradley’s Island. Then we walked
back!

There were plenty of other things to do in the
winter—tunnel through drifts, make caves in the
snow, build bridges out of snow blocks, go lum-
bering in the woods, etc., but nothing quite matched
these three sports. In the
early spring we had a wa-
ter-wheel which a few of us
had made “together. We
dammed a small brook and
produced water power, which
turned the water wheel. This
was connected by a belt with
a home-made circular saw
that would actually saw a
potato in two, though it
balked at more solid sub-
stances. But the highest
moment in the Spring, after
tapping maples, was going
“pickerelling.” This always
happened when the ice be-
gan to break up around the
shore, about the time that
neighbor Noah Jones made
his last dangerous trip

across the lake on the ice,
jumping his horse on and

"Boyhood's habit and love of games tends
to persist through life and directly to en-
rich social relations. while relieving duty's
routine. From such games we may carry a
sense of the value not only of sportive-
ness but of a richer quality that does
much to mellow and dignity the inevitable
rivalries of life. For this quality we have
no abstract noun but we know pretty well
what we mean in saying 'he p y

game.‘ "—Petcy Hughes in The Journal
of Health and Physical Education.

 

  

WHAT I ACQUIRED AT PLAY 553

 

off at the Shores. We had an
iron fire basket which we
Filled with pitch-pine knots
from the old stumps. It was
hung out over the water at
the end of the boat, and one
boy lay on his stomach at
the front end, near the light,
while two boys at the other
end silently paddled the
boat in among the coves.
The pickerel lay unmoving
like great sticks, dazzled by
the light. It took some skill,
but not too much, to plant a three-pronged spear
in the neck of the mute pickerel and to bring him
into the boat for another boy to dislodge. It was
obviously cruel Sport, though (the cruelty did not
occur to our minds, bent as we were on the feast
that was to follow. “Smelting” and “suckering”
came about the same time, soon after the ice went
out of our two brooks. One of these brooks—the
one we called “Tannery Brook”—already referred
to—was an endless resource for uS boys. We
learned to row there. At its mouth was a beauti—
ful “sandy bottom” for wading and early swim-
ming, before the sense of danger was eliminated.
Here we iished when we had no boat, and here we
gathered "pollywogs” and turtles. I always won-
dered where the brook came from. Like Alf, the
‘ sacred river,'it “ran through
caverns measureless to
man.” Nobody that we knew
had ever explored its source
and origin. It was mysteri-
ous as the Ganges or the
Amazon. I organized an ex-'
ploring party, and we traced
the brook through many
pastures and alder clumps
on into the woods. It bent
and wound with many
curves in among the ancient
trees. There were thickets
of wild blackberries and
ground junipers, and finally
we found its source in a
vast “bog,” which we now
know has underneath it a
submerged lake forty feet in
depth, and once, ages ago,

this brook of ours, now
(Continued on page 592)

“l

   

Print by Gedge Harmon

Three Cheers for the Red,White and Blue

By LOUISE PRICE BELL

HETHER you want to get
w your neighbors, friends,

relatives, or members of
your club together for a jolly
good time, have the affair in
honor of the grandest flag in
the world. Every red-blooded
American will warm up to the
idea and—if you plan games
that are informative—they’ll all go home wiser and
better-informed citizens of their beloved country—
and have had lots of fun getting informed!

If you want to make an extra-special event of
it, send invitations written on air mail stationery
because of its proper color scheme in setting the
patriotic note of your party. On it write in red

ink something like this:
Yankee Doodle went to town
A-riding on a pony,
He was a true American
And not a flimsy phoney.

Now, how you come to our house
\Ve really do not care;
But a patriotic stunt will be your “pass”
\Vhen once you do get there!
Friday Night—8 o’clock ALBERTA AND Douc.

These required stunts will
be amusing ice-breakers, if you
need any such start. For no
one should be allowed

to join the group as- I,

sembled until he has
given a stunt, prefera-
bly before the ones who
have arrived ahead of
him. (Serves the late
arrivals right for being
late!)

If you ask your friends
for the evening, serve
bright red cranberry
punch, sweetened, at
least in part, with honey,
and accompanied by
white-iced cup cakes,
from which tiny silk
flags wave amast. You’ll
probably have to save

a little extra sugar from
the family’s rations for

554

This material. reprinted from Better
Homes and Gardens Magazine. is a
chapter from Parties in Wartime,

copyrighted I943, Fleming H. Revell

Company. $|.50. The book will be
ready for distribution this month.

-A few rousing songs will end your
red-white-and-blue party with a bang!

 

Courtesy Orlando, Florida, Service Men’s Club

  
   
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
       

this special occasion, but t
little cakes are worth it,
remember, extra egg wh
will stretch the icing.

If you prefer to serve an i
formal supper or dinner, co
the table with a red cloth,
blue willowware dishes a
glassware (or the nearest
to these you possess) and blue and white pa z:
napkins. Or use a white cloth, alternate red
and blue paper napkins, blue china, and cherr
red glassware, For a centerpiece use a blue bo
piled high with red apples, or one holding Ame
can flags erect by means of a perforated flo "
holder, with the center flag-stick the longest a
others the correct length to make an artistic efle
Flank the centerpiece with three-branch cand
bra holding red, white and blue candles. Or, if y
have a large candelabra, it would be used in t
center, holding tapers of the national colors.

You probably won’t want to spend much l
gadgets for this party, for it is a patriotic par
and it’s patriotic now to be thrifty. But there .
always tiny flags and flag stickers obtainable whi
cost very little. Put shield w
flag stickers on the tumble
particularly if these are neith
red nor blue. At ‘
plate have tiny silk fl
inserted in white mar
mallows that have -.
fastened to blue c
with a dab of glue. *1
the cards the gu
names should be w
ten in white. Thus
have favor, place

and table decoration
one.

Cast inhibitions to r
winds when arran
your party table. M
it so American t
your guests will 5
singing “God Bl
America” without .v
even suggesting it. A
the meal couldn’t

THREE CHEERS FOR THE RED, WHITE AND BLUE 555

started off in a
more appropriate
and fitting man-
ner! As to the
food, serve what-
ever you think
your friends will
enjoy. Carry out
the patriotic idea
as far as possible,
but don’t sacri-
fice the tastiness
of the meal for
that idea.

Here are some
game sugges-
tions. As we have
mentioned be-
fore, the very
best prizes would
be War Stamps.
But if you do
wish to have a

 

little variety, give prizes that are really useful. Refreshments will be a highlight of this patriotic
Flag pins, handkerchiefs, scarfs in proper colors party—especially if You invile the men in service
can be found for the women. Air mail envelopes

and stickers are grand prizes for men or women. 8. What Presidents came from New England?

They can be wrapped in white paper and decorated A- John Adams, John Quincy Adams, Franklin

Pierce, Chester A. Arthur, Calvin Coolidge.

with flag stickers and red ribbon. . . . .
9. What other eitles have been the cap1tal of the United

Patriotic Quiz United States?
. A. New York, Philadelphia, York, Pa.
Pass out Sheets Of paper upon WhICh flag Seals 10. Who was the composer of “Stars and Stripes For-
have been gummed. Tell guests to answer ques- ever”?
tions as you read them, numbering them and sign— A. John Philip Sousa.
ing their names at the bottom. Pass out red-white— 11- HOAW Elan)? Voyages did Columbus make?
' . our.
andtblue penals for the purpose. (The person 12. Where is the original picture, “Spirit of 1776” ?
getting the most correct answers might be re— A. Marblehead, Mass.
warded Wlth a box of these pencils, which makes 13. What colony was named for Queen Elizabeth?
an inexlmnSive favor-) A. Virginia. Elizabeth was called the Virgin
1. How many people signed the Declaration of Inde- Queen.
pendence? 14. Who was the first President to live in the White
A. 56. House?
2. Who were our three martyred presidents? A. Adams.
A. Lincoln, Garfield, McKinley. 15. Who wrote “America”?
3. Name Columbus’ three ships. A. S. F. Smith.
A. Nina, Pinto, Santa Maria. 16. Who wrote “The Red, White and Blue”?
4. Which of the three ships was the largest? A. D. T. Shaw.
A. Santa Maria. 17. Who wrote “Hail, Columbia”?
5. What President wrote a history of the United A. F. Hopkinson.
States in 500 words»? , 18. How many United States senators are there?
A. Coolidge. A. 96—two for each state.
6. Where is the original Star Spangled Banner? 19. How many United States Congressmen are there?
A. Smithsonian Institute. A. 435.
7. What states in the United States are named for our 20. Who wrote “God Bless America”?
Presidents? A. Irving Berlin.

A. Washington is the only one. (Continued on page 588)

What About Games in Wartime?

By MARGUERITE ICKIS

N a MUST EXPECT chil-
dren today to play
at war and at war

games, because children in

many of their play activities
naturally imitate the adult
world about them,” writes

Miss Ethel Kawin, lecturer

in education at the University of Chicago. “It is

futile to try to prevent such war play activities,
but we can and should encourage other more con-
structive forms of play.”

The children themselves have created a new
style of play. They have galloped through the
saga of cowboys and Indians, and are now content
with nothing less than the epic of Commandos.

Many play leaders and teachers recognize the
need for this adaptation of games, believing that
peacetime activities cannot completely satisfy war—
time interests. There are those, however, who still
maintain that play should provide complete escape
into a world of fantasy.

Much may be said for this latter philosophy in
its attempt to protect children from the reality of
war—but a rising tide of thought recognizes the

Every play leader, teacher, and
parent faces this problem today

PART I

Vivid young imaginations will turn this innocent—
loolring snow forl- into a great Russian stronghold 7..

 
   
      
  
    
   
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
    
   

inevitability of some war
games in children’s play.
number of psychological an
educational reasons suppor
this trend:

I. \Var games are a nat
ural outlet for the emotions
Children are well aware o
the war; they see fathers and brothers off for th
service, mothers in war industries or Red Cross
stories and pictures in magazines and newspapers
war scenes in the movies. Children who thu
absorb the mood and pace of the adult world mus
express their emotions, and their natural outlet i.
through play.

Boys, with their quick imaginations, have no
waited for play leaders to direct them. In ever
town and village the cowboy bands and the cop
and robbers have disappeared. In their stead ar
Commandos or guerrillas, marines or fighter pilots

Little girls who once contented themselves witl
playing house now are brave nurses on the battl
front, bandaging wounded soldiers and caring fo
the sick. Or perhaps they’re W AACs or WAVE
or WAFS.

WHATABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME? 557

In England the playing of war games has be-
ome a natural emotional outlet for children, ac—
rding to Eric G. Muggeridge, executive secre-
ry of the Foster Parents’ Plan for. War Chil-
ren in Great Britain. “Just as soon as we dis—
ouraged the games,” he writes, “little secret
aids and invasions began taking place all over the
ouse and in the garden. We therefore felt it would
:- far more desirable to permit the children to
lay their games unhampered and unmolested.”

If war games are prohibited, more detrimental
. tivities than secret invasions of the garden might
esult. Such prohibitions may be a factor in de—
nquency if children turn to law-breaking as an
I tlet for their pent-up emotions.

2. War games satisfy the child’s natural urge to
nitate adults and to hero-worship older brothers
c to war, W hen a small boy captures a foreign
land or convoys his ships across the sea, he feels

at he really belongs to the
rown-up world of today.

3. Many war games are
1erely adaptations of old
ames. Basically, the games
tat children play in war-
'me are the ones they played
1 peacetime, camouflaged
ow with new names and
1ew places. Cowboys have
volved into pilots and In-
ians into Japs, but the es-
ntial idea of hunt and be hunted remains the
. me. The always popular snow fort now becomes

besieged stronghold on the Russian front. Chil-
I rcn build their play around skills, quiet or active.
4 d varying degrees of hazards and thrills. The
' inciple of a game is the same in war or peace;

is merely the surface that takes on the aspect
f war.

4. The educational value of war games should
tot be underestimated. Plato, the Greek phi1050pher
nd teacher, once said education should begin

ith the right direction of children’s sports. The
lays of childhood have a great deal to do with the
naintenance or non-maintenance of laws.

Play leaders and educators today are seeking
pportunities to help children practice democracy
nd leadership with as much spontaneity as possi-
ble. Where better could this be done than in a
small~boys’ Marine Corps? Children will soon
come to respect the natural leader who, instead of
bossing and pushing his troop, leads them with a
spirit of comradeship.

Part II of this article will appear in
the February issue of Recreation when
adaptations of a number of interesting
quiet and social games will be offered.
We hope that any of our readers who
may be working along these lines will
give us the benefit of their experimenta-
tion and comment. This is a subiect of
keen interest to all who work with chil-
dren and calls for careful consideration.

The teamwork of a successful corps must be
perfect, and children will soon learn cooperation.
Each miniature marine will come to respect the
rights and privileges of others, and he will learn
to share the fun and glory by the very pressure of
his cohorts’ candid opinions,.if not by the guidance
of his teachers. .

But why cannot such lessons in cooperation be
taught through other channels than war games?
They can, and undoubtedly they will, but since
war games appear psychologically inevitable at this
time, play leaders will want to capitalize on any
educational possibilities they offer.

5. War games may lead easily and naturally
into constructive activities which might otherwise
remain unexplored. The step from Marine Corps
to Salvage Corps is a short one, and an idle query
about the location of the Solomons may lead into
a fascinating geography lesson.

War and war games in-
volve endless questions of
history, geography, eco-
nomics, and sociology, over
and above the obvious ques-
tion of tactics. Finding the
answers to such questions is
a complete new game, and
certainly a constructive one.

Not Without Reservations

But war games cannot be
recommended without distinct reservations, for
they are potentially dangerous if allowed to run
rampant. Play leaders must keep a wary eye on
four main areas of caution:

First, war play may diverge from its original
purpose of emotional outlet into that area of in-
tensity where the child becomes keyed up and
wildly excited. Agnes E. Benedict, writing in the
N ew Y ork Times, has distinguished between these
two phases: “Release leaves the person released
more calm, more quiet, more ready to concentrate
on the next activity, more relaxed. It does not
leave him wild and excited. The wise teacher who
encourages war play knows when this point is
reached. And at the point she skillfully diverts
the children. In the midst of the wildest battle she
asks firmly what has become of the hospital unit.
And, while doctors and nurses get to work, the
group calms down.”

Second, the educational aspects of war games
should be guided in the right direction—coopera-
tion, not competition; leadership, not dictatorship;

558 IVHAT ABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME?

   
      

TUNNEL CIAUL

Rorg Sunno

Deep Sana PW

Benn TRAP

This obsiacle course is based on “18 ouf- This layouf may be aliered. adapfed. or
door Obsfacle Training Field developed simplified io suif bo s of any age. H’
by ihe Boy Scoufs of America. If will may also serve as a lueprin’r for an im-

challenge fl‘le mos’r ardenf young Commando. provised box - barrel - and — craie course.

   
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  

dividuality, not automatism. Wartime games
ould not simply involve groups of children going
rough specified movements under the orders of
leader. They should encourage individuals to
ombine their talents and exercise their ingenuity
s a team.

Third, wartime games should be selected with
iscretion. Choose games wisely, lest they assume
he destructive proportions of a hurricane!

In general, .use games that develop leadership,
amwork, sportsmanship—games that instill a
esire to win honestly, that demonstrate the rights
nd obligations of members within a group.

Introduce the children to games where they can
it their skill against hazards, as in obstacle courses
nd raiding games. Stress physical fitness wher-
ver possible.

Dress up the games with a touch of newness,
ven if only as adaptations
f old games’.

Naturally, the games
ust fit the age group of
he children so that the
heme is within their scope
f knowledge and reason-

Some children will not
are to play war games at
11. In this case, use no
ompulsion, for war games
: re not justified unless in
nswer to a demand.

The fourth and last reservation concerns the
ostwar era. Just as industry must return to peace-
i ime functions after the war, so recreation must be
repared to adjust itself to postwar conditions.

Recreation leaders will be the logical ones to

irect wartime games into the era of reconstruc-
ion and relief. Children will always want to
atch their skills against obstacles, but instead of
ontinuing their raids on Japanese islands when
he war is over, they may battle their way through
r blizzard with Red Cross supplies for Russia—
' r sail the seas as colonists to Alaska.
But for the present, wartime games are an im-
ortant challenge to recreation leadership. The
' dventuresome Commando and guerrilla spirit
_I ust be guided into the proper channels. Leaders
an analyze the interests of their children and
evise games to suit them. They must find ways
| 0 utilize world affairs and world personalities to
o ring home the principles of true democratic
portsmanship.

  

"What of toys that reflect the war: tanks and
ieeps and anti-aircraft guns and battleships?
It is practically impossible for us to protect
our children from an interest that is upper-
most in the minds of all of us. . . . I doubt the
seriousness of reputed effects upon children
of physical and emotional energy. . . . Parents
ng' should. however, attempt as far as possible to
capitalize on other childhood interests such as
sports and hobbies. and to be sure that these
phases of the child's experiences are well repre-
sented in the toys given him."—Dr. Donald S.

Klaiss in The American Family, Dec. I942.

WHAT ABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME? 559

Adapting the Games

Many old-time games include all the skills and
thrills demanded by children today. They need
only be adapted to new events and new locales in
order to satisfy the desire for up-to-the-minute
games.

Obstacle Course. Since teen-age boys like to pit
their skills against difficulties and hazards, they
will revel in an obstacle course patterned after the
Commando courses at training stations and col-
leges. Each object in the course can be designed
to benefit the runner in some specific way-—
strengthening arm and leg muscles, developing
balance and agility.

But the atmosphere of an obstacle course must
be kept informal if it is to be called recreation.
Boys will keep coming back for more if an atmos-
phere of friendly competition reigns rather than

one of strict discipline. It
was General Douglas Mac-
Arthur who said, “On the
fields of friendly strife are
sown the seeds which in
other years on other fields
will bear the fruits of
victory.”

An obstacle course should
be adaptable to use by
younger boys as well as
the older ones, either by
removing or modifying
some of the obstacles. The
course outlined in the accompanying drawing is
based on the excellent outdoor Obstacle Training
Field developed by the Boy Scouts of America. A
more temporary course, however, may be impro-
vised from old barrels, crates, and planks. The
courses may be either single- or double-tracked,
for individual timing or for regular races.

The fewer rules the better, for the boys will find
challenge enough in the course itself. Most im-
portant rule is that all runners must negotiate all
obstacles successfully. This means replacing any
cross bars knocked off and making a fresh start on
each obstinate obstacle until it is conquered. Like-
wise, if the runner slips off balancing rails or
stepping stones, he must repeat that section of the
course.

Second rule: runners should wear rubber-soled
shoes rather than spiked track shoes. Sneakers are
the best for this kind of running.

For those who will help the boys construct an
obstacle course, a few measurements will be helpful :

560 WHATABOUT GAMES 1N WARTIME.’

The tunnel crawl may be 12
feet long, “5 feet wide, and 2
feet high. The unattached
crossbars must be replaced if
moved by the crawling boy.

A scaling wall may reach 6
to 7% feet in height. It re-
quires especially sturdy supports on the landing
side.

The balancing rails may be as long as 16 feet.
and the scaling ladder as high as 8 feet.

Stakes in the maze could well be at least 4 feet
high and 3 feet apart for safety's sake. Rounded
tops are advisable.

The rope swing is set up over a sand pit. Run-
ners pull their ropes back beyond the starting line
and then swing over the pit.

The tunnels of the culvert crawl are made from
old barrels embedded firmly in a pile of dirt and
sod. Be sure the inside of the barrels are clear of
nails and splinters.

The stepping stones may be varied in height and
size, with the tracks separated by a rail lying on
the ground.

Hand-over—hand rails might range from I 5 to
20 feet in length; the suggested height of the bear
trap is 5 feet.

The deep sand pit may be as deep as 6 feet,
with the width proportionate to the depth. But
don’t let your runners jump over it!

Last obstacle is the vaulting fence, a rail struc-
ture 3% feet high.

These measurements are merely suggested.
Alter them to suit the age and fitness of your
group, keeping safety always in mind. Then send
your boys around the course and watch them vent
their energy with a purpose

Half-Hour Trek. For a variation of the
obstacle course, arm your group with com-
passes and start them off in
a specified direction. They
must trek along that com-
pass point, come hills or
rills, never deviating from
their course until they come
to a prearranged picnic area \
about half an hour away.
The natural obstacles they
bump into will provide
plenty of variety and fun.

Such a trek is naturally
better undertaken in the

Open country or woods,

"Young people want to be doing. The
problem of the director of recrea-
tion is 'What to do about it?‘ Will
the emphasis be 'Taboo—No—
Mustn't do.‘ or 'Come on—here is
something fine that needs doing'?"

 

Modern addition to a snow fort: the barrel
outpost for detecting an "enemy" advance

  
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
    
 
 
   
 
 
  
    

rather than in farmng area
No game justifies a swarm .
twenty children prancin
through Mr. McGregor’s ca
bage patch l

The course should be che
ed beforehand by the leader t
make sure there are no real hazards. Have r
freshments ready and waiting at the ultimate goa
If the group is large, divide it in two section
These sections then start from opposite point
perhaps one going south and the other going nort
heading toward each other until they meet. An
no hot dogs until they dol

Snow Fortress. For centuries past, small boy
have been pelting each other—and passers-by
with snowballs. This year they’ll probably ta
their sport more seriously, building a fortress an
inventing new military tactics.

The highest point on the playground is id
for the fortress, or if the ground is level, build t1
stronghold into the corner of a fence or wall. T
project may be either elaborate or simple, depend
ing on how long the snow promises to remaix
The dimensions vary with the number of childre
a circle 12 feet in diameter or a square with I
foot sides accommodating a group of about te
children.

If the smaller ones roll the balls for the for
older children can build the walls. These mig
taper from 4 feet at the base to 2 feet at the to
A mound of snow in the center of the fortress
will hold the flag staff.

Next step is to elect two commanders, possib
with one or two assistants. In choosing sides t1
commander of the fort has first choice. When tw
thirds of the children are chosen, the remaini
third joins the attacking team, on the ba
that one-third behind fortifications equ
two-thirds outside.

As the attacking a
establishes its camp at '-
30 yards from the fortr
it stacks sleds and fi
buckets with snowballs
carry forward with the .
tack. Meanwhile the d
fenders prepare their pi
of snowballs for each cor —
of their stronghold.

"" '—"- i The action centers arou -
the attempt of the attacki .
team to replace the enemy’

WHAT ABOUT GAMES IN WARTIME? 561

tiag with its own colors on the mound in the fort-
ress. The defenders may win the game by suc—
.essfully repulsing the attackers, perhaps for a
specified length of time.

Any attacking soldier who is pulled into the
'ortress becomes a prisoner of war and cannot
leave until the game ends. Similarly, any soldier
rom the fort may be captured by the oncoming
eam. Prisoners of war may be employed in mak-
'ng snowballs or in repairing damage to fortifica-
. ions, but they cannot be compelled to light against
‘ heir own team.

Since storming a snow fortress is a vigorous
undertaking, the children should be dressed for
the occasion. Snowballs will fly and scrambles
will ensue in the course of the game, but such
sport will use up some of their surplus emotions.

Lookout Post and Periscope.
The latest style in snow fort is
ompletely equipped with a look-
ut post set up in front of the
ortress. Camouliage a barrel in
. snow bank and station a look-
out there to give the signal when
the enemy is coming. Whether
he barrel is horizontal or verti-
cal, leave one end open so a
hild can crawl in and out.

A hand periscope is ideal
- uipment for this lookout post.
With it the sentry can watch the
nemy without being seen him»
self, since he hides inside the
arrel and holds the periscope up. If the periscope
s painted white, it will hardly be noticeable in the
now.

For the body of the periscope use a long rec—
angular cheese box or a long narrow cardboard
)ox. At each end of the box, on opposite sides,
ut a square opening as shown in Figure *1. Two
\ ocket mirrors can then be set opposite the open-
ngs, facing each other, one at the top and one at
he bottom, The view will be reflected from the
op opening down through the body of the peris-
ope and out the bottom opening. (See illustra-
ion.) The lookout watches the bottom mirror and
ees the view from the top opening.

For the best results set both mirrors at 45 de-
.: ree angles. To obtain this angle, move the mirror
round until its two edges rest at equal distances
rom the corner. Then with heavy glue attach a
narrow piece of wood under the bottom edge of
the top mirror; this will act as a ledge on which

 

A Hand Periscope

the mirror rests, face downward. (See Figure 2:)
Hold the top edge tightly in place with adhesive
or scotch tape.

Fit the lower mirror face upward in the bottom
corner. Measure the angle in the same way, glu-
ing the piece of wood on the bottom of the box
this time, Tape the top edge of the mirror as before.

If you wish a periscope-like top as shown in
Figure 3, tape cardboard around three sides of the
opening. The bottom opening is better left un-
covered.

The periscope can be raised through a hole in
the side of the barrel, if the latter is horizontal.
Don’t attach the periscope to the barrel, since the
lookout will have to turn it around to see in all
directions.

This is an example of constructive projects in
the field of war games. Not only
does the builder work with his
hands, he also learns from the
mirrors his first lesson in ele-
mentary physics.

The Prisoner and the Soldiers.
The old game of Hare and Hound
is trimmed with a wartime as-
pect as one boy represents the
escaping prisoner and the re-
maining players are the soldiers
who pursue him.

Instead of the hunter and the
whipper, choose a captain and a
sergeant to take charge of the
soldiers during the chase. The
prisoner carries a supply of sand which he scatters
on the ground as he goes. He agrees not to cross
his path or return home until a certain time; if he
does either, he is considered captured. In turn, the
soldiers are bound to follow the clues implicitly.
They may not take short cuts even if they see the
prisoner.

After the lone prisoner has gone on his way for
about five minutes, the bugler blows his call and
the soldiers start the hunt. The captain, carrying
an American flag, leads the line Indian file over
the trail. The sergeant marches at the rear with

a company flag.

If the captain loses the clue he immediately
shouts, “Lost!” and the sergeant thrusts his Hag
in the ground at the last clue seen. The entire
company walks or runs in a circle within which
they are reasonably sure of finding the trail. When

(Continued on page 594)

An Overseas Worker uLets l-lis l—lair Down'

ELIEVE I’LL LET my hair

down a bit and give you

as much of the profes-
sional dope as possible. Might
as well start from the begin-
ning. Since landing, we have
been going practically all of
our time full tilt—mornings,
afternoons, and evenings. A
typical day is on the job at
7:30 A. 11., quit at II :45; on
again at 12:30, off at 5 :30; on at 7:00 in the eve-
nings always, until taps at 10:30. This has hap-
pened- almost invariably seven days per week ever
since our arrival. .

Office work is done the first two hours in the
morning and, when no special event is operating,
after seven in the evening. The rest of the day is
spent in the field, the transportation for which is
furnished by a car given us by the Army. This has
necessitated quite an adjustment from the 5:00
o’clock whistle back in the States, but frankly we
have learned how to get a bit of private relaxation
on the job, and the satisfaction received from
really putting out is more than adequate payment.
There is so much to be done.

Here are the results of our major recreation
projects to date: ‘

We are building nine Enlisted Men’s Service
Clubs for recreation purposes to be staffed by
Army personnel and operated under my direction.
These buildings are 80’ long and 40’ wide, built
by native labor under my supervision along with
that of the Field Director. The American Red
Cross is footing the complete bill, and what a con-
struction experience this is proving! We have cer-
tainly called into use all of the technical points we
have been able to pick up.

The natives want to do all of this work for
nothing. Money means not a thing to them. Con-
sequently we are working out a barter arrange-
ment to their extreme satisfaction. About two hun-
dred natives are now actively engaged on the pro j-
ect, and all of our contacts have to be handled
through an interpreter, another interesting ex-
perience. What they can do in their primitive ways
is nothing less than amazing; it puts us to shame.
For example, the military were supposed to loan
us a truck for a day on which to transport some

562

Workers who have gone overseas to con-
duct recreation programs for the Ameri-
can Red Cross are having an opportunity
to use their ingenuity
ness to the nth degree, and sometimes
they have little else to work with in the
situations in which they find themselves.
Through the courtesy of the American Red
Cross we are publishing excerpts from a
letter written by Jack Malach from an is-
land somewhere in the Southwest Pacific.

  
  
   
 
  
     
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
  

huge beams to the constru
tion site. The truck failed L
show up at the appoint
time, so the natives bodi
lifted the beams, one by on
and carried them down
the water, then floated th
to the desired spot. One .,
jumped on top of them wh
in the water, whipped out h'
paddle, and maneuvered the
a half mile to their destination.

The first day of erection, when they are quitti
for the night, all of the workers are called .
gether, and their chief recites a five minute pray
for the safe completion and blessing of the buil
ing while the others kneel with bowed hea
What an inspiring sight!

Forgot to mention that a ten-foot porch ru
along one 80’ side and extends over the wat
The purpose of this is to take advantage of
natural for a swimming program, in addition
certain definite relaxational scenic values; “atm
phere" might be a better word. Detailed day-
day records are being kept on the whole proje
both written and photographical.

and resourceful-

Second Big Job

The second big job of the moment is taki
complete charge of the special event phase of
military recreation program. So far this has
volved around the presentation of such things
minstrel shows, stage shows, quartet contests, .
glee club performances which have been turned
the chaplains into church choirs. Every unit
the island receives a minimum of one of tl
monthly; they put them on themselves. I am
technical director and have a small staff under :
working on these and trained by me.

We shoot for the participation angle and
performance, so technically some of them .
pretty awful, but they all get a chance. They "
from hillbilly jamborees to soldier versions
“Hellzapoppin” which are really riots—ninety :
cent original stuff. One prize act was the rol '
of a huge oil barrel on the stage by eight me
after it was up there, one man walks up and ti
his cigarette lighter—then the eight laboriously r

(Continued on page 592)

A Champion in the Making!

HEN MY four-year-
w old showed an inter-
; est in ski pictures,
jump meets and movie‘
' horts on the white art, I
resolved another season
would find us both on skis
of our own. My armchair
skiing would blossom into a try at the real thing.
We would learn the sport from scratch, together.

With the first frost of the following autumn, I
brought two books on skiing from the library. The
hild and I poured over them, our interest in
icture books for once equal. The authorities ad-
ised preseason training. Gleefully, we started
; etting in trim.

Saturday afternoon hikes took us to secluded
pots where we practiced falling, crouch-running
nd ankle loosening. Fortunately we lived near a
voods patch so the distance was not too far for
Short legs to travel. We cut armpit length sticks
nd on make-believe runners we ski-walked and
slide-slipped.

To the youngster, this was a new game, a little
“screwy” but lots of fun. For me, it meant creak-
ing muscles, aching ankles and
ot a few bruises. For both of
s it proved the
eginning of a
I elightful ex-
. e r i e n c e i- n
hating recrea-
ion that need
nd only when

am too feeble
o totter off to
. e e m y of f -
.pring b r in g
ome the loving
ups. For, of
ourse, I am

raining a
hampionl

P a l a n d I

ere the sports .
hop’s first ski- '  a: ;
ustomers of i i _ ‘ ' g
' he season, We  , ,  ‘ ii 

ere measured

Preseason

:1

a:
)3

ourtcsy 7L0

 

By C. HENSLEY JACKSON

In this delightful story a father tells how
he and his four-year-old conquered the fine
art of skiing. Together the

balanced their way to skilr.

rug, a golf course. and a bumpy street car.

practice
falling saved many a skinned nose!

 

J
'K

i‘v
‘ 1
¢

1%

03.,

. g .
I
v
_~ 9‘“  ._ .n. g”  a ‘g

5 “Angeles County Department of Recreation

 
 
  

from the base of our up-
stretched palms to the floor.
We bought poles armpit
height. Pal’s had to be
ordered because of the short,
short length. Like old hands,
we tested the skis for warp-
ing by putting running sur-
faces together. When we left the shop, a long pair
of hickory and a short pair of maple skis were
“on order.”

No expert could have given his equipment more
loving care than we did ours when we finally got
it home. We hand-waxed and rubbed the runners,
stood them up on end and gloated over their shin-
ing smoothness.

We won our first round at the sport when we
convinced the Mother of the need for indoor prac-
tice. With a quizzical eye on her rugs, she gave
reluctant consent. There followed many happy
evenings as we learned to fasten bindings properly,
clasp outside; to balance; to lift one ski and then
the other, keeping runners always parallel; and
finally to turn by sidestepping.

That balance problem was a real one for the tot.
We tried walking an upturned
plank to increase control. Then

we went street-
car riding, in-
sisting on stand-
ing in the aisle
a n d t a k i n g
bumps and jerks
on our feet. The
amused con-
ductor finally
got the idea. I
shall always
think he put his
car through all
the gymnastics
in the book after
that. Pal made
a few forced
landings and
once we both
fe 11 o n o u r
knees. Before
i - long, however,

563

ski-walked and

via the parlor

in relaxed

_-,-..- , U, . ..i. -

Vs?“

564 A CHAMPION IN THE MAKING!

nothing could upset us. \Ve
furnished a lot of amusement
for fellow passengers who
somehow couldn’t see the
snowy slopes, the surprise
obstacles, and the unexpected
bumps we were riding over.

As the time for snow grew nearer we cast about
for an easy, roomy practice course. This must
have long stretches of level with some gentle
slopes. The neighborhood golf course looked just
about right. Inquiry brought the information that
“No trespassing” signs could be disregarded dur-
ing deep snows.

After that, Pal included a “God, please send a
deep snow” in the usual “Now I lay me."

Our first snow proved to be deep, light, and
dry. I took the day 0H. “7 e got our ski-togs out
even before breakfast: warm caps that covered our
ears; sturdy, square-toed shoes with firm soles;
two pairs of woolen stockings to pull over our
knees; and lightweight but wind-and-water-repel-
lent snow suits.

The Mother insisted on a hot breakfast of
cereal, eggs, cocoa and toast. Then, with skis over
our shoulders in the book-prescribed fashion
(one-fourth front, three-fourths back, running sur-
faces together), we were off.

The snow creaking under our skis felt good.
Our poles gave us confidence. In no time at all
we were slipping along, right ski, left stick; left
ski, right stick—in a rhythm learned by indoor
practice.

Quite often, that first time, we rested, placing
our skis at an angle, runners up to the bright sun
each time we took them off. Pal was the first to
try any slope at all, and then only the gentle in-
cline leading off from a green. It ended in a Spill
and a good laugh. But before too long we man-
aged to take these in our stride. .

In high Spirits we finally headed for home, yell-
ing “We want food, we want food,” as we came
within hearing distance of Mother.

She was ready for us. Never have I known
roast beef, carrots, potatoes and parsnips to taste
so good. Pal, too, needed none of the usual urg-
ing. Two helpings of every-
thing satistied our outdoor ap-
petites and we were ready for
a long, delicious nap.

After we had gone out sev-
eral times and had repeated
our indoor routine over and

"What is fun. anyway? Why. a little
time to do what you want to do with-
out interference; to lose yourself
in what you would be doing all the
time if you could. . . ."—From an
editorial in the Reading. Pa., Times.

"We should court the spirit of play
else we grow old. The gulf between
parent and child would often be nar-
rowed if mutual play would be culti-

vated."—MaudeL.Ethetedge,M.D., letin, “Barrels of Fun
in Health Facts for College Students.

  
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
   

over, we looked for 81»
bit longer. Ups and a -
really started then. Our
season practice in relaxed
ing saved us many a s '
nose but we had to reso
our books again to 1e
rise without removing a ski. When we cou ..
over, get our skis parallel, transverse to our c
and, with the aid of poles, raise ourselves u
we had passed another milestone.

As the season progressed, our courage incr
with the steepness of the slopes we tackled. S
toward the end of winter did we have to cl .
runaway ski released when our nerve su
refused to keep pace with our ambition. W11
were good enough to join groups of other not
expert skiers we got many a pointer from th

This season we have a third candidate '
place on our family team. Mother has deci
few falls with us is more fun than being
widow. We are advising her, however, to do ;
time on the indoor preliminaries. For this ‘
dad and daughter (you guessed it, Pal is a
are off to steeper slopes.

If you are one of those fortunate fathers
like Mr. Jackson, finds time to play with h'
dren, you’ll want to add to your winter f
making some snow equipment. Children 1
build things they can use, particularly thing
provide motion and which can be constructe .
minimum of time and with the use of only
tools. This is particularly true when Father
time off to help make and use them!

If you’re making just-for-fun skis, a su
flour barrel will provide approximately ten
of staves. This type of barrel is best f
because the staves are smooth, and although

of hard wood they are light and easy to 1
late.

And don’t forget the snow scooter! It pr
a lot of fun and, painted in several colors,
the child his chance to be a real artist as
a snow sportsman.

If you would like some
ple directions for makin
fun-producing articles,
the National Recreation
ciation for a copy of the

\Vinter.”

We're Glad to Have You with Us!

M any cities with war industries into which workers from other communities
are crowding are confronted with the need for making these newcomers feel
at home and happy in their new environment. The ways in which two cities
in New York State have tried to solve this problem are recounted here.

Welcome to Schenectady!

By w. P. HUNT
Y. M. c. A.

CHENECTADY’S WELCOME to newcomers origi—
S nated when the chairman of our Public Rela-
tions Committee, Robert L. Gibson, started
the ball rolling by appointing a subcommittee
known as the Welcome—to-Newcomers Committee.
The committee was made up of twelve key men
and women from departments of the two plants
where new workers were coming in largest num—
hers—Test, Apprentice Training, Business Train-
ing, and Army and Navy Personnel.
L At first, efforts were made to reach the shop and
actory men through the employment office, but
|when this met with little success personal invita—
ions were issued, each signed by a committee
ember. A typical invitation urged the newcom-
rs to attend a get-together party at the Y.M.C.A.
nd gave a hint of the program—greetings from
ivic and business leaders; the showing of colored
lides ; entertainment; informal dancing; and last,
ut not least, refreshments. At the bottom of the
'nvitation was a slip to be filled in with an ac-
‘eptance or refusal.
Each party followed the same general pattern.
A master of ceremonies was in charge of the pro-
ram, which varied from the presentation of radio
talent to performances by children. There were

   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
   

ended with a dance. And
there were no wallflowers
at our dances!

To each guest we gave an
envelope containing a city
map, a folder entitled “Sche-
nectady, an old Dutch town
—places you ought to know,”

prepared by the Y.M.C.A.,
and a circular describing the

( Continued on page 594)

lways a few speeches of welcome, and each party

Schenectady. New York. has had a large
influx of young married people and sin-
gle men who have come to work in the
city's two great industries—the General
Electric Company and the American Loco-
motive plant. To serve the needs of
these strangers "Welcome to Newcomers"
parties were conducted. In Kenmore. a
much smaller community. "Defense Mixers"

have proved the happy media for bring-
ing together the city's new residents.

Defense Mixers at Kenmore

By MARGENE HARRIS
Kenmore. New York

UR “DEFENSE MIXERS,” as they are called,
began last spring when a local merchant told
me that many young men were complaining

of being lonely. We felt that something must be '
done and decided to begin with a social recreation
program.

We based our planning on two general princi-
ples. One was to let the boys organize their own
dances and parties, and this they were soon doing
with the help of their newly—found girl friends.
The other principle on which we proceeded was to
build from the ground up. This meant beginning
with a small number who would invite their
friends, and who in turn would invite theirs in a
kind of chain letter system. It meant expanding
slowly, feeling our way as needs arose, but allow-
ing plenty of leeway for initiative on the part of
the individual. In this way we were able to learn

“ who our potential leaders were.

.VVe began by inviting to my home four boys
whom a friend had frequently seen eating together
in a tearoom. At this meeting it was suggested
that we arrange for an outing with four girls.
Using this group as a nucleus, a skiing party was
our first event.

Planning for Dances

With a few new girls added, two committee
meetings were then held,
both on the same night, to
discuss plans for a dance.
Two of the original young
men and two newcomers
were present at each meet—
ing with four girls. The
meetings, held in homes of
Kenmore residents, proved
a splendid way of getting

(Continued on next page)

565

566 DEFENSE MIXERS AT KENMORE

acquainted. One of the hostesses, a leader of young
people at the Methodist Church, selected twenty
girls from her group to attend the dance. Publicity
in the local papers brought us a number of new
girls who turned out to be real leaders.

After the two simultaneous committee meetings,
our four original boys got together, compared
notes on mixing games, decorations and music,
and planned the dance. Emergencies which arose
were met by the young peOple themselves, and I
made it a practice never to step in unless some last
minute problem made it
necessary. This proved
a wise method, and the
group has run several
dances, dinners, and
parties with which I
have had no connection
as far as work was con-
cerned.

For the second and
third dances committees
were chosen by one of
the boys in the original
group. They met at the
home of one of the girls
and proved a wonderful
aid to sociability and
friendship. Refresh-
ments were always
served, and the evening
frequently ended with
dancing in the living
room. There were usu-
ally three or four boys
and the same number of
girls at each meeting.
Many real friendships
have been by-products
of the contacts made.

The young people made
their own decorations and
brought victrola records for
the juke box. Dances were held in the Y.W.C.A.,
where the rental fee was $10. The hours were
from 8:00 to 12:00. At first we charged 25 cents
for girls and 25 cents for boys. Later a charge of
50 cents was made for boys alone. P0p was sold at
5 cents a bottle. At the first dance one of the
older pe0ple collected the money. At later dances
people made their own change and helped them-
.elves to the pop from the ice container.

Boys were obtained by the “chain” system.

 

Orlando, Florida, bervtce Men’s Llub

Whether he's war worker or service man.
he "goes" for dancing in his free time!

I
About six or eight of them came from the MethoJ
dist Church group; the rest were invited from the
plants where our original eight boys worked. I

There were twenty-five couples at the first dance.
We printed the names of our guests on tags and"
fastened them on with safety pins. Chaperons were .
on hand to introduce the boys as far as this was!
possible. The girls came early with the hostess of.
the dance. 

The system of double cutting or exchange b_ '
couples was used. At the end of a dance a coup]
would turn to a near-b
couple, and the b0
would take the new girl, ‘
leaving the other boy
and girl to dance toJ
gether. This plan wa
so successful. it has been
our chief mixer metho
used for approximate]
every other dance. By
the end of the evening
every man has danced
with practically every
girl present.

Our second dance with
thirty-five couples was
great success, and th
third dance with forty
five couples was pro
nounced the best of all
As a result of our ex
perience we came to th
conclusion that danc
are probably the bes
form of mixers, whil
, dinners, picnics, an
\ party evenings at
l i highly desirable f0
those who have previ
ously established social con
tacts in a congenial group.

We found that the grou
enjoyed a little intermission entertainment of loca
talent introduced in the middle of the evening. Th
first time it was a trio of singers from the big
school; on the second occasion there was grou
singing of popular songs; and on the third,
rhumba dance led by a local dancing teacher.

In order to keep the number of boys and girl
balanced, we found it necessary to call up eac
person after sending a notice on a printed card .

( Continued on page 594)

  
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

  
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

HE SOCIETY of Recreation
Workers of America has
announced its 1943 Joseph
ee Memorial Contest for
ecreation Literature, the
rpose of which is to en- ‘
urage professional recrea—
on workers and college
aduate students majoring in
creation to write not so much on the phi1050phy
the movement as on the practical and technical
ases of recreation. There is need, it is believed,
r special emphasis on techniques and methods
ed for accomplishing the desired results.

Final Selection

The final selection will be made by a competent
ard of three udges. Specific criteria for judging
e best paper will be:

I. Does the basic idea add to the body of scien-

tific knowledge of recreation?
2. Is the basic idea of national or international
significance ?
. Is the writing objective?
Is the composition clear?

.90.)

Rules of the Contest

Papers are to be of not more than 2,500 words.
Members in good standing in the Society of
creation Workers of America and graduate
dents majoring in recreation, certified by the
an of a graduate school, are eligible to enter the
ntest. "
The closing date of the con-
st is August I, 1943.

Each manuscript must bear
e name, address, position,
(1 organization of the writer
the upper left—hand corner
the first page.

Manuscripts will not be re-
rned unless accompanied by
fticient postage.

Grant D.Brandon.Superintendent ot Rec-
reation in Lancaster. Pennsylvania' who
is serving as chairman of the committee
in charge of the contest. calls atten-
tion to two changes made in the rules
for the current year: The contest will
be open to graduate college students
in courses in recreation, and the award

ottered has been increased to $IOO.

The committee in charge of the litera-
ture contest stresses the responsibility
of recreation workers tor developing
and enriching the literature in the field
of recreation. Superintendents ot rec-
reationI assistants. supervisorsI directors.
and graduate students in recreation
courses are urged to submit papers. "A
successful movement." says the commit-
teeI "should develop a body of literature
written by the people within its ranks."

The Joseph Lee Memorial Contest

tor

Recreation Literature

The Society of Recreation
Workers of America reserves
the privilege of publishing
any manuscripts submitted.

Apply for applications and
address all manuscripts to:
Grant D. Brandon, Chair-
man, Committee Joseph Lee
Memorial Contest for Recre-
ation Literature, Municipal Building, I20 North
Duke Street, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

Awards

An award of $100 in cash will be given the first
place winner, and there will be suitable certificates
for second and third place winners. These awards
will be presented at the Society’s annual meeting
held during the National Recreation Congress.

Last Year’s Winners

In the 1942 contest, first place was awarded to
Roswell  Caulk, Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation, Steubenville, Ohio, the title of whose
paper was “Democracy and Recreation.” Honor—
able mention was given Robert W. Crawford,
Superintendent of Recreation in Montclair, New
Jersey, who wrote on “Public Recreation in War-
tlme.”

At the meeting of the Society of Recreation
\Norkers held in Cincinnati, the following Officers
were elected for the ensuing year:

President: Charles H. Eng—
lish, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania.

First V ice—President: E. W.
Robertson, Oakland, Cali—
tornia.

Second V ice-Prudent: EW.
Johnson, St. Paul, Minne-
sota.

Secretary: K. Mark Cowen,

(Continued on page 587)
567

When a Service Man Goes South—

 

Photo by Pvt. John Bushemi

Newport News "Coordinates"

By CHARLES C. NIXON

Director of Recrea’rion
Newporf News, Virginia

branches of service are entertained each week

by the citizens of Newport News, Virginia.
All programs are coordinated by the City Recrea-
tion Division which was established in June 1941
to keep the recreation machinery of the city run-
ning smoothly.

Several agencies were already carrying on pro-
grams of recreation for service men, but the army
posts near the city had expanded to such a degree
that the facilities of these agencies were overtaxed
by visiting soldiers. One of the first functions of
the Recreation Division was to find new centers
and new activities for these men.

Six churches opened lounges or recreation cen-
ters and carried on a program of home hospitality,
parties, suppers, etc. Hospitality House, the Par-
ish House of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, was
opened as a full time service men’s recreation cen-

568

an AVERAGE of 15,000 men of the various

  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
     
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
   

ter with dancing on Saturd
evenings and free refreshmen
and a buffet supper on Sundays.

The Knights of Columbus ma
their meeting hall, club room
and recreation facilities availab
for service men whom the Recr
ation Division invited to week
buffet luncheons, dances, an
bowling parties. The Y.VV.C.
established a service men’s loun
and recreation hall in their buil
ing and the Original Club turn
over its dance hall, bowling alley
and kitchen to the Recreation D'
vision for the entertainment of se
vice men on week ends. The pr
grams included variety show
parties, dances, etc. Hostesses f:
these affairs were furnished .
the American Association of Un
versity Women.

The Woman’s Club opened th '
rooms as a lounge on week en
and sponsored a weekly dance at the Munici
Armory. Through their efforts a girls’ organiz
tion was formed to secure girls as dance partne
This Girls’ Defense Club is headed by a “Captai
and twenty-five “Lieutenants,” each lieutena
having the responsibility of some fifteen girls

her squad. Orchestras for the dances are paid I
business firms of the city.

When the Army took over the Armory, t
Newport News Elks Club immediately offe -
their hall to the Woman’s Club for its we
dances. The Elks also opened their building f
informal parties on Wednesday evenings and ._
considering making the facilities available as
center for service men’s recreation every night I
the week.

Club Houses Built

The United Service Organizations began sen
ing directors to the city in July 1941 and t
carried on non-equipment work until two cl
houses were constructed with Federal governmc
funds, one for white and one for colored troo
These club houses were opened for use in Febr
ary and March. In addition to these, the Jewis

I/VHEN A SERVICE MAN GOES SOUTH— 569

\Velfare Board branch of the U.S.O. opened a
club which was donated for their use by the
residents of a Jewish community in the city. These
units have been most helpful and have carried the
bulk of the service men’s program since they were
established.

In addition to the well-rounded programs within
their building, they have assisted other agencies
throughout the community with special programs
such as visiting special guard units at isolated
points for wiener roasts, picnics, and dances. Girls
for these occasions are recruited from the Girls’
Defense Club, the Victory Belles, the Elms Club,
and the Jewish girls’ group.

Block dances held by several organizations in
the city furnish diversion for both service men and
civilians as well as for a large gallery of specta-
tors attending each dance. Outstanding among
these is a weekly block dance held by the Jewish
Welfare Board. Indoor dances are held in the
community every night. Other services provided
for the comfort of the service men now include
showers, gymnasium facilities, free shaving equip-
ment, boating and fishing opportunities, etc.

Small Agencies Carry On

Although a few of the smaller agencies closed
their facilities after the opening of the U.S.O.
club houses, they still carry on a program of home
hospitality and assist with the U.S.O. program.

Some of the agencies which plan their program
principally for service men also include defense
workers. A_ corps of recreation leaders work under
the supervision of the city recre-
ation office in various housing
projects with the families of de-
fense workers.

Under the Office of Civilian
Defense the City Recreation Di-
vision supervises some one hun-
dred and twenty volunteers whose
chief responsibility is a recreation
program at designated points dur-
ing blackout air raid tests or
actual air raids. These people also
help in a great many other phases
of the city-wide recreation pro-
gram.

Additional facilities are needed,
and several government agencies
are assisting the Recreation Divi-
sion in planning for,the construc-
tion of buildings for this purpose.

The community is constantly devising new means

of serving the men of the armed forces who come
to the city seeking diversion.

Welcome to Anniston
By HAROLD C. DAVIS

Field Recreation Representative

Federal Security Agency

KING COTTON ruled in royal display at the Ser-
vice Men’s Ball held in Anniston, Alabama,
on October 16th. Soldiers from near-by Fort
McClellan went into the fields and gathered cotton
to decorated the new Federal Recreation Building
where the dance was held. Local warehouses sent
over bales of cotton to add to the supply, and
soldier artists completed the decorations with a
“Show Boat” mural. Girls attending the dance
were ushered into the festivities and presented
with cotton corsages (made by a committee of
soldiers and civilians).

The Cotton Ball was one of the highlights in the
regular program of activities which are provided
for men in uniform at the Recreation Building
which has become an oasis for the men from the
Fort. Since its dedication in March 1942, the
building has become the pride and joy of the citi-
zens of this typically southern city.

Benny Cash (at piano) and orchestra "give out"
at a dance in Anniston's Recreation Building

 

570 WHEN A SERVICE MAN GOES SOUTH—

. Anniston is different from
many cities, since Uncle
Sam’s soldiers are not
strangers here. Fort Mc-
Clellan has been a perma-

nent post for many years

and the sudden arrival of large numbers of men
in uniform at the Fort late in 1940 did not excite
the people of Anniston into frenzied activity. But
many serious minded citizens and public officials
were aware of the possibility of serious morale
problems if adequate provisions for recreation
were not made.

To this end Judge S. E. Boozer, Chairman of
the Calhoun County Defense Committee, requested
the services of a representative from the office of
Defense Health and Welfare Services to help plan
recreation for this southern community. Rec'rea-
tion specialist George Syme, Jr., was assigned to
Anniston to help direct community planning for
the solution of defense recreation problems that
were pyramiding from day to day.

Anniston is particularly fortunate in having sev—
eral outstanding local people who are leaders in
sectional and state-wide affairs. General Robert
E. Noble (retired) was asked to serve as chair-
man of the Calhoun County Defense Recreation
Committee. Because of his wide knowledge of
local conditions and people he was able to recruit
four hard-working committee members who did a
three-fold job simultaneously. They sponsored a

city-wide recreation progam with funds from the '

city of Anniston and the Alabama WPA Recrea-
tion Program; they coordinated all recreation ser-
vices in Calhoun County; and at the same time this
Defense Recreation Committee was assisted by
Mr. Syme in the over-all planning which resulted
in the construction of the Federal Recreation
Building and the selection of an operating agency.

The City Commissioner, the Defense Recrea-
tion Committee, the U.S.O. Council, and the Army
were represented on the Building Management
Committee which took an active part in planning
the dedication ceremonies. The committee inter-
preted local needs, desires, and community charac-
teristics to the operating per-
sonnel in order that the pro—
gram would meet local needs.

Standing committees were
appointed on program, host-
ess service, special events,

IIThis cooperative spirit between the ci-
vilian and the soldier is a splendid thing.
and does more for morale than any
synthetic scheme can ever hope to accom-

plish."—Major General Joseph Stilwell.

"The boys cannot be fooled. A town is
either a good town for soldiers or it is
Committees Set Up not. And the factor in the situation
which makes it a good town is the spirit
of the people who are aware of the prob-

lem and straining every effort and re-
source to meet it."—Mark McCIoskey.

flower decorations, etc., and
provision was made for spe-
cial subcommittees.

This building was built,
furnished, and equipped
with Lanham Act funds by
the Army Construction Quartermaster for the
Federal Works Agency, and was completed in the
ninety-day schedule. It was assigned to the Jew-
ish Welfare Board, National Catholic Community
Service, and Travelers’ Aid, agencies of the United
Service Organizations, and was dedicated on Sun-
day, March 29, 1942.

This is one of the five largest Federal Recrea-
tion Buildings built with Lanham Act funds. On
the first door are an auditorium of 80’ x 100’,
with stage and dressing rooms; lounge and refresh—
ment space 40’ x60’; completely equipped kitchen
and snack-bar; a large library; writing room;
separate office space for Jewish Welfare Board,
National Catholic Community Service, and Travel-
ers’ Aid; a powder room; ample rest room and
shower space; and a large check room.

The second floor includes three club and game
rooms, a dark room, projection booth, and two
small offices. The plans were drawn by a local
architect and designed for soldier and community
recreation needs. This building is approximately
two and one-half times the size of the Standard
“B” type plan.

Battalion Dances on Monday, Tuesday, and
Thursday or Friday each week provide mass social
recreation activities for the men of Fort McClel-
lan. The citizens of Anniston work closely with
the Special Services Ofiicers, who have been espe-
cially cooperative in making arrangements. Usual-
ly Battalion Dances include a vaudeville show by
the soldiers themselves.

The featured acts at these dances have been
made especially successful by the appearance of
such noted performers as Benny Cash, who, prior
to induction, was with the Kay Kyser and Hal
Kemp orchestras; Jason Newell Chase, producer
for Alexander Korda and song-hit composer; Paul
Reif, composer of “Isle of Capri”; Frank Marlow,
famous night club entertainer ;
Lou Seiler of Seiler Bros.
vaudeville team; and “Pack”
McFarlan, radio and Shake-
spearean actor.

The appearance of such
talent not only insures the

(Continued on page 593)

 

 

uThe Rec"

By A. M. DIXON

_ Superintendent
Recreation Association

Troy, Ohio

AN AN ACTIVITY of a Recreation As-
C sociation compete with the road-
house and the liquor “joint”? Will
students “fall in” with such an adventure?
Consideration of these and related ques-
tions led the Recreation Association of
Troy, Ohio, a county seat of 10,000 popu-
lation, to open a “hangout” for students of
the Junior High and High School in a
downtown location during the fall of 1941.
At first it was designated as the “Rec-
reation Rooms.” But the students having their
own idea of the fitness of things, soon christened
it affectionately “The Rec.” As such it is now
known by students, their parents and the towns-
people in general.

The Rec is open each weekday afternoon and
evening except Monday, and Sunday evenings
from eight to ten o’clock. The average daily at-
tendance for the first year was about 70, with more
than 1,000 students from Troy and the surround-
ing community making use of the rooms.

Equipment consists of three game rooms for
ping-pong, pool, checkers, and other less active
games; a dance room; and an office which con-
tains, .in addition to the office furniture, a candy
counter: a “coke” machine, a magazine rack, and
a reading and game table. Music is provided in
the dance room by an automatic record¥changing
phonograph and radio. The students select their
own records, purchasing three new ones each
week.

No programs or parties are planned—it’s just a
place for informal fellowship, games, dancing, and
“what have you.” Of course, football and basket-
ball games are replayed on Friday evenings in the
Rec after the official games are over. The players
defend themselves, the officials are castigated and
the students tell the players a
few things.

“POp, I want to pay my
dues” (10 cents per month)
-—the jingle of money drop-
ping into the candy jar—the

To the boys and girls who have adopted
"The Rec" Superintendent Dixon is just
plain "Pop." Under his guidance Troy's
high school "hangout" is filling an im-
portant place in the life of the students.

 

Dancing at "The Rec"

click of the “coke” machine—these tell the story
of the maintenance of the rooms. Funds from these
sources cover all Operating expenses. The rent and
cost of supervision are provided out of the Recre-
ation Association budget.

One special feature is a Saturday NIGHT CLUB.
A membership card costing twenty-five cents per
year is issued for this club. Admission on Satur-
day nights is by card only. The term “night club”
adds a bit of atmosphere.

One of our surprises was to find that more
students prefer such games as ping-pong to
dancing.

A few simple rules such as “Rough-house is
out, or you are,” “Smoking, gambling, liquor, pro-
fanity not tolerated,” with no damper on noise,
provided that noise is an accompaniment to a game
or other wholesome activity, have helped to make
this a place for clean and healthy fun. One mother
whose children have found it a happy “hangout”
speaks of it as a “glorious melting-pot.” Young
people make friends here and acquire an under-
standing of peOple which would be next to impos-
sible with any other type of gathering.

One Saturday evening,
about three months after the
rooms were opened, a group
of students who had formerly
been in the habit of making

(Continued on page 587)
571

Scera—Community Recreation lncorporated

REM IS THE incorporated

name of a community of

some 6,000 peOple living
in an area of several square miles in the state of
Utah. The city, which is semiurban, is located
about five miles north of Provo and some forty
miles south of Salt Lake City. It includes most
of a region known as Sharon. The main industries
are farming and canning. War industries adjacent
to Orem, however, will doubtless cause rapid
changes in the near future. The town has within
its boundaries several schools, including one large
high school and several churches.

Various recreation agencies have for years con-
ducted their own programs, but there was no cen—
tral plan for cooperation on a community-wide
basis. The School Board furnished part—time em-
ployees; the Orem Chamber of Commerce spon-
sored a baseball team; and the church and school
auditoriums provided places for some recreation
activity, Because of insufiicient leadership and
funds, however, the entire recreation program be-
came unsatisfactory.

Scera, The Answer

To provide a successful community recreation
program, community leaders organized a non-
profit recreation association known as SCERA (pro-
nounced Sér-a), the abbreviation of SHARON’S Co-
OPERATIVE EDUCATIONAL RECREATIONAL ASSOCIA-
TION. The association was incorporated for a hun—
dred years unders the laws of Utah. When SCERA
was-organized, each of the community agencies
which formerly had provided recreation agreed to
have SCERA sponsor the recreation program for
the community. Furthermore, each agency pledged
to cooperate in every way possible. Thus all
worked together as a team—the Town of Orem,
Alpine School District,
Sharon State (church unit),
Orem Chamber of Com-
merce, the various civic
clubs, and later WPA. The
association was financed by
donations from these organ-
izations, income from recre-
ation activities, and an an-
nual membership fee.

572

By ELDON D. BRINLEY
Montclair State Teachers College

Recreation administrators have long recog-
nized the importance of the community as
a focal point for the organization of recrea—
tion affecting surrounding districts. With the
hope that an account of the way in which the
program has developed in one city
other communities. Mr. Brinley has traced in
some detail the step-by-step developments
in OremI Utah. He has visited the com-
munity and studied all available information.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  

The corporate powers of this
organization are vested in nine
men chosen from each of the
small units in the community at an annual meeting
of members in September. The board meets monthly,
and board members hold ofiice for one year with-
out pay. Interestingly enough, one of the requis-
ites to becoming a board member and serving
gratis is the purchase of $100 of the corporation’s
bonds. The board may enact by-laws and take
other necessary action for the welfare of the or-
ganization. All managers and committees are ap-
pointed by the board, which is responsible for the
entire program including all assessments and ex-
penditures.

The association is so efficiently organized and
administered that almost everyone has some job.
Paid leadership is provided where necessary, but
most of the help is gratis. Trained recreation lead-
ers working in the program receive remuneration,
but even much of this is on the barter system.
Ticket—takers, ushers, door-keepers, newspaper
editors and correspondents, solicitors, various man—
agers, committee members, and other workers fur-
nish their service for special recreation privileges.
There is a wonderful spirit of giving and service.

A typical example is Victor C. Anderson, who
has been the‘general manager for several years.
He has spent days on the job pushing the project
with tireless energy but has never received on
penny for his services and often spends his own
money for necessary items. He is a true commu-
nity leader, and after watching his leadership func-
tion one can better appreciate how this entire plat
came into being. One of the strong points of th
organization is that so many different people hold
an‘ interest in the work in one way or another.

Membership in the association is free, but mem-
bers must sign a statemen
that they are in accord wit
the ideals and principles 0
SCERA. Members may be
active or associate. All head.
of families and unmarrie
persons over eighteen be-
come active members. Any
family member over six
years of age can become an

will help

SCERA—COMMUNITY RECREATION INCORPORATED

associate member if the head
of the family is an active
member. All privileges are
the same for both except that
active members have voting
powers. Incidentally, for the
first three years active mem-
bership cost $1 a year. This
was abandoned in 1936 and
there is no membership fee at present.

Wanted—A Community Building

Among the activities developed under this ar-
rangement was the sponsoring of a motion picture
show. This was the most profitable part of the
entire program, and for seven years the high
school auditorium was leased from the school
board for the shows. Besides furnishing a selected
picture program at a reasonable rate to the people
of the community, it was also possible to linance
the major portion of the recreation program from
motion picture receipts. The high school auditorium
became inadequate, however, and there were nu-
merous conflicts. Furthermore, there was an acute
need for a community center for various other
uses.

Construction of such a building obviously pro-
vided a financial problem, and all available in—
come proved meager for such an undertaking. The
only tangible property was a small piece of ground
previously donated to SCERA by the Mormon
Church. The only other assets consisted of the
good will and
backing by indi-
viduals in the
community. Yet
the urgency of
the matter was
such that SCERA
devised a unique
plan to realize its
objective.

Bonds were
floated in $25
denominations
bearing interest
at 2 per cent to
mature in 1950.
The security back
of the corpora—
tion consisted of
its future build-
ings and prop-

"Neighborhood and community groups
can function together in a free sense. in
my judgment at leas’rI only if they have
in them a goal toward which every man
is headed. Plato said that a common-
wealth. a republic. was a band of broth-
ers; and Aristotle. a band of friends

where trust was mutual."—William Y.
Elliott in The J ewisb Center, June I942.

'Jl
\I
0.:

erty, a mortgage on its pres-
ent tangible property, plus the
recreation income. There was
no capital stock. The people
in the community were sold
on this idea and they bought
bonds. Even bankers, mer-
chants, farmers, and various
other citizens in near-by
cities bought bonds or accepted them in barter.
Besides the bond issue, a loan was made at a
Provo bank. This was secured by 200 members,
who loaned their credit to the organization. Co-
operation of the entire community was so gener-
ous that the general manager, legal counsel, trus-
tee for the bondholders, as well as other officers,
worked without pay. Most of the work was done
by local individuals who either donated part of
their services or received bonds for their wages.
To prepare, float, and sell the bonds did not cost
SCERA one cent.

The community building, which cost $100,000,
was started March 1940 with ground-breaking
ceremonies and was finished a‘year and a half later
when the opening was held in September 1941.
It is difficult to describe the beauty and utility of
this building which was erected to stand for cen-
turies. The walls are made of six—foot thick rein-

Orem's $l00.000 community building is

striking evidence of civic cooperation

 

.U.\ (A L ()KI'UKAI‘L‘L’

l

LU- ’} ( \") 'x'lQL‘N'.-.’

\.l

 

SCERA——~COMMUNITY RECREATION INCORPORATED 575

forced concrete. It has all the latest improvements

’that science can provide including black lighting,
acoustic perfections, modern heating, ventilating,
and air conditioning, beautiful furnishings, and the
.latest in project room equipment. The seats in the
Pauditorium are staggered so that one seat is not
Idirectly behind the other. The grounds are beau-
tifully landscaped. Every detail has been minutely
Irbplanned, and now that it has been completed there
is not a single complaint as to how it could have
been improved.

Not only has SCERA built this magnificent
structure, but it has added materially to its other
facilities, A beautiful athletic field with adequate
bleachers has been provided on adjacent property.

‘There have been constructed an open air dance
pavilion and a beautiful outdoor swimming pool.
Future plans call for further expansion. At pres-I
ent, facilities lacking on SCERA property are avail-
able elsewhere in the community, Continual com—
munity—wide cooperation exists.

   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  

The Program

The present program consists of motion pictures,
socials, sports, music, drama, dancing, handcrafts,
and a special newspaper service.

Each evening except Sunday a motion picture
show is held. Top grade pictures are selected on
the basis of high standards and the desires and
requests of the theater patrons. The average
weekly attendance approaches 3,000. Admission
charges are far below those of other theaters of
the region.

On Sunday evening non—denominational reli-
gious programs are held consisting largely of music
and readings from the best talent to be found in
the surrounding community. The huge auditorium
is utilized for special assemblies, lyceums, gradua-
tion exercises, and other occasions.

Drama and music activities are sponsored
throughout the community. Programs in the audi-
torium furnish an incentive for presenting these
ctivities. Free music classes have been made
vailable to all students from six to eighteen years

or in other places available in
the area such as the church
and school halls. Dancing
parties, handcraft activities,
and tap dancing have been
made available especially to
,children. Regularly scheduled
Idances are provided for all.

f age. Socials are put on in the community center

The Work Projects Administration was
one of the organizations cooperating
in the all-community
gram at Orem. On the opposite page
are pictured some of the activities
which were carried on a number of

years ago with the- help of the WPA.

These are held outdoors in the summer and in-
doors during the winter. In addition, dancing
fundamentals are taught children and adults once
a week at special play periods in eight different
centers.

Sports form a large part of the program. Each
summer softball, volleyball, badminton, and tennis
leagues are organized. Last year there were thirty-
two softball teams in the league. During the sum-
mer months an up—to-date swimming pool is avail—
able at all times and courses in swimming, diving,
and lifesaving are provided. Basketball, roller-
skating, croquet, and horseshoe pitching are also
available. In the winter a large ice skating rink is
located at the town park. Skiing, hiking, and
camping are other popular activities.

Realizing the importance of publicity for a rec-
reation program, the association issues a news-
paper under the title The Voice of Sharon. When
it first made its appearance it was a monthly sheet
of four pages; now it is an eight page weekly, sent
free to the home of every member, and it boasts a
100 per cent coverage in the territory. Originally
the subscription of the paper was included in the
annual membership fee, but since this has been
discarded, the paper is practically self-supporting
through advertising.

The Future

SCERA is just beginning. To date it is finan-
cially sound. It is paying off its bonds in advance,
and has eliminated its membership fee. The pro—
gram has an excellent start. Plans call for the
buying of more land and the provision of addi-
tional facilities. It is going to expand with the
community. The unique feature of SCERA from
the first has been that most of its activities are
carried on by members volunteering their services.
The people have built SCERA, it is theirs, and they
love and appreciate it. This arrangement has
welded the community together into one large
family regardless of religion, social status, or poli—
tics. The spirit of cooperation and willingness to
serve has provided the nucleus for this achieve-
ment. An association so well planned as SCERA

~ which generates the spirit of

unselfishness and service can-
not help but fiourish.
Recreation is definitely in-
volved in the conception of
democracy since both imply
freedom of choice. Recrea-

( C autinucd on page 593)

recreation pro-

What They Say About Recreation

ll RESENT TRENDS showing an increase in law-
P lessness are not heartening. Wartime aban-
don, broken homes, fewer recreation facili-

ties, greater Opportunities for inexperienced youth
to earn large salaries are the factors creating the
problem. Good homes are the answer.”—J. Edgar

H ooz'er.

“The promise of a new leisure underwritten by
the marvels of technology is offering fresh oppor-
tunity for play, play that is creative and re-crea-
. tive of youth and self—expression.”—From Penn-
sylvania Planning.

“The need for recreation is greater than it has
ever been before. The state, cities, towns, and vil-
lages must find the financial resources not only for
maintaining these services at the present level, but
also for going beyond.”-—Dr. Philip L. Seman,
Chairman, Chicago Recreation Commission.

“We must recover our original vision of demo-
cratic society, and the sense of adventure that we
had during the years of pioneering—a readiness to
go along different lines from those which we took
in the past.”—Lezvis M mnford.

“I believe in bigger and better construction for
public recreation because I am satisfied that it
makes better people. This is . . . simply a plan to
do adequately and well what a community needs to
make it really 1ivahle."—Robert Moses.

“No one is anxious to know about how well he
may live, but about how long, whilst it is neverthe-
less possible for all to ensure good life, and for
none to ensure long life.”—Latin quotation.

“Every wholesome recreation activity makes its
contribution toward the ultimate objective of the
park, namely, to provide an interesting and awak-
ening experience which will add to the content of
the lives of the people visiting the park.”—From
Park Use Studies and Demonstrations.

“If democracy means anything at all, it means
that the everyday affairs of the common man offer
a direct road to the more abundant life.”—-Boyd
Bode.

576

“Lack of adequate recreation facilities, to say
nothing of time in which to use them, in the case
of adults, is a detriment to the well being of the
nation.”—-—Sir Wilson Jameson, Chief Medical Of-
ficer. Ministry of Health, Great Britain.

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

“Build your morale, not only to win the war but
to have a better time doing it, and to make the
years that are to follow the war more fruitful and
happy for all the world.”——William G. Carr.

“Extension of the recreational horizons when
leisure is lengthened depends to some extent, at
least, on education, and the optimum amount will
depend on how successfully education can fit for

leisure as well as for the other activities of life.”—
F rom The Youth of New York City.

“Recreation, by its very nature, if it is to reach
its highest form, will not permit of becoming tra-
ditionalized, standardized, and stereotyped.”—

lV. C. Averill, Jr.

“It is absurd to think of utilizing school build—
ings in the future as little as they have been uti-
lized in the past. Most school houses will not wear
out any more rapidly if they are used fifteen hours

of the day than if they are used merely five hours.”
N. L. Engelhardt.

“Recreation contributes basically to that strange
combination called fighting morale that has muc
to do with winning wars. . . . Properly selected
and carried out, our games and activities improv
us physically and mentally.”—Training Through
Recreation.

“Group living is as vital to a child as water to
a geranium. For in group living you have t
same phenomenon you witness among pebbles on
a beach: the big ones remain big; the little on
remain small; but all of them are smoothed off b
knocking around with one another.” —Ernst
Hermann.

“This war is in itself a drama that dwarfs th
Gargantuan feats of the Greeks. We didn’t set the
stage or choose the cast but, please God, we shall
write the third act and call down the curtain.”—
Joy Higgins.

l

‘square box, open it so that it

Homemade Toys
"Make and Mend" Column

articles from which simple,

inexpensive toys and games
can be made. Here are a few
toy projects that will be fun to
try!

From Egg Containers

These come in various shapes,

and in varying degrees of thickness, but all have
interesting possibilities. If the container has curved
impressions on the bottom into which the eggs fit,
here’s a game waiting to be made. Use only the
bottom of the container, paste numbers (old calen—
dar figures will add a colorful note) in the bottom
of each little depression. Place the game on a
table, and toss checkers, pop bottle t0ps, small
cardboard discs, or milk bottle tops into the num-
bered spaces. Each player has three throws, and
his score for each round is the sum of the numbers
in the spaces into which he has tossed his “men.”
The first person hitting a total of 100 wins.

I N EVERY HOME there are many

Notice the oval-shaped compartments in many
egg containers. They sUggest several toy ideas.
When cut out, they will make tulip petals—or a
shell for a turtle (then paste on light cardboard
or paper h'ead, feet and tail) -—-or a perky toy
mouse. Make the mouse’s head from half of a
curved compartment, add a string tail and pointed
cardboard ears. The mouse will sit very realisti-
cally on the floor, ready for any make-believe.

Or remove the top and one side of an egg carton
and produce a hangar for toy paper airplanes. Just
turn the box upside down and set it on the floor.

From Other Boxes
Remember the solitaire
game Peggity? Take any

lies fiat in the shape of a
cross, mark out circles as
shown in the illustration, and
you have a playing board. All
of the circles, except the mid-
dle one, should be covered
with checkers, beans or card-
board discs. The object of

 

Mrs. Mason Trowbridge. a friend of the
National Recreation Association' was at

one time a professional toy designer.
Although she is no longer in business. she
still designs toys — particularly home-
made toys that are easy to constructI
have definite play value. and provide in-
teresting projects for rainy daysI for con-

valescent children. or for just plain every-

day play. Here are some of her sugges-
tions which require no expenditure be-
yond a bottle of glue or a can of shellac.

the game is to clear the board of
all “men” except one. This is
done by a jumping procedure
similar to that used in checkers.
A “man” is removed from the
board when he has been jumped;
that is, another man has passed
over him into a neighboring
vacant spot. If possible, the last “man” should end
up in the middle Space. When two or more play,

‘ each person in turn works out his own solitaire

game. The player who had the fewest “men” left
on the board at the end of his turn is the winner.

Flat boxes from sugar-coated chewing gum or
cough drops make splendid, large dominoes with
a little pasting and cutting. Cover one side with
black paper, and use ink or bits of adhesive tape
for dots. In a week or two, enough of these can
be collected from friends and neighbors to make a
whole set. If you prefer anagrams to dominoes,
paste a big letter on each box.

Square boxes which held jars of cold cream,
salves or ointments make excellent “giant” dice if
they are covered with white paper and the sides
properly spotted. Or you can turn these boxes
into ABC blocks for the younger children by past—
ing letters of the alphabet on the sides.

If you get a carton from the store—one in which
there’s a flat piece of cardboard or corrugated
board with a hole in the center into which your
purchase fitted—be sure to save it. Use it as it is,
and try to toss bean bags into the box through the
hole. If you take out the board, make a reclining
back for it so that it stands at
an angle. This game is adap—
table for a wide age span,
since tossing from a distance
increases the difficulty.

Boards with circles or
squares cut out of the them
also make good picture
frames. Ce110phane can be
substituted for glass. A very
interesting picture frame can

also be made from the top of

577

578 '

a tea can which has a slightly raised center. Cut
the top off the can, remove the small center cover
and let the picture show through this opening.
Use cellophane to protect the picture. The frame
will give the effect of an old miniature when it is
Finished. The rest of the can, incidentally, may be
contributed to the scrap drive.

Round oatmeal and salt boxes require little
changing to become ideal doll furniture. Doll
cradles, chair rockers, barrel-shaped chairs, and
sled runners are a few of the many things for

which these curved containers are particularly
suited.

From “Pop” Containers

Coca-Cola containers are made-to-order for doll
houses, and with enough of them, you can have a
whole village.
Cut off the
handle, paste
b r o w n o r
white paper
over the slant-
e d t o p a n (1
sides, mark
door and win-
dows in crayon, leave one side open, and there you
are! (See illustration.) The sloping top makes a
fine slanting roof. Put an oatmeal box beside this
house, and you have a barn and silo!

 

From Milk Containers

If you buy your milk and cream in waxed card-
board containers, be sure to take off the little caps,
rinse the containers out thoroughly and collect
them. They’ll make wonderful blocks for the small
children since they are light in weight, yet large
enough to be good for manipulation. They are
particularly suited for convalescent play. Children
will find them excellent blocks for construction
projects, such as bridges or houses. Running a
string through several of , them will transform
them into a freight train. A small container strung
behind a large one becomes an automobile and
trailer. And if you would like a mobile toy, stick
long “dead” kitchen matches or skewers through
the lower sides, put corks at the ends of these
wooden axles, and glue bottle tops to the corks.
Similar wheeled toys can be made from any box
and an entire fleet of motor vehicles collected.
(See illustration.)

From Milk Bottle To'ps

Two flat milk bottle tops, pasted together and

HOMEMADE TO Y5

colored, become

checker, disc for

tossing game, or

wheel for a to
wagon.

If the milk ca
are the kind th
have fluted sid
a n d c o 111
down wel
over the up
per portio
of the milk bot-
tle, save them,
for they hav
endless possibili-
ties, To make a
toy shuflleboar
disc, fill one c a
with sand, fit an
other down ove
it so that the sides correspond, and glue them to-
gether. Two empty covers, glued together in th
same manner will suggest a toy bank if you cut .
slit in the top cover, or a toy watch if you pain
the numerals and hands on one side. Add card
board feet, and the watch becomes a clock for th
dollhouse.

 

This same type of milk bottle top will make .'

little bassinet for a doll. Just bend two tops int
an oval shape and glue them back to back. (Se
illustration.) One of them forms the basket part
the other the base. Glue half of another cap t
form a hood over one end of the bassinet. If yo
shellac or paint this, you will have a useful piec
of doll house furniture. A tiny powder puff wil
make a most appropriate mattress.

One of these bottle tops, colored and shellac «-
will resemble an ottoman. Add match stick leg
and convert it into a stool. Kitchen stools wi
require full length sticks, but handy low stool

need only half-match length

Doll furniture, however
isn’t the only thing that
be made from th
milk covers. Encour
age little girls to
their imagination an
to bend and fol
these caps into a
sorts of doll hats

   

(Continued on
page 590)

Nature Recreationists Are Both Born and Made

f HEN I WAS on the itiner-
Want faculty of the Na-

tional Recreation Associ-
ation in Pittsburgh, I visited the boxing class of a
Carnegie Steel worker. He was laborer by day
but had energy enough to lead boys at night. On
the walls Of his club room were pictures of past
club members, including Jack Dempsey. This was
a form Of hero worship that seems very much
worth while. He was emphasizing clean living,
fresh air, sportsmanship and other characteristics
which we think of in best boxers.

I was so impressed with the idea of hero wor-
ship that I decided to use it in my work at Massa-
chusetts State College. Hence, I have an album in
which I place the photographs of student majors in
Recreation and also newspaper clippings of their
activities and attainments in their field of endeavor.
Each year I bring this album forth and tell the
new students about the accomplishments of recent
students whom they already know. It has so hap-
pened that each graduate has become a pioneer in
a certain line of recreation. I have already written
Up that phase of the story for the April 1940 num-
ber of RECREATION.

The value of keeping such a record has come
home to me recently in the untimely passing Of
Robert Salisbury Cole, who was the first one in
this album, and possibly the first student of Massa-
chusetts State College to give his life for his coun—
try in this war.

There is a greater reason for submitting the life
of Bob Cole for publication. The story of his life,
although brief, is an outstanding example of “As
the Twig Is Bent.” To me it seems exceedingly
desirable, especially during these days, to keep an
anecdotal record of each worker in any recreation
system. It was through such an effort that I was
able to give a detailed account of Bob’s life, which
I am sure was a great comfort to his mother and
which will be an inspiration to
students who major in the rec-
reation field in the future. I am
submitting the biography,
therefore, not so much because
it is Bob Cole, although that in
itself would be sufficient rea-
son, but that his life and record

ROBERT SALISBURY COLE
I9 I 8 - I942

In this month's issue of the magazine,
we are substituting for Cap'n Bill's
usual Column of Nature-Grams his
beautiful tribute to Robert Salisbury
Cole, a graduate of his courses at
Massachusetts State College, and a
recreation worker of whom the entire
recreation movement may be proud.

can be an example for the keep-
ing of a similar kind of record
by all recreation supervisors.

Robert Salisbury Cole

Robert Salisbury Cole was born May 2, 1918,
in Springfield, Massachusetts. His mother, Kath-
arine Hillier Cole, is a kindergarten teacher at the
Westfield State Teachers College. His father,
Dennis Moore Cole,-was a graduate of Bowdoin,
and while attending college was sent on scientific
expeditions. He was one of the first Americans
to explore the Grand Falls of Labrador. Bob Cole,
by inheritance and by environment, was destined
to be an outdoor leader.

Bob’s first five summers were spent in a wilder-
ness camp on Big Pond in Otis. Here he learned
to sit still in a canoe, to dig worms for fishing,
and to help his father dress fish. When three years
old he would cut down poisonous mushrooms with
a wooden hatchet and take home the edible ones.
He learned to recognize thirteen varieties.

The death Of his father in March, 1923, was a
great loss.

Seven summers in boys’ camps, including Camp
VValdron- and Becket, continued the training of his
early interest. By twelve he could handle a canoe
in open water and had camped on Belknap and
Cardigan mountains. After graduating from West-
field High School in 1935, he spent a summer as
junior leader at Camp Black Point, Ticonderoga,
New York, giving instruction in sailing. Here he
passed the Red Cross senior lifesaving tests.

In high school Bob became absorbed in the
study of radio and spent his spare time for four
winters in building and repairing radios. He was
electrician and stage manager for the Dramatic
Club, was a member of the tennis and rifie teams,
and was president Of the Outing Club. He was
given the Kitteredge Scholarship to attend college.

When he entered Massachu-
setts State College in the fall
of 1935, it was natural for him
to gravitate to the Outing Club.
His major sport was swim-
ming and he took an extracur-
ricular course in skiing.

The summers of _1936 and

579

580 NATURE RECREATIONISTS ARE BOTH BORN AND MADE

1937 were spent as a leader at Black Point where
he instructed in rifiery and woodcraft. A great
deal of his time was spent in the outpost camps at
Putnam and Knob Ponds in the Adirondacks,
showing the campers how to make themselves at
home in the woods. At the end of the summer of
1937 he spent a week with members of the Inter-
collegiate Outing Club Association camping and
mountain climbing in the Mt. Marcy region.

In his sophomore year Bob was elected to the
Maroon Key, a sophomore honorary society. He
continued his former interests and worked as in-
structor for Boy Scout Tr00p 504, North Am-
herst. He attended Paul Lamere’s Ski School in
\Vhitefield, New Hampshire, and the next year
assisted Larry Briggs, instructor at Camp Najerog
Ski School, \Vilmington, Vermont. Larry Briggs
once said of him: “I have only had three students
that would rank higher as skiers. Probably Bob
wouldn’t make a hit with professionals or maybe
with the boys that take chances
as Bob always plays safe!”

An All-Round Boy

It is evident that Bob Cole
was an all-round boy. His life
was a living example of the
glory of a clean spirit and a quality of wholesome-
ness. There was something rugged in his devo-
tion to his physical well-being, in his constant ap-
plication to the job at hand. His great interest in
the outdoors did not detract from his studies—in
fact they spurred him on in his intellectual pur-
suits. He won honors in both fields. It was a
natural sequence for him to major in Recreational
Planning and to take all the courses he could get
in nature guiding.

Bob’s summer in his junior year was divided
into blocks of experience. The first six weeks were
spent on a 400-mile road ride to and from Ft.
Ethan Allen with the Massachusetts State R.O.
T.C. Cavalry Unit. One week was spent climbing
and camping on the Great Range, New Hamp-
shire, with the Amherst College librarian. An-
other week was spent again with the I.O.C.A. in
the Mt. Marcy region. A month was devoted to
teaching boys at Black Point practical woodcraft
in outpost camps.

4')

'What better laboratory experience could a lad
have for his chosen profession? In his junior year
he wrote: “Hope to be a ranger naturalist, a ski
teacher, and, eventually, to take graduate study

"He who knows what sweets and
virtues are in the ground. the
waters, the heavens, and how to
come at these enchantments is the
rich and royal man."—Emetson.

  
        
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
     
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
  
 

in geology.” That year he joined Alpha Gamn
Rho fraternity.

Upon graduation in 1939, Bob quickly realize
his ambition. One of the first students in the 11
course in Recreation, he was the first nature gu'
in a Massachusetts Reservation. This was m :
possible by the Mt. Tom Reservation Commissi
and the advisory group of the National Park S
vice. Even before class day he was master of ce ‘
monies at the dedication of a new amphitheat
which had been constructed on the mountainsi
by the C.C.C. The outdoor theater was made in
terrace effect with the council fire in the center 0
the “stage.” Penobscot Indians provided color a
action suitable to the setting. According to t
Springfield Union, more than 3,000 persons e
joyed the opening program on Memorial Day.

Park tabulations showed that approximate
6,000 people used his self-guiding nature trail d1
ing the season while 800 attended his trips, and
total of 6,000 his campfire pr
grams. He had demonstrat
that the public was ready f
that kind of a service. It is nee
less to say that everyone was e
thusiastic about Bob’s acco
plishment, According to Cou1
Commission Chairman Charles W. Bray, t
Reservation Commission was “most pleased wi
the work.” Aaron C. Bragg wrote: “He has be
just the one _to start the work off in the r'
manner. He "has winning ways and an attracti
personality, and I hear only high praise about h'
and the faithful performance of his work.”

Two members of the college extension staff, \
participated in his public campfire program, sp
of his skill, poise, and leadership qualities. T
success of his program was expected to lead to
adoption of similar programs in the state forests
New England and the country. (The new nat
museum opened on the Mt. Tom Reservation °
the summer of 1942, near the entrance to B
nature trail, might well be named the “R0
Salisbury Cole Nature Museum”)

Nature Trail: for a Hotel

In the fall of 1939, Bob was employed by
Gordon Moody, manager of the Northfield Hon
and Chateau at East Northfield. That winter I
laid out trails and was ski instructor. In a lett
dated October 7, Bob wrote, “The guests sit insi

(Continued on page 589)

A Laugh a Day

By HELEN CHRISTINE BENNETT

F LAUGHTER could be ordered by prescription at
the corner drug store, any doctor would pre-
scribe not one but many laughs every day.

What a dose laughter is, a combination of stimulus

like that of vitamin tablets plus the relaxation of

bromides. You don't believe it? Well, just read
the doctors and see what
happens when you laugh.

Aristotle knew away back

in ancient times and he

classed laughter with exer-
cise. “Laugher,” he in-
sisted, “is a bodily exer-
cise precious to health.”
Regarding laughter as
exercise is still a new no—
tion after 2,300 years. Ap-
parently Aristotle didn’t
quite get it across. But to-
day, with every worth-
while American keen on
the health trail, laughter
acquires new significance.
A nation at war must be
healthy to win, and laugh-
ter becomes doubly “pre-
cious” as an‘ exercise to be
taken at any age, before or
after forty with safety.
Laughter trains only one
muscle, but what a muscle!

The diaphragm is a ne—

glected muscle in most ex-

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   

The poster reproduced
here. which measures
l3 x 20 inches and is
printed in an attrac-
tive shade of blue, may
be secured tree on re-
quest from Wilbur Nel-
sonl Director of the
Keep Well Crusade. in
care of the Institute of
Lite Insurance. 60 East

42nd St.I New York City.

 

"Each individual can contribute to his
own health protection and improvement by

adopting a few simple ways of healthful
living. Each of us must accept this re-
sponsibility and stick to it with a tirm
purpose. The total of individual respon-
sibility for personal health accepted by
millions of American men and women will
make an incalculable contribution to vic-
tory."-—Tbomas Partan, M.D.. Surgeon
General' U. 5. Public Health Service.

ercises, except deep breathing, which is the most
valuable of all exercises. But the diaphragm loves
to work and to work even harder than Ideep

Sitesar” SOME EACH: DAY

\ I.

Institute of Life Insurance

581

582 A LAUGH A DAY

breathing requires. If you don’t believe this, try it.
Sit down in an easy chair and have a laugh. Take
the funniest book you know of and read. Don’t
bottle up your response, laugh hard, out loud. If
a book won’t do it, try your favorite radio comed-
ian, or go to a movie—some people can laugh only
in company. Poor things, their laughter sense is
very limited. But get your laugh somehow—by
book or radio or just thinking over the last good
one you heard. Then let it have its way!

If you could apply an x-ray eye to your interior
at this happy moment you would see astonishing
results. Your diaphragm goes down, down, and
your lungs expand. You are taking into your body
more oxygen than usual and that oxygen passes
into the blood exposed for that fraction of a second
in your lungs. As you laugh the rate of exposure
to oxygen is doubled or tripled. Result—a surge
of power that runs through the entire body head
to toes—and a clearer feeling in the head. Your
entire motor system is given a lift—and likes it.

Dr. James J. Walsh, Medical
Director of Fordham University
School of Psychology, says,
“Few people realize that health
actually varies according to the
amount of laughter. So does
recovery. . . . Pe0ple who laugh
actually live longer than those
who do not laugh. Stimulus has
a survival factor. . . . Those who laugh are those
who live long and enjoy health. Possibly the
supreme physician of this day is Mickey Mouse l”

Laugh that off if you can. You can’t and if you
are keen on health you don’t want to. The five
cardinal points of a simple Keep Well Crusade
are: (I) Eat right, (2) Get your rest, (3) See
your doctor once a year, (4) Keep clean, (5) Play
'some each day.

Play—with laughter. Enjoy yourself. We are
solemn faced old Puritans still—and at the present
moment we have a lot of things to be solemn faced
about. So put laughter on your play schedule and
get your daily laughs.

on the job.

The Institute of Life Insurance has launched a
nation-wide “Keep Well Crusade” designed to
make America aware of the war value of public
health and the fundamentals essential to maintain-
ing good health.

In the first few months of the campaign, 150
local committees were set up by associations repre—
senting 22,000 of the National Association of Life

.mittee then secured the cooperation of the South

"Play some each day. Romp with
the family, visit with friends, take
walks, play games, or do whatever
you like to give your mind and
body a rest from the daily grind
'All work and no

play makes Jack a dull boy.

Underwriters. These committees have placed hun- 1
dreds of thousands of the posters, “Just By Keep-
ing Well You Can Help Win This War,” and mil-
lions of leaflets carrying the same story. More
than half of the homes of America have been
reached through radio announcements, and hun-
dreds of meetings have been addressed by Keep
Well Crusade chairmen and speakers.

An outstanding piece of work has been done by
the Atlanta, Georgia, committee. It started its
campaign by placing the leaflet describing it on
every desk in every ofl‘ice in the city. The com-

   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
    
   

Georgia Central Railroad which put 6,000 leaflets
in its pay roll envelopes and placed a poster in
every station waiting room on the line. The Super-
intendent of Schools agreed to have a Crusade
leaflet taken home by every school child. The Boy
Scouts helped in a mass poster and leaflet distri-
bution job. Posters were placed in every school-
room in the city, as well as in all public places.
The Chamber of Commerce sent
out a special bulletin to its
members.

Several communities have set
as their objective a hundred per
cent coverage of homes. Th
Hastings, Nebraska, committe
has placed a Crusade leaflet i
every home in the city and als
in the hands of every one of the 10,000 workers a
the Navy plant. Practically the same goal has bee
attained in Fort Wayne, Indiana, where the cit
utilities distributed 35,000 leaflets by putting on
in every water bill. In Oakland, California
through the cooperation of doctors and dentist
throughout the East Bay region, the leaflet wa
put as an enclosure in all monthly statements t
patients. This committee also secured permissi01
of the Yosemite National Park directors to put u
posters in the Park, visited by thousands of va
cationists.

In Indianapolis, Indiana, the committee i
charge made a “ten—strike” when it received .
offer from the Street Railways Company to pla
car cards on the Crusade in the street cars.
similar plan was followed in Chicago, and no
nearly 2,000 car cards have been placed in stree
cars. In Lansing, Michigan, the Department 0
Health,~with the approval of the Governor, p
one of the leaflets in every state employee’s pa
envelope.

 

(Continued on page 588)

Recreation Pioneers in the Tropics

RINIDAD, southern-

most island of the

West Indies, is a
sportsman’s paradise with
its year-round mild climate, coves and beaches for
sailing, fishing, or bathing, and open savannas—
fields ideal for team games. Yet the 3,000 Ameri-
cans engaged in constructing one of the largest
U. S. Army bases at Fort Read needed “some-
thing to do” in their spare time. They found that
they could not picnic on the palm-fringed beaches
because of the lack of transportation, nor even get
up a ball game. Bats and baseballs were unknown
to the majority of the island’s 450,000 population
(mixed European and African races with a few
East Indian coolies) whose native sports were
equally strange to the Americans.

Even at the Fort Read administrative headquar-
ters located at Dock Site in Port of Spain, the
capital of Trinidad, there was no recreation pro-
gram. But with the advent of war, the influx of
Pilgrims (newly arrived employees) had become
so great that a combined canteen and temporary
recreation hall were provided. Because of the con-
stant shifting of employees between Port of Spain
and Fort Read, an organized and sustained pro-
gram was impractical. Instead, boxing matches
were arranged from time to time for different
work shifts, native vaudeville shows presented, and
trips to beaches and other points of interest made
in company cars. The recreation hall soon became
a popular “drop-in” spot for ping-pong, quiet
games, and reading. Recently it has been com-
pletely remodelled, and adult education classes
added to its program.

Meanwhile, Fort Read, twenty miles away, was
growing. The American “executive” staff of 3,000
and the 9,000 native laborers cleared land for an
airfield, runway, barracks, mess halls, hospital,
office buildings, carpenter shop, railway siding,
warehouses, etc. As Fort
Read’s quarters were com-
pleted, Dock Site executive
departments and employees
moved in. A two-story bar-
racks became, again tempo-
rarily, a recreation hall.

At last, in November,
1941, a permanent recrea-

Americans working in Trinidad make
the most .otthis sportsman's paradise

Calypso, the newspaper published daily by
the Recreation Department. meets the needs
of the Americans for home and world news. so
slow in coming from the outside world. One
section is devoted to local camp news and
announcements from company executives.
The paper. which has a circulation of 3.500.
got its name from singers who traveled from
village to village spreading the news in song.

tion center was completed
at Fort Read. Six bowl-
ing alleys and a billiard
room with a soft drink
canteen between are located on the lower floor,
while upstairs is a general purpose auditorium as
well as the director’s office, ping-pong tables, and
a second soft drink canteen. Near the canteen are
tables and stools for lunch hour use. The remain-
ing 'second floor space is divided into several
rooms including a comfortably furnished library,
community room, and office of the editor of
C alypso, the daily paper published by the Recrea-
tion Department. All furniture for the recreation
building was designed by the director and con-
structed in the company carpenter shop.

Open daily from nine in the morning until
eleven at night, and for dances until one in the
morning, the recreation building is in constant
use. The bowling alleys—manned by native pin
boys—operate fourteen hours a day. An average
of 3,000 bowlers use the alleys each week with
forty eight-man bowling teams competing for in-
dividual and team trophies. About 200 table ten-
nis enthusiasts play each week, and the billiard
room averages 1,200 weekly. Outdoor sports in-
clude softball, horseshoes, and handball. Twice a
month a party is held in the gaily decorated recre-
ation hall where about 300 people dance to the
music of a native orchestra, and are served party
refreshments from the canteen.

Plans for the future include adult education
classes and a twelve-acre playground at Fort Read,
the blueprint of which has been approved. It
shows a softball field, baseball diamond, basket-
ball court, six handball courts, two volleyball
courts, three badminton courts, horseshoe courts,
six shuffleboard courts. An outdoor shell f0r
musical and dramatic groups and a children’s play
area also are part of the plans. The entire play-
ground will be fioodlighted
with the exception of the
children’s playfield.

Final proof that the
Americans made the most
of their tropical playground
came on Thanksgiving Day
when the Fort Read “Bush-

( Continued on page 590)
583

WORLD AT PLAY

 

THE Commons, Open
Spaces, and Footpaths
Preservation Society
of England has been
giving special consideration to postwar planning.
Its Journal for November, 1941, contained the text
of a 20-page memorandum on the subject, com-
prising various proposals designed to enlarge and
secure the rights and privileges of the public in
the countryside. This has been submitted to the
Ministry of \Vorks and Buildings. The memor-
andum offers recommendations regarding Com-
mons, Village Greens, Public Rights of \Vay, Na-
tional Parks, and similar subjects.

On the subject of Footpaths, the memorandum
recommends that all planning schemes should
make adequate provision for walkers, both in'the
environs of towns and in the open country, in-
cluding new cross-country paths, river and stream—
side walks, and access to special viewpoints. It
also recommends that no road improvement
scheme be sanctioned which does not provide for
a footpath along the road.

More Walking Facilities
for Postwar England

 

 

THREE years of “in-
terest finding” at Cor~
nell University, in-

volving the sending of
recreational interest check lists to incoming fresh-

men, are showing results, according to the October,
1942, Bulletin of the Association of College Unions.
\Vhen replies showed an interest in folk dancing,
a meeting was called from which there developed
a series of eight folk dancing classes varying in
size from ten to eighty. Similarly, interest in
group singing has led to an hour of good old-
fashioned singing in the music room of the Uni-
versity under the direction of a student leader. A
, series of music appreciation hours is being held
each Saturday morning with an attendance of from
thirty to fifty.

Cornell Finds New
Student Interests

 

THROUGH its long—
range program to ex-
pand public services

through the use of tax-
reverted land, St. Paul, Minnesota, according to

Public Management, March 1942, is providing new
playgrounds and recreation fields, city park addi-

584

St. Paul BeneEts By
Tax-Reverted Land

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
   

tions, and sites for a branch public library and A
training ground for firemen. The program was
outlined in 1938 by the City Planning Board and-
was put into effect under a 1941 state law author-
izing cities to acquire such land without compen-
sation on condition it be used exclusively for pub-
lic purposes. Under this law St. Paul has take
over 337 parcels of land totaling 64 acres, val -
at $120,000. About one-third of the land has be
put to use.

In drawing up the program, the Commissione
of Finance in 1938 prepared a map for the Cit
Planning Board showing the location of the la .
Then the Planning Board, in cooperation witl
other departments of the city government, made
list of the areas to be withheld from sale beca
they would be more valuable for public use. T
land was withheld from sale, and under the 194
law the program was placed in operation.

.__.____....___.._—L._
Music in Austin At-

tracts Large Numbers

THE 1941 report 0
the Austin, Texa
Recreation Depar
ment tells of wee .
sings and Sunday night gospel sings which attra
large numbers of people. During that year the D
partment sponsored four instrumental units
men’s municipal band, boys’ municipal band, a:
the junior and senior colored bands.

THE 1941 annual
port of the Depa
ment of Recreation 1
White Plains, N
York, states that in 1941 there were seven d'
ferent girls’ clubs operating in White Plains un
the sponsorship of the Department. Each club 11
a membership of about fifteen girls, seven years
older. Excellent results have been secured thro '_
the activities of these clubs which have the coo .
ation of churches, private organizations, a
schools. Inspections of industrial plants, hospit
and places of historic interest are a part of
program.

Co-recreation is another important activity, a
each week a number of such events are held

church halls, schools, picnic grounds, and at t
Administration Building. Excursions and outin

to the beaches and wooded areas are included. Th

Girls’ Clubs in
White Plains

WORLD AT PLAY 585

events are planned and carried through by a com-
mittee of the girls themselves, who in this way are
earning how to make business arrangements and
arry their projects out under the guidance of the
‘I epartment.

  
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
     
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  

Play Areas in Minneapolis—The fifty-ninth
nnual report of the Minneapolis Board of Park
ommissioners, covering the year 1941, states that
laygrounds were conducted at thirty-five loca-
ions—nineteen for twelve months and sixteen for
ine months—with an attendance of 1,865,082.
Such activities as tennis, swimming, and winter
ports also attracted almost 4,000,000 participants.

Volunteer Leadership—In the 1941 report of
he Recreation Board of Greenwich, Connecticut, a
‘tatement appears that 342 individuals have given
olunteer service on various committees. These
ommittees include not only general and neighbor-
ood advisory committees, but also committees on
'arious activities.

Free Movies for the Parks of Waco—During
941 the Waco, Texas, Recreation Department
rovided free park movies one night a week each
t six different locations from May 3 through
eptember 27. They were provided under con-
act with a private company but all films were pre-
iewed by a representative of the Department.

Forest Fire Control in National Parks ——In
11 article in the October-December issue of Na-
°nal Parks M agazine, the statement is made that
he averageiacreage burned during the past ten
'ears on National Park Service lands through
eptember 30th was 9,168 acres. The area reported
urned this year, to date, is 4,169, a very en-
uraging decrease.

Participation in the Recreation Program—
he 1941 report of the Greenwich, Connecticut,
ecreation Board breaks down registration of its
rticipants by districts and indicates the percent-
e of the population of each district participating
the recreation program. The rate of participa-
n for the different districts runs from 5 per cent
I 90 per cent. For Greenwich as a whole the reg-
tered participants represent about 4.4 per cent of
e total p0pulation. This is the same figure as
at'given for 1940, but there has been a decided
ange in participation for the individual districts.
some, participation has increased considerably,
I others it has decreased.

Victory Book Campaign—The Victory Book
Campaign for 1943 will be conducted from Janu-
ary 5 to March 5. Sponsoring the drive to obtain
“more and better books” for service men are the
American Library Association, the American Red
Cross, and the United Service Organizations.

The campaign this year will stress quality and
quantity, with emphasis on the former. For this
reason no official quota will be publicly announced,
except in general terms. Actually, the unan-
nounced aim will be to reach or exceed he quota
of ten million books announced in last year’s
campaign.

Juvenile Delinquency in England —- More
than half the crimes in England during the first
year of the war, it is reported, were committed by
young boys. During that time a survey revealed
the number of children under fourteen convicted
of offenses was 41 per cent higher than in the
previous year. The increase in the age group of
fourteen to seventeen was given as 22 per cent.

An Institute for Military Studies—Through
the instrumentality of Daniel M. Davis, Director
of Recreation, Wilmette, Illinois, New Trier
Township has an institute of military studies as a
part of the Physical Fitness Division of the Wil-
mette Civilian Council, in cooperation with the
New Trier Board of Education and the Institute
of Military Studies of the University of Chicago.
This pre-induction military training course is of-
fered men and boys sixteen years of age and over. -
The program of the first course started on May 4,
1942, and consists of an evening meeting of three
hours’ duration one night each week for a period
of ten weeks. The course includes organization
of the Army, military law, first aid, map work,
rifle marksmanship, new infantry drill regulations,
gas protection, scouting and patrolling, elementary
tactics,.and tactical exercises. The courses, which
are being given for one hundred men, are held at
the Field House of the New Trier High School

gymnasium.

Community Nights Feature Music —— The
Department of Recreation, Los Angeles County,
California, and the Music Lovers’ Club of East
Los Angeles are sponsoring a series of community
evening programs which are proving highly popu-
lar. Community singing is led by professional
singers, followed by a program of music and en-

586 RECREATION AND SPIRITUAL POWER IN WARTIME

Junior Arts and Activities

for the elementary

teacher
and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils

C
THE MOST COMPLETE
EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these
two monthly
publications

can help you

0
Send 25c for Sample Copies to

Iunior Arts and Activities
740 Rush Street. Chicago. III.

 

tertainment made available through the coopera-
tion of musicians and vocalists of the East Los
Angeles district.

To Youth Serving Organizations—One of
the recommendations made by Dr. William E.
Wickenden, president of the Case School of Ap-
plied Sciences, Cleveland, Ohio, in a report to the
Occupational Planning Committee of Greater
Cleveland, has to do with youth serving organiza-
tions. “It is suggested that oppoi'tunities be pro-
vided for informal exploration by .young folks of
various occupational fields; that they be aided in
developing right attitudes toward work and recre-
ation ; and that they have open to them the means
for stabilizing social relationships and for main—
taining an interest in further education and indus—
trial training.”

Trips to South America via Imagination——
Children from ten to fourteen years of age were
invited by the Buffalo, New York, Museum of
Science to join the Do-Something Club and take
an imaginary trip to South America last summer.
The trip, with “The South American Way” as its

 
  
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
  

Recreation and Spiritual Power

in Wartime
(Continued from page 546)

In contrast with the wild tumult of Eur
which it is a simulacrum.

He beholds a peaceful people, living upon
toral of an indigo sea, perfectly happy, fr
the pressure of stern necessity, living u
bountiful nature. ’
And cultivating the arts of peace—music,

ing, literature, religion!

It may be too quiescent for us, but the efio ‘
reaction, is a natural, perhaps an inevitabl

There must be a world, after this War, in ,
all men will reap the harvest their geni '
been sowing these past generations.

There must be a world in which life will not -
but expand.
A world in which peace will not connote I

terval between wars, or a period of ut .
haustion after a war.

But rather the time when the winter is
when the ground breaks through the fr .
has bound it like iron; when the rains
to fall and the sun to glow; and wh
heart warms to the freshness of the new
leaves!

There must be a world in which at long last
has been heritage of the few—in books, in
in play, may be the possession of all.

I return, then, to the question with which I u s-

This Congress a work of supererogation, an a»
tial during the War?

I hope that I have shown that it is of the
stuff of our cause—at the heart of what we,
believe ourselves free, who believe in free
want and will have of the world!

theme, called for morning activities Mo .
through Fridays inclusive, with the travelers
ing just outside of the Museum whenever .
weather permitted—inside on rainy days. A ch
of 50 cents was made for badge and materi
Articles made—Indian headdresses, gaucho - ‘
shell bracelets, were claimed by their owners '.
the exhibit at the end of the six weeks’ 
Field trips took the members to the Indian ca
in Delaware Park and the zoo.

 

CLARENCE E. BREWER 587

Detroit Executive Resigns

 

CLARENCE E. BREWER

ALL THE FRIENDS of Clarence E. Brewer will be
sorry to learn that he has resigned from his
position as General Superintendent of the Depart—
ment of Parks and Recreation in Detroit, Michi-
gan, because of ill health, his resignation to be ef-
fective January I, 1943. For 21 years Clarence E.
Brewer has served in connection with the recrea—
tion and park work of Detroit, Michigan. Mr.
Brewer began to work in the recreation movement
when he was a college student at Ohio State Uni-
versity about 34 years ago. For many years he has
been active in the national recreation movement.
Few persons have as wide an experience and as
great knowledge in the recreation field. Mr.
Brewer’s many friends will hope that he will soon
be completely restored to his usual health.

A Bicycle Roller Race—One of the entertain-
ing and exciting features at the annual Sport Night
promoted by the Union County, New Jersey, Park
System was a bicycle roller race. Large dials were

DIAMOND

Products at the Front

Diamond tool steel that used
to go into the famous pitch-
ing horseshoe line is now

going into tools for victory.

q

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4b|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

 

"The Rec"

(Continued from page 571)

the rounds of the “resorts” left the Rec to visit
one of these places. In about an hour they were
back, complaining that the place was thick with
smoke, and people were swearing and drinking.
“So we came back here.” Give young people a
choice and most of them will choose clean and
wholesome fun.

The Rec is in its second year and bids fair to
fill an increasingly larger place in the life of Troy
students.

The Joseph Lee Memorial Contest for

Recreation Literature
(Continued from page 567)

Richmond, Virginia. Treasurer: Jacob W. Feld—
man, West Hartford, Connecticut. Members at
Large: Charles E. Reed, New York City; Ralph
B. McClintock, Fort Wayne, Indiana; P. V.
Gahan, St. Petersburg, Florida; H. S. Kennedy.
Summit, New Jersey, and Thomas W. Lantz,
Reading, Pennsylvania.

constructed indicating the mileage covered by'con-
testants riding bicycles mounted on rolle'rs.

588 THREE CHEERS FOR THE RED, WHITE AND BLUE

“Fun for Threesomes”

PITY the poor party leaders—too many girls
and not enough boys! Or too many boys

and not enough girls. What to do?

0 You’ll find the answers in Parties Plus—Fun
for Threesomes, the third and last in Ethel

Bowers‘ series on party fun.

Nothing’s impossible in the line of three-way
fun with the help of this booklet! Folk games

and musical games, country dances and old-

time square sets too!

0 All the games and activities are adapted to
groups of two men and a girl, or two girls
and a man. More than forty different activi-

ties are included.

Send 50 cents to the NRA today for your
copy of Fun for Threesomes. The booklet

is a “must” for party leaders these days.

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY

 

Three Cheers for the Red. White
and Blue

(Continued from page 555)
' Pledge Test

One at a time, take the players into another
room and after showing them the American flag,
tell them to give the Pledge of Allegiance. This
is likely to be a bit embarrassing, since although
most of us can say the Pledge in a group, we often
find it difficult to get every word correct when
trying to say it alone—and this should not be 50!
Anyone who fails to say the Pledge correctly
should be isolated with a copy of the Pledge to
study until he (or she) can say it glibly.

Flag Spelldown

Line the players up as for a spelldown, part on
one side, part on another. Ask them the questions
rapidly, giving them but little time to reply. Ex-
plain that they should know everything about their
beloved flag so well that they shouldn’t need to
think. If they can’t answer at once they must sit
down or drop out. A delightful prize for the win-
ner of this would be a silk flag in standard, which
could occupy an important place on the hall or

  
  
 
    
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
  

living-room table at home. Here are some q 
tions (you may think of more) :

1. Who wrote the Pledge to the Flag? ,
A. Francis Bellamy— August 1892, in B
(James B. Upham also credited.)

2. Who designed the American flag?
A. Francis Hopkinson, also a signer of the '
laration of Independence.

3. How should the flag be carried in a parade?
A. Upright, at the marching right of other '

4. How should it be displayed on wall or window.
A. Blue field uppermost and at Observer's lcf

5. What may be laid upon the flag?

A. Only the Bible.

6. \Vhen displayed with other flags on a staff.
position should the American flag have?

A. Always at the'peak, above other flags, ex
during religious services aboard ship, w
the church flag takes the place of honor.

7. “Then used in the chancel of a church, w I
should flag be placed?

A. At clergyman’s right, as he faces the co
gation.

8. \Vhat day is set aside to honor the flag?

A. Flag Day, June 14th.
9. \Vhat do we see in the flag that we also see w
we go to the movies?
A. Stars.

10. On what occasions may a flag be used as dra
A. Never.

Other patriotic games may be introduced if \
sired, selected from those in the game section
the back of the book. And there is no better
to end a patriotic party than by gathering arou
piano, radio, or victrola and joining in singing .
of the patriotic songs with which every Ameri
is familiar.

A Laugh a Day
(Continued from page 582)

Nation-wide publicity has brought the Cru .
to the attention of millions of people. Posters ha
been translated into several foreign languages a
carried in many of the foreign language papers
the country.

“The Keep Well Crusade,” says the Instit
of Life Insurance, “is a continuing work whi
must be carried on for the duration of the war.
is not a matter of a single campaign, and its r
benefits will come only from sustained effort.
more work is done and the Crusade continu
more and more projects will be added everywhe
and people will be made increasingly conscious i
this vital part of their personal war efforts.”
Extracts from article in Life Association New
November 1942.

  
 
   

 
   

   
 

', vorr nu:

Aristocrat
. TENNIS BALL

   
  
   

   

f. .
Pet . No.

1.575.388: ’
1.964.008. ‘W -

 
   
 
  
   

  

V011” Enduro
CBZ-V BASK ETBALL

~

and reputation.

' von' cuz-v

Metal l2inJ
SOFT ALL

Pat. No.
3.491.592:
2.]27JB9:
2.060.w?.

   

VOIT Regulation
J Vl- V VOLLEYBALL
Pat. No. 1.543.724: 2.183.”

 

Nature Recreationists Are Both
Born and Made

(Continued from page 580)

and knit or put on their rubbers and sit on the
porch, figuratively speaking.”

Placing nature guide service alongside of golf
was a new departure for hotels. I recall most
clearly Bob’s miniature maple sugar camp in the
lobby, with real steam coming out of the sugar
hou‘se. His geological rock pile at the entrance to
the nature trail is something that might be copied
by all mountain hotels. An increasing number of
guests attended his nature walks. When leaving
for home they would say: “Where is Bob?” (It is
to his credit that he not only sold himself but also
sold a program.)

In the fall of 1940 Bob was to.be employed
permanently at the Northlield House, and he had
also been invited to teach science at Mt. Hermon
School. He had a brilliant outlook.

Bob had superb health, and he took a just pride
in keeping himself always in the best of shape. His
character, too, was equally robustcand vigorous.
There was about him a sense of positive goodness,
a manly righteousness which endeared him to all.
He had an unselfish loyalty.

 

Von Pnuematic Molding Technique requires
no solid forms—produces perfect sphericity of
ballsuends dead spotswadds uniformity and
strength in construction. It's success in pro-
ducing bullet-proof fuel cells for combat planes
is unique and outstanding.

VOIT Athletic Equipment, while made to can-
form to government restrictions, assures

J P_‘_N°J.mlm__2lm_m excellent quality worthy of the Von name

Writefor illustrated price list
R-l showing complete line of
available items.

if...» ATHLETIC

‘m EQUIPMENT

Rm :1 I l in MM ta?“ [53:1 in"! St to: Males. tat"

own

3mg" l!!! I Illit' l“ W231; 

 " ., \.

  

k“.

"t u
.o \
\‘x

    
   
   
      
  
         
      
 
 

Fuselage
Cell

 

Then Came the War

I shall never forget seeing him, that fall, coming
around the corner of Triangle Street to my home.
The majority of students were pacifists at that
time, but Bob had come to say good-bye. He felt
his country needed him. He was on his way to
Westiield to say good-bye to his mother. I could
not say what I felt.

Last summer a clipping fell out of a letter. It
said that Lieut. Robert S. Cole, twenty-four-year-
old Westiield youth, was killed when his fighter
plane crashed during a training Eight in Florida.
Bob had been training aviators. It hardly seemed
as though I could carry on as chairman of a meet-
ing, yet I knew that he would expect me to.

Robert Salisbury Cole had a short but a highly
successful career. It is the fortune of very few
people to inspire the affection that Bob did among
so many friends of all kinds. The best and highest
type of Massachusetts State College graduate had
been cut off when there was everything for which
to live. We who carry on have a great responsi-
bility. \Vhat the world calls success is temporal:
the spirit of victory is immortal.

Have you seen

Home Play in Wartime?

The second edition of this little classic on stay-
at-home recreation is specially designed for
local use—it's an appropriate New Year's gift
for the families in your community who are
"staying home" for the duration. (And there's
a back-cover note about the services of local
recreation departments!)

This new edition is available at even more ad-
vantageous rates for quantity orders than the
first edition:

25 to 500 copies . . . . . . . . . .3 cents each
500 or more, at the rate of $25 per LOGO

Because of the cost of handling.
it is still necessary to charge
l0 cents for single copies.

Send your order today

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION
3l5 Fourth Avenue New York City

 

Homemade Toys
(Continued from page 578)

Milk bottle top creations can range from wide
flappy brimmed hats to trim, turned—up sailors.

Other Ideas

Magazine covers, mounted on heavy cardboard,
can be cut into intricate or simple jigsaw puzzles.
Simple pictures of familiar things, cut into very
large pieces will delight small children. For a two-
faced jigsaw paste two picture postcards together,
back to back, and then cut into as many pieces as
desired. Keep these in a labeled envelope, and
start a jigsaw collection.

To teach your child to tell time, make him a big
clock face out of cardboard. Use numbers from
an old calendar and make hands from slender
pieces of stiff cardboard. Attach the hands with a
brass fastener so they will move easily.

If your children like paper dolls, they probably
often mourn their short lives—the slender necks
are so easily torn. Give favorite paper dolls dura-
bility by gluing them to scraps of oilcloth left
over from shelf and table coverings.

HOMEMADE TOYS

Dolls

Children should have an Opportunity to beco
familiar with as many different kinds of dolls
possible—especially the old favorites that
pleased children for many years. The rag dolf
one example—not the plump, stuffy creature t
can be bought in any department store, but a r
homemade rag doll. Stuffed with cotton, a bab
discarded sleeping suit makes an excellent foun
tion. A beret or cap will provide a very good h
if a little stuffing and a back are added. Hands :
feet may be embroidered or sewed on. After 1;
doll is completed, dress it simply, as lifelike .
possible. -

Many people hesitate to tackle doll making b
cause of the difficulty of painting the faces. Th'
need not be a problem if you remember to bunch
baby’s features together and to place them be!
the center of the face. Dry rouge is best for ma
ing pink checks.

Try making a family of clothespin dolls, so
rornshuck dolls with cornsilk hair, and cuddl
dolls, only as big as your palm, out of pow
puffs from the dime store. Painting faces on pe
nut shells will turn them into amusing dolls if yo
stick them on the end of your fingers. Very you1
children will love stories with the peanut hea
illustrating the story, and older children en jo
“minding” the little ones by playing this ga'
with them.

Save empty spools, odd buttons, scraps of clot
or yarn—any waste materials that have play poss
bilities—and bring a box of them out on a rai
day or a day when your child has to stay in be
Pebbles, acorns, pine cones, and other items fro:
the out of doors are good to keep on hand for d ‘
days.

If any of the articles mentioned in these suge
tions are on the salvage list in your town, take t
idea and apply it to some other item. Soon yo
will be seeing endless toy possibilities in all kin
of scraps. Stimulate a similar interest in yo
children. Whenever possible let them make th
own toys. Making toys is as much fun as playi
with them, and gives them an added opportunit
to express their creative ability.

Recreation Pioneers in the Tropics
(Continued from page 583)

masters” battled the Dock Site “Centipedes” be
. fore an audience of 8,000 in the first America ,
football game ever played on the Island 0

Trinidad.

ELY’S FIRST ANNUAL REPORT

EIy’s First Annual Report

HE RECREATION BOARD of Ely, Minnesota, has

I been granted its budget request for 1943.

l$5,135 is the amount allotted—an increase of 43

per cent over Ig42—and the Board is looking for-
ward to the coming year with confidence.

Ely’s recreation program is one Year old but it
boasts a legally appointed Recreation Board and a
year-round Director of Recreation, Stanley E.
Modin, and it points with pride to the cooperation
given it during its infancy by municipal and
private groups.

From June 15 to August 15, 1942, the Recrea-
tion Board’s first report states, four playgrounds
were operated with a total attendance of about
11,000 children. In addition, the program was in

I operation at Shagawa Beach where many children
were taught to swim. Badminton, volleyball, and
I horseshoe courts were installed at the beach.

‘ The Recreation Board has organized clubs in
drama, photography and archery, and has a Baton
Club. There is also a Funster Club whose objec-
tive is the stimulation of interest in recreational
and social activities among the girls of the city.
This club among its other activities sponsored a
Christmas dance attended by 300 high school and
junior college students, and arranged a Christmas
program for little children. One particularly in—
teresting group sponsored by the Board is made
up of over forty women who meet in a craft class.
Among the articles made by the members are book—
cases, knick knack shelves, coffee tables, book
ends, ash trays, end tables, tie racks, fruit bowls,
and many other household items. This group made
a valuable contribution by repairing broken toys
for distribution at Christmas time. Dozens of
dolls were given new life, and a special committee
made clothes for the dolls.

“Swing and sway” dances are held twice a
month for high school students in the community
center auditorium. Dancing is permitted from
8:00 to 11:00, and a small charge is made to pay
for the orchestra. A number of old-time dances
were held during the year, and instruction in social
and folk dancing was given 339 boys and girls.

Four game rooms are maintained—two in the
community center and two in school buildings.
Each room is equipped for table tennis, and a
number of board games are rotated from one room
to another. These include checkers, chess, domi—
noes, cribbage, lotto, tiddly-winks, Michigan kitty,
pick-up-sticks, India, tenpins, Chinese checkers,

.a

CANADIAN
NATURE

We believe that Recre-
ation Magazine has
thousands of readers
who would be inter-
ested in the fascinating
nature stories, wonder-
ful photographs, draw-
ings and color plates
that appear in each

issue of CANADIAN
NATURE —- the maga-

zine which captures the
hearts of everyone in-
terested in nature and
the outdoors. Parents, educators, librarians and na-
ture lovers, praise and recommend it. An ideal gift
and a magazine which is needed in every home,
school and library.

CANADIAN NATURE is issued in January, March,
May, September and November. Volume 5 for 1943
will contain 200 pages, 90 articles, 35 color plates,
160 photographs, 220 figure drawings. An Annual
Index is bound in the November issue. The maga-
zine enjoys wide United States school use. The
articles are suitable to the whole of North America.
There are subscribers in 43 States.

Directors of Boys’ Clubs, Play Directors, Camp
Counselors, and others will find practical help in this
unique magazine. Send $1.25 for one year.

NATURE
ACTIVITIES

By J. A. Partridge and
D. E. Farwell. Published
by Canadian Nature
Magazine. 25 cents. 32
pages of inspiration for
teachers of natural sci-

IVA'I‘L'J R E

 

ence. An indispensable
source of ideas. includ-
ing over 200 illustra-
tions, suggesting activi-
ties and projects in na-
ture. Arranged in five
chapters according to
seasons. Full or practi-
cal ideas and sugges-
tions to help you plan
an interesting course 01'
.um- ? study. Send 25 cents for

’ a copy.

\ \llllll -\l'l lllTIH-i

b h nu“ Winn-"ulna." Hm "par

 

Money-Back Guarantee

Send coupon, with only $1.25 for one year’s subscrip-
tion. If you are not completely satisfied, after receiv-
ing the first issue, notify us within 10 days and your
money will be promptly refunded.

— — MAIL .TODAY — — — — — — — —

CANADIAN NATURE MAGAZINE
I77 Jarvis Street, Toronto, Canada

I] Enclosed is $1.25 for one year's subscription to
CANADIAN NATURE—5 issues—on your money-
back guarantee in RECREATION Magaz1ne..

El Enclosed is 25 cents for one copy of NATURE
Acrrvlrras.

Name .................................................................................... ..

 

591

592 v WHAT I ACQUIRED AT PLAY

 

 

" Stars on Ice”

THE CAMP FIRE GIRLS of Greater New York
are sponsoring a benefit performance of “Stars
on Ice,” the hit icetravaganza now playing at the
Center Theatre in Rockefeller Center. The benefit
is scheduled for Thursday, January 14, at 8:30
P. at.

Proceeds from the show, which is produced by
Ice Queen Sonja Henie and Arthur M. \Virtz,
will be given to the summer camp fund for Greater
New York Camp Fire Girls.

Tickets may be purchased from the omce of the
Camp Fire Girls at I 10 East 42nd Street (MUrray
Hill 6-7128) or from the box ofiice of the Center
Theatre. Prices are $1.10, $1.65, $2.20, and $2.75.

parchesi, ring toss, six-man football, dart boards,
and a kit of twenty-five puzzles.

Special events in the Recreation Board’s pro-
gram have included a playground picnic, a Hal-
lowe’en party, camping, hikes, and picnics.

\Vinter activities have included skating at rinks
maintained at two of the playground areas, tobog-
ganing on the old golf course, with outdoor out-
ings, bonfires, and hockey.

What I Acquired at Play

(Continued from page 553)

shrunken, connected the two lakes and did a thriv-
ing business. The brook runs close by the grave-
yard where some of my boy friends lie in quiet
peace. The others are far away in equally quiet
resting places. Soon after I went away to school
most of the boys scattered to their diverse careers
and their varied experiences and fates. We never
were together again and only rarely did any of us
find one another. Two or three remained at home,
but the more ambitious and daring ones sought
their fortunes far away from the early scenes. I
hope that our youthful years of play together built
as much into their lives as was the case with me.
There were some things to regret, but not many.
For the most part our group-life together formed
the habits of our later life, shaped our characters,
gave us our expectations and ambitions, and every
one of us, I am convinced, carried away permanent
assets from those healthy, happy joyous years of
fellowship and play.

In one of our Quaker meetings an old man was
giving his “testimony.” He said: “I shall never

forget the dying words of my brother. He rais
up his head and said—he raised up his head a1
said.” Then after a pause the old man said:
am sorry, Friends, but the words have gone fr
me.” I can easily understand his dilemma. T
things one knew he would “never forget” somel o
slip away and are unexpectedly “gone” from t
memory. I have only picked up a few pebbles.
Isaac Newton would say, while an impenetra
ocean of events stretches out of sight. But it is
ocean that I sailed over once, and it was a gr
voyage with a splendid band of sailors and co:
panions. Charles Hamilton Sorley, in one of 11'
fine poems written in his youth, says: “I have
self I never yet have met.” We all have th
familiar self which all our friends know. But ther
is in us all a deeper inner me which nobody els
knows. M y group of boys, as we played togetlu
and did daring things together, helped me to bui
secretly and silently the hidden inner self whic

they very little suspected.

.An Overseas Worker "Lets His
Hair Drown"

(Continued from page 562)
the barrel down again, and not a word is spok ‘

during the entire act.

What a natural resource this soldier ingenuit
is turning out to be! Our military band is turn
into a red hot swing band for the special event.
and do they burn up those notes! we find it har.
to maintain the participation basis as almost every
one wants us to professionalize and set up a ro.
show for entertainment for lads with ability wh
want to sit. We perform to thousands as it is, b1
we shoot for casts of fifty to seventy-five and ev
a hundred, where minstrel shows and glee clu
are concerned.

Put on a Dixie minstrel a week ago and work .
in some of the old songs in a way that would hax ..
done your heart good. The soldiers in this sam
show gave their impression of “Uncle Ton ..
Cabin” which just about put the audience in the!
seats. We even go in for costuming. That nigl
a piece of unraveled rope served as a wig; Arm,
shoes made the funniest dancing slippers you eve
saw. Yes, they know the little dance we did if
Baltimore to the tune of “Tea for Two."

Found me a vaudeville man among the selectc
who has no end of ideas; he was on the stage for
three years, has had paid master-of-ceremonies ex-
perience, and in that capacity can make poor and
mediocre talent look good. The build-up that he

   
   
   
   

ives the performers makes Joe Blow sound like
ing Crosby.

The third big duty is the technical help which is
lways given on request along athletic and sports
ines. Have planned a lot of unit recreational area
ayouts, using an engineering survey crew to
ctually stake them out with correct measurements
d direction. We are issuing a standard set of
rules and regulations for general use on all games
and sports adaptable to this climate; we organize
leagues —- but only on an intramural basis —and
referee occasionally when a league is just getting
under way, but always give instructions along
with it.

Welcome to Anniston
(Continued from page 570)

success of the Battalion Dances but focuses the at-
tention of local townspeople on the present and
future possibilities of a public recreation center.

Regular weekly broadcasts from the building
over local radio station WHMA have become com-
munity events. At one of the outstanding broad-
casts Helen Heitt, outstanding woman reporter and
commentator, spoke before a capacity house of
1,600 soldiers and civilians.

Victory War Bond broadcasts, using both
soldier and civilian talent, are produced in con-
junction with the county and state War Bond
drive officials.

Community sings, directed each Sunday after-
noon by civilian song leaders, have been one of
the outstanding program features. These sings are

l well planned to insure a good selection of numbers

and community-wide participation. Accompani-

ments for these Sings have been furnished by or-

chestras from Anniston and Fort McClellan.
Over 28,000 men in uniform participated in

' regularly scheduled events and activities during

the month of November alone.

Seem—Community Recreation

Incorporated
(Continued from page 575)

tion is one of our heritages. During times like
these when freedom is being challenged, it is im-
perative that communities capitalize upon their
opportunities and assume increased responsibility
in the promotion of their cultural growth. To see
the philosophy and ideal of SCERA actually suc-
ceeding in America is the best guarantee of our
emocracy.

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

593

   
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of l

 
 

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, November 1942

A Check List for Winter Protection of Outdoor
Pools, by H. W. Wiener

A Program for Intermediates, by John J. Ivan

Women—and War—Time Swimming, by Frederica
Bernhard

Child Study, Fall 1942

Books of the Year for Children, selected by the
Children’s Book Committee of the Child Study
Association

Journal of Physical Education, November—December 1942

(Entire issue devoted to Y.M.C.A. wartime fitness
programs)

Parks and Recreation, November-December 1942

Importance of Fertilizer in Establishing New Turf,
'by Alton E. Rabbitt, Department of the Interior
Wartime Park Problems Discussed at Rockford

Conference

Safety Education, December 1942
Freedom from Fear, ‘by Kathleen Fleming Brown

Scholastic Coach, December 1942

Care of Equipment for the Duration
A Model Wartime Gym Program, by James L.

Quigley
School Activities, December 1942

Stage Action Streamlined, by Edward Palzer. (An-
other in the series suggesting improvements in pro-
ductions)

Survey Graphic, November 1942

(Entire issue devoted to race problems in the United
States)

W omans Press, November 1942

“— And the Women," by Doris E. Hopkins. (YWCA
work in England) c

“Definitely Swish,” 'by Dorothy Richardson. (Adoles-
cent girls entertain soldiers)

PAMPH LETS

Health Films prepared by Section on Health and Medical
Films, American Film Center, Inc. A descriptive list

of 219 m0tion pictures .
45 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Price 25 cents

Home Games compiled by Neva L. Boyd. A collection

of 91 games
H. T. FitzSimons Company, 23 East Jackson Boule-
vard, Chicago, Illinois. Price 50 cents

Jewish People’s Institute, .Chicago. Descriptive booklet

of a large-scale community center
Jewish People’s Institute, 3500 Douglas Boulevard,

Chicago, Illinois

Let’s Play Safe by E. Laurence Palmer. A Cornell Rural

School Leaf-let
New York State College of Agriculture, Cornell Uni-

versity, Ithaca, New York

Our Neighbors to the South prepared by Ruth Melamed
Gurin. An informal list of books on Latin America.
Part two of “The Booklist”

American Library Association, 520 North Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Price 25 cents

594 AN OLD MANSION AND A NEW COMMUNITY

An Old Mansion and a New
Community

(Cantinued from page 547)

looms, are in constant use. Some have been loaned
to the Center, others purchased from manufactur-
ers, still others made by the students themselves.
The articles woven vary—curtains, drapes, rugs,
bath mats, towels, neckties, knitting bags, purses,
and many other useful articles of all sizes, designs,
and colors.

New to the old building is the Camera Club
which is housed in the basement, an ideal location
for the dark room. Club programs, O.C.D. activi-
ties, social gatherings, lectures and cooking classes,
all are a part of the program led by volunteers,
“7 PA, and city recreation leaders under the direc-
tion of Mrs. Betty Heavener, Director of Charles-
ton’s Recreation Department.

Clyde Jarret, Executive Director of the Local
Housing Authority, has taken an active interest
in the program and feels that the mansion-monu-
ment to Rebecca Littlepage is now serving the pur-
pose which she might have wished. The massive
doors of her home stand open wide today to all the
community. Young and old throng through its
spacious halls and up the sweeping stairway to live
and laugh and share.

What About Games in Wartime?
(Continued from page 561)

the clue is found the bugler blows his call once
more and the party moves on.

The sergeant’s flag is necessary to mark the last
clue when the trail is lost; otherwise valuable time
will fly past while the soldiers search for the old
markings as well as the new.

Scrap Hunt. Turning the familiar scavenger hunt
into a scrap salvage drive will do a duty twice
over. You can gather up the old bits of scrap and
keep the youngsters busy at one and the same time.

Divide the children into small groups and send
them out armed with a list of articles to bring
back, Include such items as a lady’s empty lip-
stick container, a pail, two keys, four tin cans, and
perhaps some rubber articles. Put in a few funny
and a few difiicult articles to add zest to the hunt.

Each article, including'duplicates, counts as one
point. Give recognition to those who bring in
their articles first and also to the husky lads who
bring in the most poundage.

Airplane Tag. In this adaptation of Touch Tag,

 
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
    
   
   
   
  

the boys and girls form squadrons of three, whic
fly in formation. Each child holds out his arms t
represent the wings of an airplane and furnishe
appropriate sound effects—bzzzzzzzz.

If a member of a rival squadron touches an ar
it means that a wing has been shot away and t
arm is accordingly lowered. When both wings a
touched, the player must leave his squadron as
grounded plane. The squadron staying in the '
the longest wins the game.

(Part II: Next Issue)

Welcome to Schenectady!

(Continued from page 565)
public library. Information was also given abou

churches, schools, and rooming houses.

The local press has been most cooperative, pub
licizing the invitations, taking pictures, runnin
stories about the parties, and listing the names
those attending. Invitations have also appeared i
the General Electric N em: and have been broad
cast over Station WGY.

Attendance has grown at each event. Four hun
dred people attended the last party, and many ex
pressions of appreciation have been heard. All t
volunteers associated with the venture as commit
tee members have thoroughly enjoyed their ex
periences.

Defense Mixers at Kenmore
__ (Continued from page 566)

Down the left side of the card, headed “Defens
Mixer,” were the words, “What P” “Where ?’
“\N hen ?” “Time?” The information these caption
called for was written in by hand, and space w
left under a final caption “Note” for further direc
tions. The cards were either mailed or hande
directly to the members. Publicity in the newspa
per was continual.

\Vhenever we have wished to expand, we hav
used the original system of combining four of on
own boys with four girls. We started out with
high type of boys who have set the standards
Now girls from local colleges are glad to join th
group.

Our experience has proved that personal con
tact is the thing that counts in a program such a
ours. It is necessary in the original planning an
absolutely essential in getting members. Newspa-
pers and posters help in winning some recruits
and good ones, too—but there is nothing like get-
ting a name and making a personal call.

  

__.

The Small Community—Foundation

of Democratic Life

By Arthur E. Morgan. Harper and Brothers, New York.
$3.00. ..

DR. MORGAN’S book is a real contribution to small com-
munity living. His concern for the enrichment of
everyday living and the preservation of basic human
values makes it an important human document. The
volume presents a study Of the small, primary commu-
nity where more than anywhere else, according tO Dr.
Morgan, men can find the way to live well. The contents
fall into four main headings: The Significance of the
Community; Community Organization; Specific Commu-
nity Interests; and Concluding Observations. One chap-
ter is devoted to Small Community Recreation, and in it
Dr. Morgan stresses the importance of recreation in
these words: “Recreation is just as necessary as work.
Provision for recreation is not a minor incident of good
community life, but a vital element in social well-being.”

Camping Today
Prepared by Camp Fire Girls, Inc., 88 Lexington Avenue,
New York. $.50.
H AMPING TODAY” gives briefly some of the funda-
mentals of good camping as experienced by Camp
Fire Girls. The booklet will be Of interest to all groups
, promoting camping.

Recreation and Housing for Women

War Woi'kers

A Handbook on Standards. By Mary V. Robinson. Bul-
letin No. 190 of the Women’s Bureau, U. S. Depart-

ment Of Labor. Government Printing Office, Washing-
ton, D. C. $.10.

“WOMEN AS WELL AS MEN are faced with difficult

problems concerned with living and leisure, and
arising out of their jobs or employment in areas with
defense impacts,” says Miss Robinson in discussing needs
of women war workers. Because this problem is becom-
ing increasingly acute as larger numbers Of women enter
industry, this booklet, dealing with the needs of women
both for recreation and housing and standards which
Should be maintained, is especially valuable at this time.

Appalachian Trail Log

New York-New Jersey Trail Conference, 556 Fairview
Avenue, Brooklyn, New York. $.25.

HIS LOG IS A SUPPLEMENT to the 1938 edition of the

Guide to the Appalachian Trail and covers the terri-
tory from the Housatonic River in Connecticut to the
Susquehanna River in Pennsylvania (302.75 miles). In-
formation is given regarding mileage, shelters, and inns
along this footpath from Kent, Connecticut, to Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

  

A Bibliography of Books for Young
Children

Compiled 'by the Association for Childhood Education.
Available from the Association at 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C. $.50.

HE FIRST EDITION Of A Bibliography of Books for

Young Children was published in 1937. In the five
years which have passed since that date many new books
for children have been published. Books Of all kinds to
suit all tastes are carefully classified, with brief descrip-
tions which make the bibliography exceedingly usable.

Rhythmic Games and DancesI Basic

Activities for Elementary Grades

By Dorothy Hughes. American Book Company, New
York. $1.50.

THIS VOLUME PROVIDES directions for producing a large

number of interesting and beautiful games and dances
in which a goodly number Of participants may take part.
While the recreational element is in the foreground, the
educational phase has been subtly injected in the teaching
Of skills which will serve as the basis of musical appre-
ciation. The games and dances described are basic activi-
ties for elementary grades.

London Pride

By Phyllis Bottome. Little, Brown and Company, Bos-
ton. $2.00.

MISS BOTTOME has made life in wartime ‘England very
real in her story Of a family living in the dOckyard
tenements of London. Their life in a 'bOmbed city, their
acceptance of the hazards Of war, and their exciting ex-
periences are described vividly and often humorously.

Park and Recreation Progress I942

National Conference on State Parks, 901 Union Trust
Building, Washington, D. C. $1.00.

OR THE PAST FOUR YEARS the National Park Service
has published a Park and Recreation Year Book in-
tended to serve as a report on the development Of na-
tional, state, and local park and recreation areas and
programs. Because curtailed appropriations did not per-
mit the Service to issue a Year Book for 1942, the Na-
tional Conference on State Parks undertook tO publish it.
Park and Recreation Progress 1942 is in two parts.
The first briefly summarizes the year’s progress in na-
tional and state parks and forests and also describes the
recreation services Of several Federal agencies. It is
clear from this statement that increased emphasis has
been laid upon the recreational use of parks and forests
during the past year. The major portion of the volume
is devoted to summaries of recommendations in the state
reports that were issued as a result Of the nation-wide
park, parkway and recreation study conducted under the

595

596 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

auspices of the National Park Service. These recom-
mendations deal with such varied problems as land
acquisition, the need for more adequate personnel and
financing, administrative practices, and c00peration be-
tween agencies at different levels of government. In sev-
eral states special emphasis is laid upon the importance
of acquiring and developing lake and ocean frontage. In
others the provision of recreational facilities for Negroes
is stressed. Many of the recommendations deal with the
classification of areas, park policies, organized camping.
school grounds, and county, metropolitan, and municipal
recreational programs. Undoubtedly many of these recom-
mendations will exert a marked iniiuence upon the future
development of state park and recreation systems.

Parties in Wartime.

By Louise Price Bell. Fleming H. Revell Company,
New York. $1.50.

Mrs. Bell has given us a timely «book in this collection
of simple, inexpensive parties keyed to conditions preva-
lent in wartime. Many of them have hem thoroughly
enjoyed by service men on furlough and boys from army
camps and bases. Some of the best party stunts have
been suggested and demonstrated by the boys themselves.
There are thirty-three parties outlined in the book, and
miscellaneous games and stunts are described in a closing
chapter. Because quizzes are so popular these days, Mrs.
Bell has given us a list of questions for a general infor-
mation quiz.

Note: Through the courtesy of the publisher, RECRE-
ATION’ is reprinting on page 554 one of the parties which
appears in the book.

The Sports of Colonial Williamsburg.

By \Villiam C. Ewing. The Dietz Press, Richmond,
Virginia. $1.00.

If you are interested in sports of Colonial days, you
will enjoy this attractively illustrated little book. It tells
not only of the outstanding sports of Colonial Williams-
burg, but also of music, games, drama, and dancing.

1000 and One. The Blue Book of
Non-Theatrical Films.

The Educational Screen, Chicago. $.75.-

This new edition of 1000 and One, published at a time
when the motion picture is playing so important a 'part
in the war effort, will serve a particularly useful purpose.
Under the classification of “Films on the War” hundreds
of films are listed giving information on various phases
of the war, released by the United States, Canadian, and
the British governments, as well as other sources. More
than 5,000 films-enainly 16 mm. 'but hundreds in 35 mm.
size—have been listed in this, the eighteenth edition.

Fun—40 Hilarious Party Games.

National Association Service, 2017 Glenwood Avenue,
Toledo, Ohio.

Here is a new set of adult party games consisting of
forty-nine sheets packed in a colorful box. There are
brain bafflers, word games, tongue twisters, forfeit sug-
gestions, and games and stunts. Further information may
be secured from the National Association Service.

Cavalcade of the American Negro.

Illinois Writers' Project of the Work Projects Ad-
ministration. Sponsored by the Diamond Jubilee Ex-
position Authority. Obtainable from Truman K. Gib-
son, 3507 South Parkway, Chicago, Illinois. Paper
bound, $.25; cloth bound, $1.00.

The Illinois Writers’ Project has given us the story
of a people who in spite of handicaps have contributed
generously to American culture. Negro music, literature,
art, and drama are given recognition in this interesting
book, and the contribution of the Negro to industry, agri-
culture, and business is recorded.

   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
  
  

Private Donkes and Me!

By Herbert C. Taylor. Illustrated by Ben Mead - 1

Don Barber. Taylor Engraving Cor ati D
Texas. $2.00. per on,

.Here is one of the books which has grown out of r
big army camps of Texas. It tells the human and hi
0115 story of America’s typical trainee. The book co
blank pages for the recording of the experiences of
serv1ce man. It should be a source of fun to him w -
he enters his daily doings in the book, and of inesti a
value in the future as an unofficial record of the war.

Standards for Day Care of Children
of Working Mothers.

Children in Wartime No. 3; Bureau Publication 1
Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor. G
ernment Printing Oflice, Washington, D. C. $.10.

Much concern is being expressed about the welfare
children whose mothers are being drawn into war w

With this in mind, the Children’s Bureau, through
Subcommittee on Standards and Services for Day C
has drawn up a series of recommendations which are
cluded in this report. The committee is unanimous in
belief that mothers of preschool children, especially th
under two years of age, should not be encouraged to

employment, since children in infancy should be ca
for at home.

The standards the committee offers are intended to
standards of “good” care that the committee believes c
be approxnmated in nearly all situations requiring (
care. Needs—physical, recreational, health, and other
are considered under the headings “Staff,” “Progr F
“Plant and Equipment” for the following groups: C
dren two to five years; six to eleven; and twelve to 51

teen. The question of foster-family day care is a
COHSIdCI‘ed.

Officers and Directors of the Nation »

Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Roman-r Galina-tr, Chairman of the Board of Directors
Hownan Buucnzn, President

JOHN G. Wmsnr, First Vice-President

Mus. Comm L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. Lita, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Boa
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Buns, Boston, Mass.

Mus. EDWARD W. Broom, Carlisle, Pa.

Mas. Roan-r Woons Buss, Washin ton, D. C.
Hownn Buucnan, New York, N. .

Mas. WILLIAM Bunsawon-rn, Moline, 1]].
HENRY L. Consa'r'r Portland, Ore.

Mas. ARTHUR G. éUHHER, aCksonville, Fla.
Mas. THOMAS A. Emsox, est Orange, N. J.
Roan-r Guam, Baltimore, Md.

Rossin- GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
Ans-rm E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

Mas. NORMAN Hanown, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mas. Matrix.th H. HASKuL, Tucson, Ariz.
Mas. Cannes V. Hittxox Michigan Cit , Ind.
Mus. JOHN D. Jansen, Sn r Hill, N. .
Gusnvus T. Kmar, New ork, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis. Ind.

Roan-r LASSITER Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. Ln, Boston, Mass.

0110 T. Manny, Philadelphia, Pa.

WALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARI. E. MILuxzn, Augusta, Me.

Mu. OGDIN L. Mums, Woodbury, N. Y.
Mas. Stouuxn Srnn, San Francisco, Calif.
Mas. AXES W. Wsoswonrn, Washington, D. C.
. C. sun New York, N. Y.

unsure):  Wuluno, New York, N. Y.
can G. WINAN‘I‘, Concord, N. H.

“any Woonwnn, Washington, D. C.

