On Keeping the Recreation Movement
Understandable

F COURSE in the recreation movement we must have ideals, and we have them.

But what I am proudest of in our recreation executives and recreation

workers is that they have their feet on the ground; that they are hard-headed,
practical, definite; that they are not satisfled with dealing with words.

The recreation movement stands for something you can see, for something
you can feel.

There are skating ponds, softball fields, golf courses, tennis courts, swim—
ming pools, bathing beaches, basketball courts, dancing floors, club rooms. People

know what you are talking about, even a five year old boy understands when you
mention these things.

Quite generally in our cities ordinary common sense people are saying of
certain workers in our cities—they talk all the time about their techniques; we
cannot understand what they are talking about; we know all the words, but we
get nothing from all this talk, which makes us feel someone is trying to be
superior.

Recently a Harvard alumnus, a business man, said, “I have gone to sev-
eral meetings and listened carefully to these professionals and I do not believe

they know themselves what it is they are trying to say in such a mysterious way.”
And our labor friends report the same thing.

We can be thankful that the boys’ clubs, the girls’ clubs, the Scouts, the
recreation workers, have a language that the ordinary man can understand.

Men understand singing songs, playing in the orchestra, taking part in
a play. They know children’s games, home play. They know softball, baseball,
badminton, volleyball. They know too the comradeship and the joy of team
work in all this recreation activity. They are coming to know also the assumptions
as to the importance of truth, honesty, loyalty, courage, good will, cheerfulness,

and the need for opportunity for natural growth that are taken for granted in the
minimum amount of leadership given by the members of a recreation staff.

W (imam

APRIL I943

 

m
:m
.m
A
M
Iw
low
A
m
.Iu
law
A

 

Canteen in an Art Gallery 13".»

HE LATE afternoon
I visitor to the Museum
of Art of the Rhode

Island School of Design is
apt to hear the strains of
“I’ve Heard That Song
Before” or “When the
Lights Go on Again” as he strolls through the ex-
hibitions. If he looks farther, he’ll discover that
the music is coming from the Gallery Canteen
where the Museum has its own way of welcoming
servicemen to Providence.

When Gordon Washburn, former director of
the Albright Art Gallery in Buffalo, came to take
over the directorship of the Museum of Art, Rhode
Island School-of Design, he became interested in
the possibility of having the Museum play an active
part in the community war prOgram. The Gallery
Canteen was the result. ‘

Three galleries in the

By DOROTHEA DALY

'Servicemen on leave in Providence
go to this'museum of art to read.
restI eat' or just sit and talk

Soldiers and sailors patronize the Canteen

heart of the building have
been turned over to the men,
with the Canteen entrance
through the special exhibi-
tion galleries where many
of the Army and Navy
visitors st0p to see the
changing shows. The largest room in the Canteen
has been made into a game room with a pool table,
two ping-pong tables, a shooting game, darts, and
other such amusements. It has a piano—a Stein-
way, which is indeed appreciated by the men who
enjoy music. There is a victrola, and an automatic
record—changing machine with a large collection of
classical and dance records. The walls are bright
with a display of posters, and the' co1umns in the
center of the room have been painted with banners.

One of the busiest places is the writing room.
Boys are grouped around
the table writing letters. to

lounge where eating is the favorite occupation

 

Photo by Joseph R. Marcello

3

4 CANTEEN IN AN ART GALLERY

their families and friends back home, others are
looking over the magazines, while still others are
picking out things to take back to their quarters.
The radio is usually turned low, not to interfere
with the men who are trying to write. An amazing
supply of stationery is used each week. There is an
ample supply of pens and ink and post cards are
being made showing the views of the different
rooms. A group of “Seabees” made a Special “Gal—
lery Canteen Mail” box which is filled to overflow-
ing nearly every evening.

If the contributors to the Victory Book Cam-
paign could see the pleased expressions on these
men’s faces as they find new and interesting books
on the shelves, they would feel rewarded. The
men want amusing and stimulating reading. They
ask for poetry, technical books, biographies. One
sailor came up with a copy of “Leaves of Grass”
under his arm, and asked if he might take it with
him. Another young sailor was delighted to find
a copy of “Soap Behind Your
Ears.” He was sure that his
friends would want to read it,
too. The boys were just shov-
ing off for parts unknown and
wanted something to read en
route. Books of cartoons are
always welcome for the men
need a laugh.

The lounge is a pleasant
place to sit and talk, and what is most important
perhaps, it is a place where the coffee and food
are! The milk bar is busy, particularly since the
Canteen set up a “snack arrangement.” Jars of
peanut butter, peach jam, marmalade, relish, and
mayonnaise are arranged next to long loaves “of
white and dark bread. The men love to make their
own sandwiches. Most of them say, “This is the
first time I’ve done this since I left home.” They
dig into the jars and proceed to mix the strangest
combinations.

. The new room with its two couches will be a
place where a man can rest. There are two large
tables for additional writing space, more books and
magazines, and a radio-victrola. Here the men
can quietly read, write or sleep.

On Sundays when the Canteen opens at 10:30
in the morning, a few men come in for a cup of
hot coffee before going to church. Others drop in,
read the papers, write letters, and then leave say-
ing, “\Ve’re going to a show, but we’ll be back."
And they do come back!

One “C B” recently returned from a few days

"Servicemen come to the Canteen. look
around' stay a while, and what is best
of all. they return.
soldiersl coast guards are in and out.
Some of them are stationed near-by and
are able to drop in very often: others
make it their meeting place when in town.
It takes the place of home for them."

liberty in New York, He came in to tell us that
he had visited all the places there, including the
Stage Door Canteen. But as he put it, “It’s a
great place. Lots of celebrities, but its got nothing
on us.” He feels that he is a part of the Canteen,
and we want the men to feel that way.

Recently Mrs. Eaton, the director, received a
series of postal cards from the wife of one of the
servicemen. The girl had come in with her hus-
band, had enjoyed the hospitality of the Canteen,
and was now expressing her thanks as she traveled
homeward. The cards came from New York,
Pittsburgh, Toledo, St. Louis, and points west.

Mrs. Eaton has been called upon to supply all
sorts of things from buttons and shoe polish to
aspirins and toothpicks, Being the mother of two
boys (they are now serving in Australia) she
knows what to expect and how to meet these de-
mands. One of the most unusual requests was un-
expectedly granted when she loaned her reading
glasses to a sailor who had
left his aboard. He had to
write a letter, but he couldn’t
without his glasses. She
handed him hers, and sure
enough they satisfied.

Thank-you notes have been
received from men and from
their families. Many of the
men make a point of going to
the hostess in charge or to the director to thank
her for the hospitality. They appreciate a chance
to talk about their families, and a chance to read
and think. As they put it—“it is like home where
a man can sit and think if he wantS'to.” Many of
them say, “Don’t change it in any way.”.

One young sailor came in the first day, took a
look around and said “This place is too high hat
for me.” But he stayed all afternoon, played pool,
kept the juke box going and ended up saying,
“This is a swell spot.” Another sailor who came in
at Christmas time was delighted to find a victrola,
because his family had sent him some records—
their Christmas message to him. He sat by the
victrola listening to his father’s voice and his
mother’s voice and wiped the tears away. It was
his first holiday away from home.

Three parties have been given in the Canteen
since its opening last December. For Christmas
eve we tried to have a gay time for the men who
were away from home. A party was scheduled
with an orchestra and refreshments. A group of
junior hostesses were invited for the dance, and

Sailors. marines.

Cleveland's
Backyard
Theater

"The Backyard Theater was
an opportunity for us to get
together once a week, to get
to know each other a little
better, to share experiences,
and to learn some of the
duties and obligations of the
citizens of a nation at war."

VERY MONDAY NIGHT for eight weeks last sum—
mer residents in the neighborhood of the
Glenville Branch of the Cleveland, Ohio,

Public Library gathered in the library’s Backyard
Theater to see films on Civilian Defense, First Aid,
the Army, Mexico and India, and hear speakers
comment on the films and lead group discussions.
Thus they, with the library staff, had a part in an
experiment in community cooperation and morale
building.

The Backyard Theater was organized to help
citizens realize their role in the war effort and un—
derstand the issues at stake. Joint sponsors of the
Theater were the Council Educational Alliance, a
neighborhood settlement house; the Glenville
Community Council; and the Glenville Branch
‘ Library. Each of these groups took a regular and
active part in the program, and no one group could
have successfully completed the work alone.

The Council Educational Alliance (C.E.A.) as
a member of the Cleveland Federation of Settle-
ments furnished jointly with the Public Library’s
adult education office the films used for the pro-
gram. From the list of films
offered they selected those
which had current interest
and could be used in a unified
program. The adult educa—
tion office supplied the screen,
projector, and operator. The
director of the Alliance, the
president of the Community
Council, and staff members of

Libraries, in spite of reduced budgets
and other handicaps, are making valua-
ble contributions to the war effort.
The experiment so successfully carried
on by the Glenville branch of the Cleve-
land Public Library, and described by
Samuel F. Lewis, Young People's Libra—
rian. in the January
the Library Journal, will have sugges-
tions for local recreation departments.

 

Courtesy Library Journal

the library took turns as chairmen of the meetings.

Because of the intense heat of Cleveland’s sum—
mers the programs were held in the backyard of
the library which is shaped like an isosceles tri-
angle. The base of the triangle is the back wall of
the library, and the sides are formed by the prop—
erty lines of neighbors’ yards. The portable screen
was placed at the apex of the triangle. In front of
the screen was the loud speaker of, a Bell and
Howell 16 mm. sound projector. The projector
was set up near a window of the library, close :120
an electric outlet. The Youth Victory Committee
of the C.E.A. was in charge of the ushering and
arranged the chairs as their contribution to the
project.

The programs began just at dusk, about 8:45
P. M., and lights were suspended from the trees in
the yard. The first program was held on July 6th
when the film, “Ready on the Home Front,” was
shown and a speaker came from the Cleveland Fire
Department. The branch librarian told the audi-
ence about the library’s War Information Center
and invited people to borrow the books and pam—
phlets on display. The second
program was in charge of the
Red Cross, and for a later
program the committee se-
cured the Army Recruiting
Ocher’s film, “The Army on
Wheels.”

When the first news came‘
that Alaska was to be one of

(Continued on page 43)

I, I942 issue of

11

"Night Life" for Teen Age Boys and Girls

.
l 1,3,: ' .
A V -,
V-I'I' .
v "7, I

 

Photo by Robert I. Keller. From Boston Herald

ThelISaturday Nighters

By DAVID R. KIBBY
Community Association. Inc.
Dedham. Massachusetts

OMF. OF YOU may recall with nostalgia the
S ancient ritual of Saturday night. In the old

days it was the custom, I am told, to gather
as a family unit for the ceremony of the pre-Sun-
day bath. Perhaps as a child you had the joy of
standing in line near the warmth of the old kitchen
range for your turn in the “super suds.” Perhaps
you remember how you emerged scrupulously
scrubbed and polished, ready for another week.

If you have experienced these pleasures you may
regret the advent of the porcelain tub, shower, and
“city” water. Perhaps more, you regret the result-
ant destruction of the family unity as young folk

12

left the fireside of a Saturday night for
more exciting pastimes. _

It was a combination of these two facts
—one, that many people still remember
the ancient ceremony of Saturday night;
and two, that nowadays high school folk
are all too often at loose ends of a Satur-
day night——that led to the formation of
our club.for high school boys and girls
and the selection of a happy little lad in a
bathtub as our “trade-mark.”

A few were enthusiastic for the under-
taking from the outset. It took time to
convince others that here was something
that they would enjoy. High school stu-
dents are a sophisticated lot these days;
“Vic” dances do not have much appeal;
“home town” entertainment can’t hope to
be as good as “city” entertainment; the
automobile (then) made travel and other
things too easy.

Need for Appeal

Ours had to be a group with appeal and
real, wholesome entertainment. Others
had succeeded in this field so we set out to
do the same. It was not long before our
numbers had become so large that the
space available was no longer adequate-—
it was necessary to take steps to integrate
the group more closely and to eliminate some of
those who came primarily for other reasons than
the program.

Some of the problems may become clearer when
one realizes that the Community Center in Ded-
ham is a historic mansion with limited facilities
for large groups. The dance area will at best ac-
commodate thirty couples at a time; to run a
“boomps-a-daisy” or two quadrilles at one time
would be practically homicide. \Ve know ! ~There
is in addition a small size pool table, a ping-pong
room, a game room, and a lounge room. Obviously
the 125 to 140 young people we were attracting
slightly overcrowded our facilities. We now en-
tertain from 70 to 100 persons each Saturday—
more when we plan special activities in larger
halls about town.

At the beginning the Community Center, which
receives most of its funds from the Greater'Boston

“NIGHT LIFE” FOR TEEN AGE BOYS AND GIRLS 13

Community Fund Drive bore
all costs including the rental of
a machine and apprOpriate rec-
ords. After some months the
group decided that they should
have their own recording
machine, their own records,
and funds to refinish the dance floor. They levied
a membership fee which amounted to less than five
cents a week. Non-members were welcome but
were expected to contribute slightly more, which
amount was to go into a record fund to keep the
music up to date. Now the Saturday Nighters
have their own machine, approximately .100 pOpu-
lar records, and a perfect dance floor, and the
money formerly spent for them can be used for
other purposes.

The Saturday Nighters are a live organization.
The members are busy throughout the year with
roller skating, bike rides, swimming parties, bowl-
ing, weenie roasts, theater parties, special interest
groups and.the like. At the present moment plans
are being laid for a play or minstrel show.

On Saturday evenings throughout the year the
boys and girls start gathering at 7:30, and enjoy
pool, table tennis, table games, and dancing until
9 o’clock. '

At 9 :00 the president calls together those pres-
ent for announcements of special activities, to
settle matters of
business, and any-
thing else that
may be brought
up. From then till
II ~o’clock popular
music is played
for dancing with
quadrilles and
contra dances in-
terspersed on re-
quest, Recently
there has been an
additional half
hour for those who
enjoy old-fashion-
ed dancing and
who do not have
to catch a bus.

A u e ff 0 r t i 5
made to plan a
special dance of
some nature every
other week. This

Since writing this
Kibby'has left the Dedham Commu-
nity House "for the duration." He is
now stationed with the Army at Camp
Hale in Colorado. Miss Lois Eddy

has taken his place in Dedham.

may be a “holiday” dance if
near one of the special days of
the year. It is often a “mys-
tery” dance—which generally
means that even the committee
doesn’t know how it will all
come out. The entertainment
is often weird but usually hilarious. It may be a
“Square Dance” at one of the available halls in
town, but whatever the plan, it has been possible
to keep up interest with a minimum of rules and
discipline and a maximum of cooperation. Many
special activities are already being planned for
spring and summer.

Most of the problems which need attention have
been disposed of and ceased to be problems when
discussed frankly during the 9 o’clock meeting.

We have from ten to twenty out of town boys
who come regularly of a Saturday night. One of
the unusual features of the evening is that all too
often the boys outnumber the girls. But to date
the girls have uttered no complaint!

' The group was begun somewhat with the idea
of helping to solve the “teen age” problem of find-
ing wholesome entertainment, It has worked out

articleI David

The Saturday Nighters demonstrate an old-time
style of "swing" at the Dedham Community House

 

Photo by Robert J. Keller

14 “NIGHT LIFE” FOR TEEN AGE BOYS AND GIRLS

 

that the members are kept busy on Saturday nights
and whatever other evenings they can. give for
special activities. Membership in the group has
led to the deve10pment of many special interests.
Enthusiasm for the club has never been keener;
the officers show unusual ability; and all members
are proud to be “Saturday Nighters.”

A "Club Victory"_
In Upstate New York

p [N \\'.\'rrzaruw;.\', New YORK, the teen age
buys a11d,gi1‘ls have acquired the Friday night
nabit of dropping in at their own “Club Victory”
tor the evening. It’s a new kind of night life, with
plenty of dancing and drinking-"dancing to the
nusic of Johnny (nanm 311 and his high school mu-
sicians and drinking at the soft drink bar where
milk is the faun'ite beverage.
Superintendent Jackson J. Perry and his munici-
pal Recreation Departn'lent are responsible for this
 .ntrilouth m In the social life of \Natertown’s

' -

,le

Phone by Severance Studio, Il'atcrtou'n, N. Y.

younger set. Vv’ith the help of a committee of boys
and girls, they’ve rigged up a professional-looking
band stand for the orchestra and decorated the
dance hall in true “victory” fashion with red,
white. and blue streamers. The milk bar is equally
festive with patriotic decoration and proclaims to
the dancers from two enormous posters, “Guard
against colds with MILK.”

Boys and girls from thirteen to nineteen years
of age are welcome at the club—for a nominal
fee. Most junior budgeteers can manage to save
up the weekly quarter for admission, or thirty—five
cents for those special occasions when they bring a
“date.” Early comers wander in at 8:30 to try out
the ’Hoor and warm up for the evening’s fun. The
crowd gathers quickly and on many Fridays there
are more than 100 boys and girls dancing at the
peak of the evening.

Between dances they wander off in little groups
to bash over the week’s teen gossip or to patronize
the refreshment bar. Though milk is the favorite
picker—upper, the club menu boasts such intriguing
concoctions as Club Victory Punch, Victory
Special, Club Victory Champayne, A Doughboy's

“NIGHT LIFE” FOR TEEN AGE BOYS AND GIRLS 15

Dream, and Victory Delight—most of these items
at ten cents each or two for fifteen. The boys and
girls themselves help to sell refreshments and one
of the girls acts as “Candy and Gum Lady” each
Friday.

The program changes from week to week. Some-
times it is a special holiday celebration for Valen-
tine’s Day or St. Patrick’s, or even an invented
Leap Year Party; sometimes a cabaret setting,
complete with waiters, waitresses, and ringside
tables covered, of course, with white linen.

The Club closes promptly at I I :30 and its young
patrons head for home, many of them already
making plans for next week’s dance.

But the teen agers are not the only ones who
take over the Hamilton Street Recreation Center
for a weekly dance. Industrial workers from in
and around VVatertqwn have a square dance every
Tuesday evening in the same hall, and older folks
of all ages and occupations trip the light fantastic
at the Saturday night country dances.

When school closes on Friday afternoon the
juniors from ten to fifteen years take over. Their
“Club Commando” opens at 3 :45 with a half hour
of dance instruction for those who need “polishing
up.” Added incentive for
these afternoon dancing

Dancing to the music of Johnny Gannon and his

parties is the Club’s admission price of one nickel.
The boys and girls make good use of the afternoon
dance until it ends at 6:30, in plenty of time for
dinner.

Wilkes-Barre to the Rescue!

By RUTH E. SWEZEY

Director
Playground and Recreation Association

of Wyoming Valley, Penn.

N or LONG AGO a gang of boys, thirteen, fourteen,
and fifteen year olds, stampeded into the Rec—
reation ofhce at a central city bank building in
VVilkes—Barre. As they burst into the room, they
suddenly became shy and one could hardly believe
these boys had made all the noise that was heard
as they shuffled down the corridor from the ele-
vator. One boy handed the director a note. It was
signed by the Mayor and said simply, “These boys
want a club, Junior. Commandos.”

After questioning them, we found that the four—
teen boys in this gang had taken over an empty
store building which they
said was open, that they

high school orchestra at the popular Club Victory

 

Photo by Severance Studio, I'Vatertown, N. Y.

16 “NIGHT LIFE” FOR TEEN AGE BOYS AND GIRLS

 

had furnished it with
odds and ends from their
attics and from here and there and everywhere.
that it had become virtually a hide—out, although it
was located in a”fairly busy section of the city. But
the owner of the building found out the place was
being used and had the police investigate. The
investigation, one of the boys volunteered to ex-
plain, came “just when we were having a business
meeting about kicking out one of our members.
\Ve heard the knock on the door and had to let the
policeman in—well, he threw us all out and sent us
to the Mayor.”

We couldn’t give this group what they wanted
most, a club room, but we could give them a pro-
gram that might help them to forget about it—so
we formed a club and called it the Junior Com-
mandos. They took their training every night in
a near-by school recreation center where they
learned judo and wrestling. The boys also formed
a basketball team to play in the center league, and
became members of the Victory Corps to aid in
collecting scrap, etc. Then the “Y” offered a live
cent swim to the club every Saturday morning.

T he recreation centers of \‘Vilkes—Barre, such as

Wyoming Valley's younger set crowd the gymna-
sium at Edwardsville Center on dance nights

the one these boys were
directed to, are open from
7 to 10 P. M. in various parts of the Valley. They
are the answer to the recreational problem of some.
1,600 young people who attend them weekly. The
centers are much alike because the facilities are
about the same -—— usually typical high school
buildings.

The people attending vary with the sections,
although those attending in the outlying boroughs
are mostly families of miners. The nationalities
represented include seventeen to eighteen differ—
ent races with a predominance of Polish, Czecho—
slovakians, and Lithuanians. There are also many
Russians, Irish and Welsh. When you look over
the names of those attending a center three-fourths
are long and foreign, but the young group that
greets you in the centers are the most typical
Americans you would find anywhere.

3ecause Larksville is a typical school center, let
us make a tour and see just what is going on
there. It takes about twenty minutes to drive the
three miles by car from central Wilkes-Barre to
Larksville, a small city which lies against the
mountains, with its 8,400 people scattered over an

“NIGHT LIFE” FOR TEEN AGE BOYS AND GIRLS 17

area of three miles in length and one and one—half
miles wide. It is a mining area and as one ap-
proaches the high school, one cannot help but feel
the desolation of the place, nothing but mountains
and here and there a breaker surrounded with the
usual piles of culm. As we go over the long
barren stretches we wonder if anyone would walk
such a distance to a recreation center.

The high school is a large rambling building,
lighted from top to bottom. In front is a great
tablet, lighting up the names of the boys in ser-
vice, nearly 1,000 of them.

A pleasant young man greets us at the door,
“Take your wraps into the cloak room and then
I’ll see that you get a look around.” No noise,
no commotion. Where is everybody? Somebody
said 400 attended this center!

The supervisor then takes us from the one ac
tivity to another. First the quiet game room—the
room is filled, the participants sitting in
foursomes, twosomes, and here and there
a boy playing solitaire. There is a buzz of
hushed voices. A cheerful young woman
sits at a desk at the front of the room; in
front of her are several decks of pinochle,
some puzzles, checkers and chess. As a
person asks for a game, she gives them
what they want and checks the name on
the list. We learn this is an overflow room for
those who do not want to take crafts, music, sing-
ing, or for those who are making up their minds
what to do.

we notice many children, some ten or eleven
years old, playing in groups, Why are they al-
lowed in the center? The answer is logical in a
community of large families where often both par-
ents work at night. Whenever an older boy or
girl brings the little sister or brother in order to
come themselves, they are allowed in. This seems
unfair to the others, those on the outside, but we
find we must make it a family affair or be respon—
sible for small children going home long distances
over unlighted streets at nine o’clock. If they
come with the other members of the family they
are taken care of. Normally the youngsters trying
to get in at the doors leave early or are sent home
before 9 o’clock.

“What games are the most popular?" we ask.
The answer is unanimous—puzzles, puzzles of all
kinds, especially the jigsaw. They are in con—
stant use and some children work on them from
the minute they arrive at 7 :30 until the home bell
rings at 10:00. “Have any of the cards disap-

 

peared P” one of the visitors wants to know. “No,
I check carefully and I know all the youngsters
since I taught in the grammar schools several
years.”

In the craft room two teachers are helping girls
with plain sewing and handcrafts, The program
varies, one week it is something frivolous, a gadget
to wear or a necklace, the next week it is some-
thing useful. This week every girl is darning a
sock and some have holes two inches wide.

In the plain sewing class several girls have
dresses to remake, two are making aprons, and
others are learning the various stitches. One
youngster is struggling with a strip of button
holes, but as she says, “When I get to the end of
this I ought to know how, hadn’t I?”

One little girl with a paralyzed arm is working
on a loom. The teacher tells the Story of how one
evening this little girl waited after class. When all
the others were gone, she took hold of her
arm and said, “Please couldn’t you find
something I could do with one hand.”
Then the teacher realized that the other
arm hung useless at her side. The next
week a loom was rigged up for her and
since then she has been happy weaving
yarn into lovely scarfs and mats.

We visit the aviation class where the
older boys are seeing slides of airplanes and bomb-
ers used in the war. The teacher is an instructor
of aeronautics in the high school. He explains,
“This is a practical course which may come in
handy, The boys learn all about the planes, and
something about the sky and weather conditions.
You would be surprised at the intelligent questions
asked and the keen interest shown. These lessons

UNITED
STATES

- have been going on all winter and the group has

100 per cent attendance. The class lasts from 7 :30
to 9:00, so those taking this course lose out on
other activities, except for the 9 :00 to 10 :00 dance
period.”

The auditorium is half filled with boys and girls
who are having a singing period from 7:30 to
8:00, and square dancing on the stage from 8:00
to 9:00. The music director of the Larksville
school, who has charge of the group, is having a
good time getting tone effects, singing rounds, and
four-part harmony. He says that the group varies
very little from week to week, and they come be-
cause they love to sing. “What do you sing?” was '
one question. “We sing what they want. We use
a popular song sheet for a few minutes then drift

(Continued on page 44)

Where War Work ls Play!‘ p

N AR WORK,” as a
Wterm, often
brings to mind
the cartoons we have all
seen of rotund women
meeting for a weekly
gossip session and only
incidentally rolling
bandages, or of overall-
clad and hectic wives departing from their homes
for a war work factory at an early hour, leaving
pathetic husbands in charge of the housework and
the children.

At Perry-Mansfield we are not conscious of war
work as a term, for everything done there is a
part of the war effort. This is especially true in
the Riding Depart-
ment where every
girl learns not only
to saddle and bri-
dle the antecedent
of the automobile,
but also how to
harness a team to
a covered wagon
and drive it.

Our covered
wagon has been
fitted out with cup-
' boards so that gro-
ceries may be
brought from
town, or food and
equipment for an
overnight trip
stored in it. It is
the pride of. the
Riding Depart-
ment. The top was
made from an old
tent and it was
painted and fitted
nut by the girls
themseh on. This
has helped to save
tires and gas. but
it has a further ad
vantage: if a girl
can manage a team

1x

War activities are just recreation
to the girls at the Perry-Mansfield
Campsl Steamboat Springs. Colorado

By NANCY L. PARKER
Riding Instructor

 

pulling a covered wagon,
the next step—driving
a hay rake or a mower
—is comparatively easy.

This summer, more
than ever before, with
the shortage of men for
farm work, girls are go-
ing to be called on to
take the place of men, and there 'is no reason why
they should not do the job well. The satisfaction
of seeing a closely mowed field dotted with sturdy,
suntanned stacks, and of knowing that you have
helped provide food for a herd of cattle for the
next nine months is compensation for the times on
the stack when you thought you’d scream if they
brought up an-
other load!

Ever since the
days when, as a
little girl, I was
allowed to hold a
hot horseshoe with
a pair of tongs and
dip it into a pail
of cold water, lis-
tening with joy' to
the sizzle, I’ve
wanted to learn to
shoe a horse. Now,
at Perry-Mans-
field, this ambition
may be realized by
all, and although
the blacksmith may
make it look easy,
it is quite a job to
“hold up a horse”
in a crouched po-
sition andf‘rasp"
his hoof, or put the
eight nails into his
shoe! If you think
this knowledge un-
necessary, wait
until you are up
in the Great Divide
country faced with

i A Courtesy PrrvrMansfield (amps {I IICCCSSll’y Of hav-

WHERE W'AR WORK. IS PLAY! 1‘)

Playing for the I I ‘
fun of if still
finds a place

on the program

ing to walk
home if you
don’t know how
to pull off a
half-broken
shoe!

“You can’t
take it with
you” applies
well to some
phases of life,
but not to the
getting of tire—
wood at camp.
With a good
strong rope and
a sturdy 'steed
you can “snake”
enough logs in
a few days to last you all of the next summer.
Here again, when the glow of a tire warms cold
hands and feet after a moonlight ride, you appreci~
ate the results of what may have seemed at the
time an arduous task.

One of the problems of raising crops is an ade-
quate water supply. In the Yampa Valley a series
of irrigation ditches are used, and at camp many
have been'dug to carry water from a little creek

that comes down from the mountains. The process

of irrigation gives campers a chance to play around
in all the mud and water they’ve ever dreamed of,
as well as to accomplish some constructive work in
watering the carrots, beans, peas, and other vege-
tables grown in the Victory Garden. It is a really
fascinating job to direct the water into carefully
dug channels and to controlit so that the carrots
won’t go swimming while the beans are left high
and dry!

Perhaps the most vital thing to a rancher, out-
side of the actual care of his cattle, is a barbed
wire fence. If a careless person cuts the wire to go
through and leaves it down, the rancher may have
to search for months for stray cattle. And yet
‘ there is a way of getting through a fence and
leaving it exactly as it was, except for a small tie.

 

C 'ourtesy Perry-Illansfit’ld Ca mp:

This is one of the valuable tricks members of the
Riding Department have learned, and it applies
also to mending breaks, a job which every rancher

has to see to with the melting of the last snow in
the Spring.

“Throwing the diamond hitch” is not only an art
in itself but an extremely useful accomplishment
taught to every equestrienne at P.M.C. For on
pack trips a horse is not only a mode of transpor-
tation (and the only one) but also a beast of
burden. “Crooked Wash,” our best pack horse,
can tell many tales of packs of bedrolls and food
that have started to slip as she made her way
slowly up a steep and rocky trail because someone
forgot to tighten one of the cinches.

Another of the many phases in the war effort
at camp was the berry picking. This was perhaps
the most difficult, because nothing could be more
tempting than to sit down in the heart of a patch
of the reddest and juiciest raspberries, under the
bluest of skies, to eat every last berry! However,
most. of these tempting berries arrived home _
safely, to be eagerly wolfed by hungry campers, or
packed in glass jars with a little sugar and taken

(Continued on. page 46)

On the Second Shift

 

11 ONE ON, it’s time
C to get up!”
“Ugh,” grum-
bles Marian, burrowing
deeper into the covers
and turning her head
away.

“I’m not going to stay up to get you to work on
time. We went roller skating until four and then
we met my foreman and his wife when we stopped
for something to eat.” Irene has already started
to undress.

“Uh—Huh,” comes from Marian as she rolls over
and puts her head under the pillow.

“Hey! The fellow on the radio says its five after
six, and its beginning to get light out! You’re
going to be late.”

“Gar—ump-a,” an indistinguishable reply that
means the covers have been pulled up again.

“I’m going to bed, I’ve got a big date tomorrow
morning after work.” Irene, now in pajamas,
writes Marian a note to set the alarm clock for two
P: M., turns on the radio full blast, sets the alarm
ringing furiously, and jumps into bed.

Marian is up with a start.

“Golly, why didn’t you tell me it’s after six? I
can’t punch in late again this morning. I’m glad I
made up my lunch box last night. Any coffee left ?’_’

By this time the situation is reversed. Marian
gets no answer from the soundly—sleeping Irene
who is already barricaded by the pillow and covers.

Thus ends a typical morning scene in the apart—
ment of a first and a second shifter in war work.

\Vhat about the leisure-hour activities of those
who work nights? Now, in this emergency, there
are hundreds of thousands on the second and third
shifts—men and women who didn’t even realize
before that pe0ple worked at such hours!

In most plants, the second shift goes to work
about four P. M. and finishes around midnight. The
third shift then works from
twelve until seven or eight in
the morning. The majority of

Buffalo’s workers have a 4 :30
Mi. to 1 :oo A.M. second shift.

Until a very short while

ago the secoan shifters had

20

A war worker from Buffalo writes a
first-hand account of the second shift

Eleanore Zaengie wrote this true-to-Iife
story of recreation for night shift work-
ers in the wee hours of the morning on
her "night" off! It's an eye-opening re-
port on the recreational needs of thou-
sands of workers throughout the nation.

Recreation After |:OO A. M.

By ELEANORE M. ZAENGLE

little or nothing to do
after work, except to go
home to bed. That meant
they had to have their
“evening” in the after-
noon before work.
Doesn’t sound like fun,
does it? Getting up four or five hours earlier so
you can get your recreation before you go to work
is no fun. You upset your entire eating and sleep—
ing schedule; you are too tired to work at top ef-
ficiency and too nervous to go to sleep after getting
home from work.

Yet these are the conditions under which a great
many second shift war production workers are
living. Nighttime workers in most communities
now, as before the war, play before work and try
to sleep after work, reversing the normal schedule
and habits of living.

Leading a topsy-turvy life of this kind is hard
on the worker, production, and the community. It
cuts down mental efficiency for the working period
and tires the worker much faster.

An educational program by the community or
the schools, in cooperation with industry, could
disseminate accurate information on diets and
living schedules for all shift workers and their
families. By this I mean an elaboration of the
“Keeping Fit” program.

It is necessary to stress the family angle because
the man or woman who has to dovetail his life with
those living other shifts will need a different pro—
gram than the young married couple or the inde—
pendent shift worker. But there is not much need
for additional recreation facilities for the workers
with families. The primary concern is with the
single young men and women living alone in a
strange city.

To cite an example of how the second shift can
be lived to best benefit the worker, his job, and his
community, let’s go back to
the apartment and see what
happens at two P. M. when
the alarm clock rings?

Remember, Irene went to
bed at 6:00 A. M. That means
she has had eight hours sleep.

RECREATION AFTER 1:00 A.M. ~ 21

The insistent shout of the alarm stirs her, but she
turns it off and goes back to sleep. Fifteen minutes
later the phone rings. A hand reaches out and
gropes for the phone on the bedside table and a
dazed voice says, “Hello.”

The next instant Irene is wide awake and say—
ing brightly, “All right, at three o’clock.” In one
mad rush she hangs up the phone and springs out
of bed. The iron is plugged in, the shower turned
on, as she dashes to the kitchen and lights the gas
under the coffee pot. Then out come her golf shoes
from the closet. In a half an hour, all dressed in
her neatly pressed slacksand freshly ironed blouse,
Irene throws her golf clubs in the car and starts
to work.

A half a mile from the plant is a municipal golf
course in a city park. Here she meets the boy
from the shop who had called her. “If you’ll get
those shoes on in a hurry, we might get in nine
holes today. There aren’t many playing ahead of
us,” he yells across the drive as Irene pulls her
clubs out of the car.

“Pay my thirty cents for me awhile and I’ll be
there in two minutes,” she calls back as she fiips
a half dollar in his direction.

An hour and a quarter later two dusty but ex—
hilarated people are replaying
their game as they drive on to
work—with still eight minutes

 

Choir of Coast Guardsmen singing at
the first 2:00 A. M. church service

held in Buffalo for second shifters

to punch in and to wash up. A short interlude of
fresh air, a pleasant sport, an ice cream sucker, and
a slight case of sunburn! Now they are ready to
work eight hours.

The second shifters at their plant eat lunch at
8:30 P. M., so Irene and two girls from her depart—
ment make a wild dash for the lunch wagon for a
pint of milk and a couple of hamburgers apiece.
Then they race out to the parking lot to sit in the
car listening to the radio while they eat.

At one o’clock, as they stream out of the plant,
each one thinks first of something to eat. Some
will stop at the corner for a hamburger; others go
to the little Italian restaurant that specializes in
spaghetti. If it’s Friday night, they make their
way to the nearest fish fry or Fish ’n’ Chips, as its
known around Buffalo.

Since it is Wednesday night and Irene has a
date, she drives straight home. Taking her shoes
off as she goes into the house has become a ritual,
because the oil which soaks into them at the plant
would leave a trail over the rugs. Irene patters
over to the radio to tune in on Sherwood Gordon
and his all night program, the only one in Buffalo.
In the kitchen she hurriedly scrambles eggs and
fries bacon as she makes a pot of coffee. When
Donald comes, she cautions him
to talk quietly because Marian
is sound asleep by this time.

 

Photo by Sid Smith

22 RECREATION AFTER 1:00 A.M.

After supper, the dishes are stacked and Irene
grabs her swim suit. It’s 2 :00 A. M. and they are
bound for the Y.\V.C.A. where there is a second
shift party after work every Wednesday night.

A quick plunge in the Y pool relieves the strain
of a noisy factory and leaves them refreshed for
the dancing upstairs. A small orchestra supplies
the music but intermissions find the second shift-
ers playing the juke box and making the dancing
continuous. It's fun dancing, swimming and talk-
ing with people who work and live the same as
you do.

At 5:00 A. M. nine of them decide to go for their
“Midnite Snack.” Over their pancakes they ex-
change plant gossip and all decide to go to the
USO Thursday night.

There is always lots to do at the USO. In its
program for industrial civilians the needs of out-
of—town war warkers are emphasized. The “Grave-
yard Frolics” also have a sprinkling of the armed
forces because they, too, work around the clock.
So you are sure to find the people who make the
planes talking with boys who fly them as they sit
in the kitchen of the USO over coffee and dough—
nuts. Here again the second shifters demonstrate
their stamina with hours of dancing. For those
who don’t dance there are billiards, ping-pong.
shufiieboard, cards, places to sit and talk, write
letters, or just relax in a friendly atmosphere
watched over by Mrs. Margaret Dunn who has
charge of the industrial division of the Buffalo
USO.

In Buffalo, where there are now more than
50,000 second shifters, a problem was becoming
obvious early last summer. At that time the USO
was open all night ~Thursdays for dances of war
production workers. This was one of the few sec-
ond shift activities in the city. One or two neigh-
borhood movies were open one night a week, and
one could bowl for an hour or two at some of the
larger alleys.

A group of us who met at the USO every week
began to realize that there was need for a much
larger program of recrea-
tion. Knowing that the nor-
mal time to play is after one
finishes work, and not be-
fore, our objective was to
organize diversified leisure—
time activities for the sec-
ond shift.

Our first project, as an
unorganized group, was to

 

"Buffalo does not stand alone in this pro-
gram. Many cities. particularly those on the
West Coast have done grand iobs. How-
ever. our Second Shift Recreation Council.
as the motivating agencyI is a unique or-
ganization which is one product of the war
that will have lasting value in peacetime."

 

meet with Mr. McFaul, manager of the Shea thea-
ters. The Buffalo War Council arranged the meet-
ing and the USO allowed us to use their rooms.

Mr. McFaul and his staff were extremely skepti-
cal that people would come to a show starting at
2:00 A. M. and running until five. But he con-
sented to try it out at Buffalo’s largest theater for
a two months’ period, one night a week. Its suc-
cess was assured after the first two weeks! Sev-
eral thousand second shifters attend these shows
each week. The theater opens on \Vednesday noons
at 11 :00 A. M. and the show is continuous until
5 :00 A. M. Thursday morning. There has been no
reluctance on the part of the stage attractions to
play for the last early morning performance at two.

The next week we invited the operator of a
downtown roller rink to attend our meeting, Both
he and his«wife doubted that anyone would want
to roller skate at I :30 in the morning. It seemed
to the Scotts that one might go to a theater and
rest, but certainly not exercise!

They finally agreed to open the rink after work
on Tuesday nights from I :00 A. M. to 4:00 A. M.
for a trial of several weeks. The operation has
been more than successful since the first night.
Business is as good as at regular sessions and the
second shifters love it.,

One objection voiced by every commercial oper-
ator was that they were afraid of rowdyism at that
hour and of more disturbances than the average
week-end crowd. Almost a year of second shift
activities has proved that there is actually less.
There are several reasons for this. Most people
have worked particularly hard and, although they
have enough energy for a good time, there is little
exuberance. This fact is noteworthy for anyone
contemplating this field.

At our third meeting, we organized a council.
elected officers and declared our independence
from control by any group. \Ve are a small group
of people who work in the plants of Buffalo. Not
as management, but as labor. We operate lathes,
drill presses, milling machines, grinders and we '
chase stock, tend tool cribs,
weld, assemble,, inspect, in
other words we are the W ar
Production ' Workers. We
know the problems of the
second shifters because we
are the second shifters and
through our council we try
to plan for our leisure-time
recreation.

"A

RECREATION AFTER 1:00 A.M. 23

We decided upon the “Second Shift Recreation
Council” as a name for our group which functions
as a central committee with representation from
various second shift groups in the city. Among
these are the Up—side-downers at the Spencer Lens
C0., the USO, and the Y.W.C.A. Although our
primary aim is to fill the needs of these men and
women, we are a planning committee. Our coun-
cil is not functional.

The needs, as we see them, cover the five most
important recreation fields: social, athletic, cul-
tural, religious, and educational. So far, we have
at least one activity in each field for after-work
recreation. Our secondary purpose is to make
possible a lasting schedule of entertainment for the
nighttime workers, to provide for the people who
work the second and third shifts in peacetime.
By that we mean to include nurses, bus drivers,
policemen, rado men, printers, bak-
ers, street car operators, new3paper-
men, in fact, all nighttime workers.
In Buffalo this will mean many steel
workers also.

Due to the success of our initial
venture into the field of commercial
recreation we decided to go on and
try to fill the cultural needs of these
workers. Don’t forget the war
workers come from every walk of
life and we must provide the same
diversity of entertainment and rec-
reation that they would look for in
the evening if they were living a
normal life.

The Buffalo Philharmonic orchestra made sym-
. phonic history last December when they agreed to
play a series of Victory “Pop” Concerts for sec-
ond shifters. These concerts were to start at 2 :15
A. M. The response was really overwhelming. In-
dustry, labor, press, and radio cooperated. The
orchestra was to be composed of about 45 mem-
bers, since the rest were war production workers
themselves and could not play at that hour. Franco
Arturi, conductor, graciously donated his services.
But the day before the first concert the GPA an-
nounced the ban on pleasure driving. Since Klein-
hans Music Hall, where the concerts were sched-
uled, was not in the downtown section, it was con-
sidered advisable to postpone the Victory “Pop”
Concerts until transportation is assured.

Since most second shift activities take place be-
tween midnight and 6:00 A. M. when transporta-
tion service is curtailed, the president of the In-

 

ternational Railway Company was approached
with the problem. Mr. Youngbluth agreed to have
the IRC publish a map of the city, with all routes
plainly marked, and a schedule of all services be-
tween those early morning hours. These pam-
phlets are now being distributed to all workers in
the Niagara Frontier.

Both the Y.W.C.A. and the Y.M.C.A. have
regular afterwork programs for second and third
shifters. These include dancing, swimming, and
physical sports programs. For the most part these
activities are co-recreational.

Bowling alleys have cooperated as much as pos-
sible by having later closing hours. In some cases
they stay open around the clock to accommodate all
three shifts.

A local ballroom has opened for a Swing Shift
Dance. The attendance has been excellent and
there is continuous dancing every
Friday night until 4:30 Saturday
morning. In addition to this, they
have dancing every Saturday after-
noon when both second and third
shifters find it convenient to attend.

The most recent venture of the
Second Shift Recreation Council, to—
gether with the recreation committee
of the Buffalo War Council, is the
inauguration of church services at
2 :15 Sunday mornings. These inter-
denominational and interfaith ser-
vices were started in January for the
benefit of war production workers
who worked both Saturday and Sunday nights.

Rev. Ernest A. Mathews and the Trinity Metho—
dist Church offered us their facilities. The service
is brief and the usual sermon is replaced by an
address _of current interest by Dr. Mathews, a
guest speaker; or a prominent Buffalo clergyman.

Plans are now being completed for a “Break-
fast Club” for third shifters. This group will meet
every Tuesday morning in the USO for a buffet
breakfast, dancing, ping-pong, billiards, and a gen-
eral get-together. The club will Open at 8 :00 A. M.
and breakfast will be served from nine to ten to
coincide with the radio broadcast by the same name.

At the present time, the greatest need is for a
community recreation program emanating from
the recreation department of the city or some other
such civic agency. By this I mean a completely-
functional program, not a planning committee.

I was particularly pleased to note in the Decem-

(Continued on page 50)

New Gadgets from an Old Fell: Hal:

"Make and Mend" Column

ow IS THE TIME of year
N when you begin to wonder
about that old felt hat!
\Vill you store it away for an-
other year, can it be revamped
into a different style for next
fall, or perhaps brightened with
a new feather and a bit of color? “N
If the hat is beyond saving, use
the felt to help restore other
articles of clothing in your war—
time wardrobe.
Take a hat with a good brim, cut out the crown,
and attach a new one of flowered silk (you may

use an old scarf or scrap from the rag bag). Add ”

a small band around the edge of the brim for good
measure. A crown of printed cotton to match your
dress or bathing suit will transform any old hat
into a festive garden or beach hat.

Since your hat was originally a flat piece of felt,
shaped by steaming and stretching, the reverse
process will return it to a more or less flat piece.

Hold the hat over the
4-»- spout of a teakettle and
pull out on the rim of
the crown. The steam
will soften the felt so it
will stretch and eventu-
ally spread out. It need
not be entirely flat, as
some remaining shape
will give you ideas for
different articles which
can be made from the
felt.

Now, if you are in
need of new craft materials, collect some old hats,
put on the teakettle, and go to work!

Make felt cutouts to decorate sweaters or sport
blouses. (See illustration.) Such cutouts might be
used to cover a patch or a hole. It is too much to
ask that a hole come just at the right place for a
decoration, so you may have to add several other
pieces to balance the design.

Link belts, similar to the ones described in the
“Make and Mend” Column in March, may also be
made. If you need a belt, try to find two felt pieces

24

 

  

llmuunmnn

of contrasting colors and appli-
que one to the other. Decorative
buttons may also be made for
trimming sweaters or Sport
clothes.

If your ration card says no
m new sport shoes this summer,
just hunt out your old pair and
dress them up with a new pair
of shoe laces. Use ordinary lac—
ing and make felt dangles for
the ends. These 'may be mittens, a basket or base-

ball, flowers, or anything that suits your fancy.

(See illustration.) Attach the decorations after
the shoes are laced.

If you have an old pair of bedroom slippers, cut
off the t0ps and recover the sole with some plain
or printed material. Add new tops of felt as shown
in the illustration, Cut a paper pattern first that
will fit your foot, then try to fit it to certain parts
of the felt that aresomewhat rounded in shape and
right for fitting the foot.

Make a felt “autograph booklet” for your lapel.
Cut the cover from felt and stitch in sheets of folded
white paper for the pages. Allow an extra edge of
the felt on the left side in which a small pencil can
be rolled and stitched in place. Add a cord loop
and attach to your most collegiate looking sweater
or jacket.

Cut double mitten shapes from felt. Stuff with
cotton or leave them flat as you wish, but use a
buttonhole stitch of
. bright colored yarn
‘ "4% to hold themtogether.
Ea Attach colored yarn
loops to the cuffs and
use this miniature pair of mittens for a lapel gad-
get or for place card favors at your next party.
You can do the same with a shoe pattern or any
other appropriate design.

Decoration of Felt

Since felt always comes in plain colors, and win-
ter hats are usually of a dark color, you may want
to decorate the bedroom slippers or other felt items
you make. Embroidery is most commonly used,

(Continued on page 45)

 

Good Neighbor Scouts in the Canal Zone

or DOGS, ROLLS, and Boston

baked beans set the stage re-

cently for a good neighbor
get-together when several Pana-
manian Girl Guides spent a day as guests of the
Panama Canal Zone Girl Scouts at the Balboa
Girl Scout Day Camp.

The Mujeres Guias (Girl Guides) arrived in the
morning, dressed in their jaunty khaki uniforms,
knee-length socks, and overseas caps decorated
with the trefoil which is the world symbol of the
organizations. With them came three leaders of
their newly formed Guide group.

At an impressive color ceremony held around
Skipper’s Pool in the Orchid Garden ravine, both
Guides and Scouts sang their national anthems.
The girls from Panama delivered their Laws and
Promise and presented small Panamanian Hags to
their hostesses. In return they were given Scout
diaries as souvenirs of the day.

Later everyone broke up into I
small groups for games, songs,
and a discussion of camp pro-
gram, The Guides sang several
spirited folk songs in Spanish,

By HELEN CANTINE
Executive Secretary
Canal Zone Girl Scouts

"To know a country one must know
the races of people. their cul-
tures. their ways of life." —From
Latin American Backgrounds.

to the obvious delight of the Ameri-
can girls. As the morning went on,
the girls joined in the usual pro-
gram of crafts—spatter printing
that day—folk dancing, and outdoor cooking. At

noon came the typically American meal with its
hot dogs and baked beans.

During the afternoon there was a formal bless-
ing of the Little House, new troop home of the
Scouts, which had been completed just before the
day camp opened. The Guides added their songs
to the program and entertained the guests by danc-
ing the Tamborito, national dance of Panama. The
girls made a gay picture in their beautiful cos-
tumes as they danced under the royal palms and
the tropical foliage of the Orchid Garden.

At the end of the blessing, Mrs. Glen Edgerton,
wife of the Governor of the Panama Canal and
Honorary Commissioner of the Panama Canal
Zone Girl Scout Council, presented a key to the
house to a small Brownie who
then led Mrs. Edgerton and the
other guests in a procession into
the new Little House.

(Continued on page 53)
25

For Convalescent Servicemen

 

Breaking the Monotony of Hospital Routine

 

By ANNE M. SMITH

max RECREATION in a hospital is mentioned,
W the idea that usually comes to mind is of an
outside troupe presenting a play, vaudeville
numbers, or a concert for the patients, or of
movies, travelogues, and educational films put on
occasionally for convalescents. Entertainments of
this kind help break the monotony of hospital
routine, add color to the gray tone of illness, keep
the patients in touch with current events, make
them feel a part of the world outside the hospital,
and stretch their imaginations and emotions be-
yond the immediate present.
When entertainments are organized as part of
a total recreation program under skilled leader-
ship, their values are greatly increased. They can
be pleasantly stimulating without fatiguing pa-
tients or nurses if they are kept simple and made

26

"It is beginning to be recognized that
play must be an important part of the
hospital care of convalescents it et-
ticient treatment is to be given and
the total personality of the patient
considered. It is as necessary for them
as food and rest and medical care."

regular parts of the hospital recreation.
Their social values can be heightened by
having the patients take part in the per-
formance, with the troupers as their ac-
quaintances and friends rather than as
professional performers.

Members of the Mobile Unit for the
State of Illinois have learned some valuable
lessons in recreation leadership of enter-
tainments. Their knowledge of what ser-
vicemen like is based on seventy-eight
weeks of entertaining a total of 103,233
men, with an average of six programs a
week, and approximately 255 men at a
performance.

The Mobile Unit consists of twenty
persons organized to give entertainments
at servicemen’s centers and hospitals on or
near the posts and for all branches of service.
Large enough to be divided into sections, the Unit
serves two or three parts of the state at the same
time. It is possible to enlarge or decrease sections
in accordance with the needs of the different loca-
tions, and to bring fresh acts to those centers where
the servicemen remain for some length of time.

Originally, each Unit member had one or two
specialty numbers to contribute to the program,
such as a song, dance, or comic acts, sleight-of-
hand and magic tricks, in the usual manner of
entertainers. But this type of program was not
enough. It lacked something vital, something more
than that interchange of interest and of spirit
between actors and audience.

As an experiment, the entertainers were given
experience in the meaning and methods of group
activities through participation in group games,
play parties, square dances, tricks and puzzles,

BREAKING THE MONOTONY OF HOSPITAL ROUTINE 27

where they all worked together as cooperatjye
agents and then practiced leading these activities.
Their experiences with thousands of servicemen
in all branches of service prove the need and value
of these social activities as a part of an entertain-
ment program.

Some of their success comes from the fact that
they do not “come cold” onto the stage as outside
performers. Whenever possible, they first play
games with the servicemen in small groups as they
arrive, do string, card, or match tricks with those
interested, and then swing the separate groups
together for group singing games for half an hour
or so before putting on the entertainment. There
seems to be a friendlier, more cooperative-spirit
between members of the audience and those on the
stage when they have first played games together.

The spirit with which the members of the Unit
conduct activities carries over to the men, and is
a fundamental reason for the fellowship estab—
lished. They are not merely presenting a good en-
tertainment, Their primary interest is in the men
and what happens to them as they participate in
the activities. Continuous experimental methods
with the servicemen taking part result in flexibil-
ity, adaptability to new situations as they arise, and
a vitality that was lacking when they used the con-
ventional method of program entertainment. Nat-
urally, when the performers return to the same
post every two or three weeks, the friendliness and
cooperation grow.

Because of the variety of interests among ser-
vicemen, and because illness tends to shorten one’s
span of interest, the type of program most accept-
able is the variety or vaudeville type. Piano solos
of popular semi-classics are amazingly popular.
The men cluster around the piano asking for piece
after piece. Numbers not so well known but very
melodious, such as the less familiar Strauss
waltzes, are hummed or whistled during and after
the performances. Magic and sleight-of—hand tricks
appeal, e5pecially when the
servicemen are called upon
to assist. Men whistlers, or
young women playing gui-
tars or ukuleles while sing-
ing cowboy, popular, or old-
time songs, have the men
singing with them instead of
the usual “community sing—
ing” with a director in front
beating time and urging the
singers to “put more pep

Miss Smith is well qualified to discuss the
problem of what constitutes recreation tor
servicemen in hospitals and how best to
conduct a program to meet their needs.
She is author of the widely used book.
Play for Convalescent Children in Hos~
pitals and at Home, and has had long
experiencejn training recreation leaders.

Her article is based on the experiments of
the Mobile Unit for the State of Illinois
in giving six performances a week and

serving [03,233 convalescent men to date.

into it.” There is a Spontaneity in the servicemen’s
singing, a spirit of fun and of real appreciation of
the quality of each song that is lacking in much
community singing. Comic, nonsense, and dance
numbers are also popular.

In hospitals, one section of the Mobile Unit gives
a short variety program in a ward or mess hall.
As members of the Unit finish their part of the
program, they are sent individually as needed and
in accordance with the directions from the super—
vising nurses and doctors, into small wards to
give just one part of the program to those patients
not so cOnvalescent. Reports from the Unit give
something of the picture. In the January 1943
report we find the following:

“The hospital dates on Sunday evening at the Field
were the high spots of the week end. The group of
convalescent men was larger than usual. They were
exceptionally responsive and joined in group singing
and in a half hour of games. About 150 men were
present in the mess hall of the 'Extension Hospital.
When our magician asked for a member of the audi-
ence to assist in a trick, a boy in a wheel chair was
the first on the scene.

“At the Station Hospital we worked in one of the
larger lifty bed wards. All of these were bed patients
but all men able to walk were allowed to come in.
There were about eighty present. The acts not re-
quiring a piano were given in another ward of the
same size. In this way two performances could 'be
given at the same time, serving more men. Requests
came from patients who could not be moved so some
of the Unit visited them also. In all we visited live
wards, doing some tricks, games, and a little quiet
entertaining, and leaving them with a decided feeling
of accomplishment.

“One boy, just released from an oxygen tent, asked
to have some of the performers visit him. The nurse
gave permission and Kay sang “White Christmas’ for
him without an accompaniment, and several quiet num-
bers. Tears streamed down the young man’s face as
he listened but he appeared rested and peaceful as he
thanked the singer for coming.

“An interesting letter was received from an Avia-
tion Cadet at San Antonio, Texas. He had been a
friend of the Unit at Chanute
Field last winter. Jimmie, an-
other Cadet and former Scott
Field boy, was in the hospital at
San Antonio following a plane
crash. We told the Chanute
Field boy about Jimmie and
asked him to look up Jimmie.
Quoting from his letter in an-
swer to the request, ‘I looked

up Jimmie at the hospital on
Sunday. He is a swell kid. \Ve
talked and talked about the

(Continued on page 46)

Fun Without Money

0U CAN HAVE FUN without
money—yes, right in your
own living-room, dining-
room, and all over your home.
Along the Atlantic Coast,
where practice blackouts and

By FRANK L. SCOTT
Drawings by Jack McMillen

This article is reprinted from
the February I943 issue of Better
Homes and Gardens by permis-
sion of the author and publishers

nights out. But as war teaches
us to stay home oftener, why not
get acquainted with some of the
thousand larky family games and
stunts—and play just for the
fun of it?

gasoline rationing are old stories,

we’re playing home games—including the kind
that don’t cost a penny—more than we have since
the gaudy nineties. Adults are finding in home
fun the answer to the poet’s wistful prayer: “Make
me a child again, just
for tonight !” School
children find that home
work comes easier after
an hour or two of
family fun. Toddlers
forget to wail, “Mother,
what can I do .9” as fun at home goes into its big
revival.

Games are curing many a case of scatteritis, that
nightly blight which descends on so many homes.
You’ve seen the symptoms. You’re all restless at
dimier. At the last lick of the dessert spoon Junior’s
off to his room to isolate himself with his stamp
collection. Molly locks herself in to read her latest
novel to radio swing music. Father pokes his pipe
into a mystery story for the evening. Mother may
hunger for family chit—chat, but she too must find
her own entertainment because it’s everyone for

himself! The family circle isn’t a circle at all. It
looks like this:

’\ f

_/ \ _/

 

Then, as you turn the heat off in the bedrooms
to keep the downstairs warm, family fun comes
into the picture. You all learn to play games to-
gether—and the next thing you know scatteritis is
banished and your family circle’s no longer a mere
figure of speech. It looks like this:

CD

Of course we need our solitary
hours for self-communion and
self-improvement. we still need

28

 

Home games classify in vari—
ous ways. You can divide them neatly into sitting
games and move-about games, both kinds being
played with or without equipment. From Mother’s
point of View they’re better sorted into fun for the
different rooms. Some pastimes belong naturally
to the living-room or sun porch. Boisterous games
may call for a game room or other place where you
can roughhouse all you like. Some hiding games
and treasure hunts take you all over the house.
Many games are great sport during dinner.

Suppose we start right there at the dinner table.
The game-playingest family I know are the Hoh-
lers. Nearly every evening some kind of fun goes
on while they dine. It all began years ago when
Mr. Hohler realized he was bringing too many of
his business troubles to dinner—the one occasion
when the whole family was sure to be together for
an hour or more. Why not play games, he asked
himself.

Company to Dinner is a Hohler favorite. In
imagination one member of the family becomes
someone the others are familiar with: a famous
national figure, perhaps, or some neighbor or other
person they’ve all met. The others try to detect
their guest by asking all sorts of questions. Though
imitating the voice, gestures, and mannerisms of
the imaginary guest, the player tries to act his role
so he’ll throw them off the track.

You can imagine what the Hohlers’ dinners are
like when you learn that among the hundreds
they’ve entertained are Wendell Willkie, the high
school principal, Tom Sawyer, their family doctor,
the garbage collector, and Eleanor Roosevelt.
Sometimes, to make the game
more hilarious, each of the six
Hohlers becomes a. different per-
son and the winner is the one who
guesses first who all the others are.

Hilarious also is the meal at
which pantomime replaces con-
versation, each person being al—

FUN WITHOUT MONEY 29

lowed only/four
1 spoken questions

5 l  . . during the meal
A. ' q ‘ . like, “Whom were
a I 53'

I.

you with today?”

1 '5 - ‘9 A, or “What did you

E m /e©’ 9  do last night?”

m ,. Erlw While you’re an—

{"1 r—i swering such ques-

tions strictly by gesture, what chance is there for
dull care to intrude?

Making your left hand do your right hand’s
usual work, and vice versa, can become another
mealtime diversion.

And try this: Let one person play hc'>st while
the others pretend they’re perfect strangers to one
another. The host’s task is to weld you all into a
highly successful dinner party! It’s wonderful
social practice for the youngsters.

Although word games can be played anywhere,
some are especially handy, while you eat. Ghosts,
for example, The first player names a letter, the
next adds to it, and so on. The object is to avoid
completing a word at the fourth letter or after.
You can bluff, too, by vowing that some pro-
nounceable combination of letters is actually the
name of an unfamiliar bird, flower, or drug. If
you get away with it, your victim is “out,” but if
you’re challenged and the word isn’t in the dic-
tionary it’s you who lose.

Cities is another good word game during dinner.
The first spells the name of a city; the next around
the table takes the last letter of that city to begin
another city; and so on. The game ends when only
a lone survivor remains. Similar games may be
' played with vegetables, animals, and people’s names.

Why not put a party flavor into more of your
dinners? It needn’t add a cent to the food bills.
Why celebrate the too-few birthdays in your
family? The Hohlers often throw birthday parties
for famous people. . 

Family victories can be celebrated at dinnertime
also. Bud’s extra-good report card, Father’s pro—
motion, Mother’s completion of a first—aid course,
Sister’s election to an office in
a high school club —each de-
serves an impromptu ovation.
Of course, if time permits
you’ll want to have the dinner
made up of your family hero’s
favorite dishes!

As one of his pet rules for

 

getting a good night’s sleep Roger Babson, the
economist, once gave me this: “Have the family
trained not to Spill bad news during the evening.”
Better yet is the practice of spilling good cheer
through playing games. So after you’ve eaten you
may want to linger at the dining table. Here the
light is especially good, you’re all cozily facing one
another, and pencil and paper games come to mind.

Drawing Freaks is one you’ll no doubt remember.
You fold a sheet of paper horizontally into four or
more sections so only one at a time comes into
view. On the first section the first player draws a
head, projecting the lines of the neck down on the
second blank section just far enough to guide the
next artist. The second player sketches the figure
down to the waistline; the third draws from waist
to knees; the last completes the drawing by adding
lower legs and feet. When you open the sheet
you’re sure to find one of the craziest creatures
you’ve ever blinked at.

Consequences is another amusing game played
in much the same way. In turn the players write
a man’s name, a woman’s name, what he did, what
she did, what he said, what she said, and finally
“the consequences.” For fiction-writing gone hay-
wire, you can’t beat it!

Homemade Quizzes: Cut out pictures of differ-
ent Howers from seed catalogs and magazines and
mount them on cards. Then all can guess what
they are. For other guessing contests, clip out
trade-marks 'and slogans from advertisements,
obliterating any telltale words. Do the same with
pictures of different breeds of dogs, trees, wild
animals, and quarter-sections of famous faces.

You can finish the session off right with an
action game on the dining-room table. For Tid-
dlywink Golf, for example, you build a miniature
golf course. ‘Fruit-juice glasses are your holes;
books are your bunkers; a saucer of water’s your
water hazard. ° Big fiat buttons are the clubs with
which you snap small buttons over the course, to
regular golfing rules.

To keep his mind flexible Mark Twain loved to
invent new rules for his evening play at billiards.
As we go into the living-robm,
let’s remember that it’s fun to
do old things in new ways.
Though Hunting the Slipper
and Blindman’s Bu]? were be-
ing played 2,000 years ago in-
Greece, and Drop the Hand-
kerchief was old stuff in China

30 FUN WITHOUT MONEY

and Russia 20 long centuries ago, you can still

invent new rules for playing them.
Among living-room games B nee Fuzz is a favor-

ite. You count aloud in turn, but whenever a
player reaches a number with a 7 in it he shouts,
“Buzz!” instead. If the number’s a multiple of 7
he must call “Buzz Fuzz l” You’re out if you muff,
and finally only one triumphant buzzer is left.

Magic Music is another
good living-room game.
“It” leaves the room, re-
turning when'the others
have decided on an object
he’s to locate. When he

@a
£7
Cb enters the room all hum

a song moderately. If he

nears the object their humming grows louder; if
he goes further away from it they soften the vol-

- ume. When he locates it their song becomes a
shout to tell him he’s won.

 

Teapot starts the same way. But when the player
enters the room the others, in sequence, give him
hints. If they have selected the clock one may say,
“Teapot has such pretty hands!” Another says,
“Teapot stands up so straight l” This goes on until
the object is identified and the last clue-giver be-
comes “itf’ for another game.

Charades shouldn’t be passed by just because
usually played with more people than are in your
family. Simple words like “in-fansee” and “book—
mark” may be acted out by a single person ; so can
the proverb about the rolling stone that gathers no
moss and the one about
the early bird.

The simpler move—
about games go well in
the living-room. Basket
F lip can’t possibly wreck
furnishings. You stand
away from a wastebas-
ket holding old playing
cards between your
thumb and first linger
so they bulge out in a U
and snap forward.
Smaller children are al—
lowed to stand nearer
the basket than their
elders. The winner is
the one who flips the
most of his dozen cards
into the basket.

 

You can even have an Indoor Track Meet in
your living-room. For your shot-put you’ll heave
a paper bag blown up, neck tied with string. Your
30-inch dash will find the contestants holding 30
inches of string dangling from their mouths. At
the go signal all work furiously to draw their
strings into their mouths, using only their lips and
their teeth. For an obstacle race you can nose
buttons across 15 feet of floor.

Did your grandmother ever tell you the fun
folks used to have with beanbags? In a Beanbag
Race you walked briskly with the bag on top of
your head, but it mustn’t fall off. For bowling you
tossed the bag into a half-circle or group of num-
bered circles chalked on the floor. Or you made
circles on cardboard, cut them out, stood the board
up, and tossed your bag through the openings to
score. Grandma will tell you that this game of
Faba Gaba became Fifty or Burst! when she
played for a score of exactly 50. If she went to 46
and then jumped to 51 she had to begin all over.

Why not Indoor Marbles? It’s a game of almost
endless fascination when you learn all the rules
and strange terms used in playing. And where
you can paint or chalk markings on the floor you
can enjoy two popular shipboard games—Horse
Racing and Shufj‘leboard. For your races use
empty bottles and numbers drawn from a hat. Play
Shajj‘leboard with broomsticks and smooth disks

of wood.

Playing games with the lights off is good fun,
even when there’s no ofiicial blackout. Sometime
try this: “I packed my
grandfather’s trunk and
put in an apple.” The
next person repeats
what has been said and
adds another article.
This goes on until only
one wizard can remem-
her all that’s been said.

Try Stammer-jammer.
If Jack begins he may
shout “Father! —A!”
and Dad must stammer
out all the things he can
think of whose names
begin with A while Jack
counts to 50 and some-
one else counts how
many words Dad says.

(Continued on page 54)

Print by Gedge Harmon

Training "for Recreation Leadership

I’I‘H A GREATER need
w than ever before for

their services on one
hand, and greatly depleted
staffs on the other, the rec—
reational agencies of Buf-
falo found themselves in—
creasingly dependent on vol-
unteers. To meet the need
for more trained leaders, the
training committee of the
Education and Leisure Time
Division of the Buffalo
Council of Social Agencies, in cooperation with the
Office of Civilian Mobilization and the Recreation
Committee of the Buffalo War Council, during
November and December 1942, conducted a seven
weeks’ Recreation Institute with classes meeting
once a week for a three-hour session.

Believing that recreation programs supply a
vital need in maintaining civilian morale, the Of-
fice of Civilian Mobilization assumed the major
responsibility for recruiting. Through its public
relations committee speakers addressed groups on
the importance of this opportunity for training to
assist in the war effort. It also arranged for a
short broadcast on the subject. Organizations
carrying on leisure-time programs recruited for
the Institute from among their active volunteers.
Applicants were carefully selected, each. being in-
terviewed by a committee of the Office of Civilian
. Mobilization or by the agency from which the vol-
unteer was recruited.

There was community-wide cooperation. Thirty-
two organizations— educational, religious, civic
organizations and social agencies, both public and
private—participated in the project.

A fee of $1 was charged to help defray the cost
of materials used, but there was no fee for in—
struction.

One hundred fifty-four men and women regis-
tered for the Institute. They ranged in age from
fifteen to fifty-five years, the majority being from
twenty to thirty years of age. Educational back-
ground varied from grade school graduation to
graduate work in universities. Two-thirds of the
group were either in college at the time, or had
had some college background. About one-third
were college graduates, one-third business women

 

Each member of the Institute received a
copy of the "Recreation Manual." a forty-
eight page mimeographed booklet contain-
ing descriptions of the games. folk dances.
crafts. and dramatic material presented
at the Institute. as well as some of the
recreational techniques useful for begin-
ners. An extensive bibliography was in-
cluded. A limited number of copies of
the Manual are available at sixty cents
each from the Council of Social Agencies.

86 West Chippewa Street. Buffalo. N. Y.

and housewives, and one-
third professional men and
women. One hundred and
three of the one hundred
fifty-four who enrolled com-
pleted the .course. Certifi-
cates of membership in the
United States Service Corps
were given by the Buffalo
War Council.

Workshops were set up in
the Institute in arts and
crafts, storytelling and in—
formal dramatics, parties, and games and square
dancing. Group singing was a part of each session
and a special song book was prepared for use at
the Institute. The leaders showed real skill in
guiding the relationships in the various workshop
groups. What was preached, was practiced! In
demonstrations where materials were used, it was
of special interest to note the scrap utilized where
the usual media was lacking. This is particularly
evident in the ration party which ended all the
events of the Institute.

Discussions were led by Mrs. H. L. Levin,
training specialist in recreation and group work of
the Buffalo Council of Social Agencies. These dis—
cussions covered such subjects as: Groups and
Why Pe0ple Join Them, Helping Clubs Plan Their
Activities, Making Merry with More Than
Twenty, and the Place of the Volunteer in Group
Work.

A book exhibit and an arts and crafts exhibit
were held in connection with the Institute.

It was understood that all who took the Insti-
tute courses would give volunteer service to an
agency carrying on leisure-time activities. A large
number of members had been giving such service
prior to the Institute; thirty-eight joined the vol-
unteer ranks of a number of the agencies after
completing the Institute. All placements were done
by the Office of Civilian Mobilization Recreation
Placement Committee. Additional members are
still being placed, and requests are being received
for further training.

 

NOTE: With training courses in recreation leadership
springing up everywhere, we want to remind our readers
(Continued on page 48)

31

A Housing Project for theBirds

 

By EDWARD J. RONSHEIM

Instructor in Recreation
Anderson College. Indiana

“BIRDHOUSE” building contest is probably as
A common an activity as anyone can name.
Schools, Scout troops. camps, and recreation
centers hold them every spring, but few groups
suggest building real “houses for the birds,” houses
which the birds will want to use and can use with
complete safety for their young.

With this in mind. we launched our first bird—
house contest several years ago, and the one rule
which the judges had to back their decisions called
for structures which the birds could actually use.
There was, of course, some difficulty when parents
found out that the beautiful house Johnny had
built, with its fine red chimney, bright blue trim
on the glaring white sides, and its flag snapping in
patriotic fervor overhead, had
been put aside without an
award while Billie’s rough
looking contraption, decorated
only as nature had seasoned
the wood and without orna-
ment, proudly displayed the
blue ribbon.

32

There are very few boys and girls in
Anderson. Indiana, who do not feel
the urge to build houses for birds each
spring. They are houses in which the
birds really wam‘ to live. and fhe pro-
gram is sfarfed early enough to per-
mif placing the houses in frees before
fhe birds begin their flight north.

But, as our trio of ex—
perts, including the wide-
ly-known Paul Champion,
had said, “That’s just
what the birds would be
looking for.” And so the
“houses for the birds”
developed, from year to
year, until boys and girls
learned how to build
sound structures which a
bird would select, yet a
type of house which was
a long way beyond Billie’s
first blue ribbon winner.

A lack of space for dis-
play forced us to limit the
contest to grade schools
in the city and adjoining
township. Even at that,
more than 350 boys and
girls built houses, with more than half of them
entering the contest. There were many divisions
and classes. In the beginning, girls did not com-
pete with boys. The junior high age, the fifth and
sixth grades, and the grades from five down made
up three divisions. This gave six units of boys and
girls. Then each type of house made another di-
vision, the only rule being that a house entered had
to be planned for some birds common to our locality.

Our first show was held on a main business
street with the houses set up on knock—down tables.
There was just one trouble: so many people came
out of plain curiosity that those who really were
interested had a hard time st0pping in line long
enough to examine the structures. Later we moved
to a less public place, but one where hundreds
came daily to learn how to build houses. And
when pe0ple found that a boy or girl would rarely
part with the house he or she had constructed,
hundreds of them began to build their own houses
at home.

By this time, we had set up
special racks which allowed a
house either to hang or rest on
a shelf, as best suited to its
construction. In this way each
house stood out alone. There

(Continued on page 51)

 

AVE YUU ever stopped
H to wonder why “bun-

nies” and “chicks” are
so omnipresent at Easter?
Or why colored eggs make
their gay appearance at this
season when at other times
they are so drab and purely
utilitarian? There is a legend about the Easter
rabbit which is cherished by children in many
European countries. It goes something like this:

“Once upon a time a kind rabbit who was walking
along a quiet woodland road came upon a fine large
'nest filled with eggs. The poor Mother Hen had been
seized ‘by a wicked fox and could not go back to her
nest, so the rabbit slept all night upon it and when he
awoke in the morning, Easter morning, the nest was
filled with little downy chickens! The chickens thought
that the rabbit .was their mother, so they cried for
something to eat. The rabbit ran about and fetched
food for them and kept them warm and fed until they
were old enough to care for themselves.”

Ever since then the rabbit has been the special
genius of Easter time!

Easter Games and Activities

The Easter nest may be made to serve the same
purpose as the Christmas stocking. Place any favors
you may have to distribute in it and use it as a
part of your decorations. The nest may be hidden
ahead of time somewhere in the house. When the

"The name (of Easter) was once believed
to be derived from 'Eostre,' the Anglo-
Saxon goddess of spring. Some of its rites
may be traced back to the old heathen
feast of Eostur which celebrated the com-
ing of the spring sun from the east."—

Olive 8. Barton in The Woman, April '40

Print by Gedge Harmm

Easter Has Its Own Traditions

guests arrive announce to
them that a nest is concealed
in one of the rooms and that
if a lucky person finds it
there will be gifts for him
and his friends.

Bunny Relay. Hide an
Easter egg at each end of
the room in which the game is to be played. Divide

the players into two equal teams, each player stand-

ing in file formation with his back in the direction
in which he is to go. At a given signal, the first
player in each team turns around and jumps in
bunny fashion to the other end of the room. He
searches until he flnds the egg, jumps back to the
other end of themoom, and hides the egg for the
opposite team to find. Then he jumps back and
touches the next player in the opposing team. This
continues until each person has had a turn. The
team finishing first wins.

Feeding the Chicks. Since the Easter bunny, ac-
cording to tradition, must feed the chicks, you
might try this relay. '

Divide the group into two teams and place a
pile of carrots in front of each. Each player in
turn, with his hands clasped behind his back, hops
up to the carrots, brings one back in his mouth,
and touches off the next player, Any player who
drops his carrot must pick it up again without
using his hands.

33

34 EASTER HAS ITS OWN TRADITIONS

Stealing Chicks. Why not adapt some of the old
games to suit the Easter traditions so dear to

children ?

There’s “Stealing Sticks,” for example. This
might just as well be called “Stealing Chicks.”
Instead of having sticks in a circle, arrange some
candy chicks in a nest and place it between two
teams. The person who is “it” is the Easter bunny
and the players are the foxes. The bunny tries to
protect the chicks and may tag anyone who comes
within his reach. The
person tagged becomes
the Easter bunny. If a
fox succeeds in stealing
a chick, he may keep it
but must leave the game.

Squirrel in a Tree is
another game which
lends itself to adapta-
tion. Two—thirds of the
players choose partners,
face each other, and
hold their hands above
their heads. Each couple
represents a clump of
grass in which a chick
may hide. The remain—
ing players are the
chicks, and each tries to
hide from the foxes in
the grass. (This is ac-
complished by stooping
under the arms of any
two players represent-
ing a clump of grass and
standing between them.)
There should be an odd
player who is the fox.

To start the game, the
leader claps his hands
and calls out, “The fox is coming,” whereupon all
the chicks must change to a new clump of grass.
The fox tries to catch a chick. If he is successful
the player caught becomes the fox.

Bunny Ring Game. Cut the silhouette of a large
rabbit from cardboard and dress it with cutouts
of colored paper or cloth. Tack it to a packing box
so it will stand erect. Each guest may try his luck
at ringing the bunny’s ears. The rings may be
wooden hooks such as those used for embroidery
or mason jar rings. The player winning the con-
test receives a prize.

 

Easter Eggs

An interesting Old World custom comes to us
from Russia. During the Easter holidays, on en-
tering the door of a home it was the custom for a
caller to kiss the hand of the hostess. In return
the guest was given a gilded or red egg, according
to his rank or station. This old custom would

make a colorful opening for a party, the red egg
being reserved for the children and the gilded ones

for the elders or out-of—town guests.
Easter eggs were first

used to convey mes-
sages as valentines are
today. Each person car-
ried a brightly colored
egg on Easter morning
and, on meeting a friend,
exchanged an egg with
him. The messages were
traced on a hot egg with
candle wax and then
dipped in dye. Later,
the wax was removed,
leaving the written mes-
sage in white. This
method of writing 0n
eggs can still be used
for party favors or mix-
ers. Even an invitation
could be carried on an
egg.

In parts of England
it was the custom for a
young man to ask a
young lady for an Easter
egg on Sunday morning.
If she refused, he re-
moved her shoes and

as I.“ “
' C

*- 7- would not return them

1: Id ' ' ° '
ram an 0 1’7"” untll a, forfeit was paid.

Since turnabout is fair play, the girl would snatch
the young man’s hat unless he, too, gave the
colored egg she demanded.

This old custom can easily be turned into a
party game or, better still, a neighborhood game.
Old folk customs such as this one are refreshing
and will be accepted by the young folk in almost
any community.

Another egg ceremony is carried out by the
little girls in Czechoslovakia. They decorate blown
egg shells in delicate fruit and flower patterns
against a black background. On Easter morning

(Continued on. page 45)

 

 

oo'

 

 

Nature’s Quiz-quest
by Ellsworth Jaeger

I. Whal' common animal's claws show
in his hack?

2. Whal' animal's claws do no+ show
in his hack?

3. Wha+ animal places his from‘ fee+
diagonally behind his hind fee+?

4. Wha‘l’ animal pairs his from‘ fee‘l’
behind his hind fee+?

5. Wha+ common bird hops?
6. Wha+ common bird hops and

runs? -

7. Wha+ animal makes a diagonal
frack?

8. Whal animal's +racl< some+imes ‘
shows only +wo loes and ol'her
Jrimes shows four? l

 

(If you need lo. {urn fo page 43] l

 

From Hobbies, December 1942, Buffalo Museum of Science

 

35

Unity Through Music

1-113 1943 MUSIC WEEK National and Inter-American Music Week. vidual workers, government
Tspecial keynote will be +0 be ce‘Ebraied “1‘5 Year May 2'9: W'” be oflicials, and educational

“Foster American and

\Vorld Unity Through

the twentieth annual observance of the 1 - - o

eade1 all te -
week. Extracts from the letter sent by S um m a com
C. M. Tremaine. Secretary of the Commit-

mon desire to extend the in—

Music." This is the same +ee in charge. +0 |oca| Music week chain fluence of music, most demo-
keynote as a year ago, CX- men and workers  be of interest to cratic Of all arts, and the
cept that we have added the recreation leaderS. some of whom are ’rak- wholesome enjoyment which
word 3 “ Fo ste r” and “‘9 “‘9 lead in ihei" °°mmuni+ies in mak' comes from listening to

“\Vorld.” \Vorld unity
should be the aim of all en-
lightened leaders, seeking harmony and the estab-
lishment of permanent peace in a democratic world,

ruled by free peoples. There is no arbitrary'

formula which can achieve this condition, human
nature and the many conflicting individual and na-
tional interests being what they are. Our hope
must be in the educational process and the increas~
ing thought which all nations devote to the discov—
L‘l‘}' and promotion of our common interests. These
interests are many, and music is distinctly one of
them. It breathes the spirit of harmony and co—
operation, and is an ideal 'medium for advancing
that spirit.

Music Week has clearly demonstrated the value
of music as a unifying force in thousands of local
Communities and in the nation. For seven days
each year widely diversified organizations, indi-

ing plans for the observance of the week.

music and participation in
its making.

May we not hope some day for an International
Music Week in which all civilized peoples who
desire accord will join—each nation, each com-
munity, each group and individual in its own way,
and to whatever extent it wishes? Surely it is not
too early to sound the note and extend the in—
vitation.

We need not, however, and must not, lose sight
of the fact that we are at present engaged in a
gigantic struggle to preserve our way of life and
democratic institutions. Music is helpful in the
war effort and can be far more so than many
realize. Let us use it more fully. Therefore, dur~
ing the 1943 Music Week we will again give
emphasis to the clearly demonstrated fact that
“Music Helps Morale.” We will also use it to
speed up production, relieve nerve strain, and

36

 

David Sarnoff. (left).
President. Radio
Corporation of
America. has been
chairman of the Na-
tional Music Week

Committee
since I935

From I924 to I934.
Otto Kahn. (right).
nationally known
patron of music.
served as chairman
of the National
Music Week Com-

mittee

 

UNITY THROUGH MUSIC 37

refresh the spirit. \Ve will help in solving the man-
power problem by utilizing music to bring relief and
increase the endurance of overtaxed workers.

Music \Veek will of course continue to foster
American music.

It will continue its Inter-American phase. in-
augurated in 1941: There will again be emphasis
in this country on the music of our Western Hemi—
sphere neighbors, and their reciprocal attention to
the music of our composers. There will also be
increased attention to the
music of the United
Nations, looking for-
ward to the early initia-
tion of an International

Music Week.

‘ . My dear Mr. Tremaine:
The central Music

 

THE WHITE HOUSE
Washington

March 5, 1943

Honorable Henry Morgenthau, Jr.
Secretary of the Treasury
Washington, D. C.

Dear Sir :

Following conferences our leaders have had with rep—
resentatives of the United States Treasury Department,
I am very happy to tell you that the full resources of the
National Music Week Committee will be placed behind
the appeal to the music forces of America to cooperate
with the United States Treasury in the, sale of War
Bonds and Savings Stamps.

It is our suggestion that
National Music Week,
which this year from May
2nd to 9th celebrates its
20th annual observance, be
the occasion for the music
lovers of America, includ-

March I6. I943

\Veek Committee wishes
to make special mention
of the Biennial of the
National Federation of
Music Clubs, which is
to be held during the
observance, and is to
take the form of a fes-
tival of the air, through
the cooperation of the
leading broadcasting
chains and many local
stations. This festival
will naturally be an out—
standing extensive 'fea-
ture of the Music Week
observance, and we
shall take great pleasure
in offering our hearty
cooperation. The music
clubs have long been one
of the most, if not the
most, active single group
of participants, as was

i wish to express my appreciation for the work car-
ried on by your committee through the National and
inter-American Music Week Program. This year the
celebration of Music Week is especially significant.

For two decades your organization has emphasized
the vital role of music in our national life. That pro-
gram was broadened two years ago to include an inter-
change of the musical treasures of all the Americas.
Last year you further aided freedom's cause by en-
couraging the study and enioyment of the music of the
United Nations.

Music builds morale. It inspires our fighting men on
battlefields abroad and in training camps at home. it
spurs soldiers on the production front to new goals. it
refreshes all of us. young and old alike. as we move
forward in our wartime tasks to inevitable victory.

Throughout the centuries music has well served as
the universal language. As modern science conquers
time and space. music assumes an ever-increasing im-
portance in international understanding. it will con-
tribute much to strengthening the bonds of friendship
and cooperation among the Americas and the other
free peOples in the peaceful world of tomorrow.

Very sincerely yours.

FRAN KLI N D. ROOSEVELT

Mr. C. M. Tremaine, Secretary.

National and Inter-American Music Week Committee.
3l5 Fourth Avenue,

New York. N. Y.

 

ing all those engaged in
music professionally and
commercially, as well as
that large group of organi-
zations and community
leaders using music as one
of the important means of
life enrichment, to express
again their devotion to our
common war effort by the
purchase of War Bonds
and Stamps.

The first of the four
freedoms, “Freedom of
Speech and Expression.”
has a special meaning for
those who make music as
well as those who enjoy it.
I am therefore confident
that all those who are re—
lated in any way to the
great cause of music in
America will respond to
this opportunity to cooper-
ate with the government in
this way at that time.

For your information, the
National and Inter-Ameri-

to be expected from the nature of their work.

The strength and vitality of the observance,
however, lies in the wholehearted support of, and
participation by, the thirty—three national organi—
zations represented on our central committee, their
thousands of local groups and their millions of in—
dividual members. The spontaneity of the partici—
pation makes Music Week truly a movement of the
people, for the people and by the people.

The keynote of the 1943 Music Week is best
expressed by the following letters:

can Music Week Committee is a cooperative undertaking
with some thirty-four national and international organiza-
tions participating. There are some eight hundred state
chairmen in the various organizations giving leadership
to Music Week activities in over three thousand commu-
nities. TheNational Committee will be very happy to
suggest to its local affiliates and to all who are cooperat-
ing in the observance of Music Week this year that they
do everything possible to relate the many and varied pro-
grams to the vitally important task we all have to pro-
vide the funds for our war effort.

Sincerely yours,

DAVID SARNOFF

38 UNITY THROUGH MUSIC

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
' WASHINGTON
March 12, 1943

Mr. David Sarnoff, Chairman
National and Inter-American Music \Veek Committee
National Recreation Association

315 Fourth Avenue
New York City

Dear Mr. Sarnoff,

The suggestion in your letter of March 5th that this
year’s celebration of National Music Week be made an
occasion for a special expression on the part of musicians
of their devotion to the common war effort by the pur-
chase of \Var Bonds and Stamps is one of the many im-
portant contributions which the musical life of this coun-
try has made to the great cause in which we are all
engaged. ’

Since the beginning of the Defense and War Savings
campaigns, musicians have been of immense help in Treas—
ury programs. They have given of their talents and
energies with unfailing generosity to this and to many
other causes.

I am confident that the joint efforts of so many musi—
cians as are represented in the organization of National
Music \Veek will bring about notable results.

Sincerely,
(Signed) H. MORGENTHAU, JR.

Music Week in a Michigan Community

The story of 1942 Music Week in Houghton—
Hancock, Michigan, (twin cities) is the story of a
community which found unity through music.

Under the able leadership of Mrs. Frederick C.
Stoyle, State Historian of the Michigan Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs, committees with repre—
sentatives of local organizations, including city
department, schools, and civic groups of all
kinds, worked indefatigably to make Music Week
the success it proved to be. The observance was
ushered in by proclamations from President Har—
old Brown of the village of Houghton and Mayor
J. B. Coon of Hancock urging the importance of
the \Veek.

Local newspapers published editorials and an-
nounced events and cooper-
ated in every possible way.
Churches gave their full
support, making announce-
ments. of events, ringing
chimes on Sunday morning.
and stressing in sermons
and musical services the
values of music. Local thea-
ters cooperated by present-
ing appropriate films and
musical scores and by in-
cluding in their advertise-

"We need now in this hemisphere to un-
derstand each other. We can contribute
largely to this through the medium of music.
the spirit of which we understand and ap-
preciate. . . . The peoples of our hemisphere
are music loving peoples. This is a true
reflection of our civilization. Music is the
most democratic of all the arts—the one
common language through which we can
best express and best advance our com-
mon aspirations and the spirit of coopera-
tion."—Extracts from an editorial in the

Sunday Mining Gazette. May 3. I942.

ments such phrases as “Observe National Music
Week, May 4th to 10th” or “Appreciate National
Music Week.” Advertisements of banks and local
merchants also carried references to Music Week.

Music teachers of the community presented
piano recitals and Special programs, and the St.
Cecilia Chorus of Houghton—Hancock sponsored a
community sing and concert. The Department of
Music of Suomi College, in its spring concert
given in cooperation with the National Music
Week Committee, presented for the first' time a
choral arrangement of Beethoven’s Fifth Sym-
phony made by Professor Martti Nisonen. The
Public Library made its contribution by arranging
a display of books on music.

The Week came to a climax in the May Band
Festival at the Amphidrome consisting of a parade
of all the bands of the community and a concert
of massed bands.

What Music Week meant to the twin cities,is
best expressed in the words of Mrs. Stoyle, gen-

eral chairman :

“National Music \Veek has proven a powerful factor
in unifying and stimulating interest in our local organi-
zations (musical and otherwise); each with but a single
thought and common interest in which ‘participation’ by
everyone became an accepted fact, all striving toward the
same goal, ‘American Unity Through Music.’ The thea-
ters ran a special ‘rider’ with words and music for our
National Anthem—this was most heart-warming! Old,
young, rich and poor, the scholar and the illiterate, all
found common ground when they raised their voices in
the universal language which knows no bounds, race or
creed, that of music.

“I heard a voice behind me; it was foreign (perhaps
Croatian). He knew the tune, that was all that mat-
tered! \Vhen I turned, upon leaving the theater, took
his hand and thanked him for his expression through
song, tears stood in his eyes and although he could not
answer me in English, our hearts were one in interest.
If National Music Week did no more than bring joy to
that one person, my portion in bringing it about was

amply repaid.

“The Rotary Clubs, Chamber
of Commerce and Lions Clubs
held special song festivals at
their meetings, cooperating with
the local committee. Professor
Martti N isonen’s choral arrange-
ment of Beethoven’s Fifth was
a magnificent thing!

“There is so much to be said.
but so little space to say it in!
The Band Festival was as re-
freshing as the warm sun on
the lovely spring evening, when

(Continued on page 44)

 

lt’s Being Done “in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

AJlIPING. Free illustrated booklets from

National Park Service, Washington: “Picnic
Fireplaces,” 14 pp. ; “Signs,” 20 pp.; “Organized
Camp Facilities,” 86 pp.

Camping in N ew York State. A 165-page com-
prehensive study by Arthur T. Wilcox, graduate
student of the New York State College of For-
estry at Syracuse, entitled “Camping in New York
State,” is full of interesting data from 808 or-
ganized camps. Seven hundred twenty—three were
“youth camps,” and 30.1 per cent were coeduca-
tional. In 1939 there were 203,277 persons for
4, 212,000 camper days, but only 1.15 per cent of
the total youth population (ages 7-17) attended.
The shortest period was 7.4 days for 4-H Club
camps. Camps were filled to 57 per cent of pos-
sible. capacity. Girl Scouts had 3.8 campers per
counselor, and service clubs had 10.5. The lead-
ership included approximately 6,250 persons. The
weekly fee ranged from $7.42 to $24.23, and the
average was $12.86. The total camp area was
115,000 acres. Fifty per cent of the camps had
less than 50 acres. These figures are significant
for those thinking about the evacuation of children
to camp.

Conservation. The October Bulletin of the
Massachusetts Audubon Society has a vital story
on how it accomplishes conservation under the title
“Nature is Respectable.” Since 1939 the Society
has increased from 7 conservation courses in 4
towns to 42 courses in 21 towns. “Never in my
educational experience have I seen boys and girls
devour any educational effort with more avidity
and pleasure,” commented a superintending Prin-
cipal. The Bulletin is $1.00 per year. You should
see this 38-page number; write to.66 Newbury
Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

Farm Zoo on a Playground. Goat, hen, duck,
baby pig, police horse (with policeman), cow
(have someone milk her), etc. Take a “Gallup
Poll” of the neighborhood. A horse and a colt are
worth more than three horses. A hen and rooster
have more educational possibilities than three hens.
A pig and a litter are better than two dozen ducks.
Have the children run the zoo and be the guides
for visitors. Get a record of diets from the owners.

Food Charts, 14 x 20 inches, prepared by U. S.

. Bureau of Home Economics. “Fight Food Waste

in the Home” and “Get the Good From Your
Food.” Sold in sets only. 25 cents per set of 10.

‘U. S. Printing OHice, Washington.

Gardening. “25 Vegetables Anyone Can Grow,”
Ann Roe Robbins, Crowell Company, New York.
219 pp., illus. $2.25.

“Gardner’s Handbook,” L. H. Bailey, Macmil-
lan Company, New York, 1941. 292 pp.; illus.
$1.49.

Gardening is quickening the whole outlook on
nature appreciation in the Chicago Park District.
Gardeners in the recreation department are giving
nights and days off to the demand. Munition plant
workers asked for a speaker. It was one of the
first get-togethers of the new housing community.
The victory garden movement became a neighbor-
hood project with cooperating committees. The
reluctant speaker returned ' enthusiastic. “The
story aptly points the moral that nothing which we
do is done in a vacuum.”—Vic Brown.

Gardens, Victory. 1. Select an area not in use.
2. Make it a neighborhood demonstration of stand-
ard varieties of garden vegetables. 3. Get advice
of a local eXpert “dirt gardener.” 4. Choose chil-
dren who apply for space to work. 5. A defense
garden, like industrial defense, is best when pro-
tected by a fence. 6. Do not forget to brighten the
borders with marigolds, zinnias, ageratum, and
petunias. 7. Have a celebration such as a harvest
festival. 8. Reassure gardeners of the part they
have taken for morale, health and victory.

Girl Guide C amps in England are financed by
the government. In conquered countries, scouting
has been suppressed and militaristic groups sub-
stituted. In free countries, camps are being subsi-
dized by governments.

Leadership. “The Rainbow Road,” a 30-page
pamphlet of selected short writings and broadcasts
by Prof. A. W. Nolan, who has completed 30
years at the University of Illinois in the field of
Vocational Agriculture Education. A philosophy
of rural life. Distributed by the Illinois State De-

partment of Education, Springfield, Illinois.
(Continued on page 54)

39

Two-Way Bowling Scores a Ten-Strike

 

Army men are enthusiastic over this new game
which makes bowling a two-way proposition

wo-WAY BOWLING, a new and intriguing rec-
Treational sport, has in its short existence made

a ten-strike with Uncle Sam’s fighting men;
already it is being hailed as the “new Army game”
and, judging from the interest being displayed by
civilians, the game bids fair to become exceedingly
pOpular with the general public.

Two-way bowling is like regulation bowling with
the added advantage that it overcomes the handi-
caps of cost and space necessary for regulation
sized alleys and does not require pin boys. In ad-
dition, it is portable and even ornamental to a rec-
reation or playroom. It provides the pleasure and
exercise which ordinary bowling offers, and is so
constructed that the players do not overstrain
themselves. As in the regular game, it is a trial of
skill, and the scoring is exactly the same.

In the camps where two-way bowling has been
installed the men are keenly enthusiastic over it.
A commanding ofhcer of the Dem] Detachment at
Fort Hamilton, where an alley has been installed
in the Day Room, declared that it had afforded a
great deal of pleasure for the members of the de-
tachment. The enthusiasm with which it has been
received at the Fort is best evidenced by the

40

 

 HAMIle ‘statements of the men.
3mm 1.", m. themselves.

“This beats anything I
have ever tried and, be-
lieve me, I have tried all
kinds of games,” said a
staff sergeant. "\Ve
should have had one of
these alleys a long time
ago,” said another non-
commissioned officer.
“It’s the answer to our
entertainment problem,”
according to a third. That
it would “keep him in
nights” was the state—
ment of one enthusiastic A
sergeant.

At the present time the
game is providing many
hours of wholesome,
healthy exercise and fun for our men in the Air
Corps, Army, Coast Guard, Marines, and Navy
from Guantanamo Bay to Alaska; from New
York to California.

The two-way bowling alley is 23 feet overall in
length and 29 inches in width, with the alley 18
inches above the floor. The equipment is portable
and when packed in sections the shipping weight
is approximately 800 pounds.

The alley floor is made of high grade edged,
grained hardwood, sturdily built, with inlaid spots
at both ends for pins to be set up accurately. The
pins are hardwood, 7% inches high, with 2%
inches belly thickness: The hardwood bowling
balls are 9-9/16 inches in diameter.

The pits at each end swing open on durable
casters to assure easy operation of both playing
ends. They are protected by floor mats and heavy
swinging canvas cushions. When the pins are
struck by the ball, they automatically drop into
the pit,

The game may be played by units of two or
more people, and the scoring is kept exactly as in
regulation bowling. The player “up” has pins set
up by his opponents—player’s pit is open; oppo-
nent’s pit is closed. Upon completion of the play-
er’s “try,” the player becomes pin-boy for the op-
ponent, sets up the pins at his own end, and closes

’ 6‘

his pit for the opponent 5 try.”

WORLD AT PLAY

3’

THE “blue rint for
P
postwar rural Br1ta1n

which has been drawn

Toward a Better
Countryside

up for the Ministry of '

\Vorks and Planning, according to the September
30, 1942, issue of Bulletins from. Britain, recom—
mends a social center, hall, theater, library, and
possibly a canteen and a clinic for English villages.
The village inn, it is stressed, will be for the vil-
lagers and not for use as a roadhouse. Footpaths,
stiles, and bridges will be maintained by the local
authorities, In remote or hilly areas, footpaths and
forest ways will be marked by bands of color on
the trees in the continental fashion.

 

THE Nassau County,
New York, Board of
Supervisors has made
available to prospec-
tive victory gardeners 400 acres of county owned
land. The county acquired this land as a result of
tax delinquencies and it will be offered free to ap-
plicants in about 100 communities. The county
commissioners guarantee that if any of the land is

sold, the sale will be subject to the harvesting of
crops.

400 Acres for
Gardens

 

 

THE Library of Con-
gress has issued a
check-list of 10,000
titles of recorded songs
in the English language in the archives of Ameri-
can folk song. The list includes representative
variants of most of the important types of Ameri-
can folk song. The recordings were all made where
the singers or performers lived or worked, fiddlers,
evangelists. cotton pickers, convicts, miners, hoboes
——all of them played or sang into the microphones
of America’s ballad hunters. ’The result is an im—

portant documentation of our country's oral tra~
dition.

Records of American
Folk Music

 

 

THREE nature trails
are being deve10ped by
the Department of
_ Parks and Recreation
in Schenectady, New York, and will be in opera—
tion sometime in May. Eighty-seven different
types of trees will be identified along the trails by
wooden signs wired to the trees. The signs are

Nature Trails at
Schenectady

 

being made by woodworking and art classes at the
evening community centers, Supervised tours
under trained leaders will be planned for school
children, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and adults. The
present plans will also include the accurate mark-
ing and identifying of all flowers within the park
system.

l.\’ DENVER, Colorado,
$4,000 has been ap-
propriated for the oper-
ation of five square
dance centers at school gymnasiums. Groups meet
at these centers once a week. Callers are paid at

the rate of $2.00 an hour; musicians at $1.00 an
hour.

Square Dance Centers
Popular

I.\' SENDING in a re-
port for the Year Book
on the recreation pro-
gram conducted in 1942
in the city of Rexburg, Idaho, Mayor D. W.
Stowell writes:

“I personally feel that the program has been
worth while and that it has been worth much more
than the small amount of money that has been
expended—especially in view of the rising tide of

Mayor Approves Rec-
reation Program

juvenile delinquency which is sweeping the nation

today. ”

PRESTON, Ontario,
Canada, has opened a
youth recreation cen-
ter known as “The-
Hub” which will be operated as a community proj-
ect for teen age boys. The first attempt in Preston
and vicinity to‘provide organized year-round rec-
reation facilities, the center is being sponsored by
public-spirited citizens. It is located in a former
store building which has been vacant for the past
six months. In addition to providing adequate
space for recreation facilities, the building is ideally
located.

A Recreation Center
for Youth

“LEARNING the Ways
of Democracy” will be

the theme of Boys and

Girls Week to be ob- ‘
served this year April 24th to May Ist. The Na-

tional Boys and Girls \Veek Committee, in charge

41

Boys and Girls
Week 1943

 

42 W'ORLD AT PLAY

of the observance, has issued a manual of sugges~
tions which may be secured on request from the
Committee at 35 East VVacker Drive, Chicago.
The Committee also offers copies of the Advance
Herald, a pictorial folder on the \Veek especially
suited for‘ use as a poster.

’3

“This year——-Ig43—— says the Committee, “the
observance of Boys and Girls Week in each com-
munity takes on greater significance than at any
time since the origination of the Week in 1920,
for never during the past twenty-three years has
the welfare of youth been in greater danger than
it is today.”

Recreation departments will wish to cooperate
with the National Boys and Girls Week Commit-
tee in insuring the future of democracy by doing
everything possible to facilitate the normal de-
velopment of boys and girls.

Joseph Lee Day -— Plans are under way in
several communities for the 1943 celebration of
Joseph Lee Day which has been officially set for
Friday, July 30.

Parties and Programs

for Parents’ Days

Ry JULIA A. ROGERS

HIS YEAR Mother’s Day will be celebrated on
May 9th and Father’s Day on June 20th.

What are you planning for these Observances? You
will find plenty of help in your planning in the book,
Parties and Programs for Parents’ Days, with its sug-
gestions for parties, banquets, school and community
center programs, games, sketches, and stunts.

Best of all, these activities may be used on all occa-
sions, and they provide a wealth of program material.
To make the book more readily available, the price
has been reduced from 75 cents to 50 cents for the
paper bound edition and from $1.25 to $1.00 for the
cloth bound edition.

V

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational \Departments

Complete Line of

‘ r l ‘I‘y
' r3: ,
-  .2

’ THE P. GOLDSMITH stS, Inc.
JOHN AND FlNDLAY SlS., ClNClNNATl. OHIO

J v" -

Wartime Recreation—Last December, under
the auspices of the Chicago Recreation Commis-
sion, a Conference on Wartime Recreation was
held —— with the slogan, “Recreation for Total
Victory.” Mimeographed Proceedings of the C 0n-
ference are now available. Included in the report
are the opening address by Dr. Frank S. Lloyd on
“The Recreational Outlook After a Year at War,”
with the panel discussion which followed, and the
address, “Free Nations Mobilize Community
Forces,” by Miss Charlotte \Vhitton,’ editor of
Canadian H/elfare. Summaries are presented of a
number of group meetings and of a discussion by
Dr. Lloyd, “How Can We Make Sure That Rec-
reation Will .Contribute to Total Victory?” Ad-
dresses given at the dinner meeting by Dr. Philip
L. Seman, Mayor Kelly, and Dr. Clarence A.
Dykstra, president of the University of Wisconsin.
are incorporated in the Proceedings, as are ac-
counts of a number of special features such as the

Youth Dinner.

Copies of the Proceedings at 50 cents each may
be secured from the Municipal Reference Library,

City Hall, Chicago. Orders should be accompanied
by currency or by two or three cent stamps.

CLEVELAND’S BACKYARD THEATER

Cleveland's Backyard Theater“

( C ant-inued from page 11)
the battlefronts an Alaskan film, “Silver Millions,”
was shown. This gave an opportunity to discuss
the history, geography,_ and industrial life of

Alaska.
Housing is a problem of first importance in

Cleveland, so the film, “Homes and Trees,” was
shown at one of the meetings to demonstrate the
steps being taken to relieve the shortage of hous-
ing for defense workers. The day the Indian
problem flamed into a crisis, the British Vice~
Consul lent the documentary film, “The Changing
Face of India,” and gave the historical background

for the present difficulties.

For the last program two films made by the
U. S. Department of Agriculture -were shown:
“Plows, Planes, and Peace” and “The Battle Is in
Our Hands.” The chairman of the County Agri—
cultural Association told of the part farmers were
playing in the production program.

During the series of programs, 850 pe0ple at-
tended the Backyard Theater, an average of 100 at
every meeting. The unofficial audience numbered
hundreds more, for each week groups gathered on
near-by porches and in the yards of neighbors to
watch the program.

No rules can be definitely stated on which a suc-
cessful program can be based. There were some
points, however, that helped. First, it was the in-
formality of the theater that was its life. The
audience was the most important part of each pro-
gram; from the speakers and from each other they
learned answers to questions that had been troubl-
ing them. As long as the films were new it did
not matter if they were on controversial questions;
if the issues were clearly drawn, they were the
more important.

For all participating it was an opportunity to
take a creative part in a cooperative community
enterprise. From the theater the people of the com-
munity learned that the Glenville Branch was the
place to go when planning a program. It also
showed them again that the library was interested
in taking an active part in community life. To
some of the members of the audience the Backyard
Theater was a first introduction to the library.

Additional activities conducted by the Cleveland
Public Library are reported in an article, “After

School They Go to the Library,” by Olga M.

 

41:-
DJ

E
"g"
1%

iii—ill!"lllllllllllllllllll|l|l|||Illlllllllllllllllll|l|||||IllllllllllllllllllllIllll||l||l|||l||ll|ll|l|IlllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllll|||||||l|l|||IlllllllllllllIllllllll|ll|IllllllllllIlllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllll|l|l||||||l|

InIllumnmummuulmuuuulM

HE UNIVERSAL APPEAL
of this booklet should
commend it not only to play leaders
but to teachers, club leaders, parents, and
all concerned with children's play. For in
this publication, designed for children of
all ages, from early childhood to adoles-
cence-—-— for indoor and outdoor play—-

there are singing games, tag games, relays,
ball games, miscellaneous active games,

quiet games, and nature games.

Price 50 cents

National Recreation Association

3|5 Fourth Avenue
New York City

i-‘il llllllllllllllllllllll||1|l||Illlllllllllllllllllll||l||l|I|IlllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllIlllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllllIlllll

..
_.
_.
c:
H
._..
_.
_.
._..
._..
_.
._
H
_.
._..
_.
._
_
_.
.._..
._
._
._..
;-_..-
._
._
._
.._..
._
._
H
_.
._
H
H
._
_.
..__.
._..
=
._..
_.
=3
_.
_.
._..
_.
_.
_
._..
._..
_.
._..
_.
_.
H
H
_.
._..
_.=""
._
._..
_.
._
H
H
._
._
H
H
._
_
H
_.
_.
._..
._..
H
_.
._..
._..
_
_
.—
_.
_.
_
==
._..=
._..
t:
_.
_
.._..
H
._
_
H
._
._
..._..
_.
_.
_
_
_.
_.
=
_.
a:
_.
_.
._..
._..
_.
_
==
_.
_.
._..
_.
._
H
_.
E
a
._
_
H
z:
_
_.
E
t:
._

l

Peterson which appears in the March, 1943, issue
of the I/Voman’s Home Companion.
land neighborhood juvenile clean-up squads have
been organized by a children’s librarian, and news
broadcast listening parties with books and maps
are interesting young people to visit the Cleveland
Library.

At the Hayden Heights Library, St. Paul, Min-
nesota, according to the article, children stand in
line to hear a fairy tale or watch a puppet show.
The Minneapolis Public Library loans the chil-
dren toys. In reading clubs older girls are learn-
ing to tell stories to younger children, and boys are
repairing toys. Chicago has a library photography
club and other clubs for health, community help,
and salvage; a first aid course is one activity of the
library’s Victory Youth Reserve Club.

Let’s support our libraries! Among other im-
portant services they are 'helping to prevent juve-
nile delinquency.

H
:s
o
:s
a
C?
(D
<:
(P

NATURE'S QUIZ-QUEST ANSWERS
(Continued from page 35)

I. Dog. 2. Cat. 3. Rabbit. 4. Squirrel. 5. Sparrow.
6. Robin. 7. Skunk. 8. Deer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . .Tour
ICTORY GARDEN

By E. L. D. SEYNIOUR

IF you are planning to help in the war effort by having
a Victory Garden, you cannot afford to be Without

this practical booklet which tells you what you need to
make a garden, what and what not to grow, where and

how fruits fit in, and how to make the most of all you

grow.

Your Victory Garden also gives you a schedule for the
home vegetable gardener, tells you about the Victory
Garden program and your place in it, and ends with a
chapter, “Some Practical Advice and Where to Get
More.” The cost of this 64-page booklet is only 15 cents.

Order from the

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

Wilkes-Barre to the Rescue!

(Continued from page 17)

into the old tunes with lots of harmony. They are
the most popular. We try different types of songs
and use the folk songs along with the others.
About 100 attend class regularly.”

Suddenly a bell sounds, classes are dismissed
and everyone seems in a hurry to get somewhere.
I stop a boy, “Where are you going P”-—-“Gym—
dance—downstairs, come on,” he answers, strug-
gling to get ahead of the others. So we join the
moving throng and now we realize that there are
400 folks in the center—all ages and types. They
sound like a great avalanche let loose.

On the way down the stairs a large group of
young women join the others. “This is the class in
physical fitness, and that young woman in slacks
is the instructress,” says the guide. “They get all
sorts of activity and then she takes them all for
games on another night when the girls may have
the gymnasium. One night a week they all go to
the ‘Y’ for a swim. The ‘Y’ cooperates by ac-
cepting the high school physical examination and
charges only 10 cents per hour for a swim with

WILKES-BARRE TO THE RESCUE!

instructions.” Sixty girls are attending regularly
and there is a waiting list. The old cafeteria is
just too small for more.

The Commandos, about as many boys, are also
headed for the gymnasium. we learn that they too
are getting a physical fitness course—-—a little “judo,”
wrestling, boxing, some calisthenics and basketball
and volleyball. Different groups of boys use the
gymnasium on shifts from 7 :00 to 9:00 P. M.

Now the “juke box” has come to life and the
weekly dance is on. Nearly 200 couples move
around the large gymnasium—in-rhythm of one
type or another. A few boys hover around the
edge, wishing they could dance, but not for long.
One of the instructors corrals them in an adjoin-
ing room and for half an hour gives them dancing
instructions. Finally a few girls are summoned in
to dance with them and soon everyone is dancing.
Before the evening is over several couples quietly
join the dance in the gym.

At 10:00 the bell chimes the closing hour.
Promptly everyone crowds the check boy for their
wraps. For several minutes We watch the mass of
youth stream out of the building into the night.
All of them have several blocks and many as far as
two miles to go. Aside from the occasional street
light or a breaker throwing its eerie glow over the
culm banks there is little light. But they are
unafraid; they are happy over an evening well
spent and they are already looking forward to
coming again next week.

These centers are supported by the Welfare
Federation which supplies the leadership and the
school districts which provide facilities. There
are six such centers as described, four in the city
of VVilkes—Barre and two in outlying boroughs.
The Playground and Recreation Association hopes
to add at least four more another year.

Unity Through Music
(Continued from page 38)

the youngfolks paraded through the streets making all
hearts glad with their music. Never to be forgotten "were
the chimes ringing out from the Kendal Singing Tower
on Sunday morning, May 3rd, ushering in the National
Music V‘Veek. Our twin cities, with the water between.
each city nestled against the hillside, re-echoed with the
vibrating notes of Mallet’s ‘Lord’s Prayer’ and concluded
with ‘Abide with Me.’ It was breath-taking. As the
\Veek’s observance closed, again the bells!
“America—indeed, unity through music had been born

anew.”

. l

‘ EASTER HAS ITS OWN TRADITIONS 45

Easter Has Its Own Traditions.
(Continued from page 34)
they present them to the chosen boy among their
playmates. This courtesy is returned by the boy
on May Day, when he puts in front of her window
a May tree-——a little pine tree decorated with bows
of ribbon and colored eggs.

"Cock 0' the Eggs." The ancient game, Cock 0’
the Eggs, can still be great fun. Each player is
given a hard boiled egg. He challenges another
player to a contest which consists of striking their
eggs together. The player whose egg breaks for-
feits it to his opponent, who then becomes the
winner and is called “Cock 0’ Two Eggs.” In case
the loser is already cock of two or more eggs, he
forfeits his whole score to the winner. The two
players with the highest scores play the finals.

Easter Egg Relay. Place three pieces of paper IO
inches square, 5 feet apart, on the floor in front of
each team. (The first piece of paper should be from
7 to I 5 feet in front of the team.) Each square
should be of a different color, with an egg in a
matching color on each square. A circle drawn at
the end of the line represents a basket.

On the starting signal, Number One of each
team runs and picks up the eggs one at a time,
placing them in the basket. He then returns to the
starting line, touches Number Two, who runs to
the basket, picks up the eggs and puts them back
on the squares one by one, making sure that the
colors of the eggs match the squares. The relay
continues until all on each team have run. The
winning team is the one finishing first.

Other Easter Activities

' Another Easter game consists of fashioning egg-
shaped packages from bright colored tissue paper,
each containing candy, popcorn, or nuts. These
bags are tied onto a hoop, wound with green paper
and suspended from the center of the room. A
soft ball is provided which each child in turn
throws at the package. If he strikes one it is his;
if he misses, the child who secures the ball makes
the next throw.

That good luck comes to the wearer of new gar-
ments on Easter is stressed in an old rhyme which

warned :

“On Easter let your clothes be new,
Or else be sure you will it rue.”

The custom of wearing new clothes continues to
our day. Particularly do we stress the Easter
bonnet.

Because this is so, the Easter bonnet may be the

  

F *
DIAMOND
Has Gone-"To War

The Army. Navy and Air Corps
are using the material that used
to go into the famous Diamond
pitching horseshoe line. When
the war is won, it'll be back to
Business As Usual. '

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE C0.

46l0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

       
       
      

feature of a game. Players stand in a circle holding
each other’s wrists. In the circle is an old hat
decorated with Easter finery. Each player in the
circle tries to pull the person whose wrists he holds
onto the hat. The players stepping on the hat are
out of the game. The game continues until only
one player is left.

New Gadgets from an Old Felt Hat

(Continued from page 24)’
either with flossor yarn, Peasant designs or cross
stitch patterns are always attractive.

If you want less color or detail, cut patterns
from scraps of leather and applique them to the
felt with cloth cement. When there is to be much
wear and tear on the article, they should be stitched
to the felt with matching thread in a running or
buttonhole stitch. ‘

Bead designs also look well on felt and can be
combined with embroidery if you like. Or you
may use those little decorative buttons you never
knew what to do with. First lay out the buttons
or beads in a pattern on the felt and then tie the
design together with a few well placed embroidery

‘stitches.

46 BREAKING THE MONOTONY OF HOSPITAL ROUTINE

 

 

 

et Freedom Sing

By A. D. ZANZIG

A widely useful wartime guide for music
leaders which will answer the question,
“How can we go about developing a music
program in wartime?”

Practical answers are oiiered under the
headings: Leadership; Occasions for Sing-
ing; On “Drawing a Crowd”; Community
Planning and Organization; What Songs?; On
Program Making and Other Matters. A pro-
gram for an interdenominational hymn fes-

tival is presented.

In the final section Mr. Zanzig oifers a
classified list of songs for community singing
and gives their sources.

Price  Cents

National Recreation Association
_315 Fourth Avenue 0 New York City

g

 

Breaking the Monotony of

Hospital Routine
(Continued from_page 27)

Mobile Unit and ended up by playing about ten of

your games with the other fellows in the ward. They

sure helped the time pass for those in the hospital.’
“The men are eager for recreation, for friendship

and the companionship found in play. Requests from
patients, nurses, doctors, and from the Red Cross rec-

reation leaders were for return engagements.”
When ever the attention of recreation leaders is

directed consistently to watching the patient’s re-
actions in social activities rather than primarily to
the activities themselves, that motive is felt and
receives genuine constructive response. Illness ap—
pears to heighten one’s sensitivity. A. healthier
atmosphere is produced when several work as a
group in recreation. The gratitude which patients
feel for those who brighten the monotony of their
days by interesting games or entertainment is scat-
tered over several persons. This group approach,
repeated at regular intervals, gives the patients not
only an entertainment to look forward to, but
friends to welcome back, and visitors who bring
new acts, new games or songs, or perform the old

ones because they are so well liked. Regular events
of this sort are less upsetting to the patients and to
the hospital administration than the irregular spe-
cial events for which extra preparations have to
be made: ‘ .

Fine as entertainments may be, whether given
as special events or as regular parts of hospital
recreation, they remain infrequent and cannot take
the place of a daily recreation or play program
under skilled leadership. Nor do they 'aCComplish
the results that participation in a daily play pro-
gram can give when that program is truly play for
the participants and not a superimposed program
from authorities above them.

Where War Work Is Play!

(Continued from page 19)

on pack trips. A proof of the fact that no one ever
said, “I’ll never be able to look another raspberry
in the face !” is the way they disappeared like wild-
fire back at camp and no one needed any urging
when the call for pickers came! ‘

In connection with our ditch digging came trail
clearing, which hitherto had been a rather hit-and-
miss proposition—a contest between you, {the dip—
pers, and your horse. Usually, unless: he found an
especially tasty bite just where you 'wanted to
clip, your steed won the light! But la'st‘summer a
forest ranger came out to camp armed with all
sorts of clippers and axes and showed‘ us how to
clear trails so that young, growing trees would not
be destroyed, and a horse could still get thrbugh.

The object of clearing trails is twofbld. The
hrst and most important one is in connection with
possible fires. If there are a few well-cleared trails
to the tops of the mountains around us, a, tire
could be far more easily checked because it wOuld
be more accessible. The other object is'the’ further
enjoyment of the lovely aspen woods foif'rt'rail'rid-
ing. The latter has its purpose, too, as the more
the trails are utilized, the better cei’ldition they
will be in the event of a fire. ' ' '3

No week could be really complete without a
square dance. Tired as you may think'you are at
the end of the day, you have only ‘to hear “Pop
Wheeler” strike up on his drums,‘ while “Ma”
plays the “pianner” and Rex his' “geetar,” and
your toes begin to itch. You feel like the “Birdie
in the Cage” if you can’t get right out there and
“Hold Your Holts and Swing Like Thunder”!
With the cowboys in their bright rodeo shirts and
the girls in gay cotton dresses, all moving'rto the
insistent rhythm of the music, it reminds one of a

   
    

9 (by 

FDR [IS
TOMORROW-

‘k

,r

Prepare him 'l'otlay
7/2 AMERICAN WAY

Your Baseball and Softball teams of 1943 may soon become
combat teams at the front! That in a nutshell, summarizes
the importance of organized play. America’s strongest defense
is team work, both at home and at the front—and baseball and
softball develop those important qualities which men must
have to win—self reliance, coordination of mind and muscle,
aad'cooperation with their associates.

H. & B., in addition to items used directly by our armed forces
will continue to make Louisville Slugger Bats for both the
Army and Navy and Civilian use. Equip your teams with the
bats of the champions. . . . Good bats are important to the
success of your teams—they inspire confidence at the plate
and definitely contribute to successful hitting. It pays to play
with the best as you work‘for victory.

[D’UISVILLE
SLUGGEH BAT

FIRST lN BASEBALL and SOFTBALL

 
   

9

Send for free copies
for your teams of
"Famous Slugger

Year Book for I943"
--and the new "Of-
ficial Softball Rule

BOOL'LPIGGSO address
Dopt. R.

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

GulfOil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 GulfBuilding, Pittsburgh. Pa.

Please send me. without obligation a copy ofthe booklet. “Gulf
Sani-Soil-Setc-the modern proven agent or controlling dust.

Name ......................................  ......................  ........................................... ..
Title . ...................................................................  ................................. 
Address.........   . . . ..

-- I...o-------

48 TEEN TRO UBLE ‘

Junior Arts and Activities

for the elementary
teacher

and

ACTIVITIES ON PARADE
for the pupils
C
THE MOST COMPLETE

EDUCATIONAL PLAN
EVER PUBLISHED

TEACHER :

you owe it to
yourself and to
your pupils to
know how these
two monthly
publications

can help you

0
Send 25c for Sample Copies 10

JUNIOR ARTS AND ACTIVITIES

740 Bush Street. Chicago. 111.

 

crazy quilt. Since “calling” is the toughest job of
all, there are usually several men who are gifted at
this, and they take turns throughout the evening.
Each has his own way of doing it, and this makes
the dancing all the_more exciting because you can
never predict what directions he may give you at
the beginning or end of the square! The only
compensation for the sight of the “orchestra” pre-
paring for its thirty mile trip home is the fact that
there’s always another dance coming along soon!

This summer we’ll all “tighten our cinches” and
really get to work—haying, irrigating, horseshoe-
ing, and log-snaking, If everyone joins in this
work with enthusiasm, it doesn’t seem like work
but fun, and healthy fun at that!

————-——
row—H 9v oovnbanh-nn ~-—— _ _. _ '

atmosphere is produced when several work as a
group in recreation. The gratitude which patients
feel for those who brighten the monotony of their
days by interesting games or entertainment is scat-
tered over several persons. This group approach,
repeated at regular intervals, gives the patients not
only an entertainment to look forward to, but
friends to welcome back, and visitors who bring

new acts, new games or songs, or perform the old

study of existing conditions to discover the facts
and find the answers to such questions as these:

Have all the social, educational and recreational agen-
cies met together to consider the ,teen age problem?

Have the youngsters been given a share in any such
planning?

Has any effort been made to find out what activities
the young people would like to take part in?

Have they been given any opportunity to help organize
activities for themselves?

Have they been given any special training to make
them a part of the war effort in your community?

Has there been any increase in juvenile delinquency?

Which age group shows the greatest rise? Are there
any examples of illegitimate births, and sex delin-
quency in the community? How many high school
marriages?

How many junior high school and high school stu-
dents are working part-time? Full-time? Week ends?

How has it affected their school work?

How many have dropped out of school? What are the
truancy figures?

Have there been instances of vandalism on school or
community playgrounds and buildings? Of local dis-
turbances during the noon hour?

Has a study been made of all the recreation facilities
and programs in the community? If they are not ade-
quate, has a list been made of possible additional play
space in churches, lodges, Clubhouses, schools, vacant
stores and vacant lots?

Does the community know all the facilities available
for recreation? Has the recreation program been pub-
licized adequately?

Are Youngsters on the streets at night? Where do
they go? What commercial amusements and recrea-
tion are in the community?

Are there city ordinances governing the operation of
these places? Are these laws enforced?

\Vhich ones serve liquor? Can a teen age youngster
buy liquor anywhere in the community?

Training for Recreation Leadership
(Continued from page 31)

of a publication which will be of definite help to them if
they are working to increase the number and calibre of
the volunteer leaders in their community. This is the
booklet Training Volunteers for Recreation Service, pre-
pared for. the National Recreation Association by George
D. Butler. In it the experiences from many localities have
been recorded and general principles set forth.

The booklet discusses needs for volunteer leadership,
the preliminary steps to be taken in organizing for an
institute; the subject matter also contains suggestions for

the course, its organization, and typical methods employed.

A very practical value is the section presenting the

outlines of courses given in a number of communities.

Copies of the booklet are available at 50 cents each.

Exhibition drill at South
Common, Lowell, Mass.
Grounds treated with Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set.

 

 

SANI * SOIL  SET

anchors dust quickly and completely!

 
  
 
 

by Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is the prac- can or by sprinkling truck. and spreads quickly and

o l d uniformly.
"Ca answer to your “St-annoyance Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set prevents

f Droblems: the growth of grass on areas treated and reduces clean-
! ' ing and dusting inside nearby buildings to a minimmn.

Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
. ‘   sani'SOil'Set eliminates dust annoy“ tion abOut this modern, proven dust allayer.

nce completely immediately after application. No long
waiting periods are necessary before the ground is ready
for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished by the
1ction of the compound in adhering to and weighing
lown dust particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-
:esses valuable germicidal properties.

 

.ong lusting—Because of its extremely low volatility and
'nsolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-
:ive for long periods. One application per season or year
5 usually sufiicient.

GulfOil Corporation ' Gulf Refining Company
3800 GulfBuilding. Pittsburgh, Pa.

Please send me. without obligation. a copy of the b00k'i’8t, “Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern proven agent for controlling dust.

Name ............................................................................................................. ..

Title. ............................................................................................................ ..
Address.........  . 

I 'usily Applied—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy
In 1nd pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-sprinkling

50 RECREATION AFTER 1:00 A.M.

5W RECREATION (WP/5%”

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys are space saving . . . a complete
Bowling Alley that is operated by the players themselvesI no

pin boys required.

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys sell for a fraction of the cost
of regulation alleys. Superbly constructed to last a life-time.
Though TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys fill every need for com-
petition. relaxationI and exercise. they do not make the
physical demands on the players that regulation bowling does.

Two—Way Bowling Alleys now offer many hours of relaxation to our men

in the Air Corps, Army, Coast Guard, Marines and Navy from Guantanamo

Bay, Cuba, to Alaska—tram New York to California. (List of comps now
using the Two—Way Bowling Alleys gladly furnished upon request.)

 
     

I ~' '
I» .
. l '

ill:

-".‘
’5
’.

  

\L mire/mi Amy gamma/V41 MAM. ..

  

EQUIPMENT FURNISHED
Consists of the following:

One High—Grade, Hardwood
Alley with swinging ends.
23 feet overall.
Two sets of ten pins each (20!
Highest Grade Hardwood,
71/2" x 2%" belly thickness.
Two Hardwood Bowling Balls
3—9/16” ln diameter. "
Two Pit floor mats.
Two Pit base felts.
Two Heavy Swinging Cushions.
500 Score Sheets.
Portable: Packed in sections——
"E Z Set Up“ Construction.

DIMENSIONS

Length, 23 feet overall
Width, 32 inches overall
Height of alley above floor, 18 inches
Height of both ends from floor, 38 inches
Approximate shipping weight, 800 pounds

    
  
      
 
 

  

 
  
 

   

a {if ‘ '.
4- I" if... 'o‘ \ ’
3'2!  £51: , I
~ ' 31" i" . 

\ 1} It
.1. _ -

.- BOWLING THE NEW z-wmr Jc’

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Patent No. 2247769

Recreation After |:00 A. M.

( Continued from page 23)

ber issue of RECREATION that Cincinnati’s new
playground is not limited to day workers but that
it is also available for nighttime workers. Along
these lines, the Buffalo Parks Department has just
announced that the municipal swimming pools will
be open for second shifters this summer after they
finish work.

Of course, we all realize that although facilities
for nighttime recreation may be available, finding
staffs for them is an important factor. But we have
found the second shifters to be a most cooperative
group who are willing to entertain themselves once
they are provided with the proper facilities at con-
venient hours.

Another solution may be to call upon workers,
now on the second shift, who had previously been
employed in recreation. The vocational schools
have found this to be an excellent method and in
the trade schools of Buffalo the majority of the
teachers in the classes, from 1:30 .\. M. to 4:30
A. LL, are war production workers.

I I4 East 32nd Street. New York
Telephone LExington 2-8828

Since it is already spring, it is imperative that
plans be made now for a summer program of rec-
reation for night shift workers. Some suggestions
are softball by Hoodlight, swimming in the moon-
light, hay rides, outdoor boxing and wrestling
matches, moonlight horseback rides with a dawn
breakfast at some scenic spot, playground sports
under floodlight, such as pitching horseshoes, arch-
ery, and tennis. At this time of the night you can
glamorize the usual and add all the unusual!

Management and labor participation and cooper-
ation must be obtained wherever possible, inas—
much as this program fairly shouts “YES” to the
question: “Does it help win the war ?”

Recreation is one of the most complete answers
to morale and absenteeism problems on the second
shift, and a city—wide program enables employers
to point out these advantages when they recruit
labor for the unwanted and orphaned second 'shift.
Many people turn down a job on second shift
rather than give up their friends whom they would
ordinarily visit in the evening. Now it can be
pointed out to them that they can pick and choose

IN MEMORY OF ALICE LEE 51

In Memory of Alice Lee “

N THE PASSING of ’Alice, Lee on February 19,
I 1943, at Cambridge, Massachusetts, those of us
in recreation service have lost a much beloved and
highly esteemed friend and counsellor. In connec-
tion with my many years of field service in San
Diego it was always a high privilege to call on
Alice Lee and catch somewhat of her rare spirit,
ready wit, and alert mind.

During the earlier years Tam Deering as Execu-
tive of San Diego Community Service had the
counsel and energetic help of Alice Lee and in
these later years W. A. Kearns as Superintendent
of Recreation looked to her for counsel and aid on
many specific problems.

I remember so well one of the occasions when I
shared with Superintendent Kearns in a happy
meeting with Alice Lee at her home and we re-
marked as we left the house what a wonderful
privilege it was to have the inspiration of her re-
markable intellect and passion for rich and abund-
ant living. She was interested in virtually every
phase of leisure-time service and especially in the
field of the recreative arts.

Miss Lee expressed genuine appreciation of her
identity as an honorary member of the National
Recreation Association and frequently referred to
herself as rather a “lame” representative in view
of the fact that she was the cousin of Joseph Lee.
There was always a new glow in her face when she
spoke of Joseph Lee and his great contribution to
the cause of humanity.

GEORGE BitADEN

new friends from all the shift workers in their'

community and still be able to contact their old
friends on free days. This will help to alleviate
their misgivings about a shift they don’t want.

A complete recreation program covering each of
the live fields for each shift, at their most con-
venient relaxation hours, will have a great bearing
on making shift work attractive. The more diversi-
lied and unique the program, the greater drawing
power it will have to those outside industry as well
as to those actively engaged in war production
work.

In a community which has a two or three shift
problem if the municipal recreation committee can
sponsor such a project as I have outlined, the pro-
gram would pay for itself. I mention this because
it is extremely important that the workers finance

©WRW ATHLETIC

w"m EQUIPMENT

i": i; w ' rm: Runner Cars. “58?? 3% SI Sc: Arre‘n. 91'.
Branch in ll Wanker Ill Brings l

 

their own recreation. It relieves the feeling of
paternalism towards the “poor second shifters.”
They have the money to pay their own way and
they have the time. You must provide the facili-
ties at the time they want to play.

A Housing Project for the Birds

(Continued from page 32)

were different racks for each kind of birdhouse,
and each type was subdivided according to age
groups.

After all the classes and divisions had been
judged, our committee faced its real job. There

Buddy Boxes
and Other Service Crafts

In the March issue of RECREATION we promised
to tell you how to secure directions for some
interesting crafts for servicemen.

Through the courtesy of the Physical Fitness
and Recreation Program of the Minnesota 0$ce
of Civilian Defense, we are now able to offer you
the following bulletins:

(1) The Buddy Box. Directions for making a
pocket game kit and a number of miniature
game boards which {it into it. 10 cents.

(2) The Picture Pac. How to make an album
with scenes from home which fits into a
watch pocket. .5 cents.

(3) A Home Town Newspaper. Suggestions for
a “personalized clipping service” for the man
far away from home. 10 cents.

Available from the

NATIONAL RECREATION
A S S O C I A T I O N

315 FOURTH AVE, NEW YORK CITY

52 CANTEEN IN AN ART GALLERY

Em

IETUBY GARDENS—
HABVESTING and DRYING

By Marguerite Ickis

Anything having to do with Victory Gardens is
of universal interest these days.

Here is an attractively illustrated booklet which
suggests simple ways of drying and treating some
of our common fruits, vegetables, and herbs after
you have grown and harvested them.

To make the process recreational, there are sug-
gestions for making pomanders, sweet bags for
linen, condiment boxes, and other herb contain-
ers. And to add a touch of spice there are old
recipes and quotations from bygone times.

{if Price  Cents

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

 

were special ribbons for the grand champion, twice
won by girls; for the best construction———and this
actually included houses a self-respecting bird
would not use; and for the houses best planned for
use, ventilation, climbing ladder, size of hole, and
use of perch, drainage and cleaning facilities. Those
with the best finish had a class of their own. Nor
did we forget the ultra-special awards for houses
built out of scrap materials.

But woe unto the lad who brought in a com-
mercially built house with its paint changed a bit!
Nor were the judges fooled by the youngster who

brought in a finely weathered house with its year-
old nest still inside.

After the show had closed, an uptown store put
the best houses in its window while each school
proudly displayed its own ribbon winners in the
halls. Nearly always at least half the displayers

received one award. A top flight house would
usually receive from two to five ribbons.

The ribbons awarded were printed on a hand-
operated six—inch press which provided up to 3,000
awards in our recreation program each year, to
the exclusion of all other prizes.

Canteen in an Art Gallery
(Continued from page 5)

There are countless tales to tell of the men. One
young soldier with a very impish smile told us
about the tricks that he had been up to. We
laughed and cautioned him about his behavior.
Some weeks later he showed up and greeted us
with a big smile. He spread his elbows on the I
milk bar, grinned, and finally couldn’t wait any
longer, He pointed to his new stripes and his only
comment was, “You told me to behave.”

Sometimes we have a group of English or
Australian boys. Mrs. Eaton is particularly eager
to see the Australians because she feels that she is
doing for them what someone is doing for her
boys. These boys enjoy the Canteen because they
can have “a spot of tea” which they brew them-
selves. They take such pleasure in putting just so
much tea in the pot, and so much boiling water.
The tea looks a little too potent for us, but they say
it is just right.

In the course of an evening questions are apt to
vary from “Where can I go skeet shooting?” to
“Where can I rent a bicycle ?” As for the requests,
they are for needle and thread, adhesive tape, book-
lets about Providence, cameras, nickels, shoe polish,
pressing, etc. The men can keep us busy finding
information. They come from all parts of the
States, and they have a lot to say about this sec—
tion in comparison with their home town. The
maps come in for a lot of use during friendly
arguments.

0n the Phone

0 The public telephone is very busy at all hours.
Sometimes in an evening there will be three or
four men waiting {or calls, and when the phone
rings they all rush for the booth; so far there have
been no casualties. The English boys have difficulty
in making the local operator understand, their
version of the number being Manning 55 ow 2
(5502). They look so puzzled when they stick
their heads out the door and ask, “What is the
number?'The operator doesn’t understand l”

The men who come into the Gallery Canteen
from the Army and Navy make us proud of the
services. Anything that can be done for them is
not too much. Letters from those who have been
shipped out come back to us with their thanks. As
one man put it—“We appreciate the very personal ,
hospitality.”

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 53

Lyle F. Watts
New Forest Service Chiet

 

YLE F. \NATTS, former regional forester at Port-

land, Oregon, has been appointed Chief of the

United States Forest Service to fill the vacancy
caused by the death of F. A. Silcox.

Mr. Watts received the Bachelor of Scierice in
Forestry degree at Iowa State College in 1913. He
became associated with the Forest Service in 1913
and has had a long experience in various parts of
the Service.

Good. Neighbor Scouts in the
Canal Zone
(Continued from page 25)

When the house had been thoroughly inspected,
all the girls drew up into a good night circle on
the lawn. Very formally the Guides presented a
tray of playing cards for the Scouts to give to the
men in service through the Red Cross. Singing of
Taps brought to a close the day which had helped
to create a new understanding and strengthen

friendships between the girls of two friendly
American nations.

   

Magazinesiiand Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, December 1942

Fitting Pool Operations to War Center Needs, by
H. R. Wiener

Pool Design “Down Under,” by Bill Havemeyer

Pre-Induction Swimming, by Samuel W. Ingram
They Don’t Need Speed, by Captain T. W. Shefiielcl

Camping Magazine, January 1943
Emergency Harvest Camps, Lee S. Williams

Camping Magazine, March 1943
A C00perative Victory Garden for Short Term
Camps, by Monte Melamed

Child Study, Winter 1942-43

Do They Still Teach School? by Ruth Gillette Hardy,
Emotional Problems of the Adolescent and Juvenile;
Delinquency, by Caroline B. Zachry 3

Journal of Health and Physical Education, January 1943

A National Sports Program (Mexico), by Lamberto
Alvarez Gayou ' -

Recreation: A Challenge in Human Engineering, by
_Shailer Upton Lawton
The Lion, January 1943
Youth Centers, by Ernest A. Stewart

National Municipal Review, February 1943
The City of the Future, by Alvin H. Hansen
Education for the Postwar World, by R. J. Colbert

“Make No Small Plans,” by Charles E. Merria
(Postwar Planning) -

Rochester Plans for Peace, by Harold W. Sanford

National Parent-Teacher, January 1943
Time Out for Recreation

The Nation's Schools, January 1943

Juvenile Crime Wave, by Lowell J. Carr
Postwar Design (School Buildings)

Survey Graphic, February 1943

Thoughts at Vineland, by Dorothy Canheld. (A
famous writer visits a New Jersey training school
for the mentally deficient)

Survey Midmonthly, January 1943

Dividends from a Conference, by H. Ida Curry and
Betty Eckhardt May. (Summary of the two and a
half year follow-up program of the White House
Conference on Children in a Democracy)

PAMPH LETS .

History of Sports, compiled by Municipal Athletic Office
of the Department of Municipal Recreation

Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Public Schools

htovies to Help Win the War. A‘ catalogue of 16 mm.
silent and sound motion pictures combined with the
1943 Blue List of selected education and entertainment
films

Brandon Films Incorporated, New York City

National Unity Through Intercultural Education. Educa-

tion and national defense series, Pamphlet No. 10, U. S.
Office of Education

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Price 15 cents

54 IT’S BEING DONE IN NATURE RECREATION

Did you know that

APRIL 14th is PAN -AMERICAN AY

It's time to start planning NOW for Pan-American Day. with its good neighbor parties, pageants, and
programs._ To help you meet this need we have available these practical. up-to-the—minute publications:

Our Neighbors to the South! (MP. 310) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $.15

A bibliography of references including dances, music. plays, pageants, fiestas. costumes. games, party

plans, and other sources.

Pan-American Carnival (MP. 312) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

South American customs and forms of recreation which may readily be adapted for club and school

programs, playgrounds, and recreation centers.

Fiesta—The South American Way . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

Complete party plan including suggestions for stunts, decorations, invitations, refreshments, and enter-

tainment.

Singing America. a collection of 120 folk songs from the Americas including 14 songs
from 9 Central and South American countries:

. . .Vocal Edition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . .Accompaniment Book . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .25
. . . . . .  1.50

Recordings of Latin American Songs and Dances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30

Annotated selected list of popular and folk music, prepared under supervision of the Music Division,
Pan American Union. Descriptive notes by Gustavo Duran.

NATIONAL RECREATION .ASSOCIATION

Fun Without Money

(Continued from page 30)

Sardines can be played all over a darkened home.
One hides. The others hunt for him; but whoever
finds him must join the hider in his hiding place,
whether it’s under Mother’s bed or in the back
seat of the lonely car in the garage. At last all but
one, the loser, are jammed in the hiding place like
so many sardines.

There! That ought to give you a start! But
after a while you may hunger for more. Then
look up books in the public library under “games,”
“pastimes,” “sports,” and “parties.” You’ll find
hundreds of things to do together!

a If you want to make permanent additions to your
own library, the National Recreation Association,
315 Fourth Avenue, New York, has, such booklets
as these:

“Home Play in Wartime,’ 19 pages. (Send 10
cents for postage and wrapping.)

“Games for Quiet Hours and Small Spaces.” 59
pages. (20 cents postpaid.) '

“Games for Boys and Men,” 112 pages. (50
cents postpaid.)

3

3l5 FOURTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

(Continued from page 39)

Mineral Club of Eastern High School, Detroit,
has set up an exhibit that pertains to national de-
fense, The club is also working on conservation
projects.

“Mountains, The Friendly,” A Tour Through
the Green, White, and Adirondack- Mountains,
edited by Roderick Peattie, geographer, Ohio
State University. Vanguard Press, 424 Madison
Avenue, New York.

Nature Club. “The Fact-finders,” a club of
Troop 293, Boy Scouts, Philadelphia, presents
programs to the Parents Association and has
lectures by visiting scientists!

Nature-Grams in Africa. A recent communi-
cation shows that nature—grams are read in South
Africa. We have often wondered if they caused a
ripple in some nearer places.

Nature Trail, Gardiner, Massachusetts. Estab-
lished by the High School Nature Science Club in
cooperation with municipal tree warden. 'Forty-
seven acres of city, land are available to the club.

   

Free Men—The Drama of Democracy

l Educational Policies Commission, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C. Single copies, free; addi-
tional copies, 10 cents each.

REE MEN is a musical dramatic presentation based
on the report of the Educational Policies Commission,

“The Education of Free Men in American Democracy.”

It was prepared by the Music Educators National Con-

ference, and the first production was given by the public

schools of Milwaukee at the biennial convention of the

Music Educators National Conference in April, 1942.

The cast for the pageant may be as large or small as

desired, and there are roles for elementary and high

school students and adults. Any group producing the
pageant has permission to make any adaptations it deems

wise.

Concerning Juvenile Delinquency

By Henry W. Thurston. Columbia University Press,
New York. $2.75.
HERE IS A BOOK which considers juvenile delinquency
from an historical point of view and which shows
how since 1840 the United States has been increasingly
aware of the problem of juvenile delinquency and has
gradually evolved a machinery for preventing and treat-
ing it. Mr. Thurston does not, however, limit his dis-
cussion to historical deve10pments. He discusses delin-
quencies and their causes, their treatment by courts and
in the community. The final chapter, prepared by Leonard
W. Mayo, presents “The Gist of Juvenile Delinquency as
a Community Problem.”

Hymn Dramatizations

By Nellie E. Marsh and W. A. Poovey. The Standard
Publishing Company, Eighth and Cutter Streets, Cin—
cinnati, Ohio. $1.50 cloth; $.90 paper.

HE STATEMENT that great hymns of the church may be
Tgiven new and deeper meaning through interpretive
dramatization has a special application to dramas depict—
ing the stories of how the‘ hymns came to be written.
This book presents a number Of such dramatizations with
settings and lines simple enough for amateur performers

but still effective and impressive.

Social Work Year Book I943

Russell H. Kurtz, Editor. Russell Sage Foundation, New
York. $3.25.
THIS IS THE SEVENTH EDITION of the Year Book which
undertakes to report the current status of organized
activities in social work and related fields. Part One,
which is a record of organized activities, consists of
seventy-eight articles written by authorities on the sub-
jects under discussion. Part Two consists Of four direc-
tories of agencies (national and state, both govern-

New Publications in the Leisure. Time Field

mental and voluntary) whose programs are integral with
or related to the subject matter of Part One.

The Social Work Year Book is an indispensable volume
for every social worker’s library.

Sing It and Do H"

By Grace _Rogers Jackson and Jeannette Pruyn Reed. The
UniverSity of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque. $1.50.

ITTLE HAS BEEN DONE in the field Of education, Miss
Reed points out in her introduction, to combine func-
tional body movement based on scientific study, with
music and rhythm designed and written specifically for
this purpose. It is accordingly the object of this book to
unite art and science in both music and body movement.
The verse of each little song contains the direction for the
exercise; thus the child is giving himself the command
and must then follow his own command. Miss Reed
points out that this makes for concentration and coor-
dination.

|00 Puzzles. How to Make and

How to Solve Them

By Anthony S. F ilipiak. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.00.

UZZLES ARE ALWAYS FASCINATING because they are
P challenging to the individual’s ingenuity, skill and
intelligence. The materials for the construction of the
puzzles in this book are not expensive, and you will find
it fun to make as well as solve the puzzles.

Physical Conditioning

By George T. Stafford and Ray 0. Duncan. Barnes Dol-

lar Sports Library. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $1.00.

EXERCISES FOR SPORTS and healthful living are described
in this book, designed primarily for use by coaches in
the guidance of the potential athlete. The exercises rec-
ommended are used by many outstanding coaches. The book
also oners guidance to the non-athlete and to all who
want to keep themselves in better condition for their daily
tasks.

25 Non-Royalty One-Act Plays
‘ for All-Girl Cas’rs

Compiled by Betty Smith. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $2.50. '

HE TWENTY-FIVE PLAYS in this book represent every
__ type of drama—comedy, farce, satire, romantic drama,
holiday plays, biographical plays, social drama, and
tragedy. Every play has been successfully tested on the
stage, and many have won prizes. The plays, which may
be produced at low cost, have been lbrought together to
meet the increasing requests from school and community
groups for plays with all-girl casts.

55

56 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Twenty-five Non-Royalty Plays for Children.

Compiled by M: Jagendorf. Greeniberg: Publisher,
New York. $2.50.

The plays offered in this collection are good examples
of the variety possible in children’s drama, ranging as
they do from modern, human comedies to medieval deeds
and fairyland dreams. Among the playwrights are some
of the best known in the field of children’s drama. Ac-
companying each play is a preface telling of the scenery,
prOperty, costumes, and lighting necessary for the play.

Curriculum Problems in Health and
Physical Education.

By Vaughn S. Blanchard. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $1.50.

Drawing on years of experience in public school work,
the author presents the fundamental problems of curricu-
lum construction and shows how these problems can be
met. Thought is also given to future trends in health and
physical curricula.

U. 8. Government Publications and the
War—A Selected List.

By Carl H. Melinat. American Library Association,
Chicago. $.25.

The American Library Association is performing a
useful service in publishing annotated classified lists of
selected U. S. government publications on the subject of
the war. This list, Part Two of the series, has been
selected from publications issued within the last two years.

Lead a Song!

By Harry Robert Wilson. Hall and McCreary Com-
pany, Chicago. $1.50.

“Anyone who believes in the value of informal group
singing, usually called community singing, will want to
know how to do it,” says the author in his preface. The
“how,” the “why,” and the “what” are delightfully and
clearly set forth in this book, and specific examples are
presented to help the leader. The book comes as a par-
ticularly timely aid to those who would utilize the values
of music as a morale builder in wartime.

16 Rhythms and Story Plays.
For Kindergarten and Primary Grades.

By Howard Stein. O-btainable from the author at
743 East Lexington Boulevard, Milwaukee, Wiscon-
sin. .80.

Mr. Stein is a musician who understands the type of
music which catches the moods of little children and pro-
vides an appropriate accompaniment to their natural ac-
tivities and dramatic ideas. Through the rhythms he pre-
sents in this book children will find the help they need in
expressing themselves creatively in bodily action.

ln-Service Growth of School Personnel.

The National Elementary Principal. Department Of
Elementary School Principals, National Education
Association, 1201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest, Wash—
ington, D. C. $2.00 to non-members.

The Twenty-First Yearbook issued by the Department
of Elementary School Principals is a handbook for teach-
ers who recognize their own need for self-improvement
and for all who are charged with the responsibility of
staff leadership. The book is particularly timely. “Seldom
have we been so conscious of our personal and professional
limitations, of our need for growth,” says Robert H.
Edgar, President of the Department of Elementary
School Principals, “as in recent months when many new
duties and responsibilities have had to be assumed.” The
importance of community contacts is urged, and emphasis
is laid on the development of leisure-time interests for
the individual teachers, as well as further study. A list
of members completes the volume.

Social Defenses Against Crime. 1942 Yearbook,
National Probation Association.

Edited by Marjorie Bell. National Probation Asso-
ClathI‘l, 1790 Broadway, New York. Paper, $1.25;
cloth, $1.75. ‘

The latest Yearbook of the National Probation Associa-
tion deals with the all-important subject of the treatment
and prevention of delinquency and crime. It presents the
papers given by a number of outstanding authorities at
the thirty-sixth annual conference of the Association held
in New Orleans in May, 1942. The material is classified
under such headings as “Crime and the Community”;
“Delinquency in Wartime”; “Scope and Place of the
Juvenile Court”; “Services for the Unadjusted Child”;
“Administration of Adult Services”; “Staff Training”;
and “Legal Digest.” Reports Of the work of the National
Probation Association are included.

The American School and University 1942.

American School Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York. $2.50.

The fourteenth annual addition of this yearbook is
devoted to the design, construction, equipment, utilization,
and maintenance of educational buildings and grounds.
In addition to this material, there are lists of college,
university, normal school and junior college presidents,
heads of private schools, superintendents of schools in
places of 5,000 population and over, and superintendents
of Catholic parochial schools.

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRA'UCI—IER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS Buss, \Vashington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTII, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

\VALTER A. MAY, Pittsburgh, Pa.

CARI. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MR5. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGNUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WADSWORTII, Washington, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WAnnURc, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANsz WOODWAAD, Washington, D. C.

Spring-"Easter—May Day

If you’re in need of program material for Spring, Easter, and May Day (and who isn’t?)
let‘us solve your problems with these bulletin helps which were made to order for you:

Easter and Spring

An April Shower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ .10
(Com lete plan for a party in April, from preparty games to refreshments. Reprint from RECREATION,
Marc 1941)

Easter Crafts and Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MP 299) .15

(Includes directions for making a number of favors, greeting cards and other craft projects. Also
rules for a number of Easter party games)

Easter Egg Hunts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MB 694) .05
(Suggestions and hints for egg hunts, adaptable for large and small gatherings)

An Easter Eggsibit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MB 861) .05
(A complete party plan)

“Peep Show” Easter Eggs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MB 1164)- .05
(Plaster craft for favors or decorations)

Program Suggestions for Easter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MP 244-) .05
(A bibliography listing plays, pageants, pantomimes, and services of worship)

Stories of the Easter Carols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MP 120) .10

' (Also includes plans for caroling groups)
May Day

Heigh-Ho for a Merry Spring, by Augustus Zanzig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
(Suggestions for a simple festival. Reprint from RECREAIION, April 1935)

May Day Echoes, by Marion Holbrook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MP 105) .15

(A pageant-play for the grades and junior high school. Roman Floralea, Old English, and modern
May Day episodes)

May Pole Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MB 491) .05
(Directions for this traditional ceremony)

Pageants and Festivals Suitable for May Day Celebration . . . . . . (MB 85) Free
(A bibliography) - ~

Play Days . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MB 796) .05
(Organization, program, and procedure)

Traditions for May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MB 1179) .05
(Old English traditions adaptable to festivals)

. Troubadours of Provence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MP 104) .10

(A May Day fragment for high school or college use based on old Provencal custom of holding a
tournament of song each‘ May)

Youth Day Out of Doors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (MP 199) .05

(Suitable activities)

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York City

