“ NE of the threads which have been running

through democracy since the middle of the
18th century has been the thread of liberty. The

ultimate achievement of liberty will be a long'
struggle and we must be prepared to understand
that people will want regimentation for a consider-
able period after the war.

“Another thread which has been running through
democracy is a belief in the dignity of each man.
There have always been two approaches to life.
One approach has held that progress comes only
by planned social order, and the other says that
progress comes only through the development of
each individual. Democracy has been built by those
who have had faith in the deveIOpment of each
individual. After the war we must pick up our
anxieties and go ahead. There will be a terrific
letdown when man realizes that he is again up
against the problem of how to live with other men

and with himself.”

-—Dr. James S. Plant, Director,
Essex County J uvenile Clinic.

Sports Return to l900

cc 0U and I too will be back in the pre-automobile

age when expensive and luxurious athletic clubs,
golf clubs, country clubs were unknown, when sports
were simple, cheap, and easily learned. From now until
the end of the war the average citizen is going to find it
hard to get away from home. When he does, he will go
as his father and mother did, on a bicycle. National
parks will be deserted this summer. Beaches and resorts
will shut down. We shall be obliged to find our recrea-
tion in our own backyard. Fortunately there are a num-
ber of games that can be played by families in a small
space. They can be set up in an area of hfty by hfty—
an infinitesimal part of an acre. These games don’t cost
much; the equipment is cheap. It may be necessary for
you to substitute a rope ring for a rubber ring in deck
tennis, but it will be possible to purchase all these games
this summer. They are fun to play, easily learned, suit-
able for the whole family. Already Sporting-goods stores
are finding them increasingly popular. They include,
among others, archery, croquet, darts, deck tennis, horse-
shoes, lawn bowls, shuflleboard, softball and volleyball.

“Of course there is nothing unpatriotic about playing
games. On the contrary, so long as it doesn’t hold up
the war effort we have an obligation to get outdoors in
our leisure time.”

John R. Tunis in Harper’s Magazine, May 1943.

Used by permission.

Rooted ingthe Community

OST OF THE BEST of the educational practice of 1943 was inherent in the
M thinking of the 1906 leaders of the National Recreation Association. The
thinking of Joseph Lee, Luther Halsey Gulick, Henry S. Curtis, Jane Addams,
Jacob Riis, George E. Johnson, Clark W. Hetherington centered about the child
himself, the youth and his interests. Many of these earlier leaders were fifty years
in advance of their times. They thought in terms of the whole child, all his inter-
ests, music, arts, crafts, drama, nature, games. They were interested in adults,
in families. Many of these leaders believed in the family as the important unit.

These early leaders did not talk about child education, adult education.
They thought more in terms of continuous growth through play, through per—
manently satisfying activity from early childhood throughout life. In the days
nearly forty years ago the word used was play. Now its place is taken by
recreation.

Always there was recognition that religion, labor, health, education were
also important divisions of life. Dr. Charles W. Eliot, then President of Harvard,
and Dr. Henry S. Curtis and Ernst Hermann and others emphasized that the spirit

of play must as far as practicable spill over and influence the hours of labor.
l'

There was no thought in the minds of the pioneers that play and recreation
under either privately contributed funds or local government funds would be
different or that either one or the other would be superior in quality. Very rapidly
much of the work did come to have local government support,—since recreation
opportunity was needed for everyone and all might well share in the support.

Always—now as nearly forty years ago—the play and recreation leaders
thought of recreation as so intimately connected with the daily life of people that
they felt it should be worked out locality by locality by the people themselves and
left completely decentralized rather than that there should be even a minor degree
of imposition and control from without. True, methods of imposing recreation
systems, of buying communities and neighborhoods to take up recreation might
have given twice as rapid a development. However, a regimented, federally built
up local recreation would have been to the leaders of the recreation movement a
violation of the very nature of play and recreation. America is strong as its local
units are strong and self-contained in all that can well be left to the localities.

The effort has been to build the spirit of play among the people rather than
to multiply grounds and buildings—important as these are. Yet the national

365

366

leaders in the recreation movement need not be apologetic over the development
of land, buildings and facilities; for now the value of these throughout the coun—
try is about six billion dollars.

A friend, who is a distinguished worker for good government and much in~
terested in the science of government, has suggested that recreation would be a
good field for experiment in “fairly complete federalization.”

Is it not rather the last field for such an experiment? Recreation is, perhaps,
next to religion in its intimate connection with the life of the people. Very little
is of such importance to us as that we have complete freedom in the use of our
“free” time and that such influences as are brought to bear upon us in it are of our
own immediate choosing. Better a slow development of recreation than a rapid
one that is outside of us as a people, that does not come from us, that we do not
really share in. Recreation is one thing that we should all have a part in work—
ing out for ourselves, community by community.

Music, drama, art, sport express the nature of a people. Each person thinks
he knows what he wants to do with his free time, likes to feel he is choosing with-
out too much guidance just what he will do in his vacation, week-end, or evening
hours. Because the local municipal recreation board members are daily in touch
with their constituents, who are their neighbors, they are in better position to
judge what their neighbors want. The home, block, neighborhood, city ways of
cooperating inrecreation without too much machinery are of first importance.
We all want in recreation to be as self—creating, self-starting as we can.

Of course no one can be sure just what is meant by “fairly complete fed~
eralization,” but I am certain that of the great interests of men I would place rec—
reation as the next to the last held to be centralized. If much greater federaliza-
tion is to take place in the days to come, may we not hope it will come hrst in the
fields of roads, asylums for the mentally afflicted, hospitals, disease control.

I Very complete decentralization in recreation will help us to keep what is
most characteristic of us as a people. Recreation should always remain rooted in
the community.

 

OCTOBER I943

 

The Square Dance Carries On

 

Photo by Dem anti

Swing 'em High, Swing 'em Low
By RUTH A. JEHLE

live as I do on the border line between Mary-

land and the District of Columbia had fre—
quently asked me where they could find an old-
fashioned rural square dance in this vicinity, A
search seemed most likely to furnish the answer,
so a hunt was begun for clues- that could be fol-
lowed with limited finances and transportation
facilities even though this was in bountiful 1941.

NEIGHBORING square dance enthusiasts who

Eastern Shorel Maryland

The first important discovery was the Kelley
Boys’ Orchestra in Salisbury, the largest city on
rural Eastern Shore, Maryland. Homer Kelley,
a burly farmer with that slight southern drawl so
familiar on the east side of the Chesapeake Bay,
was the leader and figure caller. His orchestra
played for public and private dances in Salisbury,
Cambridge, Snow Hill, Public Landing, and
neighboring communities, and he said we would
be cordially welcome at the next dance.

Courtesy Division of Recreation, Richmond, Va.

The following Friday night found us at the
Paddle Club in Public Landing, a tiny resort
town on the Chincoteague Bay. The crowd which
gathered there consisted of summer resorters,
farmers and their wives, high school jitterbugs,
and citified couples ranging in age from sixteen to
sixty. The evening’s program was evenly dis-
tributed between ballroom dancing, complete with
Paul Jones mixers, and square dancing in sets of
four couples each. The latter included such dances
as Forward Six; Dance Croquette—first lady out
to the right and dance and swing whomever she
pleases, second lady, etc., then each gent; Ladies
t0 the Right—and swing until all the gents have
been swung, then gents to the right; Swing Down
to Pollitt—first lady turn the second gent with the
right hand around, and back to her partner with
the left hand around, on to the next gent, etc., the
other ladies the same, then each gent.

A fast two-step executed in jitterbug style was
used continually throughout the dancing, even
during the swing. A characteristic figure which
occurred in every dance was Balance All. This
meant for all four couples to swing and at the
same time move around the square until their
original positions were reached. The brief, un-

367

368 THE SQUARE DANCE CARRIES ON

rhymed calls were drawled in a
sing-song fashion to the rather
slowly timed music.

Southern Maryland

The next plausible clue
brought about a trip into south-
ern Maryland in which the first
stop was Cedarville Forest near Waldorf. The
forest ranger, a spry, wizened old man of about
eighty, explained the dancing of Howard County
fifty years ago with evident enjoyment.

“Yes sir, I was quite a dancer in those days,”
he reiterated. “We swung ’em at arm’s length.
VVouldn’t dare do anything else l”

He went on to demonstrate the swing and
promenade in which the couple merely held hands.
He supplied a formidable list of local farmers who
were alleged sources of information regarding the
square dancing of this vicinity. When they were
tracked down, however, their replies were more or

less the same:
“Sure, I used to call off figures for the old

dances, but it’s been so long I’ve plum forgot all

of ’em. . . . Must ha’ been ’bout twenty years
ago. . . . Nobody does them dances much any-
more.”

But Not in Words

Dick Bullock, owner of the general store and
gas station which was the only visible landmark by
which a visitor would know that he had arrived in
Loveville, was the first person to confess to any
knowledge of present day square dancing. He was
not able to put it into words, however.

“Come out to my store any Saturday night,” he
invited. “I make out with the fiddlin’ and figure
calling and we have a great old time.”

During this tour of southern Maryland, frequent
allusions to the stupendous barn dance to be held
at the Tobacco Festival in La Plata were made by
the residents. It sounded intriguing! Perhaps my
Washington friends could get a taste of rural
Maryland square dancing. On the appointed Sat-
urday night fourteen of us piled into cars (it was
still before gas rationing) and
drove the sixty odd miles to La
Plata. We entered the huge
barn and found in progress a
dance that bore all the ear-
marks of a modern ballroom
affair. With ranks increased to
a score or more, we called

"Revival of the Square Dance has in-
stilled in everyone a new community
spirit. In its early conceptionl square
dancing was a get-together enter-
tainment. Today. in its revival. it
family gathering.
There are few age limits in partici-
pation." -— Chicago Park District.

approximates a

"Square dancing. in itself an Ameri-
can institution, is. in fact. an offspring
of a conglomeration of the folk
dances of European nations. lts origin
can be traced directly to the influ-
ence of those European peoples who
came to America in the early colon-

ial days."—Cbicago Park District.

loudly for square sets, but the
orchestra continued to play
popular swing music and no
figure caller could be found.
The only visible result was the
eventual entrance of a force of
ten blue ‘coated policemen who
stalked formidably through the
stag line. Washington went home defeated.

Prince George's County

Meanwhile a native of Prince George’s County
offered himself as chauffeur and guide on an ex—
ploration venture nearer home. We spent many
days traveling over rough country roads with him
and followingintricate “whoop and holler” direc-
tions that too often ended in the middle of the
woods. Whenever a farm was reached and the
farmer sought out in his distant grain field, his
reply to insistent questioning was often like this:

“No—00, I don’t know nothin’ about fiddlin’ or
figure callin’. . . . We——ll, I reckon I used ter
do it a little bit. . . . You want to write it down?
I don’t know nothin’!”

One particularly wild journey in the pouring
rain ended in the backyard of a Mr. Boswell who
lived a good “crow’s fiy” from Cheltenham. He
claimed to be a fiddler for private dances held “in
the fall 0’ the year ’round harvestin’ time,” and
promised us an invitation to one of these affairs.

At Bickford’s General Store in Berwyn we
visited a bewhiskered figure caller who answered
to the name of Mr. Gates. He remarked between
tobacco “chaws” that he would be glad to call off
the old figures if he only had a “crowd of folks.”
Since the only “folks” present besides myself and
friend were the storekeeper and his disheveled cat,
Mr. Gates did not feel it worth while to display

his talents. "

 

Western Maryland

Through Evelyn Davis and her square dance
course at the University of Maryland 3 lead frdm
the western Maryland mountains was discovered

in the person of Mr. Shockley, principal of the
Deer Park School near Oak-

land. He had brought an active
interest in square dancing from
his native Eastern Shore. With
Mr. Shockley and his square
dance group of former stu-
dents, resorters, and local resi-
dents, I shared the fun of piling

RECREATION

I ' THE SQUARE DANCE CARRIES ON 369

into his “Hizzie” and going to a rural square dance.
“The Lakes” at Altamount was the one we chose.

As we climbed the rickety steps up to the nar-
row porch we had to push our way through
dancers who overflowed the hall. Mothers with
babies, elderly men and children, and the young
set lined the benches around the wall and crowded
into booths at one side. The orchestra struck up
a lively tune. The caller grabbed a partner and
shouted for the dancers to take‘their places in one
large circle in
which half the
couples were to be
active and would
move around the
circle to dance
with the inactive
couples, southern

style.
The Holtsnider

brothers, Al and
Bill, were part of
Mr. Shockley’s
group and two of
the best callers in
the vicinity. They
told us that danc-
ing was done in
squares at private
parties but that
due to lack of
space the circle
was used at pub—
lic dances. The
calling was of a
rapid-fire type,
rhymed, run to-
gether, and filled
-with picturesque
lingo.

Swing your honey ’ronnd and ’ronnd, turn
your corner upside down. Change away and
what you say. . . .

The tempo was fast and the swings long with
the buzz step often in evidence. The same figure
was called all around the circle and was finished
off by each couple with Meet ’em on the right
hand, meet ’e-m on the left, roll that reel-boat right
and left. Southerners would call it a Georgia
rang tang.

Other figures were Duck for the Oyster; Around
That Couple and Take a Peep; Lady ’round the
Lady; and Step right back and watch her smile,

OCTOBER 1943

step right up and swing her awhile, step right back
and watch her grin, step right up and swing her
again. In the latter figure the gentleman while
swinging his partner released her to arm’s length
and pulled her back to him so that with the force
of the swing she spun out and in.

A Church Dance

An interesting description of a square dance at
Avilton in western Maryland was received from

 

The D. C. Do-Si-Do-ers get into the swing of things with
their version of the Grapevine Twist—southern style

Mr. Earl Boyer who was a teacher at the State
Teachers College in Frostburg at the time. Part
of it is quoted here:

“. . . We drove over the mountain and went
back over a dirt road in the general direction of
New Germany. . . . We arrived at the Catholic
Parish House near Avilton. The priest himself
took admissions at the door while the ladies of the
Parish served soft drinks and hamburgers in a
rough sort of lean-to at the rear of the hall. I

370 THE SQUARE DANCE CARRIES ON

was nearly bowled over at my first
glimpse of the dancing, for the
fioor was packed with couples
whirling and stamping at a furious
rate. It was wintertime so many
of the fellows wore caps but had
become sufficiently warmed up to shed their coats
and so were dancing in vests with shirt sleeves
held up by sleeve elastics. . . . At the far end of
the hall there was an iron stove which was almost
red hot and it made me shudder to see how close
the whirling couples came to it.

“Although I had been well coached, I was afraid
to try the next dance but my instructor put me
into a set where everyone else knew what to do.
I found it a most exhilerating experience, After
an evening at Avilton I discovered these oddities
in etiquette: Girls sit all around the walls of the
halls, the boys go to the ones whom they wish to
have for partners in the next set. An invitation to
the dance is, ‘Are ya dancin’ ?’ If the girl indicates
'that she is willing, the boy points out the place
where his set will be and goes away to round up
the other three boys. The four boys stand at the
selected spot, holding the space and smoke. Now
the caller bellows something which no one under-
stands well enough to repeat but the general idea
is to get ready for the next dance. The orchestra
plays and the girls get up and join their partners.
. . . The dance is on.”

in Coles

Buzzards' Glory

Buzzards’ Glory, thirty miles from Baltimore,
was recommended for its square dancing by so
many persons that it could not be overlooked. It
proved to be a fascinating place, located far out in
the country, From the outside it looked like a
private farm except for the large number of cars
and several Baltimore buses which were parked
in the yard.

The first impressions received on entering the
hall were the gay, homemade signs posted every-
where and the fact that there was no admission
charge. The signs informed us in rhymed and
cleverly phrased witticisms that drinking was
frowned upon, that the dancing was free except for
a collection to be taken up to pay for the orchestra
and upkeep of the hall, and that dancers were to
enjoy themselves but were to avoid undue rowdy-
ism. In another part of the building homemade
pies, cakes, and other light refreshments were sold,
along with beautiful hand carved woodwork rang-
ing from cedar chests to souvenir pins.

They're still swinging their
partners and having fun down
County, Illinois!

The seats around the floor were
crowded with an assortment of well
dressed young and old people from
both the city and the country. Roy
Baublitz, caller and son of the pro-
prietor, told us that he had learned
many of his calls from older callers in the commu-
nity but that he had changed them and invented
new ones to suit the patrons. His calling was
clear and easy to understand, sometimes in rhyme
and sometimes not.

The dancing was an unusual combination, for
square dance figures in sets of four couples were
danced in ballroom position with fox trot steps.
Even the swing was merely a series of ballroom
turns in which all four couples moved completely
around the square. The Georgia rang tang was
used to wind up each figure as in Oakland, but it
was not called, Some of the dances were Tarn
Butterfly, Cut Off Six, Lady ’round the Lady,
Rig/rt Hands Across, and Birdie in the Cage. In
the latter the caller inserted amusing terms when
referring to the active gent, for instance—hayseed,
farmer, lover, cream puff, woman hater, black-
eyed daisy, and at last, for contrast, gentleman.

It would have been fun to continue this quest
for rural square dancing, but the summer drew to
a close and with the next one came transportation
difficulties. Perhaps at some future date the search
can be carried on again in other parts of Maryland.

The District of Columbia

In Washington, D. C., the square dancing fol-
lows the pattern of that done in most large cities
and is rapidly growing in popularity, especially as
a recreational activity for servicemen and defense
workers. All types of dancing are found: New
England squares and longways, western squares
and schottisches, southern “squares” which are
done in one large circle, and even the Kentucky
Running Set which is a fast and furious dance that
takes forty-five minutes when all fifteen figures
are done without a pause as is true in some parts 'of
Kentucky and Tennessee where it is still danced.*
Favorite dances in Washington include:

SQUARES '

Little Brown Jug Wave to the Ocean

Texas Star' Duck and Dive
Take a Peek Comin’ Round the Mountain
Nellie Gray The Lancers

Life on the Ocean Wave Silent Couple

 

“Shara—Cecil. The Cauntr Dance Book. Volume V. The Run-
ning Set collected in entucky. London: Novedo and Com-
pany. 1909.

RECREATION

CIRCLE FIGURES

Right hands over Georgia rang tang
Eight hands across Shoo fly swing
Open and shut the garden gate Open tunnel
Four-leaf clover Thread the needle
Ocean wave Make a basket

LONGWAYS
Hull’s Victory

‘. irginia Reel

Money Musk
The Fireman’s Dance

Because they are not known to be in print else-
where, the calls for Silent C ouple are given here
in full. It came to Washington by way of Arthur
Lentz, New England caller, and is greatly enjoyed
by advanced dancers because of the prolonged

swings.
SILENT COUPLE *

Honor partners and corners.

Head couple cast off, lady go right, gent go left,
swing as you meet.

Head couple cast off, lady go right, gent go left,
swing as you meet.

Head couples forward and back.

Head couples half right and left.

Head couples circle four into Opposites’ places.

Head couple cast off, silent couple (3rd) down the
center, both swing.

Head couple cast off and join the sides (Ibetween
side couples).

Silent couple keep swinging.

Forward and 'back six.

Silent couple cast off, lady go right, gent go left,
swing as you meet.

Silent couple cast off, lady go
gee, gent go haw, swing as
you meet.

Silent couple join the sides.

Forward and back eight.

Forward and swing
partners into
place.

Promenade pokey
whirl (gents
join left hands
in center during
promenade).

Repeat with other
couples as head
in turn.

The Washing-
ton Flolk Council
is in the process
of compiling a di-
rectory of all
places to square

dance in the city,
‘ groups that may

 

*Square formation; 6/8
musm, for instance
“The Irish Washer-
woman.” or “Larry

0 Gaff.”

OCTOBER 1943

"Head couples ladies chain' and side
couples swing" from the dance. "Com-
in round the Mountain" — demon-

strated by the D. C. Do-Si-Do-ers

 

THE SQUARE DANCE CARRIES ON 371

be joined, and available callers and musicians in
order to meet the growing demand for information-
of this sort. One of the best callers in the city is
Ralph Case, originally from Ashville, who calls in
true North Carolina style. His team, made up of
VVashingtonians who call themselves the D. C. Do—
Si-Do-ers have exhibited in the National Folk
Festival, the Ashville Mountain Festival, and the
New England Festival at Boston. They spend
their time in Washington helping various church,
U.S.O., and other recreational groups learn the
rudiments of this very fascinating newly revived

American sport. Swing ’em high, swing ’em low,

swing that gal for a do-si-do! echoes far into the

night.

For the Older Folks

By HELEN PARKES

0R YEARS, many of the older women who be-
F longed to the Home Bureau in Coles County,
Illinois, had been asking “why can’t we invite our
husbands and do real square dances” as well as the
folk games they had been learning at annual Home
Bureau play days. '

This county has around 500 enthusiastic mem—
bers who have always carried on health, clothing,
and home management proj-
ects. When handcraft became
crowded out by more impor-
tant things in the program of
the Extension Ser~
vice of the Uni-
versity of Illinois,
they manufactured
their own pro-
grams, exhibits,
organized knitting
classes, and con-
ducted a very suc—
cessful year of
handcraft. Last
year they had fun
dramatizing the
government’s food
program at a “nu—
tritious exhibit
and supper” and
at the same time
received much
publicity through—
out several states.

For a time it

372 THE SQUARE DANCE CARRIES ON

seemed unwise to endanger the “good name” of
such a fine group by holding public dances but
with other successful ventures in mind, they “took
the bit in their teeth” and launched their adult
recreation parties.

Some of the more thoughtful ones decided that
these parties should be mostly for the older folks.
Young people are not barred (they have their own
rural youth meetings, anyway!) but neither are
they particularly invited. Older folks feel self-
conscious and are inclined to sit and watch where
there is too much young-dancing.

The parties are kept mostly squares with some
round dancing, waltzes, a circle dance or two, and
always something special in the way of a surprise.
Maybe an uproarious contest where laughter and
getting acquainted are the only important factors.
Maybe someone sings a special song or sometimes
everybody sings ! Always, there is the grand march
which gets everyone on the floor at once and winds
up with a Virginia Reel. Many of the oldsters have
been heard to remark that they haven’t had such
good times in fifty years!

One of the main reasons for their success is
having the use of a large auditorium at the Charles-
ton Teachers’ College, through the courtesy of the
president of the school, Dr. Robert G. Buzzard.
No one wants to be rowdy in such a beautiful
building. Everyone is too busy having a good
time, anyway!

A drawback at the College, however, is that ad—
mission cannot be charged. But since the expense
is for the orchestra, this enterprising group has
worked out a unique method of financing the pro j-
ect. The organization maintains a mailing list of
members and special guests and only these persons
are invited, keeping the affairs private. Some-
times 250——-and always at least I 50-———attend. Hosts
and hostesses are invited to sponsor each party
and pay one dollar each. Since only twelve or
fifteen dollars are needed, that many couples serve
each time. Each host and hostess serves only once
each season, and there is always a waiting list!

These parties are still going on in Coles County
——-even with gas rationing. That is the one thing
the women want to keep up, not as often as before
of course, (they had one each month last year)
but two or three throughout the winter months.
They are careful to fill up the cars, and are plan-
ning a combination supper the next time on a Sat-
urday night, when they will be in town anyway
getting the week’s supply of groceries!

Community Barn Dances
By J. H. WEBB

Recreation Supervisor

HERE IN BEAUMONT, TEXAS, the outstanding
activity for the past, year, the one that re-
ceives the most favorable comment, the most talked
ab0ut, and probably the most beneficial to all par-
ticipants, is our Community Barn Dances.

The first dances were given for the public in
March 1942. Our music was a phonograph and
records of the dances that we all started teaching.
During the year of 1942, our thirty WPA recrea-
tion leaders had been trained for a few weeks in
the art of square dancing, including calling the
figures, five different steps in the waltz, four dif-
ferent steps in the schottische, varsovinne, polkas,
and reels.

Each Wednesday night a small crowd of 25 to
100 people came, The first affairs were held in a
large building with a concrete Hoor, but within a
month the crowds grew in size until we had to
move into the Harvest Club, the real dance hall in
the local Fair Grounds.

We then secured the help of three brothers who
made up a local band of three instrumentsma
fiddle, guitar, and a banjo. Small cash donations
were given to the musicians. By this time there
were from 500 to 900 people attending each VVed-
nesday night, and when we arranged two dances
each week, Wednesdays and Saturdays, our at-
tendance was just as large at each dance.

The next step was acquiring a band with elec-
trical equipment and a public address system. Now
the music could be heard more distinctly, and di-
rections could be given directly to the dancers.
Volunteers always passed the hat and usually col-
lected from $20.00 to $25.00 for the musicians.
The dances cost the participants less than one cent
each.

For many months we used strictly a program
dance with the Paul Jones, squares, waltz, schot-
tische, fox-trot, and put-your-little—foot. The Paul
Jones with the men on the inside and the ladies on
the outside in circle formation has been the most
popular. Every time the whistle blows each per-
son gets a new partner. In this way everyone
meets new people, and it breaks down any for-
mality.

“7 e do the square dance by the use of a circle
at first. There are always from 50 to 100 couples

(Continued on page 417)
RECREATION

Joseph Lee

 

Complete information about last summer's
celebration of Joseph Lee Day is not yet
available, bu’r here are a few facfs telling
how a number of American cities honored
the memory of the man who made so greaf
a confribu’rion to the recreation movemenf

 

 

ACH YEAR the Department of Recreation of

U tica, New York, celebrates Joseph Lee Day

with a variety of activities. This year at
Chancellor Playground there was a Special Joseph
Lee memorial in the evening. Butler Playground
had a block dance from 8:30 to 10:30, using the
hard surface courts of the playground. At Hirt
special games and a picnic were planned to last all
day. Addison Miller, too, had a picnic and sched—
uled relay races. There was a costume parade at
the Athletic Field starting at three o’clock. Bran-
degee had Army and Navy Day, and at Lincoln
the special event was an amateur show planned for
seven o’clock. Cooper Playground celebrated with
a cracker eating contest, Pixley with a doll show,
and Roosevelt with a peanut hunt. A water car-

nival and six baby shows were also among the »

events.

OCTOBER 1943

Day— I943

There were fifty—five Joseph Lee programs con-
ducted on July 30th at the playgrounds maintained
by the Board of Education of St. Louis, Missouri.
Participants numbered 1,530; spectators, 8,136.
Thirty outstanding citizens gave the facts of
Joseph Lee’s life and interpretedthe value of the
playground movement to the city. Fifty-five play-
grounds out of the city’s sixty—seven had programs
with a variety of activities ranging from dancing
and singing groups for girls to boxing and wres-
tling matches for boys. Dramatics, puppet shows,
drum and bugle corps, Hag presentations by Boy
Scouts, amateur shows, the singing of patriotic
songs, a mother~daughter volleyball game, a quiz
program, and an original Joseph Lee playlet were
among the various activities presented for the
benefit of parents and friends of the children.

“The celebration of Joseph Lee Day,” writes
Alfred O. Anderson, Director of Physical Educa-
tion and Recreation, “is a prominent part of the
summer program on the Board of Education’s
sumhmer playgrounds.”

The City Council of Pueblo, Colorado, issued a
proclamation setting aside Joseph Lee Week by
the Recreation Commission “for appropriate pro-
grams to be arranged and dedicated through mass
youth participation in Pueblo’s parks and on play-
grounds throughout the city and county.” The
local newspaper carried information regarding Mr.
Lee’s life and achievements.

San Francisco, California, too, made Joseph
Lee Day official when Mayor Rossi asked that the
day be observed “in order that we may memorial-
ize the services of one of the foremost benefactors
of the entire nation in the field of rocreation.”
Open house was held on all of the playgrounds and
at the recreation centers on July 30th, and the in-
dividual playground and recreation units con~
ducted programs of diversified interest throughout
the week. Music, drama, and dance groups dedi-
cated their meetings during this period to the
memory of Mr. Lee. Children from twenty-two
playgrounds enjoyed a story picnic at the Sigmund
Stern Grove, and the midsummer musical at the
Grove on Sunday, August I,‘ was held in honor
of Mr. Lee.

A play day was held for children of all play-
grounds 011 July 28th. Beginning at 10:30 A. M.

(Continued on page 416)
373

They uJ ust Jump”

By CHARLES ANSELL

Jewish People's Institute

Chicago. Illinois

 

WANTED: |00,000 or more men and women
to lead groups of young people in their own
neighborhoods. Only strong and imagina-
tive prospects need applyl since the weak
and dull may be pained or shocked at the

crash ‘I'oday's children make in jumping
the chasm from childhood to maturity.

 

center’s Sunday night gym dance. From our

rented uke box, stomping boogie-woogie music
commanded every foot of space in the gym. The
floor was filled with couples, barely sixteen years
old, twisting and contorting themselves into back-
bends, twirls and gyrations that gave the atmos-
phere a frenzied aspect.

As I skirted the edge of the dance floor an arm
shot out and grabbed me at the elbow.

“Why don’t you ever dance, Mr. A. P”— a six-
teen year old Estelle left her dancing and came
with her partner, Louie, a high school s0phomore,
to confront me with her question.

I T WAS MY TURN at supervising our community

“Why, I’m afraid I never could learn this stuff!”
I stammered, pointing vaguely at the dancers.

“Why it’s easy, nothing to it!” said Estelle, and
in an instant she was dancing Opposite me while I
stood stiflly.

“Come on, Mr. A., there’s nothing to it!” she
insisted.

Awkwardly I made vague efforts at doing what
I imagined to be the basic steps of jitterbugging.
The jumpy, stomping rhythm defied everything
I had learned about behavior on the ballroom floor.
Nevertheless as I watched Estelle hop about, I
sensed that somewhere in this orgy of leg throw-
ing there was a basic and familiar dance step, and
from out of the cobwebs of my memory I found
myself dusting off the knee-bends and foot-twist-
ing of the old Charleston.

374

“It’s like the old Charleston!” I said to Estelle.
“Sure, sure,” she reassured me . . . “except, ex-
cept. . . .”

“Except what?” I asked, 3-5 EStelle kept hop“
ping before me.

“Except that you jump, you just jump,” Estelle
explained explosively. She felt relieved at her ex-
planation, because it answered her wondering gaze
out among the dancers and explained her own
hopping to herself.

Estelle’s phrase, “you just jump,” remained
with me for days after the dance. I had been
searching for a key to the strange, new behavior
I had found among our sixteen year old inter-
mediates and among our juniors and preps, ten to
fourteen year old boys and girls. In their club
meetings, in the games room, in their walking
across corridors and down steps they seemed “to
jump.” There was a nervousness—a restlessness
—about the way they dealt with each other. At
parties and dances ordinary horse-play was at-

.. tended by quick impulsive actions and resistance ‘

was seen in sudden, impatient moves.

A Real Nice, Big Party

My inSpiration was uncovered at the party of
the Aristos, a junior girls group ranging from ten
to thirteen years. The meetings at which the party
was planned were hot with excitement and vigor-
ous determination.

“We’vegot to put ourselves on the map! W e’ve
go to let the other kids know who we are!” These
commanding drives for recognition soon eventu—
ated into “Let’s have a party, a real nice, big
party. We’ll invite . . .”

And so the party came off. It was big; its “nice-
ness” remains a matter for preachers and sociolo-
gists to argue over. '

The Aristos earned their recognition, despite
the three first—aid calls and the five ruined dresses,
despite the pools of red pop on the floor, and
despite the fact that in desperation the center was
compelled to close the social lounge thirty minutes
before the scheduled time, evicting the Aristos and
their invited guests.

Can you remember how you acted in the com-
pany of young ladies at twelve? Remember how

RECREATION

THEY “JUST JUMP” 375

stiff and incredibly embarrassed you were when
you went to your first party? Remember how
polite and formal we thought we were and how
daring we thought our games were when we had
to hold hands with the girls? These memories
need not go back very far. They were largely real
all through the 20’s and through the 30’s.

But be my guest at the Aristos party in 1943.
See that boy with the zoot coat, the long jacket
that stretches just above his knees with the drape
shape. Notice his slick, combed hair. Notice how

way near the alcove and the dancers have glided
out on the floor again. ‘

Accelerated Maturity

At home that evening the behavior of my kids
over the last year ran through my mind. I saw a
hundred similar experiences and tried to put my
finger on something. It was after the Aristos
party that it came to me. Accelerated maturity,
that was it. It seemed simple after I formed the
phrase. The youngsters had “just jumped”—the

 

carefully his tie is knotted. He’s only twelve and
his friends, dressed like him, are also about twelve.
Watch him‘and his friends with girls. See any
embarrassment or restraint there? Notice how he
grabs his girl by the wrist and helps her to her
feet? Now watch them dance. Any stiffness there?
Look at them twirl and twist, note that bored look
of complete confidence, the true mark of the
stomping, jumping society of jitterbugs.

There’s another couple, not more than thirteen,
either one of them. The music is slower now and
they’re gliding down the floor to an alcove out of
view. Once in the shadow of the alcove their glid—
ing slows to gestures feebly suggestive of the dance
form. The “supervisor” has discreetly found his

OCTOBER 1943

Courtesy Raleigh, North Carolina, Recreation Commission

twelve year oldsters jumped to eighteen and the
fourteen, fifteen, sixteen year oldsters just jumped
to their mid—twenties.

Up to two years ago our center’s program func—
tioned in an established pattern of dividing its
membership into age groups. _The seniors, young
men and women from twenty to twenty—five, cre—
ated and followed programs customarily expected
of people of that age level. The level and tone of
behavior in most circumstances coincided with the
standards expected of persons in that age bracket.

Likewise in the sub—senior age groups, young
men and women, from seventeen to twenty, com-
ported themselves with regard and deference to
the imagined sophistication and maturity of their .

376 THEY “JUST JUMP”

seniors, and with patronizing indulgence they en—
couraged their immediate juniors, the intermedi-
ates, boys and girls from fourteen to seventeen, in
the latters’ programs.

Thus, too, the preps and the juniors, the gram-
mar school age children, roughly from eight to
fourteen, innocently carried on in the game rooms,
the craft rooms, woodshop and in the pool.

It was a neat and ordered social universe. Imi-
tating and intruding on the behavior styles ahead
or behind was insolent and, to more scientific
minds, it was judged abnormal.

The age divisions adopted by our center were
fairly universal among community centers, settle—
ments and the like. We were amply supported by
an imposing array of psychologists, sociologists,
and anthropologists who agreed that fairly definite
behavior patterns existed within these age groups.
\Ve leisure-time experts built our houses on foun-
dations excavated by our revered philoso-
phers. We created life situations, we
helped set the stage so that growth and
graduation from one level to another could
be achieved with a minimum of pain and
awkwardness.

Then came the war. Our Honor Roll
jumped to 475 in one year. Our senior
girls slowly vanished into the myriad vol-
unteer tasks of civilian defense and into the uni-
forms of the more glamorous volunteer occupa-
tions. A dozen or more of them found their way
into the \VACS, WAVES and SPARS, but most
of them just withdrew from the active social life
of the center and spent their time between their
jobs and their work in the war relief agencies.
This slow exodus of senior girls was duplicated
among our sub-senior girls when the eighteen year
old boys were called.

The group that remained at the center were in-
termediate boys and girls. In the first several
months following the disappearance of seniors and
sub—seniors, we discovered the intermediates sched-
uling lounges and arranging activities pointedly
imitative of the young men and women five and
ten years their senior.

The juniors and preps, the children particu—
larly from ten to fourteen years of age, seemed
suddenly to develop a keen awareness of social life
and they too plunged into a series of parties, be-
having for the most part like the Aristos.

What had happened? They had jumped. Each
age level, with one accord, seemed to move up one,
two, or three age divisions until all were acting

  
  

VICTORY

I, . UNITED
, STATES

and behaving in this strange, pseudo-maturish
way.

Maturity of the Streets

So this is what our kids understand by matur-
ity, I thought. Behavior which in my teen-aged
1920’s would have scandalized my seniors was
now the model for imagined maturity. This sud-
den jump to maturity seemed Frankenstein-like.
One of the strongest pillars in the philosophy of
our work was our concern over social maturity.
A personality rooted in habits of making good
social adjustments, assuming responsibility and
devoted to a love of democratic process in all group
relations—these were some of our accepte'd indices
to maturity. :"

But this! This was the maturity of the streets.
This was the maturity born out of frenzy to hurdle
from the awkward age to the coveted age using
the mentality of the ten year old to guide
the behavior of the eighteen year old. This
was a silent revolution, without apostles,
without leaders, without agitators.

The gentle approach, the formal, deli-
cate amenities in the boy-girl relationship
that you and I knew are fast slipping by
and, important to know, it isn’t all John—
nie’s doing. Miss 1943, from twelve to
seventeen years old, draws a different kind of at-
titude from Johnnie, and Johnnie is only reacting
to a situation, which he did not create, in a way
that anyone else would. Johnnie’s girl friend is not
much given to blushing or tittering or joining her
girl friends in a corner to giggle over a delicately
salacious morsel. Johnnie’s female contemporaries
are frank, aggressive when they want to be, wiser
than mother or grandmother not only in the “facts
of life” but in that special sex-wise sense of un—
derstanding men.

Some of our more impatient fourteen, fifteen,
and sixteen year old girls, chafing in their resent-
ment at being ineligible for hostess duty at USO
centers, play the role unofficially, entertaining the
servicemen under private auspices. Their jump to
maturity can deceive the most discerning, hence
police and juvenile authorities are often shocked
to find a girl who looks and acts eighteen really
only fourteen or fifteen.

In the patriotic impulse to build morale, well-
intentioned folk have surrounded the man in uni-
form with a romantic aura. Hollywood grinds out
its stories of love’s last Hing before the battle and
Tin Pan alley insists that “You Can’t Say ‘N o’ to

RECREATION

THEY “JUST JUMP”

a Soldier!” What’s a poor
high school girl going to
do ?

The Blue Arrow Boys

One Sunday night I
walked out of the big gym
during a dance and pass-
ed Joe Tyler’s desk where
tickets were sold. Joe
shook his head gravely at
me and muttered, “Worst
in twenty-five years. .
Can’t remember anything
like it!” Now Joe Tyler
is an old member of the
center and a willing vol—
unteer in handling crowds
at our theater or gym
doors. During the week he
works in a defense plant
but he likes to take his
recreation at the center.

“I tell you, Mr. A.,” Joe began, “I’ve been com-
ing here for more than thirty years but I swear
I’ve never seen anything to compare with this!”

What disturbed Joe that evening was the sud-
den appearance of eight strange young men, all of
them about eighteen years old, dressed as though
they had just finished a day’s work in a garage.
They crowded past Joe so fast that he couldn’t
get around to his customary inspection. At the
Sunday night dances boys are expected to wear
suit-coats, shirts, and ties. These boys wore dull,
discolored suede jackets zipped half-way down
with threadbare scarves knotted loosely below the
throat to resemble cravats. Behind the shabby
scarves were blue work shirts Opened at the collar.
Trousers were unpressed and their shoes were so
grimed from neglect that the top leather seemed
to be scaling away.

Alone on duty that evening, watching this
strange group of eight young men as they wan-
dered restlessly, I sensed all the characteristics of
the gang in their unity. Suspecting trouble at any
moment, I watched them closely until I felt I had
"spotted the leader.

“Good evening,” I smiled.

The leader acknowledged my greeting in a scowl.
Blocking his way by standing before him I at-
tempted to engage him in conversation.

“Been dancing at all this evening?” I asked.

“Naw, don’t care to.” The reply was sullen.

OCTOBER 1943

\

 

Photo by Flood, Casper Herald-Tribune

377

“Maybe it’s because

 you don’t know the girls

here,” I ventured.

“We don’t have to
know the girls to dance.
. . . If we want to dance
we will,” he answered.

“But,” I suggested,
“we’re running a dance
and it seems kind of funny
for fellows your age to
want to come in only to
watch and mOpe around.”

“We got more impor-
tant things to do,” growl-
ed the leader. He smiled
at his companions. They
laughed vulgarly and
shouted their approval at
the leader.

At this point I intro—
duced myself formally to
the leader and to the boys
around him.

“You fellows are new around here, aren’t you?”
I asked.

“Yes,” the leader admitted. “We got our own
rooms down at Phillips Street. We’ve been there
for almost a year. Used to be the Blue Arrows’
club rooms.”

From my work with the “basement” or “cellar”
clubs in the community the name Blue Arrows
was familiar. The original Blue Arrows were now
all in the service.

I learned from talking with these boys that at
sixteen and seventeen they had inherited the man-
tle of the Blue Arrows in maintaining the club
rooms. They were anxious to keep the club_rooms
and desperately anxious to be able to pay the rent.
The original Blue Arrows, at twenty-three, twenty-
four, and twenty—five, were working boys, capable
of meeting rent and utility bills, capable of being
trusted to bring only their fiancees or current
favorites down to the club rooms for a social.

The new Blue Arrows were sixteen, seventeen,
and eighteen, some of them in high school, others
working at first jobs or working after school and
during week ends. Jumping headlong into the tra-
dition of their predecessors, they risked much of
their earnings in the adventurous weekly dice or
poker games, and as for bringing regular girl
friends to the club rooms, they were far ahead of
the seniors. With fully half the group now IA,

378 THEY “JUST JUMP”

there was too little time or patience to cultivate:
“steadies”; frankly, they came out to the dance
tonight to size up possibilities. They cast apprais-
ing eyes at the high school sophomore girls twirl-
ing their frenzied dances; with critical attention
they watched the girls sweeping by with their
skirts billowing. Their self-confidence and deter-
mination of purpose was a little frightening.

“What’s happened to the Club Federation?” I
asked more out of a curiosity to learn if the Fed-
eration was at least familiar to these young men.

“All the boys are gone and there’s no time to
start organizing the Federation with us guys
around. . . . We don’t know when we’ll be going.”

The Federation represented an effort to organ-
ize the cellar clubs and bring self-government and
self-policing powers to the clubs. And the plan
worked until Selective Service began to function
in earnest. Now, for the duration, these boys were
above and beyond the pale of self-policing and self-
government. They wanted to be left alone; their
IA cards drove them on furiously.

War Comes to the Game Room

Almost all community centers, social settle-
ments, Y’s and the like have an open game room
in their programs. This is the room to which the
eight to fourteen year old child goes if he is a
newcomer to the agency, or if he has failed to de-

velop any interest above the level of random play. '

The game room is equipped with active games:
ping-pong, darts, ring-toss, shuffleboard, and with
quiet games; checkers, monopoly, pick-up sticks,
etc. Ideally the game room is intended to serve
as that activity which helps the leader to under—
stand the child from the interest he exhibits at
play and to offer the child an experience in social
’living by pairing him with other children in games
requiring cooperation and wholesome competition.

The war has wrought near havoc with the in-—
tentions of the game room. The active games, the
games that require proof of superiority through
physical agility and prowess, are the most coveted
and have been usurped by the big and strong. The
quiet games, checkers and pick-up sticks, have
fallen to the smaller and weaker. Of course, with
an agency supervisor on duty these traits are
checked or discouraged; but left alone, assertive-
ness rises to power, and so strong are the drives
for assertiveness that the power of authority has
lost much of its effectiveness. To the power-driven
boy, authority has become a challenge, an obstacle
to circumvent. I have spoken to boys and girls

about some destructive behavior only to discover
that I wasn’t being heard. Psychologists call it
“functional deafness.”

From eight to eighteen, boys and girls are whirl-
ing dizzily in this boogie-woogie dance of acceler-
ated maturity. When and where the volcanic
churning will stop we hardly know. But when the
earth cools again and the air is cleared we may be
certain we will find a different Species of youth.

What Shall We Do?

If we adults—parents, teachers, children’s work-
ers in centers, playgrounds and summer camps—
can offset the false maturity our young people have
assumed with truly mature outlooks upon life and
its responsibilities, we shall have a generation
hardened in crisis and sharpened by experience.
But if we merely hang back and gasp with moral
revulsion at the mockery our youth is making of
maturity, we shall have a new generation of tired
cynics and old men and women beaten at the ripe
old age of twenty-live.

Trying to fight this tidal wave of accelerated
maturity seems as effective as Chanute at the
ocean shore. What can we do? We can set about
to analyze and revaluate our efforts in our mad
scramble to work in the known war relief agencies.
We shall have to broaden the scope of wartime
needs to include the social and psychological care
of our youth.

Aiding the war effort is for the most part an
adult monopoly. With the exception of a few
national organizations whose young membership
numbers a small minority, the majority of Ameri-
can youth remains relatively unaffected by the war
and its needs.

Community centers, settlements, Y’s and churches
with club and social programs can testify for the
hundreds of thousands of young people in immedi-
ate need of leadership and guidance. Most agen-
cies have suffered a severe toll in loss of leader-
ship material in the young men now in the armed
forces, and the young pe0ple who stay behind to
work at war industries are far too weary to in-
volve themselves in anything except their work.

We are permitting our home front defenses to
weaken. Civilian defense organizations with their
incredible’maze of block and community organiza-
tions spread over the country the promise of a
revitalized democratic life for America, but they
are daily missing the boat. The job of organizing
young people, block by block, to fit them into the

(Continued on page 418)
RECREATION

Social Centers Are Citizens, War

Service Stations

" 00L YOUR EFFORTS with
P your neighbors to help
win the war on the home
front” is the 1943 slogan of -
the Department of Municipal
Recreation and Adult Educa-
tion of the Milwaukee Public
Schools, which this year is
maintaining twenty-one social
centers and eleven gymnasi-
ums and auditorium centers in the city’s schools.
And in September, when the centers opened, a
wide variety of activities was offered Milwaukee’s
citizens.

The program of sports and games includes in-
door baseball, volleyball, basketball, gymnasium
classes, table tennis, pocket billiards, table games,
dart ball, chess, and contract bridge. Instruction is
offered in boxing, wrestling, fly and bait casting,
fly tying, golf and swimming. The Men’s Munici-
pal Athletic program lists twenty—eight indoor and
outdoor sports. The Women’s Athletic Associa-
tion is composed of the athletic associations of the
various social centers and membership is open to
women and girls fifteen years of age and over who
no longer attend grade school. Volleyball, fist
ball, dart ball, basketball, badminton, bowling,
tennis, indoor and outdoor softball make up the
program.

There is dancing at all of the social centers for
“fun, sociability, health, grace and poise,” with

'o
I.

‘,__ g

\ 5

OCTOBER 1943

The use of school buildings as commu-
nity recreation centers will be more im-
portant this yearI many leaders feel,
than it has ever been before. Have you
made plans to provide such centers in
your community, where war workersI new-
comersI and citizens in general may find
both recreational and educational oppor—
tunities? Milwaukee's plan for the cur-
rent season may have suggestions for you.

 

classes in ballet, tap, folk, old
time and ballroom dancing.
Instruction in ballroom danc-
ing is offered junior high
school boys and girls, and
there are rhythmic and danc-
ing classes for little children
as young as five years.

Arts and crafts have an im-
portant part in the program
for, as the announcement of the social center sea-
son suggests, “The arts and crafts, needlework,
dress designing and woodwork, provide not only
highly enjoyable pastimes, but become practical
and profitable solutions of conservation and short-
age problems.”

Weaving with all its possibilities for beautiful
and useful home furnishings is being featured, and
looms and instruction are provided. Applied arts,
sewing and dressmaking, interior decoration, knit-
ting and crocheting, needlecraft, woodworking,
avigation, photography and sketching are offered.
Clubs are being organized at all the centers for
model plane making, with courses scheduled at
one center in the theory of plane flight, aerody-
namics, meteorology, avigation rules and regula—
tions, with instruction in the recognition and spot-
ting of planes.

There are dramatics for juniors and seniors, with
afternoon courses in creative drama for children
of elementary and junior high school age, and
play production by adult groups with in-
struction and practice in voice, diction,
interpretation, and stage technique.

Music, “most enjoyed in companion-
ship with others,” offers a wide range of
activities—bands, orchestras, string en—
sembles, women’s choruses, and opera
choruses.

Community features of the Department
of Municipal Recreation include the Mu-
nicipal Children’s Theater where adult

’/
/ actors produce children’s plays every Sat-

wwwwwuww

Print by Gedge Harmon

urday afternoon; Saturday evening dances
with a fee of 17 cents including wardrobe;

( Continued on page 410)
379 '

Recreation Pioneering in lceland

HE QUESTION of respon-
sibility for the recrea-

tion program in the iso—
lated, bleak, treeless, glacial
island of Iceland created a
great deal of discussion until
Pearl Harbor. After that
memorable day, the Army
and the American Red Cross
swung into action with such speed that we found
ourselves sailing from New York City on Decem—
ber 12, 1941.

We realized that we were pioneers in the field
of recreation for our overseas troops, and all thir—
teen of us were determined to provide a good pro-
gram regardless of obstacles that we knew would
confront us. We did not realize at that time, how-
ever, to what extent the Red Cross recreation pro-
gram was to grow—from this 'small group to sev-
eral thousands scattered all over the world.

Upon arrival in Iceland we discovered several
vital factors that would affect our program, over
and above 'the complete lack of facilities and
equipment:

I. First and foremost, our soldiers were in a
foreign country that had no particular interest in
our men; therefore, they had no interest in the
country or people. This feeling of not being wel—
comed made our soldiers anxious to return home.

  nEcR‘tAnoN ;; -
CENTER '  A

" . t , ‘ - - ' .  mama are cass P

a“

 

380

By FRANK H. HAGAN

The men in Iceland were the first contingent
of the AEF in this war—what they did for
recreation on this treeless, glacial island
is told by the man who was director of rec-
reation with the American Red Cross in Ice-
land for fifteen months after Pearl Harbor.

on.

2. In many cases it was
necessary for the serviceman
to leave his friends and or-
ganization to do guard duty
at some isolated, lonely out-
post, with only a few men
for associates.

3. His craving for the
city, with its luxurious res-
taurants, swing bands, and happy, carefree week
ends went unanswered.

4. Frequent leaves, furloughs and trips were of
course impracticable, thus leaving the man in the
same environment too long.

5. He was constantly facing the tedious task of
guard duty and “just waiting.”

6. The soldier also had a large amount of dock
duty, which he disliked.

7. Slow mail and lack of news from the outside
world was another “gripe.”

8. The weather was a real headache. Cold rain
for forty—two consecutive days had its effect on
the recreation program, particularly on outddor
act1v1t1es.

The natural act of play becomes difficult when
the individual cannot relax in his strange but all—
too—familiar surroundings. But we realized that
the servicemen must play, regardless of cost or
effort, or they would lose that intangible spirit we

RECREATION

RECREATION PIONEERING IN ICELAND 381

call morale, so important to their very existence
there. Play in Iceland serves as a substitute for
disciplinary action, because it helps to remove the
“gripes” and to defeat boredom, homesickness,
and the feeling of futility and self—pity.

Knowing these 'problems and suffering from an
overdose of ambition and enthusiasm, we moved
in to attack. In our first “major battle” We were
so badly defeated that we called it our Crete. This
was our attempt to secure recreation facilities. The
military was unable to assist us, and the Icelanders
were not interested in selling any building to
Americans. Determined not be beaten down, we
decided to take our program right to the men in
their camps. This started the well known ball
rolling and camp programs proved very successful.

The type of program varied according to the
size of facilities available in camp. In some cases
the program was carried entirely by the recreation
workers; and again, the girls acted as mistresses
of ceremonies to pull talent from the group. Music,
community singing, games, quizzes, charades, and
double-or—nothing programs proved successful.

The coffee, or “social hour,” after the program
provided an opportunity for the men to talk with
the girls. In many cases they were the first
women these men had seen in six months. The
men discussed their problems, talked of their loved
ones, showed their snapshots, or “just visited.”

Camp programs were very pOpular and met a
real need, but they were not the complete solution
to our problem. We needed recreation for large
groups in highly concentrated areas and in the
villages Where the men gather when off duty.

Ten Recreation Centers were finally established
throughout the island for enlisted men who were
off duty. Each Center was a series of Nissen huts
put together with the idea of providing as many
facilities as possible in a limited amount of space.
The Center seems to be the answer to our prob-
lems, because it provides an atmOSphere of home,
American girls to talk to, reading and writing
rooms, all types of game room equipment, movies,
dancing, dramatics, and music.

All musical and dramatic talent is drafted from
the enlisted men at the Army and Navy bases.
Recreation workers on camp programs submit a
list of “talent” they have discovered. Clearance
for such shows, as well as movies, is made through
the Base Special Services Office. Our talent scouts
have also helped to deve10p several dance and
concert bands. The bands remain under the juris—
diction of the military, but are available for our

OCTOBER 1943

 

Time out to catch up on their reading
and warm up around the old stove . . .

dances and concert programs. The biggest obsta—

- cles in conducting weekly dances is the shortage

of native girls in comparison with the number of
men who want to dance.

Coffee hour in our Centers proved so satisfactory
from the social recreation standpoint that each
Center allotted time twice a day for this activity.
Free coffee and doughnuts or some other suitable
refreshment were served.

Discussion groups on Icelandic history, culture,
industry, etc., as well as British, American and
Norwegian topics proved very popular.

Hobby clubs Were not as successful as they
could have been. Lack of time .and equipment
made it difficult to expand this phase of the pro-
gram. Holiday parties, song fests, and progres-
sive game parties would always bring out such
remarks as, “best time I have had since I left the

J! {"

States,” “girls and everything, Just like home,”

382 RECREATION PIONEERING IN ICELAND

 

"Somewhere in Iceland" American sailors
and soldiers draw up their chairs and get
ready for an old-fashioned song fest

“Iceland wouldn’t be so bad
if we had more of these.”

The rousing reception
given the program by the men was encouraging.
But conditions were so bad that anything we did
was “just swell,” and the enthusiasm isn’t much
of a measuring stick for the program. Major
General Charles H. Bonesteel and his capable staff
have done a wonderful job in making the boys as
comfortable as possible. But as General George
Marshall has said, “Iceland and Panama are the
most nerve—racking American outposts.” Exciting
things rarely happen, yet everyone must be on the
alert. The men feel that they are missing all the
fun of the war, and yet someone must guard the
rocks or the Jerries will move in with their
U—boats and take over the Allied shipping sea
lanes to Britain and Russia.

The boys protecting those shipping lanes on our
ships must do their shopping and other business in
Iceland in a hurry, because “liberty parties” are
few and far between. To help them we have set
up a small information booth in Reykjavik, the
capital city, and one in each of the Centers on the
north and east coast. Here the men can get infor-
mation about the city, stores, streets, professional
services, recreation facilities, churches, educational

and cultural opportunities,
local sightseeing trips, trans-
portation and boat sched-
ules, assistance in locating friends and relatives.
Educational classes in material for Officer Can-
didate Schools are held at night in the little In-
formation Booth.

The men’s interest in arts and crafts and writ-
ing songs and poetry has been encouraged and
stimulated through various contests and exhibits.
Exhibits constitute an excellent method of encour—
aging crafts, which provide the men with some-
thing to do in their huts while “sweating out” the
long winter nights.

The lack of gymnasium space was a real prob-
lem. \Ve rented the use of the native swimming
pool and gymnasium, but they were inadequate
when compared with the hours of use and facilities
“back home.” Tournaments in softball and volley—
ball were run off in the summer despite the rain.
Each organization had a champion who competed
in the tournament for championship of the island.

The‘men have plenty of money to spend for
their recreation, but there is nothing on which to
spend it. The Icelandic language is the old Norse
of about 1000 A. D., which complicates matters

(Continued on page 414)
RECREATION

A Soldier Likes an Easy _Chair

By S‘ M' ABRAHAMS hospitality, a chance to be with

civilians, and the feeling that
they were well enough thought
of to be guests.

The hosts became enthusi-
astic when they had enjoyed
the company of the men, and
the men were articulate in their

WHITE TABLECLOTH, a
A napkin, an easy chair in
which to sink deep, light

a cigarette, and feel at home——
these things are worth a mil-

"lion to the man in service. The
hospitality of a friendly private

This story of home hospitality in the
New Jersey shore area was written by
Mr. Abrahams when he was USO di-
rector at Asbury Park. He has since
been stationed in Jacksonville. Florida.

family is a pleasant contrast to
the bustling mass activity of camp.

The serviceman loves an unhurried meal and
leisurely table conversation: He wants to be able
to eat with plenty of elbow room, although he has
had to learn to eat with his elbows close to his
sides because of the pressure of men at his right
and left. He wants to have a meal where he doesn’t
have to wash up the dish which did for the bread
and butter, the vegetables, the meat and the des-
sert, although he is always ready and willing to
help. And he is just as-grateful for a humble meal
as he is for a grand spread with all the trimmings,
because it is not the meal he wants or needs—it’s
the company.

Convinced of the importance of home hospitality
to the soldiers and its good effect on civilians, we
decided to make family fun a part of the USO
program in the New Jersey shore area.

We found people generally lethargic. There was
an increasing feeling that the war is a serious busi-
ness, and that large parties with great fanfare,
tinsel, bright lights, balloons, and mountains of
food were in bad taste. Economy was also a de-
terrent as were increasing taxes and higher prices,
Gas and tire rationing, dimout regulations, and the
fear of overburdening domestic help and losing
them were additional arguments against having
parties.

We made appointments with people at the
beaches, ,talked with them in restaurants or
churches, and at every opportunity asked them to,
invite soldiers to their homes. Many people were
apprehensive. They did not know what kind of
men they would get. Some were fearful that the-

men would not know how to conduct themselves,'.-

and others did not know what kind of food and
drinks to serve. ‘

The fears of the first few were dispelled by
pointing out that the primary interest of the men
in uniform was not the table. Our men wanted

OCTOBER 1943

genuine appreciation of the hospitality. Word
soon got about in the community that the men
were “lovely boys” who were very appreciative.
Many people lost their hesitancy about having men
in service at their homes. In a few days a commit-
tee of lay people was organized, signing up some
fifty-five families to invite men to dinner at least
once a week. Several people who, with trepida-
tion, invited two-soldiers have now increased the
number of their guests to as many as six, and if a
couple of soldiers who have previously been in—
vited accidentally drop in just at serving time, they
too are welcome. And quite a few do dr0p in.

‘It is a most successful program. The hosts and
hostesses get tremendous pleasure out of their con-
tribution. They treasure the stacks of letters of
appreciation from the men. It is not uncommon
for a host to pull out of his pocket a letter of
thanks from a serviceman to read to his friends
with great pride.

The impact of the different cultures from all
parts of the country on the hosts is salutary. The

. difference in the mode of living becomes an inter-

esting item for after-dinner conversation. The
men in service get great satisfaction from knowing
they are wanted. Home hospitality affords a
quieter form of recreation which is thoroughly en—
joyed by men who are engaged in large group

I activities all day.

Our_hosts and hostesses have learned that the
great need of most people is to feel wanted and
that the man in uniform is no exception. As a
matter of fact his need is‘greater because he has
been taken out of the normal way of living. All

.- his plans, hopes, and ambitions have been put into

moth balls for the duration.

The younger the serviceman the greater the
need. The eighteen or nineteen year old dramati-

: c’ally,points up the need for civilian and home

(Continued on page 411)
383

Halloween—Community Style

New Britain Changes Its Plans

HERE COULD be no Halloween parades last year
Tin New Britain, Connecticut, but there had to

be a celebration of some kind, so the Recrea—
tion Department took the initiative in proposing
to all the private agencies, the housing projects,
and various churches that they cooperate with the
Department in conducting neighborhood parties.
Twelve different organizations worked together,
and fifty volunteers with the staff members of
these agencies helped to make a success of the eight
parties which were attended by 1,700 children.

Commenting on the plan, the local paper said:

“\Nhether as a result of numerous neighbor-
hood parties arranged under the auspices of the
Municipal Recreation Commission, or because of
the sobering effect of the war on the young pe0ple,
this city’s 1942 Halloween proved the most quiet
and peaceful in decades, local officials said late
Saturday night. Much credit for the lack of rowdy—
ism and vandalism was given the party plan under
which the city-sponsored gatherings were held in
eight halls, all of them well attended.”

Before Halloween the Superintendent of Schools
and the Superintendent of Recreation sent the fol-
lowing joint letter to the parents of every school
child in the city urging them to hold home parties :

“Halloween night this year falls on Saturday.
October 31st. As you know, every year the city
suffers considerable loss in property damage re—
sulting from the pranks of children who roam the
streets in groups.

“Our nation is
at war! We can
ill afford to suffer
the loss of vital
materials and
pr0perty. Every
pane of glass and
useful metal arti—
cle must be made
to last until the
war is over. Re—
placement of these
things is nearly
impossible now. It
is imperative that

384

 

Print by Gedge Harman

all citizens help to preserve these materials.

“The undersigned, therefore, strongly urge you
to hold a party in your hOme on Halloween night
for. your children and their friends. It is a simple
thing to ask your child to invite his friends to come
to a costume party at your house. A small prize
for the best costume, simple games which all chil—
dren know, and a few refreshments will make your

party successful.

“You will be surprised at the fun you will get
out of it. You certainly will be happy in the
thought that in this small way you and your chil—
dren have made a distinct contribution to our, war

effort.”

Watertown Holds a Parade

EARLY 8,000 PEOPLE lined up to watch the fun
last Halloween when 900 \Natertown, New

York, children paraded through the business
section of the city in full costume. It was the third
successive year in which the municipal Recreation
Department had conducted this city-wide cele—

bration.

Leading the parade were two marshals—one
attired as George Washington riding a white horse
and the other dressed as Paul Revere on a brown
horse. Children from various schools were divided
into four sections, each led by a division marshal.

Four youth bands participated—including the
Children’s Home of Jefferson County, American

Legion drum and bugle corps, Watertown drum
and bugle corps,

an d the Black
River High School
band.

march in front of
the judges’ stand
each year, one is
selected as the out—
standing musical
unit on the basis
of costumes, origi-
nality, effort, and
interest shown
during the march.

The school with

RECREATION

As the bands ’

HALLOWEEN—COMMUNITY STYLE 385

the largest representation in the parade, as well
as outstanding costumes, effort and interest, is
awarded a $15 prize. Individual awards of all de-
scriptions are made for the boys, girls, and adults
——handed down from the judges’ stand which is
specially built for the occasion and covered with
corn stalks and other Halloween decorations.

Following the parade, comes the annual Hal-
loween Block Dance, starting at 8:45 P. M. and
ending promptly at II P. M. A novel program is
' arranged for the younger children during the dance
-——and they are kept busy with pie eating, apple
ducking, and quiz contests.

Members of the local police department, military
police, and auxiliary police unit help to keep order
during the parade. Volunteers assigned to each
school group meet the boys and girls at a desig-
nated place at the formation point. Each school
usually carries a banner.

After the parade is over, parents, older brothers
or sisters must see that the children return home
safely. During the parade the volunteers are re-
sponsible to see that the youngsters stay in a group.

This city-wide Halloween celebration is spon-
sored by the Watertown public schools, civic and
service clubs, parent-teachers’ organizations, and
student councils of the various schools.

A Community Project

EWTON, MASSACHUSETTS, begins planning its
N community Halloween parties early in the
year—and every report from the Recreation De-
partment of this city of 70,000 indicates that such
farsightedness goes a long way to assure the suc-
cess of the celebration.

After preliminary meetings, an Executive Com-
mittee is set up, comprised of outstanding persons
to be in charge of food, finance, recreation, and so
on. Then a coordinator is chosen from each of the
twelve villages of Newton. Each coordinator has
a building chairman, and each building chairman
has a room chairman for each room in the building.

Next step in organizing the
community party is to hold
meetings for these coordina-
tors and a member of the Rec—
reation Department who can
outline plans and answer
questions. Each village and
building committee is sup-
plied with books, plays,

OCTOBER 1943

In describing Newton's well planned
Halloween parties, F. Ewing Wilson,
Recreation CommissionerI lists these
pointers: Use care in selecting com-
mittees and chairmen. sell the idea to
the schools before starting with the
public, supply good material, know the
attendance in advance. AND be sure
to have plenty of paper cups and napkins!

stories, and a list of Halloween games and is al-
lowed to work out its own plan for entertainment.

When Halloween arrived last year, all was in
readiness for community parties throughout the
city. The refreshments—85 bushels of apples, 460
gallons of cider, 1,000 dozen doughnuts, 3,000 in-
dividual packages of ice cream, 6,000 cookies, 9,000
paper napkins, and 9,000 paper cups—were de-
livered at a central place at 9 A. M., and divided
into separate packages for each building, with the
contents and destination marked on each package.
Eight trucks, all donated, came at 4 P. M. and
everything was delivered by 5:30. A Red Cross
canteen unit in uniform served in each building.

To eliminate the old Halloween custom of ring-
ing doorbells and begging for candy the Recrea—
tion Department asked everyone who was plan-
ning to give candy at the door not to do this, but
to send it to the nearest school.

Parties started at 6:30 for the smaller children
and ended at 8 o’clock. The next older group
started at 7:00 while the junior and senior high
school groups started at 7 :30. Junior high parties
ended at IO :00 and senior high at II :00 P. M.

Ten orchestras provided the music for the high
school dances with the junior and senior parties
held separately. Since Newton is in a dimout area
and there was the hazard of children going home
alone on dark streets when their party was over,
auxiliary ‘police and air raid wardens were sta-
tioned near each building and at busy street inter-
sections. In addition to committee members, a
member of the American Legion was assigned to
each building. .

So that the Recreation Department would know
how many children to provide for, tickets were sold
-—5 cents for each child of elementary school age
and 9 cents for junior and high school students.

Total receipts from tickets were about $600 and
the finance committee raised about $700. Prizes
and trucks were donated and the Recreation De-
partment spent_ about $250 which brought the
total cost to $1,550. There were twenty-four
parties in public schools, two in parochial schools,
four in churches, and three in
private clubs.

As outlined by the Recre—
ation Department, the pur—
pose of the Halloween com-
munity parties is to give the
children the right idea about
Halloween; to afford chil-
dren wholesome, intelligent,

386 HALLOWEEN—~COMMUNITY STYLE

and thoroughly planned enjoyment; to spend a
limited amount of money which in itself will help
to avoid damage which might amount to more than
the expenditure; and to divert children’s minds
from amateur sabotage to healthy amusement.

More than 9,000 children attended parties and
1,000 adults helped either at or before the parties.
This meant that out of the total population of the
city, one person in seven had a part in the project
—a truly community Halloween.

A Patriotic Halloween

ENTRALIA, ILLINOIS, had always celebrated
Halloween with an elaborate parade, but last
year, because of the war and the necessity of using
the money elsewhere, the citizens decided to have
a patriotic Halloween.
They had their parade as
usual but there was a dif—
ference. Instead of elabo-
rate and expensive floats,
the Recreation Department
brought together all the
organizations that had
made a contribution to the
war effort.

The theme of the parade,
“What Centralia is doing
in the war effort,” was
carried out by Red Cross
units, Boy Scouts, Air
Raid Wardens, Auxiliary Police, Auxiliary F ire—
men, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars,
and bands of the grade and high schools.

To help maintain the Halloween spirit, there
followed behind these groups children and adults
in Halloween costumes, competing for prizes
donated by the local theater.

Climax of the celebration came after the parade
at a War Bond Auction Sale during which $1 3 5,000
worth of bonds were sold. Auctioneers worked
from a stage by the old National Bank while clerks
perched atop ladders passed along bids from the
gay crowd. Low cost articles donated by Cen—
tralia merchants were sold with bond pledges serv-
ing as money. One case of Coca-Cola sold for
$75,000 while a picture of the World’s Champion
St. Louis Cards sold for $8,000. Both the civic
clubs and patriotic organizations were solicited in
advance by the Recreation Department to aid in
conducting the bond sale.

NOTICE TO READERS . . .

o If we are not using your correct each child in school. In
postal zone number in mailing

RECREATION to youI please let
e

us know immediat

0 We will appreciate your help in
getting the magazine addressed
correctly and delivered to you

promptly.
0 Thank you.

National Recreation Association

 

"Good, Sate" Parties

VANSTON, ILLINOIS, considers the expenditure
E of $250 for its twelve annual civic Halloween
parties a wise investment in preventing to a large
extent the customary pranks and mischievousness
usually expected when the “goblins” and “witches”

are” turned loose.
The Recreation Department insures the children

of Evanston a good, but safe, time and Police De—
partment records show that juvenile delinquency
on Halloween has been reduced to practically zero.

With the holiday program endorsed by the
Council of Social Agenciesh school boards, the
Evanston Ministerial Association, and other pub-
lic and private agencies, each year sees additional
attendance, larger programs, better facilities, and
lessening of vandalism.

Evanston schools c0—
operate by permitting the
Department to issue an—
nouncement circulars to

most cases, the teachers
not only issue literature
but discuss and encourage
the school children to at-
tend the parties.

y.

Special floodlights are
erected at all of the Cen—
ters, with a view to con—
ducting the program out
of doors. But if weather
prevents, most of the programs are arranged so
that they may be held in gymnasiums.

For several weeks in advance the Department
arranges to collect waste boxes and wood for the
old—fashioned bonfires.

The program begins in the early afternoon and
continues to late, evening. However, it is not until
darkness descends that the goblins and the witches
emerge to express themselves in various ways.

Parades are organized early in the evening and
start on a predetermined route. One or more in—
structors or leaders remain on the playgrounds to
keep things humming for those who assemble
after the parade has moved off. The parade is
usually routed to travel through the immediate
neighborhood, and to cover approximately a half
to three quarters of a mile line of march.

After the return of the group the finalists in the
“best costume” contest are called and presented

( C ontinucd on page 408)

RECREATION

They Call l-ler "Mom"

ORALE OFFICER in the
Coast Guard —
_ that’s Mrs. Alice
Badeau of Bay Head,
New Jersey—or to be
more correct, Lt. ( Alice B. Badeau of the
Coast Guard Reserve. Building a successful rec-
reation service for the “forgotten” servicemen of
the Coast Guard hasn’t been an easy job but it’s
one which Mrs. Badeau has thoroughly enjoyed.

Less than two years ago the men stationed
along the New Jersey Coast were without club-
rooms or amusement facilities of any kind. To-
day there are recreational facilities at thirteen
Coast Guard stations in the Toms River group—
and they’re all supervised by Mrs. Badeau, or
“Mom” as they still call her. When this ener-
getic fifty year old woman first hit on the idea of
“doing something” about these scattered and
lonely groups of men whose beach patrol work is
as dreary as it is important, she turned over the
outdoor shower of her summer home to the Coast
Guard and fitted 'up a dressing room in the base-
ment. Then she converted'her two-car garage into
a clubroom, renting other parking space for her
car.

At her own expense she supplied towels, cigar-
ettes, and refreshments. Later she rented quarters
at Seaside Park and “borrowed” a basement at
Chadwicks as clubrooms for the men at those
stations.

Most of the Coast Guard stations in New Jer-
sey now have their own clubrooms—thanks to the
efforts of Mrs. Badeau. And in all these stations,
the recreation quarters are known as “630 Clubs”
in memory of the first club at 630 East Avenue,
Mrs. Badeau’s summer home in Bay Head.

But Lt. ( Badeau didn’t stop at just pro-
viding clubrooms for the Coast Guard men. Per-
haps her most difficult, but most important, task
was getting other civilians to donate needed sup-
plies. This she accomplished easily and quickly
so that when anything was needed—a piano, radio,
washing machine, or electric iron—it turned up
somewhere. '

More than fulfilling her job as Morale Officer,
she did everything from providing softballs and beer
to making curtains for sick bay. And her activities
often included comforting seamen’s wives, staging

OCTOBER 1943

Coast Guard stations in New Jersey
now have their own recreation rooms,
thanks to a woman morale officer

dances, and arranging for
movies.

In official circles, Mrs.
Badeau prodded Coast
Guard authorities into
doing more for the men. This was a tough job for
officers were in a Quandary as to what was to be
done in the way of entertainment for the great
expansion of Coast Guard forces who were over-
flowing into the tiny stations.

Everything had been tried—but although show-
ers were torn out in some places to make room
for more cots, most of the time there wasn’t even
a chair to sit in.

Ordinarily a USO center would have been set
up under such circumstances but the Coast Guard
men were comparatively few in number, thereby
falling short of USO requirements for a club-
house. Eventually the Coast Guard planned to
build further additions, providing movies and
other facilities for entertainment but in the press
of other offlcial business, many of these “morale
builder” ideas were lost.

What Mrs. Badeau has accomplished in sixteen
months is an outstanding example of how much
can be done for the men in uniform by one inter-
ested and energetic civilian. Her busy schedule of
activities never leaves her without a smile and her
brisk and friendly personality has endeared her to
the Coast Guard men who still call her “Mom,”
in spite of her commission.

So well-loved is Mrs. Badeau that whenever
she drives up to a Coast Guard station from Sea-
side Park to Toms River the men know something
good is about to happen—whether it’s distributing
books and magazines or inviting some of the ser-
vice softball teams to pile into her small sedan for
a ride to or from a game.

Praise of Mrs. Badeau’s work has come from all
quarters—*enlisted men, officers, and government
officials. “When the history of this war is writ-
ten, it will be this sort of generous cooperation that
will stand out,” wrote Governor Charles Edison
of New Jersey. And many other letters express
similar sentiments. v

Although her work keeps her so busy that she
didn’t even have time to go ocean bathing this past
summer, Mrs. Badeau says she’s enjoying herself

(Continued on page 414)

387

G

Wartime Recreation for Britain’s Youth

HEN WAR CAME to Britain
w in 1939 the Board of Edu-

cation undertook respon-
sibility for recreational and edu-
Cational programsfor the
nation’s youth, the large
numbers of fourteen to
eighteen year olds em-
ployed on farms or in factories, in civilian jobs of
all sorts.

The method has been to help private youth serv-
ing agencies supplement their already existing ser-
vices. A National Youth Committee of adults 'in—
terested in young pe0ple aids the Board. Similarly,
local youth committees have been established by
education authorities to advise them on the needs
of young people in the community and the ways
by which new projects might expand the services
offered by existing agencies.

The British people realized that youth must be
given constructive outlets for their energy and
their desire to serve the war effort. Otherwise
they might have become a dissident element in the
community, with their work on the production
lines.less constructive and their future citizenship
impaired. The blackout and the blitz, ‘shortages
of food and other luxuries of life added to the
youth problem. Home life was disrupted. Will-
ing hands of all age groups were needed, but
efforts had to be coordinated and leadership pro-
vided if they were to be of real service.

The first need was for supervised recreation to
relieve and relax the tension of the long day for
the adolescent worker. The existent programs of
most of the national youth organizations were rec-
reational in character although emphasis on ser-
vice and training gave them added significance in
the minds of the participants. These organizations
resembled the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls, Y groups, Boys Clubs, and settlement
houses in this country.

The first problem was to interest young people
not hitherto attracted to these
programs, not naturally ad-
dicted to organized projects.
When schools were Opened
in the evenings as youth cen—
tres, activities were set up

388

By LOUISE MORLEY

Former Conference Secretary
United States Student Assembly

Recreation didn't "take a back seat"
when war came to Britain in

Louise Morley wrote this article after an
extended tour of Britain and survey of

its wartime youth problems. At present
she is back in England with the British
Division of the Office of War Information.

which would appeal to such
young ‘people. Victrolas and
dance records were the first
equipment necessary. A mem-

bership committee was
. elected soon after a cen-

tre was opened to work

with the supervisor,
usually a teacher or social worker, who gave her
evenings for this type of work. This committee
would take on management of a canteen to provide
milk, tea, coffee, and sandwiches at low cost for
the members. Milk is available at these centres
for young war workers, but otherwise it is closely
rationed and provided in sizable quantity only for
children.

A membership committee will soon become in-
terested in other programs. Physical fitness courses
and active sports are arranged. Special courses in
first aid, nutrition, or whatever subject is of in—
terest~.become p0pular. If interest lies in more
specialized work, members go to evening technical
institutes for regular night school work.

Among the more popular new organizations are
the premilitary service cadet corps. Air Training
Corps, Army Cadets, and Sea Cadets are spon-
sored by the Air Ministry, the War Office, and
the Admiralty which provide personnel for train-
ing and uniforms. They are a subtle combination
of postschool education, preinduction training and
a physical fitness campaign.

The Girls Training Corps, a private organiza—
tion with the blessing of the Board of Education,
provides general preservice training for girls, but
participants provide their owrr uniforms and are
not prepared for any particular branch of the ser—
vice. The reason for this is that need and interest
do not necessarily go hand in hand and too many
would be disappointed if trained for one service
and then asked to go into another. The courses
taught in this organization are typically those
which would provide useful information for all
women —— nutrition, first aid,
etc. Drill, dispatch carrying,
and women’s home front
duties are also taught. Local
education authorities cooper-
ate on these programs, help

RECREATION

I939

' ' WARTIME RECREATION FOR BRITAIN’S YOUTH 389

I

. 4  .,.-.. ,, ’.._...-
 g; m. 4!  f?



provide facilities. I was surprised to find so many
adults with arduous daytime responsibilities de-P
voting their evenings to providing leisure—time
activities for young people.

Recreation does not exist in wartime England
because peOple are wasting time. It exists because
a vital and constructive citizenry can survive crises
better, and work harder for the future when pro-
vided with an opportunity to rebuild spiritual and
physical resources in their free time.

Young pe0ple know that. At first they came to
a centre because they were tired, craved some fun,
and had not really found it in roaming the lanes,
perpetually going to the movies, or drinking and
smoking their funds away in a pub. At the centres
their interests widened, their perspective cleared,
and I found it most exciting to talk with all of
them because of their vigor and enthusiasm.

Last year young people between the ages of
sixteen and eighteen were required to register
with the local youth committee. If not participat-
ing in a club or organization, they were inter-
viewed by the committee in an endeavor to find
out how they spent their time, how they liked their
jobs. Many showed signs of listlessness and lack
of interest. All were encouraged to join a club or
organization, were given their choice of many and
no compulsion was involved. Those who had par—

OCTOBER 1943

$4?“ : ' .
J “ "‘ s.  ‘ .
3; what” a i 3;?“ '
l l g a ' g ,  it;    “ 5}
.v V  . - I
, .

 

!_ ‘1“. A‘-: I

Ojifcial British Photograph

ticipated'in programs, no matter what sort, were
more alert: and showed better balance. That is
why Britain at war takes time out for recreation.
Most young people in wartime want to spend
their free time usefully and find this more fun than

feeling that they are left out of things. In a num-

ber of communities youth service squads or corps
have grown up where young people have or-
ganized themselves into service units, work to-
gether to help farmers harvest their creps, weed
their gardens, help housewives with extra mend-
ing, hospitals with routine work, aid in collecting
salvage. A tabulation of work done showed that
seventy-six varieties of useful work were being
performed by these young people.

During vacation, school children go to harvest
camps, where the work is hard and living condi-
tions primitive. But they enjoy it because of the
cooperative spirit which prevails, because they are
working with young pe0ple their own age. Youth
clubs and centres arrange similar work in the
country for their members who have short holi-
days. A new work camp movement has come into
existence under the guidance of prominent edu—
cators, and brings together youth of all classes and
types for short periods of work in the fields, in
forests, or at munitions salvage dumps.

(Continued on page 415)

 

Recreation for the Blind ”

o w L I N G, swimming, roller
B skating, and social dancing

are basic, integral parts of a '
sound recreation program for
the blind. Sighted people find it difficult to accept
the fact that the blind can take part in these nor-
mal activities in which they, the sighted, depend
so completely on vision for participation. They
must imagine unusual blind peOple, unusual adap-
tation for, “How,” they ask in real astonishment,
“can a blind person bowl?”

Bowling is one of the most popular activities in
the recreation program at the New York Associa-
tion for the Blind. The age range of the bowlers
runs from ten to sixteen for the juniors who use
the small, light balls, to seventeen through sixty-
live for the seniors who use regulation balls. The
blind can bowl on any alley. Like sighted bowlers,
they need to familiarize themselves with a new
alley. On their own agency alley, the only adapta—
tion is an easily installed, inexpensive guide bar
above the rails, from where the rails begin to the
foul line. This bar locates the foul line at the end
of the bar, indicates direction straight down the

390

By MAURICE CASE

Director of Men's Recreation
New York Association for the Blind

alley, provides a support on
which to lean while the balls are
rolling back, and at the same
time aids in protecting lingers
from crushing between returning balls as they
collide.

Many blind peOple bowl from a set position at
the foul line with the free hand on the guide bar.
Others take a regular walking or running start.
Each develops his own individual style of sending
the ball down the alley. The pin boy indicates
whether the ball is “too much left” or “too much
right” and then identifies the pins standing after
the lirst throw by calling out their numbered poSi-
tions. These positions e easily fixed in one’s
mind when you kno that the ten pins are ar-
ranged in a triangle.

The head pin in the center of the alley facing
the bowler is the number I pin. The two pins in
the second row, reading from left to right, are
numbers 2 and 3; the three pins in the third row
are numbers 4, 5, and 6; and the four pins in the
last row are numbers 7, 8, 9, and IO. The pin boy
calls out “I, 3, Io” and the bowler knows that he

RECREATION

RECREATION FOR THE BLIND . 391

should aim his second shot off center, slightly to
the left or to the right, dependent upon how he
plays such a shot. The pin boy calls out “7, Io”
and there is an instant howl, because.-this is an
impossible Split shot. To see a blind bowler pick
off a single pin or execute a difficult group shot
gives one a distinct feeling of pleasure; but more
significant is the manner of the proficient blind
bowler who accepts his ability to make the shot
exactly as the sighted bowler does.

Generally speaking, the blind bowl as well as the
sighted. Scores range from an average low of 30
for beginners, to an average high of 150. Scores
from 150 to 200 are frequent and, in a league of
forty blind bowlers at the Lighthouse in New
York City, we have a high score of 256. These
are excellent scdres for any non-professional
bowler. Individual and team competition is keen
and the men like to make small wagers on shots
and games.

Beginners need assistance to help them become
familiar with a bowling alley, the balls, the rules
of the game, scoring, and the technique of holding
the-ball and sending it down the alley. Experi—
enced bowlers require no direction other than that
given by the pin boy. Blackouts, dimouts and
other wartime restrictions have severely affected
retreation attendance everywhere, but bowling at
the Lighthouse continues to be fully attended and
many bowlers ask to be considered for extra prac—
tice sessions.

Roller skating is more p0pular with the younger
blind. Certainly there are collisions and falls, just
as there are collisions and falls on regular rinks.
Sighted and partially sighted partners eliminate
most problems of direction and turning. Many
blind like to skate alone and, by judging distance
and sound, they are able to relax and completely
enjoy this smooth, 'fast rhythmic exercise. The
skates are regular indoor skates which clamp right
on to walking shoes. A hardwood floor approxi-
mately 60 x 60 feet, and skating music are all the
basic requirements. Ropes in the corners, used in
many regular rinks, contribute safety. Outdoor
skating is very popular and the Lighthouse has
used its paved roof for this
purpose.

Vision is not extensively
used in the actual swimming
process, but here again un-
founded generalizations have
ruled out this activity for the
blind. Adaptations are neces-

OCTOBER 1943

In the constant struggle to make peo-
ple aware that the blind are normal.
capable individuals, there has been
too little emphasis on the contribution
of recreation toward self-maintenance
and acceptance by the community.

 

sary only in becoming familiar with the physical
surroundings—lockers, showers and pool; and
with the initial method of instruction which must
be largely individual. Beginners and those new to
the pool require close supervision and only four or
live pupils can be handled easily by one instructor.
It is desirable to have a fairly large shallow water
area with a depth of about two to four feet. Warm
water, at about 75 degrees, is helpful because re-
laxation is emphasized and the men should not
have to move about continuously to prevent
chilling.

Slow underwater strokes like breaststroke, side
stroke, treading water and floating are favored.
Some like the faster overhand stroke, but these are
usually the blind who learned the stroke before
loss of vision. Diving and even the holds and car-
ries in lifesaving are popular with the advanced
swimmers. Water games and swimming contests
make for vigorous competition and some of the
swimmers have gone in for real rough water polo.
In the locker room, as you listen to the men talk,
sing and joke with one another, you realize that
here are wholesome normal individuals who have a
normal capacity to live and enjoy life.

Almost everyone likes to dance and social danc-r '
ing is our most largely attended activity. No
special adaptations are necessary—just pe0ple, a
dance floor, and music. The women bring their
boy friends and relatives, the men their girl
friends and there is a good deal of mixing all
around. To a casual observer, the group is just
like any sighted dance group. Even upon close
observation, there is little that is different as the
couples dance smoothly around the floor, varying
their dance steps and obviously enjoying them-
selves. The younger dancers want the latest, fast-
est swing tunes and their respective antics have
made it desirable to plan special dances for them.

The most immediate physical resultant of loss
of vision is decreased mobility. It takes time to
become familiar even with a specific limited en-
vironment, and guides are usually not readily avail-
able. As a result, the blind cannot get about and
socialize as often as they should. At their dances,
they demonstrate this great
need for companionship and
social intercourse as they
eagerly gather in groups for
exchange of personal greetings,
gossip. and discussion during
intermission periods. Dances

(Continued on page 418)-

Charlotte's uNinety Day Wonder"

ACK IN 1929, after Charlotte, North Carolina,

had succeeded in securing the Confederate

Veterans’ annual reunion, the fact suddenly
dawned on everybody concerned that there was no
building large enough to house and entertain all
the expected veterans. Feverishly, construction
was started on the present Auditorium, which was
completed in exactly ninety days.

To the eerie sounds of the Rebel yell and re-
lived martial memories, the Auditorium was ap—
propriately dedicated. However, after the last of
the bunting and the Confederate flags had been
folded and stored away, the Auditorium was dark-
ened and the doors closed. Suddenly Charlotte’s
recently acquired pride and joy became merely a
“White Elephant,” staggering under a tremen-
dous maintenance cost.

The operation of the armory was vested in the
City Council, and before it could be used by an in-
dividual or group it was necessary to obtain Coun-
cilmanic approval. This was especially true of
free use, since almost all of the activities were of a
commercial nature and a rental basis was strictly
enforced. Consequently the Auditorium, with a

floor space of 3,000 square feet and a seating.

capacity of 2,800 people, was missing its entire
purpose as an important factor in the life of the
community. Occasionally a name band played or
a professional wrestling or boxing match was
arranged. The annual food show and automobile
show were held here, as well as a few concerts and
flower displays. The National Guard drilled in the
building, stored its equipment in the
basement, and held an annual military
ball. But nothing of a real community
program with definite or planned activi-
ties was scheduled. Frankly, it didn’t
“belong.” The all—important elements
of leadership and a program were non—
existent.

Then Came the Servicemen!

The paradoxical saying that “some-
thing good comes out of every war” is
a mild understatement as far as our
Auditorium is concerned, because aéa’p “
result of the war the use of the building -
has completely changed. For all this we
give full credit to the soldiers.

392

By MARY BRACKMAN SILLS

Director of Recreation
Park and Recreation Commission

During maneuver period, when thousands of
soldiers poured in from the field to visit Charlotte,
the problem of mass entertainment and housing
was solved by the use of the Auditorium. With
the activation of two military camps, one seven
miles from Charlotte and another twenty-five miles
away, it became increasingly obvious that addi—
tional soldier recreation facilities would be needed.
The Charlotte Park and Recreation Commission,
recognizing this fact, began immediate plans to
secure the management of the Auditorium. The
City Council voted to relinquish the property to
the Commission, which in turn was able to obtain
a Federal grant for the remodeling of .the ground
floor or “garage” quarters into a well-equipped,
completely modern recreation center for service
men.

The building contains lounge facilities, writing
and music room, a games area, including pool,
shuffleboard and table tennis, a snack bar and
kitchenette, shower and locker room service, a
ladies’ lounge, a powder room, a manager’s office,
and janitorial supply space. There is,
too, a raised dance floor, “night club
style” as the boys say, with a band—

The Auditorium is t

young people of Ct
for dances and soc

 

RECREATION

 

If your community has a "white elephant" on
its hands in the form of what seems to be a
hopelessly unusable buildingI don't be too
discouraged! These are days when many such
buildings are turning into community assets.

stand centered at the right of the HooriCompletely
separate from this area is the State Guard Quar-
ters, which utilized the other half of the same
former “garage.” The Commission has made ex—
tensive 'improvements here, in that showers have
been installed and other repair work done, making
these particular quarters probably the best ar-
ranged and equipped of any in the state.

Leadership and Program

The Commission, in cooperation with the Char—
lotte Defense Recreation Committee, provides four
professional recreation leaders who supervise the
activities and serve as hostesses, thus making it
possible to have the Armory Service Men’s Club
available for use seven days a week from 9 :00 A. M.
until midnight. Dances, parties, chicken suppers,
special Squadron and Battalion parties and a
myriad of other activities are conducted. The
soldiers get a tremendous kick out of it, and as
one boy from the North expressed it, “Gee! It’s

swankier than Roseland and whadda you know,
its all free!”

The girls “ooh” and “ah” over the ladies’ lounge
with its gay chintz draperies and French prints.

A powder room has been created
where a really professional make-up
job can be applied with enough light

igh favor by the
=. who gather here
’rs of many kinds

' o
. 9 .r
 _. 9

t * ' 1 n t .q .t- ‘ '~v ‘
.  - gs 

OCTOBER 1943

 

provided to make the lipstick and rouge camouflage
a real threat! The ladies’ lounge is also used as a
meeting room for club and group activities.

The main floor of the Auditorium is largely just
space, with folding chairs available for ready use.
The ticket offices, hat check room, and concession
stand are located off the lobby entrance. The bal-
cony floor has a large lobby, rest rooms, movie
projection room and a seating capacity of eight
hundred. The stage is opera size with dressing
rooms at either side. The second story back stage

consists of additional rooms, bath, and shower
service, and oflices.

Since the Commission has had supervision of
the Auditorium, it has been used seven days a

’ week with an average of two different groups

using the facilities per day. This does not include
the Servicemen’s Club, as this unit is considered
a separate operation.

A statistical report compiled by the Recreation
Department for a three months period beginning
October 1942 and ending December 1943, dis—

closes the following different activities conducted
at the Auditorium:

Monday nights — Wrestling Matches; Commercial
Activity

Tuesday mornings—Inductees Medical Examinations
Selective Service Board

Tuesday nights—Military Drills
State Guard

Wednesday nights—Square Dances
Recreation Department Activity

Thursday nights—Negro Dances
Recreation Department Activity

‘Friday nights—Musical Programs
Community Groups

Saturday mornings—Children’s Programs
Recreation Department Activity

Saturday nights—Servicemen’s Dances
Recreation Department Activity

Sunday afternoons—Miscellaneous Programs
Community O Groups

The Community, Too, Is Served

The Commission’s policy of en—
couraging community use of the build-

393

394 CHARLOTTE’S “NINETY DAY WONDER”

ing has proved a wise one. The Recreation De-
partment, through its planned activities, carries
out this policy of free wholesome recreation to the
men, women, and children of the community.

A program designed especially for the grammar ‘

school age group was begun during October of
last year. Known as the “Saturday Morning
Playhouse,” these activities consisted of games,
music, and a story hour featuring the “Story
Book Lady.” For the latter activity a ten-foot
beaver board book was constructed, painted in gay
colors and depicting a knight in shining armor,
mounted on a white charger, After appropriate
heraldry, the cover of the book slowly opened and
out stepped the “Story Book Lady” in costume.
The effectiveness of this was evidenced by the
wide‘eyed wonder and suppressed excitement of
the youngsters. A Christmas Party, with a live
Santa Claus and gifts for all culminated this series
of programs.

The Saturday Afternoon Dance Matinee was a
jitterbug’s dream come true! The high school
crowd in their pinafores and saddle shoes danced
the afternoon away to the strains of a juke box.
Once a month an orchestra played for the occa-
sion. These two programs were organized with
local PTA Council endorsement and assistance.

The Wednesday Night Square Dance. has be-

come an institution. Rain or sleet, weather fair or
foul, finds Mom and Pop, plus the youngsters, on
hand to swing their partners. The intrepidity of
the square dancers is an amazing spectacle, even
to an old hand at the “do-si-do’s.” There are
probably no more loyal supporters of a recreation
program than those who follow the “Squares.”

After a mammoth and memorable musical pro-
gram comprising band music, massed choir selec-
tions, and community singing conducted by Augus—
tus D. Zanzig of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, now working with the U. S. Treasury, a
permanent Music Committee was appointed, and a
once—a-month series of combined band concerts
and group singing is being held on the first Sun-
day of each month. Much interest has been shown
by the community in these events, and such enthu—
siasm evidences the value of demonstration pro—
grams such as that conducted by Mr. Zanzig.
These programs are conducted in cooperation with
the Music Department of the city schools. Each
school in which bands, orchestras or choirs are
organized participate in the program.

The Auditorium is used by the Red Cross
Motor Corps for drilling. The Golden Gloves
tournaments are held here, and here the touring
symphony orchestras play. The ballet, the Ink
Spots, and the “Kids Next Door,” have all ap-
peared behind its footlights.

Why Do They Like It?

\Vhy is it popular? First of all because it is
used by many and available to all, Negro as well
as white citizens. This use by Negroes is probably
not unique, but is certainly not a prevalent custom
in the South. Since no facility of this type is avail—
able for Negroes, the Commission has authorized
the use of the Auditorium for Negro recreation.
Dances, basketball games, lodge meetings, quartet
singing contests, name band dances and commence-
ment exercises are only a few of the many
activities.

Much of the success of the entire program for
both white and Negro is due in a large measure to
the excellent accessibility of the building. It is
within walking distance of Independence Square,
the “main stem” of “the crossroads of the Caro—
linas.” Two main city bus lines travel within one

half block of the Auditorium.

Possibly the most notable feature of the Audi-
torium is that it is only a part of a large recreation
unit. Located directly behind the building is the
American Legion Stadium, and across the road
from this are two regulation size baseball dia-
monds, flanked on the left by ten tennis courts.
Below these are Independence Park and Play-
ground, the Rose Garden, andthe War Mothers’
Garden. Since the acquisition of the Auditorium,
the Park and Recreation Commission has com—
plete recreation areas for both indoor and out—
door activities. This is an enviable layout. Char-
lotte knows it, and is justifiably proud.

So, finally, a Convention Hall, built to honor
“A Lost Cause,” is at last reaping the rewards of
a heritage almost lost to the community through the
lack of use of a potentially great recreation center.
We believe that the gentle old men who first
graced the hall of the Auditorium are smiling on
the many happy throngs of their descendants who
are not only helping to rebuild a new world, but
are also experiencing the personal satisfaction of
sharing with others new avenues to fuller living
through participation in the various recreation
programs.

RECREATION

that the general singing of
hymns can be one of the
church’s most potent means of
arousing or intensifying the

IT IS COMMONLY recognized

Singing Congregations
By AUGUSTUS D._ ZANZIG

This article which originally appeared
in the November I942 issue of Music
Clubs Magazine is reprinted here
. by permission of the publishers.

the evenings, but in all the
churches together at eleven
o’clock on Sunday mornings
there are probably more people
gathered together to sing, as

religious attitude, and that it is

also the congregation’s fullest ‘
opportunity for joining together in direct and com-
plete participation in the worship service. Not .so
common is the lesser but still great and urgent
realization that this singing can be a chief means
of building and sustaining the morale of a people
at war. The faith in, and devotion to, a great
cause, the feelirig on everyone’s part that he or she
really belongs and can and will share in the com-
munal effort, and the sound health of mind and
spirit keeping him ready to serve most effectively
and to continue to live as a well-rounded human
being—all these things that we mean by morale

can be aroused and nurtured through such singing.

It is for this reason that the whole nation, it
seems, turned to community singing during the
last World War. Soldiers, sailors, and civilians
alike, singing together, developed a power of de-
votion that made us a nation leading the world in
idealism as well as in armed
prowess.

Left to itself, however, this in-
terest in communal singing has
often lapsed into the trivial, the
weakly sentimental or a peppy
kind of patriotism that is likely to
work only so long as things are
going well. There should be some
rollicking, carefree songs. To lose
our sense of humor would be a
tragic defeat in itself. But now
we have another chance to bring
into the general experience a fuller
measure of the tonic and endur-
ing influence of hearty, meaning—
ful hymn singing that affirms with
full, generous Spirit the good, the
true andthe upstandingly beauti- *
ful and most lovable in our life.

We do well to offer opportunity
for communal singing in other
auditoriunls or smaller places in

 

well as to worship in other
ways, than could be attracted
to a whole week of “sing—songs” in all the other
places.” In many churches, however, the conditions
for congregational singing are so poor as to dis-
courage even the most enthusiastic. And probably
in no church is there not room for improvement.
Now, when every person of right mind wants to
be of the utmost service in the dire crisis con-
fronting the American pe0ple, the minister and
church music leader have an opportunity in this,
their own held, for a very valuable increased ser-
vice to the vital inner well-being or morale of
their pe0ple.

There are many conditions and procedures
which we may consider in our effort to make the
singing of the congregation more general, vital and
inspiring. Of prime importance is a real, active
interest in the possibilities of congregational sing-
ing on the part of ministers, organists and choir

masters, and a complete coopera-
tion between them in seeing that
the congregation has an apprecia-
tive understanding of the true
place of congregational singing in
the church service. At each of
several Sunday morning services
the minister might well give a few
minutes to a well-prepared intro-
duction of a well-chosen hymn,
probably the second of the ser-
vice, Besides an appreciative
reading of the hymn, with per-
‘ haps some comment to heighten
or clarify its meaning, this intro-
duction should consist of a well-
told account of its origin and chief
assoc1at10ns.

A wise choice of hymns will

give us, in addition to hymns of

penitence and personal entreaty,
words and music that turn our

(Continued on page 412)

Print by Ge'd'ge Harmon

OCTOBER 1943'

395

A Home Away from Home

 

By HENRY D. SCHUBERT

Superintendent of Recreation
Dearborn. Michigan

EARBOR N”, MICHIGAN’S new Servicemen’s Cen—
D ter, which is located just three blocks away
from the main intersection of the city, is
equipped to give the boys in service practically
everything they need free of charge. Sailors, sol-
diers, and marines have access to everything from
pool and ping-pong tables to a kitchen and canteen.
The ,idea for the Center developed some time
ago when several public-Spirited organizations got
together and decided that, with the Navy Service
School and the Romulus Air Base close by, there
was room for a servicemen’s center in the city.
The idea sounded like a good one to the Mayor
and the Council so the Center was established by
a city edict and the Department of Recreation,
headed by Henry D. Schubert, was given the job
administering it.
But this was a job for all the citizens of Dear-
born, and thus a Defense Recreation Committee
was set up to include a good cross-section of the

396

city with representatives
from churches, schools,
lodges, labor unions, vet-
erans organizations, ser-
vicemen’s clubs, civic
groups and women’s or-
ganizations.

Next step in the estab-
lishment of a Center was
,procuring the needed
equipment. A call went
out through the local
newspapers for coffee
urns, pots and pans, a
gas range and electric
stove, piano, victrola,
radio, pictures, clocks,
lamps, dishes, cups,
glasses, knives, and forks,
drapes and curtains, car—
pets, linoleums and rugs,
chairs, tables, bookcases,
coat racks, writing tables,
blotter pads and table
games. And it didn’t take long for the equipment.
to start pouring in.

\Vhen the old Moose Hall, which was selected
as the site of the Center, was finally open for
servicemen, it boasted a large lounge, pool and
ping-pong room, stage, dressing and pressing
room, visitors’ room, library, kitchen and canteen,
and an information desk where contacts are made
and where a file of available rooms are kept for
servicemen’s wives, parents, and relatives.

In the Allied Nation’s Lounge there are writing
tables, checkers, chess, cards, and jig-saw”puzzles.
The walls are lined with pictures of Allied Na-
tion’s aircraft and a collection of national songs
of the Allies is on exhibition. In the center of the .
room is a group of miniature silk flags of the
Allied Nations.

A modern and sanitary kitchen has "a Specially
designed snack bar, and the canteen is equipped
with modern stainless tables and chrome and
maple chairs, Various organizations and cooper-
ating groups have furnished these rooms, and the
city, through the Department of Public \Vorks,
provided the painters, carpenters, mechanics, and
plumbers. '

Photo by N madam-lei

RECREATION

A HOME AWAY FROM HOME 397

Everything—lunches at the
snack bar, writing paper, post
cards, cigarettes, candy—is
served free to the men in
uniform.

Each afternoon and eve—
ning a different organization
of women takes over the kitchen and snack bar to
serve the boys with sandwiches, cakes, pies, coffee,
milk, lemonade, ice cream, and other delicacies,
without cost. Serving in the kitchen and canteen
0r welcoming the servicemen any night of the
week can be found members of the Marine Corps
League Auxiliary who are wives and mothers of
Marines, Navy Mothers, the Oxfordettes, or
members of the MOMS (Mothers of Men in the
Service).

Junior Hostesses are on duty every day under
the direction of Senior Hostesses chosen by a
special committee. Before approval of Junior and
Senior Hostesses is made, applications are filed
with a Hostess Committee in writing, including a
photograph, a written letter of recommendation
from either the applicant’s pastor, employer, school
or college principal, together with two other ref—
erences.

Professional pianists have volunteered to appear
nightly for the boys when they gather around the
piano for singing. A combination dressing and
pressing room has
been set up for the
professional and
amateur talent
who appear at the
Sunday evening
Victory Hours:
H e r e i r o n in g
boards and elec-
tric irons are also
available for press-

It's coffee and
rolls "on the
house" when
the women of
Dearborn take
over the kitchen

and snack'bar
at the Center

OCTOBER 1943

Cooperation was the keynote when the
citizens of Dearborn undertook to set
up their Servicemen's Center. Among
those who volunteered to help were the
girls in the Eight B-3 class in home
economics at Lowrey School who cut and
sewed the draperies for the Center.

ing the clothes of soldiers and
sailors. Buttons and chevrons
are sewed on uniforms by the
Junior Hostesses. Music is
furnished by a juke box,
radios, phonographs and re-
cording machines.

Every Sunday evening a Victory Hour is held,
with the entire seating of the lounge rearranged
and additional folding chairs placed so the boys
and Junior Hostesses may gather in front of the
stage to join in a session of community singing
lasting twenty or thirty minutes. This is followed
by movies, instrumental soloists, vocalists, comedi-
ans, short sketches, tap dancers, and professional
acts, closing with spontaneous entertainment pro-
vided by soldiers and sailors drawn from the
audience.

The Servicemen’s Club rooms are open every
day and evening. Plans for this past summer in-
cluded hikes, picnics with civic and church or-
ganizations, participation by the boys on the play-
grounds and in various sports, and visits _to Henry
Ford’s Greenfield Village and the Edison Institute.

Through the Recreation. Department, the city of
Dearborn pays for the rent, light, heat, telephone,
and janitorial services. A director who is on duty
daily has been employed through civil service and

(Continued on page 413)

 

Photo by Nowdorski

Fun for Thanksgiving

 

Thanksgiving Harvest

Home Party should be
written on fruit or vegetable
cut-outs made from con- 3+ on
struction paper. For decora-
tions, sheaves of grain and
ears of corn are ideal. When
hunting corn, try to find some cars with the red
and black grains. Gourds of various sizes and
shapes can be strung to hang in corners or from
the doorways. They are also most attractive in
such containers as baskets, copper or brass bowls.
If gourds are not available, fruit and vegetables
may be substituted.

The table centerpiece should be a flat basket
filled with either gourds, fruits or vegetables. Place
ears of corn around the base to simulate rays of
light going out from the basket. If it can be
secured, intersperse grain around them, or make
holders by cutting a hole the proper size in the
side of an ear of com. If the corn is used, place a
small object under each side of the ear to prevent
it from rolling.

As for favors, there may be necklaces or brace-
lets of corn for the women. If you are using new
com a. darning needle can readily be run through
each grain. If the corn is too hard, soak it in
water for a short time and it will soften up suf-
hciently to use. String one or two strands for
each guest.

String candy corn for each guest, both men and
women, and let them eat it off, instead of serving
candy in nut cups. For the men a corn-cob pipe
should be just the thing. A can of tobacco from
which they can fill their pipes will provide some
interesting sidelights.

And now for the games!

INVITATIONS for your

Harvest Jollity. The first player starts with the
simple word, "‘Ha”; the second says, “Ha, ha,”
the third, “Ha, ha, ha” and so on, each in turn
adding one more “Ha” to the chain. In every case,
however, the “Ha, ha’s” must be uttered with ex-
treme seriousness, for anyone who laughs as he
speaks his piece must drop out of the game. This
usually does not take long.

Harvest Home Singing. Each individual receives
the name of a song and proceeds to hum it loudly

398

From the I942 Thanksgiving Bulletin of
the Department of Public Recreation in
DecaturI Illinoisl comes this idea for a
Harvest Home Thanksgiving Party. Try
your family this year. and invite
a couple of servicemen to ioin the fun.

 

as he tours the room listen-
ing for kindred tunes. When
he locates others with the
same melody, they band to-
gether as a group. Use-as
many songs as you wish,
but be sure the groups are
equally divided. When all
have been gathered into groups have each group
sing their songs.

Old-Fashioned Charades. The players are divided

into four groups, each of which selects a leader.
Each group thinks up a good hard word to drama-
tize and rehearses scenes to represent each sylla-
ble and then the entire word. The audience is in-
formed of the number of syllables and also the
type of word, whether verb, proper noun, excla-
mation, etc. The scenes follow in succession, an-
nounced individually by the leader so the onlook-
ers can gather their wits between syllables.

After the common words are worn out in cha-
rades, limit the vocabulary to Thanksgiving terms,
or combine with a bit of geography and dramatize
the names of states and cities. Suggested words
are:
pumpkin (pump-kin)
Pilgrim (pill-grim)
doughnut (do-nut)

Mayflower (May-flower)
banana (ban-Anna)

Thanksgiving (Thanks-
giving) a

chicken (chick-in)

moccasin (mock-a-sin)

Gobbling Handkerchief. Players are seated in'a
circle with hands clasped. The leader selects one
person to be his assistant and sends him from the
room. He then rolls a handkerchief into a round
ball and conceals it in some player’s hand. When
this is done, he joins the circle, recalls his assist-
ant and says to him, “Someone here has the hand- .
kerchief. Listen over the clasped hands of each
person until you find it. When you have reached
the right place, you will hear the handkerchief
gobble like a turkey.”

While the helper is bending over to listen to
each player’s hands, he has his eyes surreptitiously

.lixed on the foot of the leader who has his knees

crossed. When the helper reaches the right per—
son the leader swings his foot 'very gently. The
object of the game, of course, is to find out how
the helper locates the handkerchief.

RECREATION

-.

FUN FOR THANKSGIVING 399

Turkey Driving Relay. There are four on each
team. The first man on the team holds a long
turkey feather. At the word “go” he throws the
feather, javelin style, aiming it in the direction of
the finishing line at the other end of the hall. As
soon as the feather comes to earth he runs to it,
picks it up and throws it again. When the feather
has crossed the finshing line he runs back to his
team and hands the feather to the next in line.
who must repeat the performance until the feather
has crossed the line. The team _to finish first wins.

Thanksgiving Menu. Can you guess the things
on the Thanksgiving menu from the following
poem?

Oh, Carrie had some rows of cans
Upon her pantry shelf;

They really held the strangest things,
Just figure for yourself—

1. A thing unpleasant on your toe (Corn)
2. A man of Bible time (Ham)

3. A tree plus fruit (Pineapple)

4. The verb to crush (Squash)

Now heed this helpful rhyme.
5. The plural of a consonant (Peas)
6. And couples in a can (Pears) "
7. A cereal with apartments, too, (Mushrooms)
As Carrie’s shelf you scan. m
8. Dilemmas, yes, in parlance plain (Pickles)
9. And then a close packed throng (Jam)
10. Short steady blows (Beets)
11. And your locale,
When you are in the wrong (Soup)
12. Ashoeplus relatives
is here (Pumpkin)
’Tis sometimes used
for pies.
Now look at Carrie’s
rows of cans
And guess them if
you’re wise.

  

To Be or Knot to Be.
Give each leader a ball
of string. At a signal the
leader ties end of string
to own left wrist, wraps
it once around his right
wrist and passes ball on.
Each player in turn
must wrap it once
around each wrist and
pass to next player. End
player must raise the
ball high in the air with
both hands before start-
ing to unwrap string
from wrist and reroll.

W
a;
la?

OCTOBER 1943

THINGS WE THANK YOU FOR

When first player receives rewound ball back and
unties string from his own left wrist, entire team
raises hands and shouts. Team which shouts
first wins.

Apple Race. Arrange participants in groups of
four and number players in each group. At the
starting signal one in each group pares an apple,
number two quarters it, number three cuts out the
seeds and number four eats it and then whistles or
sings. Thereupon number two starts paring a
second apple, number three quarters, number four
cuts out seeds and number one eats it. Continue
until all four have eaten. First team having final
player to whistle or sing after eating apple wins.

Harvest Home Farm Sale. Write the names of
farm animals and implements on slips of paper
and give one to each player. Choose one player to
be the Auctioneer. Place chairs in a circle for
each player except the Auctioneer, and all stand
inside of the circle of chairs.

The Auctioneer takes one of the slips, reads the
name of the article he is about to sell and gives
the usual description of the property. For in-
stance, the word “wagons” was given to a girl.
The Auctioneer said, “Now here is a good wagon,
almost new. It has four good wheels and a good
tongue. Now look at the paint. How much am I
offered for this fine wagon?” The bidding is lively,
and when the Auctioneer says “Sold” all scramble
for a seat. The one left
standing becomes the
Auctioneer. A lot of fun
can be had selling the
mule, or the farm scales,
the pig trough, etc. The
sale is over when all of
the property is sold
once.

   

 

Going Home from the
Festival. Story: Once
upon a time, three fond
couples, on returning
from a Harvest Festi-
val, found the toll bridge
closed and the only
means of crossing the
river was in a rowboat,
-which would carry but
two at a time. All of the
party could row equally
well, but each man was

(Continued on page 418)

3.3
a
5‘

Print by Gedge Harmon

What They Say About Recreation

quest for light, it will be found that truth is

still mightier than the sword. Because out
of all the welter of human carnage and human sor-
row and human weal, the one great indestructible
thing that will always live is a sound idea.”—
General Douglas M acArthnr.

" a ND IN THE END, through the long ages of our

“A toast to the health and safety of the worker!
May he live long, happily, and well. May he pro-
duce the goods we all need so badly. May he, with
his well-earned wages, support the home he loves.
May he be permitted a bit of fun and enjoyment,
being not too tired to enjoy it, May he keep his
loving wife and family about him. May he live
long and bask in the memory of work well done.”
———'From the Monthly Bulletin of the Indiana State

Board of Health, January 1943.

“In this critical hour in our own and the world’s

history, we, as Americans, need more than arma- ..

ments and armies to make safe our democracy. We
need a secure bond of understanding among all
citizens, and even more, the practice of brother-
hood and of willing cooperation among Americans
of every creed and racial origin.”—Ida f. Rosen-
field in Who Are We of the United States?

“At a time when vigorous recreative sports and
hobbies are needed to promote health and emo-
tional stability among our children, our schools
are, in too many instances, teaching the three R’s
and totally disregarding the fourth and most im-
portant R, Recreation.”——Eloyd R. Eastwood.

“If it be our duty to do what we can to keep up
the morale of our lighting men, it certainly is no
less our duty with respect to the generation of
children for whose right to live in a decent world
these men are lighting.”——Dessa M. Fultz in an

article in The Physical Educator, January 1943.

“Music has played an important part in every
war in history. It is even more vital for victory in
this war which must be won twice—once on the
home production front, then again on the far-flung
battle fronts.”—Joseph E. Maddy.

“Every man who works long hours indoors in
the excitement and strain of war—whose muscles
are inactive while his nerves are keyed to highest

400

pitch—needs proper exercise and relaxation more
than ever before. It’s a patriotic obligation. The
war must be prosecuted in all its diversilied
branches. But the Home Front, too, must be kept
strong and as normal as possible.”—-From To
Strengthen the Sinews That Keep Men Free.

“Now is the time for the American people to
match the varied wealth of their great resources,
and the tremendous military potential of their men
and their machines, with a moral and educational
program of equal stature.”——From Education and
the People’s Peace.

“The hopes and ideals of every nation are ex-
pressed and constantly revivilied through the festi-

‘vals and commemorative ceremonies which have

national significance for its people. Patriotic ob-
servances help to achieve unity in thought and
feeling, and to intensify a shared devotion to our
American tradition.”—From Living Democracy in
Secondary Schools.

“Force without intelligence, without capacity -to
sustain the arts of civilization, often defeats its own
ends.” — Charles A. Beard in Journal of Adult

Education.

“If these war days prompt us to develop our
talents for music, play, and drama, then, it is cer-
tain, they will continue after the war, just as group
singing was stimulated during and after World
War I. Then these arts will assume their proper
place and be given due prominence in our social
life.”—K. D. Scott in Games and Songs in War-

time, June 1943.

“The essentials to morale in any given situation
are goal, sense of competence, belongingness, con—
lidence in leadership, and positive action.”—From
Physical Education for Girls by Rosalind Cassidy
and Hilda C lute Kozinan.

“I lirme believe that our strongest national de-
fense is our inner strength—our determination to
deserve self-government, a love of liberty deeply
ingrained in a democratic people who have learned
through home rule to solve their own problems.
Let us fortify this democracy with individual de-
votion which nothing will be able to undermine.”
—W. A. S tickley, Jr., President, League of Min-

nesota Municipalities.

RECREATION

Children’s Book Week

HE 1943 celebration of

Children’s Book Week

will be the twenty-
fifth observance of this
special week, which was
inaugurated in May 1919, by the American Book—
sellers’ Association. In the summer of that year
the Children’s Division of the American Library
Association gave its official Sponsorship to the
project; other organizations soon gave their sup-
port, and thousands of
schools accepted Book
Week as a regular part
of the year’s activities.

During Book Week’s
first quarter of a century
a remarkable change in
attitudes toward chil-
dren’s books has taken
place. New authors have
contributed distinguished
works of creative imagi-
nation to children’s liter—
ature. Book designers
and illustrators have
made children’s books in
America the most beau—
tiful in the world. The
public has become far
more discerning and in—
telligent in selecting
books. Communities have
become aware of the im-
portance of public reading fa—
cilities for children and, most
. important of all, countless
thousands of young pe0ple have
been stimulated and inspired
by Book Week celebrations to
a lifelong appreciation of the
pleasures of reading and owning books.

At a time when normal conditions of “growing
up” have been disrupted, Children’s Book Week
will continue to stress the values of the intelligent
and happy individual growth which is the basis of
a democratic society. It is impossible to isolate
children from the facts of war, but books can prove
a stabilizing influence. Books about our institu-
tions and the men who founded them inspire an

0019333 1943

 30th

the simplicity

"Build the- Future with Books" is
the theme of this year's BookWeek
November l4-20l I943

      

WEEK—1943
noVEMBER niezof '

The theme for Book Week in I943 has
been sympathetically interpreted in
this attractive poster designed by

Elizabeth Orton Jones. It reflects
and

with which children accept books.

appreciation of our great
heritage. Books about other
lands encourage an under-
standing and respect for
members of the nations
and races of our world. Stories of imagination and
beauty help to counterbalance the horrors of war

. and inSpire the child with the sense of faith, cour-

age, and fair play~so essential for the better world
toward which we strive.

The enthusiastic re-
sponse to the first 1943
Book Week announce—
ments indicates that more
organizations than ever
plan to participate this
year. The rapidly increas-
ing national interest in
books will make possible
important radio broad-
casts. One of the most
significant aspects is
found in the reports of
librarians and booksellers
who write that young
pe0ple are asking for
books as never before.

At national headquar-
ters of Children’s Book
Week at 62 West 45th
Street, New York City,
material is available for
 the use of interested
groups. The Book Week pos-
ter in full color, measuring 16
by 19 inches, may be secured
at 25 cents. A manual of sug—
gestions was issued 'free of
charge on September Ist. Mats
for local newspapers have been
designed with a reproduction of the poster and
three separate stories of varying length to permit
elasticity in placing copy. All three mats are avail-
able in a set at 50 cents.

The following suggestions for observing Book
Week which have come from headquarters may be
adapted to the recreation program:

For Teachers and School Librarians. Plan aSSem-

(Continued on page 416)

    

~
I
v,

understanding

401

Table Soccer or "Harblo"

By Lt. SAMUEL F. ,HARBY, USNR.

HE WAR EMERGENCY has suddenly put the
Tspotlight of interest on individual and dual

games of a competitive nature which small
groups can play with simple equipment made from
materials not on the priorities list.

Table Soccer, or “Harblo,” meets these require-
ments. It has the further advantage of being
adaptable to small indoor Spaces such as the play-
room in your basement or the recreation halls of
camps and servicemen’s centers. The game may
also be played on trains or ships. It is already
being played in many
parts ,of the country but
has not yet received the
attention it deserves.
The author makes no
claim to originality in
presenting Table Soccer
here. He has modihed
the rules slightly and
designed a new board
which is inexpensive
and easy to construct.

The game is set up
for four people and requires only about half as
much room as ping-pong. It is a very fast game
and provides opportunity for the development of
considerable skill.
shows a completed box set which may be placed
on an ordinary card table for play. Note that the
box is laid out like a miniature soccer held in that
there are eleven clothespins on each side, corre-
sponding to the eleven men on a soccer team. The
rods with clothespins fastened to them represent
the lines of players. The rod nearest the center is
the forward line with five men, next is the half-
back line of three men. then the two fullbacks, and
finally the goalie.

Rods and clothespins are painted black and white
as indicated in Figure I. This is done to designate
sides or teams. Thus, the black rods indicate one
team and the white rods the opposing side. Note,
however, that these alternate in such a way that
defensive lines are always adjacent to offensive
lines of players. This is different from an actual
soccer game but the arrangement makes possible
lively competition and quick exchanges of the ball.

402

The accompanying picture,

»

 

An ordinary ping-pong ball may be used. It is
thrown in at center to start each period of play by
the referee or one of the players.

Two players stand on each side of the table and
make up one team. Those on one side handle the
black rods and those on the other the white. Two
movements are possible: (I) spinning the rods
with thumb and forefinger so that the clothespins
rotate and slap the ball toward the goal at the end
of the held, and (2) sliding the rod crosswise so
that the men cover the field laterally. It is un—
necessary to move the
table or box. Scores are
made by knocking the
ball through the small
opening at each end of
the set. Every goal
counts, no matter which
team hits the ball, and
frequently players will
unintentionally score
for their opponents.

The goals are also
marked black or white
(see Figure I). The teammate nearest the goal is
a defensive player and operates the goalie rod (one
pin) with his right hand—and the halfback rod
(three pins) with his left. The other teammate is
an offensive player. He operates the forward line
(five pins) with his left hand, and the fullbacks
(two pins) with his right. Either player may
score but it is, of course, more difficult for the
defensive player since he has to shoot through two
lines of Opponents, not to mention two lines of his
own men.

When the ball is thrown in at center to begin
play, it is “live” as soon as it touches the board.
Both forward lines swing into action, and luck
largely determines which direction the ball will go.
If it goes toward the goal your team is defending,
your team’s play becomes defensive immediately,
though it is possible to drive the ball back to the
other end 'of the field by a quick spin. When the
ball is in your Opponent’s territory, your defensive
pins are all down in a vertical position to prevent
a sudden drive through toward your goal, but
when the defensive man of either team 'gets the

, RECREATION

TABLE SOCCER OR “HARBLO”

ball, the offensive paddles

 

403

Instructions for Building

 

N
should be up in a horizontal w Harblo Set

\
\

position, clearing the field

so far as possible for a long

shot through to goal. If w
Clothespins get twisted out
of place, you must straighten
them at your own risk with—
out stopping play.

The corners of the box
are banked to roll back any n
ball which might get beyond
reach of the Clothespins. If
no banks are provided, or if
the ball should get stuck be—
yond reach anywhere on the.

    
   
 

 

'I' T09 View

n B I
(yth

Figure I

board, the nearest player is permitted to blow it

back into circulation. When a ball is knocked

out

/

36" ———"'l:

. . . . 31-
of the box, it IS put into play at center, as in the
beginning of the game.

Each goal shot counts one point and the game
is fifteen. In order to win, the leading side must
be ahead by at least two points.
General Instructions for Playing
1. Hold the rod in your finger tips, not in the
palm of your hand.
2. Spin the rod and pins as you strike the ball,
and continue to spin if necessary to intercept
an attack.
_|-<-———- 1i" ———>-|
W 5'
F3"
6
T ———-;——.‘_'-__’.'_‘—'5_' I
J. L.
[e——————— 35’" ——————>|
Figure 2

o u I 7.

3. Keep pins down in vertical or block position
when your opponents have the ball, and in
horizontal or open position when your partner
has it.

4. Space defensive Clothespin-men over the field 8-

to cover it as well as possible. It is especially
important to keep your goalie in front of the
goal, except when drawn aside by a ball in the
end corner.

OCTOBER 1943

/

I. Note the dimensions in
Figures I and 2.

2. Boards 3%” x 5A” cut
5 to proper length are used

I for the side walls, and
%” round doweling for

 

B the rods. Thirty-six
inches is the standard
b length for these rods.

3. Make sure the inside
dimension lengthwise is
38”. This means fitting
the end boards over the

side boards when assembling the box frame.

The bottom is made of %” ply wood or card-
board, and the corner banks can be made from

cigar boxes or orange crates. To make the
corner banks, take the top and bottom from a
cigar box, and cut two squares approximately
5%” on a side. Then divide these diagonally
across to produce four right triangles (5%” x
5%” x 7%”). Bevel the long edge, and drive
a 1%” brad in perpendicularly at the right angle
corner. This provides a bank for each corner
of your set. The beveled long edge {its flush
with the bottom board and can be fastened
down securely with scotch tape. The right
angle corner will be raised approximately V2”,
and it can be held in place by another brad
driven in the side wall just above it.

ClotheSpins are the two-piece steel spring
variety (3” long).

The holes through which rods are to be placed
should be bored with a brace and bit, slightly
larger than V2” in diameter, to permit the rod
to turn easily and slide back and forth without
sticking. (See Figure 2.) A little wax on the
rods will also help prevent sticking.

If you have a smooth top table larger than the
dimensions of the set, it is unnecessary to have
a bottom on the box. The corners of the set
can be braced with brackets and the corner
banks made detachable.

The Clothespins are easily removed, so that
rods can be taken out for storing, or replace-
ment when bent or broken. If the Clothespins
slide around the rods too much during play,

(Continued on page 412)

Moonlight and Roses

By MILDRED MASON

HE MOONLIGHT and

Roses Dance, held

recently at the New-
ark, New York, Com-
munity Center, marked
a new high in Wayne
County community en—
terprise and coopera-
tive entertainment. The
dance is held each year
during the Festival of
Roses but this is the
first year in which the
Community Center was
in complete charge of
the event.

Feature of the eve- -
ning was the annual
selection and crowning
of Newark’s Rose
Queen. As in previous
years, out - of — town
judges made the selec—
tion. This diplomatic
procedure has proved
very helpful.

The setting for the Queen and her court was the
result of three days and three nights of hard work
on the part of N ewark’s high school age boys and
girls. In the end, the center’s gym was success-
fully and spectacularly transformed into a huge
rose bower.

The ballroom was garlanded with roses, del-
phinium and evergreen. Blue and white stream-
ers hung low from the rafters providing a pavilion
atmosphere. The throne and surrounding court
overlooked the dance floor which was a space set
off for dancing from the rest of the room by a
rustic white picket fence. Outside the fence, the
audience sat in garden chairs and at tables in typi-
cal garden surroundings. The greensward under-
foot did much to lend reality to the picture.

The throne itself stood beneath the Moonlight
and Roses Crest—and was bedecked with green.
Seats of honor were arranged at the sides and foot
of the throne.

The Queen made her entrance about the middle

404

 

of the evening. The
lights were dimmed and
music especially planned
for the parade of beauty
set the tempo. Spot—
lights were centered on
a rose-trellised arbor at

the center of the stage.

The queen contest-
ants, aged sixteen to
twenty, had for their
court of honor a younger
group of fourteen and
sixteen year olds. These
young attendants, in the
best daisy-chain tradi—
tion, proceeded to lay
their imaginary rose-
carpet for the entrance
of the queen and the
contestants. They car-
ried a rose-chain on
their shoulders as they
emerged from the arbor
and made their way
across the stage and
dance floor to the throne at the left of the hall.

When the leaders had reached the throne, all
the girls lowered their chain and laid it down, car-
pet-fashion, as the path for the queen’s entrance.

After the junior court came the contestants,
who assembled about the steps at the foot of the
throne. At last the trumpets announced the com-
ing of the queen—crowned with Pinoccio roses
and carrying a scepter made of one huge golden
rose. She wore the rose-festooned cape, a tradi-
tional part of her costume, whose immense train
was borne by two pages.

A simple crowning ceremony was performed, in
which the 1942 queen placed her crown on the
head of the 1943 winner, The abdicating queen
was then presented with a large bouquet of roses
by her successor and proceeded to take her seat at
the new queen’s right.

During the tableau which followed the explod—
ing of photo-flash bulbs and the clicking of camera

( C ontiiiued on page 417)
r” RECREATION

School Music and the Community

MAJOR PRACTICAL trend
A in our educational

practice is toward
richer and more active reci-
procal relationships with the
local community. American
education is set up on what
is by implication a commu-
nity basis, even though the
average school district is
not an effective functional
human or social grouping.
More and more this community aspect of our en-
terprise is coming to the fore. As we are coming
to see it, the school should be a radiating center
of community influence and community better-
ment. The local social group should be a better
place in which to live, throughout the entire text-
ure of its affairs, because of the activities of its
school. This implies no dualism, no distinction
between educational and social responsibilities, for
the young child is best and most effectively edu—
cated by an institution which helps him as early as
possible to appreciate the meaning, responsibili-
ties, and opportunities of junior citizenship.

Here is yet another direction in which our music
programs ought to move if they are to meet the
future. ‘Music is not something which ought to be
kept within the school classroom, or even within
the school building. The school, in bringing music
to the children of the community, at the same
time should be helping those children to bring
music to the community. This means concerts,
pageants, festivals, music for special occasions. But
it means a great deal more. Is school music get-
ting into the homes? Are songs and pieces learned
in school sung in the homes? Are compositions
heard in the school listened to and enjoyed in the
home? Does school music affect the music in the
local churches? Are informal uses of music grow-
ing out of the school program? If not, something
is wrong—wrong with the materials, wrong with
the practices, wrong with the whole educational
slant and direction. A program of music educa-
tion which, as the years pass, is not learning more
and more effectively to function in, for, and with
the local community is a program which is retro-
gressing. The workers in it are cutting the ground

OCTOBER 1943

By JAMES L. MURSELL

Through the courtesy of the Music Educa-

tors Journal we are presenting a few ex-
tracts from a significant address given by
-Mr. Mursell at the Eastern Music Edu-
cators Wartime Institute held in Roches-
terl New York. March 20-23. I943. Recre-
ation workers will welcome the emphasis
placed on the community values of music.

 

from under their own feet.
Most assuredly they are not
in the way toward inherit-
ing the expanding future
which surely should be theirs.

Once more I submit to
you that in a democratically
oriented and aimed educa-
tion music can have a major
part to play. Partly this is
because of the extraordinary
universality of its appeal and the diverse uses to
which it can be put. Music is one of those ele-
ments of human culture which really can reach
and powerfully affect almost everybody, from the
potential gangster to the potential saint; from the
ill-nourished child to the southern cotton picker to
the wealthy scion of Oak Park, Illinois. It has a
prodigious natural penetrating power. But also
music is particularly adaptable to the uses of a
democratic education because it can provide ex-
periences so rich and convincing of what free and
orderly association and dealing with one’s fellows
really means.

Here you can see what teaching music in terms
of the democratic ideal really means. It does not
merely mean a hospitable repertoire—one which
includes the works of Mendelssohn, Wagner,
Verdi, and Shostakovitch. It means making the
whole teaching and learning of the art rich with the
human values of freedom. It means abandoning
the Fascist-like routines of the professional sym-
phony orchestra in our high school instrumental
programs and substituting something more worthy
of a democratic education. It means making the
group performance of music an experience of
true cooperative endeavor to which everyone
makes his own individual contribution in a spirit
of ordered freedom. It means making our music
periods and our music classes experiences in which
each individual finds opportunities for his own
initiative and encouragement to display it, and yet
uses it for the benefit of all. It means providing
chances for special skill and talent to exhibit them-
selves, not for display, but for the pleasure of
others and for the encouragement of such skill and

(Continued on page 413)
405

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

" EEKEEPING as a Hobby,” by Kyle On-

stott. Harper and Brothers, New York
City. 137 pp, $2.00. Hobbies sometimes become
a profession.

Birds, Migratory Game. The management of
wildlife is in the hands of the Fish and \Vildlife
Service. In Wildlife Leaflet 225, Sept., 1942, is a
nine page report about ducks, woodcock, snipe,
snails. and doves. You do not have to be a gun-
ner to be interested in accurate information con-

cerning the future of migratory game birds. In '

fact, the future of this American sport afield may
be with the camera and field glasses.

Fabre, Jean Henri. “The Insect Man,” by
Eleanor Doorly, D. Appleton—Century, New York
City. 1937. 197 pp. Wood cuts. A fine biography
for younger folks.

“Famous Inventors for Boys and Girls,” by
Irmengarde Eberle. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York City. 130 pp. illus. $2.00. Short bi-
ographies of fourteen major scientists.

“Ferns, Guide to Eastern,” by Edgar T. \Nherry.
Science Press, Lancaster, Pa. Second edition. 252
pp., illus. $1.00.

“Fire Prevention Education.” Committee for Fire
Prevention Education, National Board of Fire
Underwriters, New York. 355 pp., illus. Single
c0pies, 85 cents; 10 to 50 copies, 50 cents; special
rates on quantity orders.

Forest Fires. “Flaming Forest,” by Montgom-
ery M. Atwater, Little, Brown and Company,
Boston, Mass. 1941. $1.75. A story of the hero-
ism of the Fire Ranger Service.

“How Illiracles Abound,” by Bertha Stevens.
John Day C0., New York City. 200 pp., illus.
$2.50. Juveniles will benefit from this book.

H mnane Education. Eight colored posters,

17 x 22, on kindness to animals. 25 cents. Ameri-
can Humane Association, 13 5 Washington Avenue,

Albany, N. Y.

Recreational Resources are either natural or
artificial. This column has to do with the first.
Nature has given us rich natural resources in
rivers, lakes, sea coast, mountains, marshes, plains,
forests, and wild life. Some think that we have
more than our share. Our government is engaged

406

in recreational planning. The National Park Ser—
vice, the Forest Service, the Fish and Wildlife
Service and other Federal‘Departments make nat-
ural resources for recreation available. The Nature-
gram column attempts to put these “goods” on the
market as soon as they are provided. Since these
resources for nature recreation are maintained by
public taxation they should be used and enjoyed
by the people.

One of the chief concerns of the administrators
of public recreation is to see that American families
benefft from these natural resources whether they
own automobiles or not, yes, even if they do not
have vacations or daylight hours off. If man has
interfered with nature by building “concentration
camps” which crowd 16,000 to the acre in some
cities or in some industries, the responsibility is
none the less. This question cannot always be left
to nature phi1050phers and nature poets. It must
be clearly understood by recreation technicians.
Nature resources cannot be put into a program
without some effort on the part of administrators.

Rochester Museum, Bausch Hall of Science and
History. Erected through the gift of Edward
Bausch, the microscopist. The cornerstone was
laid on April 23, 1941, by Dr. Robert A. Millikan.
“Dedicated to a Better Understanding of the Laws

of Nature and Cultural Achievements of Man-
kind.” '

Say, Thomas (1787-1834). “Father of Ameri-
can Descriptive Entomology.” Attended the
Friends School, Philadelphia, as did his father and
grandfather. Early hobby of collecting butterflies
and beetles. In War of 1812 he volunteered. A
charter member of the Academy of Natural Sci-
ences, he is said to have slept on the floor beneath ‘
the skeleton of the horse and to have kept his food
expenses down to 12 cents per day. His zeal led to
his being chosen to present invertebrates in popular
style, and by 1822 he was elected Professor of
Natural History at the University of Pennsylvania.
As zoologist on Major Stephen H. Long’s Expe-
dition to the West, he received $2.00 a day.

His “American Entomology,” three volumes,
and “American Conchology,” seven volumes, are
monuments. As superintendent of “literature and

(Continued on page 408)
RECREATION

WORLD AT
PLAY . . .

 

H A L L o w E E N
parties sponsored
by the Recreation
Department of
Kansas,City, Missouri, have been very suc-
cessful, and thousands of children have
taken part in them. Last year’s Halloween
party at the municipal auditorium was at-
tended by over 5,000 children many of
whom came in. costume. ‘Amateur acts,
tricks performed by a magician, singing,
and dancing made up the program. As the
children were leaving the hall they were
given popcorn balls and candy.

I

Halloween Parties in
Kansas City

 

ON JUNE I, 1943, at a
special town meeting,
Reading, Massachu-
setts, appropriated
$4,500 for an eight week summer playground pro-
gram. The town warrant for this summer money
was approved unanimously, and a director and
sixteen play leaders were engaged, the group to be
comprised of school teachers, 4-H Club leaders,
and college girls preparing to be teachers.

Handcraft and War
Stamps

Handcraft proved a very popular activity. Four
handcraft teachers traveled from one playground
to another initiating programs and giving instruc—
tion. Interest was added to the program through
the following plan: The articles that the children
made were paid for by them through the scheme
of buying War Stamps. The cost of each article
was determined, and the children then purchased
stamps to the amount of the value involved. They
then kept the handcraft article, as well as the
stamps.

DURING the summer
season of 1942, ac-
cording to a recent re—
port, thirty-one band
and orchestra concerts were provided for Kansas
City, Missouri, by the Recreation Division of the
Welfare Department. The orchestra gave eight

OCTOBER 1943

Band and Orchestra
Concerts

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Houston, Texas

concerts at Loose Park on Sunday evenings. The
band played Sunday evenings at Swope Park and
on assigned schedule Wednesday evenings. The
Negro band gave Sunday evening concerts at the
Paradeway. Street dances and community sings
were scheduled regularly during the summer from
the middle of June through August.

SINCE its inception in
1917 the School Na-
ture League of New
York City has made an important contribution by
providing materials for the teaching of natural
history. Among these has been the Nature Bul-
letin, a series of attractively printed and illus-
trated bulletins presenting in popular form brief,
interesting, and up-to—date information on sub-
jects in all the natural sciences.

Nature Bulletins

Faced with the necessity of discontinuing its
activities as a separate Organization in the fall of
1942, the League invited the National Audubon
Society to sponsor future publications of the Bul-
letin. This responsibility the Society accepted, and
there is now available a list of seventy-iive titles
classified under Animals, Plants, Earth and Sky,
and General. These bulletins are available at 10
cents each; a complete set at $4.00. Further in-
formation and a list of the bulletins may be secured
from the National Audubon Society, 1006 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.

407‘

408 WORLD AT PLA Y

   

 
 

Send for New
Circular—Just Out!

It illustrates smart modern styled
suits to meet every gym require-
ment, each an outstanding value in
its field. National suits are recom-
 mended by hundreds of Physical
 Directors throughout the nation.

0 NATIONAL gym suits are
carefully manufactured and
full cut with "action free"
tailoring.

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

0 ALL NATIONAL fabrics are
mercerized for extra tensile
strength, an added feature
for longer wear.

0 NATIONAL styles are smart
and modern—tailored to
look and wear to your
complete satisfaction.

NATIONAL

  Sports Equipment Company
  365-375 Marquette Fond du Lac. Wis.

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

(Continued from page 406)

education” and instructor in the natural sciences
at New Harmony 0n the Wabash, he carried in-
spiration to his pupils. He aptly said that “The
best, most useful and cheapest pastime is the
natural selences, which can be practiced in all
countries and climates at the least expense of either
money or morals; the pursuits of which are pro-
ductive of health, liberality, and the utmost exten-
sion of toleration, as there is room enough for all
without jostling.”

“Snakes, A Field Book of North American,”
Raymond L. Ditmars. Doubleday, Doran and C0.,

New York, 1939. 48 plates, 305 pp. $3.50. Photo- -

graphs and non—technical keys for easy identifica-
tion. Information on snake habits and treatment
of snake bites.

MERRY MIMES PLAY SERVICE

Free catalog of inexpensive dramatic

material for children.
367 Derrcr Rd., Columbus 4, Ohio

——~——-————%—i

 

Chicago Recreation Conference—1943—The
Chicago Recreation Commission announces that
the annual Recreation Conference will be held
November 12, 1943, at the Hotel Sherman. There
will be general sessions, group discussions, ex-
hibits and demonstrations, and a special dinner
meeting for youth delegates. The afternoon ses~
sion will conclude with an QCD block meeting pre-
senting a dramatic demonstration of how commu-
nity' resources are brought to bear on wartime
problems. Further information may be secured
from the Chicago Recreation Commission, 160
North LaSalle Street, Chicago I.

“Fun at the P1aygrounds”—In a booklet,

- “Fun at the Playgrounds,” the L05 Angeles Play-

ground and Recreation Department last summer
offered residents of the city an attractive and in-
formative guide to summer recreation in 1943.

Each of the city’s fifty—two playgrounds and rec-
reation centers was allotted a page of descriptive
matter setting forth the scheduled‘ recreational
events for the summer of 1943, special events with
dates, and some facts about the history of the play—
ground and the facilities it offers. In addition, the
address and telephone number of each playground
were given, together with the names of the di-
rectors.

The inside back cover of the book contained a
directory of municipal playgrounds and recreation
centers, together with a key locating Special facili-
ties such as baseball diamonds and tennis courts.
Municipal beaches, swimming pools and camps
were also listed with addresses. The back cover
showed the layout of a typical Los Angeles play-
ground and listed indoor and outdoor facilities.

Halloween—Community Style
(Continued from page 386)

with prizes. Then follow various energetic con-
tests and games.

The bonfire, highlight of the evening’s program,
comes next and community singing and snake
dances ensue around the fire. Cider and dough~
nuts, provided free by the city to all participants,
are served to the now weary goblins.

Usually at this stage most of the younger boys
and girls start homeward. For the older boys and
girls, as.well as adults, there is street dancing,
with blockades erected to protect the dancers.
Special colored lights are strung as part of the
decorations and music is provided through public
address systems or juke boxes. On some play—

RECREATION

SYNTHETIC RUBBER MEANS
BETTER-THAN-EVER

 

   

Bu‘y War Bonds Regularly



W. 1. V0" RUBBER CORP.

1600 -- East 25th Street, los Angeles ll, California

.-

OCTOBER 1943

.‘CU‘ATHLHIC '
_ BALLS

409

410 SOCIAL CENTERS ARE CITIZENS’ WAR SERVICE STATIONS

DIAMOND PRODUCTS

Are On Every Fighting Frbnt

Wifh the Army. +he Navy. +he Marines.

on fanks and in airplanes . . . Diamond

Tools and Products are doing fheir parl-
fo keep Uncle Sam's figh'l'ing machinery
moving forward . . . They are used on
the farm and in every essenfial war
indusfry on 'l'he home fronf.

We're doing our besfxfo fake care
of our customers. but war needs musf
come firsf.

DIAMOND (ALK

HORSESHOE CO.
46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth' Minn.

FUN FOR HALLOWEEN

O Seventeen pages of spooky
“doings” for your Halloween party.
Party plans, invitations, decora-

tions, refreshments, musical ac-

tivities, stunts, and GAMES of all
kinds.

0 Plus a comprehensive bibli-
ography of stories, plays, songs,
and books—everything you need

for a ghost-and-goblin celebration.

Price 25 Cents

National Recreafion Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New York IO. N. Y.

 

 

grounds dancing is held on the concrete tennis
courts. Most of the parties end by II :00 or I I :30
P. M.

The American Legion Posts in Evanston assist
the Recreation Department’s regular staff by con-
tributing volunteer leaders. To supervise the
twelve parties a staff of from eighty to one hun-
dred twenty leaders or workers is needed.

All workers are invited to attend a preliminary
meeting to discuss the program, means of control
and supervision, and a thorough discussion of
policies.

The Police Department is notified in advance
where the programs will be held and What the
routes of parades will be. Their assistance is re-
quested in sending all youngsters — found on the
loose—-—to the nearest park. When the yearly
estimate of attendance is taken, it is usually found

that between 7,000 and 8,000 youngsters attend
these free parties.

Social Cen’rers Are Cifizens' War

Service Stations °
(Continued from page 379)
public library stations at four centers from which

books can be taken out on regulation public li-
brary cards; co-recreational rooms at all the cen-
ters; and children’s rooniséspecial play rooms in
which parents may leave their children with trained
play leaders while they attend the social center’s
activities. And for children there is a special after-
noon program of games and club activities from
3:45 to 5:30 daily and Saturday mornings and
afternoons.

All of Milwaukee’s social centers have clubs for
boys, girls, and adults, and a wide range of inter-
ests is covered by these organizations which in-
clude athletic, service, social, civic, special interest,
and hobby groups.

Citizenship preparation for the foreign—born has
always been a part of the school center program in
Milwaukee, and the 1943 schedule offers morning,
afternoon and evening classes in beginners’ Eng-
lish, intermediate English, advanced English, pre—
paration for naturalization papers, and continua-
tion classes in literature and history. Help is given
to the foreign—born, whether class members or not,
in filling out their citizenship papers.

This year, as an aid to the war effort, classes in
Japanese are being offered for men and women pre-
paring to enter the armed forces and candidates
for FBI service. Classes in other foreign languages
will  organized as the requests are made.

RECREATION

THOMAS W. LANTZ 411

Thomas W. Lantz

New Executive in Denver

N OCTOBER 4, 1943, Thomas W. Lantz began

his service as recreation executive in Denver,
Colorado. For fourteen years Thomas Lantz
served as recreation executive in Reading, Penn-
sylvania, and there has been very real apprecia—
tion of what his leadership has meant there.

A Soldier Likes an. Easy Chair

(Continued from page 383)

contact. He wants to go into someone’s home
where he will feel that he is well enough thought
of to be an invited guest.

The thin thread of contact between the men in
service and the people in the community is of vital
importance: The bonds between them must be
continually strengthened. The men in camp must
not be an isolated group set apart from the rest of
the public. They have community interests and
ties; they have their roots in towns and cities, and
in homes.

A chance for servicemen to spend time with
private families is of great importance, not only
because it satisfies the men in service, but also
because, and perhaps quite as important, it con-
tinues contact with civilians. It preserves that
touch, which will enable them to readjust more

readily when they are discharged and flock back
to civilian life.

The average father and mother are quite likely
to set their son apart from the rest of the men.
They hope their son will be able to contact the
right kind of pe0ple and be invited to the right
kind of homes, but many of them seem unaware
. that many men are just like their own sons.

Inviting servicemen home for dinner or in small
groups for parties has helped the people of the
New Jersey shore area to better understand the
men who make up our armed forces. At the same

time this hospitality has made a real contribution
to the war effort.

And this program of family fun for servicemen
has proved to be amazingly simple—just relaxing,
talking, listening to the radio, piano playing, some
singing perhaps, chess, checkers, bridge, playing
with the cat aor with the little girl who is “just
like” the serviceman’s little sister at home.

OCTOBER 1943

    

 I pf."

THE NAME

. . . a mark of Quality and Assurance
on Tennis Equipment today

as in years past

War has placed certain necessary restrictions upon
materials used in the manufacture of tennis equip-
ment.

But there are no restrictions upon the ideals and
standards of Wilson Quality.

Today’s Wilson tennis rackets, strung with gut
made by Wilson & Co., Chicago, are made to the
same line standards as those used for years by
America’s leading tennis “greats.”

Wilson’s new Championship Tennis Ball has been
pronounced “the finest tennis ball that can be

made today."

Its performance is amaz-
ingly good. See your dealer
or tennis Professional.
Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York and
other leading cities.

 
 
 
 
    

412 SINGING CONGREGATLONS

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

. , ;.; c - - "
- ‘_ t I, .__ _ ‘ ».'  
am; a- ' - ~ <

THE P. GOLISSMITH SONS, int.
JOHN AND FINDLAY SIS, CINCINNATI, OHIO

u
1 v
u
I

 

Singing Congregations
(Continued from page 395)

thoughts away from self to love, praise, thanks-

giving and to the majesty, wonder and beauty of

God, and to resolve to be of utmost service in
these days of peril for Christian and American
ideals. We need to realize these feelings and attri—
butes through really expressing them, not singing
all hymns and all the phrases of each hymn alike,
as is commonly done.

The choir, entrusted not only with singing for
the congregation but also with singing with the
congregation, should be as well prepared as it can
for each of these responsibilities. The choir might
well give a brief hymn recital at appropriate times
to cultivate greater appreciation of familiar hymns
and acquaintance with unfamiliar ones. In place
of, or as a part of, some of the brief organ recitals
given just before the church service, there might
be the singing by the choir of a fine hymn or a
varied program of hymns. Another occasion for
such a recital, though very brief, would be in the
church service itself. If the hymn is unfamiliar, it

might be most helpful to have it sung in unison by
the choir. In the churches of communities fre—
quented by men in the armed forces, there is an .-
especially great need and opportunity for the choirs
to be as valorous and effective in their singing as
anyone could be in any other civilian service to the
community and the nation. _

Let us consider earnestly the effects of organ
preludes, interludes and postludes on the character
of the whole service. These probably have the
greatest possible influence, and they should be
carefully chosen to establish or maintain the best
possible attitude, never departing from reverence
and excellence. They should also be such as to
integrate in the service as a whole, not a planless
series of pieces.

Every church service should enkindle in some
measure the glow of Spirit that is the essence of a
festival. Any unison musical service uniting the
people of several churches in the singing of hymns
can be especially effective in this regard. But most
inspiring of all can a hymn festival be for which a
number of good hymns have been practiced before-
hand, or at least made familiar in the various
churches. The hymns should be of the sort within
which, though they are simple, there is ample room
for growth in Spirit, expressiveness and beauty;
and they should be sung in unison.

The music leaders of a church or of the com-
munity, inSpired by their high and joyous purpose,
with imagination and confidence will be able to
plan a unified program well suited to their own
people, not overlooking any admirable folk hymns, I
white spirituals as well as Negro ones, or religious
folk ballads of any of those people. The ministers
will want to help.

Table Soccer or "Harblo"
(Continued from page 403)

they may be fastened by a small brad, or better,
by a removable metal pin. A small hole should
be bored through the jaws of the clothespin
and through the rod for this pin.

9. Some people prefer to use small wooden pad-

dles instead of Clothespins, and to screw or
glue these on permanently. If this is done, a
section should be cut through all the holes on
one side, and a detachable strip screwed on top
to permit removing the rods for repairs with-
out having to take off all the paddles. (See
Figure 2.)

RECREATION

A HOME AWAY FROM HOME 413

A Home Away from Home
(Continued from page 397)

functions under the direction of Miss Beatrice
Ryan, Recreation Department supervisor.

The Dearborn Servicemen’s Center was officially
dedicated May 22 with city, Army and Navy of-
ficials present. Governor Harry F. Kelly, in a let—
ter of congratulations, praised the work of Dear-
born citizens who gave unstintingly of their time
and money to make the Center a true home for
servicemen.

School Music .and the Community

(Continued from page 405 )

talent. It means leading our children and young
people to wish to share the pleasure they find in
the art, and the skill in it which they develop, just
as widely as possible both in and out of the school.
It means, in summary, that the music program
should stand, above everything else, for a free,
happy, human association of people, young and
old, who. rejoice in one another’s successes, who
bear with and seek to relieve one another’s weak—
nesses, and whose experience in working together
with the art is transposed into an association for
which the only adequate name is friendship.

The music program in your school can be a
potent instrumentality on behalf of the democratic
ideal. It can become so on condition that it is
permeated in every fibre with the spirit of free-
dom, the spirit of achievement, the spirit of broth—
erhood. Then the young people entrusted to your
care will not be learning music only. They will be
learning at the same time how to live as free peo--
ple should in a free world. The work you carry on
will be saturated and activated by the commanding
ideal for whose triumph we are now at war. Never
I fear but that artistic outcomes will be added unto
you likewise. Here is the inSpiring potential of
the enterprise this Conference represents. If we
fulfill it, we shall most surely and fully possess our
inheritance in the future years.

Our Apologies

In the August issue of RECREATION the author
of the article, “A Summer Recreation Program for
a Small Community,” was given incorrectly as Dr.
L. A. Burnett. The article was written by Dr. L.
A. Barrett of Salida, Colorado.

OCTOBER 1943

YOU GET THE
BEST VALUE
IN NATIONAL

 

Ruggedly Built far-1’ 7;
' . q
Priced Right “(q/.760 ] for
1’ (I 0
G e?!
100% Safe ,. WW M4,: ’9
I
Made of real Layer Felt and * so 1 P403
guaranteed free from broken ,+ X’NG R
punching needles, common in TRAIN "VG:
ordinary punched process felts. * p40 "VG BAG
National Mats and Pads are * 34 COVERS 5
widely used by High Schools, ,1. 55 3,“
Universities and Colleges 5h; l 845
throughout the country. They 57C. 55

represent outstanding values . . .
built right . . . priced right. . .
and stand the gaff.

NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT Cd.

365—75 MARQUETTE FOND DU LAC, WIS.

THE
THANKSGIVING
BOOK

HERE’S a book you’ll be thankful for ——-a

real holiday manual complete with back-
ground material and practical suggestions for
a Thanksgiving program—PLUS a 7-page

bibliography of entertainment ideas.

IF YOU’RE planning a play 9r pageant,

here is a Wealth of information about har-
vest-time traditions and ceremonies. . . . If it’s
a ceremonial or festival, use the ready-made
scripts or adapt them for your locality. . . .
Or if a party is on your schedule, try “The
Apple is King.”

Forty-seven pages of helpful

Thanksgiving material

. . . Price 25 Cents

National RecreatiOn Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue. New Yorlt IO. N. Y.

414

JUNIIIR
AIITS & ACTIVITIES

the Magazine for
Y O U!
the Alert Elementary Teacher

The only national teachers magazine containing
so much practical, creative material that you can
put right to work in your classes:

Democracy in the Classroom' a new feature,
designed to help you instill ideals of democratic
living into the boys and girls under your care.

New series of articles on Music . . . Arf . . .
Reading and Literature . . . Woodworking . . .

and many more.

If you are a Social Worker, Recreation Di-
rector, Leader of Children’s and Young People's
Groups, you will find abundant material each
month in Junior' ARTS & ACTIVITIES.

1 BIG ISSUES
ONLY $3.00

Regardless of the grade you teach or the
group you lead, Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES will
give you the material you need. Every issue is
profusely illustrated and contains projeCts for
primary, intermediate, and upper grades. It
makes work FUN! You owe it to yourself to ’
obtain this helpful, usable material.

SUBSCRIBE TODAY!

Junior ARTS 8: ACTIVITIES R-9-43
46l6 N. Clark St. Chicago 40, III.

Please enter my subscription for Junior ARTS 8:
ACTIVITIES for 1 year, price $3.00. If I am not
satisfied, I may cancel my subscription within 10 days
after receipt of the first issue. I enclose .................... ..
or I shall remit ................................................ ..(datc)

Name .......................................................................... ..

Address ...................................................................... ..
City ............................................ .. State .................... ..

 

RECREATION PIONEERING IN ICELAND

Recreation Pioneering in Iceland
( Continued from page 382)

for the men—especially in conversing with the
native girls.

These men take great pride in their record of
being the first contingent of the AEF —three
months before Pearl Harbor. The pioneers in
recreation have a feeling of pride, too, as we see
tangible results in the face of seemingly insur—
mountable difficulties.

They Call Her "Mom"

(Continued from page 387 )

tremendously. Just turned fifty, “Mom” doesn’t
know what it is to tire—and she certainly doesn’t
feel like a heroine.

Giving due credit to all the people who helped
her in the work, Mrs. Badeau insists she never
could have done anything at all without coopera—
tion. Whenever she approaches peOple who have.
things that are needed for the Coast Guard, she
applies the attitude that all of us owe everything
we have to the men who are safeguarding our
country, for if they weren’t doing their job we
wouldn’t have anything—~and it works miracles
every time.

Right after Pearl Harbor, Mrs. Badeau’s hus-
band, Col. Carroll Badeau, was called back to
active duty. Since she was planning to follow him

‘ on his various assignments, they sold their Eliza—

beth, New Jersey, home and came to Bay Head
where Mrs. Badeau didn’t expect to stay long.
But once involved in providing much-needed en-
tertainment and recreation facilities for the Coast
Guard, she felt that her job here was much more
important than her own wish to be with her
husband.

A major in the last war, her husband is now a
colonel on active duty, and Admiral William F.
Halsey is her first cousin. But now “Mom” has a
well—deserved commission of her own.

Where Credit Is Due

An editorial, “Recreation in War,” which was
reprinted in the July issue of RECREATION from
the Journal of Health and Physical Education was
written by Dr. E. D. Mitchell, former editor of the
Journal. At present Dr. Mitchell is a lieutenant
commander with the Eighth Naval District.

RECREATION

WARTIME RECREATION FOR BRITAIN’S YOUTH 415

L Jazz/mi Mar; ffA/JJWOAM/ (IA/£2 .. J
) BOWLING THE NEW 2-WAY .{

 

0 NEW . . . Two-Way Bowling alleys are space saving—-a complete bowling
alley that is operated by the players themselves —- no pin boys required.

0 SENSATIONAL . . . Two-Way‘ Bowling alleys sell for a fraction of the cost
of regulation alleys —- superbly constructed to last a life-time.

0 DIFFERENT . . . Two-Way Bowling alleys are portable — easily assembled

and just as easily taken apart—perfect for indoor or outdoor use.

will; compliment; of malPigh (Einstein’s

Additional score sheets furnished tree to all branches
of the armed services and the U. S. 0. Centers ~using

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPURATION 

Telephone LExinqton 2-8828 0

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

‘5'

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlt

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Address ............................................................ ..
 State .................. ..

 

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

Wartime Recreation for Britain's Youth
(Continued from page 389)

And in rural areas recreation facilities are pro—
vided for farmers throughout the year in Young
Farmers Clubs for the youngsters, numerous other
organizations for older people, or combinations of
both in rural centres and schools. Those city girls
who have chosen the Land Army as their national
service utilize these facilities and have come to
enjoy and appreciate the rural people for whom
they are working. _

Wherever I went in Britain there were facilities
for recreation. Movies, theaters, the arts flourish.

Concerts are exceedingly popular. Many night.-

clubs and restaurants, though crowded, feature
dancing. American Red Cross clubs provide typi-
cally American facilities for United States service—
men on leave. British canteens or clubs provide
them for British enlisted men and women, and are
open to the fighting forces of all the United Na-
tions. Some like to play darts or bowl, others to

OCTOBER 1943

dance, or sing community fashion; some like to
see a show, to relax and read. Civilians often
want to study subjects related to their work.
Many pe0ple in all walks of life want to discuss
the war in public forums and discussion groups,
some want to discuss their problems over a glass
of beer in a pub.

The pe0p1e of Britain enjoy their work because
they enjoy what little leisure is left them. N 0 one
has 'much time for relaxation. Working days are
long, civilian defense services must be manned all
day and all night, volunteer jobs have to be done
in one’s free time. Britain now produces 70 per
cent of its own food needs as against a prewar
25 per cent. Its factories turn out the implements
of war at high speed, along with a minimum of
civilian necessities. Its people seem constantly to
be rushing from job to job in the course of a day.
But what Spare time exists is used constructively
because the people know what it means to retain
the privilege of a few hours which they can spend
as they choose.

416 CHILDREN’S BOOK WEEK

C’kristmas .75 €0miny!

. . . IF your Christmas program isn’t under

     

way, now’s the time to start.

. . . IF you want' suggestions, plans, back-
ground material, a community program, ideas
for decorations and refreshments, a party
plan, a ceremonial, or a playlet . . . you’ll find
them all in THE CHRISTMAS BOOK, our 70 page
booklet of helpful holiday suggestions.

. . . IF you haven’t seen THE CHRISTMAS
BOOK, send for a copy today.

. . . . IF you used the book last year, let us
send you additional copies for this year’s

program.

Price 50 cents

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N. Y. 

Children's Book Week

(Continued from page 401)

bly programs to make Book Week an exciting
event.

1. Form a committee of students and teachers
to make plans.

2. Urge PTA groups to discuss children’s
reading.

3. Help students prepare publicity for school
and local papers.

4. Have exhibits and quizzes about people of
other lands, books about America, what our
ancestors read, news background for the
world we live in, vocational books, books for
a better world.

5. Interpret “Build the Future with Books"
in programs and pageants: “Reading helps
us to know our allies,” “What does democ-
racy mean today ?” “The background of our

freedom,” “What kind of world we want to
build.”

For Public Librarians. All the elements in your
community may be together in a fruitful Book
\Veek celebration.

1. Form a Book Week Committee including

representatives of all local organizations in-
terested in young people.

2. Ask the mayor to proclaim Book Week and
Library Day.

3. Arrange for posters and displays in business
windows, in your library, and other public
places.

4. Give talks to schools, clubs and over the
radio.

5. Call on local editors; ask them to write edi-
torials, run contests, have reviews of chil-
dren’s books, insert articles about local
Book Week programs.

6. Distribute book marks as widely as possible.

7. Be sure that each interested organization
makes plans: Boy Scouts, parent—teacher
groups, women’s clubs, etc.

For Clubs and Groups. An increasing number of
organizations are sharing Book \Veek.

I. Make “Build the Future with Books” the

theme of an October or November meeting.
Invite an author or your local bookseller to
tell about the fascinating new books for
young people.

2. Consult the librarian:
a. Ask her what books children enjoy.
I). Suggest a meeting of your group at the

library.

3. Give the newspapers stories and information
about your plans.

4. Suggest that parents start home libraries for
children.

Joseph Lee Day— I943

(Continued from page 373)

with miscellaneous games, the program included
relay races, lunch, a swim for boys and girls, and
a softball game for boys.

Children of the Lynchburg, Virginia, play—
grounds played some of Joseph Lee’s favorite
games, such as Looby Loo, Hill Dill, and Three
Deep.

The entire summer playground program in
Memphis, Tennessee, was dedicated to the memory
of Joseph Lee. The life of Joseph Lee and his
achievements were impressed upon the children.

At fifty-two playgrounds and community cen—
ters in Los Angeles, California, children and adults
took part in play festivals and similar activities.
An archery tournament, water sports, dancing, and
ball games were among the activities featured.

RECREATION

"

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 417

Community Barn Dances
(Continued from page 372)

that get into the squares. They number off one and
two. The number one couple progresses to. the
right and the number two couple stays in place.
\N e use chiefly the dance figures where they circle
four, then do the figure, circle four again, do-si—do
and then number one goes to the next couple. In
this manner a new couple can soon learn to do the

dances.

Often we have special numbers, such as the.
grand march, Yankee Doodle, in groups of three,
the glow worm, and the broom dance. This dance
is a ladies tag and each woman caught with a
broom when the whistle is blown has to forfeit a
penny. The ladies choice and ladies tag has always
been very popular.

A small fee of 25 cents for men and 15 cents
for women is charged now to cover expenses. The
dances are held on Monday, Wednesday, and Fri-
day nights with an average of 540 persons attend—
ing each dance. These dances are easily controlled,
each person being put on his own to keep order.
All the dances start at 8 :15 P.M. and close promptly
at II :15. Most of the people who attend are in-
dustrial workers. Many come early, dance for an
hour, and leave for home because they go to work
early the next morning. ‘

Whole families come to these dances since games
and activities are provided for the children in the
rear of the building. We offer checking service
and a concession stand of cold soft drinks.

Since the WPA project closed in December,
1942, the city Park and Recreation Department
has conducted the dances.

Moonlight .and Roses

(Continued from page'404)

shutters were the only sounds except for the
whispered approval of the audience.

After the program the queens withdrew and the
court, shouldering the rose—chain, followed.

The dance was attended by all within walking
or cycling distance. Director John Burdick of the
Community Center was in charge of the event.
Committees working with him planned the enter-
tainment and novelty dances, secured gifts from
local shops and manufacturers, and ransacked the
town for available garden furniture—and its
transportation.

'OCTOBER 1943

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlrer

 

MAGAZI N ES

Kiwanis Magazine, September 1943
Geneseo Found the Answer

Look, September 21, 1943
Are These Our Children?

National Parent-Teacher, September 1943
Teen-Town, Oklahoma

Parents’ Magazine, September 1943

Try a Neighborhood Party, by Rachel Davis-Du-
Bois and Marjorie Barstow Greenbie

Parks and Recreation, July—August 1943

Effect of Priorities and Rationing on Maintenance
and Operation, by Bernard G. Memmel

Recreation in Relation to Planning, uby Gilmore D.
Clarke

Scouting, July 1943
Hand-to-Hand Contest

Survey Midmonthly, August 1943
Block Clubs in Action, by Louis H. Blumenthal

Think, August 1943

A City Boy at a Farm Camp, by Harriet Eager
Davis

PAMPHLETS

Children on the Home Front. A study of Wartime Care
of Children of Working Mothers in Elmira, N. Y.
April 15, 1943

N. Y. State Department of Social Welfare, Albany,
New York

Community Food Preservation Centers.

Miscellaneous Publication No. 472. Bureau of Home
Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Price 10 cents

Education and the People’s Peace. A publication of the
Educational Policies Commission. July 1943

National Education Association of the United States
and the American Association of School Admin-
istrators, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washing-
ton, D. C. Price 10 cents.

Educational Problems in Camp and Community, by Mark
A. McCloskey

Reprinted by permission of Harper and Brothers
from “The Family in a World at War” edited by
Sidonie Matsner Gruenberg

Federal Security Agency, Office of Community War
Services, Recreation Section, Washington, D. C.

The War-Time Nursery Schools of Great Britain

As described in ofiicial publications of the National
Union of Teachers of England
Reprinted by American Federation of Teachers, 506

South Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

Wartime Canning of Fruits, Vegetables. June 1943

Issued by Bureau of Human Nutrition and Home
Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Price 5 cents per copy; $1.00 per 100 copies

418 RECREATION FOR THE BLIND

’Recreation for the Blind
(Continued from page 391)

are so positive an activity that they are scheduled
as frequently as possible.

In the ever persistent, continuing struggle to
bring about more widespread community realiza-
tion that the blind are normal, sensitive individ-
uals, much of the emphasis has been placed on
their vocational, remunerative attainments. No
one questions the relative importance of publiciz—
ing their ability to be fully or partially self-main-
taining. However, there has been too little aware-
ness of the contribution that recreation can make
not only toward self-maintenance, but also toward
personal, individual acceptance in the community.

We should begin now to prepare a specific pro—
gram to meet expanding needs as a result of war
casualties. Recreation should be an important part
of such a program. Re-orientation to a life with-
out vision is extremely difficult. The newly blind
have to be directed along familiar paths in order
to build confidence and assurance. Continued and
increased participation in simple, normal recrea—
tional activities can be the most effective medium
for reaching and sustaining these newly blind who
must be made to feel that they still are capable,
adequate individuals.

They "Just Jump” /

(Continued from page 378)

comprehensive program of civilian defense is rarely
done; when it is, it falls to the adult who the block
captain feels is incompetent for any of the other
“more important” tasks. So youth work becomes
something vague like the whole morale program
of civilian defense.

Civilian defense leaders everywhere should cre-
ate youth activities directors in their block, zone
and community organizations and in collaboration
with the neighboring center, Y, settlement, park
playground, or school, they should arrange to
train men and women in the job of bringing the
war to youth.

Juvenile delinquency is on the increase in
America. Britain felt it so keenly that it was com-
pelled to recall from the army social workers, rec-
reation, and group workers to meet the problem.
We can meet our problems—first, by accepting the
importance to the war effort of our responsibility
to our youth, and second, by volunteering as lead-
ers in our local youth groups.

Fun for Thanksgiving
_( Continued from page 399)

so jealous that he would not permit his sweetheart
to be with another man. How can these persons
cross the river without any girl being found in the
company of either or both of the other men with-
out her lover being present:

Formation: Place one or more sets of twelve
chairs and three couples in the playing space. Use
a rug or two lines to represent the river, and have
six chairs on each side of it.

Game: Let the couples move across the river
under the above conditions. They may work out

their own problem or let the rest of the group
help solve it.

Solution :

l—Man 1 and Girl 1 cross 7—Girls 1 and 2 cross
Z—Man 1 returns 8—Man 3 returns
3——'Girls 2 and 3 cross 9—Man 3 and 1 cross
4—Girl 1 returns lO—«Girl 2 returns
S—Men 2 and 3 cross ll—Cou-ple 2 crosses
6—Couple 2 returns 12—And they all go home

Harvest Guess. Formation: Any number of
players sit in a circle. The leader starts the game
by saying, “I went to the grocery store and while
there bought (name some article by the initials
representing its name.” For example, “I bought
some O.D.C. (Old Dutch Cleanser) .” The first to
guess the article bought takes the leader’s place
and continues the game.

Corncob Trick. Three whole corncobs are the
equipment required for this trick. Break each
one into three pieces and lay them on a table. Turn
away and ask someone to touch one of the pieces
and remember which one it was. (He must notice
some peculiarity by which he can identify it.)

Then shuffle the pieces about, making three
piles, and unobtrusively placing all “ends” in one
pile, all “middles” in another, and all “butts” in
the third. Ask, “Which pile is your piece in ?”
When told, remember whether it is the “end,”
“middle,” or “butt” pile. Then rearrange the piles,
seemingly in a very careless fashion, but in reality
taking care to place an “end,” a “middle” and a
“butt” in each pile. “Now which pile is it in ?”
When you hear the answer, you have only to pick
up the piece chosen and say “Here’s your piece.”

When the time for food arrives, you can present
the guests with the following menu:

Gingerbread and whipped cream, coffee, candy
corn and nuts —-—

Or: Products of the farm, toasted cheese sand-
wiches, Waldorf salad, cider, and nuts.

RECREATION

   

Songs of My Country

Compiled and arranged by Ada Richter. Theodore Pres-
ser Company, 1712 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. $.75.
HIS COLLECTION contains a number of familiar songs

in easy arrangements for piano. The songs have been

classified under “Earliest Patriotic Songs,” “Famous

War Songs of Early Years,” “Songs Our Fighting Men

Like to Sing,” and “Famous War Songs and Patriotic

Tunes of Later Years.”

War and Children

By Anna Freud and Dorothy T. Burlingham. Medical
War Books, 227 West 13th Street, New York. $4.00.

FOR THE PAST three years Anna Freud, daughter of the

late Sigmund Freud, and Dorothy Tiffany Burling—
ham have been operating the three Hampstead nurseries
for the Foster Parents’ Plan for War Children, in Eng-
land. These two workers have collected a number of case
histories of the children with whom they have been in
daily, intimate contact, and for the first time they are
available in printed form. The children’s reactions to
bombing and mental and physical suffering have been
carefully recorded.

Course for the Storyteller—An Outline

By Ruth Budd Galbraith. The H. W. Wilson Company,
New York. $.35.

HIS OUTLINE for the study of storytelling was pre-

pared for a Workshop in Storytelling in a summer
Institute for Volunteers in Community Activities at the
New Jersey College for Women. It has been revised to
meet the needs of volunteer workers desiring to tell
stories to children in community centers, day nurseries
and playground groups, and for teachers and librarians
asked to teach groups such as the High School Victory
CorpS.‘

Fun with Magic

By Joseph Leeming. Frederick A. Stokes Company,
_ Philadelphia. $2.00.

WITH THE CLEAR DIRECTIONS given in this book the
youngest showman, though he may not be more than
eight years old, can give a successful performance.
Seventy tricks are offered, and there are full directions
for making equipment and for running a show with all
the “prOper patter.” Many of the tricks can be per-
formed without any special equipment. "

Teachers Enjoy the Arts

By Ray N. Faulkner and Helen E. Davis. Prepared_for
the Commission on Teacher Education. American
Council on Education, Washington, D. C. $.50.

ms IS THE STORY of what happened as a result of art
programs conducted as integral parts of live summer‘
workshops for teachers sponsored in 1940 and 1941 by

OCTOBER 1943

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

three of the city school systems participating in the co-
Operative study of teacher education conducted by the
Commission on Teacher Education. The project was a
demonstration of the possibilities inherent in the arts for
offering everyone the means of a deeper and richer un-
derstanding of life. Recreation workers will find in this
pamphlet much of the philosophy underlying the program
of arts and crafts which they are promoting on play-
grounds and in recreation centers.

Let Them PlayI a Primer to Help
Children Grow Up

By Clara Lambert and Rowena Shoemaker. Play Schools

Association, Inc., 1841 Broadway, New York 23, New
York. $.40.

THE BLUEPRINT and work sheets presented here offer

program material for work-play groups, play cen-
ters, after school groups, play schools and day camps
conducted for the school age child. They suggest ways
in which leaders can help children extend their knowl-
edge and at the same time have fun. Section I directs
the leader’s attention to her community and the basic
material she will find there to help her in giving the
children experiences in both play and work. Section II
offers suggestions for giving children a share in solving
food and rationing problems, where Section III outlines
work and play in science, in weather, and in puppetry
and masks.

The Good Housekeeping See and Sew.
A Picture Book of Sewing

By Mariska Karasz.
Philadelphia. $1.50.

HERE IS A LEARN-TO-SEW BOOK for the beginner which

approaches the subject from the angle of picture
instruction. Six simple, useful, and attractive articles
are described, each presenting all the basic stitches and
“holds” of sewing.

Frederick A. Stokes Company,

Childhood Days of Famous Composers

By Lottie Ellsworth Coit and Ruth Bampton. Theodore
Presser Company, 1712 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
Each $.35.

HERE IS AN INTERESTING SERIES of stories and musical
compositions from the childhood days of famous
composers designed to create and deveIOp in children at
an early age an abiding love of music. In addition to a
number of musical selections, arranged and simplified so
that they will be easy to play, each booklet contains sug—
gestions for constructing a miniature stage and creating
a musical playlet visualizing and'dramatizing the story.
The first in the series is The Child Mozart; The Child
Bach has been released; and The Child Haydn is in
preparation.

419

420 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

A Handbook of War Savings
School Assembly Programs.

Prepared by the Education Section, War Savings
Staff, U. S. Treasury Department, Washington, D. C.

Recreation departments, many of which have done much
to promote the sale of War Stamps, will want to know of
this handbook which contains five tested War Savings
plays and suggestions for promoting War Savings pro-
grams through plays, pageants, rallies, concerts, radio
programs, and other channels. A single copy of this
handbook is available free from the War Savings Staf’f,
U. S. Treasury Department, Washington.

La Hora Del Canto (The Hour of Singing).

By F. Gonzales. Edward B. Marks Music Corpora-
tion, RCA Building, Radio City, New York. $.35.

Here is a collection of selected Latin American songs
especially adapted for American students. The composi-
tions selected have been particularly pOpular with the
students of Spanish for whom this volume is primarily
intended.

The Americas and the Post-War World.

By Florence Brewer Boeckel. PeOples Mandate
Committee fOr Inter-American Peace and Coopera—

tion. Hay-Adams House, Washington, D. C. $.25.

This is a summary of plans under discussion in the
United States “to achieve a world in which all men, free
from fear and want, may reach their full development
spiritually as well as physically.”

The Jack Tales.

Edited by Richard Chase. Houghton Mifflin Com-
pany, Boston. $2.50.

These stories of Jack, who still climbs his familiar
beanstalk and meets with adventures of all kinds, have
been handed down from one storyteller to another f0r
generations in the mountain country of North Carolina
and, in all probability, came over from England with our
earliest settlers. They have a rightful place in the folk-
lore of our country.

Where’s My Baby?

By H. A. Rey. Houghton Mifiiin Company, Boston.
$1.00.

A delightful book for little children, presenting
through colored pictures a number of animals and their
young. Verses which appeal to children accompany each
picture.

Education in Wartime and After.

By Stanford University School of Education Faculty.
D. Appleton-Century COmpany, New York. $3.00.

This book, a COOperative undertaking on the part of
members of the faculty 'of the School of Education of
Stanford University, represents the considered judgment
of all faculty members who took part in this effort to
interpret the nature of the problems facing the schools
of the country and the characteristics of a deSIrable pro-
gram of action during the war and after. Recreation
workers will be particularly interested in chapters en—
titled “Subject Fields in Wartime Education,” “Educa-
tion and the Nati0nal Morale,” “School and Community
in \Vartime.” and “Democratic Human Relationships in

the School.”

Official Lacrosse Guide 1943.

Edited by Albert A. Brisotti. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $.50.
This guide contains the ofiicial rules of the United

States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association, together with
a number of articles, 1942 College Records and Player

Rosters.

Fools and Foolishness.

By Harry C. McKown. School Activities Publish-
Ing Company, Topeka, Kansas. $2.00

Many inventors from the beginning of time have had
to endure ridicule for their ideas and‘ to hear themselves
called “fools.” In this book Mr. McKown tells of the
contributions made to modern progress by a number of
great men and women of history whose inventions once
labeled them “fools” and their efforts “foolishness.”
Mr. McKown very effectively urges an attitude of toler-
ance toward new ideas—“an ‘attitude which admits the
possibilities of all innovations but which at the same
time evaluates any such seriously, honestly, and deliber-
ately.” It is interesting to note that among his list of
“other unfinished foolishness” Mr. McKown includes
recreation facilities for all.

Toward Community Understanding.

By Gordon W. Blackwell. American Council on
Education, Washington, D. C. $.75.

Following a trip through sixteen colleges, Dr. Gordon
W. Blackwell has made a report on the extent to which
an effort is being made to promote an understanding on
the part of a teacher of the society of which he, his
school, and his pupils are a part. Examples are given of

a number of interesting approaches to community under-
standing.

Softball for Girls.

By Viola Mitchell, M.A. Barnes Dollar Sports Li-
brary. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

With softball for girls and women a major sport, an
up—to—date instruction book on the subject has a definite

place to fill. In addition to the chapters on techniques and
rules to be found in Miss Mitchell’s book, there is a

detailed history of the sport. An added feature is a base-
ball glossary in which is defined the diamond’s pictur-
esque phraseology.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association
OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, \Vashington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
I'IENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, “Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston. Mass.
OTTO T. NIALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

