“THE war now has to be fought—it has become a

necessity in order that freedom may not be lost
on the earth. Victory for freedom we must have, and
it can only come through the ways we know, now that
war is here. But I beg you, when you are being
forced by the ways of war to do the things which
contradict all that you have been taught in the years
of peace, that you will not allow civilization to die in
you. . . . Today your country thinks of you as soldiers
—it may need you as soldiers. But that is a temporary
need. There will be another and more permanent
need—the need for you to help rebuild your country
worn with war, whose ciyilization is shaken and half
destroyed. . . . When war is done with us, we shall
sorely need those men in whom the light of civiliza-

tion still burns. Be those men!”

Pearl Buck in Men of Tomorrow.

THE SUNSHINE FAIRY

By JOSEPH LEE

POOR WOMAN lived in a log but up on a mountain. She had to

work hard from morning till night, cooking and sewing, keeping
house for her husband and her four grown-up sons, and looking after her
little daughter, Jeanie. She never sang or laughed or read a story, never
listened to the birds or watched the beautiful changes of the woods. Her
life seemed one steady, never-ending grind.

One day her little daughter said to her: “Mother, may I run out and
sit by the spring a little while?” The mother answered: “Why do you
want to sit by the spring?” But her little daughter could not tell her any
reason, so she answered: “No. You wash those dishes and then sew that
sheet I gave you. And don’t go sitting by the spring. Life is for work and
not for idleness.”

So Jeanie washed the dishes and then took up the sheet and began
her sewing. But the poor mother was so tired she had to lie down a little
while and rest; and as she lay there, she heard her daughter saying: “Dear
Fairy Sunbeam, I am so sorry. I wanted so to come as I promised, but
my mother would not let me, and I could not tell her about you as she
would have punished me for telling lies. And now you will never come
again, and I am so lonely and so tired. I have nobody to play with any
more.”

And then the mother saw herself as a little girl, and she was sitting
in the sunlight by the spring. And standing before her was a beautiful
fairy with the sunlight shining through her golden hair and the fairy was
telling her a wonderful story about knights and dragons and a beautiful
princess in a shining palace in a wood. And then she heard her own
mother’s voice calling her: “Jeanie, come in. What keeps you dawdling
by the spring? This world is for work and not for idleness.” And she
got up and left the spring, and the house door closed on her and_she never
saw the fairy any more.

And the mother woke up and found she had been crying in her sleep,
and she called her daughter and said: “Jeanie, you may go out to the
spring.” 3

9 Cycle of a Home Game‘th

Threatened by a Blitzkrieg

By RUTH HOGARTH BURRITT

Mine is

“A house not made

By hands” but by the touch

Of household spirits that have dwelt
Within.

It was
A shell at first,

Forbidding, holding me
Far off. I could not wholly call
It home.

Upon
Its window seat
A baby played. We three

Were drawn within the orbit of
The house.

Down on

Its floors are marks

Where kiddie cars and trains
Ran swiftly to their goal or left
Their tracks.

The stairs

Were polished once.

The march of little feet

From porch to attic playroom left

Them rough.

Paint has
Covered finger
Marks for many a year.

They still are visible through all

Veneer.

Each year
Before a fire
Stockings hung. Over night

A tree grew gaudy fruit and glowed
With light.

 

AUGUST I943

 

Sometimes

Through sickness hearts

Stood still. Then no words known
Were half so dear as these, “Your child

Is well.”

Where once
I watched their play,
Now books and pottery

And gleaming kitchen shelves shall claim

My time.
With glass

A porch became
A sunny garden plot

When all without was desolate
And cold.

Twice loved
My furniture,
As antiques, piece bypiece,

Torn from fond hands by fate here four.

Repose.

Ilove
This house of mine,
Its beauty overlaid,

Like patina, with wear of hands
And feet.

If this

Goes up in flame,

I still shall hold it fast,

For I shall find it shining in
My heart.

 

All rights reserved.
Not to be reprinted.

d

253

Courtney Department of Parks, New York City

RECREATION

 

Recreation in a Democracy at War

E HEAR MUCH these days
w about the importance of

recreation as a part "of
the war effort. Every man in
the street understands that the
public morale is an essential
part of the unity of effort for
the defense of a great nation.
It is said that both soldiers and
civilians must be given an out-
let through recreation to relieve the strain of the
times.

But recreation strikes deeper into the lives of all
of us than merely as a wartime measure to keep
the public mind steady and united behind the war
effort. We must remember that in a democracy
military preparedness is only a means to a greater
end.

We marvel at the attitude of the Nazi soldier
who considers himself as a part of a machine, re-
sponding to the touch of the guiding hand. Recre-
ation, of a sort, played an important part in the
building up of this seemingly invincible machine
of men. Since their beginning the Nazi and Fas-
cist States have given special attention to the rec—
reation needs of youth. Through the “Hitler
Youth” and similar organizations, the philosophy
of physical superiority has been implanted in the
younger generation. Thus great emphasis has been
placed on physical sports, with the so-called “war
games” predominating. No doubt the public
morale has been built up and maintained success—
fully by well-calculated recreation, and we may
learn much from the totalitarian states.

But the obvious objective of this recreation pro-
gram has been military efficiency. It overlooks the
fact that every soldier and every civilian has more
than a body to be trained for superior fighting
power. It does not recognize that every individual

has a mind and a soul which he will need if he is‘

to be happy, and which the democratic state will
need if it is to be a great peacetime nation. A
healthy body is an important part of a human
being, But without a mind and a soul it is nothing
more than a sword, valuable only while there is
someone with intelligence to wield it and there
is a worthy cause to fight for.

In our defense program we need more than
sound bodies and machines. We need minds that

AUGUST 1943

By J. LEE BROWN

"We Americans have appointed our-
selves the arsenal of military de-
fense for democracy. Let us also
be the arsenal of defense for the
mind and soul behind democracy."

 

are keen and alert, and souls
that have faith in democratic
ideals, and courage to defend
them as individuals instead of
as military robots.

In a radio program several
months ago, the American As-
sociation of “Museums drama—
tized the story of art as affected
by the 'Industrial Revolution in
England. Amid the squalid tenements of London
was depicted an impoverished young landscape
painter, bewildered by the relentless Speed of the
new industrial machines, and by their crushing
weight on the creative spirit of the workers who
operated them. While imprisoned because of debt,
he had a vision into the Twentieth Century, in
which he saw men working in the designing rooms
of an aircraft factory, their creative minds bent on
the designing of new warplanes, like those heard
roaring overhead on missions of destruction. He
was overwhelmed by the feeling that civilization
was rushing onward under a master made of
gears and wheels and roaring motors—rushing on-
ward to a world where man had “lost all gentle-
ness,” where there was no time to notice or to
paint the field laden with dew and glistening in
the morning sun, no time for man to keep his
mind and soul alive.

Was this vision of a bewildered painter of the
Nineteenth Century true? Are we the creative
master .of a world of machines, or is the machine
our master?

We of today know full well that we cannot keep
our minds and souls alive unless we insure the
liberty of the individual. Thus we throw our every
effort into the building of a gigantic war machine
and the mustering of physical strength. But in the
building of the machine, let us be sure that it does
not become the master and destroy the precious
things we fight for.

Don’t let us think of recreation merely as a
means to build strong bodies and physical stamina
for battle. Let us think of rte-creation in the broader
sense, as a means to richer living. Let us prepare
our strength for the crisis of war. But, also, let us
sharpen our minds and our spirit with a keener
appreciation of the things which the poor painter

(Continued on page 305)

 

255

A Summer Recreation Program

gram so successful that it attracted much
favorable comment throughout the state. And
yet so simple was the program that it can be
easily duplicated by many other small communities.

It began when Munro McPhetres, physical edu-
cation teacher in the Salida public schools, was
employed by the Board of Education for ten weeks
during the summer. He was accompanied once a
week by his wife who‘ helped with the story hour.
N 0 other paid workers were provided.

Salida’s three playgrounds were considered too
sunny for all-day use so Alpine Park, which is
located in the center of the town, was used almost
exclusively. City officials voted $25 to assist in
the buying of equipment ; other expenses were met
by the Board of Education.

Each Monday morning Mr. McPhetres opened
activities at Alpine Park with checkers, dominoes,

I AST SUMMER Salida carried out a recreation pro-

Softball is also popular in East Orange.
New JerseyI where members of the League
made their uniforms on the playgrounds

 

Courtesy of East Orange Board of Recreation Commissioner:

256

for a Small Community

This is the story of the play-
grounds in Salida. ColoradoI a
mountain town of 5.000 people

By L. A. BURNETT, Ph.D.

Superintendent of Schools

wire puzzles, “T” puzzles, and similar quiet games
for those who did not care for strenuous activity.
At the same time, in another part of the park, he
conducted deck tennis, lawn bowling, quoits, vol-
leyball, table tennis and a variety of other games
going on simultaneously. He was careful to see
that interest did not wane in any of the games,
and as soon as any slackening of enthusiasm was
apparent other games were substituted.

Every Monday afternoon games of softball, in
which leagues were formed, were conducted at the

city ball park. Games for older boys were held for
those between 12

and 17 years of
age, while later
in the afternoon
a separate league
for children from
9 to I3 played
games. Then
came the team of
the younger chil—
dren under Mr.
McPhetres’ di-
rection.

Monday morn-
ings, in a quiet
corner of the
park, Mrs. Mc-
Phetres gather-
ed all the little
children in the
vicinity and con-
ducted a story

(Continued on
page 299)

RECREATION

A Clinking and a Cianking Down in Memphis!

“Bum, Bum, Bum, Here we come, come, come
For the children of the Park are on Parade
With a Captain fine, 'we are all in line
And we call ourselves the Playground Brigade.

With drum and a pan, and an Old Tin Can

And we beat a tune with stick that never lags

For we’ve stopped our play on this Special Day
- And we’re out to show some 'honor to the Flag.

So hurrah for the flag, and long may it wave

O’er the Land of the Free and the home of the Brave
Loyal and true may We ever be

To the flag that stands for Liberty.”

OR so MANY YEARS that the author of these
F lines has been forgotten, the children of the

Memphis playgrounds have lustin sung these
words as they marched in little neighborhood
parades on each weekly “Special Day,” but this
year they have taken on a new significance: Tin
cans are not beaten with a stick, but carefully col«
lected and placed on the ever-growing playground
pile for Uncle Sam.

Not even “Mr. Brink,” the beloved mascot of
Brinkley Playground, is allowed to come within
snuffing distance of a tin can; they are whisked
right by him.

With the Memphis playgrounds’ summer proj-
ect, “A Salute to Our Armed Forces—On the
Land— In the Air -— Over the Water,” and with
each playground representing some branch of the
service in all their various activities, the children
are cooperating wholeheartedly with the nation’s
wartime program.

Each of the twenty-one playgrounds for white
children and the ten for colored has an attractive
' tin can collection center, where the children were
to deposit the cans each week on “Special Day.”
The idea has grown so that the cans are received
daily and have become almost a password for the
playground activities.

Would you attend the playground circus? Bring
a can ! Would you enjoy the

member that he can’t go in without a can!

The tin cans are collected from the playground
once a week by the Bottlers Exchange, which pre-
sents a $25.00 war bond each month to the
child who collects the most tin cans, and an addi-
tional $25.00 war bond to the child who collects
the largest number during the season. In addition,
the manager of a local moving picture theater pre-
sents the boy and girl on each playground who
collects the largest number of tin cans with two
passes to the show.

The playground making the largest collection of
tin cans during the month is awarded a $25.00
war bond by the Memphis Salvage Commission,
and the playground making the largest collection
for the total time the playgrounds are open will be
given a $50.00 bond. The playground directors
keep the individual playground records as a part
of their war job and make a report to the Recrea—
tion Office at the weekly staff meeting.

The boy and girl from each playground who
turn in the largest number of tin cans during the
summer playground season will become “Tin Can
Prince” and “Tin Can Princess” of his and her
particular playground. At the annual playground
festival in August, one boy and one girl from this
group will be acclaimed “King and Queen” of the
1943 summer playground tin'can campaign and
will be crowned by the Mayor of Memphis.

Since the Memphis playgrounds are on their
“metal,” it is but natural that they would turn
from tin to copper, nickel and silver! Special
Day on each playground finds a long line of chil-
dren and adults with a tin can in one hand and a
coin in the other! From the little barefoot boy
who invests his whole capital of five cents per
week, collecting a ten—cent war stamp every sec—
ond week, to the capitalist who purchases a
$5,000 war bond for his small granddaughter, they

are all there!

playground pet show? Bring
a can! Would you see the
playground performance of
Robin Hood? Bring two

cans!

Even the wading pool is
almost forbidden to the
child who does not re-

AUGUST 1943

The story of the salvage campaign being
waged this summer "down in Memphis,II is
told by Martha Macon Byrnes. a member of
the staff of the Recreation Department
of the Park Commission. Miss Byrnes
also reports on the very active war stamp
and bond sales being conducted. During
the first four weeks of the playground
season sales amounted to $7,633.65.

The Memphis summer
playground program not
only. sponsors the tin can
collection but the weekly
sale of war stamps and
bonds on each playground.
A gay little “Stamp and
Bond” booth has been

257

258 A CLINKING AND A CLANKING DOWN IN MEMPHIS!

 

erected on each playground by the children and
directors, and each booth competes for honors at
the play festival, Unlike the tin can campaign,
there are no awards offered in the stamp and bond
sale, but the “admission” idea has crept across the
playground on tiptoe, and instead of being free, as
formerly, the weekly Special Day programs are
now “for free,” and the purchase of at least a ten—
cent war stamp is required for admission! How-
ever, there is a “hush-hush” committee quietly
working on the side, and no one is actually barred
from entrance to the play program.

Carefully kept weekly reports are turned in to
the Recreation Office by the playground directors,
who are ably assisted by playground committees,
and the Recreation Office has on display four
charts attractively painted in red, white and blue,
where the weekly progress of the war bond and
stamp and the Tin Can campaigns are posted.

Each playground has selected as its objective
for the summer season the purchase of a piece of
equipment for the branch of the armed service that
it represents. The outline of this equipment is
painted on the little “Buy a Bond” booth, and as
the sales progress the outline is filled in, signify-
ing “victory” for that playground—just a step
ahead of the ultimate victory of our Allied Nations.

Courtesy Hagerstozvn, Maryland, Playground:

Other cities, too, are conducting salvage cam-
paigns this summer:

Hobo Salvage Day was held last month on each
of the playgrounds of Hagerstown, “Maryland. The
purpose, which the children achieved with great
success, was to collect old felt hats and sweaters to
be used in craft work. And they were also con-
cerned with securing, for Uncle Sam, as many old
silk stockings as possible.

On July 8, 1943, the children arrived for a
planned parade through their neighboring commu-
nity, adorned with old felt hats on their heads, old
sweaters, and carrying broomstick canes, sticks to
which were attached bundles of old, clean silk
stockings. Two by two they formed a parade line
with the flag carrier in the lead, followed by small
drum corps, the basket carriers, and the Hobo
Corps. Stopping at intervals, they sang the Marine
Hymn, Army Air Corps song, etc. People through
local papers had been asked to cooperate in the
salvage drive, and as the hobos paraded —big
hobos, little ones—in their fantastic original cos-
tumes, great interest was shown. Hundreds upon
hundreds of silk stockings have been turned over
to the Washington County Salvage Committee
through the collection.

(Continued on page 299)
RECREATION

Don't Ration Fun!

 THESE “WORKINGrFOR-VICTORY” days when
I i'everything‘from shoes to sugar is rationed,
what could be more appropriate for an evening
of gaiety than a Ration Party? Invite your friends
and neighbors over for this ingenious affair at
which everything will
be rationed except fun
and enjoyment!
Invitations in the
form of “almost real”
war ration books will
help start the party off
on its timely way. A
piece of heavy white
paper, 12” x 4” can
be folded in the mid—
dle to serve as the ra-
tion book cover. In
the upper right hand
corner draw a stamp
with the eagle seal of the “Office of Good Fun.”
The rest of the cover can read something like this
in bold red and blue letters: “War Ration Book,
Invitation to John Jones, for a Ration Party -—
Warning: Bring this Book with you!”

I'hVitilttOh To

On the inside of the cover write a poem some-
thing like this:
“We can’t have all we had before
But parties have not gone to war.

Although it is the current fashion,
Fun is one thing we must not ration.”

Below the poem indicate the time, date, and
place of your party.

You’ll want to include in the invitations those
precious ration coupons with

 

 

\A/aY Ration Boo K

RATIO/v PARTY

Warming: Brow; this book; Wit-11 you.

Be sure to try this ration
'p.arty it you want really up-
to-the-minute entertainment

the door and suspend apples, oranges, pears, and
other fresh fruits from it. Signs on either side
may contain such nonsense rhymes as —

“Help yourself to this fresh fruit,

Your. appetite it should suit.

N o ration stamp need you
turn in,

Eat your fill and still stay
thin.”

Scattered through—
out other‘rooms, more
strings might hold up
cardboard sugar cubes,
coffee cups, pictures
of butter and other ra-
tioned articles, with
signs saying,

“Once we had plenty of
sugar and coffee,

But‘ we’re giving ours to
the boys overseas.

So if you want food that you Ihad before,
You must 'bring stamps to the grocery store.”

. l

      
    

For the windows and walls, cut out crepe paper
tomatoes, lettuce, peas, radishes, and other victory
garden products. On the crepe paper table cloth
used for refreshments more of these patterns may
be used. Napkins can be cut to resemble another
rationed article—shoes—and the number 18 should
be written on them.

Convert waste paper baskets and light fixtures
into your favorite canned foodstuffs by covering
them with paper cylinders indicating their con—
tents by drawing facsimiles of familiar brands of

soup, vegetables, fruit, and

 

which your guests will “pur- ________._"_______‘___ meat, etc.

chase” refreshments at the L _5 I ,  A simple bulletin board may
party. Slip inside the cover a g  : E} be set up for pictures of m-
6” x 4” sheet of paper ruled ‘ E 3 3; " ' I tioned articles, latest news on
off in three rows each contain- I, Egg. 3 “r”  rationing, and a chart giving
ing six numbered stamps. The I —"__:.._.._—.— M.-. _“'_:__—::“:.__—_i the number of points needed
first row can be all I point   for each item in the refresh-
coupons, the second marked ‘5  l EVE—l ment list.

for 2 points each, and the third 2: l r: l “:L" 1

line will have the number 3  —_;-_ E4: :3  Party Games
marked on the stamps. l :3: __' ( :“-———W What Am I? And now for

 

Decorations? Why, yes, in-
deed! But keep them simple.
You can extend a string across

AUGUST 1943“

No refreshments—it you're unlucky
and lose your precious ration card!

 

your Ration Party games
which will have priority over
everything else! Just to ' get

259

260 DON’T RATION FUN!

things started off on the right foot—and to be
sure that everyone meets and knows everyone else
—try this variation of the old “Who Am I?” game.

As the guests enter the door, hand each a slip
with the name of a rationed product on it—coffee,
tea, beef, butter, gasoline, sugar. Caution each not
to disclose his identity. Guests will then mingle
with the group for a period of about ten minutes,
questioning others to iind out their identity. All
answers must be by pantomime or “yes” or “no.”
At the end of the period each person will hand
in lists with the names and identity of as many
guests as he is able to discover. The longest
list wins.

Shortage Skits. Everyone is wondering nowa-
days what his neighbor is doing about the gas short-
age, victory gardening, or
“meatless” meals. Here’s
a game that will provide
most of the answers for
your curious guests:

Divide the group into
two casts. Each will
prepare a skit on

what they would

do as a result

of the ration—

ing of some

product

Everything

must be done in pantomime and the opposite side

guesses the rationed article that is being presented.

The side which conceals the identity of the prod-
uct the longest wins.

  
 
 
 
 
  

 

Victovy Carib-u Skit

Ration Geography. Here’s a new one! Supply
your guests with pencil and paper. Have them list
the names and sources of products which are on
the rationed and shortage list, including only those
foods and materials which were formerly imported
in large quantities. Here are a few sources and
products which might be included:

South America: sugar cane, coffee, cotton, to-
bacco, wheat, rubber, cacao, nitrate, borax, tin,
meat, wool. East Indies: rubber, sugar, spices,
coffee, various gums, tea, petroleum, tin. Japan:
raw silk, tea, sugar, paper, copper. India: sugar,
tea, indigo, rubber, coal, lead, petroleum, coffee.
Australia: wool, frozen meats, hides, tallow, sugar
cane, cotton, iron, lead, leather, shoe manufactures,
tin. Germany: beet sugar, chemicals, electrical
goods, timber, coal, copper. Russia: wheat, man-
ganese, chrome, furs, hides, petroleum, wood pulp,

and paper, timber, glass, iron and steel, copper,
asbestos.

Fruit Basket. Right about this time your guests
will be in the mood for a lively game with a
victory garden theme and Fruit Basket should till
the bill adequately. Seat everyone in a circle, giv—
ing each person the name of arfruit. The leader
stands in the center and calls out two fruits at a
time. If he calls “pear and apple,” the persons
with those names immediately rush for each other’s
seats while the leader tries to reach one of the
seats first. The person left without a chair is next
leader. From time to time the leader may call out
“fruit basket upset,” and everyone must change
seats while the leader tries to get a chair.

Song Quiz. A melody game is always fun! Place
a number of miniature objects, as suggested below,
on a table. Announce to your guests that one by
one they are to choose one, display it, and suggest
some song that the object reminds them of. Some-
times the guest may suggest a song entirely dif—
ferent from the composition named here, but one
equally appropriate for the object he has in hand.
If the group likes to sing, have them present their
suggestions in vocal form! Here is a suggested

list of objects and songs they represent:

An old colored doll—Old Black Joe

A slice of rye bread with a stick of candy run
through it——Coming Thru the Rye

A bit of Scotch plaid—Annie Laurie

A miniature log cabin—My Old Kentucky Home

A bit of lavender and old lace—Auld Lang Syne

A little dog——-Where, O'h Where Has My Little Dog
Gone?

A small mouse—Three Blind Mice

Picture of a Spanish girl—Juanita
Green paper rose—~My Wild Irish Rose
A bell—Jingle Bells

More Games

"Gasless" Travel. Gas may be rationed, but this
game of transportation includes only those modes
of travel requiring no coupons. Guests are seated
in rows of chairs opposite each other but with
plenty of room between. Each person in a row is
given the name of some means of transportation-—
horse, bicycle, buggy, mule, kiddy kar, camel,
train, and roller skates. Both rows are given names
from the same list. When everyone has been
named, the leader calls out one of these names
perhaps “Buggy,” and the “Buggy” from each
row walks around the row and back to his seat.
The first one in his seat gains one point for his
row. This continues until all the names have been

RECREATION

DON’T RATION FUN! 261

called. For the last, round, the leader calls “Air-
plane,” and the entire team walks around the row
and back to their seats.

Priority, Please. Have you ever petitioned for a
priority on a rationed article? Well, here’s a
chance for you and your guests to do so right now!

Give each person a pencil and paper on which he
is to write the name of a famous person. The name
is folded over and passed to the person at the left,
who writes the name of the article he’s petitioning
for. The sheets continue to be folded over and
passed to the left as each person adds successively
the use he wishes to make of the article and the
reason for the petition. When the sheets are passed
for the last time, each guest reads aloud the peti-
tion he has. It might read: “Mickey Rooney peti-
tions for a pair of silk stockings to bake a cake
with because I work in a defense factory.”

To Ration or Not to Ration. Here’s a game that
will have your guests searching every which way
for those hard-to-get articles. Hide various prod-
ucts or pictures of rationed and non-rationed arti-
cles in the room. Allow guests three minutes to
search for them. At the end of this time, each
person must present the articles to either one of
two tables, marked with “ration” and “non-ra-
tioned” signs.

Five points will be given for each rationed article
turned in, while two points will be subtracted for
each non-rationed article. Guests will be penalized
two points for each article they turn in to the
wrong table, Person with the highest point total
wins.

Jockey Relay. Because getting places by auto-
mobiles is now a thing of the past, the horse may
come into his own again. Here is a jockey relay:

Teams line up in parallel files behind a starting
line. Fifteen feet in front of each one is a chair or
other marker which serves as “the post” or goal.

Players straddle a ten-

cent-store broom and race

to the goal, circle it, and
come back to place. There
they dismount and turn
over the “horse” to the
next rider.

An Obstacle Course.

To impress your guests

with the value of
rationed articles
place a number of
rationed foods or

"ever the chuck gawk clothing, such as a

AUGUST 1943

 

bowl of sugar, a box of coffee or a pair of shoes, at
regular intervals across the Hoor. Then select one
guest to hurdle the obstacle course.

To show your victim you are really not so bad
at heart, tell him you’ll let him try out the course
first to judge the height of the objects and the dis-
tance between them. Then blindfold him and in-
struct him to walk back over the course. Natur-
ally, you are not going to let him damage your
precious rationed articles, so while you are blind-
folding him have someone remove the objects.
The victim will high-step in exaggerated style over

' the imaginary objects. The people on the side lines

help steer him and con-
gratulate him heartily as
he gets safely over each of
the non-existent objects.

Ration Songs. Before
the line forms to the right
for refreshments have
your guests think of song
titles that are related to
the wartime situation.
Going around the room,
each one will offer his
contribution. Here are
some suggested titles to
get things started:

 

a...— Guess VJHit' Sgt-.1.“

Get Out and Get Under Old MacDonald Had a Farm
Bicycle Built for Two Oats, Peas, Beans and
Pack Up Your Troubles Barley Grow
I’ve Been Working on the Harvest Moon

Railroad Chattanooga Choo—Choo
The Old Grey Mare

Refreshments, at Last !

And now the hostess announces that the corner

grocery store is open and anyone wishing to “buy”
refreshments must present his ration book. Guests

will use the numbered coupons in their invitations.
Refreshments will be placed on tables with signs
in front indicating how many points are needed for
each food.

Huge bowls of fruit and vegetable salads can
serve as the nucleus of your rationed refreshments
—two points for a generous helping. Little dessert
cakes made with honey instead of sugar will cost
your guests five points each—or you can trade a
few of these “goodies” for a new recipe for a
honey cake.

Bright glasses of fresh fruit juices will attract
the thirsty—at three points a glass. Here again

(Continued on page 304)

Music on the Playground

dren on playgrounds is a

“natural.” All of the values
attributed to informal group
singing are manifested in this
setting, for the free, relaxed
spirit of the playground is
peculiarly conducive to pro-
ducing the greatest amount of
enjoyment, the completest
sense of group cooperation
and the most spontaneous
self-expression. Here the child
sings solely because he wants
to. There is no element of compulsion or super-
vision or working for a grade or any other kind of
restrictive influence that is sometimes evident in
school. He sings for fun, for the same reason that
he plays ball or skins the cat, and one activity is
just as natural as the other he finds, sometimes to
his surprise and delight. :'

INFORMAL SINGING by chil-

Leadership

Leadership of playground music does not re-
quire any advanced degree of musical skill nor any
extended formal training, Anyone who likes to
sing and can sing a little, who knows some songs,
and who goes about the matter in the right way
can be a playground music leader and a successful
one. In fact, the lack of formal training and in-
doctrination in certain methods and techniques
may be a distinct advantage.

Although highly skilled leadership is not neces-
sary, more aptitude for music than is to be found
in many playground leaders is required. Those
leaders who cannot actually handle music activi-
ties themselves can contribute a great deal to the
program. They can help to create the environ-
ment which is important for music and can co-
operate with the music leader in many ways.

In order to have a continuous and effective music
program on the playground, three things are essen-
tial: (1) leadership, (2) a program, (3) the train-
ing of the leaders to carry out the program.

The Plan

The following plan suggests a simple and prac-
tical way of providing these three things:
First, a leader to train the playground leaders

262

By ARTHUR TODU

Music Department
Westchester County Recreation Commission

l'lnformal singing has the distinct advan-
tage over most other playground activi-
ties of requiring no equipment' and of
giving all ages an opportunity to partici-
pate together equally. It never wears
out for there is an infinite fund of songs
of all kinds. and it is not dependent on
favorable weather conditions or on the
number of children present. There is, how-

ever, one requirement —— leadership.”

must be found. This leader,
or trainer, should hold regu-
lar weekly training confer-
ences with the other leaders.
In any community there are
several people who can qualify
for this job. Any school music
teacher, private teacher, older
music student home from
college, church choir director
or anyone who has had music
training can be a successful
trainer, take charge of the
weekly training conferences
and use the material which is Suggested subse-
quently, Two hours a week will be all of the time
required for this service, although it would be ad—
vantageous if the trainer visited the playgrounds
occasionally to see how the leaders were making
out. If the trainer will help find leaders for the
playgrounds and assume general supervision of
the program, success is practically assured.

The second thing required is leadership for each
playground. Those of the paid staff of playground
leaders who are able to handle the music should
attend the music training conferences and be re‘
sponsible for the program on their playgrounds.
Volunteer leaders will have to be found for the
playgrounds where the regular leaders are unable
to carry on the music program. These volunteer
leaders or trainees may be recruited from various
sources. Members of choirs, former school teach-
ers, and music students are examples. On every
playground and in every neighborhood there are
a few boys and girls of high school or even junior
high age who are talented in music and who have
qualities of leadership. The school music teachers
can suggest candidates. The children themselves
can name the good singers in the neighborhood.

One of the best possible arrangements would be
to have an adult leader, either the regular play-
ground leader or a volunteer, and one or two
talented older children attend the weekly training
conferences and work together in the program.
These leaders, a trainer and the trainees, may be
discovered through newspaper stories describing
the need, talks with school teachers, choir direct-

ors, private teachers and other musicians in the
community.

RECREATION

MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND 263

Each trainee will be asked to devote a minimum
of four hours a week to the work. Two hours will
be Spent in the training conference and two on a

playground.

The Program

The program of playground music is built
around weekly sings, and each week there is a
different program. In the training conferences the
leaders become familiar with the songs and other
activities on the program, discuss their problems
and plan the events. During the week, with the
assistance of the younger leaders, the children pre-
pare for the coming sing. If possible, they should
sing every day the songs which are to be sung at
the weekly sing, learn them, and prepare for the
other parts of the music program.

The material for the sings is built around differ-
ent themes such as “My Country at War,” “Fun
and Nonsense,” “Ships and Sailormen,” “Songs
for Girls,” “Songs for Boys,” “Workers,” Cow-
boys,” and “Nature.” The reason for this arrange-
ment is that it makes possible a natural correlation
with these different topics which have a strong ap—
peal to boys and girls. Other playground activities
such as storytelling, dramatics, arts and crafts, can
be integrated with many of these themes and can
be used in the sing program.

Another advantage of such a classification of
songs is that it offers a means of capturing the in-
terest of the children, particularly those who need
some encouragement to join in. All boys are inter-
ested in cowboys and the stories of the West.
Many will have seen real cowboys and can describe
their costumes and life. No doubt all will have
seen many western movies. A discussion about
cowboys leads very naturally into the singing of
cowboy ballads and the learning of new ones.

The Units

The “Units,” as each kit is called, contains ma- ‘

terial for a program lasting from thirty to forty
minutes. They may be used as written or the
leader may choose certain songs and substitute
others. They are designed for the average play-
ground where there are boys and girls from five
to sixteen years of age.

The units can be used in any order desired, but
it is suggested that “My County at War” be the
first because the thirteen songs in this group, the
words of which are mimeographed on a sheet, are
almost all familiar and are “sure-fire.” The songs
are: “The Star-Spangled Banner”; “Battle Hymn

AUGUST 1943

of the Republic”; “Anchors Aweigh”; “The Cais-
son Song”; “Johnny Zero”; “When Johnny
Comes Marching Home”; “America, the Beauti-
ful”; “The Marines’ Hymn”; “The Army Air
Corps”; “Marching Along Together”; “Comin’ in

S on a Wing and a Prayer”; “This Is the Army,

Mr. Jones”; and “Ev’rybody, Ev’ry Pay Day.”
Each Unit contains the following:

A number of familiar songs which everyone will
know.

Two or three unfamiliar songs to be learned.

The majority of the songs are suitable for all ages
to sing together.

A few songs for games, folk dances or dramatiza-
tions.

One or more songs suitable for different age groups
or for boys or girls alone.

A variety of songs such as popular, humorous, old
timers; rhythmic, and songs which express dif-
ferent moods. Thus, although all of the songs in
each unit come under a particular topic, they are
contrasting in style and Spirit.

How to Use the Units

At the first sing the leader will introduce the
theme of the program and song sheets will be
passed out. As the songs are sung the leader will
make appropriate comments and talk to the Chil-
dren about the content of the song, the Spirit of
it, what it means or tell a story related to the song.
The children, too, should be encouraged to com-
ment and to make suggestions. There should not
be too much talking, of course, and it should all
be interesting and informal, always aimed to make
the singing more significant and meaningful, but
never critical or technical.

At the conclusion of the sing the leader may
announce that next weeks songs will be about
“Workers,” or whatever it may be. She may tell
something about some of the songs to be sung and
even sing one of the unfamiliar ones. Something
should be said to arouse the group’s interest in
the next program, The periods for meeting to
learn the new songs, and the meetings of Special
groups who are to work out a dramatization or
stunt for next week’s program should be an-
nounced. As much preparation for the next pro-
gram as possible should be made.

The song sheets for the next unit should be
given to the playground director, to a junior music
leader or to whomever is going to meet with the
children during the week. Song sheets which have
been used at the present sing Should be collected
and kept by the playground director. These Should

264 MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND

be available for use whenever a group of children
want to sing over some of the songs. This is
equipment, like balls and bats, to be used when-
ever desired.

Leadership

Some time should be spent at each training con-
ference in a discussion of leadership, the qualities
that are desirable, the methods which work best
and attain the desired objectives.

Here are a few general and specific suggestions
based upon experience and observation of play-
ground music leadership.

Attitude. The leader’s attitude is inevitably
sensed by the children and is reflected in their re-
actions. She must not feel embarrassed or self-
conscious, but should be relaxed and have a good
time all the time herself, no matter what happens.
On the playground many distracting and annoy-
ing little things can happen, But most of them
should not be noticed. Fussing always defeats the
purpose and kills the spirit. Remember, one ob-
j ective is to get everyone to participate on the level
of his interest and ability. It may be necessary to
sacrifice the quality or desired discipline some-
times in order to attain this objective, but in the
long run, more quality in the singing and a better
kind of discipline is achieved if the spirit is always
one of informality, fun and freedom. When things
aren’t going well, laugh! If the discipline is too
bad, end the session quickly and leave, but leave
in a friendly spirit.

The Approach. The leader who comes to the
playground, sits down with a group of children
and simply starts to talk to them, bringing a song
into the conservation, will attract the children
around her. They will be curious to hear what
she is saying and singing. Before long all of the
children on the grounds will be gathered around
her. She sings them a song or two, talks a little,
asks a few questions, perhaps, and before they
know it they are singing a familiar song with her.
There has been no formal introduction, no ex-
planation of what it is all about, no insisting that
everyone participate. The
children have come of their
own volition out of curios-
ity, If they stay it is because
they are interested and want
to. There is no restraint of
any kind.

In the course of the sing-
ing time the leader can in-

The weekly sing period, Mr. Todd has sug-
gestedI is a good time for the regular sale
of war stamps which many playgrounds are
carrying on. Children who want to buy
stamps may be given an opportunity to do
so at the end of the program. "Relating
this valuable kind of participation in the
war effort to the group spirit engendered
by singing gives it real significance."

troduce herself, explain what she has in mind for
future gatherings, discuss programs and get sug—
gestions and pave the way for the next visit, to
which the children will look forward with keen
anticipation.

If the children do not respond wholeheartedly,
analyze what you have been ‘doing and try to dis-
cover the reasons. It is not because that particular
group of children does not like to sing for there
is no group of children who will not sing when the
environment and Spirit is right. It may be that the
fault lay in the selection of songs, in your own
lack of sincerity, your embarrassment or affected
manner, or it may be that the behavior of one or
two individuals distracts attention or perverts the
free, natural spirit of the group. Perhaps it was
the time of day, or the place—too near the street
or a ball game. Possibly there was not enough
variety, or too much time was spent on a particular
song or subject. Any of these things can account
for failure. However, normally good results can
be expected and will be forthcoming. It is true
that some playgrounds present more difficulties
than others, These are due to specific causes which
can be found and corrected. On the whole, the
response and enthusiasm of the children will be
excellent.

Preparation. Preparation consists in knowing
what you are going to do every minute of the
period, having a plan and a program, and then
being prepared to throw it all away and adapt
yourself to the circumstances that you find!

It is important that you know a few songs from
memory. If it is a singing game you are going to
teach, know the directions perfectly and know the
song.

Be prepared with the stories, comments, stunts,
and ways of varying the singing that you want to
use.

Real freedom, ease, and flexibility can be gained
only on the basis of this kind of preparation. With-
out it comes a lack of confidence that leads to self—
consciousness, criticism, repetition and dullness
that kills the fun and destroys the groups enthusi-

asm. Keep it moving all

the time.

A list of do’s and dont’s
for song leaders which lead—
ers and teachers in Alabama
have received from Mr. Al-
ton O’Steen, State Super-
visor of Music, summarizes

RECREATION

very well the important points of leadership:

Have a good time yourself, Relax. Never fuss.

Get singable songs of every kind. A “good”
song is one that folks like to sing.

Know your songs from memory, especially new
ones.

Plan the sequence of songs in advance. There
is plenty of room for “inspiration” within a plan.

When things aren’t going well, laugh. When
things are going well, stop singing and listen.

Keep your comments and suggestions to a mini—
mum; make them in time and “in tune” with song
you’re singing.

Use the “old timers” but don’t overwork them.
A new song at every “sing” is a good rule.

Analyze new songs briefly by pointing out repe—
titions, unusual turns in the melody, etc.; when-
ever practicable teach new songs in advance to a
small selected group.

Make a minimum of motions with your hands
and arms. A slow, familiar song sometimes needs
no conducting. Keep your legs limber.

The city of Boulder, Colorado, believes that
“music is a recreational outlet and training which
not only occupies the time of the students for the
present but will be a source of pleasure to them
for the rest of their lives, either as players or
listeners.” And so Boulder is con—
ducting a program in which the
schools are cooperating by fur—
nishing rehearsal rooms for all
groups and the use of all the fa-
cilities of the Instrumental Music
Department, such as instruments
and music stands. The music pro—
gram is sponsored and financed
by the city, The only cost to the
individual is the registration fee
' which is charged in the summer
program.

Some of the summer activities
follow:

Civic Band. The season is from
July Ist to September Ist. Re—
hearsals are each Tuesday eve-
ning at the high school band
room; concerts each Thursday
evening during the season.

Summer Music Classes. The
classes which follow offer an op-
portunity for children who play in

AUGUST 1943

MUSIC ON THE PLAYGROUND 265

school groups to continue playing during the sum—
mer. Beginning classes in all band and orchestra
instruments provide an opportunity for all who
wish to learn to play an instrument. The instruct-
ors are competent men who have had wide experi—
ence in advising a student or his parents as to the
proper instrument for the child in terms of his
physical equipment.

Class Fee
Advanced ensembles (string) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$.75

Intermediate orchestra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

Beginning violin (Section 1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .60

Beginning violin (Section 2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .60

Beginning Violas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .60

Beginning cello and bass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .60

Advanced ensembles (brass—wood wind) . . . . .. .75

Intermediate band . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

Beginning clarinet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .60

Beginning flute, oboe, bassoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .60

Beginning sax and percussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60

Beginning cornet and horn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60

Beginning trombone, baritone, bass . . . . . . . . . . . .60

The staff consists of three members—director
of the string and orchestra classes; director of the
band instrument classes and the bands; and di-
rector of recreational music, who is also director
of the Civic Band, and the Civic Symphony which
holds its sessions from October Ist to May Ist.

Playground children of Memphis enjoy

an unusual form of recreational music

 

Providing Recreation Equipment for the Army

0

AR IS NOT all training
Wand fighting; it has

been said to be ten
per cent activity and ninety
per cent monotony. For the
sake of their spirit and tight-
ing. efficiency men in train-
ing camps and battle zones,
uprooted from their normal
family and social life, de—
mand physical or mental ac-
tivity during their leisure
hours.

This need was realized
and met during World War I when men at the
front were well served by seven civilian organiza-
tions which, by the fall of 1918, had over 6,000
persons in France conducting recreation programs
for the American Expeditionary Forces. Today,
however, morale-building is the business of the
Special Service Division of the Army Service
Forces whose mission, as officially stated, is as
follows:

To assist commanders in developing and maintain-
ing the mental and physical stamina of American
soldiers, thus increasing their military effectiveness, by
assuring that adequate and proper activities and fa—
cilities are made available to keep them informed on
causes and current events of the war, to offer op-
portunities for self-education in subjects of value to

them in their military careers, and to provide rec-
reation and entertainment during their off-duty hours.

This mission is important:
in the success of an army,
Napoleon rated
morale over
material three
to one ; General
Marshall be-
lieves the ratio
is now closer
to five to one.

The part of
the mission of
the Special Ser—
vice Division
which concerns
the recreation
of the soldier is

266

By SCHUYLER HOSLETT

Historian
Kansas City Quartermaster Depot
War Department

The entire country is interested in know-
ing about the recreation which our soldiers
are enioying within the training camps in
the United States and in battle zones over
seas. Just what is being done through the
Special Service Division of the Army Ser-
vice Forces to furnish athletic kits and other
supplies is told here by Mr. Hoslett.
Many of our readers will be amazed to learn
of the extent of the service conducted.

Recreation equipment in use-——a familiar
scene duplicated in hundreds of centers

 

also a concern of the Kan-
sas City, Missouri, Quarter-
master Depot which since
February 1942 has been a
central procuring agency for
certain items of recreation
and athletic equipment for
overseas and domestic use.
One of the activities dele-
gated to the Kansas City
depot’s Procurement Divi-
sion directed by Lt. Colonel
B.  Kendall is the pur—
chase of standard items of
athletic and recreation equipment to be packed in
individual wooden boxes or “kits” at Kansas City
for shipment to overseas forces. Colonel 'Kendall’s _
organization also purchases other equipment for
overseas and domestic use upon the direction of
the Special Service Division acting through the
Office of the Quartermaster General in Washing-
ton. A partial list of the items procured includes
discuses, javelins, shot, clay pigeons, skis, badmin—
ton sets, fly rods, striking bags, medicine balls,
stop watches, fencing equipment, diving boards,
wood carving sets, leather working sets, relay
batons, darts, hockey skates and boxing rings.
Purchasing athletic and recreation equipment is
a big business, and over $13,000,000 worth of
merchandise has been bought at Kansas City since
July 1942. The largest procurements are for the
r self—contained assortments or
kits developed by the Special
Service Divi-
sion which con-
tain equipment
appealing to the
largest number
of men overseas
and requiring
the least amount
0 f s h i p p i n g
s p a c e. T h e
original “A” or
athletic kit is
composed of
baseball and
softball bats and

RECREATION

PROVIDING RECREATION EQUIPMENT FOR THE ARMY 267

balls, table tennis sets, volleyballs, footballs, soc—
cer balls; and fielder’s, baseman’s, catcher’s, and
boxer’s gloves, with such things as a dart-bowl
game or a set of horseshoes included when avail-
able. Over seventy individual pieces of equipment

are included in each kit, of enough variety to

satisfy nearly every athletic taste.

Also included as a part of the “A” kit is a small
games kit containing a collection of eighty—seven
sets of cards and games; thirty—six of these are
decks of playing cards. A lesser number of sets
of Chinese checkers, checkerboard, bingo, back-
gammon and other less‘ familiar games such as
“Chuck—a—Luck” and “Over—and-Under” are also
-included. Thousands of the complete “A” kits
have been shipped to our men overseas, each kit
containing enough equipment for 12 5 men.

A similar kit of games, called the “F” kit, is
distributed primarily for use on transports and at
overseas rest camps and hospitals. A number of
other recreational kits are packed at Kansas City
including a fishing equipment kit which contains
a six foot bamboo surf rod, reel, leaders, raw
hides, sinkers, artificial bait, hooks and hand line
for trolling. The appearance of all equipment
changes from time to time as substitute materials
are developed to conserve critical materials such
as aluminum, silk, rubber and steel. Plastics now
replace most small metal parts. "i

The value of athletic training to the Army is no
longer underestimated by anyone. Colonel Bank
of the Special Service Division has written in
H ygeia that in addition to providing pleasure to
the participants, sports involving bodily contact
develop in the individual man “the sense of con—
fidence, aggressiveness and fearlessness that is
always desirable in a trained soldier.” Sports like
football, basketball and other team play sports also
develop the principles of coordination between
groups of men that are invaluable to a soldier in
bayoneting and in hand-to—hand fighting when
weapons are lost or not usable. “The ‘long point’
in bayonet work corresponds to the ‘left lead’ in
boxing, while a blow with the butt of a gun is
similar to a ‘right hand coun-
ter.’ The position of the legs in
executing a ‘chop’ with a bayo-
net is similar to the leg work in

Books, Too, Are Important

As for books, men in this
country and overseas depend

AUGUST 1943

"It must not be forgotten that all this
is a part of military trainingI and that
the pleasure derived is something
the ‘Fitzsimmons Shift) ” more than incidental. Muscle counts
for little unless there is behind it driv—
ing force and control; apathy in an

army is fatal. But the fighters who

play and laugh are irresistible.”
—Raymond B. Fosdick

for part of their supply of reading matter upon the
traveling libraries of complete sets of new books
chosen to meet varying tastes by the Special Ser-
vice Division and purchased by the Kansas City
depot. These books are packed in wooden boxes
which serve as bookcases upon arrival in camp.
Titles in the traveling libraries are changed fre-
quently to furnish a wide variety of reading ma-
terial. There is everything from feet/es to The
Story of Mankind, from H ow the lap Army Fights
to The Boy Scout Handbook, from The Case of
the Caretaker’s Cat to General Zoology. Emphasis
seems to be placed upon informative books on the
war and other current events and upon the charac-
ter of the enemy, with liberal selections of mystery,
adventure and humor predominating in quantity.
The books selected for the Army today are for a
much better educated group than that of the last
war, as these comparisons made by Special Service
show:

I'Vorld I-Vorld

LVar I War I I
Attended high school . . . . . . . . . .12% 28%
Graduated from high school... . 4% 30%
“College men” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5% 11%

Little need be said of the value of books. Rupert
Hughes, Captain of Infantry in the first World
War, said that a soldier without books was like a
man in a railroad station waiting for a train that is

'late. He would read anything—advertisements,

time—tables or anything else at hand. It had been
said that one public—spirited private passed a letter
from his wife around until it became illegible.
Special Service traveling libraries now make such
gestures unnecessary.

And There’s Music!

As for music to be listened to, never before in
the history of an army has there been the request
for good music as in the United States Army to—
day, but the Special Service Division attempts to
please both the men overseas who yearn for the
rhythm of lower Basin Street as well as those who
miss the concerts in Carnegie Hall. The Kansas
City depot packs a “B” kit of forty—eight records
(classical, popular and dance,
and old favorites), twenty-five
one—half hour transcribed radio
programs, a portable phono-
graph, and a portable seven—
tube radio receiver, which plays
on battery, alternating or direct
current, with an extra set of

(Continued on page 299)

Developing a Municipal Boating Program

By JOSEPH LEE

MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT or civic agency in
A a city may own under its own title a fleet of
small sailboats and hold them available every
hour of the day for continuous use, without an idle
moment, for passing and participating citizens of
all ages who do not own them—as the essence of
this water playground program. This can be done
without any cost to the municipality or the civic
agencies. Revenues easily derived from adult pay-
ing members will more than pay the cost of an
equally extensive program for children when such
a program is conducted under competent manage-
ment. The children themselves
would not be asked to pay.

The use of a boat by ten peo-
ple a day in the course of twelve
hours — sometimes fewer and
sometimes more—can be antici-
pated. In other words, a fleet of
fifty sailboats will mean 500 par-
ticipants a day, and approxi-
mately 2,000 in the course of a

summer. (Twenty new participants may be taken-

in per day.)

Why Sailing?

Sailing is the sport of kings. It is hunting for
wind. It has all the maneuverability, tactical ad”
dress and clash of a battle against the enemy, the
wind—nature’s wildest boar. It has also the quiet—
ness and reverie of church. Sails are white steeples.
They are silent at their work bench, they draw
and pull.

It presents as happy a spectacle to the watchers
from shore in a city as to the participants.

It has been tried and successfully operated on
the Charles River Basin in Boston,

Important Considerations

With these points in mind as to feasibility and
enjoyment, the way should be clear for any active
community to go ahead and develop a sailing pro-
gram. It is, however, implied that there shall be
an adequate body of water. A body of water less
than a half a mile square is too confining to at-
tract paying adults, although suitable for children,
and it may be even a little smaller, if an annual

268

Joseph Leel one of whose hobbies
is sailing' and who is author of the
bookI IIHow to Sail a Boat," gives
us in this article some of the defi-
nite points which. in his opinion.
can be laid down in the matter of
the development of public sailing
programs in cities of the country.

financial deficit can be made up. The used part of
our Charles River Basin in Boston is approxi-
mately a mile long and half a mile wide.

Too big a body of water also has drawbacks.
An unprotected coastal shore obviously is subject,
on the one hand, to huge ocean storms coming in,
and on the other, to dangerous off-shore winds
that might sweep a boat out to sea. A small bay
on the shore enclosing an area not greater than a
mile square is possible, if the added cost can be
met of three motor boats to patrol the entrance,
and if it affords some minor inlet or naturally-
bounded basin within itself to
which the beginners can be con-
lined. Such a basin within a
basin for beginners is almost
essential even on the smaller
bodies of water.

In coastal waters, too, care
must be exercised in regard to
the rise and fall of the tides so
that the area selected will be one
where low tide does not too radically change the
nature of the area by presenting extensive shoals or
ledges which were adequately submerged at high
tide. An area with steamship traffic is, of course,
out of the question, as is an area with currents
greater than one-half a mile an hour.

It should be remembered, too, that cold water,
such as is found along the Northern Atlantic sea-
board, is an extreme hazard, as capsizings and
plunges in the water present a problem of resist-
ing cold which few people can endure for more
than fifteen minutes, thirty minutes, or an hour,
depending on their age, strength, and constitution.

It is important to bear in mind that when a
bigger area than that noted is contemplated, par-
ticipants have graduated into the class of thoroughly
trained boatmen who must be equal to that inde-
pendence, reliability, and experience in handling
their boat which goes rather with the private own-
ership of a boat than with a supervised program
of government-owned boats available to the pass-
ing public.

I Inland small lakes, of dimensions not less than
the minimum described, are feasible if the pro-
jectors of the program have first carefully consid-

RECREATION

DEVELOPING A MUNICIPAL BOATING PROGRAM 269

ered whether the bottom
has sufficient regular
depth not to strand the
keel of the boat on shoals,
nor to involve intricate
local knowledge of chan-
nels ; whether the lake is
sufficiently free of islands
and outjutting promon-
tories to admit of a clear
supervisional view by the
directors; and whether
the land is low and un-
mountainous enough to
admit of a reasonably
clear flow of wind with—
.out a too vexatious mix-
ture of calms and sudden
squalls from steep abut-
ting shores.

With these various con-
siderations in mind, the
municipality or civic
agency can determine the feasibility of their pro-
gram and accordingly proceed. It should, in fair-
ness, still be added that the enterprise remains
basically—"from the management’s point of view—
a school, teaching many new people a day a dif-
ficult and dangerous art, Accordingly, in the light
of What was learned in Boston from years of trial
and error and constant application, it is possible to
say that a new program should be launched only
if there is a trained worker, preferably one of
those trained in the Boston program who will
doubtless be available after the war.-

At the risk of saying too much, I should also
add that a float, or wharf, as the focal point of
operations is essential, and that this float, or wharf,
. should have six feet of frontage for every boat in
the fleet. Slips and indentations in the layout of
the wharf make it possible to get this without too
extensive construction. A large boathouse is not
needed, but a- shop for housing tools and big
enough to repair two or three boats at a time in
the winter is most desirable.

A Few Major Principles

In outlining the considera-
tions which a community
should take under advise-
ment in promoting of such a
venture, and getting its feet
wet in it, it would be travel-

AUGUST 1943

Mr. Lee calls attention to his article.
"Boating." published in the August I940
issue of Recreation, and to his hand-
book' "How to Sail a Boat." which sup-
plement the suggestions given here. This
materialI with facts available from gen-
eral sourcesI Mr. Lee believes turnishes
sufficient information to enable a local
group to launch a public program.

 

Photo by Ralph Vaster at Put in Bay, Lake Erie

Nothing's more fun than sailing in a home-
made boatI when it can be done in safety!

ing far afield to go into too great technical detail
as to the actual steps of operation and day-by-day

instructional procedures. A few major principles
here, nevertheless, still remain to be taken into ac—
count before a community can confidently go for-
ward with a sound project, These considerations
involve the differences of attitude that occur when
one starts to deal with water.

The ancients were not far amiss in regarding
water as one of the three elements of nature, along
with air and fire. There is much about water that
even the very good recreation leader should not
step into without a realization of its utterly dif-
ferent character from shore activities.

The very language is stepped up to a new tempo
and slightly out of kilter from on-shore standards.
“Stand,” which ashore means to assume a fixed
upright position, means, afloat, to move about upon
the surface of the water.
“Lay,” which ashore means
to put an object or oneself in
a stationary, restful place,
means,- afloat, to move about
on the boat. Thus, a ship
“stands” on shore or off
shore, to the east or to the
west, while her men “layi’

270 DEVELOPING A MUNICIPAL BOATING PROGRAM

for'ard or aft, alow or aloft, upon her decks and
rigging. Even “sheet” which ashore means an ex—
panse of fabric, afloat means the rope that holds
or adjusts such a spread of canvas.

More particularly, the director of a sailing proj-
ect—unlike a project ashore—is not trying to
secure discipline under him, but is attempting to
promote discipline in his pupils over and above
him. The pupil will be out of earshot of the super-
visor’s voice and doubtless out of notice of his eye
when trouble will befall him. The director has the
novel task of bequeathing to the pupil superior
wisdom which must be exercised by him with an
independence disconcerting to the' standards of
direct obedience and personal control which are
possible to confined jurisdictions on shore.

Beyond this, the boat’s engine, unlike mechan-
isms ashore, is outside of it and is as unmanage-
able as the stars. For the wind is the sailor’s
engine, and he tinkers with it by reading the
weather forecasts at night, watching the clouds,
consulting the oldest inhabitant, and detecting its
immediate approach by the different ways it ripples
the water in arriving.

I have almost come to the conclusion that the
sailing director should be a man to whom the par—
ticipants are a secondary problem and whose first
infatuation is the wind and nature. Only by this
surrender and dedication to the wind will he im-
part to his charges the same love of it, and the
same necessity to heed it which have made of him
an adequate sailor.

I have no trouble in detecting the capabilities of
supervisors by hearing them talk. If their conver-
sation consists entirely of “griping,” complaining,
worrying, and occasionally exulting in the wind

and weather, then I am sure they may know their
business.

A final consideration is the general approach for
presenting the science of sailing to the beginners.
Everything should be presented in terms of plan-
ning: “What will you do if 3‘” A counter-
move to meet every change of the wind, in all the
different quarters or intensities to which it may
shift, is the inevitable art to which seafaring men
are compelled. If a boy does not know how to sail
his boat with the techniques of a general conduct-
ing a battle, he hasn’t learned anything. Each
manoeuver of the wind has a counter-manceuver on
the part of the navigator designed to meet the
various objectives of the navigator. And these
tactics have to be realized and studied as one plans

 

either a formal or an Indian war against a some-
times detectable and other times not too visible
opponent.

The few simple rules— “Hang onto your boat
if it upsets”; “Let go of the rope in your hand
that holds the sail if you do not know what to do
or if the boat tips too much"; and “Turn safely to
catch the wind on the other side Only by moving
the steering bar in your hand toward the side
which the sail is on,” give basic safety from which
the pilot may proceed to work out his other strate-
gies and tactics, with only the admonition never to
pull a sail in more than enough to stop its flutter-
ing or flapping near the mast, and not to turn the
back of his boat too directly toward the wind. His
other strategies may be built up from this point, if
he is trained to regard the wind as a foeman
worthy of his steel. Sailing is jiu—jitsu against a
larger adversary, the wind.

Nothing in these remarks about the pupil re-
lieve the instructor from being equally bound by
the same considerations. .The staff members
should have a complete diagram in their minds of
what they would do and how they would handle
their program for each change of wind and type of
weather and emergency which their locality is heir
to. Like a battle, every contingency, and the
manoeuver to meet it, must be planned out and
practiced in advance by the supervising staff.

I am sorry that I cannot be more specific about
the type of boat to use. This was touched on
briefly in the boating article in RECREATION,
August 1940. The general considerations of cheap-
ness, extreme ruggedness in meeting abuses and
punishment, manageability, liveliness to sail, and
safety still find themselves pinned between the two
sides of a paradox by the time actual construction
begins.

If the boat is wide and sturdy-looking, she will
require a sail too big for a small boy to comfort—
ably be master of, and when she does upset, too
much boat is toppling over on top of the boy’s
head. If she has outside ballast on her keel to
render her non-capsizable, she will sink if she has
a hole knocked in her or gets filled with water, and
is hard to lift out and handle on the landing. If
the boat is too light and narrow with a small sail
the objections of tenderness immediately appear.

The boats which I designed for the Charles
River, Boston, without out-rigger pontoons well
out of water, except when the boat heels down,

(Continued on page 302)
RECREATION

' Philadelphia Breaks Records!

-‘

N JULY 5TH, exactly
0 twelve days after a

silver—plated spade,
wielded by Acting Mayor
Bernard Samuel, bit into
the hard gravel of Reyburn
Plaza in a brief ground-break-
ing ceremony, the city of Phila-
delphia proudly‘opened to ser-
vicemen and—women the larg- of
est outdoor recreation center Recreation
and canteen in the East.

The completed structure, to
be known for the duration as USO-Labor Plaza,
stands as a shining example of what can be ac-
complished through the enthusiastic cooperation of
civic authorities, organized labor, and community
leadership. The story of USO-Labor Plaza has
few, if any, wartime parallels.

One of the major jobs of the Recreation Com-
mittee of the Philadelphia Council of Defense is
to make a continuous study of the recreational
needs of the armed forces while on leave in the
city. Servicemen and—women find hospitality and
recreation in sixteen central city agencies coor-
dinated under the banner of the USO Council and
Associated Wartime Agencies which receive their
funds from the United War Chest. During the
indoor season these centers have been found ade-
quate in entertaining the members of the armed
forces.

 “$5.051? :m “A... L i
31”” n I Immmmmn" ‘

‘u
l“ h u u I

o

H! Hit!

9
‘91

.,

is

v ‘1'“

I»
§

I
‘1

AUGUST 1943

There were skeptics who said that
it couldn't be done—but the USO-
Labor Plaza was built in l2 days!

By CHARLES H. ENGLISH

Mr. English. Executive Secretary. Play-
ground and Recreation Association
Philadelphia.
Coordinator for the
Philadelphia Council

 

Last spring, however, the
need for an adequate out-
door center during the
summer months was recog-
nized, and plans for such a

project were developed by the
Recreation Coordinator of the
Defense Council for presenta-
tion to the Mayor of Philadel—
phia as the first step toward its
attainment. A request was
made that Reyburn Plaza, idle
city property a stone’s throw
north of Philadelphia’s City Hall, be utilized for
this purpose. The location was ideal for the pro-
posed center. N ear by were the Pennsylvania Rail-
road’s Broad Street Station and important bus
terminals. .

The Mayor and City Council gave immediate
approval to the project, and the sum of $10,000
was granted from the Mayor’s fund to purchase
materials. The Building Trades Council of the
American Federation of Labor agreed to provide,
without cost, the skilled labor to construct the
center, The membership of the CIO unions agreed
to supply necessary equipment and furnishings.
Administration and maintenance expenses were
underwritten by the United \Var Chest, which al—
located $16,000 for operation. The USO under-
took the responsibility of organization and admin-
istration, and in May began to set up the advisory

is serving as

of Defense.

x .x~ 4 w"-
- a . a H t ’
‘ P.

J-

-:

272 PHILADELPHIA BREAKS RECORDS!

committees. Representatives of organized labor,
the United War Chest, the city government, USO,
the Defense Council and civic groups composed
the membership of the General Committee. It was
truly a community enterprise.

The General Committee went to work with a
will. Meeting the problems of priorities, and even
finding all of the materials needed for such an am—
bitious project taxed the ingenuity of the commit-
tee. One by one, apparently insurmountable ob-
stacles were overcome. Ground-breaking took
place on June 24th, and a major face—lifting opera—
tion on Reyburn Plaza began auspiciously.

From the start of construction, the pace was
breath taking. True to its promise, the A.F. of L.
poured skilled workmen into the job. Carpenters,
concrete workers, painters, steel workers and others
gave thousands of hours of labor. Many reported
to the Plaza at the end of
their regular wartime jobs
and worked far into the
night. Week-end holidays - Pnal;
were waived to rush the
project to completion by the
deadline. Jurisdictional bars
were down: carpenters
painted, plasterers drove
nails, painters carried lum—
ber, and top officials of or-
ganized labor got into over-
alls and turned to their old
trades.

While construction continued at a dizzy speed,
CIO union members readied furnishings. Tables
were built and painted, canteen equipment—ice
boxes, beverage coolers, meat slicers, flags and
banners, amplifying units—were assembled for the
gala opening.

When opening night arrived Philadelphia caught
its breath and rubbed its eyes! There were skeptics
who didn’t believe it could be done. But 4,000 first
night guests gazed in awe at one of the finest rec-
reation centers in the United States. -7

Festooned with flags of the United Nations, the
USO-Labor Plaza contains 32,000 square feet of
Space in an enclosure 200 by 160 feet. A blue and
white picket fence surrounds the Plaza. At the
north end stands a band shell, the only structure
on the Plaza when work began. An extension of
the stage provides ample Space for all types of en-
tertainment and is normally used by the fourteen
piece orchestra that supplies dance music every
evening from Monday through Saturday.

The Recreation Committee has issued an
attractive little publication, "Handy Hos-
ty Hints.II as an aid to hostesses at
the USO-Labor Plaza. It contains a number
of "00's and Don't'sll on conversation. and
some suggestions entitled "Your Leading
Part in the Show,II which offer hints for

the behavior of the hostesses.

"It's not a rule book." the Committee
explains. "It's just a few of the pointers
that girls themselves have picked up by

experience as hostesses in recreation
centers since the days of Pearl Harbor."

One of the largest dance floors in the country,
containing 8,000 square feet, can accommodate 300_
couples at one time. Tables and chairs placed
around three sides of the dance floor will seat
1,000, and a canopy covering extending twenty
feet inward from the fence on three sides affords
protection in case of rain.

Two large canteens, one on each side of the
Plaza, supply servicemen and women with food
and soft drinks. Nothing costs more than a nickel.
In addition, four small buildings were constructed
wan administration building with an office and an
emergency room, two comfort stations, and a head-
quarters for hostesses. Boxed shrubbery flanks the
dance floor, and generous use of color and colored
lights gives the effect of a continental cafe.

Average attendance since the opening night (the
Plaza is open from 6 RM. to 12 :30 A. M.) has been
4,000. The peak thus far, on
July 10th, was 7,000. The
present staff of 1,000 junior
hostesses is being increased
to 3,000. Junior hostesses,
drawn from labor union
membership, are required
to undergo a course of
training before being certi—
fled for their assignments at
the USO-Labor Plaza.

The Plaza will be open
through September, but
plans are now being con-
sidered to utilize the dance floor in the fall to pro-
vide roller skating and even ice skating, if the
necessary equipment can be found. If servicemen
indicate a desire for it, the General Committee
will provide equipment for such games as deck
shuffleboard, table tennis, badminton and quoits
for use 'during the afternoons.

Philadelphia is proud of its new recreation cen-
ter. Its guests are saying “It’s a swell town to a
guy away from home.”

Another record-breaking and highly successful
civic accomplishment—this time the conversion of
an enormous auditorium in a southern city into a
recreation center used by servicemen, the young
people of the city, and the community as a whole——
will be reported in the September issue of RECRE—
ATION. It is the story of a “white elephant” which
became a genuinely useful and popular commu-
nity project. Look for it under the title, “Char-
lotte’s Ninety Day \Vonder.”

RECREATION

War Recreation in the Nation's Capital

tion have been con—
fronted with a greater
challenge in the necessary
expansion of every facility
to meet wartime conditions
than has the nation’s cap-
ital. Nor has any depart-
ment in the country girded
itself more energetically to make the maximum
contribution to the war effort than has the Recre-
ation Department, organized in June of last year
in accordance with Public Law 534, 77th Congress.
Since 1940 the population of the District of
Columbia has increased from 600,000 to better
than 900,000. The metropolitan area, which sends
thousands of workers from adjacent Maryland and
\Virginia into the nation’s capital for work and
relaxation, comprises a total of approximately
1,500,000 This great aggregation of men and
women falls into such classifications as service-
men, war workers, industrial employees, and local
residents, all of whom not only require recreation
as an antidote, to long hours and war nerves, but
request a large variety of congenial forms of re-
laxation and the adjustment of such recreation

FEW CITIES in the na-

 

AUGUST 1943

By CORA WELLS T HORPE
Staff Member

District of Columbia Recreation Department

Some of the greatly expanded recreational fa-
cilities and opportunities offered by the Rec-
reation Department of Washingtonl D. C.. to
the nation's workers and to all within its gates.

programs into a “round-
the-clock” schedule. Added
to these adult classifica-
tions is the proportionate
number of children, rang—
ing from preschool age
through adolescence.

In recognition of this
imperative, unequalled, and
humanly—compelling call to service, the District of
Columbia Recreation Department is directing its
efforts to the attainment of three comprehensive
objectives—the expansion of its existing facilities,
the development of new fields of opportunity, and
a rescheduling of its activities to meet the needs of
the community.

For the new family moving into the District
whose primary interest is the neighborhood schools
and playgrounds, the Department provides leader—
ship on I 12 playgrounds during the summer season
and sixty—live during the winter, fall, and Spring
seasons. The hours have taken on unwanted elas-
ticity ; many grounds formerly open from 9 A. M.
to 5 P. M. daily and Saturday 9 A. M. to I P. M.
are now in use from 9 A. M. to dusk six days in
the week, as well as Sunday afternoons. This latter

extension of
hours is being
arranged for the
many who spend
week ends at
home, as a sub-
stitute for previ-
o u s t r i p s t o
‘ beaches and va-
cation spots.

In addition to
such established
types of play-
ground recrea-

Waiting for the
Women's Battal-
ion at a Fort
Belvoir dance

273

274 WAR RECREATION IN THE NATION’S CAPITAL

tion as tennis, softball, touch football, archery,
handball, clock golf, music, dramatics, and hand-
crafts—most of these from salvaged materials—
plans are being rapidly matured for a Victory
Builders Program. Within the scope of the latter
program, which has been worked out in coopera-
tion with national and local school officials, will
be included a series of achievement tests in the
field of physical fitness, swimming, citizenship,
volunteer and service activities and usable crafts,
the over—all goal being the development of youth
to its maximum potentiality of civic and national
service.

At the Community Centers

Undoubtedly at no time since the first World
War have the community centers in school build-
ings, field houses, housing project community
buildings of the Department faced as stimulating
a challenge as today. The community centers,
which bear the relation of neighborhood club
houses to their surrounding “
areas, present an increasingly
rich field of choice in evening
relaxation and entertainment.

The programs run the gamut
of recreation in the field of
dancing, orchestration, choral
music, drama, crafts, physical
conditioning and games, as the
participants represent all ages through adolescence
and maturity with varied predilection as to the
type of amusements desired. In some of the thirty-
two community centers one may find popular
courses in French, Spanish and Polish. Here, too,
is common meeting ground for stamp collectors
and bridge enthusiasts. Another center produces
an average of two operas a season with seventy-
five members in the cast. Applications for mem-
bership in the dramatic clubs receive sympathetic
consideration, and young people are finding in
them a wide field for dramatic and musical self—
expression. .

A popular feature, unique among such standard
amusements as basketball, ballroom and square
dancing, and rhythmic exercise, is a rifle range
operated by a squad of U. S. Marines. An inter-
national touch is given by British Admiralty Dele-
gation which takes over the badminton courts at
one of the centers.

Some Special Groups

Special activities, which may be described as

constituting an integral part of the Department’s

Milo F. Christiansen. Superintendent
of Recreation, reports that the bud-
get for the Recreation Department of
the District of Columbia has been in—
creased by the United States Congress

from $364,000 to $496,000. This in-
crease was effective on July II I943.

“war front,” include such Community War Fund
subsidized projects as the \Nomen’s Battalions
operated by the Department with the joint spon—
sorship of “Recreation Services, Inc.”; “Enter—
tainments and Volunteer Camp Shows for Wash-
ington”; and the Banneker Service Center for
members of colored U. S. troOps. A departure into
the field of recreation for the civilian war worker,
is the recently organized “Walsh Club for War
Workers” financed through funds provided by the
Lanham Act.

The seven thousand girls enrolled as members
of the Women’s Battalions, whose contribution to
the war effort is the pleasant one of dancing two
or three times in the week with soldiers, sailors
and United States Marines at near by military
camps and government building auditoriums and
cafeterias, make an appreciable impact on the war
front, as do the energetic entertainment schedules
which, in the first three weeks following the De-
partment’s assumption of responsibility, presented
' fourteen camp shows with a
hundred volunteer participants
to an estimated audience of
3,461 servicemen and 1,165
civilians. The response of Camp
Meade, Fort Myer, the Signal
Corps Institute, Service Club
NO. I, the Salvation Army,
U.S.O. Club, the Stage Door
Canteen, Gallinger and Walter Reed Hospitals
was gratifying.

In the next four weeks thirty-two dates were
booked for the variety shows, revues, concerts,
community sings and other entertainments offered.
An unusual adjunct to the camp programs is the
older group of volunteer hostesses who accompany
the casts of young people on their engagements
both in and out of town.

The Banneker Men’s Service Club for colored
soldiers has the distinction of being the only pro-
ject under the Department’s supervision which
offers lodging facilities to visiting soldiers. Pro-
vided with sleeping quarters with double-decker
beds, it offers a welcome haven to the soldier week-
ending in Washington. The role of the good Sa-
maritan is not an uncommon one to Banneker.
Recently alsoldier, who found himself out of funds
on the fifth day of a fourteen day leave, was pro-
vided with meals, lodging, recreation, and was
sent safely back to camp on time. -

Midsummer will add the appeal of the Sylvan

(Continued on page 300)
RECREATION

Centers All Their Own!

 

The "Keen Teens" of Raleigh

Courtesy Recreation Commission, Raleigh, North Carolina

esting listening. One of the repeated requests of
these young people was for “a place of our own.”

A meeting of the young people was literally

HILE THEIR ELDERS were writing editorials
W entitled “The Terrible Teens,” and holding

mass meetings and forums on “juvenile de-
linquency,” and in the midst of a great deal of talk
about a “survey,” the flaming youth of Raleigh,
North Carolina, tackled their own problems. The
mouths of their elders are still slightly, if admir-
ingly, agape over their success!

It all started through a slightly “wacky” radio
program originated by Mr. Fred Fletcher, owner

“pulled out of the air,” and before you could say
“Buy More War Bonds,” a request was placed
before the Raleigh Recreation Commission to act
as the sponsor for a teen age organization. The
Commission readily agreed, and Chairman J. J.
Fallon appointed a senior board of governors in
accordance with the constitution which the young
pe0ple themselves adopted. Following a _mass
meeting of the teen agers a junior board of gov-
ernors was elected with ‘Mr. Eddie Waddell, presi—

' of radio station W'RAL and
a go-getting member of the
Raleigh Recreation Com-
mission, a body that has no
use for mere tradition. In
Fletcher’s early morning
radio program called “The
Swinging Doors,” he en-
courages young people to
call the station and indicate
their favorite selection.
These conversations between
the broadcaster and the radio
fan are themselves broadcast
and they make most inter-

AUGUST 1943

"It has always been a mystery to us." says
an editorial in a Des Moines. Iowa. paper.
"why the same carefree. tun-loving environ-
ment could not be created in places other
than those operated on a wholly commer-
cial basis. with all the unhappier aspects
which so often go with commercialism."

And now youth themselves. with the aid
of older friends. are creating just such cen-
ters in cities all over the country. Call them
"Night Clubs." "Campus Canteens." "Spi-
der Webs." "Ranch Houses." or just plain
"Youth Centers." they're helping mightily.
under wise leadership. to provide the solu-
tion of many of youth's troublesome war-
time difficulties.

dent, and Miss Lois Rowe
serving as secretary and
treasurer. Members of the
junior board are elected
from each high school in
Raleigh and the organiza-
tion is known as the “Teen

Age Club.”

These young people first
tackled the problem of get-
ting a place to meet, and in
this problem they had the
help of Recreation Superin-
tendent Oka Hester and
Miss Helen Cutting, As-

275

276 CENTERS ALL THEIR OWN!

sistant Director. A committee
of young people canvassed the
town. The best located facility
they found was an old garage
building in the center of town
immediately in back of the Sir
Walter Hotel. It had been
vacant for a number of months
and the floor was coated with an inch of accumu—
lated oil and grease. It was simply a barn of a
place with poor lighting and with a basement full
ofjunk.

The owner, Mr. “Buck” Dunn, the civic-minded
owner of a laundry located next to the garage,
readily agreed to lease them the entire building,
both floors and basement, for a figure they felt
they could afford to pay—approximately $125 per
month. It was then that they really went to work.
They approached Mayor Graham Andrews and
City Commissioner Roy Williamson, who is also
a member of the Recreation Commission, and_the
city officials gave the idea and the youngsters their
enthusiastic approval, endorsement and support.
Thus officially backed, members of the junior board
of governors of the Teen Age Club visited the

ofhcials of the civic organizations in Raleigh. They
explained their

organization and
its purpose and
asked each club
for a small finan-
cial donation to
provide the ini—
tial working cap-
ital. That week
the secretary-
treasurer of the
Teen Age Club
paid four months’
rent of their
quarters in ad-
vance, and sub-
committees be—
gan purchasing
basic supplies
such as paint,
nails, curtain ma-
terials, glue, and
colored lights.
The first job
was to get the
place clean and
equipped with

Teen Age clubs in other cities who
wish further information regarding
the activities of the Raleigh Club
may write Miss Lois Rowe. Secretary.
Teen Age Club. Salisbury StreetI
RaleighI North Carolina. Miss Rowe
and Miss Helen Cutting, Club DirectorI

will welcome such correspondence.

scrapers, brooms, stiff street
sweeping brooms, mops, buck-
ets of hot water, soap and chem-
icals, the Teeners swarmed
over the building. After several
days of hard labor every bit of
oil and grease had been re—
, moved from floors and walls
and crevices. With a rented sanding machine they
sanded the floors, and youthful carpenters among
the members replaced a board or two where
needed. They built a brand new stairway to the
second floor, and a commercial sign painter was
inveigled into painting a sign on the side of the
building in large black letters, “The Teen Age
Club.” A11 illuminated club sign was hung in the
front of the building in the best glamorous night
club tradition.

Then came the paint squad! The first of these
paint “commandos” used Spraying machines, and
the walls, rafters and ceilings of basement, first
floor and second fioor were done thoroughly. Next
came the touchup squad armed with buckets of

paint, many-hued and plenty of it! The support-
ing colors emerged like peppermint candy stripes

 

,:- -_. 

Courtesy Recreation Commission, Raleigh, North Carolina

RECREATION

CENTERS ALL THEIR OWN! 277

of red, white and blue. The place gleamed like a
linoleum ad in a magazine.

While the committee engaged some help to put
in the plumbing the boys—and girls, too—sawed
and hammered and fitted, and lo and behold there
came into being a library and office, a work room,
a craft.shop, a young men’s lounge and a girl’s
powder room, and a swank streamlined soft drink
bar.

More lumber, more nails, more tools, and more
young peOple were thrown together, and from the
combination came chairs, tables, ping—pong tables,
and a six-foot section which, when placed together,
formed a portable platform for the orchestra. One
of the members of the Teen Age Club, a future
Kay Kyser by name of Herb Gupton, formed the
orchestra for the club, which includes everything
the big name bands have including a night club
singer. Its premiere was given on Friday, June
4th, on a national hook—up of the Mutual Broad—
casting Company. This was the occasion of the
Club’s dedication. The speakers including North
Carolina Governor Melville Broughton; Raleigh
Mayor Graham Andrews; Chairman   Fallon
of the Recreation Commission; Eddie Waddell,
President of the Club ; Miss Lois Rowe, Secretary—
Treasurer; Mr. Fred Fletcher; and Miss Helen
Cutting, Club Director; Mr. Frank Daniels, Busi—
ness Manager of the Raleigh News and Observer,
whose brother, writer of “A Southerner Discovers

the South,” said in connection with the activities, '

“We southerners are discovering a bunch of live-
wire tar heels.”

The Club is open from 9 o’clock in the morning
until II o’clock at night. A Parents’ Club, affili—
ated with the Teen Age Club for chaperone pur—
poses, was organized at the request of the young
people themselves.

Membership in the club numbers approximately
500 at the time this article is written. The total
number of young people in Raleigh in this age
group is approximately 1,300. By a ruling of the
club, dues were established at fifty cents a month.
One of the activities of the Club is an Employ-
ment Bureau, and if any young person is unable to
provide his money for dues, opportunity is given
him through the Employment ’ Bureau to earn
whatever he wishes. Work opportunities are plen-
tiful—washing windows, cutting grass, trimming
shrubbery, minding children and cultivating vic—
tory gardens are only a few of the hundreds of op—
portunities. The Employment Bureau is doing a
land office business. At any time of day or night,

AUGUST 1943

now that school is out, the Club swarms with ac—
tivity around the bar, at tables, cutting rugs with
the juke box, reading in the library room, which
the Raleigh Public Library helped the boys and
girls to {it up with books—they built their own
bookcases—working in the craft room, or engaged
in the numerous activities of upkeep of the building.

The office contains a large city map dotted with
nearly 500 colored pins showing the residence lo-
cation of each member boy and girl. It is interest-
ing that there are more boys than girls in the Club,
although this majority is not large.

A very interesting development was the discov—
ery by the members of the Teen Age Club that the
next older age group in the city, mainly the work—
ing girls in the downtown department stores and
live—and-tens, had no place to go in their leisure
hours. The junior board of governors took up the
matter and agreed to offer the older working girls
of Raleigh the use of the Teen Age Club every
Thursday night. This offer was accepted and now
once a week the working girls of Raleigh fill the
dance fioor to capacity. The Teen Age Orchestra
plays, and the young people themselves put on a
floor show for their older brothers and sisters and
neighbors. The older girls are permitted to bring
their “dates,” and the Parents Club continues to
offer their services as chaperones for the Thurs—
day night parties. The unior board of governors,
which handles all matters of policy, are against the
drinking of liquor, Violations of this rule are
handled by the unior board either through suspen-
sion or dropping of membership, depending upon
the seriousness of the offense.

The enormous success from the very outset of
the Teen Age Club is proof that the young people
of our country are not anxious that things be done
for them, but that given an opportunity they can
and will do things for themselves.

The Cook’n Eat Club

COOKING’S FUN. Eating’s best of all! That is
the rather universal human frailty that the
Cook ’n Eat Club of Memphis works on. It isn’t
necessary to thumb through famous proverbs to
know that it’s probably the. eating side of the club
that explains the large male membership! Besides
the fun for girls in having boys around the range,
there’s the fact that members have their own pin

a wooden bowl complete with a spoon, with the
words “Cook ’n Eat” burned in.

 

278 CENTERS ALL THEIR OFVN!

The menu is planned by the Cook ’n Eaters
themselves to include not only teen agers but
younger children, too. Last Spring members got
to know ration point values so well they learned to
keep their knowledge to themselves— too many
mothers made them official marketers for the
family!

Cook ’n Eaters planned a very successful lunch-
eon in May composed entirely of non-rationed
food: a good salad, scrambled eggs, milk, and a

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Memphis Park Commission

pudding. All the work of cooking and marketing
is divided in such a way that there are always a
few members left to do a neat job of table setting.
The meals are always delightful to look at, too.
Budding hostesses have an opportunity to practice
social graces. There is always a guest or two
present. Where does the money to meet the ex-
penses come from? Club
dues—ten cents a Cook ’n
Eat session. “'ith an aver-
age attendance of fifteen or
twenty, that amounts up to
a feast for all even in these

days of rationing.
In the Radio Breakfast

Judge Camille Kelly of the Juvenile Court
of Memphis. in reporting for a national 1ar_
survey a decrease in the city's juvenile
delinquency rate. said: "Moreover there
are fewer serious offences than formerly.
I think much of this has been due to the
cooperation the Juvenile Court has re-
ceived from the Recreation Department."

Club teen agers have another opportunity to enjoy
the delights of cooking and eating. The director
of one of the recreation centers, when she noticed
the steady number of children who came to the cen—
ter Saturday mornings to listen to the playground
radio program, had a bright idea. She found that
many of them had brought their breakfast .along—
usually bread and butter grabbed on the run. So she
arranged for breakfast to be cooked at the center.
The stove which the club uses is an old steel wheel-
barrow, the outside painted
white and the barrow filled
with sand. This furnishes
a container for a charcoal
fire. Bacon is fried on wire
clothes hangers suspended
above the fire.

There are many other
activities for adolescents in
Memphis. For mixed
groups of boys and girls
the Recreation Depart-
ment tries to have a “drop-
in” room at every center.
Each has game tables, com-
fortable chairs, sometimes
a radio with records. The
young crowd can drop in
at any time. The Merry-
Go-Round Club at one of
the centers is the out-
growth of such a drop—in
room. It is made up of a
group of teen agers who
meet in their own room at
the center once a week for
fun, dancing, or just to
talk, The club has officers

who welcome each guest at the door. Lights are
softened. Music is from records played on the
center’s radio-phonograph.

There is dancing at every center and plenty of
opportunity for athletics. Shuffleboard courts are

_ lined up at all the gymnasiums. Basketball teams,

volleyball leagues, and football squads for high
school boys who did not
make the varsity are popu-
Bike and.Hike Clubs
have their fans.

At one center where the
drama group draws an older
crowd there is another big
attraction, The teens and

RECREATION

“between-teens” are permitted to roller skate in
the gymnasium at hours when it is not being used
for athletics. Best of all, the skating is to music!
A public address system is hooked up to the cen—
ter’s radio. Periodically the center’s director calls
the skating figures. Plenty of tricky, fancy skaters
have deve10ped.

Then there’s the playhouse for young pe0ple.
But that’s too long a story to tell here. We’ll give
it to you in a future issue of RECREATION.

A Recreation Room for
Young People

"WE WANT A PLACE where we can eat, dance,

visit, and have good wholesome fun,” said
an editorial in the paper issued by the high school
of Marshalltown, Iowa.

And because some members of the Board of
Directors of the Y.M.C.A. became concerned over
the fact that there was no place for students to go
—no place, at least, free from slot machines and
liquor—there is now a new recreation room for
high school, junior college, and business college
students of Marshalltown.

It was the Boys’ Work Committee of the Y.M.
C.A. which took upon itself the responsibility for

AUGUST 1943

9-“ CENTERS ALL THEIR OWN! 279

 

Photo by Apgar

providing the center. The committee was com-
posed of two school principals, two ministers, a
judge of the juvenile court, a Negro layman, and
the president and general secretary of the Y.M.C.A.

A large room on the first fioor of the “Y”
building, which had formerly been the boys’ lobby
seemed the most logical place to use. It was already
finished in knotty pine wood and had a small log
cabin room in one corner. A new floor was laid,
and oak furniture was purchased for the log cabin
which was turned into a lounge. All this will be
paid .for by the profits on the uke box rented from
a local music store.

In no time at all the room was ready to answer
the call for music and dancing, and on April 2nd it
was opened with the following schedule of hours:
7:00- 9:30, Monday, Tuesday, and \Vednesday
nights; 7:30 to 10:45 on Friday; and 7:30 to
I I :00 on~ Saturday. The plan was to keep the room
open sufiiciently late so that students would be
ready to go home immediately after closing time.
In an adjoining room pop, candy, potato chips,
and similar refreshments were served. This elimi-
nated any need for going outside the room for
something to eat. The Y.M.C.A. provided chap-
erones.

For the first few evenings a student stood at
the door and collected a nickel from each person
who entered, and from his “bank” kept the juke
box filled with nickels, On subsequent evenings

CENTERS ALL THEIR OWN!

students were left to keep the machine going with
their own nickels, making their own selection of
records. The latter arrangement seemed to meet
with the most approval.

It is the plan of the committee to put attend-
ance on a club membership basis, having students
register for cards which can be presented to en-
title them to use the room. This will give control
over out-of—school persons who try to come in. It
will also aid in disciplinary control over those mis—
using their privilege. A student committee of seven
members to act on disciplinary problems is being
organized.

Attendance has averaged between 200 and 275
a night, with some week ends considerably above
this number. Students from the parochial high
a school, city high schools, Central Iowa Business
College, and the Marshalltown Junior College at-
tend. The project is still in the experimental stage,
but one thing is certain—it is satisfying the stu-
dents’ clamor for a place to dance and it is keeping
them happy.

The room has been endorsed by school authori-
ties, juvenile judge, ministers, and has the en-
thusiastic support of parents.

The Spider's Web

This account of the Youth Center in

BurlingtonI Iowa. was furnished by
the Burlington Chamber of Commerce

IN RECENT YEARS, and especially in 1941 and
1942, various groups in Burlington, Iowa, in-
cluding parent-teacher associations and similar or-
ganizations, have tried without great success to
start a teen age recreation center, The success
that was attained, however, was important in fo-
cusing people’s attention on the usefulness of such
a center for a city suffering from growing pains
caused by defense and war activities.

The official census of 1940 listed Burlington
with a population of 25,832. With the coming of
the Iowa Ordnance Plant and the subsequent em—
ployment of approximately 10,000 people, and with
war production adjustments, the population figure
jumped to 41,456 people, according to a survey
made for the new City Directory. This factor of
increased population, coupled with curtailed trans-
portation facilities and an increase in spending

money, all played a part in a renewed demand for
action. ':

AUGUST 1943

This time the action came in the form of an
editorial in October 1942 carried in the public
high school weekly newspaper, The Purple and
Gray, which bluntly asked for the cooperation of
the public in the project. Impetus was added one
Thursday noon when the high~school principal,
the editor of the school paper, and four students
attended a regular Kiwanis Club luncheon meeting
and told their story. The Kiwanis Club was in—
terested, and the president appointed a committee
to investigate. On the following Thursday the
committee reported the unanimous opinion that a
recreation center was needed and told the club
members it was too big a project for an indi-
vidual club.

The Kiwanis 'Club took the lead in organizing
a Citizens’ Committee, selecting members from the
Ministerial Association, service clubs, parent-
teacher associations, and the Junior and" Senior
Chambers of Commerce. Later student members
from the public high school, the Burlington Junior
College, and the Catholic High School selected
student members and faculty representatives to
serve on the general committee.

As the next step, subcommittees
were formed from the Citizens’
Committee of twenty-two members.
One such committee tried to interest

 

Every Saturday attern
people of Charlotte.
the strains of a juke
the city's Auditorium
to the Park and Recre

CENTERS ALL THEIR OW’N! 281

private firms in establishing the center inasmuch
as these firms were manufacturing soft drinks;
another group began looking around for a suitable
site, while a third subcommittee made plans for
financing the project.

The committee which approached the private
firms did not achieve its goal. The site selection
committee found rooms around town ranging from
$75 to $175 monthly, but all lacked certain things
which were wanted and needed. Since several
committeemen were active in the Y.M.C.A., the
search for accommodations led to the “Y” build-
ing, and after a favorable reaction from the Board
of the Y.M.C.A. the committee presented the pro-
posal to the public high school assembly.

The committee pointed out to the students the
many advantages of the proposed location in the
“Y” building and suggested an election to decide
the matter, with the assurance that if the majority
of the students did not favor the idea the commit—
tee would continue its search for suitable quarters.
It was explained that the plan involved the erec-
tion of a partition which would separate the pro-

posed recreation center from other
quarters in the building, the only en-

would be on the second floor, thus assuring addi-
tional privacy. The plan called for three rooms to
be used as lounges and cloakrooms for which the
Y.M.C.A. would receive a monthly rental of $60.

A preliminary election was held to discover how
many students would use such a center if it were
Opened. Over 600 expressed approval of the idea.
A second election was then held to determine the
students’ reaction to the use of the “Y” building.
The election resulted in over 600 affirmative votes,
with only 34 against the location.

All these meetings and elections had taken time,
and it was now the middle of December. All
downtown and suburban drug stores were crowded
with students in the late afternoons and early eve-
nings, so the suggestion came naturally from them
that a soda fountain was imperative. The meme
bers of the budget committee began their figuring
and offered a recommendation for a budget of
$2,500 to furnish the center and operate it for one
year. The general committee approved the budget,
and a dozen men were given responsibility for
raising money.

The budget committee went to work, and as a
first step divided the business interests of the city

5 many of the young
Zarolina, dancing +0
l'heir dance floor is
as been turned over
mmission +0 operate.

into groups such as retail, wholesale, and manu-
facturing. Members of the committee were given
definite assignments, and with two or three others
to help them, approached their “prospects.” Clubs,
lodges, and organized groups were also solicited.

Although all this took place just before Christ-
mas and all the committeemen were extremely
busy with their private affairs, the $2,500 was over-
subscribed by $150.

With this money in the bank, it was time for the
planning committee to go into action. New daven-
ports and other furnishings were purchased. A
businessman with a son in high school donated a
soda fountain, Approximately $1,600 was spent
on furnishings and $400 in installing the fountain.

Things were now booming, and students were
showing more interest than ever in the project.
Several who had some experience in local drug
stores volunteered to work at the fountain. The
student in charge, whose job it was to operate the
fountain and keep sufficient help on hand, was
given thirty cents an hour. For the first month a
matron was hired at a salary of $50 a month to act
as manager and supervisor. At the end of the
month, however, a public-spirited woman volun—
teered to take over, and at the present time a part-
time matron is employed at fifty cents an hour to
work for five to ten hours a week. The center is

RECREATION

trance being by one door which could
be locked. A separate stairway would
be provided since the club rooms

 

Duke Photo, Charlotte, North Carolina

282 CENTERS ALL THEIR OIVN!

Open each weekday afternoon
from 3:30 to 5:30; on Mon-
day evenings from 8:00 to
10:00; on Friday evenings
from 7:30 to 11:00; and on
Saturdays from 7 :30 to II :30.

What was the center to be
called? The high school newspaper sponsored a
contest for a suitable name. Dozens of entries were
received, and the judges finally awarded a prize
for the name, “The Spider’s Web,” submitted by
a student at the Catholic High School.

Fired with youthful ambition, the students then
tackled the problem of cleaning and renovating
their quarters. They scrubbed and waxed the
floors, and painted the walls and furniture. They
decorated and did the hundred and one odd jobs
necessary. The hallway between the large room
and bedrooms on the second floor is now equipped
with tables and booths, and smoking is permitted
here and in the two rooms used as the girls’ and
boys’ lounges. In the large room where dancing
is allowed, however, smoking is taboo. To com-
plete the picture, a juke box was installed on a
percentage basis, with a weekly profit of $6.00 or
$7.00 to the center.

A Board of Directors manages the Student
Center, Inc., which is a nonprofit'organization
and corporation, and the Board holds monthly
meetings. The students have their own self-
elected Board of Managers which meets weekly,
and they make and enforce their own rules. Age
limits for membership are fifteen to twenty-one,
and dues are fifty cents for the school year, from
September; to September. Students. may bring
guests but they must first obtain guest cards signed
by the matron. Students now in training for mili-
tary service need not have guest cards to visit the
center. Card playing is not allowed and liquor is
very much taboo. Pool, checkers, chess, and simi-
lar games are popular. There have been one or
two cases of minor “roughhouse,” but these were
far from serious and no student has been suspended.

The center was opened February 20th of this
year, and it is now anticipated that an annual
deficit of about $500 will result. This amount will
be raised annually from the same sources that con-
tributed the initial sum.

Credit for the successful
venture belongs to a large
number of people, including
the students who agitated for
the project, the initial Ki-

As this is written' the latter part of
AprilI I943, "The Spider's Web."
Burlington's teen age recreation cen-
ter' has enjoyed two months of suc-
cessful operationI and indications are
that it has passed the experimental
stage and is now a definite asset.

With delinquency reported to be on the
upswing in many cities. such recreation
centers for young people as that provided
in Minneapolis are helping to solve some
of the problems of the teen age group.

wanis Club committee, the
Club itself, and the committees
active in the financial setup.
But by far the greatest credit
should go to the president of
the Student Center, Inc. This
young man, on the news staff
of the Burlington Hawk—Eye Gazette and a mem-
ber of the Kiwanis Club, worked indefatigably for
the project and finally secured action, so it was only
natural that Ted R. Hammer should be elected the
first president.

Teen Agers of Minneapolis

By ELEANOR J OHNSTONE

" ISTEN, INFANT! Anybody who is anybody be-

longs to Youth Center!” That is the sign
which greets every boy and girl as he enters Min—
neapolis, Minnesota’s most favorite club for teen
agers, And when they say “anybody” they mean
almost that, for the Center is open to all young

- people of fifteen years or more providing they pay

the very nominal door fee of ten cents.

The Minneapolis Youth Center provides the
kind of night life that both the young people and
their parents heartily favor: There’s plenty of
dancing to the latest recordings and, on special
nights, to Bob Rognas and his high school orches-
tra. And in between dances the teen agers wander
over to the soft drink bar, where chocolate sun-
daes are the favorite “picker~uppers.” Some pre-
fer a lively game of ping-pong, or maybe a game
or two of pool. -

Mrs. E. C. Enbody and the Minnesota Fifth
District of Women’s Clubs are responsible for this
contribution to the social life of Minneapolis’
younger set. .Mrs. Enbody, who was to become
president of the Fifth District Club, has always
been interested in young people; consequently it
set her to thinking when a girl who happened to
be working for her about four years ago asked
her if there wasn’t a place in Minneapolis where
young people who didn’t care to drink could have
a good time. ‘

Mrs. Enbody promptly set to work and suc-
ceeded in winning the cooperation of the Minne-
sota Fifth District of Wom-
en’s Clubs and the help of a
number of other organiza-
tions, merchants and business
men. With their ‘c00peration
it was possible to purchase an

RECREATION

CENTERS ALL THEIR OWN! 283

old historic mansion on Park
avenue. The response to such
a project was so immediate
that over 500 boys and girls
became members even be-
fore the Center was offici—
ally opened in July 1940.

Although the “Y.C.,” as
the young people affection-
ately call it, can comfortably
accommodate about 100 or
120 boys and girls, as many
as 303 have attended in a
single evening! The official
opening hour is 7:00 P. M.,
but Mrs, Harty, the house—
mother, says that she often
lets early comers in at 6 :00.
“They just can’t seem to
wait until the doors open,”
she says, “andI hate to keep
them outside waiting.”

Although at first the cen-
ter was open to members
only, it was soon decided that it should be open to
all young people. A council composed of some of
the older boys and girls was formed, and they
assist Mrs. Harty in supervising the rest of the
group.

Every Wednesday evening is “Surprise Night.”
Mrs. Harty, in cooperation with the Mothers’
Club, plans some sort of special treat. Sometimes
it may be
spaghetti
and sand-
w i c h e s,
doughnuts
. and milk,
or perhaps m
a caramel
appleor
candy bar;
a t o t h e r
t i m e s a
magician or
a troupe of
dancers are
brought in
to provide
some added
entertain -
m e n t .

Through
AUGUST 1943

 

Courtesy Tribune Library, Minneapolis

 

such devices it has been pos-
sible to maintain a maximum
of interest and cooperation
and a minimum of discipline.
The playing of the nickel-
odeon at first presented
quite a problem, because of
the fact that certain groups
would always stand around
waiting for someone else to
put in the next nickel, Mrs.
Harty was able to find a
satisfactory solution by
charging an extra five cents
at the door. In this way the
machine is kept running all
evening long, with everyone
contributing equally.

When the Y. C. first
opened, the boys far out-
, numbered the girls. The
latter soon told fellow class—
mates the good news, how-
ever, so that now the ratio

of boys to girls is more equal. _
. In the three years that the Center has been in
operation many changes have taken place. Three
different orchestras and a glee club have been
formed, all of which have been organized and
directed under voluntary service, Five boys have
studied the Morse Code. Since that time they
have entered the armed forces where this knowl-
edge has
proved in-
valuable.
Recently
the young
people have
been meet-
ing for reg—
ular round
table dis-
cussions.
Students
represent-
ing the var-
ious high
schools get
together
and discuss
such prob-
le m s as
postwar

Courtesy Tribune Library, Minneapolis

284 CENTERS ALL THEIR OWN!

planning and youth’s place in the world of to-
morrow.

The four lots purchased with the house are now
being used in part for the Center’s own victory
garden. The members, through their own efforts,
have raised funds and provided new linoleum for
the kitchen floor and a new cover for one of the
pool tables; the floor in the girls’ lounge has been
sanded, and some of the older boys have volun-
teered to paint the floor in the hall downstairs.
They take pride in keeping the two lounges and
the smoking room adjoining the two dance floors
conspicuously neat.

On Mondays and Tuesdays the Center closes at
IO:30 P. M.; on \Vednesdays at II :00 P. M.; and
on Fridays and Saturdays the doors stay open
until midnight. The fifteen-year-olds must go home
at 9:00 o’clock unless they
bring a note from their par-

ents. Checkers are popular at the "drop in"
room set aside especially for the use
of the teen age crowd at Peabody Rec-
reation Center in Memphis. They drop
in tor a chat with pals. listen to a
record or two. and perhaps play a game.

The building is often rented
out in the afternoons and on
Thursday and Sunday eve-
nings. Sometimes orchestras

r, .

‘-r-" .a r"'r~.
00f \ f O ‘Q
"‘3 a" E ‘-_-I' .' '1’. ‘1" '. ‘3' ’-  "

 

come there to practice, and then the boys and girls
can come in and dance while the band is practic-
ing. When the Center is rented to other organi-
zations, the young people are still allowed to come
in, but they must confine their activities to the
recreation rooms located in the basement and on
the second floor.

The mothers of these teen agers are behind
them all the way. They have formed their own
Mothers’ Club, and through such projects as rum-
mage sales, card parties, and exhibits, they have
succeeded in raising additional funds for the Cen-
ter, Many mothers come down to act as volunteer
hostesses, or to assist Mrs. Harty in any way
possible.

At Christmas the mothers planned a surprise
party, decorating the building with red and white
crepe festoons and silver bells,
and making up boxes of
candy and surprise packages
which were brought in and
distributed by a gaily be-
decked Santa Claus.

(Continued on page 298)

- «an. ,

.a
5"

RECREATION

Music Week: A Report

OUNDING THIS year’s keynote—“Foster Ameri-

can and World Unity Through Music”—

nearly 3,000 communities throughout the
country took part in the twentieth annual observ—
ance of National Music Week, May 2 to 9.

With 4,000 press clippings already received and
reports from many other cities, towns, and smaller
communities still coming in, it will be months
before a full picture of Music Week observance is
available. From the following report, however, we
can obtain some impression of the extent of this
year’s program. '

Although programs were either on a larger or
a smaller scale and organized with all degrees of
centralization and representation, one aspect of the
observance stands out prominently in a majority
of the reports, Participation included not only
musical-groups but also many other organizations
in which music is only an adjunct to the regular
work—but an adjunct increasingly valued. Thus,
it was fairly common to see lists of participants

like the following from Reading, Pennsylvania:

Public and parochial schools Albright College

Churches Music Teachers Association
Bands Public library

Civic clu'bs - Public recreation

Character building agencies Music Club

Institutions Motion picture theaters
Women’s clubs Music stores
Radio Civic opera company

In Reading the initiative was taken by the Rec-
reation Department which demonstrated during
Music Week the good will and cooperation it had
enlisted among the civic and educational groups in
the city.

'Among the other cities in which a Recreation
Department had a prominent part were Cedar
Rapids, Iowa; Alton, Illinois ; York, Pennsylvania;
and Radford, Virginia.

The initiative for planning Music W'eek pro-
grams and enlisting cooperation most often comes
from a musical group within the community. This
was especially the case in 1943 when the Federated
Music Clubs designated the observance as the set—
ting for their Festival of the Air, conducted over
the four leading national radio chains with assist-

ance by a large number of local stations and local
clubs.

The Festival, which replaced the biennial con-a
ventiOn, served to cut out the traveling a meeting

AUGUST 1943

With 4.000 press clippings already received
and reports from many other cities. towns'
and smaller communities still coming inI it

will be months before a full picture of
Music Week is obtained. Some indication
of the Week's scope. however. can be de-
termined from the reports so far received.

 

would have involved and to treat the country to a
series of beautiful and distinctive broadcast pro—
grams. In several states the series was opened by
the governor or mayor of the capital city, with a
tribute to the special service of music in wartime
and the need for maintaining standards of music
education in war as well as in peacetime.

Although gas rationing and other wartime exi-
gencies interfered with some large outdoor gather-
ings and indoor events often associated with Music
Week, the occasion was used in many places as a
setting for patriotic programs, including concerts
at which War Bonds were sold during intermis-
sion or were used as tickets of admission.

In line with the inter—American phase of Music
Week, many programs consisted of Latin Ameri—
can music and music of the United Nations. At
such programs there were sometimes addresses by
prominent citizens, stressing the unifying influ-
ence of music and its value in bringing together
diverse elements in the community; the special
need of its aid in these times as a stimulus and
release from strain; the importance of maintaining
standards of music education; and opportunities
to hear good music.

“Home Nite” was a feature in some of the
smaller communities, with the family and neigh—
bors gathered for a musical program performed by,
and for, an intimate circle, or arranged as a “list-
ening party” to one of the Special radio programs
of Music Week.

This type of program was a popular feature at
the beginning of the Music Week movement when
towns celebrated at different times before the syn-
chronization in 1924. Now “Home Nite” seems
to be back again, revived by the need for finding
pleasure and relaxation without the use of the
family car.

(Continued on page 302)

A Far Country

literature there is ref-

erence to life in the
open country. Boys and
girls who have grown up
watching the sheep in the
pasture or on the range
find more meaning in the words, “The Lord is my
Shepherd.” It is not easy for the men and women
who grew up as children on city pavements to
think in terms of sheep in the pasture and cattle
on a thousand hills.

IN so MUCH of religious

Isaiah, with pr0phetic vision, wrote: “As a
sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth
not his mouth.” Only those who have worked
with sheep remember that one does not hear a cry
or.a groan from a sheep while she is being shorn.

_My father’s farm was in the hill country of
Ohio, twenty-five miles west of the Ohio River,
and I had charge of the sheep. One sum-
mer, when I was about eighteen years old,
there was a very abundant harvest on the
farm and the barns were crowded to the
rafters with hay and com. I sug—
gested to my father that it might
be a good business venture to
buy sheep.

I told my father of a man in
West Virginia, twenty-five miles
east of the Ohio River, who was
advertising sheep for sale, and
told him if he would give me
the money I would go to
see these sheep, and if they
seemed to suit our pur-
pose I would buy them and
drive them the fifty miles
back to our farm.

Father gave me $300,
and on Monday morning
I put the saddle on our lit-
tle roan riding horse, and
with my pocket full of
money started on my first
business venture. We
reached the farm in West
Virginia by sundown. The
following day I went

286

"‘

Recalling a few of the recreation
memories lost to the city dweller

By JOHN ICKIS

  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
 

Print by Gedge Harmon

"One of the problems which the recreation
worker faces is that of trying to make up to
the children in large cities. and even in the
smaller towns, something of what they have
missed in the understanding of nature. There
is so much in the literature of the world
that can be given greater meaning if our
boys and girls have had an opportunity
to go out from our cities and see and un-
derstand a little of nature. If necessary it.
can to some extent be learned in the city
itself. if the right leadership is provided."

through the flock and
selected fifty sheep and
paid for them. On an ad-
joining farm I bought
twenty-five more sheep. By
Tuesday evening I had a
flock of seventy-five sheep
to drive down'the twenty-five miles of winding
roads of West Virginia to the Ohio River and then
up the twenty-five miles from the west bank of the
Ohio to my. father’s farm.

Wednesday morning we started the flock of
sheep out on the public highway. I sometimes since
have wondered how a boy and his pony could
drive a flock of seventy-five sheep for fifty miles
on a public highway without the loss of a single
sheep.

All day Wednesday we drove the flock wesu-
ward and by evening we had reached the river,
herded the sheep on the ferry
and made the crossing. Then we
drove them up into the Ohio
hills where we found pasture for
the flock and a place where
Jerry, my horse, and I could
pass the night.

By this time I had begun to
wonder what my father was
thinking of my adventure. He
had seen me, an over—grown boy
with perhaps an exaggerated
Opinion of my knowledge
of sheep, with no compan-
‘ ion save my pony, go to
what seemed to be a far
country and there deal
with an entire stranger.

Early Thursday mom-
ing we started the Hock up
through the hills toward
home on the last day of
the drive, h0ping to arrive
before nightfall. It was well
toward evening when from
a sudden turn in the road
I saw a high hill about a
mile away which was my

(Continued on page 306)
RECREATION

A.

A New Challenge in Nature Recreation

and craft work be
successfully carried

on at the same time?”
We determined to find the
answer to this question at

ll CAN NATURE field trips

By FRANCES J. GILLOTTI

The "Setting"—the Institute on Outdoor
Recreation and Wartime Camping held at
Massachusetts State College. May I943.
The "Actors"——"Cap'n Bill." Professor of

Nature Recreation at the College and

picture of a bean, went on
to show the young plant
backing out of the ground,
and continued through to
the development of some of
the leaves. My bean “movie”

the InStitUte at AlnherSt- friend of all recreation workers; Mrs. IOOkEd like the illuStration

And we wanted to prove
the truth of Mrs. Marsh’s
statement: “There are three
especially good craft activi-
ties for the out of doors,
and all three of them are sketching.”

We went about it this way:

Each afternoon when the weather allowed, we
met with Cap’n Bill and Mrs. Marsh for our com-
bination nature field trip and craft class. Equip-
ment consisted of several sheets of clean white
paper clipped on a stiff piece of cardboard, a pen-
cil or two, sharp eyes, a sense of humor, and a bit
of imagination.

At first some of the group were quite skeptical
about their ability to sketch from nature, but Mrs.
Marsh remedied that situation by her statement
that everyone has within himself a certain, innate,
creative ability, and that there is no necessity for
being timid about expressing it on paper.- This
statement gave us a little more of ‘the confidence
that we needed and so proved helpful.

On our first afternoon out we found several in-
stances where nature observations, facts, and crafts
fitted together exceptionally well. Stopping a
moment at one of the faculty gardens, Cap’n Bill
- announced that we had a “movie” before us .we
could easily retain by our own sketching. At first
we could see only neat rows of beans, but it didn’t
take us long to realize that some bean seeds de-
veloped into plants more rapidly than others, and

'it was the story of this development that was the
subject for the

“movie” Cap’n
Bill had men—
tioned. Our
sketches were
quite simply
d o n e. W e
started the
series with a

AUGUST 1943

Chester 6. Marshl Arts and Crafts Ad-

viser. Girl ScoutsI Inc.. and a group of
students at the institute, a little skep-
tical about it all but eager to learn!

 

at the bottom of the page.

A little farther along our
chosen trail we found a
small grove of horse chest-
' nut trees. At this spot we
sketched the pictures for our second “movie,”
which showed the shape and variation in the num-
ber of leaflets on one stem. Cap’n Bill helped us
make some new observations about the trees and
leaves, and Mrs. Marsh told us about some of the
possibilities of using our sketch of a horse chest-
nut leaf as a design for craft articles, such as
hooked rugs and booklet covers. There were many
other subjects to sketch that first afternoon, but
the examples given will serve to show how much
more that field trip meant to us because of the
sketches which we could refer to at any time if
we wished to refresh our memories about certain
points.

Later on during the week, Mrs. Marsh ex-
plained how to sketch trees without putting too
much detail into the picture. Such a sketch not
only makes a person more observant while doing
the actual work, but also provides a future refer-
ence as to the general shape and structure of that
particular kind of tree. From trees it did not take
Mrs. Marsh long to convert us to sketching land-
scapes and learning how to pick out only the
details that were important to the portion of the
landscape that we wished to show.

But sketching, we discovered, was not the only
craft activity that made for a good combination
with n a t u r e
s t u d y . W e
t u r n e d o u r
early evening-
free time into
work periods
for more crafts
activities, and
learned to do

287

288

many more useful things
that couldn’t very well be
separated from the nature
field, Because an art is best
learned through practice, we
each made little books, thus
learning the useful art of
bookbinding. These books
and some handy portfolios
which we made during an-
other evening’s activity per-

iod, were just right for a
more permanent place in which to keep the sketches

that we did while on field trips. The sketches
could be rec0pied on the pages of the book, or
could be neatly kept as single sheets in the port-
folio.

We learned early in the week that it was most
convenient and sensible to collect as many as pos-
sible of our nature craft materials while out on
our field trips. This was another good example of
the success in combining nature and crafts, for not
only did we discover what craft materials one can
obtain from the out of doors, but also the loca-
tions and identiflcation of such material. It would
not help much to know that black walnut bark
would produce a fine black dye, if we did not
know what a black walnut tree looked like, or
where it would be found growing; or that bitter—
sweet vines are excellent for basketry (if one lives
in a state where the picking of bittersweet is not
prohibited), and that poplar wood is fine for whit-
tling, if one cannot recognize bittersweet vines and
poplar trees.

Making dyes from nature products was a new
venture for most of us, and one that we found to
be quite practical. We collected our materials dur-
ing an afternoon field trip, let some of them stand
in water overnight, and were ready to go to work
on them the next evening. Besides some of the
better-known materials for making natural dyes,
we tried a few new ones at
the suggestion. of Cap’n
Bill or some of the group.
Some of these new ones
were quite successful, while
others did not turn out at
all, but at least we had the
satisfaction of experiment-
ing. Celandine, a plant
having yellow-orange juice
in its stems, was the most
successful of our new dyes,

creative crafts. .

camping.

llThe task of improving artistic standards
falls to the naturalist and craftsman who'
in combining their activities. can develop
in the minds of our campers a new under-

standing of materialsI their growthI preser-
vation and usefulness; a greater sense of

achievement in knowing how to find the right
natural product to answer the need and how
to use it successfully; and finally. a deeper
appreciation of natural beauty
grace inherent in living things we have
come to take for granted."—Pat Jennings.

llToo many of us are frightened- by the words
IartI and 'sketch' and 'design.'
much right to be amateurs in art as in canoe-
ing. But in stimulating crafts in campI in hos-
pitals. or anywhere else' we must insist on
. . The genuine issue is what
is happening to the child' not what he has pro-
duced. . . . Teach crafts with a chance for prog-
ress rather than the repetitive dead-end 'idiot's
delight' brand. . . . Let crafts flow through
not just at specified periods."

A NEW CHALLENGE IN NATURE RECREATION

yielding a soft yellow shade.
The yarn we worked out
was white woolen yarn
which we wet thoroughly
with water and then dipped
into an alum solution be-
fore dyeing. The dyes were
made in large tin cans, which
served the purpose very
well. By means of rolling on
two sticks, each about a
foot long, we kept the yarn
moving in the boiling dye until it reached the
desired shade. The next‘ step was to add vinegar
to the dye and thus “set” the color, making it per—
manent. Then the skeins were placed over a stick
to dry in a shady place.

By notching and lashing four sticks (about a
foot length and one-half to three-fourths inches in
diameter) we made little frames on which to
stretch the material for the tiny hooked rug which
we planned to make with the yarn dyed from
nature’s own colors.

Each of us planned a design for our rug, some
using a design from one of our sketches of some—
thing seen while out on a field trip. This design
was marked out on our background material. Some
designs were planned so as to best utilize, in one
harmonious pattern, the colors of the yarn for
which we had dyes-bright "yellow from onions,
softer yellow from celantine, rich brown from black
walnut, and rose from beets.

We used our jackknives for whittling the cro—
chet hooks which we planned to do the work on
our rugs with. Because our week went all too
rapidly, most of us could not complete our rugs
but took them home for the final work.

Some members of the group did individual craft
work, experimenting with basketry from vines,
weaving on an easy—to-make Navajo loom, and
block prints made on the end of a stick.

There are many, many
other craft activities which
work out very well in com—
bination with nature study,
but our time was limited
to one week, so I have
tried to tell you just about
the experiments we worked
on during that time. By
the end of that time Mrs.
Marsh and Cap’n Bill had

(Continued on page 302)
.RECREATION

and artistic

We have as

—Rutb N oren

How the Ladies "Put: It Over”

E AREN’T so much con-
W cerned now, about what

we should do for our
men in service, for by this time, magazines, news-
papers, and files are bulging with attractive sug-
gestions, Experience has taught us that when
these young, red-blooded Americans are on leave,
they ask three questions: First, “Where can we
get good home cooked food”; Second, “Where is
there a good dance or entertainment where we can
meet some pretty girls”; and Third, “Where can
we sleep tonight comfortably, and still have enough
money to buy breakfast and get back to camp?”
Our challenge is: “How are we going to make
their idea of a wonderful leave come true P”. Our
spirit is willing—many organized groups are cry-
ing for the opportunity to do something for these
young people away from home and destinations
unknown—but we don’t always know how to go
about it.

We’ll forget, for the moment, the romance and
glitter of a successful dance for servicemen and
start from the beginning, going back to the time
when there was no place to hold an affair, no
money to pay the bills, and no one to do the work
-—nothing but a keen desire to be of service—t0
do something—to satisfy that voice within that
says, “I should be doing something definite—some-
thing that will make me sacrifice much of my time
and energy—something that will make me feel
that I am an important, needed, vital force in our
fight for victory and freedom.”

When the Women’s Clubs of the Department of
Public Recreation of Baltimore, Maryland, reached
' this stage of thinking, they decided to take action
and give the boys on leave a place to dance with
nice, attractive girls. After several planning ses-
sions, the following posters, which went to Army
Camps and Coast Guard, were evolved:

SERVICE MEN’S DANCES
Wednesdays
SOUTH BALTIMORE RECREATION CENTER

1010 Light Street——- 7 :30 P. M.

Good Music . . . Friendly H ostesses . . . Refreshments
Sponsored by the Department of Public Recreation
Come and bring your Buddy No admission fee

The machinery was in motion and all were
anxious for the first night to arrive. The women

AUGUST 1943

By RUTH GARBER EHLERs

National Recreation Association

had worked it out carefully and
if everyone did her job, it
couldn’t help but be successful.

Chairman. Someone had to shoulder the re-
sponsibility. In this instance, the supervisor of
clubs drew up the plans, There is always one per-
son who, by reason of position in the organization,
or because he or she possesses certain essential
qualities of leadership, starts the ball rolling. This
person very often inspires others to act.

Initial Meeting. “In unity there is strength.”
Presidents and leaders of all clubs met to discuss
the details. A carefully outlined plan was pre-
sented by the chairman. The plan appealed, and
interest grew. Discussion was enthusiastic.

Where shall we have the dance? The right loca-
tion is so important. A city—owned community
center was offered. It was centrally located and
attractively furnished—-—it had an auditorium for
dancing with a stage at one end ; a beautiful lounge,
checking facilities, games room that could be used
for refreshments, kitchen, and other quiet rooms
for bridge, music appreciation, and other activities
were all attractive features. No rent and the use of
the center’s dishes, coffee urn and adequate jani-
torial service made it all the more ideal.

Where will we get the money and the ration
points? This took more than a little thought! The
group agreed that each of the twenty clubs would
pay $5.00 in the “Defense Dance Fund.” This
money would be kept at the Department of Public
Recreation Office, and all bills would be paid out
of this fund in the usual way all financial matters
were handled. Expenditures were approved, in
this case, by the supervisor of the club department.
It was decided that when this money, (about
$100), was gone, they would either assess each
club for more, or have a benefit to raise money.
As for points, the Recreation Department was able
to share its supply. It cost between $5 and $6 per
dance for food. (They had the benefit, for they
ran out of money!)

How about Music? No music, no dance. The
Department of Recreation gave the women the use
of a Public Address System with victrola attach-
ment and the latest dance records. A young women
employed as a full-time worker at the center played

289

290 HOW THE LADIES “PUT IT OVER”

the records. The boys and girls always had a long
request list of their favorite tunes and orchestras.
The tempo most popular with the dancers was
chosen two out of three records.

Girls? Where to find them? Fifty to seventy-
five girls at each dance proved to be a good num-
ber for the size of the room. Special invitations
were issued to young women whose names were
on the approved invitation lists for camp dances.
Daughters of the club women and nurses from a
near-by hospital cooperated by coming regularly.
They dressed in street length dresses, except on
special occasions when they “dressed up in long
skirts.” There was no limit in the number of boys.

Who will keep the party going? We needed a
hostess! The director of the community center
kindly offered to be the hostess, take charge of the
floor, plan, lead and call the dance mixers, buy
prizes for special dances, introduce men and girls,
and keep the party peppy. She assumed the re-
sponsibility for the conduct on the floor.

Who are the other workers? Very important!
The host was also the door keeper, and if needed,
assisted with conduct problems. He also checked
rigidly on all who entered. The checker, the one
paid worker, was assisted by women’s club mem-
bers. The janitor prepared rooms for the activity
and was generally helpful.

Rules. The fewer the better.

Any man in service, wearing his uniform was admitted.

Approved girls eighteen years and over were invited.
(No cards were used for identifying them, but as at-
tendance grows larger, it might be advisable to issue
membership cards to those invited.)

No one under the influence of alcohol was admitted.

Girls were not permitted to leave the dance and return
the same evening.

No dancing was permitted on the side during a Paul
Jones. The point of a mixer is for everyone to meet
as many people as possible.

It was thought preferable for girls to go home alone or
with girl friends. (This is a most difficult rule to make

popular!)

Refreshments

Provisions were purchased for approximately 100 to 125!
If they ran out, they sent out for more.

The club women came early, arranged and decorated the
tables, made the coffee, served, and washed the dishes.

The food was ordered by the director of the center each
week. With different groups coming each week, one
person had to take over the purchasing of supplies.

The clubs took turns sending six women each week. The
assistant community center director told each new
group how to proceed.

Coffee, tea and milk, were provided each week, and either
buns, cakes or cookies were popular. Now and then
apples or tangerines were in the center of the table.
People of the community anxious to be of service often
donated cigarettes, ice cream, and nuts. The boys and
girls filed by the serving table, sat down around gayly
decorated ping-pong tables, and after chatting and sing-
ing brought their used cups and plates to a table pro-
vided for them, and back to the dance and a little
softer music.

A Good "Warmer-Upper." Get off to a good
start. The building opened early so as to be avail—
able when early comers arrived. In order to hold
those who just “dropped in,” a volunteer pianist
played the piano for singing from 7:30 to 8:30.
This became a very popular attraction. When a
representative crowd had arrived, the dance rec—

-ords were put on, the hostess took her place with

“a large circle everybody,” a Paul Jones was
started, and the party was on. At IO o’clock the
coffee was ready.

By II :30 as “From Dawn ’Til Reveille,” floated
through the rooms, a nice comfortable atmosphere
had been created, Some were still exchanging ex—
periences over their coffee—-some boys had made
friends with the club women, calling them “Mom,”
and were helping wash dishes. Others had be-
come so comfortable in lounge chairs they had
fallen asleep; some were sealing letters written to
“someone back home,” but the majority had found
the best dancers on the floor and were using every
bit of the last record to make up for lost time and
storing up enough to last until the next time.
Then it’s “Good Night”—“See you next week”—
“I’ll be there”———“Thanks for a good time.”

The women had given their first “Defense
Dance” and it did them as much good as it did the
boys. They decided to sponsor the dances every
week from October Ist until May 15th, their club
season.

This is one way to proceed from scratch to the
time we reach the end of the first evening—to that
magic moment when a serviceman turns back, as
he is about to go out of the door and says, “Gee!
I’ve had a wonderful time. This is the most fun
I’ve had since I left home. This is the swellest
dance in town.” Then you say, “Thank you so
much, and won’t you tell all your buddies about
our \Vednesday night parties 3’”. And he says, “N o,
Siree! When we find a place like this we save it
just for ourselves.”

And can you blame them?
RECREATION

'We Had an Old-Time GamesWeek

By EDWARD J. RONSHEIM

Director of Recreation
Anderson, Indiana

activities which had their inception in the

early thirties and, though born of neces-
sity, lived to become fixtures in the city-wide rec-
reation program because of the interest they cre-
ated. The introduction of the games of other years
proved to be a lifesaver when finances made the
Spending of money a problem equal to the present
inability to buy supplies.

Back about 1932, when children were many and
equipment scarce, it was only natural to remember
how we had played three decades earlier. Just as
many a song ages in a few years so had the games
we had enjoyed become “old-time” despite the
fact they had been used for centuries prior to our
twentieth century speed-up. Why not bring these
back the same way the score of a songs returns at
intervals with new words or even the old ones.

Some stores still sold jacks and balls, although
few girls in our part of the country played the
game. A flat rock and a stick or bit of chalk made
hopscotch possible and, if used in its more simple
form, enjoyable. And despite the gaudy strands
of red and blue in the rope and the bright wood
handles girls still “jumped rope.“ At least, some
did. .

True, most boys had never carried a pocket
knife, but there were enough to bring back that
good old dirt-eating game of mumblety-peg. The
_ old wire hoops off sugar barrels belongs to an-
other age, but a strand of wire made it possible to
create a “reasonable facsimile” of the real thing.
Tops were even more of a problem, but a few tools
quickly took care of that. I

Then there were games either boys or girls
could play. Marbles had gone “high hat” with
glass agates the rage. It took some home practice,
but stilt walking caught on
quickly. And there were still
a few horses to provide shoes
for that game. And there were
checkers and croquet.

These games all could be
developed for individual com-

AUGUST 1943

"O LD-TIME GAMES WEEK” is another of those

Many of the old-time games mentioned
by Mr. Ronsheim are described in the
bookletI "88 Successful Play Activi-
ties," issued by the National Recrea-
tion Association. Copies are available
from the Association at 60 cents.

   

Print by Gedge Harmon

petition and so fitted well into the newer concept
of tournament play. They found a ready field in
home conversation with parents ready to tell of
their own almost forgotten abilities. And, at least
to a majority of the players, most of these games
were new.

To be sure, once the practice sessions were
ended and competition eliminated, player after
player, it was hard to hold the losers as spectators
alone. It was not uncommon in those earlier days
of the event to find 250 children and adults at a
single playground watching the youngsters show
their skill. For the losers we offered “Pussy
Wants a Corner,” and the like.

Although the games were centered in one special
week, one of ten special weeks used in the city
during the summer, they offered lots of fun for
much longer periods, just as the other special
events offered constant enjoyment while boys and
girls prepared for the big days ahead.

Equipment was placed in parks and at play-
grounds gradually over a period of a month to six
weeks. It added to the immediate activity and
permitted the development of skills. Furthermore,
it made possible the teaching of large numbers of
persons who -had not even heard of some of the
events. There were girls perched on all corners
playing jacks, boys around every small bare spot
engaged in mumblety-peg, and both girls and boys
falling in a heap in more out-of-the-way spots as-
signed for stilt practice.

Nor were these youngsters
of a dozen years ago, and in
the summers since that time,
less adept than those of two
decades and more before. It

(Continued on page 300)
291

The Seashore Comes to the City

EARBORN is one of the
Michigan cities to
secure tax delin—

quent prOperty from the
State Tax Land Office,
and an area of forty acres
of park land is being de—
veloped to include ball
diamonds, tennis courts, a picnic grove, a chil—
dren’s playground, comfort stations, a community
building, and other recreational facilities.

The city’s new Seashore Pool, opened on Mem—
orial Day, 1942, occupies one corner of the plot.
Shaped like a gigantic saucer, the pool is 190 feet
in diameter with a concrete bottom forming the
entire pool. From the outer edge of the pool,
which is 10 inches deep, the bottom slopes gradu-
ally toward the deep water at the center of the big
basin which reaches a depth of 9 feet. In the
center of the pool is a 20 foot circular concrete
island from which rises a high steel mast support—
ing a modernistic lighting fixture with five acorn—
shaped fioodlights. A special spray installed in the
middle of the fixture can be turned on to form a
huge mist cloud high over the pool.

Near the base of the mast is a brightly colored
ornamental steel canopy containing three radio
amplifiers which carry broadcasts of baseball
games, local news, programs of recorded music,
and appropriate announcements. The canOpy pro—
vides shade for the lifeguard station high above the
pool from which the guards can observe the entire
area.

In the middle of the island is a circular concrete
turret. A stairway descends into the inside of the
island. Built into the walls of the island are four-
teen round glass ports, resembling the portholes
of a ship. Fourteen floodlights are also installed
for underwater lighting around the island, By
walking around in this underwater observatory
and peering out of the various ports, one can see
the activities of swimmers and divers beneath the
surface. This provides fascinating entertainment
to “underwater spectators.” The observatory has
another important purpose in providing an under—
water lifeguard station when the center of the pool
is crowded. By means of prearranged signals the
underwater guard may communicate with the
surface station through speaking tubes.

292

By HENRY D. SCHUBERT
Superintendent of Recreation

Dearborn's streamlined swimming pool
is complete with a white sand beach
and a concrete l'undersea" observatory

Springboards and div—
ing towers are located on
the center island and are
especially built for maxi—
mum service and safety.
The boards are arranged
like the spokes of a wheel
so that divers are diving
away from each other. The deepest water around
the island in the center of the pool is for diving
purposes only and is planned according to uni”
versal standards to be ample for the various heights
of diving boards and yet no deeper than necessary.
This section of the pool is entirely surrounded by
a hairpin type fence which projects several inches
above the surface of the water and extends to the
bottom. The fence, which is 32 feet from the edge
of the island, is designed to provide a barrier and
yet to preclude the possibility of injury to bathers.
At convenient intervals there are gateways through
the fence clearly marked with “Deep Water” signs.

Entirely surrounding the pool is a sand beach
3 5 feet wide, Clean white sand washed and steril—
ized daily lies in water tight concrete in which is
a draining system leading to large sand traps.
Many brightly colored umbrellas are placed on the
beach for the comfort of the patrons. Beach show—
ers are installed around the pool to cleanse bath-
ers’ bodies of beach sand before re-entering the
pool. A chain fence separates the beach from the
outer lawn.

An exclusive baby pool and beach lie on the
outside of the large pool, permitting young chil—
dren to wade and play in the sand to their hearts’
content without interference.

Four water chutes have been installed in the
pool for the enjoyment of bathers. These slides
are provided with sprinklers which form a constant
film of water to lubricate the sliding surface.

A recirculating system is utilized to insure
swimming pool water as clean and as pure as is
possible. Flowing streams of pure water converg—
ing from a great number of inlets Spaced equi-
distantly around the entire circumference to the
outlets in the center of the pool accomplish this
patented system of pool water circulation. This
plant is composed of pumps, filters, and chemical
treatment equipment. On a small scale it is just

(Continued on page 301)
RECREATION

Spool Weaving

"Make and Mend" Column

E DO NOT know the ori-
W gin of spool weaving—

but for many years chil—
dren have woven on spools
both in the schools and on
the playgrounds. It has always been popular, too,
(boys like it as well as girls) but no one, as far as
we know, has designed useful and attractive proj—
ects to be made from the woven strands.

The writer has watched dozens of children work
on their looms; and when she asked what they
were making the answer invariably was “horse
reins l” Perhaps some did use their woven strands
for this purpose, but the majority
of looms were usually discarded
after an hour or two of hard
work. Could it be that they tired
of their weaving because they had
no more exciting use for it than
horse reins?

terials available

Making the Loom

Let’s try some other projects
and, see. But first, here are the
directions for weaving on a spool
if you have never done it.

Take an empty spool (small
ones for thin string and large
ones for heavy cord) and drive
four small brads at equal dis-
tances around the hole at the top.
The edges of the hole must be
perfectly smooth, so it should be
polished with sandpaper or steel

wool. The loom is now ready for
stringing.

To String Loom. Thread one
end of the string down through
the hole in the loom going
from the top to the bottom.
Take the end in your left hand

spool. Now take the cord at
the top of the spool and weave
it in and out around the nails,
going from right to left, and
continue until you have a

AUGUST 1943

With empty wooden spools and pieces

of string among the few wartime ma-
to
spool weaving may again be the vogue.

 

This large spool weaver for rugs is
a piece of curtain pole six inches
long with a hole bored in the cen-
and hold it along with the ter. Four headless nails are driven
in the top' and a crochet hook is
used for pulling the loops over the
nails. Rug yarnI rags cut in three-
quarter inch strips. and old under—
wear may be used. When completed'
sew in round. square. or oval mats.

thread on each side of the
nails. You are now ready to
weave.

To Weave. Bring the thread
to the next nail on left and
hold thread just above the one already in front of
the nail. By means of a crochet hook lift the
thread up over the nail and pull on the thread at
the bottom of the Spool. Then take the thread to
the next nail and again lift the bottom thread over
it and the nail. Continue until weaving is com-
pleted.

Almost any kind of thread may be used in
weaving. An ingenious child will
enjoy mixing his colors by weav—
ing several inches with one color,
then breaking the thread and ty—
ing on another of a different
color.

the craftsman.

What to Make

Now for some projects:

The finished weaving is a round
strand about the size of a lead
pencil, if made from thin cord
such as store string, carpet warp,
or silkalene. These strands can
be made in one color, or the colors
may be mixed. The cotton strands
make excellent lanyards for
whistles, or cords for identifica—
tion tags: The silkalene can be
made into necklaces by combining
three or four strands of blending
colors into a braid or twist. Sev-
eral inches of unwoven string
should be left at each end for

tying the necklace together at

the back of the neck. Strands
of this size can also be used
for dress trimmings. Use cot-
ton thread for wash dresses and
wool or silk thread for woolen
dresses.

If you can find a Spool with
at least a half-inch hole, (you

(Continued on page 306)
293

lt'sBeing Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

ONSERVATION. “International Agree-
ments on Conservation of Marine Resources :

With Special Reference to the North Pacific,” by
Jozo Tomasevich. Food Research Institute. 297

pp- $3-
“Conser'oation and Forest Fire Prevention,”
April 1943 issue of “Program Hints,” Extension

Service, Massachusetts State College, Amherst,
Mass. 16 pp.

C ranbrook Institute, near Detroit, Michigan, has
recently opened a Hall of Plant Associations.
Seven Diocamas reproduce plant communities.
For example, Sleeping Bear Dune is shown as it
appears in August: Sparse areas with dune grass,
quiet places with dune thistle and wormwood,
craters with a fossile forest, and a dune captured
by a forest. A beech-maple climax, a spruce-cedar
bog, and a conifer forest are also shown. Visual

education is both pleasing and effective in three
dimensions.

Deer Mice. (From 1941 Field Report, Regional
Museum, Palisades Interstate Park.) These ani-
mals are quick to catch insects and relish grass-
h0ppers, June bugs, moths, and crickets. Insects
probably also form part of their diet in a wild
state, because late one night when the moths had
collected on the lighted windows, a deer mouse was
seen climbing up on the screen and catching the
moths. The mice also like blackberries and rasp-
berries, That deer mice could be found close to
the museum was evident from the runways around
the museum.

Farmers’ Union and Rural Youths is an all-
family farm organization. Summer camps are
sponsored where juniors combine study with rec-
reation. Special emphasis is placed upon training
for recreational leadership.

“Foods, Wild.” Plant and animal. Cornell
Rural School Leaflet. Cornell
University, Ithaca, N. Y. No.
4, March 1943. 32 pp. Many
sketches to aid in identifi-
cation.

Forests, Community, a re-
cent development in Virginia,
serve as an ideal use of sub-

294

Cap'n Bill makes the suggestion that as
a playground proiect this summer chil-
dren be asked to write brief stories of
nature proiects. They mustI however. be
proiects in which the children have them-
selves talten part. There will be no prizes
but it the items are of sufficient in-
terest they may appear as nature-grams.

marginal lands for recreation and for wildlife
refuges. The General Assembly has authorized
each county, city, and town “to acquire . . . tracts
of land suitable for the growth of trees . . . and to
administer the same.” Several counties have es—
tablished public forests. Virginia also has two
state and two national forests.

Garden Recreation. The appointment of Ben
Cummings as Director of Nature Activities by the
Municipal Recreation Commission of Cincinnati is
a milestone in the cause. The first year he will
devote his energies to training garden leaders. A
160 acre farm will serve as headquarters. Ben has
been an outstanding 4-H leader in Massachusetts.
Executives will watch the project with keen inter—
est. The program was launched March 15.

Lilacs in Bloom. Arnold Arboretum, a part of
Harvard University, attracts 45,000 visitors an-
nually to view the lilacs. Arnold Arboretum has
the largest living tree and‘shrub collection in the
world.

“Nature’s Highway, Along,” by Carroll Lane
Fenton. John Day, New York City. $1.25. 96 pp.
1943. Where and when to find interesting things.
For the youngest naturalists, i.e., before they are
influenced by a formal curriculum. All children
are born naturalists.

Rabbit AI eat. Rabbits have a greater use than
supplying Easter eggs. Rabbit meat is as fine a
delicacy as chicken. Table scraps and packing
boxes are all that’s needed. If in camp, don’t raise
the same rabbits for meat and for pets. Write
U. S, Rabbit Experiment Station, Fontana, Cali—
fornia, for free booklet.

Resources, Personal. Pupils in Glencoe, Illinois,
Public Schools interviewed local citizens. As they
went from home to home they learned of butterfly
collections, located people who
had movies to show and ad-
ventures to relate, discovered
collie fanciers and dahlia
growers, contacted trout and
deep-sea fishermen, hunters,
and horsemen. They are also

(Continued on page 305)
RECREATION

 

WORLD AT PLAY

Further information may be secured from the Na-
tional Association Service, 2017 Glenwood Ave-
nue, Toledo, Ohio.

THE Airport Play—
held in Cincinnati,
Ohio, recently came in
for some “front win-
dow” publicity when seven department stores de-
voted their diSplay windows to the different activi—
ties at the Playfield—bicycling, tennis, golf, arch-
ery, badminton, baseball, and others. One store
carried a placard which read: “IT’S YOUR PLAY—
FIELD—and because you are working harder than
ever before, it’s important that you relax in your
free hours . . . get out in the sun . . . have fun . . .
the Airport Playlield is yours.”

Getting into the
Store Windows

RECREATION officials
in San Diego, Cali-
fornia, estimate that
more than 3,000 chil-
dren are busy on the city’s playgrounds this sum-
mer making games and puzzles for servicemen in
connection with the city’s program of arts and
crafts.

For the Service-
me‘n

TWENTY-FIVE stunts,
games, brain bafHers,
word and pencil games,
coin and match tricks
are included in this Kit. Pocket size, it may be
mailed anywhere in the United States for six cents
and sent overseas under first-class postage.

AUGUST 1943

A Game Kit for Service-
men and Women

THE United Fruit
Company announces
the formation of the
Middle America Infor-
mation Bureau, the purpose of which will be to
present facts about Middle America and the inter-
dependence of the United States and the ten near—
by Middle American nations. The Bureau will be
a central source Where up-to-date information will
be available on such facts as the economy, agri-
culture, history, culture, and social conditions of

The Middle America
Information Bureau

. Middle American countries. Headquarters of the

Bureau are at 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York
City.

SANTA BARBARA, Cali—
fornia, has tackled the
teen age problem by
renting the beautiful
Arcade Building in the heart of the city for a
downtown recreation center. Pupil and student
organizations at the Junior and Senior High
Schools and State College are not only involved
in making plans for the center but are busily en—
gaged in conducting many of the wide range of
activities. The center is also a convenient and in-

295

“Teen Agers” in
Santa Barbara

296 WORLD AT PLA Y

viting dropping-in place for the noon hour recrea-
tion of the younger employed men and women.
Under the leadership of a special supervisor of
teen age activities, weekly dances are conducted by
youth groups for junior and senior high school
young pe0ple. The junior high school dances are
held from seven to nine o’clock on Friday eve-
nings. A charge of five cents is'made which helps
provide refreshments. '

New York State Junior and Boys’ Tennis
Championship—From July 21 through July 25,
1943, the Eastern Lawn Tennis Association held
its junior and boys’ tennis tournament on the
courts of Kirk Park, Syracuse, New York. It was
the first time the Association had held a tourna-
ment on a public park recreation court, and from
that point of view the event had added significance.

Syracuse, under the auspices of the Park De-

partment, has fifty-seven different leagues in soft-
ball and baseball.

Day Camp Program at Piedmont, California
-—The following_program has been planned for

Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Satur-

days at Wildwood :

9:30 - 10:00 A. M. Free play
10:00- 12:00 A. M. Tournaments, leagues; 10w

organization games
11:00-12:00 A. M. Tennis at Linda Courts

12:00 - 1:00 P. M. Lunch ‘

1:00- 2:30 P. M. Traveling dramatic storyteller
2:30- 3 :00 P. M. Free play

3:00 - 4:00 P. M. Puppetry

4:00 - 5:00 P. M. Handcraft

5:00- 8:00 P. M. Informal games for all ages
6:00 - 8:00 P. M. Twilight League

For Your “Hometowri” Vacation—Schuster’s
of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on July 6, 1943, carried
a full page advertisement in the Milwaukee Sen-
tinel pointing out the recreational opportunities
available in Milwaukee, Pictures of activities and
places of interest were included. A part of the ad
read:

“After all, folks have been coming from far and
wide to see the beauties of our city on the lake!
This war year of 1943 is your golden opportunity
to get acquainted with your own home town and
have the time of your life doing it!

“If you like to rough it, there are beauty spots
as rustic as a north woods retreat. If you crave
sand and water, Milwaukee’s own lake shore has
few rivals. If you love big-city life, visit the Art
Institute, the Museum, take a trolley to the other

side of town, visit Milwaukee’s beautiful churches,
lunch at an old-world reestaurant. Do the high
spots. And ‘come back’ refreshed—and with money
to spare !” ’

National Paddle Tennis Tournament—The
men’s and women’s open championships at the
National Paddle Tennis Tournament will be held
this year under the auspices of the United States
Paddle Tennis Association, in cooperation with the
Parkchester Recreation Department, 1970 East
Tremont Avenue, New York City. Games will be
played on August 21st at 11:00 A. M.,‘ the finals
on August 28th at 2:00 P. M. There will be an
entry fee of 50 cents for singles or $1.00 for
doubles, which must accompany the application.
Entries close August 16th. Checks should be made
payable to the United States Paddle Tennis As-
sociation, Madison Square Boys Club, 301 East
29th Street, New York City.

Young People’s Clubs in St. Paul—Young
people’s clubs Sponsored by the Recreation Bureau
of the St. Paul, Minnesota, Park Department, are
proving very successful, Seasonal parties, tourna-
ments, horseback riding parties, excursions, pow-
wows, picnics, skating parties, and district danc-
ing parties play an important part.

“Fun Without Danger”—“Fun Without
Danger” is the name adopted by the newly or-
ganized boys’ club of Piedmont, California, which
is sponsored by the Police Department. A pro-
gram of athletics, picnics, swimming parties, and a
hobby show in the summer has been planned by
the grOup.

Entertainment for Junior Parties—Under the
name, Kiddie Kapers, the National Association
Service has brought together twenty games and
stunts, each illustrated, designed for boys and girls
from live to fifteen years of age. These may be
used at gay parties, on rainy days, and for the en-

tertainment of convalescents, Further information

may be secured from the National Association
Service, 2017 Glenwood Avenue, Toledo, Ohio.

Mother’s Club Active—Under the leadership
of the Superintendent of Recreation of Piedmont,
California, and a skilled specialist, the Havens
Mother’s‘Club is conducting a day-by-day, hour-
by-hour program for kindergarten and first and
second grade children. The services of 100 volun-
teer mothers will make it possible to give this ser-
vice during the entire vacation period.

RECREATION

GOVERNOR APPEALS FOR MORE PLAY OPPORTUNITIES 297

The Governor of Massachusetts
Appeals for More Play
Opportunities

OVERNOR LEVERETT SALTONSTALL recently
6 issued a public appeal to local officials and
to civic groups to intensify their efforts to provide
recreational opportunities for children during the
current summer. His message read as follows:

“Until the public schools open in September,
many more children than normally are without
adequate adult companionship by reason of the
employment of both of their parents in war plants,
the absence of older brothers serving in the armed
forces, and the employment of sisters and older
brothers in emergency occupations connected with
the war, There is an increase in the number of
children who, because of necessary curtailments in
public transportation, will be deprived of the bene—
fits of customary places of recreation.

“It becomes the responsibility of the community
to make sure that in spite of these deprivations
and emergency conditions all children be afforded
the help that only happy play can give them in
growing to their fullest strength and character.

“Therefore, I ask the mayors of cities and
boards of selectmen of towns, and all civic groups
to join in taking whatever steps are necessary to
provide and to promote additional recreational
services for children. These may include:

“Making available all public facilities, both in-
door and outdoor, which lend themselves to recre-
ational use, including public schools, libraries, and
other public buildings, lands and open spaces.

“Recruiting and training such leadership as may
be needed to give direction and supervision to the
activities and programs promoted thereon, and

“Encouraging a well-rounded program of sports
and physical activities, games, music, nature, gar—
dening, crafts, hobbies, and such other activities as

may be of interest and bring joy and happiness to
the children of the community.”

 

 

Backyard Playgrounds—In sections of the
city where public playgrounds are not accessible,
the OCD of Chicago is planning block and zone
play centers in several adjacent backyards. The
centers will be equipped with fireplaces. Large-
sized brick-shaped wooden building blocks will be
made out of orange crate material, and there will
be sectional playhouse panels which the children

can join together as their fancy dictates in making
playhouses.

AUGUST 1943

 

WARTIME
Championship

Tennis Ball!

The best ball that can

be made of available
materials. Its performance
surprises even experts.

0 Yes, you can play good tennis this season. Just
use the new Wilson Wartime “Championship”
Tennis Ball. Materials and conditions considered,
it’s the top quality ball of the day. There is not a
fraction of an ounce of crude rubber in it. All
materials are non-restricted. Yet the performance
of this Wilson wartime ball is amazingly good. Off
the racket and off the court it has plenty of life,
and it stands‘the gait surprisingly well. Such great
stars as Don Budge, Ellsworth Vines, Alice Marble,
Bobby Riggs, Mary Hardwick and others endorse
the Wilson Wartime “Championship” as “the best
ball of the year.” See your dealer. Wilson Sport-
ing Goods Co., Chicago, New York and other

leading cities.

Wuhan
TENNIS EQUIPMENT

It’s Wilson today in sports equipment

298 “VACATIONING IN CHICAGO”

  
 

   

1k
DIAMOND

Has Gone To War

The Army. Navy and Air Corps
are using the material that used
to go into the famous Diamond
pitching horseshoe line. When
the war is wonI it'll be back to
Business As Usual.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE' C0.

46|0 Grand Avenue. Duluth. Minn.

 
   
   
       
      

Teen Agers of Minneapolis
(Continued from page 284)

There have also been three parties for service-
men, In November, 1941, a group of out—of—town
soldier boys stationed at Fort Snelling were in-
vited to a special Thanksgiving party. When the
two women who were to assist Mrs. Enbody in
serving the boys were unable to come, a young
lieutenant took over and fried hamburgers for the
entire group! Because the party was such a suc-
cess, another was given at Christmas. This time
the Japanese-American soldiers from their special
school in Savage, Minnesota, were the Youth Cen-
ter’s special guests. And last Christmas the doors
were again thrown open to welcome the boys in
uniform.

In October 1942, the first issue of the Echo,
Y.C.’s own publication, came out. It is full of
teen age gossip, news of the Mother’s Club, Harty
news, and a message from Mrs. Enbody. Local
advertising more than covers the cost of editing
and publishing this monthly bulletin.

Since the war started, Mrs. Harty has seen
about seventy-five of “her boys” leave for the ser-
vice. Every mail brings at least one or two letters

"Vacationing in Chicago”

TfHE CHICAGO RECREATION COMMISSION has is-
sued an attractive booklet designed to help the
many people who are spending this summer’s va-
cation at home. Many attractions are offered the
at-home vacationist in this booklet. The first sec-
tion tells travelers how to get around the city.
Then comes a list of sports to watch and play, fol-
lowed by sights worth seeing and information
about the eight wonders of the city, including
museums and institutes and the Planetarium.

Chicago buildings and commercial and industrial
plants are described, and a section entitled “Around
and About the City” tells of a number of out-
standing avenues and boulevards and what may
be seen on them. “Touring the Old World” lists
a number of foreign settlements. There is a sec-
tion on servicemen’s centers of which Chicago has
a large number. Musical entertainment, schools
and libraries, the principal parks of the city,
churches of interest, and suburban attractions are
listed, and as a final section there are programs
for seven days of sightseeing. Copies may be se-
cured at five cents each from the Chicago Munici-
pal Reference Library.

The Recreation Commission has also issued a
booklet, “Recreation for Servicemen,” giving in-
formation on servicemen’s centers, sports, churches,
and points of interest.

from the boys in camp, and they never cease to
express their appreciation for the good times they
had at the Center, One boy in a camp a thousand
miles away wrote that he had happened to meet
three of his friends whom he had known at Y.C.,
but hadn’t seen, of course, since he had left for the
Army. He said, “You’ll never know what a good
time we had in talking over those evening get-to-
gethers at the Center. It seemed almost like being
home again.” ’

Another boy, upon hearing Mrs. Harty had been
sick, wrote, “Gosh, I hope you take real good care
of yourself, Mrs. Harty. To many of us you’ve
really been a second mother, you know, and we
don’t want anything to ever happen to you.”

Although she doesn’t have time to answer all the _
letters, Mrs. Harty places each one on the desk for
all who wish to read it. And you may be sure that
Bill or Tom or Joe or Mike, wherever he may be,
won’t feel lonesome because he doesn’t receive any

letters from home. His old friends at Y.C. will
take care of that.

RECREATION

A CLINKING AND A CLANKING DOWN IN MEMPHIS! 299

A Clinking and a Clanking
Down in Memphis!
(Continued from page 258)

From the old felt hats novelty lapel pins have
been made, The sweaters furnished plenty of
yarn for weaving, on macaroni, attractive costume
belts. The broomsticks are used for individual ap-
paratus equipment. Best of all, the children had
loads of fun and did their bit for Uncle Sam, and
the playground attendance increased tremend-
ous'ly through community interest.

In connection with the sale of war stamps, rec-
reation workers will want to note the statement
issued by the Treasury Department to camp di-
rectors, which might equally'well have been ad—
dressed to playground directors. The statement,
which urges that the excellent record of American
boys and girls for the purchase of war stamps
through the school year be encouraged during the
summer, reads as follows:

Here's what Camp Directors can do:

1. Designate one counselor to assume responsibility for
the sale of War Stamps.

2. Designate one day in the week when stamps will be
sold in some convenient assembly place.

3. Set up a regular “Stamp Sale” booth or space.

4. Set aside a fund of money, or “Stamp Bank,” with
which to maintain a stock of War Stamps.

5. Assist the children tomake out a schedule of stamp
tbuying, marked by dates in their albums.

6. Remind them to keep to their schedules.

Providing Recreation Equipment
for the Army

(Continued from page 267)

tubes and four extra battery packs. The portable
phonograph can be played through the radio if
desired. When, for military or other reasons, the
regular radio programs cannot be tuned in, the
transcriptions bring the soldiers their favorite en-
tertainment. Also in this kit are paper—bound song
books and such novelties as tonettes, harmonicas
and the bazookas made famous by Bob Burns.
Men on all the fighting fronts are getting real
fun and entertainment from all of these kits. For
this reason the Army is sparing no effort in see-
ing that every soldier gets good merchandise, and
enough of it, at the right time, and in the right
place. This service to the American soldier is

paying large dividends in terms of good morale
and well—being.

AUGUST 1943

 ()0? RW ATHLETIC

Wm EQUIPMENT

ME '1} w 1 mt hm: Ema- '60:: E. 25th SL125 193325.83"!
Biz 2; 181] 'L Washer Hr Emcezo Ill.

 

A Summer Recreation Program for a

Small Community

( Continued from page 256)
hour which proved very successful. Many of the

older boys and girls brought their younger brothers
and sisters to the playground and left them at the
story hour while they played games.

The playground work shifted on Tuesday morn-
ings to the city—owned swimming pool where,
through cooperation with city officials, it was pos-
sible to have free use of the pool during morning
hours. The pool was used afternoons and nights
for paid admissions. Youngsters were taught to

. swim and dive and were given the rudiments of

rescue work, As soon as the little folks received
their swimming certificate, they paid the usual
swimming admission price.

Tuesday afternoon the program moved back to
Alpine Park with games similar to those on Mon-
day mornings, with wrestling and boxing added
for the older folks. Wednesday morning again had
games similar to Monday morning, with quiet
game tournaments held in checkers, quoits, em-
peror, stick the disks, and other similar games.
Wednesday afternoon found more softball games
at the ball park.

More games were scheduled for Thursday
mornings at Alpine Park, with tumbling added
for diversification. Thursday afternoon each week
was given over to a hike to the near-by hills.
Usually a picnic lunch was served and stories were
told during rest periods.

Friday morning was again devoted to activities
at the swimming pool, while Friday afternoons,
during most of the summer, were given over to
variety programs such as a treasure hunt, a pet
show, and a tennis tournament. When prizes were
offered, they were in the form of ten cent war
stamps.

The allowance of $25 from the city provided
several new games, supplies for repairing those on
hand, and the war stamps used for awards.

A summer recreation program had been carried

300 WE HAD AN OLD-TIME GAMES WEEK

out in Salida for six years, but during the summer
of 1940 and prior to that time nothing but softball
was offered to any great extent. Two years ago,

when the diversified program was started, it got
off to a slow start the first week, with attendance

growing steadily only to fall off again in the last
two or three weeks.

Last summer, in spite of the fact that older chil-
dren were able to get employment in and about
town, all attendance records were broken and each
week showed a steady increase in attendance. Both

boys and girls enjoyed the program.
Chief of Police Frank Flood of Salida has

praised the program greatly, pointing out that
there has been a remarkable decrease in juvenile
delinquency during the time the program has been
in existence. Board of Education members are
happy over the results of the program and plan,
if possible, to continue with it this summer. Many
tourists through Colorado have watched the pro-
gram in operation and have commented favorably

on the wide range of games ofi‘ered.

War Recreation in the Nation's Capital
(Continued from page 274)

Theater, where a year ago Washingtonians gath-
ered to stretch themselves happily on the gently
rolling ground, under the shadow of the Wash-
ington monument, and joined in the volume of
community sings to the accompaniment of the
nation’s great military bands.

Picnics Always Popular

Daily, pe0ple come to the Department’s head-
quarters, requesting permits for some one of the
I30 picnic areas covering 6,000 acres which are
available for all year—round use. Nearly a half
million persons of all ages, races, and from all
walks of life, soldiers and civilians, seek the per-
mission which will secure for them and their com—
panions the undisturbed occupancy of a cool, in—
viting spot in the depths of one of the many parks
within the District or its outlying areas.

To replace many of the recreational facilities
withdrawn because of the war building construc-
tion, parking, antiaircraft installations, and sabo—
tage protection, the Department is busy supervis-
ing a half million dollar streamlined development
program. "Most of these replacements are for ten-
nis courts, softball, football and baseball fields.

Such are a few of the facilities the Recreation
Department of Washington, D. C., brings to the
nation’s workers and those within its gates.

We Had an Old-Time Games Week

(Continued from page 291)

was surprising to find these old-timers had the
same appeal for play as they had had to parents
and grandparents. Nor was it long before each
player had his own favorite knife, or ball for jacks,
or jumping rope. '”

Skill and variety were urged rather than endur-
ance. There was no thought given to how many
times a girl could jump a r0pe. Rather, this was
frowned upon. If a girl made ten consecutive
jumps, and she was given three chances, it was
accepted as having demonstrated she had per-
fected that style of jump, One girl, several years
ago, worked up her act into a fine art. She even
did a flip in the air while the rope passed in its
full swing.

Both girls and boys had definite age groups
with an open class for the champions to determine
which winner in any one event went to the city
finals. That meant a dozen to fifteen in each event
staged. Seldom did one person hold two park
titles, and so there were from 120 to I 50 boys and
girls present when the city-wide title events came
around. In most of the events a mistake spelled
doom because the youngsters had spent weeks of
practice and play before the big week in their home
districts gave them-a ticket to the big time.

Elimination schedules were prepared and a blind
draw made just before the final tournament opened.
While the girls were running off their own “big
three,” the boys were engaged in naming cham—
pions in their own select games. In stilt walking,
marbles, checkers and croquet, girls and boys met
as equals. In horseshoes each group had its own
play.

In its peak season there were more than 1,200
different boys and girls entered in actual competi-
tion in “Old—Time Games Week” in the various
centers, Many more than this number had par-
ticipated in practices for weeks before. And it was
a rare thing when a participant failed to bring out
at least two spectators. The finals that year found
nearly 130 still in the running.

The awards: just ribbons-——lots- of them—and a
good time. And today more youngsters in this
city play and enjoy these games their parents
played than is true in a vast majority of other
communities in the nation. And these are games
they take home and use in the backyards week
after week. They take little space and less money.

RECREATION

THE SEASHORE COMES TO THE CITY 301

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys are space saving . . . a complete
Bowling Alley that is operated by the players themselves, no

pin boys required.

TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys sell for a fraction of the cost
of regulation alleys. Superbly constructed to last a life-time.
Though TWO-WAY BOWLING alleys fill every need for com-
petition. relaxation. and exercise. they do not make the
physical demands on the players that regulation bowling does.

Our special "E-Z" construction means easily assembled and iust as
easily taken apart—completely portable—for in or outdoor use.

Two—Way Bowling Alleys now offer many hours of relaxation to our men

and women in the Air Corps, Army, Coast Guard, Marines, Navy, Y.M.C.A.,

W.A.A.C., and U.S.O. from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to Alaska—from
New York to California. (Circular gladly furnished upon request.)

 

     
  
 

l!
l.

I
,r

 

a
;.

- l

' l'l

     

   

’\
/

 
  

     

51mm» RECREATION (Wm),

 

 

EQUIPMENT FURNISHED
Consists of the following:

One High—Grade, Hardwood Alley with swing—
ing ends. 23 feet Overall.

Two sets of ten pins each (20) Highest Grade
Hardwood, 71/2” x 2%” belly thickness.

Twa Hardwood Bowling Balls 3-9/16" in
diameter.

Two Pit Floor Mats.

Two Pit Base Felts.

Two Heavy Swinging CUShions.

500 Score Sheets.

Portable: Packed in sections—-”E Z Set Up"

Construction.
Patent No. 2247769

DIMENSIONS

Length, 23 feet overall.

Width, 32 inches overall.

Height of alley above floor, 18 inches.
Height of both ends from floor, 38 inches.
Approximate shipping weight, 800 pounds.

Alsa Manufactured in the Following Sizes:
IO feet x 22 inches
15 feet x 26 inches

        
  
 
 

 
  


in}: i
Mi l’

\L Jay/mi 41057 Jamar/04m (IA/E. .. J
, BOWLING THE NEW 2-WAY (

 

   I [4 East 32nd St.. NewYork. Tel. LExington 2-8828

The Seashore Comes to the City

(Continued from page 292)

like the usual plant for conditioning a city water
supply.

Continuously water is being drawn from the
deep portion of the pool by powerful centrifugal
pumps. Beyond the pumps, coagulating chemicals
and chlorine gas are jetted into the stream of
water on the way to the top of the great filter beds.
Passing downward in the filters the water is
drawn through several stratas of fine sand and
quartz, leaving behind all foreign residue and

bacteria. The water now has been rendered clear
and sterile.

The bathhouses for men and women, each 40’
by 85’ in size, are of cinder block with stained
trim and rust shade shingles. They are of informal
Early American country style. The front of each
bathhouse, as well as the area around the pool, is
landscaped. The bathhouses are separated by a

AUGUST 1943

well in which are exposed portions of the mixing
chamber and the four large gravity sand filters.
From the ticket booth to the spectators’ promenade
is a passageway over the well in which are housed
piping for the recirculating system and the gas-
fired steam boiler which furnishes steam for the
indirect hot water heater.

Metal baskets are used for checking clothes
which are stacked in steel racks. The bathhouses
contain adequate-toilet and shower facilities with
private dressing rooms and showers for both men
and women.

A charge of I 5 cents is made for children under
sixteen years of age; 25 cents for adults. This fee
includes the rental of bathing suit and trunks,
towel and soap, and the use of showers, and check-
ing. If they wish, bathers may bring their own
suits. In the first season of its operation, from
May 30 to September 7, 1942, the amount re-
ceived from fees was $19,683.79, The total attend-
ance was 107,056.

302. MUSIC WEEK.- A REPORT

.. RECREATION. FOR
WAR WORKERS . . .

1‘HIS booklet, designed to serve as a guide for

workers in charge of recreation in war plants, is
a particularly timely publication. It attempts to sug—
gest in very simple terms the ways in which recrea-
tion can help workers in war plants get the most out
of their leisure time and find personal satisfactions
in spite of their heavy responsibilities and demanding
jobs.

Because community recreation workers have so
definite a responsibility for providing facilities and
activities, suggestions are oifered in the booklet which
will be of interest to municipal recreation depart-
ments and private groups providing recreation.

The chapter headings cover such subjects as Special
Problems in Wartime Industrial Recreation; Activi-
ties; Planning and Startng the Program; The Com-
munity and the War Worker; Organization and Ad-
ministration of the Plant Program.

Appendices offer constitutions andr-by-laws of em-
ployees activities associations and athletic associa-
tions, a form for an industrial recreation interest
survey, a number of sample programs, and similar
information.

Order your copies at 35 cents each
from the

National Recreation Association

315 Fourth Avenue ‘ New York 10, N. Y.

 

A New Challenge in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 288)

proved very well indeed how inseparable the two
activities can become.

Of course any leader must realize that there is
necessity for adapting activities of this type to the
' particular environment where the group will be
spending its time. One cannot count on using
strips of basswood bark for lashing a hooked rug
frame together, if no basswood grows for miles
around, or using cattails for basketry if there are
no streams or marshes nearby.

N 0 one can doubt that such a combination
doubles all benefits involved, especially if this idea
can be carried out where children are the ones who
are deriving the benefits. It may be accepted as a
sort of challenge to crafts and nature counselors,
and to others who work with young pe0ple, in
seeing just what they can do with this idea.

 

Developing .a Municipal Boating
Program
(Continued from page 270)

are entirely satisfactory for beginners in enclosed
waterways. They have certain unsatisfactory

features for exposed bodies of water. They are
too small to attract adult paying members suf—
iiciently. At least they are a satisfactory beginning
for beginners on an enclosed sheet of water, I
believe that with a month of peacetime leisure to
experiment in, and with the facilities of a boat
yard with a practical boat designer and builder in
charge, I could, with suchrc00peration, work out a
type of boat satisfactory for all kinds of water
areas that are feasible for public sailing, and at

the same time attractive to adult participants.

Music Week: A Report
(Continued from page 285)

Forty-six of the state and territorial governors
issued Music Week proclamations or official state—
ments to the_pressi These documents helped to
impress upon the pe0ple the need for music in
times of strain, and often paid tribute to what was
being done by local musical groups for the welfare
and progress of the community’s life.

The National and Inter-American Music Week
Committee each year c00perates with state organi-
zations and local chairmen and workers in plan-
ning programs. The keynote is announced in the
committee’s Letter of Suggestions, together with
a few general ideas to make the observance helpful
to groups and individuals who wish to use it for
their year-round work.

The Letter lists the various types of organiza—
tions most frequently represented and the kind of
program they are, most apt to arrange. The groups
include schools, churches, libraries, service clubs,
recreation departments, music clubs, woman’s
clubs, D.A.R., Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., and a num-
ber of civic, fraternal and youth clubs, like the
American Legion Auxiliary, the Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.

Many of these clubs are showing more resource-
fulness each year in making the most advantageous
use of the observance to demonstrate their progress
in music or the way they are using music in their
general program.

There is an increasing tendency toward the or-
ganization of the local observance by several
groups acting together and forming a joint Com—
munity Committee. This is in line with one of the
main purposes of the observance—to serve as a
harmonizing factor in the life of the people and is
a tendency the Central Committee is encouraging
wherever conditions are favorable.

RECREATION

THE DR. JOHN H. FINLEY GAVEL 303

   

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 
   

 

  

MAGAZINES

The Crippled Child, June 1943 .
Red Cross Recreation in Military Hospitals, by
Jeanne Holmes

The Kansas Parent-Teacher, March 1943

An Attitude and a Reality in Community Recreation,
by Dr. Forrest C. Allen, Director of Physical

Education, University of Kansas

Musical America, June 1943
Community Opera Flourishes Over Nation

Parents’ llIagazine, July 1943

Forestalling Delinquency, 'by Mary Alice Kendrick
Take the Family Sketching, by Helen S. Neal

Parks and Recreation, May—June, 1943

Leisure Time into Production, from an impromptu
talk by L. H. Weir

The Physical Educator, June 1943

An Easy, Efficient and Rapid Method of Teaching

Beginners to Swim, by Alvin Romeiser
Rhythmics in the Junior High School Program, by
Gwendolene Spencer

Scouting, July 1943

The Hows of Hiking, by Wes H. Klusmann, Fred C.
Miller, Earle C. McKinstry, Ernest F. Schmidt,
Charles F. Smith

Why Watch Birds? by T. S. Pettit

The W omans Press, July-August, 1943
Where They Hang Out

PAMPHLETS
Community Action for Children in Wartime—Pub. 295.
U. S. Department of Labor, Children’s Bureau

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S.
Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
Price 5 cents

Fitness and Recreation. Pregram suggestions for local
and county 4-H events

University of Minnesota, Agricultural Extension
Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture

Handbook for All Playground Leaders to Provide for "A
Safe Playground for Every Child.”

Watertown Recreation Department, 203 North
Hamilton Street, Watertown, N. Y.

National Resources Development Report for 1943.

Part I—Post-War Plan and Program.
National Resources Planning Board

Playground Administration Manual.
Recreation Department, Akron, Ohio

Public Recreation in New Hampshire. A plan for the
deveIOpment of public recreation areas.

Prepared by the State Planning and Development
Commission, 1943. Price $1.00

Publicity for Informal Study Groups.

Compiled and presented by George Radcliffe, Execu-
tive Director, Community Chest and Council, 280
North Broad Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

AUGUST 1943

  
  

The Dr. John H. Finley Gavel

RS. JOHN H. FINLEY has presented to the Na-
M tional Recreation Association the gavel which
was given to her husband at the time of the Rec-
reation Congress in Boston, Massachusetts, in

October, 1939.

This gavel had been carved by Ernest Hermann
from maple and ash which came from trees on the
estate of Joseph Lee’s grandmother in Brookline,
Massachusetts. Here Joseph Lee played as a boy
and here he lived for ten years as a young student.
Joseph Lee knew well the trees from which this

wood came.

Mrs. John H, Finley recalled how very happy
Dr. Finley had been about the Boston Recreation
Congress, how enthusiastic he had been as he came
home from the various Board meetings, how much
he liked the words “play” and “playground.” Dr.
Finley did not have a great deal of play himself
when he was a boy. His mother died when he was
twelve years of age, but he had a very beautiful
memory of his mother. He had learned much of
the Old Testament words and stories from her.
He felt that he knew as much when he was twelve
years old about the Bible stories as he ever did
later. Dr, Finley always had a great feeling for
the outdoors. As a boy he walked eight miles
from his home to the Ottawa, Illinois, High School.
This meant sixteen miles of walking. Of course he
did not come home every night, but he did return
much of the time. Later he started walking around
Princeton, New Jersey. He followed the course of
George Washington’s armymmaneuvers. He used
to walk from his home in New York City to
Princeton, and he once a year used to walk around
Manhattan Island. Once when he had had a long
tramp Mrs, Finley asked him, “Aren’t your legs
tired?” He replied, “No more tired than my arms.”

Once when a new president was to be installed
at Dartmouth College, Dr. Finley walked seventy-
one miles to Hanover. Some of the walking was
very bad over the mountains. He started at one
o’clock in the m0rning and arrived at nine o’clock
in the evening taking nineteen hours to walk
seventy-one miles. The innkeeper had some doubt
about giving him a room when he arrived. He did
fall asleep in the bathtub.

Mrs. Finley told of the very great pleasure her
husband had always had in the National Recrea-
tion Association during the twenty-seven years he
had served as a member of the Board of Directors,

304 JUVENILE ANGLERS

0 NEW BOOKS °
By PORTER SARGENT

“WAR AND EDUCATION,” 512 pp., black vellum,
$4.00, attempts to appraise education as it has
been, is, and might 'be—to explain how the
abstractions “war” and “education” cover a mul-
titude of sins—and how our present systems of

education make possible our present systems of
wars.

Critics comment—“A stimulating challenge”—
“A massively documented history”——“A bold but
wise critique”—“A brilliant and dynamic book.”

“A HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS,” 1024 pp.,
red sill: cloth, 56.00, 27th ed., reviews the educa-
tional thought, activities and changes of the year
and brings Hp-to-date listings and critical descrip-
tions of over 3,000 schools.

Circulars, Table of Contents and Sample Page:
of above and Announcements of Forthcoming
Publications on Request

PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street, Boston

 

the fifteen years he had served as Vice-President,
and the three years he had served as President.
Otto T. Mallery in behalf of the Board of Di-
rectors and the members of the Association and
the friends of the Association throughout the
country accepted the gavel and recalled the great
gift Dr. Finley had had at the annual Recreation
Congress gatherings in uniting all the people as

one family and in making all present so happy to
work together.

Don't Ration Fun !

(Continued from page 261)

these fruit juices can be pooled together to make
an interesting and delicious punch.

Fresh fruit sherbet can be made easily and eco-
nomically and your guests won’t mind relinquish-
ing six of their precious ration coupons to obtain
a heaping portion. Little raisin cookies made in
the shape of ration stamps can supplement the
sherbet. Another refreshing offering is jello—Only
four points for any of the different flavors.

Or you may suggest to your guests that they
bring their own sandwiches, and you will provide
the drinks and desserts. In this case an added
note on the bottom Of the ration book invitation

Juvenile Anglers

IN DEMING PARK, Terre Haute, Indiana, which
is primarily a picnic park, there are six ponds,
five of which in the upper let‘rels of the park are
used by the Izaak Walton League as rearing

_ ponds. The overflow frorhs these five ponds finds

its way to the sixth pond, known as the duck pond,
and during heavy rains a great many of the fish
are deposited in this pond. With 30 many fish to
be caught, the Park Department decided last April
to have a fishing carnival for school children, boys
and girls under twelve years of age. Each child
secured from his teacher a fishing license in the
form Of a tag certifying his age. Approximately
4,000 Of these licenses were issued, and better than
75 per cent of them were used during the four
days of fishing.

It had been planned on the fourth day, from one
to five O’clock, to hold a grand finale with a pro-
gram of band music, clown stunts, and the award-
ing of prizes to the boys and girls who proved the
best fishermen and showed the best sportsmanship.
However, rain during the day cut the attendance
and there was very little fishing. In order to
avoid disappointing the children who came in Spite
of the bad weather, an Easter egg hunt was sub-
stituted. Twenty-four eggs, each bearing a num—
ber, were hidden by the committee in charge. Ap-
proximately 200 children took part in the hunt,
and the number on the eggs indicated the prize to
be received, with only one prize for each par-
ticipant.

The children were very enthusiastic about the
fishing, and even the township and county schools
requested licenses and details about the contest.
Another fishing event has been planned for June,
when the event will be sponsored by the Flora
Gulick Boys Club, Izaak Walton League, Ameri—
can Legion, and the Lions Club.

 

can say, “Shortage: a healthy, wholesome, and
edible sandwich. Please bring same and present
as ration coupon No. I at our Ration Party.” The
hostess should collect all the sandwiches at the
door and then offer them at refreshment time.

On one table, all the plates, napkins, and silver-
ware can be laid out with a sign saying, “These
articles are not rationed.”

As the guests are leaving for the evening, the
hostess may present each with a vegetable or fruit
from the victory garden—just to have an appro-
priate ending for your patriotic Ration Party!

RECREATION

ROCHESTER’S WATER SAFETY PROGRAM 305

Use of National Parks Curtailed

in Wartime

HAROLD L. ICKES, Secretary of the Interior,.has
usually been encouraging the use of the na-
tional parks. This year he writes as follows:

“In connection with the contemplated holi-
day plans of several millions of vacationists this
summer, I find myself officially constrained to
request them to avoid visiting the National

' t’arks unless they are lucky enough to live in
\JOSC proximity to one of them.

‘It is more than an anomaly for a Secretary
of the Interior, who also numbers among his
most pleasant responsibilities the trusteeship
of the National Park System, to be forced by
circumstances to take this position. It is news
of the same type as ‘man bites dog,’ and an
equally unpleasant job.

“But, as Petroleum Administrator for War,
I am in daily touch with the vital and urgent
need for conservation of petroleum and
petroleum products of all kinds, including gas-
oline, and I therefore find myself (as Petroleum
Administrator) telling myself (as Secretary of
the Interior) that this summer definitely is no
time for pleasure-driving through our great
parks.”

l’r's Being Done in Na’rure Recrea’rion
(Continued from page 294)

planning to survey natural resources as well as
physical, civic, and social.

“Science, Fun with,” by Mae and Ira Freeman.
Random House, New York City. 60 pp. $1.00.
Entertaining experiments for youngsters.

' “Trees for Tomorrow and America’s Forests”
is a booklet given free by American Forest

Products Industries, Inc., 1319 Eighteenth Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

Recreation in .a Democracy a’r War

( C ontimred from page 255)
saw slipping away from us—the glistening dew on

the meadow, the majesty of the mountain and the
expanse of the plain, the ruggedness of the oak
and the grace of the birch, the beauty of a sym-
phony and the trickle of the brook. These are the
things which make America worth fighting for and
worth living for.

AUGUST 1943

Rochester's Water Safety
Program

It 0 MAKE EVERY BOY, girl and adult a swimmer
Tcapable of saving his own life and the lives of
others in time of accidents, and of enjoying swim-
ming as a recreation without subjecting himself to
needless danger” is the purpose of the water safety
program conducted by the city of Rochester, New
York, in connection with its pools and beaches.
Initiated in 1938, the prOgram is still in opera-
tion, and each summer over a seven weeks’ period,
classes are conducted daily except Sunday at pools
and beaches. N on-swimmer classes begin at 10:00
A. M. and continue until 12:30 P. M. Upon com-
pletion of the standard beginner’s water test of the
American Red Cross, the pupil advances to the
intermediate group which also meets daily at the
same time. When the pupil has completed this
course successfully he enters the swimmer’s class.
Teaching swimmers to save others as well as
themselves is the aim of life saving courses con-
ducted daily at the pools and beaches from 11 :00
A. M. to I :00 P. M. Special advance classes for a
selected group of expert swimmers are also held
daily. An interesting feature of the program is the
opportunity extended to adults who heretofore
have not had the privilege of learning to swim.

These individuals constitute what is known as the
“Lost Chance School.”

No Increase in Personnel

The water safety classes are conducted by the
lifeguards of the city of Rochester without any in-
crease in personnel. Ninety per cent of the staff
are water safety instructors certified by the Ameri—
can Red Cross ; thus they have been trained to use
the most modern teaching methods. The entire
corps of instructors are either graduates or under-
graduate students in leading colleges and universi-
ties throughout the country and have been selected
because of their training, education, and character.

The sole requirement for admission to the swim-
ming and lifesaving classes is possession of a
coupon from either the Rochester Times-Union or
Democrat and Chronicle newspapers, This coupon,
which appears daily in the morning and evening
papers throughout the period of the campaign,
must be signed by a parent. The newspapers have
played an important part in the promotion of the
campaign through the extensive publicity given in
both the daily and Sunday papers. The Gannett _

306 “ALLIED NATIONS PLA YGROUNDS”

newspapers provide the funds for purchasing the
certificates and seals presented to those success-
fully passing the standard American Red Cross
water tests.

Promoters of the campaign are also indebted to
Radio Station WHEC for its part in helping to
build up effective publicity. Each Tuesday last
summer a series of talks was given by the director
and captains of lifeguards on the subject of water
safety. A total of 660 minutes has been contributed
by the station.

The contribution of the Rochester Transit Cor-
poration has also been an important one. For sev—
eral weeks during last summer’s campaign the
Corporation printed on its weekly bus passes an
advertisement presenting some phase of the pro-
gram. Since from 50,000 to 60,000 of these passes
were issued weekly, the publicity reached many
persons.

The Safety Council of the Rochester Chamber
of Commerce has officially approved the water
safety program, and a statement of this approval
appears on the certificates awarded those passing
the tests. The certificates awarded mean much not
only to the children who receive them but to their
parents.

Spool Weaving
( Continued from page 293)

can make one from a curtain pole—see illustration
on page 293), there are‘a number of interesting
projects to be made with a heavier thread. For
instance, candle wicking weaves very well and is
heavy enough to make table mats for hot dishes.
It is on sale at many of the ten-cent stores and the
colors are soft and pleasing. One skein will make
one or two mats, depending on the size. The oval
shape is the simplest to make.

Yarn such as the hand knitting worsted or the
rayon mix which is sold by the stores today is also
a good material for spool weaving. The yarn will
stretch somewhat so that the loops will slip over
the nails more easily. The yarn strands are very
soft so that they are used mostly for covering a
foundation of some kind. For instance, the woven
strands can be used for covering the tops of bed-
room slippers by sewing them back and forth or
around and around to a piece of felt or whatever
the material which forms the top of the slipper is
made from. In like manner, they can be used for
covering purses, backs of mittens, or other arti-
cles of clothing.

"Allied Nations Playgrounds"

THIS SUMMER the playgrounds of Watertown,
New York, are carrying on a program de—
signed to bring the children in closer touch with
children of the allied countries. There are nine
playground in Watertown, each of which repre-
sents one of the Allied Nations—Russia, China,
Holland, Greece, Mexico, Ireland, Norway, Phil-
lipine Islands, and the United States. During the
first week of the season the children at each of the
playgrounds voted on the country they wished to
represent. Collectively the playgrounds are known
as the “Allied Nations Playgrounds.”

Each area studies the customs, songs, native
dress, dances, and handcraft of its adopted coun—
try. The theme is carried out as far as possible
throughout the playground activities and on the
bulletin boards, which are changed weekly.

The one big opportunity to show what they
have studied was offered by the interplayground
Mardi Gras parade held the second week of July.
A queen was crowned who was dressed in the
native costume of the chosen country. There was
one entrant from each ground. Everything about
the parade—floats, costumes, colors, and decora-
tions—was in keeping with the selected countries.
Judges made the decision as to which playground
best represented its country.

As nearly as possible the same theme will per-
meate all activities throughout the summer season
in a small pageant, a large interplayground circus,
and a final jamboree. '

A Far Country

(Continued from page 286)

father’s farm. The evening sun was just sinking
behind the hill, and I saw a man standing on the
crest right in the center of the sun—a picture I
shall never forget.

I knew it was my father waiting and watching
for me. When I looked once more, the figure had
disappeared. I never read the parable of the prodi-
gal son without thinking of this scene. I had not
been the prodigal son, but I had received money
from my father and had gone to what seemed to a
boy of those days to be a far country. A father’s
love and concern for his son away from home has
ever since gripped my heart and thought. My
father standing on that highest hill on the horizon
in the center of the declining evening sun watch-
ing and waiting for me——I shall never forget.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Modern Encyclopedia of Checkers

By William (Willie) F. Ryan. Available from the author
at Inwood Station, New York. $5.00

THE THOUSANDS Of people who are making a hdbby
and study Of the world’s oldest intellectual game will

welcome this “analytical cavalcade of scientific checker

play.” Mr. Ryan, who has written the book, is present

checker champion of America and was formerly champion

of the world at blindfold play.

I2 Dances of Merrie England

For Piano Duet. Arranged by Dorothy Connor. Theo-
dore Presser Company, 1712 Chestnut Street, Phila-
delphia. $.75.

AMONG THE DANCES for which music is given are The

Alderman’s Hat, Mowing the Barley, Prince Rupert’s

March, Shepherds’ Hey, and The Spaniard. The music

is as lively and the dances as gay as in the days of

Merrie England.

Sports Photography

BE 21.5%: Wulf‘f. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

N THIS NEW BOOK Mr. Wulff, author of a number of

books on sports and outdoor life, outlines general pro-
cedures to be used in securing exceptional pictures. The
book presents the essentials of the theory and practice of
taking good pictures and is of equal value both to be-
ginner and expert. The text is illustrated by 109 attrac-
tive sports photographs in all fields, and included with
each picture is technical data relating to each photograph.

Mathematical Recreation

B'y Maurice Kraitchik. W. W. Norton and Company.
Inc., New York. $3.75.

IF YOU LIKE MATHEMATICS you will enjoy these puzzles.

Many of them are little known, and some have been
published in English for the first time. Problems range
in degree of difficulty from those which may be solved by
a boy or girl interested in arithmetic to examples which
will test the knowledge of trained mathematicians.

Health Facts for College Students

By Maude Lee Etheredge, M.D., Dr. P.H. W. B. Saun-
ders Company, Philadelphia. $2.25.
THIS TEXTBOOK is designed to help the student derive
the utmost in personal deveIOpment, both physical and
mental. The fourth edition of Dr. Etheredge’s book
contains much new material which applies directly to the
health needs of the present emergency. A chapter on
“Work, Leisure and Play" is included in which the im-
portance of hobbies and play is stressed.

AUGUST 1943

Rifle Marksmanship

By William L. Stephens, Jr. Barnes Dollar Sports
Library. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.
HERE IS A BOOK for everyone who wants to know how
to shoot and how to become an expert marksman.
Members of school and college rifle teams in particular
will find it a practica'l guide.

Elements of Healthful Living

By Harold S. Diehl, M.A. MCGraW-Hill Book Com-
pany, Inc., New York. $1.75.

IN TIMES OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY there is especially

keen appreciation of the fact that good health is neces-
sary for national welfare. In this book Dr. Diehl analyzes
the elements which make up physical ntness and health—
ful living and discusses them not only from the stand—
point Of the individual, but of the community as a whole.

Tree in the Trail

Written and illustrated by Holling Clancy Holling.
Houghton Mifiiin Company, Boston. $2.50.

Am WHO LOVE TREES and the traditions of our country
Which are tied up with them will find this book, with
its beautiful colored illustrations, a fascinating one. Mr.
Holling gives us the story Of a cottonwood tree which
began to grow in 1610 and was conquered by wind and
lightning in the year 1834. In its long lifetime it saw the
growth of the Santa Fe Trail and became a peace-
medicine tree to the Indians and a landmark to other
travelers.

Seven Songs of the Early Republic

Edited by Richard Franko Goldman. New settings by
Carl Buchman. Mercury Music Corporation, 235 West
40th Street, New York. $.50 each.

IT WILL COME as a surprise to many peOple that in the

early days of this country, as far back as 1790, we
had some excellent stirring songs well worth getting
acquainted with. The four songs which have thus far
appeared in this series are: Brother Soldiers, All Hail];
America, C ommerce and Freedom; Jeferson and Liberty;
The Green Mountain Farmer.

Child Man power— I 943

By Gertrude Folks Zimand. Publication No. 389. Na-
tional Child Labor Committee, 419 Fourth Avenue,
New York. $.10.

AN IMPORTANT and timely consideration of the impact
of the war on child labor will be found in this
pamphlet. Such projects as war work for older boys
and girls, and school age children in wartime agriculture
are discussed and problems are presented. There is also
a discussion Of relaxations—wise and unwise.

307

308 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

An Introduction to Group Therapy.

By S. R. Slavson. The Commonwealth Fund, New
York. $2.00.

Group therapy has been used since 1934 by the Jewish
Board of Guardians in New York City. This book is
based upon detailed records of some 750 children and 55
groups each of which functioned for about two years.
Follow-up studies were made to discover how successful
had been the adjustment made by the children in home,
school, unorganized play group, and organized recrea-
tional activities. The book suggests when, with whom,
for what purposes, and how group therapy may be used.
Workers dealing with problem children will find much
of interest in this volume.

Living and Learning in Small Rural Schools.

State Department of Education, Division of Ele-
mentary Schools, Nashville, Tennessee. $.50.

This booklet represents a genuine contribution to the
literature on rural life, for although designed primarily
to "be used by teachers in small rural schools, it recognizes
clearly the interdependence of school and community,
and the school’s function as a community center. There
are many suggestions for playground equipment and play
activities at the school.

Chess.

By Kenneth M. Grover and Thomas Wiswell. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $1.00.

Chess was played in one form or another over five
thousand years ago, state the authors of this book, who
predict that it will Hourish for at least another fifty
centuries.

In their book Mr. Grover and Mr. Wiswell give us a
pOpularly written description of the game which will
enable the reader to understand it. They also give the ac«-
complis‘hed player suggestions on how to improve his
game. By the use of large, clear diagrams the complexi-
ties of the game are reduced to a minimum.

American Youth Hostels Handbook 1943.

American Youth Hostels, Inc., Northfield, Massa-
chusetts. $.50.

The 1943 Handbook of the A.Y.H. makes fascinating
reading for the manderer or the :bicycler on the open
road. Part 1 discusses where to hostel and Part 2 how
to ‘hostel. V. K. Brown of the Chicago Park District,
who is president of the Great Lakes Region, A.Y.H., has
written an introduction under the title “Wanderings,”
which sounds the keynote.

Exhibits— How to Plan and Make Them.

National Publicity Council, 130 East 22nd Street,
New York. 

For all who plan to use this form of publicity, Exhibits
——-How to. Plan and Make Them offers a wealth of in-
formation and ideas. Written for the novice, it starts
from scratch by setting up guideposts to successful ex—
hibit planning. It suggests suitable materials for differ-
ent types of exhibits, reports adaptable and attractive
exhibit ideas, and outlines the fundamentals of design.
Five authors well qualified to discuss such a project have
contributed separate sections.

Swimming Pool Data and Reference Annual—1943.

Bernard Sachs, Editor. Hoffman—Harris, Inc., 425
Fourth Avenue, New York. $3.00.

This is a war edition of the Reference Annual and an
especially practical one. It mirrors the extent to which
swimming facilities and programs have been geared to
the war effort and makes some predictions as to what
may happen in postwar days. This edition also contains
the most comprehensive swimming pool standards and
recommended practices ever presented in such a volume.

They combine the suggestions of state departments of
health and the report of the Joint Committee on Bathing
Places of the Conference of State Sanitary Engineers
and the American Public Health Association.

Stories Children Like; Games Children Like;
Songs Children Like.

Association for Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. Each, $.20.

These three bulletins should be in the hands of every
play leader: Stories Children Like, edited by Agnes L.
Adams. All the stories in this bulletin, with the excep-
tion of one, are original and have never before appeared
in printed form. Games Children Like, compiled by
Mamie W. Heinz. These games are of interest to chil-
dren from four to eight years of age. Songs Children
Like, collected by Helen Christianson. This collection of
songs functions. with reference to the play interests of
the children rather than as songs set apart for a par-
ticular music period.

Official Aquatic Guide 1943-1944.

Edited by Virginia Lee Horne. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $.35.

The current Official Aquatic Guide, with its emphasis
on wartime swimming, is a particularly practical and
useful issue. In addition to OfEcial Rules, there are
Teaching Aids, a section on Canoein-g, another on Medical
Notes, and Directories of Research, Specialists, Bibli-
ography and Past Guides. There is also a section on
Aquatic Standards, Oflicials’ Ratings, and Results of the
1942 Telegraph Meet.

Let’s Make More Things.

By Harry Zarchy. Alfred A. Knopf, New YOrK.
$1.75.

This is a wartime EbOOk, and only such materials as are
easily available as well as inexpensive are suggested for
use in making the articles described.

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. W’lINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary Of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. W'ILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRs. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

ROBERT LASSITER, Charlotte, N. C.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston. Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
MRS. JAMES W. WtADSWORTH, \Vashington,, D. C.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. W'ARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C. °

RECREATION

