Thanksgivingf—l863 and I943

“  year that is drawing to a close has been filled with the

blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies. . . . Needful
diversions of wealth and of strength from the fields of peaceful
industry to the national defense have not arrested the plow, the
shuttle, or the ship; the ax has enlarged the borders of our set-
tlements, and the mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious
metals, have yielded even more abundantly than heretofore.
Population has steadily increased, notwithstanding the waste that
has been made in the camp, the siege, and the battle-field, and the
country, rejoicing in the consciousness of augmented strength and

vigor, is permitted to expect continuance of years with large
increase of freedom.

“No human counsel hath devised, nor hath any mortal hand
worked out these great things. They are the gracious gifts of the
most high God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins,
hath nevertheless remembered mercy. a

“It has seemed "to me fit and proper that they should be
solemnly, reverently, and gratefully acknowledged as with one
heart and one voice by the whole American people. I do, there-
fore, invite my fellow-citizens in every part of the United States,
and also those who are at sea and those Who are sojourning in
foreign lands, to set apart and observe the last Thursday of
November next as a day of thanksgiving and praise to our benefi-
cent Father who dwelleth in the heavens. And I recommend to
them that, while offering up the ascriptions justly due to Him for
such singular deliverances and blessings, they do also, with humble
penitence for our national perverseness and disobedience, com-
mend to His tender care all those who have become widows,
orphans, mourners, or sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in
which we are unavoidably engaged, and fervently implore the
interposition of the Almighty hand to heal the wounds of the
nation, and to restore it, as soon as may be consistent With the
Divine purposes, to the full enjoyment of peace, harmony, tran-

quility, and union.” — Abraham Lincoln in his presidential
Thanksgiving Proclamation, October 3, 1863.

Keepers of the American Tradition

RECREATION LEADERS need to face, each one for himself, what is
included in the American tradition of values in living.

Always there has been emphasis on independence because of the
pioneer nature of early life in America. Much has centered about the
church, and later about the schoolhouse. From early times there have
been the public commons in a great many communities. Much of
recreation tradition has centered about work competitions in wood
chopping, plowing, and various work activities have grown natur-
ally out of the surroundings.

There has been an element of democracy in that emphasis has
been upon ability to do rather than upon the possession of goods
or upon the family_to which one belongs. The ability to plow a
straight furrow, to knock out a home run, to swim a long distance,
has counted, whatever the origin of the individual.

Each community has its own traditions which have been passed
on in some sections of the country for many years. It is important
that each recreation worker should make an effort to learn these
traditions, to interpret them, to help build upon them. Much can be
done in preserving an interest in the historical background of each
community. What are the places where important events have taken
place in the history of the place or the nature? Where are the geo-
logical formations that have particular interest, indicating what
happened thousands of years ago? What are the special trees and
flowers and shrubs that belong to the particular locality?

All the festival days of the years, particularly Christmas, are
used by the community recreation centers to “preserve the treasures
of the spirit which we hold in trust for the benefit of the generations
to come.” Recreation leaders think not only of what takes place at
the center but of what is carried back into the home, of what will
keep the life of the individual strong and richly. deeply satisfying.

Perhaps more than any other group, the recreation leaders have
it within their power to be the keepers .and builders of tradition in
their communities.

 

DECEMBER I943

 

477

December

 

Wu! ran Photo-pap h

Courtesy Recreation Department, San Francisco, California

47 8 RECREATION

Christmas at Home

By AUGUSTUS D. ZANZIG I-..
National Recreation Association

 

This ar’ricleI used by courtesy of the
Bureau of Public School“ Extracurricular
Activities, Division of Ex’rension. Uni-
versify of TexasI has been taken from a

booklet entitled Sing We All Noel, con-
taining Christmas and Twelfth Night sug-

gestions for home, school. church. rec-
reation cen’rer. clubI and communi’ry.

N ESPECIALLY fortunate thing about carols is
A that many of them are suited to all ages
from infancy to old age. The love of the
Child, and the wonder, gaiety and good-will are as
native to young children as to the most mature
adult. Indeed, we older people look to the com-
pany of children at Christmas time to renew these
feelings in us. It is then also, even where there
are no children, that everyone who sings or hears
a real carol and sees a Christmas tree must have
intimations again of the Kingdom which, to enter,
he must become “as a little child.” And the tunes
of niany carols are likewise as well suited to sing-
ing by the very young as by?" the mature. So it
would be loss of the best opportunity in the year
if parents and children did not sing carols together.
If the parents feel incompetent in starting or
carrying a song, let the children—if they have
learned at school—be the leaders. Or invite one
or more neighbors, or let the children invite one
.or more of their singing friends, to come and sing
and perhaps liave some simple, refreshments to—
gether and maybe some suitable games also. If an
army or navy training center is near, there may
be among the soldiers or sailors required to stay
on duty and away from home a number who would
like very much to be guests for an evening or a
Sunday. or holiday afternoon and sing or play
carols. Put a lighted candle in the window on
Christmas Eve, so that any group of carolers going
along that street will stop at the house and be
invited in to sing with the family. Once such a
singing is happily done, the members of the family
will wish to do more of it by themselves.

DECEMBER 1943

If there is no piano or no one to play one, a
guitar or a psaltery such as children learn to play
will do very well, perhaps better than a piano. A
violin or Hute, or the simpler flute of Elizabethan
times now being revived and called a “recorder,”
can be charmingly appropriate. Even more appro-
priate is a well-made and well-played shepherd
pipe, the simplest Hute of all, usually made nowa-
days of bamboo—a pipe such as the shepherds at
Bethlehem must have played. The making of such
a pipe is itself a very engaging activity, especially
when it is done in the company of one or more
other persons who are also providing themselves
with such a really musical instrument.

A “piping party” can be a very enjoyable home
event. The pipes can be made of different sizes, of
soprano, alto, tenor and even of bass, to make the
corresponding part—playing possible. It is possi-
ble and delightful, of course, to have part-playing
even with two or more of these instruments of the
same size or with any two or three different sizes,
except soprano and bass alone, these being too far
apart in range. We were thinking, however, of
how lovely and helpful in the singing even one can
be. (The National Recreation Association at 3I5
Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y., has pub—
lished a booklet, H ow to Make and Play a Shep-
herd Pipe, which gives full directions and some
real music to play. It costs 35 cents.)

We should mention the accordian and the mod-
est harmonica, ocarina, tonette, and Hageolet also,
the last three named being also Hute-like in char-
acter, though not so lovely as the other ones we
have mentioned can be.

But the singing can be very enjoyable without
any instrument at all. Most important is it to re-
member the true nature of a real carol, how spon-
taneous and simple it is, how transparently sincere
and as clean and fresh as a bright May morning in
the country, and play and sing it so.

One of the best of all carol collections, especially
welcome where there are children, costs only ten
cents. It is entitled Christmas Carols, is delight-

«fully illustrated, and was compiled by Mary Nancy

Graham published by the Whitman Publishing
Company of Racine, Wisconsin, and it is obtain-
able at five and ten cent stores. Its “I Saw Three
Ships,” “Away in a Manger,” “Bring a Torch,
Jeanette, Isabella,” “What Child Is This ?” and

479 A

CHRISTMAS AT HOME

480

n
o.
h
IN
a
c
1
Ne
R
0
B 1.
OJ
5 .m
I. u“
vJ .d
A n
D a
0 1d.
T mm
.. loruJoh
DD“ .MOPW
O Shea
L..__. 3.3
moJ“n
E mar
o
H dumb
T ..q.,h.ms
J 0 In...
T \uanJT
S um.
I. Wo.r
Du rhh
H FTC
C
‘0
2
0..
A

 

“fun: and prose translation from Edward Micek at the University of Texas

Cepyright 1943 by the National Recreation Association. Inc.

RECREATION

CHRISTMAS AT HOME 481

the beautiful simple chorale
by Bach are as rightful and
happy 3 heritage of every
child as are fresh air and
sunshine. And all the other
carols in this book, several
of them generally familiar,
are also gifts for the whole
family.

The school music teacher
and the grade teachers who
teach music would doubtless be glad to collaborate
with parents wishing to have carol singing in their
homes. They could help by having parent-teacher
associations and the school children learn and sing
the same carols. Children of the upper elementary
grades, and sopranos in the secondary schools,
. could be taught descants to familiar carols. A
descant, which is a distinct melody added above
the familiar tune, can make the home singing still
more engaging for everyone. It is almost equally
enjoyable if it is played on a violin, flute, recorder
or shepherd pipe. Among the carol collections
mentioned in this article are some with descants.
The school authorities might be glad to have the
parents, or at least the mothers, come to caroling
assemblies or even in small numbers to the regu-
lar classroom music sessions and join with their
children there in the singing.

The private music teachers could help and in—
cidentally bring still more vitality to the musical
life of their pupils by teaching them to play carols
or accompaniments to them at Christmas time. An

excellent carol collection for the modest pianist is
the Diller-Page Carol Book published by G. Schir-

6

DECEMBER 1943

The National Recreation Association has
issued a Christmas Carol sheet containing

the words of ten favorite carols including
"Silent Night." "0 Little Town of Beth-

lehem." "Deck the Hall." "God Rest You
Merry, Gentlemen." and "The First Nowell."
These sheets may be obtained at 80 cents
per hundred. Also available from the
Association is The Christmas Book with
its suggestions for caroling and other ways
of celebrating Christmas —— 50 cents.

mer, Inc., New York, at
75 cents a c0py. Its selec-
tion of carols is very fortu-
nate and its piano accom-
paniments, though simple,
are very musical.

Surely there is motive
enough for one or both of
the parents themselves to
learn to play or to refur-
bish past skills in playing.
Most carols are so easy to learn to play. We
should remember the custom of the Elizabethan
composers of delightful home-music known as
madrigals, of writing on the covers, “apt for voices
or viols.” If you could not sing, or needed an-
other vocal part but had no one capable of its
vocal range, the part might be played instead.
Even when their daughters were quite young, a
certain modern couple could be overheard at home
early on Christmas mornings joining with them in
complete and convincing performance of the beau—
tiful four-part Christmas chorale of Bach, “Break
Forth, O Beauteous Heavenly Light,” the parents
singing the soprano and the tenor parts, the vio-
lin-playing daughter the alto, and the ’cello-player
the bass.

Even if lacking every sort of ability or aid men-
tioned so far, there is still another resource open
to everyone Who can afford its not great cost. The
phonograph record catalogs of the R. C. A. Victor
Company, the Columbia Recording Corporation
and the Decca Company list many recordings of

Christmas carols, many of which are so presented
(Continued on page 527)

f.

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

A Christmas Party that Re-Creates

By RACHEL DAVIS-Do B013

 

Courtesy Intercultural Education Workshop

ten years younger.” “My friend had been

melancholy for weeks; after the Festival he
.sang all the way home.” “I feel differently now
about people—all people.” “This shows us what
recreation can really mean.”

Because of the growing tensions among our peo—
ple of various racial, religious and cultural back-
grounds, and of the physical weariness due to war
work, leaders in the recreational field are happy
when they find a pattern for an evening’s enter—
tairiment that is fun plus. They recognize that
-there is need for simple ways of bringing together
our neighbors of many cultural backgrounds (and
almost every community in American life is heter—
ogeneous)-—not only for fun and inspiration but
also for immunizing us all against the germ of
prejudice. A Neighborhood—Home Festival such
as has been worked out by the Intercultural Edu-
cation Workshop group in various eastern com-
munities is such a way of combining the need for
fun and relaxation, for deve10ping intergroup ap-
preciations, and for providing a kind of spiritual
lift.

The party is simple and spontaneous—it needs
only the kind of a hostess who can lead an after-
dinner conversation, assisted by one who can draw
well-known songs from a group and another who
can coax people into simple folk dancing. Some-
times this is combined in the same person. The
group conversation often starts with the simple
but appealing theme: “Let’s introduce ourselves as

H I HAVE NEVER SPENT a happier evening.” “I feel

482

we were when. we were ten".years old and tell what
we had most fun in doing at this season of the
year.” Such conversation shows a mixed group of
people how interesting our cultural diversity is
and yet how basically one we all are. For example,
all peoples celebrate something akin to our harvest
feast at Thanksgiving, to the festival of the winter
solstice which we celebrate at Christmas, to our
spring or Easter festival, and to the midsummer
holiday which is our Fourth of July.

To show how the spontaneous conversation goes,
we report a \Vinter Home Festival which took
place last year in an industrial city of a mixed
population. Similar conversations, or Home Fes—
tivals, have been conducted in over a hundred
groups in many kinds of communities (rural, small-
town, and city) during the past three years by our
group.

Church groups, whose 1943 topic for Home-
Mission study groups is “The Church and Ameri-
ca’s People,” are using the Home—Festival method
because it gives them a natural, legitimate reason
for inviting in some of their Jewish neighbors to
describe something of the Hebrew seasonal festi-
vals. Interracial groups find in it a much faster,
and more natural and less mores—shattering way
of breaking the ice than the usual interracial tea.
Interfaith groups are finding in it a fascinating
way of appreciating differences and recognizing
similarities in church and synagogue customs.

Those concerned about the guidance of youth

..—.._. —'~

find in the sharing of cultural backgrounds a means
of giving that necessary sense of worth in what the

 

Dr. Rachel Davis-DuBois. director of the Inter-
cultural Education Workshop. 204 E. l8th Street.
New York City. has done valuable work in schools
and with community groups over a period of years.
in an effort to discover the best methods of de-
veloping more understanding attitudes among
America's culture groups. "The American Home
Festival." one of the latest experiments. brings
people of differing racial backgrounds together to
explore and share in universal season customs and
folklore for the purpose of reducing prejudice
and helping to build a richer American culture.

 

RECREATION

individual is, and all see in it
an effective means of over-
coming prejudice in face-to-
face contacts so necessary if
we are to develop a sense of
national unity.

A member of one of the groups reports the
natural flow of their conversation around the win—
ter theme:

“We sat in a compact circle, about forty of us,
adults of various ages, econoniic and cultural and
religious backgrounds. Several of us sat on the
floor. The mantel was covered with greens in the
midst of which stood two tall, red candles. On one
corner was a little creche brought by an Irish
Catholic member of the group. On a table in front
of the fireplace were the Hebrew Menorah candles.

After the suggestion, “Let’s introduce ourselves
by telling where we were and what we liked most
to do at this season of the year when'we were ten
years old,” the memories came fast: “I grew up
on a farm in New England.
Because of my Puritan back-
ground, such ‘fairy tales’ as
Santa Claus were not stressed.
However, after learning about

 

DECEMBER 1943

A practical workbook for local leaders.
prepared by Dr. DuBois. has recently
been published by Harper and Brothers.
New York City. under the title. "Get

Together émericans."

Conversation begins in this group rep-
resenting a number of countries. and
memories come fast as each introduces
himself at the age of ten and gives his
recollections of this

A CHRISTMAS PARTY THAT RE-CREATES 483

it in school I tried to make my
younger brothers and sisters
believe in the story. I suc-
ceeded too, for one of them
called Santa on the phone.”

“We used to make all the
trimmings for our trees. \Ve hung paper chains of
various colors on it, and popcorn in festoons.”

The nationalities secretary from the Y.W.C.A.
had been born in Alsace-Lorraine, and what a
jolly Christmas she told about! Her face was
radiant as she told it and we all loved her. She
sang for us a beautiful German Christmas song in
German, and then we sang it with her.

A second-generation German background woman
told of similar but not so merry Christmas customs
in her childhood. One such custom was that the
Christmas tree could not be seen by the children
until the door was opened after the tree was lit.

The next person, who grew up in a Jewish
home in an Irish community, told of snowball
lights and of sledding down
the only hill in town. Soon
our whole group was singing
with him “Jingle Bells.” He
also described the Jewish

Price. $|.75.

winter season.

Courtesy Harper and Brothers

484 A CHRISTMAS PARTY THAT RE—CREATES

December Festival of Lights called Chanukah. His
friend was one of the town’s best-loved cantors,
and he, at our request, stood before the mantel,_lit
one by one the tiny candles with the shamos (ser—
vant) candle, and sang the traditional chant. Then
came a bit of the history of this event—the story
of the Maccabees. Although authorities think that
this Feast of Lights is based on the ancient nature
festival of the winter solstice, there was an im-
portant historical event some I 50 years B.C. which
ever since has been the basis of the Hebrew cele-
- bration in December, or Kislev, to use the Hebrew
calendar. This event, in short, was that the Syrians
had conquered the Hebrews and were forcing them
to give up their religion and culture; but finally a
small band of men, the Maccabees, fought and won
a battle against great odds. They felt that their
victory was due to their faith in God and of God’s
care of them. When the ruined temple was re-
dedicated, a miracle happened. Some oil which
looked as if it could only last a day lasted eight
days. This is the reason the Jews have Chanukah
for eight days during which they rededicate their
lives to God and the cause of freedom.

How did our Stone Age ancestors, even before
the early Hebrews, react to this season when they
saw the days growing shorter and shorter and
darker and darker? Was it the darkness more
than the coldness that sent the chill into their
souls? Did they feel a sense of relief and joy at
this season when they knew that the sun would
return? As answers to these questions, from dif-
ferent members of the circle, came the myths of
Germanic and Scandinavian Balder, of Greek
Persephone, and of Egyptian Osiris.

As the stories unfolded, we became aware that
through all of them ran the same thread. All was
peace and joy until hate came into the picture,
killing the god or goddess of light and growth.
Then the element of love was sacrificed in order
to bring back the goddess of light. In all myths
they kept their faith, celebrated at this season, that
come what may the forces of light will win over
the forces of darkness.

A young man whose parents grew up in Ukrania
said in a happy tone: “What I’m going to tell you
I never knew was a part of my inheritance until
this week when I asked my parents to tell me of
their childhood memories. It was the custom of
my grandmother to strew hay or straw on her
dining table and to spread her best embroidered
tablecloth over it. A sheaf of wheat was put in
the corner of the room. These rites were in com-

memoration of the humble surroundings into which
the baby Jesus was born. During the meal some-
one would throw a handful of kutya to the ceiling.
If it stuck, the coming year would be a prosperous
and happy one.”

A woman born in England told of making plum
pudding, and then we joined with her in singing
some old English Christmas carols. A Negro
born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, described a
New England Christmas; another from South
Carolina told with much humor of the doll she
received year after year with a new‘ dress on. She
led us in singing some spirituals.

When the group was asked if any came from
families that sat around the Christmas tree listen-
ing to the oldest member read the nativity story
from St. Luke, the woman born in England said,
“Yes, we did that!” With face ashine she then,
to our amazement, recited those memorable verses
beginning with “And it came to pass . . .” and
ending with the angels singing “Glory to God in
the highest and on earth peace, goodwill toward

.7,

men.

There is not space to give a report of all the
memories shared so happily at this festival, but
one more must be added, for it came as such a
surprise. The leader was summing up and point-
ing out the similarities: that our Stone Age an-
cestors held festivals at this season because they
knew that the forces of light would win over the
forces of darkness; our Palestinian ancestors, be—
cause they knew that the weak can win over the
strong if right is on their side and if they keep
their faith in God ;_Christians, because they know
that the power of love will win over the power of
hate. Then the leader asked if anyone wanted to
add to the summary, and someone who had come
in late asked, “Would you like to hear from
Persia?” She then came into the center of the
circle, and sitting in Buddha fashion she told of
the faith of the Bahaists that some day there will
be a world religion. ,She then chanted softly in
Persian something which somehow cemented us all
together into a period of silence, after which some
of the evening’s songs were repeated. So it was
that the Hebrew chant, the German Christmas
song, the old English carol, the Persian chant, and
the Negro spiritual were woven together as we
ended on a joyous note singing “Walk Together
Children, Don’t Grow Weary.”

As the group broke apart with excited exclama—
tions of : “I never spent a happier evening.” “Let’s

( C ontiuurd on page 530)
RECREATION

"\We Are the Youth”

 

U E ARE the youth of
Wthis troubled and
chaotic community
appealing to you and others
like you for your help and
guidance in the problems
that now face us. You will
leave the troubles of today

in our hands. ,
“Every one of you is faced with the problem of

suitable recreation for your child. Where does
your Bob or Susie go when they go out? To a
tavern? To a juke joint? To a dive? Do you
think these places suitable for good character
building? \Nill these places encourage our youth
to become good citizens? You are going to leave
this city to the governing of the present genera-
tion? Do you want a corrupt, rotten city or do
you want a city you can be proud of? Why is
teen age recreation a problem in East St. Louis?
Let us tell you why: (1) Lack of available facili—
ties; (2) no organization, funds, personnel, et

DECEMBER 1943

by the National

A group of young people from the schools of
East St. Louis' IllinoisI who worked from 7
o'clock until midnight drafting this state-
ment which represents their careful thinking.
According to the East St. Louis Journal, the
teen-agers became interested in the subject
of juvenile delinquency after reading three
pamphlets, one of them Teen Trouble, issued
Recreation Association.

y
a w o y i '1»

 

Courtesy East St. Louis Journal

cetera; and, last but not -
least, the citizens of East
St. Louis are passing the
buck. You should do
something about it!

“How about the schools
you are paying for? You
say that the taxes you are
, paying provide for the
equipment we are supposed to use. Why should
the gymnasium be locked when it is needed so
badly? Why doisome of the parks have their gates
locked to us? They are our parks, why can’t we
use them? What help are you going to give us?
Are you going to support us?

“It seems to us that we are being neglected. We
are more or less taken for granted. After all, we
are just kids. If we do something that our elders
and worthy advisers consider bad and ill—bred they
classify it as being only natural or that we just
happened to get into the wrong crowd. Would this

(Continued on page 525)
485

Parties for Newcomers

 

Baltimore Hangs Out the Welcome Sign

ERE THEY COME—from
H all directions to a
strange, new, city——
thousands seeking better pay-
ing jobs, more advantages, a
new start or the thrill of

adventure.

What do they find? Thousands of workers look—
ing for the same thing. Unless all arrangements
were made ahead of time, they have no home, no
job, and no thrilling adventure. They are'con-
fused and sometimes frightened. After days of
looking, their reward may be a small apartment
or! one of the houses in a newly built housing unit.
If these are all occupied, they have only one solu-
tion—pack up the family, try to get gasoline for the
old car, and return home until “something breaks”
when they will try again.

Those who are lucky busy themselves at first
with all the exciting details of moving in and mak-
ing their belongings lit into the new home. The
new working hours are different from the job back
home and this means another adjustment. Their
neighbors may be from Texas ranch country, the
fertile farms of Iowa, the Kentucky hills, or the
crowded streets of New York. All of them are ac-
customed to different ways of living and all are
looking for that something that will make‘ them
happy and contented in this new life. Fortunately,
the great majority are young, ready and eager for
whatever the future holds.

An invitation to a party. Imagine how thrilling
it was for the workers who went to Baltimore to
go to their mail boxes and find post-card invita-
tions announcing'a get-together at the Perkins
Community House for all adults over sixteen who
were living in the Perkins Housing Project. The
party crew of the Baltimore Department of- Pub-
lic Recreation was to supply the fun.

Contact the project manager. The manager of
the project had responded to the Department of
Public Recreation’s offer to stage some get-ac-
quainted parties for newcomers. The members of
the tenants committee wifre enthusiastic about
the idea. The date was a Saturday in March;
the place, the auditdrium which had been cleaned

486

When war workers began flooding into
Baltimore. Maryland. the party crew of
the Department of Public Recreation
took things into their own .hands and
threw a party for the newcomers at
Perkins Housing Project. Here is a blue-
print of the evening's tun. Try it!

by a volunteer committee of
women: A piano was donated
for the party, and the Depart-
ment of Recreation loaned
the truck and driver. When
the party night came every-
thing was ready, but the
members of the committee and the social recrea-
tion crew from the Department had their lingers
crossed. Would anybody come? Soon the first
guests started straggling in—~hesitating a bit “just
to see what it’s all about.”

Get-acquainted name cards. The committee gave
all the guests name slips to wear, along with a
song sheet of tunes that everyone knows.

Community singing. After a few more arrived,
they grouped around the piano and started off
with the old familiar words of “Let Me Call You
Sweetheart,” “East Side, West Side,” and “Long,
Long Trail.” It was astonishing, however. that
this little group of seventy were not all familiar
with many of the usually. well-known songs on the
song sheet and as a result did not sing them well
together.

Objective—find the common interest. At this

'point the leaders realized that the problem of help-

ing them become socialized involved overcoming
such handicaps as different backgrounds, nationali-
ties, and customs, likes and dislikes, and play ex-
periences. Some guests who were disgruntled over
their living conditions were eager to use the play-
time to discuss their difficulties.

The charm of musical mixers. Almost everyone
has a sense of rhythm, so the figures of the-Grand
March to the familiar, “Stars and Stripes For-
ever” or “Anchors Aweigh,” went a long way to-
ward unifying the group. Soon there was laughter
and the hum of congeniality.

Circle mixers. Off to a good start—the problem
now was to guide carefully the party guests from
familiar activities into simple new play experiences
without losing interest and enthusiasm. Circle
Chat (the leader provided the topics for conversa—
tiOn), Jolly is the Farmer (an easy shifting of
partners), and Glow Worm (a continuous walk-

(antinlucd on page 530)
 i . a

h

RECREATION-

Horseshoe Players Move indoors

even the most hardy horse-

shoe pitcher takes to fireside
0r bowling alley, abandoning his
ringers until spring. But such is not the case in
White Plains, New York, where the Department
of Recreation has made horseshoe pitching a year-
round sport. When winter approaches, the play—
ers simply move into a small gymnasium in a for-
mer high school building, now given over to a
variety of municipal uses.

Three regulation courts have been installed in
the building which is centrally located within a
block of City Hall and Police Headquarters, and
three blocks from the Fire Department. Police—
men and firemen play before and after tours of
duty, and these two departments have a keen
rivalry on the courts. From these matches has
emerged the City Cham-
pion—Police Chief Wil-
"liam Miller.

The indoor courts
serve as“ a nucleus for
many social activities” in
White Plains. Clubs
have been formed,
forums started, coed
parties conducted, and
picnics and fishing trips
planned for the Spring
and summer. Family
contests are arranged
with handicap lines
painted on the floor to
guide the younger
pitchers. H

The courts aren’t just
a. center for adults in

USUALLY WHEN winter comes,

Ii‘h
WI III
I.“
I
.I

"" 1...
.. I
g D
a
n
w W9

III-l
I
I II...

.. i‘5%§\ ‘-

gain-In-u
“L

uni-
noun

0

When winter comes to
Westchester CountyI
the sport of horse-
shoe pitching just
moves indoors. Here
two enthusiasts try
their "ringer"‘ski|.|.

DECEMBER 5943

By CARL E. WAITE

Commissioner of Recreation

White PlainsI N. Y.

 

the community. School children,
originally sent by physical instruct-
ors to make up extracurricular re-
quirements, have formed school
and class clubs which function during the winter
months, from October to April.

From the city playgrounds has come a New
York State champion —y0ung William Hamann
who won the city junior championship both in—
doors and outdoors and then went on to win the
state title in 1938 at the age of 18.

For construction of the indoor courts, wood and
concrete flooring in the gymnasium was removed
to a depth of six inches. A solid wooden frame,
three feet square, made of two—by-fours, was in-
serted and filled with blue clay. The iron peg was

anchored in a six—by-six timber laid across the
bottom of the pit.

Three feet back, on
each side of the pit, is a
two-by-twelve plank, set
on edge, as a protection
from ricocheting shoes.
Spectators and scorers
sit‘ behind a two foot
wooden wall, topped by _‘
another two feet of wire
fencing. The front and
sides of the box are
padded with discarded
fire hose, which saves
the wood from splinter-
ing and deadens the fall
of a short-pitch. -

White Plains is also
proud of its terraced,-
landscaped, and lighted
battery of nine outdoor

' pits on two levels, sur-
rounded by comfortable
benches and shade-trees.
An adjoining building
is used to store horse-
shoes and equipment
and is' complete with a
tiled rest room.

‘ Photo by Kartluke {Continued on page 520)

487

' How to Skate Sater

GOOD MANY people
A have got drowned in

the ice by wearing a
coat with a belt on it or a
large button in the front.
(The belt or the button
catch on the edge of the
ice just as one is wiggling
back onto safe ice.)

Don’t be fooled by the ice. It may be a foot
thick and not hold your weight. (This is in the
Spring when the sun’s rays have penetrated through
the ice and rotted it out underneath.)

Ice two inches thick may hold a multitude.
(This is in the early part of the year on new pure
“black” ice which has no snow.on it.)

Do not be fooled by the ice because it is strong
in one place. (It may be a foot thick one step, and
an inch thick the next step, because a spring or a
sewer or a brook has come up from the water
under the ice.) ‘

Do not be fooled by the temperature. The tem-
perature may be below zero and the- ice 'less than
half an inch thick, (because the water had been
warm during the previous week.)

The temperature may be between 50 and 60 like
a day in June and the ice still be strong (because
it froze solidly during the previous week, and is
good solid ice which only waters on the top.)

Girls: It is best to go skating when the ther-
mometer is about 40, after a period of comparative
cold weather. It will not be so cold that your
fingers and feet will be uncomfortable. Avoid
skating on very cold, windy days. There is no need
of it.

(Do not think that the ice will be strong in the
afternoon because it was strong in the morning. It
may be strong enough to hold a horse in the morn-
ing, during late February or March when the sun’s
rays are high, and weak
enough to let a child fall
through when you come
back after dinner.)

Falling Through ,the Ice

If you see somebody else
fall in, and you are on
skates, reach a stick to them,
or throw them a rope, if you

488

A guide to having fun and saving
lives' prepared for the use of
children and addressed to them

By JOSEPH LEE

Boston. Massachusetts

Mr. Lee explains that the rescue methods
he describes here are based on original
notes in the Red Cross Manual. revised
and amplified by experiments conducted
through the cooperation of Boston's win-
ter-swimming L Street Brownies,-who "ac-
cidentally broke through the ice and sub-
mitted to rescue by various measures. as
gracious guinea pigs in the interest of
science and future ice-cracking victims."

can come near enough to
do this without falling in.
If you have not got skates
on, do not do anything but
call for help, because you
will just be pulled into the
hole yourself. However, if
there is a ladder at the
edge of the pond, this may
be pushed out on the ice with greater safety,
though not so quickly.

If there are other people around, and you have
not got skates, lie down flat on the ice, each hold-
ing the other’s heels, so that the nearest one can
reach the man in the water. This “human chain”
must be long enough for the last man to be on
shore and get a firm grip by which to pull the
“human chain” towards him. If the last man has
skates of course there is no need of reaching to the
shore for firm footing. .r

If you fall through the ice yourself, try to get
out the best and quickest way you can if the ice is
strong enough around you to hold your Weight.

If it breaks around you as you try to climb up
on it, you are going to have serious trouble.

Try “feather kicking” your legs up horizontal
behind you, and then rolling out on the ice, so that
your body will be spread out over a bigger area
of the ice. Then keep: rolling away as fast as you
can with your hands over your head so as not to
press down into the ice.

If the ice is very thin—too thin to roll out 0n—-—
you can sometimes break it like a hammer by lift-
ing your elbows above the ice and bringing them
down on the ice to break a path for yourself.

If it is a cold day, you can leave your water
soaked mittens on the ice in front of you, so that
they will freeze and anchor your hands to the ice
while you wait and call for help.

(If someone throws you
a rope or reaches you a
stick, arch your back so that
they can pull you up. over
the edge of the ice, without
your legs being doubled
under you.)

The Best Rule of All. Skate
on flooded fields or shallow
ponds where the water is

~ RECREATION

HOW TO SKATE SAFELY 489_

only a foot or two deep, if
you fall in. (Find out the
depth of the pond near your

home.)
Next Best Rule. Skate where

other people are already skat-

ing and you can see that the

ice is not cracking. Skate exactly where they are
skating, following their tracks.

Always keep away from bridges, where the heat
of the bridge and the current melts the ice most
dangerously. Keep away from brooks along the
side of a pond. Be especially careful at the first of
the winter, when ice is half frozen, and at the end
of winter when it is eaten out underneath by the

sun’s rays.

Never rely on snow that is on the ice, or piled
up in a mound, or ridge on it. The snow melts the
ice underneath like a blanket, and leaves but water
below, making it the weakest place around. Also,
you cannot see what you are stepping into.

' Special Methods of Rescuing Others

If you are using a ladder,_push it on the ice
ahead of you like a sled, ready to throw your
weight on it in case the ice gives away. If you go
through the ice, pull the ladder back across the
hole over you and climb out on the middle of it.
Always leave the rope on the end of ladder trail-

ing back towards shore for other people to get
hold of. '

If you are equipping a pond with ladders, bevel
the corners of the lad-
der, top and bottom,
at both ends, so that
the forward corners
won’t catch in slushy
ice when being pushed
out. Leave a long rope,
tied to one end, to trail
ashore.

Do not use a boat if
any better means are
at hand. It is hard to
get the boat on to the
ice, and the only hope
is to keep the boat
skidding over the ice
without breaking
through. After the boat
breaks through the ice
it is almost hopeless

DECEMBER 1943

It may be of interest to some of our
readers to know that the techniques
of ice treatment mentioned by the au-
thor as having been developed by Ernst
Hermann. are described in detail in
"New Play Areas.'' by George D. Butler.

 

to make progress with it
through the ice in which it is
locked. The boat is good only
in the hope that you can get
to the victim’s side before it
breaks through the ice, and
then all of you may be able

to tumble or climb inside the boat, awaiting further
attempts at rescue.

If a boat should break through ice on its way to
a rescue over ice, all you can do is have both
pe0ple—if two are in the boat—go to the back end
of the boat and then push the lifted front end up

on to and over the ice ahead by shoving with an
oar against the broken edge of ice behind. One of
them should then go forward till his weight breaks
the ice under the front end of the boat while the
man in back holds the boat with the oar from
slipping back again. The forward man returns to

the back end of the boat and begins the operation
once more to gain another six inches of progress.
(Take a bucket for bailing. A small board used
as a scoop, may also help. Boats on the shore of
a waterway in the winter leak. Boats also upset
pulling the victim aboard. Keep weight down.)

Final Rule

When you are old enough, by following these
directions and learning how not to be fooled by
ice, you can be the one to go out first. Otherwise,

 

Courtesy Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioner:

490 HOW TO SKATE SAFELY

positively and absolutely that the water is only a
foot deep anyway.

Use ice more than you do; on the warm days as
well as the cold days, but know what you are
doing. Any time that you step on the ice or go to
a new part of the ice, ask yourself, “How am I
sure that I know what I’m doing?”

Suggestions for the Skating Supervisor

The adult supervisor in charge of public skat-
ing for a town, city, or reservation needs the fol-
lowing paraphernalia:

I. A thermometer outside his window.

2. The daily newspaper.

3. A rough sketch of each body of ice with pen—
cil lines shaded in to mark the areas found
to be weak or slow to freeze, and with plenty
of white space 'for additional notes on the
borders.

4. An ordinary walking cane, but made of iron,
with the lower end flattened out chisel—
shaped. '

5. A notebook.

With this equipment, the recreation supervisor
can keep a written record of the average daily
temperature, taken from the newspaper, and cor-
rected by the latest reading on his own thermome—
ter, and he can readily sound the ice with his iron
walking cane to disclose the thickness which must
be then read and revised in connection with the
daily temperature trend. He will soon, as he goes
along, have completed a set of maps showing the
good and bad places in each pond. It will be found
that ponds and rivers run true to character, re-
peating the same weak spots or good areas year
after year. The supervisor eventually will be able
to stay at home and tell the thickness of ice in
each part of every pond by his case-history records
and current chronology. (In actual field work, a
heavy single blow with the iron cane that will not

pierce the ice shows ice strong enough for crowded
skating.)

Artificial Aids and Techniques

It will be noted that no reference is made above
to techniques of ice treatment. That field has been
well covered by the late Dean Ernst Hermann.

The most essential feature to recall concerning
artificial ice treatment is that removing snow which
otherwise would lie on the ice and Spoil much of
the season, not only frees the ice for skating during
the period when the snow would otherwise be
there, but much longer! It gives six times as
many skating days! In other words, removing

snow from ice, when it falls, both keeps the snow
away and, in addition, leaves clear, hard, “black”
ice to last throughout the season. It affords con—
tinuous hard ice that can be skated on even. during
hot spells when the thermometer rises to 50° or
even 6o°—so comfortable for skating. Soft, spongy
ice into which the snow has been allowed to melt
turns into slush or skater’s “fly—paper” every time
the thermometer climbs above the freezing point.
(Snow should be pushed off the pond. Left in
piles on the ice, it melts the ice beneath, and is
most treacherous. In cleaning off the ice, the open,
light tractor with broad tread is the safest mechan—
ism, not a heavy truck with four separate wheels
and a closed cab.)

Other accessory services are the warm skating
house for changing shoes, which greatly attracts
the public.

There is also the plan of setting the walls of
hockey rinks on skates so that they may be shifted
and will not melt hollows in the ice near them
from radiated sun-heat.

Fine points of watering the cracks and fissures
in hard old ice at night for freezing a smooth
surface, of putting down a new surface with a fine
spray, or of mooring booms—at inlets or outlets,
for example—to quiet a turbulent surface for
freezing, are beyond the aspiration of the usual
program. The emphasis above has not been on
any forms of artificial treatments, but on using
safely and wisely what nature afforded. When one
natural waterway is bad for skating, another will
be found good, and can be called to public at-
tention.

Popularizing Use and Safety

A good skating bulletin in the daily newspaper
will greatly attract urban participants to the cur-
rently available natural ponds. Police emphasis
should be on wisely directing skaters to good
areas, not on punitively diSpersing them off bad.

The final help and precaution is a mimeographed
direction sheet showing locations of the better
areas and containing handy points on safe skating
and rescue methods, to be distributed by police or
recreation workers to those wisely or unwisely as-
suming adventure on ice, and to residents around
the shores of each body of ice. A recreation leader
on skates, on populous skating areas, to make par-
ticipants safety-conscious and ice—conscious by in—
formal instruction, is, of course, a great help. A
hurdy-gurdy on the shore, with plenty of waltzes,
approximates perfection.

RECREATION

Standards for Neighborhood Recreation Areas

ARK, RECREATION, and
P city planning authori-

ties agree that in each
municipality there should
be at least one acre of pub-
licly owned park and rec-
reation Space for each I00 of the local population.
This acreage should be distributed among the vari-
ous types of pr0perties that comprise a well—bal—
anced park and recreation system. The statement
which follows is concerned with only two types,
the playground and the playlield. These are the
basic outdoor areas that serve the year—round
needs of all the people and that should be readily
accessible to all neighborhoods. Furthermore, even
though variable factors in

Do neighborhood recreation areas
and facilities in your community
measure up to 'these standards?

marily children of gram-
mar school age, a desirable
location in most cases was
at or adjoining the ele-
mentary school site.

In recent years there has

been a growing tendency for playgrounds, although
designed primarily for children, to be used by
young people and adults. Among the factors that
have brought about this increasing use of play-
grounds by the entire neighborhood are: A grow-
ing appreciation of the value of family recreation,
a wide interest in neighborhood games, the exten—
sion of daylight saving, a growing demand for

lighted areas for evening use, increased transpor-
tation difficulties, and the

lack of other suitable, easily

each city require individual
study, the space require-
ments of the playground and
playheld can be fairly de-
termined in relation to the
population, and there is con-
siderable agreement among
recreation, school, park and
housing authorities as to
normal space standards for
these areas. Other types of
park and recreation proper—

So many communities are making plans for
postwar development proiectsl including
recreationI it is of the utmost importance
that plans made for recreation facilities
shall be in accordance with accepted
present-day standards. This statement
was prepared to serve as a guide-to com-
munities looking forward to the expan-
sion of their recreation areas. The advice
of a number of experienced recreation
executives and planning authorities was
secured in preparing the material' which
represents the accumulated experience and

thinking of many leaders in the tield.‘

accessible outdoor facilities
for youth and adults. As a
result of changing condi-
tions, the neighborhood play—
ground is no longer con-
sidered primarily as a chil-
dren’s area but as a play-
ground for the entire neigh-
borhood. It not only serves
the children’s needs but af-
fords limited opportunities
for informal recreation for

ties serve important func—
tions, but any city that pro-
vides adequate playgrounds and playhelds for all
residential neighborhoods has gone far toward
meeting the basic recreational needs of the people.
Few cities can boast of such an achievement.

The Neighborhood Playground ’

For many years the playground has been defined
as an outdoor area which provides opportunities
for children, primarily from six to fourteen inclu—
sive, to take part in a variety of fundamental and
enjoyable play activities. Its space requirements,
location, facilities, and operation have been deter-
mined largely by the recreation needs of this age
group. It has long been recognized that there
should be a children’s playground as well as a
school within easy walking distance of every home,
and every soundly conceived plan for city recrea-
tion provides a playground near the center of each
neighborhood. Since the playground served pri-

DECEMBER 1943

young people and adults. It
is an outdoor center Where the people of the neigh-
borhood can find recreation and relaxation with
their families, neighbors or friends.

Some playground features Intended primarily
for children may be used at times or under certain
conditions by the older people of the neighbor—
hood. In other cases separate facilities are needed
for children and for adults. Games popular with
the latter group that can be provided on the play-
ground include shuffleboard, paddle tennis, hand-
ball, horseshoes, tennis, boccie, croquet, badmin-
ton and volleyball. A corner equipped With tables
for checkers and other similar games may well be
set aside for the old-timers. Intelligent planning
and control are even more important on a play-
ground serving a wide range of— ages than on an
area used by children only.

The enlarged service of the neighborhood play-
ground has necessitated changes in playground

491

492 . STANDARDS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATION AREAS

standards. The former re—
quirements for the children’s
playground must still be
met, but additional space
and facilities are needed for
the older people. Careful
planning and intelligent
operation make possible a
greater volume of service
with little increase in the
size of the playground. It
should be kept in mind that whereas the play-
ground will continue to be the chief center of out-
door play for all the children of the neighborhood,
the young people and adults will seek much of
their recreation at other and more distant areas.

Playground Standards. The following standards
as to location, size and facilities are recommended

for the neighborhood playground:

I. There should be a playground within a quar-
ter to a half mile of every home. In densely built-
up neighborhoods a playground is needed within
a quarter mile of every home; under the most
favorable neighborhood conditions, no person
should be obliged to walk more than one half mile
to reach a playground.

2. For the city as a whole there should be one

acre of neighborhood playground space for each
800 of the present or estimated future population.

3. The space requirements for neighborhoods
of different populations vary as follows:

Present or Estimated Future Minimum Size of the

Population of Neighborhood Playground Needed
1,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2.75 acres

2,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.25 acres

3,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.00 acres

4,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  acres

5,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6.00 acres

If the neighborhood has much more than 5,000
population, it is generally preferable to develop
more than one playground to serve it. This is
because it is often difficult to obtain suitable prop-
erties larger than six acres. Furthermore, two
smaller playgrounds, if ample in size and properly
located, will be nearer more homes and will attract
a greater total attendance than a single larger play-
ground. An existing playground that falls far
short of the recommended space standard cannot
serve the needs of all the people of the neighbor-
hood. Unless it can be enlarged, such a_ play-
ground should generally be developed for and re—
stricted to children's use.

This material represents extracts from a
recently published pamphlet—"Standards
tor Neighborhood Recreation Areas and Fa-
cilities"-—availab|e from the National Rec-
reation Association at l5 cents. In addi-
tion. the pamphlet discusses agencies in
the community concerned with recreation.
the importance of cooperation, and how to
secure acceptance of the standards. 'A di-
gest of the statement is available in a
briefer publication available at IO cents.

4. The playground should
have most of the following
features: corner for pre-
school children; an appara-
tus area; an Open space for
informal play; fields for
games such as softball, modi-
fied soccer, and touch foot-
ball ; courts for tennis, hand-
ball, horseshoes, paddle ten-
nis, volleyball and other
games; an area for quiet games, crafts, dramatics,
and storytelling; a corner for table games and
other activities for old people; shelter houses;
wading pool. Trees and other plant materials
should be introduced insofar as practicable.

The Playfield

The playfield is the type of recreation area that
provides varied facilities primarily for the use of
young pe0ple and adults, although a section is
often developed as a playground for the children
of the surrounding neighborhood. The playfield
affords opportunities for young people and adults
to engage in many valuable and popular forms of
recreation that require too much space to be car—
ried on at the neighborhood playground. Among
these activities are baseball, football, soccer, field
hockey, archery and picnicking. An outdoor thea-
ter, recreation building, and swimming pool are
common playfield features. Unlike the athletic
field which is developed only for highly Specialized
sports such as baseball, football and track, the
playtield is an area designed for diversified use by
peOple of all ages.

Most people will attend the playtield less fre-
quently than the playground because it is farther
from their homes and because many playtield ac-
tivities such as baseball or swimming require a
considerable time period. Experience has shown
they will walk a longer distance'for such activities.
Each section of the city should have an adequate
properly developed playtield ; in general a playheld
will meet the needs of the people served by four
neighborhood playgrounds. There are advantages
in locating the playfield on or adjoining the high
school site. If sufficient suitable land is obtainable,
part of the playfleld may be developed as a land-
scape' park; in this case the area is called a play-
field-park.

Playtield Standards. The following standards as
to size, location and features are recommended for
the playtield:

RECREATION

STANDARDS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATION AREAS 493

I . There should be a playtield within a half mile
to a mile of every home, the distance depending

upon population density and ease of access.

2. For the city as a whole there should beone
acre of playiield for each 800 of the present or
estimated future population.

3. Ten to twelve acres is the minimum site which
will serve as a playtield, but an area of twenty
acres is generally required to provide the essential
features. Some times more acreage is needed. A
playneld should be provided for at least every
20,000 of the population. Larger population units
can better be served by two smaller playhelds than
by a single large area.

4. The playf1eld should have most of the follow-
ing features: children’s playground; areas for. sev-
eral major field games and sports for men and for
women; courts for tennis, shufHeboard, boccie,
badminton, volleyball and other games; lawn area
for such activities as croquet, archery, clock golf;
swimming pool ; outdoor theater; center with coun-
cil ring for day gamping; picnic center for small
groups; facilities for winter sports; recreation
building; and parking area. Opportunities for
landscape development should be fully utilized.

Standards for Indoor Recreation Facilities

Indoor recreation spaces and facilities as well as
outdoor areas are needed if people are to have

opportunity for a well—balanced recreation life
throughout the year. Many activities can only be
carried on successfully indoors. During much of
the year outdoor activities are restricted by climate
and weather; hence buildings are needed where
recreation programs can be carried on. Any plan
for furnishing adequate recreation service to the
people of a neighborhood or community must in-
clude a consideration of the nature, availability,
and extent of existing indoor recreation facilities,
and of the additional facilities needed.

The question of standards for indoor recreation
facilities has received little consideration although
school authorities have indicated the space needed
primarily for pupils enrolled in schools, and the
federal housing agency has adopted standards for
minimum indoor recreation space for public hous-
ing projects. In addition to schools and commu-
nity buildings in housing projects, there are many
public buildings with facilities designed or suitable
for recreation. They include shelter houses, city
auditoriums, held houses, youth centers, and spe-
cialized buildings such as an arts and crafts center,
theater, sports arena or indoor swimming pool.

The playground at Lincoln Elementary School
in Long Beach. CaliforniaI goes far to meet
the important requirement of adequate space

 

DECEMBER 1943

494 STANDARDS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATION AREAS

The Recreation Building

These various buildings serve a useful purpose.
Nevertheless, a well-rounded indoor recreation
program that makes a vital contribution to the
leisure time of the people requires a building with
diversified indoor facilities serving varied recrea—
tional interests. Examples of such a building are
the community house, the 'school building de—
signed and operated as an indoor recreation center,
and the community recreation building.

Such a building should be located near the cen—
ter of the community or section of the city it is
intended to serve. In general, a desirable site is
at or adjoining the playfield serving the same area.
Such an arrangement makes possible a combined
indoor-outdoor recreation center and makes for
efliciency of service and economy of operation. To
serve its purpose such a building must be generally
and regularly available for the recreational use of
the entire community the year round. Unless a
building provides facilities that make possible a
program that meets the varied community needs,
and unless the periods and conditions of use are
satisfactory, it' cannot serve as a real community
recreation building.

The following standards are recommended:

I. There should be a community recreation
building or center within a half mile to a mile of
every home, the distance depending upon popula-
tion density and ease of access.

2. Such a building, or center, should be pro-
vided for at least every 20,000 of the population.

3. It should be generally and regularly available
for the recreational use of the entire community
throughout the year.

4. It should provide most of the following
facilities:

Gymnasium, with seats for spectators, lockers and
showers, suitable for basketball, volleyball and other
floor games, gymnasium classes, and dances, socials,
holiday celebrations and similar activities.

Assembly hall or auditorium with stage, and prefer-
ably with removable seats, for concerts, lectures,
movies, dramatics, rallies, ubanquets, recreation demon-
strations and community gatherings.

Room for informal reading and quiet table games,
where an individual may drop in for a few minutes or
spend an evening with one or more friends.

Room equipped for various types of arts and crafts
activities.

Social or play room for small group parties, square
dancing, play rehearsals, and other activities involving
fairly small groups.

Room for table tennis, billiards, darts, shuffleboard and
active table games.

Two or more club or multiple-use rooms for club and
committee meetings and hobby groups of all kinds.

Refreshment stand or snack bar.

Kitchen for preparing meals and simple refreshments
and also for cooking and canning classes.

Office for the director. ‘3‘

Essential service rooms and facilities including ample
storage spaces for equipment and supplies.

Indoor Recreation Facilities

An appraisal of a city’s indoor recreation re—
sources must take into account not only the mul—
tiple-use recreation buildings but all buildings that
have facilities regularly available for community
recreation use. The specific interests of different
communities vary, but experience has shown that
in general the indoor facilities required to serve
these interests are similar. Local conditions or
needs may make desirable special features such as
a music room,_pistol_range, bowling alleys, dark
room, or library.

The following standards represent the indoor
facilities that should be available for community
recreation use in every city, regardless of the type
of building in which they are provided:

A gymnasium for each 10,000 of the population
or less.

An auditorium or assembly hall for each 20,000
or less.

A social room or play room for each 10,000 or
less. .

An informal reading and quiet game room for
each 10,000 or less.

An indoor game room for each 10,000 or less.

A room equipped as an arts and crafts workshop
for each 10,000 or less.

A club or multiple-use room for each 4,000 or
less.

An indoor swimming pool for each 50,000 or less.

Community groups and individuals desiring fur-
ther information on standards will wish to know
that there is now available from the National Rec-
reation Association a free bulletin (M. B. 1418)
entitled “Bibliography on Recreation Areas and
Facilities for Residential Neighborhoods.” This lists
a number of publications and sources of information
on standards, planning, and development of outdoor
recreation areas and indoor recreation facilities.

RECREATION

Looking Forward

What could be more timely than
a "looking forward" ‘party for
young people as a celebration
of the coming of the new year?

out the old, ring in the new,” and we shall
pay homage to the traditional by using bells
for the chief decorative motif for our party.

Christmas greens will still be with us ——for all
good Christmas loving folk keep them until twelfth
night, and they will make a beautiful background
for the New Year’s bells.

Stretch light r0pes or heavy twine horizontally
or crosswise across the room, from corner to cor-
ner, according to your taste or the layout of your
room.- If this, is not practicable, work out a
scheme, such as having a series of bells hung
across the corners, over the dais, or wherever the
musicians sit, and over the refreshment table.

Have -bells of all sizes. Their colors will, of
course, be a matter of individual taste, and they
should have some relation to the background with
which you have to work.

Colored construction paper with a plentiful
sprinkling of gold, silver, and copper tinted shiny
paper bells, will make a wonderful picture, and
will impress the young revelers with the spirit of
the evening as they come into the room.

If circumstances permit, have committees from
among the participants take charge of the various
features of the evening. If the party must be com-
pletely engineered by the hostess or the sponsors,
~ it is not too formidable an undertaking for several
people to make these decorative bells which will
serve to adorn many future festivities. Cut the
bells in varying sizes and allow a large fold-over
piece at the top for pinning or pasting to the ropes.

If there is a stage, platform, or dais, make a
backdrop of brown paper painted with show card
colors in amusing or sentimental designs—or both,
if you like: A ship sailing into the dawn, for in-
stance. It may sound ambitious, but there is sure
to be someone who has a knack for this sort of
thing. There can be sketches of fantastic gadgets
for use in the future, or sketches of what the well-
dressed citizens will be wearing in 1960. All these

EVERY NEW YEAR’S DAY brings the urge to “Ring

DECEMBER 1943

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

By LEAH SEWELL

and many more things will come tumbling out of
the hat as you set to work.

And, by the way, a roll of brown store paper a
yard or so in width is one of the most useful
things imaginable for party decorations. The con-
struction paper can be purchased at very small
cost at any stationery or art supply store. If there
is no brush-and-paint talent in your midst, you can
get good effects with colored crepe paper pictures
pasted or sewed to a brown paper foundation.

A New Year’s Eve party for a large young
group is likely to need little more than good dance
music and a fair-sized floor to make it successful,
but it is well to plan a few entertainment features
and games to get things started, and to keep them
lively until refreshment time.

Around the walls, between the Christmas greens,
have a few large panels of water color paper or of
the brown paper on which the words of several
good, rousing New Year’s songs have been
printed with a brush and India ink or black poster
paint. Let New Year’s sentiments have full play.
“Ring Out Wild Bells,” “Here'We Come A—was-
sailing,” with its line chorus of “God bless you,
and give you a, happy New Year,” and perhaps
some popular song choruses which fit into the
party theme of looking ahead would be appro—
priate.

For the games and program you must have a
Master or Mistress of Ceremonies, but informality
and spontaneity should pervade the evening.

Several groups should be formed for charades
to be given and guessed by the assembly. Choose
subjects in keeping with the party motif. Acting

(Continued on page 524)

495

 

NB OF THE AIDS now recognized for mental
O and emotional balance for the ill is play——

play constructively used to meet the needs
of each patient. Experience has shown that play,
wisely used, can be the means of social adjust—
ment at a time when the patient needs it most. A
resume of play as used in a hospital during the
first \Vorld \Var will throw into relief what we
face and indicate some of the ways in which play
may now be used.

In \Vorld War I, thousands of servicemen were.

poured into Camp Custer (a debarkation camp)
by truck, ship, and train from the battlefields of
Italy, France, Russia, and other European coun—
tries to await diSpersal into civilian life. Hundreds
needing hOSpital care were placed in the twenty-
three ward hospital there.

Captain Breshnahan, morale officer, said many of
the men did not care to live, had no interest in
returning to civilian life, and did not want to see
their wives, children, or parents. Many were not
shell—shocked nor insane but they needed read j ust—
ment because of their war experiences. He claimed
the best medical care could only take them so far
along the road to health ; that something more was

496

Three convalescing service-
men and a Red Cross worker
try their hands at a bit

of extracurricular activity

needed. He sought the
help of the War Camp
Community Service. in
charge of recreation for
the city and camp, request-
ing a professionally trained
recreation leader and eight
volunteers to see what play
could accomplish with hos-
pitalized men.

Little was known then
of play as a therapy and
none of the group chosen
had had hospital experi—
ence. The volunteers were
eight local girls over eight-
een years of age and with-
out recreation back-
grounds ; their director was
a Specialist in recreation.
They met for an hour to
learn quieter kinds of play suitable for two or more
players, games of a social type, tricks and puzzles
that might intrigue the listless or indifferent be—
cause of the challenge they presented for solution.
Only a very general plan could be drawn up ahead
of time for procedure, or timing because'of the
newness of the venture and the necessity for feel—
ing the way in accordance with the needs of the
patients.

On arrival at the hOSpital, the group found a
long room lined on both sides with bed patients
and a porch at one end where the up—patients on
wheel chairs or on crutches were assembled. The
number of girls was so small in pr0portion to the
patients that volunteers had to be scattered to
cover different sections of the room.

The first patient was flat on his back, with one
arm completely gone, a Dakin tube draining a
wound in his side, and the other arm up in trac-
tion with 'all but the forefinger shot off. Naturally
only the mental type of game could be played with
him, but his handicaps did not prevent him from
entering heartily into the play. The second patient,
we learned later, had not spoken to nurses or
doctors since his arrival. Both legs had been shot
off and he felt sullen and hopeless in facing a

American Red Cross Photo

When They Came Back

By ANNE M. SMITH

RECREATION

WHEN THEY CA ME BA CK 497

future without them. Nurses
and doctors clustered about
to watch his reactions to
play. Without knowledge of
these facts, the play leader
placed some toothpicks on a
lapboard in front of him and
said, “Can you do this
match trick?” Simply and naturally he asked
questions about the problem—was he making the
right moves? —— while the doctors and nurses
gasped at the Speed with which a simple trick had
lifted him out of his lethargy.

When the up-patients saw play going on in the
ward, they left the porch, clustered around their
friends in bed, and group play began at nine focal
points. The experiment for the afternoon was de-
clared a success by the patients and the doctors;
every ward except the contagious was thrown
open for continued experimentation two after-
noons each week; all parties and special events
were given to this unit for supervision; and other
problems were presented for play and recreation
to solve. To meet these responsibilities, regular
training for volunteers was given twice each week.

One of the problems was the failure of patients
to carry out the physical exercises prescribed.
Captain Breshnahan told of one soldier with an
instep pierced by three bullets whose foot muscles
would atrophy unless he exercised them. Com-
mands, pleadings, threats—all failed to make him
do the exercises 'he considered so boring. To get
such men to exercise in a form pleasing to them,
Captain Breshnahan asked the recreation director
to bring out a ballroom dance instructor and eight
girls to teach them. He did not think more than
eight men would be interested, and he simply
posted a notice that a dancing class was open for
those who wished to learn.

-The only space available was the stage of the

big recreation hall where hundreds of men read
papers, played table games, listened to victrolas, or
' therwise amused themselves. To protect the awk—
.rard beginners in dancing from the jeers of these
hundreds, the stage curtain was drawn and the
men assembled behind it for instruction. Instead
)f the anticipated eight, there were twenty-three,
and the first man on the floor was the patient with
the three bullet holes in his instep.

Captain Breshnahan appeared to be greatly
astonished. “What in thunderation do you mean
by doing this?” he demanded. “Haven’t you been
babying that foot of yours all this time, and now

DECEMBER 1943

"Once more war is responsible for putting
thousands of servicemen in hospitals. Once
more we face the necessity for making the
months or years they spend there shorter
and happier. We need to send them back
into civilian life not only as physically
sound as possible but better able to face
and to meet the world problems ahead."

you want to DANCE!” “Oh,
Captain, please let me. This
will be fun,” replied the
soldier. The Captain turned
away to hide the smile of
satisfaction on his face, and
left the stage quickly lest ..
the men realize the whole
thing was a put~up job. The men enjoyed the
dancing so much and so many wanted lessons that
it was decided to hold the next session in the of-
ficers’ mess hall. But that, too, proved inadequate
so the Y.VV.C.A. Hostess House was used for the
rest of the year.

As the dancers became more expert other
patients watched from the mezzanine floor the
thousands of couples dancing in the camp Recrea-
tion Center. Whenever they felt like dancing they
would ask one of the volunteers to dance, return-
ing to the mezzanine before the dancing tired them.
Step by step by means of games, dances, parties,
and other social experiences increasingly more
stimulating in camp and in town, the men became
more adjusted to living as social beings. It was a
challenge to see how returned soldiers, indifferent
to living, unwilling to face their responsibilities,
could be brought to more normal attitudes by
play. And it was astonishing to see their eager-
ness in playing what many would consider chil-
dren’s games, and what happened to them while
playing.

Activities where the patients themselves par-
ticipated, such as group games, dances, spontan—
eous group singing, tricks and puzzles played to-
gether seemed to accomplish these results better
than the movies, concerts or dramatic perform-
ances where the patients looked on. Of course,
time itself may soften the effects of experiences so
harsh that they disturb the emotional, mental, or
social balance of an individual, but participation in
social group activities appeared to hasten the cur—
ing process. The‘ group method seemed to be more
efficient for patients already isolated in their
thoughts and feelings than the case work or in—
dividual approach.

This experience with play in the last war dem-
onstrates a method that may prove more effective
and successful now. The casualties of World War
II are on an unprecedented scale. To date they
exceed our losses for the entire World War I. At
the same time the Navy has suffered more losses
than it had in all previous wars in this country’s

(Continued on page 522)

West Hartford Goes to the Country Fair

By CLAYTON W. JOHNSON and J. W. FELDMAN

HE IDEA of a Country Fair in the metropolitan
Ttown of West Hartford, Connecticut, was deli-

nitely not in accord with tradition. It originated
with the \Vest Hartford Kiwanis Club who pre-
sented it to the Department of Recreation for con-
sideration. The Department was enthusiastic about
the idea, and to get the reaction of the community
the director of recreation called a meeting in June
to which all civic and community organizations
were invited. The response was beyond expecta-
tions—from that moment there was no doubt that
the people of West Hartford wanted a Country
Fair.

They All Wanted It!

Almost every organization in town participated
with fifty-eight groups represented on the day of
the Fair. Although a large sum of money was
raised for the National War Fund, the most out-
standing feature of the Fair was the community

A
Courtesy Hartford Courant

498

 

West Hartford's Country Fair really proved
to be. the "talk. of the town" the publicity
committee predicted! And best of all. it
developed a community spirit such as West
Hartford had never experienced. But it
was only a start. Next year there'll be
another tair— a bigger and better one.

cooperatipn. Every section of the town was repre-
sented and everyone took part— young and old,
from the Fish and Game Club to the D.A.R., civic
clubs, P.T.A.’s, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, church
groups, garden clubs and neighborhood groups. It
was a real Town Fair.

Club representatives knew that due to shortage
of gasoline and other restrictions, a large number
of people would be home in the summer. To give
them something to look forward to, Labor Day
was selected as Fair day. All the work per-
taining to the Fair took place during the
summer months when most organizations
are inactive.

An executive committee of seven was
voted to control the planning, organization
and carrying through of the Fair. Reverend
Elden H. Mills of the West Hartford Con—
gregational Church was elected chairman
and J. W. Feldman, director of recreation,
was appointed general manager. Subcom-
mittees included publicity, athletic program,
and grounds. In 'addition to these general
committees, each organization had its own
committee. An estimated seven hundred
people worked on the Fair.

By the middle of August things Were
moving at a fast pace. Twenty-four of the
fifty-eight organizations were to have a
financial part in the Fair, while the re-

Such matters as checking your child were

efficiently handled by the Girl Scouts

RECREATION

WEST HARTFORD GOES TO THE COUNTRY FAIR A‘ 499

Among the wares sold at
the Fair were. of course.
war stamps. It was fun
buying them when offered
you by such attractive
"itinerant" salesladies!

mainder participated in
other ways. The repre-
sentatives decided that all
profits, above expenses,
would go to the National
War Fund.

Victory Gardeners Came

One of the main features
was a display of produce
grown by the local “farmers” in their summer war
gardens. Through the Department of Recreation
an active war garden campaign had been con—
ducted in the early spring and summer, the result
being a large number of gardens. Vacant tracts of
land, town-owned lots, vacant school property,
backyards, frontyards, in fact any and all available
land was used. The Fair gave the gardeners an
opportunity to exhibit the results of their labors.
Mrs. Peter Cascio, chairman of the West Hart-
ford War Garden Committee, directed the Harvest
Show which was held in the auditorium. The
Hartford Garden Clubs cooperated with West Hart-
ford Garden Clubs in this show.

The War Garden Committee had an unusual
stage display. They set up a storage room with the
amount of canned and fresh vegetables which the
Nutrition Committee of the Department of Agri-
culture had recommended for one person for one
vear.

The judges of the show were outstanding people
in the agricultural field of the state. Blue, red, and
white ribbons were awarded to owners of produce
enrolled in 102 different classes. In the afternoon
and evening this auditorium was thrown open to
the public and more than 3,000 peOple filed through
the hall to look at the exhibits.

So Did the Dogs and Their Masters!

Another big event of the Fair was a dog show,
sponsored by the Nutmeg Dog Club. This meet

DECEMBER 1943

 

was sanctioned by the American Kennel Club and
was held in a fenced off area on the High School
grounds. It brought out some of the best dogs in
the state. An interesting feature of the show was

an exhibition of dog obedience training.

Then the Fair Opened

Long before the Fair opened there was much
activity about the grounds. Stands were being
erected, concessionaires were getting their mer-
chandise in order and properly displayed. Soldiers
arrived with tents loaned for the day to several
organizations. By 10:00 A. M. everything was in
order and the Fair was officially opened.

After the Opening speeches the local antiaircraft
band gave an hour’s band concert. At the same
time a baseball game was in progress on the far
side of the field and in another section a horse-
shoe pitching court was receiving plenty of atten-
tion. While preparations were made for the chil-
dren’s pet show, the youngsters were getting plenty
of opportunity to throw balls at victrola records, to
throw rings, or whatever would take their interest
for the moment.

Many of the churches were represented by their
VVomen’s Guild with stands selling pies, cakes,
soda, ice cream, merchandise of one kind or an—
other.

At the children’s pet show everything from dogs
to goats were put on display. Ribbons were given

(Continued on page 520)

Recreation Programs for Shut-Ins

The growing recognition of the importance of recreation for hospital
patients and shut-ins has led to a number of interesting experiments
which we are glad to record in RECREATION as they are brought to our
attention. If you know personally of activities of this type, or
have heard of any, will you not pass your information on to us.

Movies for Shut-Ins

By DOROTHY M. STUHL

“ UT MISS WALLACE, aren’t we going to have

B a comedy?” asked Bobby Sherman, getting

more restless by the minute.

“Of course we are,” answered Miss Wallace,
“but the comedy always comes last.” So Bobby
quieted down for as long as twenty seconds during
the showing of a travelogue. I am frank to con-
fess that Yosemite Park held a great deal of inter-
est for me, but I could readily see where the ice—
covered mountain tops and gorgeous waterfalls
were lost on my companion of eight years in the
wheel chair next to mine.

I had often heard of the joy brought_ to the
patients at St. Luke’s Hospital by the Volunteer
Film Association, but “hearsay” never means as
much as the actual witnessing of such a show. My
brief stay in the hospital was timed perfectly to
allow me the privilege of attending the fortnightly
showing of movies to such patients as their staff
felt would benefit from such a treat. I was one of
fifteen lined up in wheel chairs, with ten who had
graduated to the extent of sitting in regular chairs.

I must admit to a feeling of disappointment when
I first discovered the showing was to take place
in the corridor where traffic is great. However, I
soon found that in this way, not only could the
patients enjoy the show, but throughout the entire
procedure I saw hospital aides, internes, nurses.
and even full-fledged doctors pause for a minute
or two to watch both the pictures and the reactions
of the various patients.

The pictures were chosen
wisely, and every effort was
made to give variety and to
appeal to an audience that
ranged from eight to eighty.
For obvious reasons sound

500

This is the interesting story of the work
of the Volunteer
of St. Louis which is Providing. movie
shows in hospitals in spite of wartime
gasoline rationing and of shortages
of both operators and equipment.

Film Association

pictures had to be eliminated except on special oc-
casions. The cute wiggle bug next to me was not
impressed by scenery, but the story of paper at-
tracted him as he saw men fell logs and watched
the entire process of turning these logs into a great
many different types of paper. At last, when
Donald Duck appeared, he threw caution to the
wind and just let himself go. His laugh was con-
tagious and spread over the whole audience, and I
for one was in a much better mood for having had
this unusual hospital experience.

In a Children’s Hospital

Another interesting place where the Volunteer
Film Association brings its movies is St. Louis
Children’s Hospital. Monday has been set aside as
movie day and four showings are given in the
wards which normally house twenty children.
Again, only silent pictures are used, because the
showing takes place regardless of the fact that one
or two of the children are quite ill. As 'a visitor
on the surgical ward, it was my privilege to sit
next to a wee mite of three who had just had an
operation. He sat up for part- of the Charlie
Chaplin, and smiled weakly at his antics until ex-
haustion overtook him, when he settled down for
a nap which lasted until Mickey Mouse appeared.
Once more he sat up, and with renewed vigor he
laughed out loud over Mickey’s foolishness, oc-
casionally nudging me to see if I appreciated all of
it as much as he felt I should. A little girl on the
other side of me was so interested in some pictures
of our 200 that an interne was able to take quite a
lot of her blood without her apparently noticing-it.
An older boy recovering from a mastoid operation
was much more interested in
the actual mechanics of the
camera than in the movies
themselves. \Vhile the opera-
tors are not encouraged to al—
low children to assist them,
they do occasionally try to let

RECREATION

RECREATION PROGRAMS FOR SHUT—INS 501

them hand them the films and turn the lights off
and on, or perform various other simple tasks that
do not endanger either the child or the equipment.
I have now cited two examples of the kind of
showings this organization makes possible, both of
which take place in institutions. There are many
more of this same sort, but in addition there are
also many patients on the list who receive indi-
vidual service, unless they desire to include their
friends and neighbors. I can think of one man who
had his showing outside when weather permitted
this, and he thought nothing of having anywhere
from one hundred to one hundred and fifty people
see the pictures. Most individuals have a few out—
siders enjoy these shows with them, but few go into
it in the wholesale manner our friend Tom does.

How It Started and Grew

The Volunteer Film Association came into be—
ing on April 12, 1939, at the home of Miss Mar-
jorie Lang, where a meeting was held to which a
small group of doctors, social workers, and ama—
teur photographers were invited. Here Miss Lang
and Miss Susan Barnes presented their ideas of
carrying movies to the shut—ins.

Miss Barnes, in charge of the curative program
of the Occupational Therapy Workshop, had long
been interested in photography of all sorts, par—
ticularly moving pictures. Having many patients
under her, and being one of a large family, she
has had many opportunities to study the benefits
derived from movies of an educational or enter-
taining variety. It was this interest of hers that
led her to bring some of her own travelogues to
the home of her co-founder, Miss Marjorie Lang.

Miss Lang, until illness forced her to stop, had
been a medical student with special interest in
psychiatry, and her knowledge derived from this
study, together with her complete and sympathetic
understanding brought about by her illness, made
her. a splendid teammate for Miss Barnes. When
Miss Lang found out how much enjoyment she
herself received from Miss Barnes’ pictures of
Mexico, she had the vision to realize how many
people there were in the city of St. Louis who
would welcome such a treat if it were made avail—
able. ‘*

The enthusiasm shown at this meeting was in—
deed gratifying. A committee was immediately
appointed to draw up a constitution, which was
accepted one month later. At first there were only
three or four Operators, and the only films avail-
able were those privately owned by interested vol-

DECEMBER 1943

unteers or belonging to friends who were good
enough to allow their use. Today they have as
many as seventy operators and a film library of
their own containing films that have either been
purchased by, or given to them. In addition to the
actual operators, many pe0ple give their time in
other capacities. For example, there is a small
group who spends its time in previewing all the
new films and classifying them in order that each
patient will be best taken care of. Other commit-
tees on which a volunteer may serve are mem—
bership, booking, finance, publicity, technical train—
ing, referral, and nominating.

Where the Films Come From

Space does not permit of a full description of
the activities of each committee, but all are equally
important in the running of this organization. The
booking committee has to do with the source of
supply, and is most interesting for that reason.
There are a great many large industrial firms who
loan films that have been taken in their particular
plants, such as General Electric, Canadian Pacific
Railroad, Anheuser Busch, and many more. Con—
sequently, the travelogues or educational pictures
they show are constantly changing. Walt Disney
loans the organization a few cartoons, although
many others are purchased.

Most showings last anywhere from one to one—
half hours, and are made up with as great a
variety as possible. Final selections, of course,
must fit the interest of the patient and meet the
approval of the doctor in charge. This is where
the referral committee does its work. Special ap-
plication blanks are sent to the individuals as well
as to the social agencies requesting film showings,
and on these blanks are spaces indicated for the
doctor’s signature and any remarks he may care
to make. In other words, they avoid showing wild
west thrillers to children suffering from heart dis-
ease, but rather they show them animated cartoons
and animal pictures.

Financing the Association

How is the Volunteer Film Association financed ?
All active members pay dues of a dollar a year or
give twenty-four hours of service. Many do both.
They have, in addition, an ever—increasing sustain-
ing membership made up of people who cannot
contribute their time but generously send money
and give word—of—mouth publicity. As the work
becomes better known, more and more “In Me—
moriams" are sent to the Flower Fund which is

502 RECREATION PROGRAMS FOR SHUT-INS

used to buy films for the film
library. These contributions,
ranging from a few dollars to
substantial sums, are sent in—
stead of flowers. In many in—
stances the person in whose
memory the donation is made

has been the victim of a long
illness and has enjoyed the benefits our association

makes possible. 0

Every now and then the organization comes in
contact with a patient who needs its help and ’who
can well afford to pay for it. Service is always
rendered whenever possible, but in no case has a
_ fee been charged because it is desired to keep the
program on a purely voluntary basis. However,
patients who can afford to do so frequently show
their gratitude by donating either a film or a piece
of equipment, and in this way help expand the
program.

In the past, on occasion, a night has been spon-
sored at the Little Theatre of St. Louis, thereby
raising quite a substantial sum. In other instances
a showing especially suited for children has been
put on for which a small admission fee was
charged. These various methods for raising funds

have all proven successful.
While the war has naturally affected the activi-

ties of the organization, as it has affected every-
thing else, it is carrying on because the members
feel so strongly that now, more than ever, patients
need whatever pleasure and diversion they can get.
Many of them have faced real tragedy because of
the war, and all of them have known hardship.
They are striving, in spite of gas rationing, to
show as many pictures as possible to people who
are in real need of seeing them, and so far they
are achieving their goal.

For a

A Party for Shut-Ins

' By FREDA S. COMBS

Playground and Recreation Board
Decatur, Illinois

ARECREATION DEPARTMENT has the responsibil-
ity of serving the entire community, but some-
times there is a tendency to overlook the people
who are obliged to spend their lives indoors, en-
joying most of the pleasures of life vicariously.
We in Decatur began one day to think about our
shut-ins, and a number of ideas presented them-

An invitation sayingI "You are asked

to come to a party." always brings a
thrill of pleasure to the person re-
ceiving it, even though it is a famil-
iar experience for the maiority
person forced to spend the
greater part of his life within four
walls it is- a very special event!

selves. The one which proved
most popular with the mem-
bers of the staff of the Recre-
ation Department was that of
a party where the shut-ins
could be brought in together
for an hour or two to enjoy the
society of one another, to get
into new surroundings and see new faces.

Our first problem was to secure the names of
all the shut-ins in Decatur. This was done by
sending letters to the ministers of all the churches,
the Old Age Pension Office, the Family Welfare,
and the nursing homes, and by announcing the
plan in the newspapers asking that the names of
shut-ins be sent to our office. The names of about
200 individuals were secured in this way. A card
file was started containing the name and address
of each person, as well as his physical condition—
whether bedfast, on crutches, or blind.

of us.

The First Party

We decided to start with a Halloween party and
began making plans immediately. The large ball-
room in the Masonic Temple was secured free of
charge. This was spacious enough so that the
wheel chairs and stretchers could be placed ad-
vantageously for all to see the entertainment. Since
the dining room was located near by, refreshments
could be easily secured. All equipment in the din-
ing room was placed at our disposal.

With the place for a party secured, the next
step was the issuing of invitations. These were
written on regular government postal cards and,
to add a touch of gaiety, a Halloween sticker was
pasted on it. A note on the bottom of the invita-
tion asked the recipient to call the Recreation
Board office if he needed transportation. When
the calls came in we checked with the individual’s
physical handicap in order to determine the kind
of conveyance to be sent. We discovered that some
were unable to ride in an ordinary car but must do
their traveling on a cot or stretcher. So we placed
our. problem before the undertakers of the city,
and they generously offered the services of'their
ambulances. Business men and women were called
on for the use of their cars. We requested men
drivers for in most cases the guests would have to
be helped in and out of the cars; in some cases
they must be carried. Nurses would accompany
the children from the hospital.

With the invitations on their way, we set about

(Continued on fagc 524)

RECREATION

Photo by Jack Gerber

For Laymen Only!

By MARGOT AUERBACHER

GROUP OF TEEN AGE boys and girls who be-
A came so adept at identifying mineral forma-

tions that their parents had to form a mineral
club in self-defense-a fifteen year old girl who has
become an expert on rocks—a lawyer who spe-
cializes in astronomical studies—these are a few
of the members of the Minneapolis Science Mu-
seum Society.

The Society is made up of a number of clubs,
each stressing a different hobby, ranging from
aquariums to minerals. The members of the vari-
ous clubs elect their own officers, develop their
programs, and use the facilities of the science
museum in the Minneapolis Public Library. All
the clubs are under the supervision of Milton
Thompson, library museum director.

A state museum, a state university, five colleges
offering scientific courses — and the Science Mu-
seum Society, too! But the Society competes with
none of these for its appeal is directed toward
laymen and elementary school children in Min—
neapolis. .

Throughout the organization, the family ap-

DECEMBER 1943

 

--._._,
.. W -. .z.- 7

Courtesy New York City Park. Department

proach is stressed. Mem-
bers of the various clubs
often bring “Uncle Will”
or “Cousin Miranda” in
the hope that the Society
may gain another mem-
ber to add to its con-
stantly growing list.

But size is not an es-
sential element in the
success of the clubs within
the Society. In fact, Mr.
Thompson feels that some
of the smaller groups do
more toward making the
members express them-
selves and feel that they
are integral parts of the
organization than do the
larger ones.

In spite of his sonorous
title, Milton Thompson is
a young man with ideas,
and, of course, a hobby.
His hobby is birds and he
frequently lectures to the Bird Club of the Society.

The lecturers and instructors who volunteer
their services to the various clubs are always well
versed in their fields. Here they have an oppor-
tunity to indulge in their favorite hobby and at the
same time assist and instruct others.

One of the special interest groups afiiliated with
the Society is the Amateur Astronomy Club which
presents regular lectures on astronomy, has a sec—
tion devoted to making telescopes, and conducts
held trips for stellar observation.

Fourteen balanced aquariums in the Mammal
Room of the Museum may sound like an expert
juggler’s best trick, but it is really a part of the
project of the Aquarium Club. The club stresses
breeding, raising and care of aquarium fish and
plants and takes great pride 'in the balanced
aquariums.

Mr. Thompson takes special interest in the Bird
Club which conducts a course of lectures each year.
Believing that “one picture is worth a thousand
words,” he often illustrates the lectures with
pictures and slides.

Nature work for children is sponsored and
supervised by a Parents Club.

The Geological Society of Minnesota has opened
its doors to Society members and they hear lec-
tures on geological subjects, a large percentage of
them conducted by geology professors at the Uni-

(Contimted on page 523)

“Ea...

 

503

Recreation Behind Barbed Wire

By NOEL BARBER

T STALAG 203 they call him “Treasure.” He
is a quiet little man and when he has work

to do he' goes off alone to the quietest place
he can find. There he settles down with old
clothes, a lot of paper, the cardboard from food
parcels, bits of rope and string hoarded avidly by
prisoners, packing cases too, and maybe a pot or
two of paint or some boot black. Scissors and
pins. Needle and thread. Patience.

The men of Stalag 20B know then that a new
production by the camp’s dramatic society is on
the way. They know, too, that when it is staged
it will be good; that, quite apart from the acting,
the costumes and scenery will be' as perfect as any
in a prison camp—thanks to “Treasure.”

The last news I had of his work was about the
Christmas pantomime which he “dressed.” He
made the stage clothes out of old shirts and paper.
The wigs for the “girls” of the chorus were
fashioned from rope hemp normally used for bind—
ing pipes in the camp. He unravelled the rope,
made it into wigs, dyed the “hair” different shades,
and then marcelled it. .

He is typical, this “Treasure,” of the men be-
hind the scenes on the stages of prison camps. In

being played. It comes from a fully-fledged or-
chestra which in less than a year evolved from two
young men who gave a piano and violin recital in
a barrack room. British soldiers sit down now in
the F ort’s Little Theater, “a gem of cardboard and
distemper” with red plush curtains draping the

stage.

The seats of the theater ‘are numbered and re—
served. There are printed programs, and the
players wear a special uniform—they made their
ties from the tails of their shirts. The program
includes “The Unfinished Symphony,” the over-
tures to Hansel and Gretel, and Die Fledermaus.
The orchestra has six violins, a viola, double bass,
flute, oboe, two Clarinets, three trumpets, a trom—
bone, euphonium, and drums.

Fifty miles or so away live the 2,000 men of
Stalag 21A. Here too there is a complete orches-
tra, and now they have produced their own musi-
cal show, “Tulip Time.” One man. wrote the
lyrics, another the music. The printed program
was as professional as a West End theater pro-
gram—~and a better value.

From all the camps the news is the same. The
world’s a stage, and food boxes and packing ma-
terials are being turned into autos,
furniture, or grandfather clocks
for baronial halls.

The Kneodler Galler

exhibition of art wo
war in enemy priso
drawings and crayon
Otlags all over Ge
interpretation of v

all the camps the men look to the stage with its
color and music and laughter to paint for them the
make-believe world of yesterday and tomorrow.

Materials available are negligible. The “props”
just do not exist. Sometimes there isn’t even
a script. But somehow they find the way,
somehow they get the materials. If a man
has the spirit, he can always find something
to do in Germany, whether it be acting,
music, gardening, football, or needlework.
But the spirit must be there, the determina—
tion to triumph against adversity. Otherwise
the whole fabric of this unreal existence, with
its patches of hopeful brightness, crumbles.

If one could take a tour of the theaterland
of the barbed wire world, and then another
tour of the sports arenas, the gardens, the
handcraft workshops, the spirit of these men
would be seen.

There are about 9,000 men in 20A. In one

corner of this little town—Fort 13—music is

504 RECREATION

There is escapism here; there
are old songs men sang by their
firesides, after a game of football,
or in their bath. The men sing

 

ncion recently held an
by British prisoners of
. Water colorsI pencil
were contributed from

ere is one prisoner's

In the prison camps of Germany. British war
prisoners have created their own fun out of
such "props" as a bit of string and a pack-

ing box. Here is the story of their barbed
wire world told by a well known English
journalist who joined the Royal Air Force.

 

them again or listen while the actors sing them,
and they join in the choruses of stage shows which
lighten and color a drab, grey life.

Many of the camps like serious music, for
though some prefer to play or listen to the music
of the day, just as many listen to Bach, Beethoven,
and Mozart. It is oddly ironic that prisoners from
Britain should love so much the music of their
captors. Oflag 613 has the biggest symphony or-
chestra, with fifty members. They play full length
symphonies and have even given joint orchestra]
and choral works. Each of their concerts has to be
given six or seven times so that all can hear it.

Where do all these musical instruments come
from? And the orchestra parts? And the scripts
for the plays and the make-up materials? They
come from the Red Cross, which not only sends
out standard food and medicine parcels, but with
its Own particular ingenuity, sends as often as pos-
sible standard musical parcels as well. The in-
struments range from mouth organs to trumpets,

and a number of complete orches-

tras have reached the bigger camps

' despite the serious shortage of
musical instruments.

Sport comes next on the list of

hobbies that keep men happy.

Everything from table tennis to

tivities at his camp.

 

 a. .373» u-

Courtesy British Information Service:

DECEMBER 1943

international football matches take place in the
camps. All sorts and all kinds make up the teams.
Professionals who used to thrill the crowds on
Saturday afternoons play side by side with men
who only kicked a ball around on their lunch hour.
They all have their sport, for there is not a single
prison camp in Europe to which Sports sets have
not been despatched.

Equipment goes in special bundles, containing
sufficient materials for a hundred energetic soldiers
to amuse themselves. The bundles include every-
thing from footballs and cricket sets, and all- the
clothes for the game, to table tennis tables and
waxed thread for repairs.

So they play their sports and at the same time
keep themselves fit without the tedium of organ-
ized exercises. The seriousness men attach to the
big camp matches makes an interesting psycho-

'logical point. The great peacetime sports teams

with their thousands of followers may be far away,
but in the camps are crack teams with fans just
as ardent, and men write home about the prospects
of international matches in the camps.

Sports grounds are often a problem, but the men
make their own, and if the full-size pitch is not
available, they change the game to suit the ground.
At one camp the needle matches are indescribably
keen—and slightly unorthodox—~since half a
dozen old trees grow in the middle of the pitch.
But they don’t stop the game.

To some men, of course, sports and outdoor ac-
tivities make no appeal. They look forward to spend-
ing their evenings “making things.” There are few
tools, almost none of the materials normally needed
for handcrafts, yet the results are astonishing. The
wood comes from packing cases. It is shaped by pa-
tient hands that wield a worn-down penknife or
maybe an old razor blade—and a razor blade has
to be old before men stop shaving with it!
The finished article is stained perhaps with
bootblack, or paint made from a mixture of,
distemper powder and sardine oil.

So one could go on for page after page, for

the ingenuity of man knows no bounds. If he
wants to amuse himself he will—somehow.

Stressing the value of recreation for Axis
prisoners interned in this country the New
Y ork Times says: “Morale of prisoners of
war in an internment camp means the differ-
ence between a troublesome (and a smooth-
running camp. A high morale in prisoners
makes it possible to run a camp with fewest

personnel, thus aiding the manpower short-
age problem.” '

505

Symphony Concerts in Houston Parks

have for a number of

years enjoyed symphony
concerts at Miller Theater in
Hermann Park, with a large
part of the expenses met
through free will offerings.
Because of the success of this
venture a similar plan was at-
tempted for some of the neigh-
borhood parks, and $5,000 was
set aside for the purpose by the City Manager in
his 1943 budget for the Parks and Recreation De-.
partment. The item was approved by the Mayor
and Councilmen, as was the plan of having free
will offerings.

Thus municipal symphony concerts in Houston
became a reality. Collections amounted to $2,627.68,
leaving a delicit of $3,300 to be covered by the
Symphony Society. Eight concerts were played
in the neighborhood parks and nine at Miller Thea-
ter. The fact that the orchestra was kept intact for
these concerts made it possible to arrange for four
concerts for army camps including one at the
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas for
which the musicians donated their services.

The eight neighborhood concerts were played at
parks serving the central, north and east and west
sections of the city, one of which is populated pri-
marily by Mexican citizens and a second by
Negroes. It was felt that the Miller Theater con—
certs were adequate to the needs in the south end
_ of the city as well as of music lovers throughout
the community.

CITIZENS of Houston,Texas,

I

The concerts for colored citizens at Emancipa-
tion Park were well organized and very successful
from the point of view of having an appreciative
audience. The audience at Eastwood Park was
practically as large as that at Miller Theater. At
all concerts there was not only a large audience of
adults but of very young children and of young
peOple from six to eighteen years of age. Many
encores were played. Toward the latter part of
the season an educational feature was introduced
into the intermissions with demonstrations of dif-
ferent types of little-known instruments in sym-
phony orchestras. Many children asked to be per-
mitted to look at the instruments and to be given
information about them.

506

Last summer the citizens of Houston
had the privilege of listening to
municipal symphony concerts in the
parks. They were presented. under
the ioint auspices of the Parks and
Recreation Department and the Hous-
ton Symphony Society. at Miller Thea-
ter in Hermann Park and at a number
of the city's neighborhood parks. '

In several of the parks a
show of hands was asked of
those _who had gone to the
concerts at Miller Theater dur-
ing preceding summers. The
results showed that the neigh-
borhood audiences were prac-
tically new and that the con—
certs in neighborhood parks
were important for the cultural
development of the city as a
whole. Many people said they were hearing sym—
phony concerts for the first time and were enjoy—
ing them.

At one park there was a group of boys of “gang”
age who, as the orchestra gathered, seemed bent
on making trouble. The orchestra director and
some of the members of the orchestra talked and
joked with them and tried to challenge their inter-
est but with little h0pe of success. To their amaze-
ment these boys sat in the front row and listened
attentively throughout the concert and at the close
they threw their hats in the air with a cheer. The
sequel of this story is interesting. This particular
group of boys had always made fun of one boy in
the park building who enjoyed playing classical
music on the piano and they had made every effort
to thwart him in his "playing. One. afternoon fol-
lowing the symphony concert the gang asked this
boy musician to play for them and listened to him
with apparent re5pect. Their curiosity concerning
good music had been aroused.

The programs for the neighborhood concerts
were in every way similar to those presented at
Miller Theater with the single omission of long
symphony movements. All numbers played were
classical, with some of a lighter character. All the
selections had been played during the winter
season.

As a result of the neighborhood concerts the
oflice of the Symphony Society reports many tele—
phone calls from pe0ple who heard the orchestra
this summer and want to know where to get
tickets for the winter concerts in the city audi-
torium. The symphony director is convinced that
although it will not be accomplished in a season——
or two—neighborhood concerts are the key to
great symphony orchestras and therefore to great

(Continued on page 523)
RECREATION

 

N HY IS BOWLING one of the most popular
w recreation activities among girls and women
of Wyoming Valley P”———a question asked
me over and over again. It is a highly organized
sport, expensive for the average business and in-
dustrial girl and scheduled at 6:00 o’clock in the
evening, the dinner hour, which would seem to be
the most inconvenient time.

There is no doubt that it is popular, but I am
still trying to find the answer after personally con-
tacting and organizing 275 girls into leagues, some
experienced bowlers, some appearing on the alleys
for their first fling with exclamations of “How
heavy the ball is!” “Why does it always go down

. the gutter!” “How many sticks are there at the

end of this thing!” or, “I think I’ll quit, I’ve
broken all my fingernails l”

After returning from a fall vacation, the bowl-
ing organization meeting was the first to be con-
sidered. It was called to order on a Monday night
with some thirty girls present. On the agenda
for the evening were where, what (ducks or regu-
lations), and when. The where and what proved
easy, but the when, putting it mildly, was ahead-
ache’.

Jane was busy with Red Cross on Monday

DECEMBER 1943

By IVA G. REYNOLDS
Playground and Recreation Association

of Wyoming Valley

night, yet she must bowl in the league that could
only bowl on Monday because of a card club. Peg
had fifteen girls “signed up” to bowl but they worked
cross—shifts and could they bowl their games in
the afternoon? (Promptly vetoed.) “You get bet-
ter scores when you bowl alone and when the op-
posing team is not around.” Mary wants to bowl
on Tuesday night, but has never bowled before.
The other girls have had experience and so on
and on. Result—several teams—Trulays, Bowler-
ettes, Kaydettes, Victories, and at last in despera-
tion a rather hesitant statement, “I’ll take care of
it from here on. You will get your schedules in
the mail and start bowling next week.”

The next day the yellow section of the telephone
directory was in demand, calls to factories, stores,
and industries to get the right team to complete a
league. One uses diplomacy plus when one tries
to contact girls during their business hours, and
after you make the contact, you hold your breath
until you sell your bowling ideas—that every girl
wants to bowl, and teammates can be picked out
of thin air, and of course they will enjoy the game
most in the league with a vacancy.

The leagues were eventually organized, seven of
them, 36 teams and 275 girls. The first group
bowls on Monday night. (No dinner for the super-
visor, who also works until 5 :00, because the girls
start rambling in at 5 :45 to take their places on the
alleys.) Is it worth the effort? Just drop in at the
Eagles or the Y.M.C.A. any night and see for
yourself.

All bowlers are registered on a regular regis-
tration sheet and a fee of 50 cents is collected
from each girl. Each team may register ten bowl-
ers, and after a girl is registered on one team she
is not eligible to bowl with another. The regis-
tration fee is held in reserve by the Recreation
Association until the final games are played, and

- then used to buy awards for the winning teams.

Bowling score cards are placed at the alleys for
reporting game results and are mailed to the rec-
reation ofhce by the captain of the winning team
immediately after each game. The high scores,
number of games won and'lost, and complete rec-

(Continued on page 526)

507

What They Say About Recreation

11 ECREATION MEANS RELAXATION, and this is
R often as restful as hours of sleep. If recrea-
tion is interesting, it gives opportunity to
forget cares and worries and gives a chance for
bodily activity that is lacking for many people in
their work.”—Dr. Helen Ball.

“A nation at war must see to it that its people
get healthful recreation, diversion and relaxation
to promote health and morale.”—From the Sur—
geon General of the United States.

“Recreation includes all the beautiful skills.
crafts and hobbies that human beings can practice,
on and up to the finest of the fine arts. I call this
the Higher Recreation.”—L. P. Jacks.

“Throughout the world’s history the wars of the
people—wars for liberation and against oppression
—have been marked by songs reflecting the in—
domitable will to freedom of the common man.”—
From Songs of 11/] any lVars.

_____.

“Recreation now, as always, has these functions:
to add zest and satisfaction to life; to bring re-
lease of tensions; to stimulate better family rela—
tions; to release and set in motion creative ex—
pression.” ———- National Congress, Parents and
Teachers.

“To explore what you desire, to know what you
find, and to apply what you experience, is recrea—
tion.”—Eleanor R. Daley.

“The greater the national emergency or depres-
sion, the greater the need for recreational activities
which will re-create instead of ‘wreck—reate.’ ” —

Paul W. N esbit, Director of the Colorado Nature
Recreation Camp.

“The purpose of social get—togethers at this
time is not to ‘Outdo the Joneses' but thoroughly
to enjoy the freedom of friendships and of speech
and activities that is ours in this great country.”—
Louise Priee Bell in Parties in Wartime.

“You cannot classify recreation. It is not an
activity or a type of activity—it is an attitude. It
is your response to what you are doing. It is a
way of life.”—G. Ott Romney.

508

“Mature judgment will tell us that recreation is
significant only when it follows a period of
dynamic activity, that entertainment is fun only in
small doses. The new leisure, therefore, must in-
clude the opportunity for creation work.”—From
Proceedings of the National Education Associa-

tion.

“Recreation for workers in industries should be
an integral part of recreation for other members of
the community. Workers may have special recre—
ational needs because of the hours or nature of
their work, or for other reasons, but recreation for
them should be part of the general stream of
community recreation.”-—From S pare Time, a

war Asset for War Workers.

“Anyone who is interested in means for releas—
ing tension must be as interested in creative and
diverting recreation as in periods of let-down and
repose. The crying need for our society, however,
is that the heralded recreation shall have in it lots
of fun and jollity to offset the seriousness of our
work.”———Josephine Rathbone in Relaxation to the
Rescue. ‘

“Recreation and diversion are as necessary to
our well—being as the more serious pursuits of life.”
——Brighom Young.

“The problem of public recreation will not be
solved until each local area has its playground for
small children and also large playfields conveni-
ently located for 'the use of older persons inter—
ested in athletic and other outdoor games.”—
Jesse F. Steiner in Recreation and M orale.

“Wherever thousands of new workers and new
families move in, recreation is a ‘must’ on the list
of community needs. The pressure of strange sur-
roundings, or overcrowding, and of speed—up in
industry threatens the morale, productivity, and
health of war workers. Unless they can get whole-
some recreation and relaxation for themselves and

their families, their continued efficiency is greatly
handicapped.”—Panl V. M cN utt.

“Play makes the child into a man and keeps the
man a child, growing and improving all his life.”
—Clzildliood Interests.

RECREATION

How Far Are We Contributing to Morale?

 

Courtesy Austin, Texas, Recreation Department

By HARRY D. EDGREN

ANY OF THE EXPERIENCES that make a differ—
M ence in whether a soldier adjusts to army
life or not have their origin back in his
civilian experience. Army psychiatrists say, for
example, that young men who have been tied to
their mother’s apron strings and whose parents
have made all their decisions have a difficult time
responding to the demands of combat. Where
soldiers have competed as children in dangerous
physical sports, army men say that it is unneces—
sary to sensitize them to danger to prevent nervous
disorders. Others stress the importance of inter-
ests and hobbies and a knowledge and belief in
our cause as basic to emotional stability and
mental balance.

While carrying on the regular program of rec—
reation for civilians, we ought to ask ourselves
whether or not our program is actually helping the
young men and women under our influence to

DECEMBER 1943

 

The Army, in this war' is finding out a lot of
things about the man in service. Many of
these things have a great deal to do with
whether the soldier makes an adequate ad-
justment or not. Mr. EdgrenI who is Civilian
Advisor to the Athletic and Recreation De-
partment of the Army Special Service School
at LexingtonI Virginia. suggests some criteria
for determining how tar we are helping
young men and women in making the diffi-
cult shift from civilian to soldier lite.

 

make a better adjustment as they enter the armed
services.

The following set of criteria might be used as a
means of helping to determine the contribution of
our efforts in preparing young men and women
to make the shift from civilian to soldier life; and
the shift also from youth to adulthood.

I. Has he an adventurous, exploratory spirit?
This will enable him to End interest in the snow-
capped mountains of the North, or in the jungles
of the Pacific.

2. Does he have a desire to be physically strong?
Life in this war makes great demands on stamina,
agility, and endurance.

3. Has he had a good experience in vigorous
team games? Army men find that men who have
had such experience make the best adjustment.

4. Does he like to be with people? He will
always have comrades near him; an interesting
listener and a good conversationalist is an asset to
any group of men.

5. Does he have some hobbies that can be par-
sued anywhere? Some of these are reading, cole
lecting, letter writing, nature lore, astronomy,
photography. Letter writing has become a great
release for soldiers and one of the greatest morale
builders of this war.

6. Does he hhow how to swim? This has be—
come an essential in this war over water. Indi-
vidual skills in floating, treading water, sculling on
back, and endurance swimming are skills which
need to be emphasized. Saving one’s own life is
paramount when cast afloat in the ocean.

7. Does he make his own decisions and accept
the responsibility that accompanies each decision?

(Continued on page 522)

509

 

Courtesy A meriean C fry Magazine

Vanport City Extends lts School Service

ATE IN THE summer of 1942
Vanport City, Oregon, was
still a blueprint, but by

December of that year the first war worker families
were already moving into their new homes in this
Federal housing project, the largest in the United
States. \Vhen completed, the project will have
9,942 units and will house 36,000 to 40,000 people
on a once-lowland area of 647 acres outside the
city limits of Portland and across the Columbia
River from Vancouver, Washington. Hence the
name of Oregon’s mushroom city—Van from Van-
couver and port from Portland.

The only requirement for residence in Vanport
City is employment in an essential war industry of
which there are some twenty-three near by. Sev-
enty per cent of the residents work at three Kaiser
shipyards—one in Vancouver and two in the Port-
land area.

Since the Kaiser yards are employing women in
larger and larger numbers, Vanport City is known

510

By OPAL RAE WEIMAR

Former Director of Exfelicled Service '

as a “family” community and
its population has a high per-
centage of working mothers as
well as a very high ratio of children per family.

The city schools are making every effort to
meet the needs of these children of working
mothers. Under the supervision of the schools
there are six child care centers, or nursery schools.
for children from two to five years of age. These
centers are scattered over the project and are in
operation from 6 :00 A. M. to 7:00 P. M. Five—year-
old children are taken care of in five kindergartens
located at strategic points. These are open from
6:00 A. M. to 6:30 P. M.

School age children from kindergarten through
eighth grade are eligible for Vanport City’s unique
extended school service, available from 6 :00 A. M.
to 6:30. P. M.

This school program is a means of safeguarding
children who can no longer be cared for in their
homes. It has the regular school session as a

RECREATION

VANPORT CITY EXTENDS ITS SCHOOL SERVICE 511

nucleus but also involves
those hours when children
are ordinarily at home or
otherwise under parental
supervision.

In V anport City schools
run double shift sessions.
Each of the five school
buildings is equipped to care for 500 children in
the morning shift from 8:00 A. M. -to noon, and
another 500 in the afternoon shift from 12 :30 P. M.
to 4:30 P. M. The school year runs for lifty~tw0
weeks in the year.

The double shift school program provides both
complications and advantages for the extended
services program. An extended service program
must provide happy and healthful activities which
have such significant meaning for children and
provide so much in addition to the regular school
program, that children will prefer to come under
school supervision without compulsion.

Because the school is a community agency, close
to the lives of parents and children, it is in a stra—
tegic position to assume leadership in thiS'area.
But it must work closely and actively with other
agencies and with parents when planning the pro-
gram. Common protest against the operation of
child care centers is that they reduce and minimize
parental responsibility, and become a factor con—
tributing to the breakdown of family life.

If the school works closely with parents, it can
assist parents in maintaining responsibility for their
children during the parents’ working hours. Par-
ents often carry heavy loads of responsbility in
attempting to cover an eight-hour working day
with two or more hours in transportation and still
maintain homemaking and family responsibilities.
We insist that, if the schools will work closely with

parents, parental responsibility is not lessened but
can be assisted.

The schools must also work closely with such ‘

other agencies as Boy and Girl Scouts, 4-H, Y.M.
C.A., Y.VV.C.A., Camp Fire Girls, and Junior Red
Cross. The extended service program should also
cooperate with churches, the
Project Recreation Depart-
ment, the Police Department,
Office of Civilian Defense, and
other community agencies.
Such a program as this
must also be planned in co-
operation with those indus-
trial agencies who are utiliz—

DECEMBER' 1943

Oregon's newest city was under construction
when the pictures on the opposite page were
, talcen. Houses and apartments are shown in
“the upper left picture. with school facilities
in the upper right and market and ad-
ministration buildings in the lower right-
hand View. Vanport City's recreation build-
ings are shown in the lower left picture.

When Vanport City mushroomed into
being last year. the plans called for: 90l
buildingsl 6| public service buildings.
6 child care centers. a library. post
office. hospital. and theater. The city
boasts 8|8 miles of_ paved streets and Shift.
37.3 miles of paved sidewalks. 9.3 miles

of water pipes. 5'sewer pump stations.
and 69.000.000 board feet of lumber.

ing the manpower and
womanpower we are re—
leasing by care of the chil—
dren. The three Kaiser
yards and several other
war industries in this area
are doing an excellent job
of counseling and welfare
work with their employees. These industries not
only want all information on extended services and
child care but are eager to cooperate with the
school administration. They help in surveying the
needs and reporting parental reactions to school
services, and they are cooperative in advising
mothers who apply for employment not to take a
shift which will work out to the disadvantage of
themselves and their families.

At the present writing no child is eligible for
extended services unless he is enrolled in school and
his mother is working or a member of his family
is sleeping due to swing or graveyard shifts. The
present plan provides care from 6:00 A. M. to 6 :30
P. M. daily, seven days a week, because shipyard
employees work seven days and have the eighth
day off. This gives adequate care to the children
of the parents working day shift.

' Parents on graveyard shift are assisted to the
extent of day care while they sleep, but as yet
there is no night care of children too young to be
left alone from 10:00 P. M._ to 7:30 A. M. The
Housing Authority, the Project Services Oflice,
and the extended services of the school are co-
operating in an attempt to give further assistance
to parents on the swing and graveyard shifts. An
attempt is being made to regroup families in resi-
dence areas so that graveyard shift workers may
live in an area where all are sleeping in the day
time. The same adjustment is being attempted for
swing shift workers.

Parents working swing shift are virtually with-
out assistance from extended school services. Their
only time to be with their children is from about
10:00 A. M. to 3 :00 P. M., and neither the school
nor the community is providing assistance in child

care after 6:30 P. M. War
industries and the United
States Employment Services
are cooperating in counseling
mothers not to work this

The program of extended
services will vary according

512 VANPORT CITY EXTENDS ITS SCHOOL SERVICE

to the ages of the children, their interests, the time
of day, the other activities engaged in by the chil-
dren, the available space and facilities, and their
home responsibilities or lack of them. In general,
however, these objectives are kept in mind:

1. Children should never finish the day too fa—
tigued, frustrated, or overstimulated. ‘

2. Close cooperation with the School Office of
' Child Guidance should create many opportunities
for helping children to understand their new and
changed life and providing safeguards for mental
and physical health.

3. Programming should be kept flexible enough
to allow for changes readily, quickly, and easily.
This would include changes in the activities of any
individual child to make allowance for the child’s
own choice, as well as for changes in group ac—
tivity dependent on weather or holidays.

4. Long term, short term planning. There should
be long term planning of activities over a period
of five or six months, and short term planning for
the daily and weekly activities which will indicate
adjustments and adaptations. There must, how-
ever, be certain routine, such as midmorning and
midafternoon snacks, lunches, and rest periods
which are placed regularly each day.

5. A teacher should consider herself not an au-
thority for custodial care, but a guide to the chil-
dren in encouraging self-reliance and confidence,
and should act as a guide to the director of ex—
tended services in implementing the program.

6. The occupations of children during extended
service hours should approximate as far as is
practical and desirable normal healthy home ac—
tivities. The child and his family must be assisted
in maintaining the family unity.

Experimental Procedure

We have set up as an experimental plan, subject
to revisions, a procedure for the personnel of teach—
ers on extended service as follows:

 

Registrar. This teacher is a recep-
tionist, counselor, and enrollment
and attendance clerk. She meets and
counsels parents and children, en-
rolls children, checks attendance
daily, checks again regular school
attendance, and reports to parent if
child has missed extended service.
She also notes if the child should
contact a school nurse or guidance
director.

F

   

The expediter receives children

PVICTORY

from the registrar and routes them to activity
areas and teachers, keeps teachers supplied with
material and equipment, and may suggest activi-
ties. She meets parents for counseling, and takes
over direction of any child who needs special care.

The activity teachers are in direct contact with
children and in charge of group activities. On their
discernment, judgment, and direction depends
successful guidance of the-children. The general
character of their activities will be drawn from
their own resources, plus planning with the ex-
tended services coordinator.

A supply clerk handles all materials and equipment.

The coordinator insures uniformity of procedure
in extended service, correlation with school activi-
ties, and cooperation with outside agencies. The
success of Vanport City in making a significant
contribution to the field of extended services de-
pends largely upon the vision, grasp, knowledge,
initiative, and ingenuity of the coordinator.

The welfare of children can easily become one
of the casualties of this war. Only by joining
forces .can schools, parents, social agencies,
churches, health and recreational workers insure
that the children of! working mothers will receive
the physical and educational care they need to
develop into useful American citizens.

 

An interesting item about the housing of work-
ers in the Kaiser shipyards comes from an issue of
Public Housing. The item, which describes the
speed with which dormitories are being con-
structed, reads as follows:

“A swamp transformed into occupied war homes
in 39 days! That is the sort of technical ingenuity
which the urgency of a war-distorted situation de—
mands of public housing officials today.

“That is the record of the Vancouver Housing
Authority in moving the first work-
ers into a 2,000 unit dormitory for
shipbuilders. It was a race against
time, for the housing shortage was
already hampering production of
merchant ships.

“The swamp was the only avail-
able site close enough to the Kaiser
shipyards. About a half—mile east of
the yards, the dormitory eventually
will be connected with the shipyards
by means of a 20-foot boardwalk.
This will permit all occupants to
walk to work.”

    

RECREATION

Community Center for Old Timers

INCE 1931 when public assist-
ance for the destitute aged was
first inaugurated in New York

City, social workers in the Depart-
ment of Welfare have been eSpecially cognizant of
the fact that old pe0ple needed something more
than mere cash grants sufficient to cover their
physical needs. They have realized that loneliness
and a lack of recreational opportunities are per-
haps the most difficult problems faced by the great
majority of those reaching their three score and
ten mark, regardless of whether or not these men
and women are financially dependent. They have
realized also that these problems are aggravated in
any large city where the population seems to be
ever on the move and where it is often difficult
even for young people to find’a permanent niche
for themselves or a sense of belonging in any given
community.

It was for this reason, therefore, that the Depart-
ment of Welfare Opened its first Old Timers Club
early in September, as an experiment in extending
its services beyond the mere granting of financial
assistance to the older men and women on its rolls.

Officially known as the William Hodson Com-
munity Center, in honor of the late Welfare Com-
missioner William Hodson who met a tragic and
untimely death last January while on a govern-
mental mission, the Old Timers Club was in reality
an experiment for, although the need for compan-
ionship and recreation for old people who are not
institutionalized was recognized by social workers
all over the country, nothing concrete had ma-
terialized to meet this need. While thousands of
projects had been set up in the interest of children,
teen agers, servicemen and other groups, there was
practically nothing in opera-
tion for old persons which
might have served as a work-
ing model for the Depart-
ment of Welfare in estab-
lishing its Old Timers Club.

The Department was also
handicapped by a lack of
any funds earmarked for a
project of this kind. Lack-
ing money, personnel, and
even a suitable building in

DECEMBER 1943

By LEO ARNSTEIN
Commissioner of Welfare

New York City

The October 29th issue of Better Times
tells of an experiment conducted by the Wel-
tare Department of NewYork City in estab-
lishing a community center for elderly peo-
ple. Through the courtesy of Better Times
we are reprinting this interesting article.

Readers of RECREATION will recall the ac-
count ot a somewhat similar experiment. in-
volving the Friendly Club of Birmingham.'
published in the November issue. We hope

that other groups carrying on activities of
this kind will report them to the Association.

which to house such an experiment,
it was decided not to wait for more
favorable conditions but to start in
a small way, using everything avail-
able to make the club a going and growing concern.
Welfare Center 46, located at 2436 Webster Ave-
nue in the Bronx, was chosen as the logical office
in which to start the club as there were more than
three thousand 'old persons on the relief rolls in
this office. There was, too, a one-story frame
building adjacent to this center, which had for-
merly been used by the Work Projects Adminis-
tration, and the Department was able to negotiate
the loan of this for its new venture.

Under the leadership of Harry Levine, adminis-
trator of Welfare Center 46, the staff adopted the
Old Timers Club as its own and showed not only
imagination but great resourcefulness as well in
establishing a much needed service for the aged
without expending any city money in so doing.
In their routine day-to—day job, staff members had
come in contact with elderly persons receiving
financial assistance from the Department. They
had made friends with many of these old men and
women living alone on marginal incomes in fur-
nished rooms or in small apartments and they rec-
ognized the social gap that existed in their lives.
They were doubly anxious, therefore, to have a
hand in bridging this gap.

Working after hours and over week ends, the
staff completely redecorated the old VVPA build-
ing, raising a fund of $100 among themselves to
purchase furniture, drapes and pictures. They
were able to stretch this money by utilizing their
own skills in carpentry, painting, art work and
sewing. When the club was officially Opened on
September 2 more than 350
old age recipients dropped
in for the ceremonies. They
found a Spacious room for
lounging and games and an-
other room, equally large,
fitted up for vocational and
educational programs.

The club is open daily
from 1:00 to 5:00 RM. and
regular classes are held there

(Continued on page 528)

513

   

Courtesy

ul Furnish the Boy!”

By A. A. REMINGTON
Y. M. C. A.

Hutchinson. Kansas

’1 I—IY SHOULD I CONTRIBUTE? I furnish the
boy!” That was the reply of a father
to a solicitor who wanted funds to carry

on the program of a worth—while community boy

organization.

Those who are dealing with boys and girls these
«lays realize that far too many fathers and mothers
take this attitude of turning young people over to
the community for education, recreation, disci—

pline, guidance. They themselves are then free t0“

go their own way, not only in their working hours
but in their leisure time as well. A much larger
percentage of parents nowadays can afford to help
pay the bill for the leisure—time activities of their

514

Madison Square Boys’ Club, New York City

 

In Hutchinson, Kansas. the
Y.M.C.A. goes all out for
its iunior members— |.500
boys and girls from grade
school through senior high

 

children, but it is still a matter of
slow education to show them their
reSponsibility.

The Board of Directors of the
Hutchinson, Kansas, Y. M. C. A.
were convinced that all boys and
girls of the community should
have the benefit of the service and
program of the “Y;” These di-
rectors believed that children
whose parents are able to pay
membership fees but are not in-
terested should not be sacrificed
because of that lack of interest.
They had the conviction that chil—
dren from poorer homes, from
broken homes where money is
scarce, should not be made to feel
they were the subjects of charity
by “giving” memberships to them.
Furthermore, they felt that the
time of the boys’ secretary could
be spent more profitably in trying to find out how
the “Y” might serve the boy rather than in per-
sonal interview to find out how much money the
boy or his father could pay.

These facts were all faced and studied by the
members of the “Y” Boys’ Committee and Board,
and two years ago it was decided to try out the
plan of complete elimination of all money fees for
boys’ and girls’ memberships. In this way the
child of well-to-do parents and the child of limited
circumstances are on equal basis.

A statement of purpose and an agreement to
c00perate in making the Y. M.C.A. of most value
to all boys and girls is studied and signed by the
boy or girl member and the parent. The childin-
dicates those activities in which he is most inter-
ested and is assigned to participation in those
groups. He may add other activities if he wishes
or may drop what he is doing, but stress is laid
upon good attendance and completion of a project
once it is started.

\Vith the announcement ,of this program over
two years ago, a gradually increasing number of

RECREATION

“I FURNISH THE BOY!” 515

boys and girls have become affiliated with the
Y.M.C.A. until about 1,500 now hold member-
ship. Parental cooperation is only fair, and un-
fortunately during the past year a depleted staff
has made it more difficult for the “Y” to initiate
contacts between the boys’ secretary and parents.

It is obvious that all of these 1,500 youngsters ,

cannot be served by one building and staff at one
time. Some of them, in fact many of them almost
live at the “Y” during the open hours. Others
come only for specific activities. Some attend only
during the school months while'others come only
during the vacation periods. Once a boy or girl
qualifies as a member he knows that he can always
have the privileges through his high school years
provided his conduct is not out of line. During
two years only one boy has been wholly barred
from membership.

The Activities

The members are classified as grade, junior' high
or senior high, and there are several periods each
week for recreational swimming and gymnasium
activities. Those who can not swim are given be—
ginners’ lessons during the year and in special
“Learn to Swim” schools in the early summer.
From time to time good swimmers are given ad-
vanced training and life saving instruction. Simi-

lar opportunities for growth and advancement are '

provided in gymnasium activities and other phases
of boy and girl interests. From better qualified
members, junior leader groups of both boys and
girls are recruited for various kinds of helpful
service and are given extra periods for instruction
in skills and in the background of what the “Y” is
trying to do for its members.

Archery and rifiery groups are given careful
adult leadership, and boys are encouraged to make
their own archery equipment. Weekly handcraft
for grade and junior high girls includes clay model-
ing and original crayon art work on muslin for

tray cloths and similar purposes. Basketball leagues -.

for junior and senior high boys attract a couple of
hundred boys. In good weather group hikes for
both boys and girls provide opportunities for out—
of—door games and nature study.

A number of younger girls’ choirs have been
trained for holiday seasons, especially Easter and
Christmas. The girls sing at the hospitals, over
the radio, at the Farm Home for Old Folks. Their
white robes add to the effectivenesss of the pro—

grams and give the girls an added feeling of
service.

DECEMBER 1943

Indoor Camping

An interesting program experiment has been
working out very satisfactorily with about I 50 girls
from nine to fifteen years of age. This is the “One
Day Indoor Camp” conducted on each Saturday
from 10:00 A.M. to 3:00 P. M. The girls are
divided into five groups according to their ability
to swim—-—the Pollywogs, Tadpoles, Frogs, Fish,
and Flying Fish. There 'are two periods in the
morning and two in the afternoon. The girls all
bring their lunches and assemble in the gym for
the picnic lunch and a sing—song. Each girl and
each group have a swim period, a gym class, a
period for handcraft work, one for Indian Sign
Language, and a storytelling hour. A check room
is maintained so that the girls do not have to care
for wraps and lunches. Senior high school girls
lead the groups and help with the activities.

The program of each activity is conducted by a
trained adult leader. Because this program is on
Saturdays, we are able to secure school teachers
to assist. Mothers who are employed in defense
industries find this Saturday camp helpful in pro—
viding recreation for their young daughters for a
large part of the day.

This winter program is concluded at the end of
March, and an out-of—door program initiated with
hikes and picnics. Spring plants and liowers, the
first birds to arrive, and other nature subjects are
included in the spring program.

Another community which has taken steps to
meet the needs of its young people is Howe, Indi—
ana, a town of about 800 people. In the middle of
the business district is a store with an orange front.
Above its double doors is an impressive orange
and black sign which reads, “Howe Recreation
Center.”

This is Howe’s special center for boys and girls
which came into being when parents realized there
was no place where their children could “just sit
around” and enjoy one another’s company over a
dish of ice cream or a bottle of soda. A committee
raised $300, rented the grocery store at $10 a
month, secured furniture from townspeople, in-
stalled a juke box and an ice cream and soda bar,
and employed a local teacher as director for the
summer months when the center was open at desig—
nated hours five days a week. Game hours, hobby
classes, orchestra rehearsals, story hours, and in-
formal recreation made the center a popular one.

During the winter the center is open three days
a week and in the evenings, with volunteer leaders.

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

N LASKA; America’s Continental Frontier

Outpost,” by Ernest P. Walker. Smith-

sonian Institution. No. 13. Pp. 1—54, July 1943.
Free.

American Nature Study Society, founded in
1908, is the oldest professional organization to
promote Agassiz’s philosophy. Liberty Hyde Bailey
was the first president. Canadian Nature Study is
its official publication. Its thirty-five years of ser—
vice continues with the publication of a New Let-
ter with Dr. Richard Lee Weaver, editor, National
Audubon Center, Greenwich, Connecticut.

“Animal Tracks,” by George F. Mason. W.
Morrow and Company, New York. 95 pp., illus.,
$1.50.

“Beekeeping for Profit and Pleasure,” by Ad-
dison Webb. The Macmillan Company, New
York. 116 pp., illus., $2.

Bird Conservation Clnb, Bangor, Maine. Or—
ganized in 1914. Object: Protection and preser-
vation. Major project: A two acre fenced tract
endowed with fruit bearing plants. Grace L.
Fletcher is secretary of the club.

“Burbank, Luther: Plant Magician, by John Y.
Beaty. Julian Messner, Inc., New York. 251
pp., illus $2. 50. For young people.

Conservation. Bulletin 322,1942. Michigan De-
partment of Public Instruction, Lansing, Michi-
gan. Projects prepared by a large committee.

Conservation Center, Greenwich, Connecticut.
Opened in October by the National Audubon So-
ciety. Offers courses, trips, and other projects on
the 281 acre tract. Dr. Richard Lee Weaver, a
graduate of Pennsylvania State College and Cor-
nell University, is the director.

“Cooking, Carrying, Camping 0n the Appala-
chian Trail” is a good manual on any trail for 25
cents. S. W. Edwards, Box 37, Forest Glen,
Maryland.

“Electricity, Fundamentals of,” by Dr. Morton
Matt-Smith of Science Service. 100 illustrations.
Free from Rural Electrification, Westinghouse,
306 Fourth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

“Farm Aides.” 46 pp. pamphlet for girls. The
VVomans Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, NewYork.

516

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

Gardening. “A Sense of Humus,” by Bertha
Damon, author of “Grandma Called It Carnal”
and equally humcirous. 250 pp. Simon and Schus-
ter, New York. $2.50.

Gardens, Victory. “Have a Victory Garden.”
International Harvester Company, 180 N. Michi—
gan Avenue, Chicago. 10 cents.

“Hiking, Cam ping and M onntaineering,” by
Roland C. Geist. Harper and Brothers, New York.
$3.00. Author’s personal eXperience. Timely.

“Iceland and Greenland,” by Austin H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution No. I 5. August 1943. 100
pp. Free.

“Indies, Islands and Peoples of,” by Raymond
Kennedy. Smithsonian Institution N0. 14. August
1943. 62 pp. Free.

Poultry. “Food for Victory Campaign.” Farm
action sheets for checking management and feed-
ing. Excellent for use in clubs. Write Purina
Mills. Supply Service Division, St. Louis 2, Mis-
souri.

Poultry. A colored chart 30” x 44” showing in-

ternal organs also an 80 page guide to poultry

health. Free. Write to Dr. V. C. Fretz, George
H. Lee Company, Omaha 8, Nebraska.

Rabbits. “How to Raise Rabbits for Food and
Fur,” by Frank G. Ashbrook. Orange Judd Pub-

lishing Company, New York. 256 pp., illus. $2.

Webster Groves N atnre Study Society, near St.
Louis, organized in 1920 by Dr. Alfred A. F.
Satterthwait. Field headquarters in a nature study
lodge houses a museum assembled by members.

lVeeds and Medicinal Plants. Two excellent
pamphlets offered free to leaders. Prof. A..B.
Massey, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacks-
burg, Virginia.

Weeds for the Table. The late Dr. George
Washington Carver, noted scientist, prepared a
bulletin on common weeds for the table. This may
be obtained free from Tuskegee Institute, Tuske-
gee, Alabama. Write for “Nature’s Garden for
Victory and for Peace.”

RECREATION

  

     

' d

A

 

1“  it;

    

O

    
 

  
 

I

  

A

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

WORLD AT PLAY

CIVIL defense workers
have built a small but
complete Sports sta-
dium on the bombed
area behind St. Paul’s Cathedral in London. Every
stick and stone of the project was handled by men
on holiday leave or those with only a couple of
hours to spare. They borrowed a steam roller to
make a passable cinder track with a boxing ring,
jumping pit and grassy patch for vaulters and
high-jumpers in the middle of the track. Seats for
650 and 500 spectators, have been provided on two
platforms skirting the track. Special arrangements
make it possible to seat 4, 500 persons when fights
are billed. The plan for developing the dreary site
originated with a fire service social club in Cannon
Street.

London Stadium
on the Ruins

THE CHINESE Play-
ground Thunderbird
Boys’ Club of San
Francisco, California,
recently Opened a Funny Book Library for all the
children of Chinatown, with donations of “comic

and easy-to—read” books coming in from club
members.

Funny Book
Library

Two boys volunteer daily to act as librarians
between the hours of 2 :00 and 4 :30 P. M. For the
first three days over 300 boys and girls registered
for books, and many boys who borrowed books
have returned with donations. Forty boys, between

the ages of eleven and thirteen, comprise the mem-
bership of the Thunderbird Boys’ Club.

DECEMBER 1943

POSTWAR park de—
velopment plans have
been made to provide
Munson Park in Deni-
son, Texas, with one of the most complete city
recreation areas in the state. Funds for the proj-
ect have already been set aside by Miss Eloise
Munson, the sponsor Whose father and uncle
deeded a total of 150 acres of land to the City of
Denison.

Denison Plans Post-
war Park

ALMOST 300 children
paid for their admis-
sion to a circus at the
Union Settlement in New York City with tin cans
which went to aid the salvage drive. Many of the
performers, who ranged in age from four to four-
teen, had gone to the “real” circus when it was in
town and then put on their own version complete
with clowns, a bearded lady, the firemen’s band,
acrobats clad in long red—flannel underwear, and
“the shivering lady from the North Pole.”

Tin-Can Circus

W'IIEN the manager of
the East River Houses,
New York City Hous-
ing Authority project,
began wondering if something couldn’t be done
with the broad open macadam paving in the center
of the grounds, someone suggested shuHieboard.
In a short time the head porter painted the out—
lines on the paving and one of the maintenance
men made the sticks and discs. Shuffieboard games

Shufiieboard at the East
River Houses

517

518 WORLD AT PLAY

A

 

 

A constructive method of solving
our No. I democratic prob/em

GET TOGETHER
AMERICANS

By Rachel Davis-DuBois. Ed.D.

Director of tbe Intercultural Education Works/90p

LOUIS ADAMIC SAYS: “Dr. Rachel Davis-DuBois
is a pioneer in intercultural education and relations.
. . . This book is a practical manual for social
interaction among Americans of various racial,
national and religious backgrounds."

EDUARD C. LINDEMAN SAYS: "We have long
needed a practical handbook for persons who wish
to do something more than merely talk about our
racial and cultural tensions. Rachel Davis-DuBois
has happily filled this need.”

CLARENCE E. PICKETT SAYS: "A grass roots
book, the record of an intercultural program which
touches the emotions and the affections of humans.
. . . It is an extremely valuable contribution to the
literature of Americanization.” $l.75

HARPER 8: BROTHERS. Publishers

 

VVVV 7V V V

will go on right through the early winter until the
pavement is snowed under, and the lines and num-
bers will be repainted in the spring. The courts
attract many pCOple, especially youngsters in the
nine to fifteen age group.

Soldiers Entertain for Service Club—Out in
Dayton, Ohio, Company “C,” 846th Photographic
Battalion of Wright Field, entertained for the S01—
diers’ Service Club by producing “The Gay Nine-
ties,” a revue. The men of Company “C” are
members of a group which make training films for
the Army Air Forces and all the work on the show
was done in their “off-duty” hours. Among the
producers of “The Gay Nineties” were Lynn
Riggs, whose play, “Green Grow the Lilacs,” has
been made into the Boardway smash—hit musi-
cal “Oklahoma,” and William Saroyan, author of
“The Human Comedy.” ‘

A Check-Your-Child Playground—The Cleve—
land, Ohio, Division of Recreation maintains a
Tot—Lot Playground in the downtown city square,
principal congregating place of the pe0p1e of the
city and terminal of many street car lines. The

Wequipment consists of sheltered sand boxes, small
swings, slides, blocks and a place to keep such

h rolling stock as scooters and tricycles. .In charge

is a woman who has had experience on the city
playgrounds and assisting her are young women
volunteers, sixteen to seventeen year old high
school girls. '

New Officers for the Society of Recreation
Workers of America—The Society of Recrea-
tion Workers of America announces thefollowing
officers for 1943-1944: President, R. W. Craw-
ford, Montclair, New Jersey; First Vice-Presi-
dent, 15:. Mark Cowen, Birmingham, Alabama;
Second Vice-President, E. Dana Caulkins, West-
Chester County, New York; Secretary, Philip Le
Boutillier, Irvington, New Jersey; Treasurer, A.
E. Genter, Akron, Ohio; Members-at—Large, Milo
F. Christensen, Washington, D. C., John James M.
Syme, Ontario, Canada, George Hjelte, Los An—
geles, California, E. W. Johnson, St. Paul, Min-
nesota, and Lawrence diBenedetto, New Orleans.
Louisiana.

Playground Elections in Syracuse—More
than I, 346 boys and girls cast votes for their favor-
ite candidates at the playground elections held
under the direction of the Municipal Recreation
Commission of Syracuse, New York, last summer.

Each year, the elected officers take over the
playgrounds for one day after meeting at City
Hall to receive instructions as to their various
duties. During the campaign, many interesting
slogans and platforms were reported, with candi-
dates promising everything from a War Stamp sale
on the day they take over to building a refresh-
ment stand.

Mothers as Volunteers—At the Franz Me-
morial Playground, one of St. Louis’ municipal
playgrounds, the summer staff of three paid work-
ers was supplemented last summer by thirty mem-
bers of the neighborhood, members of the Parent-
Teacher Association at a near-by school. The
mothers, many of whom had children attending
the playground, worked out their schedules with
the employed staff and no mother worked more
than a half day each week. Duties included super-
vising the “wading pool and swings, telling stories,
giving instruction in simple handcraft, and taking
children on trips to swimming pools and other
centers.

RECREATION

  
 
 
 
   

WATCH FOR AN IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
NEXT MONTH REGARDING VOIT'S BETTER-THAN-
EVER SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED ATHLETIC BALLS!

These new, improved Footballs, basketbails, volley
balls, soccer balls, and soft balls play-better, last
longer, resist wear on rough playing surfaces, stay

inflated Ionger...thanks to synthetics, plastics, and

Voit War-born "know-how".

 

SAVE A LIFE-GIVE YOUR BLOOD TO THE RED CROSS

© SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED i -
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

Mfg. by W. J. Voit Rubber Corp.,1600 E. 25th St, Los Angeles 11, Calif.

DECEMBER 1943 519

520 WEST HARTFORD GOES TO THE COUNTRY FAIR

  

BASES AND KINDIIED EQUIPMENT . . .

designed by experts. and. by experienced will“ fro-I
modify materials and so“ direct I. schools, con-pa, ole.
Independent. mnlr wholesale.

 “noun sronrs EQUIPMENT comnuv
3" "IROU‘TI’E - FONO DU LAC. WIS.

  

The Minnehiker Yearbook—The first page
of the twenty-third Yearbook of the Minneapolis
Hiking Club contains the Service Honor Roll and
the following inscription: “In a Spirit of loyalty
and appreciation to our members at the fighting
front, we at home pledge our wholehearted cooper-
ation while hiking along toward—VICTORY.” In
spite of reduced budget and loss of members to the
armed forces and war industries, the Minnehikers
have maintained their schedule of hikes, camping
trips, skating and skiing parties.

Picnic Areas——The Union County, New Jer-
sey, Park System sent a questionnaire to the
groups which have picnicked in the county parks
asking them to suggest any improvements the Park
Commission might make to increase the enjoyment
of their outings. The suggestions all followed the
same pattern: People wanted more park areas for
picnicking easily accessible to their homes. As a
result many new picnic facilities have been pro-
vided, including additional tables, benches, and
fireplaces in existing areas as well as the develop-
ment of new areas. Union County residents may
reserve many of the picnic areas throughout the
park system free of charge. Picnic kits, including
an assortment of play equipment and first aid sup-
plies, are obtained without charge through the Rec-
reation Department of the park system.

West Hartford Goes to the

Country Fair
(Continued frown page 499)

to the prize winners and many a child proudly
wore his winning ribbon all day.

There were a number of exhibits in the High
School Auditorium' in addition to the Harvest
Show. The West Hartford Stamp Club had a big
display, and the Grange put on a needlework ex-
hibit. The Girl Scouts set up a well-equipped and
working doll hospital while the Junior D.A.R. ar-

 
 
  
     

ranged a demonstration of the Berman Body Metal
Locater. In a long corridor the manufacturers of

West Hartford had displays of their products. Also
in this corridor were exhibits by the Child Care

Center, Red Cross Nutrition and Home Nursing
sections, Hartford Junior College, and Mark
Twain Masquers. '

In the library the 'West Hartford Art League
held an exhibition of painting and sculpture by its
members. Several members.of the club sketched
people in attendance, and the money raised this
way was turned over to the Fair proceeds.

In one of the class rooms the Girl Scouts con-
ducted a “Check Your Child” center for parents
who came to the Fair. They did a good business,
too. i

A fortunetelling booth, sponsored by the East
Plant P.T.A., attracted much attention and the one
with “mystic powers” was busy all day. Down in
the gymnasium the Kiwanis Club had its “Believe
It or Not" show, starring Bob Ripley’s famous
cartoons. During the day nearly two thousand
persons attended this show which proved to be
one of the most popular attractions of the Fair.

Outside the Boy Scouts had a full encampment,
the West Hartford Fish and Game Club put up an
elaborate display, the West Hartford Grange ex-
hibited antique and modern farm machinery. The
pony ride, sponsored by the Business and Profes-
sional Women’s Club, was the highlight of the
day’s events for the children.

The athletic program included a children’s track
meet, baseball and softball games. Folk dances
were demonstrated by Greek, Scotch and Russian
groups. The final event of the day was the dance
in the High School gym, sponsored by the West
Hartford Exchange Club, attended by more than
1,000 people.

Horseshoe Players Move Indoors
(Continued from page 48?)

 

Whether they play or not, families in the neigh-
borhood are horseshoe enthusiasts. They have
always surrounded the courts with well—tended
Hower gardens and this year have planted com-
bination victory and flower gardens.

The outdoor courts are in use from 9:00 A. M.
to 10:00 P. M. seven days a week, April through
October. Intercity and interstate matches have
been played there, and although travel restriction
has curtailed these matches, it has increased local
participation.

RECREATION ‘

 1":‘3‘93W ll lo ' 7: l:  l
*2. a was». a, . «aw/Wim 5am .47
' 'ct O i I- ' “a” ’ h”?

‘5 g 2;;

0x

 

ill:    Ever READY America!

By L. B. ICELY, President

Through compulsory Physical Train-
ing in our schools, colleges and univer-
sities, let us train all of America’s youth,
from the beginning, to be robust, strong
and adept in the skills and agilities that

UT for the grace of God, and the pro-

tecting breadth of our oceans, we

might have been another France, another
Poland, or another Greece.

With this fearful lesson on the value
of preparedness still fresh in mind, let
us here and now resolve, as a nation,
that never again shall America he caught
physically unprepared and untrained.

Our national purpose in this war is to
help establish world-wide peace and
freedom.

But———-let us resolve that from this war
on, America shall be a physically fit,
ever ready people.

First—let us see that our returning
fighters are kept in good condition,
through participation in organized sports
and vigorous games, to form the nucleus
of the new, physically ht America.

DECEMBER 1943

football, basketball, baseball, tennis,

boxing, and other American competitive
sports develop.

Let us broaden the application of In-
dustrial Recreation so that all the mil-
lions of young men and women who work
in our great industrial plants may have
access to organized sports and games
that will keep them healthy and vigorous.

Let there be more golf clubs, more
tennis and badminton courts, more play
fields and gymnasiums, and organized
participation in them by more business
executives and ofiice workers.

Let there be more help for that part
of the youth of America whose only play-

-.

grounds are the sand lots of our cities
and towns.

As a vital factor in our Postwar plan-
ning let us establish new and higher
physical standards for all of America.

Let us resolve that not only our in—
dustrial and economic machinery, but
our millions of Human Machines shall
be physically equal to the challenge of
our job leaders in world restoration and
progress after the war.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and Wilson

Athletic Goods Mfg. Co., Inc., Chicago
New York and other leading cities

[Bil/son

Spon'rs' EQUIPMENT

It's Wilson Today in Sports Equipment

521

522 HOW FAR ARE WE CONTRIBUTING TO MORALE?

qutim;
Wm fbdtmguencq

A SERIES OF ARTICLES
by Lois Sager, special writer for the Dallas,

Texas, Morning News.

There are suggestions here for the many
groups which are working to discover the
basic causes of juvenile delinquency and to
provide a solution to a problem causing deep

concern.

Order a copy, at 15 cents,
from the

National Recreation Association

315 FOURTH AVENUE
New York 10. N. Y.

 

How Far Are We Contributing
to Morale?

( Continued from page 509)

Young men who are still tied to parents make
poor adjustments in the Army.

8. Does he have an interest in and a desire to
understand the background of the war and the war
aims of our enemies and our allies? Because this
is a constant topic of conversation in the Army, it
will make him a welcome member of many group
discussions as well as give apparent purpose to the
many demands made upon him.

9. Does he have an understanding of our form
of government This will help him to realize that
our cause is worth fighting for.

10. Can he be objective? This should enable
him to face all the facts and aid him in keeping a
mental balance.

II. Does he have experiences which tend to
make life full and abundant? This may mean
friends, happy home life, good church and com-
munity life, and an interesting vocation. And it
all adds up to making living worth while, and will
stimulate him to want to live. Soldiers who want
to live have a greater chance of staying alive.

12. Has he a personal philosophy of ‘life in

which God, a power greater than himself, is in-
cluded? This is eSpecially important when he is
faced with a situation beyond his comprehension.

Our ability to incorporate these criteria into
our program will determine the extent to which
we have assisted in the preparation of our youth
for life as soldiers. .If the youth under our influ-
ence measure up to these criteria, we will have
aided them not only to tolerate some of the difficult
situations of war but also to enjoy some of its
adventures.

When They Came Back

(Continued from page 497)

history. With the relative numbers of men in»
volved so much greater, the problem is obviously
much greater.

Fortunately, modern scientific research has
made great strides during the past thirty years.
Modern medical treatment involves the entire per-
sonality. Progressive doctors and hospital admin-
istrators realize that physical, mental, and emo-
tional factors are inseparable, and they are not
satisfied to give physical care alone. In the medi-
cal field it is recognized that disease may be an
expression of emotional disturbance or vice versa,
and also that a large percentage of patients do not
have organic disease. Dr. E. A. Strecker claims:

“It is not an qverstatement to say that fully 50 per
cent of the acute stages of an illness and 75 per cent
of the difhculties of convalescence have their primary
origin not in the body but in the mind of the patient.“

The percentages given by medical men vary from
the conservative 33% given by Dr. Mayo 0f the
Rochester Clinics to a high 85 per cent. Last year
more than half the beds in military hospitals in
this country were filled with nervous or mental
cases. Lt. Col. Duncan Whitehead reported be-
tween 200 and .400 cases of emotional illnesses.
every week in army camps up to November 1942..

The. values of play as a therapy and as preven-
tive medicine in keeping patients happily occupied
are now recognized by doctors and laity. Self-pity,
discouragement, the fixation of habits of invalid-
ism and dependence, which medical care and rest
treatments alone tend to create or to perpetuate,
may be counterbalanced by the constructive use of'
play under skilled leadership.

 

'Strcckcr, E. A., "Mental Hygiene,” Loose-Leaf Living Medicine,.
Vol. VII, p. 43. New York, Nelson (1929).

RECREATION

DANCING ON THE HOE 523

Dancing on the Hoe

N ARTICLE by Kate O’Brien which appeared in
A a recent issue of Britain tells what happened

in Plymouth, England, after it had been bombed.
Commenting on the spirit shown by the residents
of the city she says, in part:

“You will meet another sign on the Hoe in the
evening. You have heard of the Hoe, where Drake
finished his game of bowls while the Spaniards
waited for him. It is a wide esplanade now, green
and gray, high up overlooking the Sound. Drake’s
statue stands on the Hoe, so does the War Me—
morial of 1914-18. It is a windy place. Below it
in the harbor camouflaged destroyers are forever
on the move, and the flying boats of Coastal Com-
mand take off and land with the ease and fre-
quency of seagulls. Guns and balloons are all
around. Engines roar perpetually from Mount
Batten airdrome, and far on the horizon rises
Eddystone Lighthouse.

“Here on this remarkable stage, the Hoe, the
people of Plymouth dance now in the evenings.
After the blitz of April 1941, the people were
without a dance hall. It was Lady Astor, their
Member of Parliament for the Sutton Division,
who said: ‘Let’s dance on the Hoe.’ So they
dance, night after night in the salty, sharp air.

“ ‘I’ll be waiting in apple-blossom time,’ a little
girl was singing into the ‘mike’ for them the eve-
ning I was there; and they sang with her, gently
and'contentedly, as they waltzed. Just below them
the destroyers moved in and out, steady and noise-
less, and at their backs the emptied, broken roofs
of Plymouth stood up against the sky, waiting for
victory and reconstructionf. . .

“Plymouth is more alive than ever. It is a
good symbol of her present mood that flowers
grow on the rubble. It is a fine place to visit now.
It i’sfine to see the dancing on the Hoe, to talk
with the cheerful people and hear them explain, so
simply, what they have been through, and how
they are defeating their catastrophe. It is fine to
hear them singing, sentimentally and simply——
‘I’ll be waiting in apple blossom time.’ ”

For Laymen Only!
(Continued from page 503)

versity of Minnesota. The Mineral and Gem Club
furnishes laboratory equipment for the polishing
and cutting of agates and other stones. It also

DECEMBER 1943

SPORTS EQUIPMENT '

" ‘; For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

Equipment for all Sports

~a
' :7. _ 

u u
.I.'.
1. "

.‘- ,.

l
l  :51“. '
1..., 53:. f _

» :25..-  -- .. - .m. u. «.3,
l. .p _-

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, lnc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., ClNClNNATl, OHIO

 

conducts occasional exhibitions of precious and
semi-precious stones.

The 500 members of the Science Museum So-
ciety, whether they be amateur geologists, astrono-
mers, or botanists, all feel that their membership
brings them enjoyment and knowledge. The So-

ciety has found a way to inflict knowledge upon
laymen—and they love it!

Symphony Concerts in Housl'on Parks

(Continued from page 506)

symphonies. The attendance at the eight neigh-
borhood concerts was a conservative 5,100 people.
Collections amounted to $712.78. Neither attend-
ance nor collections were as high as anticipated,
but in view of some bad wizather and an infantile
paralysis epidemic results were most encouraging.

Four local vocalists and one violinist were in-
vited as guest soloists at the Miller Theater con-
certs. The Community Chorus of the Parks and
Recreation Department sang two numbers with
the orchestra at the final concert.

Attendance at the Miller Theater concerts was
55,000, conservatively estimated, and collections

were $1,914.90.

524 RECREATION PROGRAMS FOR SHUT-INS

TIME GROWS SHORT!

0 There isn't much time left to get
ready for Christmas on the play-
ground, in the community center, in
the church or at your club meeting—

But there's still a little time for

The Christmas Book to give you
some last minute help with your
party, ceremonial, or playlet.

So send an 50.8. for a copy todayl

. . . Price 50 cents

National Recreation Association

315 FOURTH AVENUE
New York 10. N. Y.

 

Recreation Programs for Shut-Ins
(Continued from page 502)

planning a program that would be entertaining but
not overtaxing. This was not difficult for every-
one wanted to help. Magicians from the Demons
Club offered to put on a novel show; dancers and
musicians asked to be allowed to do their part.

We felt that the refreshments were very im-
portant! A tentative menu was planned consisting
of cookies, chocolate milk, apples, and candy. Since
this was to be a community affair, the merchants,
we felt sure, would want to help, so we went to
them for the food! We were given an ample quan-
tity to take care of whatever size crowd we might
have. Favors were made for everyone.

When the big night finally arrived it was a
thrilling but touching sight to see our guests come
pouring in to the party. The staff of the Recrea-
tion Board was on hand to make everyone feel
comfortable and at case. One woman, who was
paralyzed and who had been brought in an ambu-
lance, told us it was the first time she had been out
of her room for three years. One little girl who
come from the hospital had been well taken care
of by the nurses. Her hair was freshly shampooed

and curled, and she had on new clothes purchased
by employees at the hospital since her parents were
unable to provide an outfit. One little old lady,
paralyzed so she could hardly talk, said: “You
don’t know what it means to see music made. I
have a radio and can hear it all the time, but I

can’t see it made.”

The first event proved such a success that we
decided to give a Christmas party with all the
trimmings. Again it was held in the Masonic
Temple, and a decorated Christmas tree was fur-
nished by the Masons. A Santa Claus distributed
gifts to each one present. One twenty—seven year
old young man, confined to a wheel chair all his
life, had never seen a “real, live” Santa before, and
it was evidently a very exciting event! An appro—
priate program was planned, and reports coming
back from the hospitals and shut-ins all over town
proved that the party had been very worth while.

Since these early beginnings, three parties a
year have been given for the shut-ins of Decatur
at Halloween, Christmas, and Easter. Various
organizations in the city have worked with the Rec-
reation Board in planning and conducting them.

 

Looking Forward
(Continued from page 495)

out the chief events of the past year and prognosti-
cations of things to come in the new age just ahead
of us would appeal to young people who are grow—
ing up in this transitional period. Dramatic and
musical stunts by volunteers from the young
guests will be forthcoming. And then have a guess-
ing contest around the bell theme. -A phonograph
and a few instruments giving sound effects can be
concealed’behind a screen. A cow bell, a dinner
bell, a fire engine bell, Big Ben, etc., can be rung
and the audience invited to identify them. Have
one of the boys with a taste for the nautical test
the knowledge of the audience on the subject of
ship’s bell.

If you can assemble bells, bowls, or glasses
which make a scale, have a contest and see who
can play the best tune on them. This could be ac-
companied with a narrative by the Master of
Ceremonies about the Swedish Bell Ringers, or
some appropriate story. All this will lead up to
the hour' of midnight when the room must,be
darkened and a bell rung for the dying year.
Then let sleigh bells and horns blow in the New

RECREATION

“WE ARE THE YOUTH” 525

h #Mlk/(Wf 4/057 mama/1m 5.44/5 .. J
3 BOWLING THE NEW 2-WAY .{

 

0 NEW . . . Two-Way Bowling Alleys are space saving—a complete bowling
alley that is operated by the players themselves ——— no pin boys required.

0 SENSATIONAL . . . Two-Way Bowling Alleys sell for a fraction of the cost
of regulation alleys — superbly constructed to last a life—time.

0 DIFFERENT . . . Two—Way Bowling Alleys are portable —- easily assembled

and just as easily taken apart — perfect for indoor or outdoor use.

Two-Way Bowling Alleys are now in use all over the United
States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard. WACS. U.S.O. Clubs. and "Y's."

Score sheets furnished free. through the courtesy of
Raleigh @igarettw. to all branches of the Allied Services and

U. S. 0. Centers using TWO-WAY BOWLING Alleys.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

{v

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.
Name ......................................  ...................... ..

Address .................................................. . .' ........ . .
City ...................................... .. State ................ ..

 

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

 

 

Year as the lights go up again, while everybody is'
standing and singing “Auld Lang Syne.”

Try having the dance start with old-fashioned
squares and rounds, through contemporary favor—
ites, and then a contest for illustrations of what
the dances of the future will be like.

The hostesses will have little further responsi—
bility except to see that everybody has plenty of
refreshments.

A snack bar labeled Beau Belle Inn, or some
name bringing in the bell theme would be a con—
' venient and attractive way of serving food and
beverages and of keeping the auditorium unlit-
tered throughout the evening. *

The budget will determine what kind of hOSpi-
tality shall be shown. Refreshments may consist
of punch and soda pop with cookies and ice cream
. cups, or run to something more substantial—sand—
wiches, potato salad, brick ice cream and cake,
and a hot drink—coffee or chocolate, if they are
obtainable. A bowl of punch with a base of ginger

DECEMBER 1943

ale and grape juice is almost indispensable where
there is dancing going on. Let the boys come up
to the bar and get provisions for their partners
and then return the paper dishes, or cups and
saucers if you are using them. .

The end of the party will be announced by the
Town Crier, properly dressed for the occasion,
ringing his bell up and down the room and wish-
ing all present Good Night and a Happy New
Year.

llWe Are the Youth"

(Continued from page 485)~

happen if we had a place in which to meet and
intermingle with the right crowd? Of course not.
But who is going to do anything about it? You
and only you can help us. We leave it in your
hands. _

“Taxpayers—which is the more easily replaced,
a broken chair on the morale of the youth who
breaks the Ten Commandments P”

526 EL SEGUNDO’S. RECREATIONSERVICE

WHAT IS YOUR
CITY’S SCORE?

DO you know what your city’s rating would
be on its playgrounds, playfields, and in-
door recreation facilities?

If you don’t, look for the answers to a num-
ber of important questions you might well ask
yourself in a new pamphlet, Standards for
Neighborhood Recreation Areas and Facilities,
which presents basic principles, outlines, stand-
ards, and discusses Agencies Concerned with
Recreation, the Importance of Cooperation,
and Securing Results. Price 15 cents.

A digest of this pamphlet is available under
the title, Standards—Playgrounds, Playfields,
Recreation Buildings, Indoor Recreation Fa—
cilities. Price 10 cents.

Both of these pamphlets may
be ordered from

National Recreation Association
3:5 FOURTH AVENUE

New York IO. N. Y.

I"
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
i
I
I

III-I----I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-III-II...-III-III...-III-I-I-I---------

Just Bowling
(Continued from page 507)

ords of the progress of each team can be had at a
glance at these cards. High scores and league
standings are compiled each Monday and printed
by our local papers, along with a story of the
week’s outstanding bowling news.

At the end of the season, which is the early part
of April, the Wyoming Valley girls’ bowling tour-
nament is held and is open to all girl bowlers in
\Vyoming Valley. As many as eighty or more
girls participate in this elimination tournament
which serves not only as a means to find the bowl—
ing “champ,” but as an excellent opportunity to
introduce girls from the various leagues to each
other. The sportsmanship developed during the
year is amazing. The girls even root for their
opponents !

“Why is bowling popular among girls in Wyom-
ing Valley ?” Leagues are not started until they

are properly organized, and the bowling organiza-'

tion is composed of typical American girls who
want to have fun. But your guess is as good as
mine.

El Segundo’s Recreation
Service

LSEGUNDO, CALIFORNIA, is the home of the
huge California Standard Oil Refinery and
near it is one of the large plants of Douglas Air-
craft. Since 1940, the p0pulation because of the
expansion of these two industries has risen from
4,500 to some 5,500.

There are no commercial recreation industries
in El Segundo —— not even a movie — and none is
needed because of the rich program offered by the
Recreation Commission. This Commission, which
operates the community service of the Unified
School District and the municipality, has a $12,000
budget made up of $10,000 from the School Dis-
trict, $1,400 from the municipality, and $600 from
operating income. This does not include the Oper-
ation of the Friday night community dance, which
is self-maintaining. Music for the dance is fur-
nished by a high school orchestra at a cost of $25
per evening, part of the money going toward music
and part of it to the players who are paid $1.50
each evening. It is understood that this payment
is designed as assistance in the musicians’ musical
education.

The very unusual facilities of the Unified School
District are fully used the year round for organized
community recreation activities. These include a
$250,000 swimming pool, the high school gym-
nasium, the high school night—lighted softball
fields, all of the school playgrounds and athletic
fields, and a separate year—round service commu—
nity recreation center of eight rooms. Maurice E.
W'ard, Director of Community Recreation, is as-
sisted by fifteen additional full-time and part-time
leaders. Mr. Ward is serving as Chairman of the
Recreation Victory Gardens and also of the Rec—
reation Division of the Civilian Service Corps.

One of the unique features of a highly developed
arts and crafts service is an upholsterng group,
meeting twice a week, which enrolls twenty-five
people, all the room will allow, and has a waiting
list of fifteen: Many of the chairs and settees made
by this group are valued at more than $25.

A once-a—week kindergarten play center cares
for about fifty children and is assisted by a co—
operative Mothers’ Club.

Another interesting feature is the modification
of badminton for play in a room which provides
for a short court. Three types of games of badmin-

RECREATION

CHRISTMAS AT HOME 527

ton are offered, variations and skill being created
by the use of three modifications of the badminton
racket, all of which are made in the Department’s
own craft shop. One is the standard racket with a
handle about six inches in length, which of course
limits the speed of the drive. The second'is a
modified wooden paddle which is approximately
the size of the table tennis paddle. The third game,
for the expert players, makes use of a wooden
paddle with the usual racket length handle of wood
but with a paddle striking service approximately
one half the size of a table tennis paddle. This size
racket makes necessary a very unusual swing in
serving and returning the birdie.

Christmas at Home
(Continued from page 481)

to be of very good help in encouraging singing of
them by everyone present. The radio can help
also if wisely used. But if it is allowed to pour into
our homes its many repetitions of the few carols
that are generally familiar, it is likely to lessen, if
it does not nearly destroy, our enjoyment of them
and their meanings.

Young children and even older ones and grown-
ups can enjoy very much taking part in a good
rhythm band, so simply carried on, playing for the
gayer carols. A children’s set of “orchestral bells,”
often called a xylophone, can be added to this or
be played alone with very appropriate effect. Here,
incidentally, is motive for Christmas giving of
good rhythmic and simple melodic miniature musi—
cal instruments to the children, and getting them
used musically very soon. (The National Recrea-
tion Association’s fifteen—cent booklet, Starting
and Developing a Rhythm Band, gives quite
full directions and lists of music, phonograph rec—
ords and sources of the instruments themselves.)

Remembering that the word “carol,” originally
meant dancing in a ring, we enjoy seeing the chil-
dren skip or walk with springing step to “I Saw
Three Ships,” “What Child is This?” (long iden-
titled with the tune of the old English dance,
Greensleeves) “Patapan,” “Here We Come A—
Wassailing” and other suitable carols. We might
help make up and join in simple ring-dances for
these with them. To go quietly though eagerly in
procession, bearing lighted candles, to the manger
scene or the Christmas tree or around it while
singing the French carol, “Bring a Torch, Jeanette,
Isabella,” is another happy experience, especially

DECEMBER 1943

 

DIAMOND PRODUCTS

Are On Every Fighting Front
With the Army, the Navy. the Marines'

on tanks and in airplanes . . . Diamond
Tools and Products are doing their part
to keep Uncle Sam's fighting machinery
moving forward . . . They are used on
the farm and in every essential war
industry on the home front.

We're doing our best to take care
of our customers. but war needs must

come first.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

in the dim, magical light of Christmas dawn or
twilight. This is the kind of experience that can
well become a traditional part of a family’s Christ-
mas observance.

The reading aloud of Christmas stories, legends,
poetry and plays is also an especially appropriate
part of a family’s observance, and it lends itself
well to interludes or a generous postlude of carol
singing. Of excellent books of such literature,
there are:

Come, Christmas, edited by Lesley Frost, published by
Coward—McCann, New York, $2.50

The Story of Christmas, by R. J. Campbell, D.D., pub-
lished by The-Macmillan Company, New York, $3.00

' A Christmas Book, An Anthology for Moderns, by

Wyndham Lewis and S. C. Heseltine, published by
Dent of London; American agents: E. P. Dutton and
Company, New York, $2.50

Christmas in Legend and Story, by Elva Smith and Alice
Hazeltine, published by Lothrop, Lee and Shepard,
Boston, $2.00 '

(—u

Christmas, edited 'by Robert Havens Schauffler, pub-
lished by Dodd, Mead and Company, New York, $2.50

5

8 COMMUNITY CENTER FOR OLD TIMERS

JUNIIIR 

ms & ACTIVITIES ii

the Magazine for
Y O U! ,
the Alert Elementary Teacher

The only national teachers magazine containing
so much praCtical, creative material that you can

put right to work in your classes:

Democracy in the Classroom. a new feature,
designed to help you instill ideals of democratic
living into the boys and girls under your care.

New series of articles on Music . . . Art . . .
Reading and Literature . . . Woodworking . . .

and many more.

If you are a Social Worker, Recreation Di-
rector, Leader of Children’s and Young People's
Groups, you will find abundant material each
month in Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES.

10 BIG ISSUES

ONLY $3.00
Regardless of the grade you teach or the
group you lead, Junior ARTS 8: ACTIVITIES will
give you the material you need. Every issue is
profusely illustrated and contains projects for
primary, intermediate, and upper grades. It

makes work FUN! You owe it to yourself to
obtain this helpful, usable material.

SUBSCRIBE TODAY!

Junior ARTS 8: ACTIVITIES
46”: N. Clark St. Chicago 40. III.

R-9-43

Please enter my subscription for Junior ARTS &
ACTIVITIES for 1 year, price $5.00. If I am not
satisfied, I may cancel my subscription within 10 days
after receipt of the first issue. I enclose .................... ..
or I shall remit ................................................ ..(date)

Name .......................................................................... ..

Address ...................................................................... ..

City ............................................ .. State .................... ..

Community Center for Old Timers
(Continued from page 513)

in arts and crafts, music appreciation, dramatics,
English, sewing, and other subjects. Members
who use the club as a social outlet play checkers,
chess and other table games in the club’s lounge.

That the Old Timers Club is a success is proved
by the enthusiasm displayed by its ever-growing
membership. Almost daily, members express their
appreciation, saying that they are no longer forced
to sit idly in their “furnished rooms” yearning for
someone with whom to talk. The old timers have
taken a special delight in those projects offered at
the club which have given them an opportunity to
participate in the war effort. A number of old
ladies are devoting full time to making hospital
kits to be used by wounded men while convalesc-
ing; others are busily engaged in making Red
Cross utility kits.

One old age recipient, who had been an expert
cabinet maker in his younger days, has volunteered
his services as an instructor in this art and he has
a group of oldsters turning old-fashioned furniture
into pieces suitable for the compact modern apart-
ment. The game room, as might be expected, is
always crowded and several checker and chess
tournaments have been organized which draw a
crowd of onlookers each afternoon.

Despite the fact that the Department’s policy of

.consolidating its Welfare Centers wherever possi-

ble is making it necesssary to eliminate Welfare
Center 46, the staff has already located new quar-
ters for the William Hodson Community Center
in the old Bronx Borough Hall Building. Strategi-
cally located in the center of Crotona Park, these
quarters will offer the old timers not only indoor
recreational and vocational programs but outdoor
ones as well.

Bronx House, which has been greatly interested
in the project since its inception, is cooperating
with the Department of Welfare and has made its
facilities available to a group of fifty old people
from the club who wish to take advantage of this
opportunity. Membership in the William Hodson
Community Center is not restricted to recipients
of Old Age Assistance. All residents in the North
Bronx who have passed their 65th birthday and
are not immediately able to find employment in
private industry are welcome to participate in the
educational, recreational, and vocational programs
offered there.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 529

Water Sports for Servicemen

HEN YOU THINK of Bermuda, water sports
w immediately come to mind. So the Overseas
Division of the USO lived up to tradition when it
decided to make the summer of 1943 a banner sea-
son for lovers of water sports.

Representatives of the various branches of ser-
vice cooperated in the program, and both high
ranking officers and enlisted men had a hand in
the USO water calendar. In addition to the regu—
lation A.A.U. competitive events, novel aquatic
stunts were planned for the gala interservice car-
nival which opened the season in June. These
events were Open to all men in the united forces,
as well as the women and children representing
the Bermuda Athletic Association.

Highlighting the June carnival were demonstra-
tions of log rolling and spear fishing, two unique
phases of water sports. Log rolling wasodemon—
strated by a shore patrolman, formerly a Maine
game warden who had taken part in national com-
petitions in this thrilling sport in the United States.
He is now teaching children in Bermuda the art
of spinning a huge log over the water by the pro—
pulsion of their bare feet. The stunt is safe for a
good swimmer since the usual ending for anyone
attempting the feat is a ducking!

Spear fishing was demonstrated by Lieut. Lynn
Nearpass, U. S. Navy recreation—welfare officer.
This Sport requires, in addition to water goggles, a
pair of so—called “aqua—fins,” enabling the natator
to explore the depths of the briny deep with little
effort, and a combination bow-and—arrow slingshot
used to spear the fish. Servicemen were most en-
thusiastic over this sport and Spent many hours in
quest of fish. This is another sport in which the
participants must be able to swim well.

Other novel events included a “Catch-the—Swan”
race. The curator of Bermuda’s famous aquarium
provided the swans whose wings were made fast
so they wouldn’t take to the air. The object of this
race is for Johnny Doughboy to see whether he
can swim fast enough to keep up'with the swan.

Regatta events included canoe tilting and other
laugh—getting specialties. Water safety was stressed
in a demonstration by USO staff members, as this
subject is taught regularly to servicemen in Ber-
muda and‘Red Cross certificates are awarded to
successful candidates.

As a conditioner for the opening carnival, a
novel “Swim Around Bermuda” was staged, end-

DECEMBER 1943

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES
Journal of Health and Physical Education, October 1943

Live Handballs for Dead Ones, letter from Hosmer
W. Stone and Eugene L. Colichman

Physical Performance Levels for High School Girls
Physical Fitness and the WAC, by Captain Donna I.
Niles

Monthly Bulletin, Department of Internal Affairs, Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania, October 1943

Recreational Facilities as Post-War Project, by John
W. Stoker

Parents’ Magazine, November 1943
Making Old Toys New, by Lonore Kent Kiefer
The Womans Press, N0vem'ber 1943

The Latchstring’s Out for Twenty-four Hours a
Day, by Virginia McGregor

PAM PH LETS

A Community Program for Prevention and Control of
Juvenile Delinquency in Wartime

Advance mimeographed edition, Children’s Bureau,
\Nashington, D. C.

Five One Act Plays for Radio and Stage on the Subject
of War Savings

This pamphlet and other war saving scripts are avail—
able from the Women’s Section, War Savings
Staff, U. S. Treasury Department, Washington,
D. C.

Handbook on Physical Fitness for Students in Colleges
and Universities

Federal Security Agency, U. S. Office of Education.
Order from U. S. Government Printing Office,
\Vashington, D. C. Price 25 cents

Physical Fitness Through Health Education for the Vic-
tory Corps

U. S. Office of Education, Washington, D. C.

A Reader’s Guide to Education, Books about Education
for Americans
National Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, N. W., Washington 6, D. C. Price 5 cents

Recreation and Other Activities in the All-Day School
Programs

U. S. Office of Education, Washington, D. C.
The Selection and Training of Volunteers in Child Care

Prepared by U. S. Department of Labor in coopera-
tion with Office of Civilian Defense. Publication
299. 1943. For sale 'by the Superintendent of Docu-
ments, U. S. Government Printing thce, Wash-
ington, D. C. Price 10 cents

Suggested Informal Games for School

Department of.Education, New South Wales, Aus-
tralia

Voices of Liberty. Memorable expressions on liberty and
democracy by philosophers, statesmen and writers of
all times

U. S. OFFICE} of Education. Bulletin 1941, No. 8. For
sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Wash-
ington, D. C. Price 15 cents

Young America Helps, Children’s Book List No. 2. List
of books showing what boys and girls can do to help

the war effort
Council on Books in Wartime, Inc., 400 Madison

Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. 10 copies or less,
free '

530 BALTIMORE HANGS OUT THE WELCOME SIGN

ing on June 19th, the day of the carnival. Service-
men made an imaginary swim around the island
by way of a 20-yard course at the Elbow Beach
recreation center. They were limited to no more
than 22 laps a day 440 yards, an ideal daily
workout for a conditioner.-—From information
sent by Jack P. H oulihcm, National Catholic Com-
munity Service, USO Staff, Bermuda.

 

Baltimore Hangs Out the Welcome
Sign
(Continued from page 486)
ing game, changing partners often) all these made
a contribution to the feeling of oneness.

Clear the floor. They had all been good scouts,
had stayed on the floor, and laughed through their
mistakes, so they deserved a rest. The Baton Pass
came next in the program. Batons were passed to
the right. \Vhen the music stopped with a bang,
all those holding batons were privileged to go and
sit in a certain corner with others who wore the
same number as they—either I, 2, 3, or 4. There
was a small prize for the last one caught and the
runner-up.

Competition makes parties peppy. Each of the
four teams now selected a captain. To the accom-
paniment of “Come on team,” “Don’t get excited,”
“Take your time,” “Hurry, hurry, hurry,” several
contests were run off. Relay races, dropping pea-
nuts in bottles, dramatizing songs, blowing bal-
loons all played their parts in unifying the groups.

Back together again. After this excitement, the
guests brought their chairs around the piano for a
music memory story and contest. Those who were
quick to recognize the melody were rewarded with
favors.

Patriotism. The game encouraged guests to
speak up and decide what to do next. It was a
revelation to the recreation crew as they guided
the group through the evening to observe how
they found their prime interest—patriotism. This
was especially revealed through their choices of
songs for group singing. One young woman stood
up and suggested “Let’s sing ‘God Bless America.’ ”
As their voices rang out together they seemed to

be expressing sincerely the thought uppermost in
their minds.

What, no refreshments? The tenants committee
had no money—so no money was spent! The
candy favors provided by the Recreation Depart-
ment were plentiful and helped to give a party
flavor. (As time went on and the people living in

the project expressed a desire for social get—to—

gethers, a few money-making dances were held.)

Good nightI ladies—and gentlemen. Two large
circles, one of men and one of women. were formed
for the closing number. They sang as they shook
hands and promenaded to the strains of “Merrily

\V e Roll Along.”

The follow-up. Seventy adults had been intro-
duced to the city’s Recreation Department at this
party. This general social occasion opened the way
for the organization of different types of recrea-
tion. Besides the playgrounds for children,
mothers’ clubs under trained leadership were
started in three of the projects. Social recreation,
square dancing, rug making, crocheting, music ap-
preciation, card playing, knitting, get—acquainted—
with-—the-city tours, and picnics occupied their
afternoons or evenings together. Recreation lead-
ers were placed on the playgrounds and men were
invited to join athletic activities.

The recreation leaders' field day. There are many
opportunities like this for Recreation Departments
in defense areas to come to the fore and share the
wealth of their recreational experience with those
who need it and are looking for help in adjusting
to this strange new world. This challenge will

test the very foundations of the recreation move—
ment.

A Christmas Party that Re-Creates

(Continued from page 484)
do it again,” some of us who had seen this happen

often wondered why so much enthusiasm and joy
is generated when a group of people of mixed
ages, creeds, races, and cultures share their child-
hood memories and intersperse the conversation
with bits of spontaneous humor, song, and folk
dance.

In our democracy many organizations, both
private and public, are doing valuable service in
aiding all sorts of people to begin to think in terms
of our common humanity. \Norking with the
Neighborhood-Home Festival as a group process
has made us feel that it offers these organizations
a somewhat new and effective way of supplying
that catharsis and social cohesion that is required
for daily life. The great prOphets of all ages and
religions have told us that there is an underlying
power which encompasses us and in which we are
brothers; that this is the most real thing in the
universe and powerful enough to turn all fear and
hatred into confidence and love; and yet that it is
simple enough for children to understand.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Get Together Americans

By Rachel Davis-DuBois. Harper & Brothers, 49 East
33rd Street, New York. $1.75.

HE METHODS USED by Dr. Davis-DuBoiS in her pioneer

work in intercultural education are clearly outlined in
this textbook which tells how the cultural values of the
many different lands represented in America may be
shared to the advantage of all. It is a practical manual
which recreation workers, church leaders, teachers, set-
tlement workers and all social workers will find exceed-
ingly helpful.

The author does not suggest methods involving difficult
techniques, nor a program requiring a large budget. In-
stead, she outlines a friendly way of helping Americans
of all cultural, racial, and religious backgrounds to live
more happily together.

Lawn Games

By John R. Tunis. A. S. Barnes and Company, 67 West
44th Street, New York. $1.00.

IN THIS BOOK Mr. Tunis tells how to play darts, horse-
Shoes, clock golf, croquet, archery, badminton, and

other favorite games and gives helpful advice on planning

a complete program for the afternoon which will mean

fun for all the guests. The book is written in Mr. Tunis’

interesting and stimulating style.

Songs Children Sing

Arranged and Edited by Florence Martin and Margaret
Rose White. Hall & McCreary Company, 434 S. Wa-
bash Ave., Chicago 5, Ill. $.50.

HEY’RE ALL HERE—the best loved folk songs, Mother
Goose and nursery songs, patriotic songs, children’s
carols and children’s hymns, but in addition there’s a col-
lection of singing games with directions. A recreation

worker armed with this book 'with its more than 150

songs and games shouldn’t lack material for his musical

program for children.

Camping with Crippled Children

By Raymond Donelson. Maryland League fOr Crippled
Children, Inc., 827 St. Paul Street, Baltimore, Mary-
land. $.75.

HE MATERIAL IN THIS MANUAL represents the c0m-
Ibined experience of members of the staffs who have
worked together during the Six years Camp Greentop
has been sponsored by the Maryland League for Crippled
Children. With its suggestions for preparations necessary
before camp opens, for camp opening, program activities
and their adaptation to the disabilities of the campers,
the booklet has a fund of information for workers with
handicapped children not only in camp but in situations
of all kinds. It also has much to offer camp directors and

counselors working with normal children.

DECEMBER 1943

25 Jigsaw Projects

Science and Mechanics, 154 East Erie Street, Chicago 11,
Illinois. $.25.
HERE ARE PLANS AND INSTRUCTIONS for making jigsaw
furniture and novelties. Projects ranging from
Shelves and magazine racks to clock frames. Detailed
directions are given for the use of the jigsaw as a basis
for successful work.

Play Centers for School Children

By Adele Franklin and Agnes E. Benedict. Wm. Morrow
and Company, 386 Fourth Avenue, New York. $1.50.

HIS BOOK DISCUSSES the play needs Of children and
ways of meeting them through the organization of
play centers. The fundamental approach adopted in the
book and the methods described are based on the work

of the Chelsea School Project and the Chelsea School
Recreation Center in New York City.

A Wartime Manual for High School

Dramatics Directors

' Compiled and Edited by Ernest Bavely. The National

Thespian Dramatic Honor Society for High Schools,
College H111 Station. Cincinnati, Ohio. $1.00.

THROUGH THIS MANUAL high school dramatics direct-

ors will receive practical help in their effort to
mobilize the dramatic program for more effective war-
time Service. At the same time the manual gives detailed
suggestions for the organization of a workable high
school dramatics program. The book is furnished free
of charge to dramatics directors afiiliated with the Na-
tional Thespian Honor Society for High Schools.

I11 addition to the manual, there is available through the
Society a Wartime Playlist for High School Dramatics
Directors which may be secured free of charge. Requests
should be accompanied by Six cents postage.

Fundamental Exercises for Physical
Fitness

By Claire Colestock,iA.B., M.A. and Charles Leroy Low-

man, M.D., F.A.C.S., A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $.50

THE AUTHORS HAVE PRESENTED here a program designed

to prepare the individual for the toughening up pro-
gram which military necessity absolutely requires. They
urge the avoidance of certain exercises in this training
process which will be harmful to growing boys and girls
and they point out some of the activities which may be
too strenuous. At the same time they present some of the
exercises fitted to the needs of immature and growing
'boys and girls.

531

532 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Physical Training—War Department
W.A.C. Field Manual.

PM 35-20. U. S. Government Printing thce, Wash-
ington. $.50. .

The manual which the War Department has prepared
for the use of the VV.A.C. provides excellent material for
all girls and women who want to keep fit for national
service and effective living. Profusely illustrated, the
booklet contains suggestions for a body conditioning pro-
gram, marching exercises, self-testing actiVities, daily
exercise series, swimming program, and similar activ1ties.
Some suggestions for athletic recreation are given, and
there are directions for a number Of singing games and
folk dances, games which do not require equipment,
group games necessitating equipment, relays, and tourna-
ments. There are, too, suggestions for putting the pro-
gram intO Operation.

Music Comes to America.

By David Ewen. Thomas Y. Crowell Company, 432
Fourth Avenue, New York. $3.00.

The history of the evolution of the musical culture in
this country is a fascinating story. In the first half Of
the nineteenth century, according to Mr. Ewen, the scene
was primitive. And hard upon the turn Of the century
came Opera’s fiourishing golden age. At last our music
grew up. In the last few years orchestras have sprung up
all over the country. Chamber music goes out over the
radio almost every night. The people have come to
realize that music belongs to them and are participating
in it through orchestras, choruses, community sings, and
other musical forms.

Youth Can Count . . . Now and Tomorrow.

By Paul Harris, Jr. Association Press, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York. $.60. .

This booklet is a manual Of task operations. It tells
what can be done now by high school age young Ameri-
cans to make them count. The stories-related are real
because they’re possible. Projects such as those described
have actually been undertaken.

The booklet is addressed to young peOple and is writ-
ten in their language.

The Treble Ensemble.

Arranged and edited by Florence Martin and Mar-
garet Rose W'hite. Hall & McCreary Company, 434
S. \Vabash Ave, Chicago 5, III. $.40.

Here is a two-part secular and sacred chorus book in
which both voices have interesting parts. The accompani-
ments are suited to the text and supplement the vocal
parts and a varied repertoire is provided. There are folk
songs, familiar and unfamiliar Foster songs, and some
new patriotic songs.

Sing for Christmas.
By Opal Wheeler. Illustrated 'by Gustaf Tenggren.
E. P. Dutton and Company, Inc., New York. $2.50.
Old favorite carols and others not so familiar, with the
music arranged especially for children, make their ap-
pearance in this delightfully illustrated book. And behind
bmany of the carols is the story of how they came into
eing. '
There are twenty-nine carols and twenty-f our stories in

this-book, which in a very real way carries the Spirit of
Christmas.

“On Wings of Sang.”

Compiled and arranged by William Stickles. Edwin

H. Morris and Company, Inc., 1619 Broadway, New
York. $.25.

There are 68 songs in this collection, all arranged for
soprano, second soprano, and alto voices. The collection
includes a number of old favorites, spirituals, patriotic
songs, and hymns.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933,
of RECREATION, published monthly at New York 10, N. Y., for
October 1, 1943.

STATE OF NEw YORK,
5:.
COUNTY OF NEW YORK,

Before me, a notary public, in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared Howard Braucher, who, having
been duly sworn according tO law, deposes and says that he is the
editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, manage-
ment (and if a daily paper, the girculation), etc., of the aforesaid
publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by
the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act of March 3,
1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations.
printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National 'Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

Editor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
N. Y.

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y. ‘

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or
more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the
names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its
name and address, as well as those of each individual member,
must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston,
Mass; Mrs. Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.; Howard
Braucher, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. William Butterworth, Moline,
111.; Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer,
Jacksonville, Fla.; Mrs. Thomas A. Edison, West Orange, N. J.;
Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Robert Grant, 3rd, ericho, L. I.,
N. Y.; Austin E. Griffiths, Seattle, \Vash.; Mrs. lorman Har-
rower, Fitchburg, Mass; Mrs. Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.',
Mrs. Charles V. Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D.
Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. H.; Gustavus T. Kirby, New York, N.Y.;
H. McK. Landon, Indianapolis, Ind.; Susan M. Lee, Boston,
Mass.; Otto T. Mallery, Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken,
Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.; Mrs.
Sigmund Stern, San Francisco, Calif.; J. C. Walsh, New York,
N. Y.; Frederick M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.; John G.
Winant, Concord, N. H.; Stanley Woodward, Washington, D. C.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none,
so state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock-
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given;
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing
affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock
and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner;
and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person,
assoc1ation, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

. 5._That the average number of copies of each issue of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, tlfrough the mails or otherwise, to paid
subscribers during the twelve months (preceding the date shown
abilve) IS (This information is require from daily publications
On y.

‘i HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 20th day of Siaptem-
ber, 1943.

[SEAL] MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANN,

Notary Public, Nassau County.
Nassau County Clerk’s No. 355. Certificate Filed in New York

Cou_nty. Clerk’s No. 138. Register’s No. 4D70. My Commission
expires March 30, 1944. "'

ZRECBEATION

    
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
    

mmmaummmmmm 4  -   4 I - —-’

:70! your C’Ms’tmas Program

Check this list of helpful Christmas aids and send in your orders today

The Christmas Book, by Marguerite Ickis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  f
A delightfully illustrated booklet presenting old and new material for family or .
group use. Read about Christmas customs in the Old World, the origin of the .-
Christmas tree, and the ageless spirit of medieval carols. Among other features ,

are a Christmas party, playlet for children, community festival, holiday music,

suggestions for decorations and refreshments. Included is a reprint of the famous
editorial, “Is There a Santa Claus?”

Christmas Novelties for Everyone, by Marguerite lckis. . . . . . . . . .10
Directions for Christmas handcraft—ornaments, cards, decorations,”gifts, packages,

table scenes, candle holders, stained glass windows, cutouts. Reprinted from I
RECREATION, November 1942 ;
Christmas Carols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $.80 per 100, $8.00 per 1,000 .‘

Leaflet containing 10 well beloved carols, words only

Thanksgiving and Christmas Decorations from Garden and
WOOdsabYJuliaA-Roserswmm)......... . . . .  .15 f

A Community Christmas Party (MP 295) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

A complete party plan including suggested invitations, decorations, refreshments,
music, games, stunts, and contests

 o I I I oesossooosoesnso .10 :
A party with a North Pole setting. Reprinted from RECREATION, November 1941 t
“Deck theHalls” . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  .10 f
A Christmas party for wartime. Reprinted from RECREATION, November 1943 
Suggestions for Novel Christmas Cards (MP 290) . . . . . . . . . . .05 
Make Your Own Christmas Tree Ornaments (MP 257) . . . . . . . .10 

A Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomimes (MP 296) . . . . .10

A carnival centering around fIve or more carols which lend themselves to panto- .t-
miming, production notes included ‘

Christmas Kaleidoscope (MB 95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Free l

A festival for those who have a large number of children trained in various
national dances and who wish to use them in a program with continuity

A Candle Lighting Service (MB 288) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Free *
Christmas Customs and Legends Around the World (MP 255) . .10 V

A pantomime based on folk customs

A Few References on Christmas Customs and Legends Around
theWorld(MB$96). . . . . . . . . ...................Free

Christmas Music (MP 216). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _. . . . . . . . .05
A list prepared as source material for communities and groups

StoriesofChristmasCarols (MPéO)  ..  ..   . .. .15

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE . . . NEW YORK 10, NEW YORK

“r'P"r vi 1- - -

r‘ r'.

 

 

