A Dream 2'4""?

ROM THE MOUNTAINS come visions and sermons and commandments in all
centuries and in all countries.

\

Down from the mountains came a group of wise men—wise men from many lands
and many ages.

And I heard them as they came singing.
And what of wisdom do you bring me
From the ages since the world began?

I asked them and they answered me in song and this is what they answered as I
caught some of the words.

Know ye that there is one God and He is a God of Life and Light.
Let first things be first.

First—-——live——thou and thy children forever and forever, thou and all that are
within thy gates. The world belongeth unto God and unto His children
forever and forever.

Live each day and accept no plan for the .days that leave no time nor place nor
way for living. H

Cherish all that buildeth man, forever and forever.

Know ye that our God is a God of music, of drama, of the arts, of sports. of
nature.

Know ye that all that buildeth men belongs to God and to thee—forever and
forever.

Forget not the dignity and the worth of the individual as a child of God of
whom thou art one.

Ever and always—-whatever the cost keep thyself free—free from every form
of slavery.

Remember this God's world may be kept friendly.

Remember again and yet again the world in which thou livest belongeth unto God ‘

and unto thee.

Keep thou thy world as a place to be lived in, thou and thy children and thy
children's children—forever and forever.

Let beauty and truth and honor be first.

Let neither gold nor silver nor brass nor stocks nor bonds nor lands nor factories
be placed hrst before thy God and the needs of His people.

If thou wilt place God and His people and the needs of the life of man first, then
know ye that all-other things needful shall be added unto thee forever and

forever.
4 /é 7/ _~

‘amAuoeiicef

II

aSanoD .

:7":
:3
O
p.”
07

{kill/\l 32W

.1 DREAM

Give honor to thy father and thy mother and thy home.
Build strong thine own home as_a fortress of thy God.

Men and women—be not afraid—let not sex have domination over thee in a

world full of beauty and comradeship and so much that belongs to God
and man.

Hate not—except the hate that is within thine own heart.
Kill no ~man’s spirit, thine own, nor thy neighbor's.
Care for thy neighbor’s welfare as for thine own.

Desire intelligence, wisdom, freedom from fear and want, and life itself for thy
neighbor as for thyself.

Desire naught for thyself that thy neighbor with equal gifts may not secure for
himself.

Keep not from thy neighbor aught of beauty that has value for thee.
“Do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with thy God and thy neighbor.”
Be not a slave to the science and the knowledge thou hast thyself created.

Bow not down to the tools and the machines thou hast made. Neither shalt thou
worship them.

Let science and knowledge, let tools and machines serve God and man.

Bow not down to the institutions thou hast created nor worship them. Let thine
institutions serve thee.

On the seventh day and on many special days sing and rejoice and let thy labor
be such as buildeth thy soul and maketh thee to be glad thou art alive.

Rejoice that thou mayest work to build a world in which thou and thy neighbor,
thy children and his children may be equally secure forever and forever.

Rejoice and yet again rejoice that thou art a child of God and all men may
become thy brothers—forever and forever. '

The Dream passed—the words died slowly away—yet the triumphant
note of the song—rejoice and yet again rejoice—forever and forever remained.
Some of the singers seemed to me to have come from Egypt, from China, from
Babylonia and Assyria, from India, from Greece, from Rome, from the North
Lands, and from the South Lands, from many holy lands of many people. But
always the people who sang—in the dream—were coming down from the moun—
tains and a special light was on their faces. I believed that some of them were
thinking of Mount Olympus, some of Mecca, some of Jerusalem, but all were
turned toward the future.

7W0C/ 5’me

 

APRIL I 944

 

RECREATION

A Traveling

AST SUMMER upward of
L 250,000 Greater Cleve—
land children saw and
petted animals from the ‘
Cleveland Zoo in their own
playground. It was the first
time the Zoo had been brought
to them, and it proved to be
such a huge success that
everyone concerned is deter—
mined it shall be an annual summer event.

Not a single accident marred the summer’s
record. The animals not only survived but actually
improved in health during these tours. The arrival
of the traveling zoo was an event of importance in
every neighborhood it visited. The Cleveland Zoo
credits the traveling unit with stimulating interest
among children and adults to such an extent that
it reliected a marked increase in attendance at the
Zoo itself.

The traveling unit, mounted on a trailer chassis
and pulled by a truck, made 172 trips between
June 23rd and September 6th. Every Recreation
Department playground and most of the Board of

APRIL 1944 1‘

By JULIUS KEMENY
"Commissioner. Division of Recreation

Cleveland. Ohio

Zoo tor Cleveland Playgrounds

They thought Ringling Brothers had come
back to town when Cleveland's Traveling
ZooI with its gay circus wagon decora-
tions and loudspeaker broadcasting band
music. made its first trip last summer!

Education playgrounds in
Cleveland proper were visited
during the season. In addi—
tion, the Zoo visited at least
one playground in each of the
suburbs that go to make up
Greater Cleveland, as well as
going to orphanages and other
children’s institutions. At
Lakewood Park, Lakewood,
Ohio, it played to the largest crowd of children
during the season-—an estimated 6,000. '. Some*
times it would take the children at a given play—
ground as long as an hour and a half to file past
the trailer. Afterward they were allowed to pet
the rabbits, guinea pigs, and other small animals.

It Began at the Child Checking Playground

This is how it all came about: Early in the
spring the City Division of Recreation installed a
child checking playground in Public Square as an
exhibit for Youth Victory Week. The idea oc—
curred to me of having an exhibit of small animals
there. Consequently I went to Fletcher Reynolds,

 

Photo by Oscar P. Harke

3

4 A TRAVELING ZOO FOR CLEVELAND CHILDREN

Zoo Director, who was glad to
c00perate. The exhibit at-
tracted so much attention from
children and adults alike that
it set us thinking.

How could we take some of
the Zoo animals around to the
playgrounds during the sum-
mer? Mr. Reynolds and I got
our heads together and came up with the only
possible answer—a trailer. How to get the trailer?-
How to get the various organizations who might
be interested to cooperate?

After receiving the wholehearted approval of
Arthur L. Munson, Director of the Department of
Public Properties, in whose department we func-
tion, we went with our idea to Harold T. Clark,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Museum
of Natural History and the Board of Control of
the Cleveland Zoo, who embraced it enthusiasti—
cally ; then to the Cleveland Press and its editor,
Louis B. Seltzer, who showed equal enthusiasm.

With this backing we approached Leyton E.
Carter, Director of the Cleveland Foundation, and
had no trouble getting $300 for our venture. A
visit to the executives of the Thompson Products,

Commissioner.

Incorporated got us an additional $500. Now we ,

were in funds!
‘...The Cleveland Press announced the venture in
a story, and assigned Joe Collier, a feature writer,
to work closely with Mr. Reynolds and me in get-
ting the project into shape. \Ve bought a trailer
for $300. Two cabinet makers from the Recrea-
tion Division were
assigned to build the
superstructure
which is 15 feet
long, 8% feet wide,
and approximately
10% feet high. It
contains fourteen
cages, two of which
are large enough to
accommodate young
lions or animals of
comparable size.
James Herron,
Press artist, as-
signed to draw a
design for the super-
structure decora—
tion, chose to make
it resemble a circus

The Cleveland Division of Recreation
will be glad to furnish plans of the
trailer and give additional informa-
tion regarding the project to any in-
terested group desiring it. Requests
should be addressed to Julius KemenyI
Division of Recrea-

tion' 6 City Hall, Cleveland' Ohio.

 

band wagon. A decorator was
hired to carry this out in ply-
wood.

r We Conduct a “Treasure
Hunt”

, In our‘ quest for paint and
plywood Mr. Reynolds and I
visited the Davis Plywood
Corporation. We intended to purchase the materi—
als, but Mr. Davis pointed out that plywood was
rationed. However, when he learned what our
project was, he remarked, “We can’t sell it but no
one can stop me from giving it away.” The Glid-
den Paint Company officials lost no time, when
we explained the project, in giving us the paint.
We bought the heavy wire needed, and some hard-
ware. Between us we furnished the flooring, wood,
and other materials needed.

Very soon the trailer was built and almost ready
to travel, but we still needed a public address sys-m

tem. Hoping to have one donated, The Cleveland

Press ran a story of the need. It brought no dona-
tion but it uncovered a nice bargain in a second
hand system for $40. Mayor Frank Lausche, in—
tensely interested in the project, cut red tape to
make a city truck available.

The Zoo Is Dedicated and Goes on Its Way

On June 23rd, Mayor Lausche with Harold
T. Clark, Leyton E. Carter, officials of the donor
companies, and the sponsors (The Cleveland
Press, Recreation Division of the City of Cleve—
land, and the Cleve-
land Museum of
Natural History,
parent organization
of the Cleveland
Zoo), dedicated the
trailer in ceremon-
ies at high noon on
the Public Square.
After the ceremony
it set out on its
rounds.

The crew con-
sisted of a driver
furnished by the'
city and two trained
lecturers, one paid
jointly by the Di-
vision of Recreation
and the Cleveland

RECREATION

A TRAVELING ZOO FOR CLEVELAND CHILDREN . 5

 

Pint.- '~; 0er P. Harlan

To the children's great delight fhey were

Zoo, the other paid by the
Friends of the Cleveland Zoo,
a fund-raising organization.
The trailer stopped an average of one hour and
fifteen minutes at each park, starting about noon
and making an average of four stops daily.

After the project got under way it was virtually
no work at all for our Department. Mr. Reynolds
has estimated that three hours a day loading, un-
loading. and cleaning the cages covered the Zoo’s
extra work.

In the cages were two monkeys, a baby fox, a
mother opossum with young, guinea pigs, an owl,
an armadillo, a few rabbits, three kittens which,
by the way, received a lion’s share of attention, a
bantam rooster, and other animals. Some of them
were changed from time to time, but many of them
went through the entire season.

A complete new generation of guinea pigs. was
born on the trailer. One day when the men opened
the cages at the playground the children called
attention to baby guinea pigs. They had been
born between stops.

6

APRIL 1944

permitted to pet some of the smaller ani- The lecturch were Ed
mals, all of which miraculously survived!

Rector and Samuel E. Davies,
school teachers, and both in-
terested in wildlife. They took turns telling the
children about the animals. When the lectures
were over, circus music was played over the public
address system.

The Police Departments of Cleveland and the
suburbs assigned squad cars to the Zoo. \Vhen it
entered a district, the squad car for that district
picked it up and stayed with it until it left the
district.

The Division of Recreation niimeographed a
week’s itinerary in advance, c0pies of which were
sent to the Welfare Federation, the suburbs in-
volved, the Police Department, the daily and neigh-
borhood newspapers, and to all city councilmen.
The Cleveland Press carried the next day’s itin-
erary every day, and the following week’s itinerary
each Saturday. In addition it ran several feature
stories during the summer and printed many
pictures of playground crowds.

The traveling zoo showed up on schedule at

-:I—_ .

6 A TRAVELING ZOO FOR CLEVELAND CHILDREN

every playground, rain or shine. Often children intend to publish a brochure containing pictures
stayed through showers, so fascinated were they and short descriptions of animals, one of which
with the animals. will be given each child visiting the exhibit. It is
also planned to take a pony along next summer for

Plans for 1944 some of the‘smaller children to ride.

Supervisors planned handcraft programs around Two days a week this year, as last, the exhibit
the Zoo. This feature will be extended next sum- will remain at the Zoo and the lecturers will con—
mer, with possibly a public exhibition of the results duct tours of the entire Zoo. There will also be a
at the end of the season. showing of animal motion pictures in the Zoo

This year the sponsoring agencies between them Auditorium at stated intervals.

-.- ..3.; k

9

Photo by Oscar P. Harl

RECREATION

 

How I Get Ready to Tell a Story

By JEANETTE E. PERKINS

  
 
  
 
 
 

  

11mm Tim
[Wain/n...
WW

I
‘. '.\ I I III

iIETlllli'll.

I
V

     
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

   

 
    

 
 
     
  
  
  

   

N
I9COJ‘CJ'L {tor Mw'qu‘ one... |
Menu-1 Wd-L I unim‘ 
are du‘sga-VdEd. been-use Ishodi

MT 0 Telliqu-

 
    

<’ m€9&
HQ. 5

:5
IH‘OOV‘O-li' I'VE {LOU-Nd .0 '

      
      
  
  
 
 

 

    
 

wm
Tokvfufaog‘!
N L "New plotted
.- -- TonL 30b9,?

I

/t \‘\J To'mk‘ta 3ME‘Q-

- I

 1f“ qnomu’
‘ ’ ’a q‘anauth‘Q

'- kc, harmed.

 
     
     
     
 

    
    

   

  

' d‘ or
F30} gag-“:1: gaff'

 

I Think ,0 wk. Stake. and
each knead at in “alumna T5
“5% Chmay. .

     
     
 
   
    
 

 
  

33‘”. who
r. m on. H! W ‘3

. KEWW
@
e 32??» %
m: “‘ “T

0.
1k h ,3“ mvraLU-i‘
\w‘n'u-‘ucs “xii-f1- WYPQ. 1kg: qiqub.

 
     

 
     

  
  

      
   
   
  
  
 
 

  
   

    

          
 
   
   
  

      

    
     
   
   
  
 

   

HMLOJ-‘Jt dung-1e '5 013': IT Te“; me STOP 1%? - . .
'm. m cu-d 1-. his cgnTriin'o prygge, ygmxéefte <5":  \fW'XEiggf &‘4m_
and M If. rrov a. and 0 . "m
MU H P a 2:1” 0‘" pknze. disTroLTs my was a ham“: .

olTerG\br\ .

 

    
   
   
  

    
   

 
 
 

'I diseard The, book and
rel—end Ifue inuenTed
aha. 312a?“ masew.

I ref-resin. m

1113: lewes Me. free.
where. 31" '15

13 Take; ouT or» puJ‘ m
WEE“? 1: fume-sad

  

From Children’s Religion, Copyright, The Pilgrim Press. Used by permission.

APRIL 1944

 

Gedge Harmon

MERICA’S PLAYGROUNDS, last summer, were busy

A places. There were, of course, the usual ac-

tivities which make the playgrounds so popu-

lar as rendezvous for boys, girls, and even adults,

but because we had entered the war there were
many special service activities as well.

Do They Use Them? But before we talk about

activities on the playground, let’s answer the ques—
tion—~-“Are the playgrounds used?” and talk about
some general matters. Before last summer’s vaca-
tion started for the children of Memphis, 33,264
of them were queried as to their use of the play-
ground. More than 71 per cent of the children ap-
proached on this subject said they played on the
grounds. Of the other 21 per cent some lived too
far away to come, while others worked in their
free hours.

Grownups, too, are using the playgrounds.
There is a playground in Port Chester, New York,

for example, which has been developed exclusively.

for grownups. It is a small area with a children’s
playground close by in the park, and in it are

courts for bocci, handball, paddle tennis, horse-
shoes and similar games.

Leadership. It is difficult in these days of man-
power shortage to secure enough trained leaders
for the playgrounds. One solution of the problem
lies in training volunteers, some of whom may be
found among the older high school students.

Volunteer leaders on the park playgrounds in
Indianapolis were secured through the cooperation

8

Now That School's Ol

Each Spring. before the playground season
opens.-we tell you of some of the happen-
ings on last summer playgrounds. and of
any plans we have heard of for the coming
summer. which might help you in planning
for your communig's activities. So here
are some scattere notes from all parts
of our country. May they serve you well!

of merchants’ associations, P.T.A.’s, OCD, and
other organized groups in each neighborhood. Men
were recruited to handle athletic teams; women for
storytelling, dramatics, crafts, or even “play—
ground mothers” to look after small children while
the leader directed activities. Members of child
care groups sponsored by OCD who received train-
ing in games and crafts from workers of the Park
Department served as junior leaders on the play-
grounds.

Akron, Ohio, used a novel plan for securing
leaders when the opening last summer of thirty-
six playgrounds instead of the fourteen originally
planned necessitated the employment of many more
workers. In less than a week’s time the Recreation
Department recruited eighty—five playground work—
ers by sending sixty telegrams to school teachers
and by inserting a page advertisement in the help
wanted columns of the local newspaper. School
teachers, college students and high school gradu—
ates responded to the call. We might add that
Akron’s increased activity was due to the fact that
the City Council appropriated an additional
$16,000 for the recreation program!

If you are planning a training institute we sug—
gest you write to the National Recreation Associa-
tion for a copy of the institute syllabus, Training
Your Playground Leaders ($.35). In addition to
its general suggestions it has schedules, suggested
t0pics, and lists of references which you will find
exceedingly helpful.

Publicizing Playgrounds. Unless people can know
what the playgrounds have to offer and what is
going on there, they won’t go to them. So they
must be told. The director of the summer play-
ground program in Reading, Massachusetts, realized
this, so he first visited the Neighborhood Betterment
Association and talked to the group there about the

RECREATION

iuppose We Play!

proposed program. Next,
he sent a mimeographed
bulletin in the form of a
letter to all of the chil-
dren in the public schools
telling them about the
activities to be conducted.
Finally, through the cour-
tesy of the Municipal
Electric Light Company
a printed slip telling about .

the playground was sent

into the homes of Reading with the monthly elec—
tricity bill.

Don’t forget that the children, too, can help in
publicity. In the ‘Tuckahoe, New York, Record
last summer there appeared regularly a column of
playground notes provided by the children them-
selves, who wrote about interesting activities on
their playgrounds. Some of these reporters were
as young as eight years of age. One correspond-
ent wrote of a community night at her playground:

“About 250 people turned out, and although
there were loads of mosquitoes, everyone had a
nice time, I am sure.”

The Indianapolis Park Department publicized
its recreation activities through the newspapers
and, in addition, held a city-wide poster contest
judged by two librarians, one head of the art de-
partment “and the other head of the children’s room
of the central public library.

About Activities

Nature Recreation. Let’s start with nature rec-
reation because that is a feature of the program
which grows more important all the time.

Children of all ages enjoyed the nature lore pro-
gram on the playgrounds at Mt. Lebanon, Penn-
sylvania, last summer. Little girls from 7 to II
years of age met every morning for a period of
nature recreation. They took short nature walks,
learning to identify trees, birds, wild flowers, and
butterflies. One of their projects was a bulletin
board containing pictures they had made repre—
senting good neighbors in nature. Another was
the making of wild flower books containing pic-
tures drawn from the wild flowers they had gath-
ered. The girls learned to identify twenty—five of

APRIL 1944

to "N

‘53»

 
    
  

I..."
:v

’I
['4 .4‘
‘5‘

  
        

P

an

A
‘31

M

Gedge Harm on

Perhaps the salvage campaigns and some
of the other activities which children
took part in last summer sound to you
more like work than play! We suggest
that you read the article on page 2|
of this issue —— "They Also Serve"

the Museum’s study birds. Among their trips out-
side the playground were visits to the Buhl Plane-
tarium with the boys of the playground, and to
the zoo.

The period from 10:15 to II :00 each day was
devoted to Girl Scout badge work in nature.
Among the activities were trips to the Museum
and Phipps Conservatory, and a number of hikes.
The final two weeks were devoted to the study of
stars and trees, to trips to the Planetarium, the
Observatory, and the Riverview Natural History
Museum.

A group of boys from eight to twelve years of
age showed keen interest in “manifestations of
nature,” especially in the aquatic, land, animal and
butterfly life about Cedarhurst Lake. A trip to the
Planetarium led to the construction of a sun dial
for the park. The boys enjoyed a cook—out and a
number of picnics, topping off the program with
overnight camping in the park.

Among the most popular of the activities of the
Elmira, N. Y., playgrounds were the weekly
hikes, picnics, and cook-outs.

Arts and Crafts. Nine of the largest commercial
establishments in Chester, Pennsylvania, gave
space in their windows for display of playground
crafts, and both the chain stores and independent

0

10 NOW THAT SCHOOL’S OUT—SUPPOSE WE PLAY!

merchants contributed some of their best window
space. When the material was distributed each
store was given articles from different playgrounds.
This provided a kind of treasure hunt, since every
child went from window to window looking for the
articles he had made, each of which was identified
with a small card giving the name of the owner,
age, and the name of the playground. This device
also gave the children an opportunity to see articles
made by children on playgrounds other than their
own. Many of the fathers and mothers visited the
displays, which a large sign indicated were the
work of the children on the local playgrounds.

In Bridgeport, Connecticut, under the auspices
of the Department of Recreation, there were dis-
plays of crafts, but these were held at the individual
playgrounds, and aroused much interest on the
part of relatives and friends. There were hundreds
of the usual articles made on playgrounds—leather
belts, bracelets, pot holders, and innumerable
others, but in addition there were some unusual
projects.

On the land adjacent to the Harvey Went Play—
ground the boys made out of some old lumber a
boys’ but which won special recognition. One
playground had a replica of the Yankee Stadium
made out of cardboard 4’ x 4’. From others came
attractive posters and paintings on wood, and an
excellent ship model. The sewing done during the
summer was especially good on all playgrounds
and there were dresses, halters, blouses, aprons,
and handkerchiefs galore.

The Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Recreation Asso-
ciation held an exhibit of handcraft articles in a
downtown store window. In spite of the fact that
it was almost impossible to secure materials, the
1943 exhibition was one of the largest in years.
Bits of scrap felt were used to make little lapel
novelties; linoleum odds and ends were carved
into attractive wall plaques; with a few crayons,
water colors, shellac or substitutes, ordinary paper
picnic plates were beautifully decorated. Leather
scraps from a near-by factory were made into coin
purses, wallets, knife holders
and link belts. With the aid
of a hand drill, wood block
belts laced together with
brightly colored scrap yarn
and with gaily colored pic-
tures on each strap, made at-
tractive belts.

Over 5,000 articles made
on the playgrounds during the

Last summer, in its playground program.
the Philadelphia Bureau of Recreation
stressed activities which were patriotic
in nature and would contribute to the
war effort. A few of the activities are
described in this issue A later issue
of RECREATION will contain an article
telling of the city's Stay-at-Home In-
celebratio'ii which
proved to be an outstanding occasion.

dependence Day

1943 season is the proud report of the Akron,
Ohio, Recreation Department. Among them were
many stuffed animals, lapel gadgets, and house-
hold articles. There were two exhibits of hand-
craft—one, in the lobby of the municipal building;
the other, in a prominent downtown store window.

Children of the Indianapolis playgrounds made
useful articles for the armed forces, hospitals, and
their own homes. On one playground the boys
built a doll’s house, painted and papered it; boys
and girls together made furniture, while girls made
drapes, curtains, and rugs. The finished project
was presented to the Indianapolis Day Nursery.

Doll beds, dresses, chairs, and tables were used
on the tot lots; game boards and other game equip—
ment were made on all playgrounds. Other proj—
ects included embroidered bibs for the Day Nurs-
ery; tray favors, stuffed animals, and scrapbooks
for children in hospitals; fans for the Home for
the Aged; decorations for servicemen’s centers and
day care centers; comb cases, key holders, station-
ery folders filled with writing papers, braided
lanyards, and scrapbooks of cartoons for the
armed forces, and holders for ration books and
war bonds for homes.

Music on the Playground. Music grows in favor
on the playgrounds. Thirteen playgrounds in San
Francisco had toy symphonies last summer which
provided both recreation and education in music
for the children. Using percussion instruments,
smaller and more simplified than those of a regu-
lar orchestra, the children were organized accord-
ing to age, preschool and advanced. The material
offered and method of presentation were governed
by the age of the children. ‘

The music supervisor of the Indianapolis play-
grounds organized rhythm bands, a small orches-
tra, and chorus groups, and held talent shows to-
gether with community sings on all occasions when
groups gathered.

Shows. There were playground shows of all
kinds last summer. Dolls of every description were
in Bridgeport’s doll show.
Taken from closet shelves,
picked out of their cribs, with
faces washed and hair combed
and dressed in their finest
clothes, they made a brave
showing.

Bridgeport had .a pet show
as well. “Bring your pet along
with yourself,” said the invi-

RECREATION

NOW THAT SCHOOL’S OUT—SUPPOSE WE PLAY! . 11

tation. “It may be a dog, cat, bird, fish, rabbit, or
white mice, turtles, frogs, crocodiles or what have
you. Clean them up and make them look their
best.” Some of the classifications for the dogs
were: smallest, largest, most bandy legged, most
sympathetic eyes, fattest, laziest, ugliest, best look-
ing, and dogs with the most spots, longest tail.
and “trickiest.”

And there was a costume show in Bridgeport—
a sort of summer Halloween,'because the partici-
pants went about it in much the same manner.
They got dressed up, took part in skits, sang songs.
played harmonicas, and did a variety of stunts.
Therg, were cowboys, soldiers, sailors, Indians,
and old-fashioned girls— just to mention a few.

The doll and pet show held in
Syracuse, New York, had a
setting made to resemble a
miniature country fair with
booths and stalls. Exhibits
ranged from white mice to
ponies.

Storytelling.
On the Akron,
Ohio, play-
grounds chil-
dren took turns
telling stories
as well as list-
ening to them.
Each storytell-
ing group se-
lected one of its
favorite tales to
dramatize as its contribution to the Neighborhood
Play Day at the end of the season.

On many playgrounds last summer patriotic
stories were .the order of the day. -

Interplayground Contests. Interplayground con-
tests in a number of activities‘were staged last
summer on the park playgrounds of St. Paul, Min-
nesota. Even first aid provided material for a cori—
test. Teams of two, who alternated in each event
as doctor and patient, competed for honors in ap-
plying bandages of various kinds.

Sand modeling was another activity in which
there was close competition in four districts. Here
the patriotic theme proved most popular. Modeling
was judged on the basis of neatness, detail, origi-
nality, size and proportion, properties, general
artistic judgment, and number of participants.

A horseshoe pitching contest was held on an
elimination basis to determine winners in each age

APRIL 1944 ~

Countless pet shows were held
in cities all over the country

  
  
  

class at every center. Then came the choosing of
a district champion, and finally a city champion.
Basketball throws for girls aroused much inter-
est. Three throws were allowed each contestant in
every event, and the best throw of the three was
recorded on the score sheet. The three events
were: (I) basketball throw overhead backward
from the line, using both hands; (2) basketball
round arm throw forward from the 7-foot
circle marked on the ground; (3) basketball goal
throw from foul line (10 trials for each contestant).
The boys competed in football and a graded
scale of points was used according to distance of
individuals in each age'group for the pass, the
drop kick and place kick.
A singing game's contest with
r variations of standard singing
games such as “Looby Lou” and
“Farmer in the Dell” created
new interest .in these games.
Playground Elections. July 14th
was election day
on the Syra-
cuse, NewYork,
playgrounds. In
order to vote
boys and girls
had to register
on July 12th,
and 1,300 of _
them did. As
the result of
the Spirited
campaign con—
ducted on all the grounds, play leaders were elected
to take over the playgrounds and conduct the pro-
gram for one day. The elected leaders Were guests
of the Municipal Recreation Commission in the
Common Council chambers at City Hall, where
the 'Mayor and chairman of the Municipal Recrea-
tion Commission addressed them. Later they at-
tended a movie as guests of the management of a
local theater.

 

G edge H armon

Pageants and Festivals. As a part of its August
program, the Department of Parks and Recreation
in Schenectady, New York, presented at Second
Ward Park the “Pageant of the Four Freedoms.”
The children and young pe0ple who took part
came from three of the playgrounds and ranged in
age from 5 to 18. The event was featured by a
large advertisement in the Schenectady Union-
Star, which was accompanied by the announce—
ment that the advertisement was made possible by

12 NOW THAT SCHOOL’S OUT—SUéPOSE WE PLAY!

thirty-three local firms, organi-
zations and individuals.
Beautiful Sigmund Stern
Grove in San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, became an enchanted
place when the Recreation De-
partment’s annual summer fes-
tival took place there on June
I 3, 1943. Hundreds of children and young people

appeared in folk dances, classical ballet, toy sym- '

phonies, choruses and specialty numbers. The
Junior Civic Symphony was heard in overture and
in accompaniment.

Five hundred youngsters from the thirty-three
playgrounds of Reading, Pennsylvania, participated
in the final folk dance festival held before an audi-
ence of 2,000 persons at the close of the summer.
For an hour the children presented a program of
songs and dances, including “How DO You Do ?”
“Turn Around Me,” “Swiss May Dance,” “Old
Roger,” “Carrousel,” “Gustaf Skol," and “Seven
Jumps.” Leaders of the various play centers taught
and guided the children. Parents’ playground as-
sociations helped the children make Robin Hood
costumes, pinafores, aprons, boleros, capes, crepe
paper hats, and patriotic dresses of red, white, and
blue._

Playground or district play days were stressed
by the Indianapolis Park Department last summer
as a substitute for the annual pageant. These in-
cluded almost every activity which made up the
program. Some were set up with a definite theme.
while some resembled a county fair. The play
days were as varied as the interests and prefer-
ences of the children who helped to plan them.

Akron is another city which
substituted neighborhood cele-
brations for the usual end of
the season city-wide play fes-
tival or pageant. The play-
grounds were divided into
areas, and the smaller grounds
of the district collaborated
with one large park in the
section. This helped
greatly with transporta-
tion problems.

Each area had its own
dramatic skit, exhibition
of handcraft, games, and
presentation of awards.
These were made on a
point basis for leader-

Last summer many cities celebrated
at the end of July.
There will be celebrations all over
the country this summer. Write the
National Recreation Association for
material which will help you in ob-
serving this important special day.

Joseph Lee Day

   
 
 
  
 
 
   

ship and service, team games,
individual games, and sports-
manship. About 2,000 children
on thirty-five playgrounds re-
ceived awards.

At the close of the season,
children from all the play-
grounds of Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, participated in a play, “A Boy and His
Flag,” which was the public performance of the
season. It was a patriotic play which included
patriotic drills and songs, a parachute dance and a
red, white, and blue dance.

“A Carnival of Play” was the name giveg the
annual playground festival sponsored in 1943 by
the Playground and Recreation Association of
Philadelphia. The festival carried out the sum-
mer’s theme, “unrationed play,” which stressed the
desirability of permitting the children as far as
possible to choose the kind of play they wanted.

The setting for the festival was the corner of a
street or village square, decorated in carnival style,
with tents or pavilions for different features, ex-
hibits, and displays of posters in colorful appro—
priate designs. The carnival Opens with a proces-
sion of the participants to the scene, with barkers

and musicians in the lead, and clowns, tumblers
and other performers bringing up the rear. The
performers stop at the tents assigned to them, ac-
cording to the type of program they are to put on.
The carnival master, with the various barkers,
proceeds to the central tent and introduces the per-
formers—groups of small children, juniors and
seniors—who put on the activities.

The arts and crafts projects were carried on in
the same Spirit of freedom of
choice, and these were con-
spicuously successful. A great
deal of talent came to light
and unusual originality and
initiative were revealed. A

number of the boys became
interested in making posters
, and decorations for the car-
nival and some of them
showed genuine talent

in that field.

Family groups were
encouraged to picnic
on the playgrounds

Gedgc Harmon

RECREATION

NOW THAT .S‘CHOOL’S OUT—SUPPOSE WE PLAY! 13

 

The summer playground
festival presented by the
Montclair, New Jersey,
Recreation Department made use of the victory gar—
den theme and featured farmerettes and some of
the animals which you would rather not see in your
garden. You may secure free from the National
Recreation Association a copy of the All American
Victory Garden and Playground Festival.

Two simple pageants are also available from the
Association. One of them, A ll for Victory, by Eliza—
beth Hanley, Playground and Recreation Asso—
ciation of Philadelphia, presents in a delightful way
the conservation and salvage program of the play-
grounds. The other, Children of the Americas,
written by Florence Rhones of the Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, Recreation Association, depicts in songs
and dances periods in the history of America.
These pageants are available at ten cents each.

And Still They Travel! In Spite of transportation
difficulties, they traveled last summer. We have
told you in this issue of Cleveland’s traveling zoo,
and \Vaterloo’s Victory Wagon, but there were other
caravans as well, for travel-
ing about the playgrounds
and parks of Memphis, Ten-
nessee, last summer was a
gayly painted traveling game
wagon, complete with every—
thing from badminton darts
‘and racquets to croquet sets,
baseball bats and horseshoes.

APRIL 1944

There were "special days" when they left the
playground and went on delightful adventures

Syracuse. New York. conducts nine swim-
ming pools which last summer served a
large number of residents and visiting
servicemen. A Learn-to-Swim campaign
was a feature of the program. The Mu-
nicipal Recreation Commission reports
that the women lifeguards. who out-
numbered the men. proved themselves
thoroughly reliable and satisfactory.

Gedge Harmon

Quiet games also were in-
cluded. The bright awning
over the. wagon carried the

sign, “Games to Lend.”

They took trips away from the playgrounds, too.
There were the outings in San Francisco, for ex-
ample, where the careful planning which was done
by the San Francisco Recreation Department had
a great deal to" do with their success. As early as
April 1943, the directors from the six districts into
which the city had been divided began holding
meetings to discuss the cost of the outings, travel-
ing distances, facilities and interesting points to

be visited.

Each district selected one day a week for an
outing away. from the playground. In addition to
this district day, each of which was attended by
more than three hundred children, city—wide events
were held and special programs conducted by the
departments on garden clubs, swimming, junior
museum, physical fitness, music, and girls’ and
women’s activities.

A requirement for the program was that at least
twenty children must partici— ‘
pate in order for a group to
leave the playground. Much
of the success of these special
events was due to the fact’that
it was possible for the Depart-
ment to supply substitute di—
rectors while the i'egular lead—
ers were off the grounds.

14 NOL‘V THAT SCHOOL’S OUT—SUPPOSE‘WE PLAY!

Trips were taken to Golden Gate Park, Flei-
shacker Zoo, Junior Museum, Fisherman’s Wharf,
Roller Skating Rink, Crystal Baths, and many
other places of interest.

To publicize the special events, a mimeographed
program was distributed throughout the schools
of the city and posted on the bulletin boards of
each playground. The invitation issued through
these programs was attractively phrased in a way
designed to attract the children. Here, for ex-

ample, is the announcement for District Four:
“On to your Playground daily go
For stories, games and puppet show
And if you live in District Four
,Wednesday’s the day for fun galore.”

June 23—Trip to Zoo

We'll meet at the playground at exactly nine-thirty
Wear heavy shoes and clothes not too dirty

Pack a big lunch for we’ll eat too

As we go out to enjoy Fleishacker’sZoo.

June 30—Picnic at Gilman Playground

Around nine-thirty be ready to go

For we must reach the beach while the tide is low
Bring your lunch, and be ready for fun

For we plan to do everything under the sun.

July 7—Boy's Swim at Mission Pool

We’ll leave here, lbOys, at 1 P. M.

For those who can’t go—we’re sorry for them
For it will be warm—and what with no school
There’ll be nothing like swimming in a nice cool pool.

July l4—Girls' Indoor Fun at Jackson

Have you ever laughed ’til your sides did ache?
If not, young ladies, for goodness sake!

Be here on the ground at a quarter to one

And we’ll take you to Jackson for oodles of fun.

July ZI—Picnic at Golden Gate Park

A picnic is fun—that you all know
So at 9 A. M. to the Park we’ll go ,
Bring a big lunch and some small change too
For the donkeys and swings
will :be waiting for you.

July 28—Joseph Lee Day at
North Beach Playground

For small children to be
followed by swim at Crys-
tal P-lunge (city-wide).

Aug. 4—Play Day. at Jackson

This is a day we know
you’ll enjoy
, And that "includes every
girl and boy.
There’ll be races and games
and surprises galore
Leave a. your grounds at

eleven—be 'back by four.

The response to our request for infor-
mation on last summer's playground
programs was so generous that it has
been utterly impossible to publish all of
the material in this issue of RECREATION.
There will be many other practical and
interesting articles in the May number
of the magazine. Don't miss this issue. '

We also offer the suggestion that you
consult the inside back cover of this issue
for a listing of publications available
through the Association ,, which have
value for your program. and that you
send for complete lists of publications.

Aug. ll—Skating at Coliseum Bowl

Bring twenty cents and be ready to roll
On a pair of skate: at Coliseum Bowl. _
See your directors and they’ll let you know
Exactly what time everyone shall go.

Aug. l8—Treasure Hunt at Sunnydale

“Yo Ho Ho” and a “Heave Ho My Hearty"
This is the day for your Treasure Hunt Party.
So keep your eyes open, and clues you’ll uncover
That will lead you to prizes for you to discover.

Health the Fun Way. For several years the In-
dianapolis, Indiana, Park Department cooperated
with the Dairy Council in stressing with the play-
ground children the importance of good health and
how it can be maintained. Last year the Council
presented a puppet show, “The Cowboy and the
Cook,” which was shown on sixteen different play-
grounds and reached more than 4,000 children.
The Department divided the sixty-three play-
grounds into districts, chose the playground most
centrally located and having the best facilities, and
invited all near-by playgrounds to attend. The
rhythm bands furnished cowboy music; chorus
groups sang western songs, while dancers, rope
twirlers, and other talented members of the group
combined to make the show a huge success.’ Six
boys and girls who play accordions and guitars
volunteered their services for each performance.

‘H

A Swimming Campaign. Because civilians of
today may be servicemen of tomorrow, a Civilian
Commando Swimming Campaign was conducted
last summer in the swimming pools maintained by
the Bureau of Recreation of Philadelphia. This
campaign was considered of primary importance
because of the necessity for men to know how to
keep themselves aiioat in the water, to keep alive
under water, to forge ahead with heavy packs and
equipment, and to care for
themselves and others in any
emergency in the water.

Three courses were con-
ducted, graded junior, senior
and expert, to enable begin-
ners, intermediate and ad-
vanced swimmers to qualify.
The expert test included all
the events listed in the junior
and senior courses, plus ad-
ditional water stunts. Any
swimmer who passed the
expert course automatically
received credit for the three
tests.

 

RECREATION

NOW THAT SCHOOL’S OUT—SUPPOSE WE PLAY! 15

The requirements of the junior course consisted
of live events which were—20-yard breast stroke
swim; 20-yard back stroke swim; float or tread
water three minutes and disrobe in the water;
swim 10 yards udder water; 20-yard swim fully

clothed.

The senior course requirements included ten
events—a 30-yard breast stroke swim; a 30—yard
side stroke swim; a 30-yard back stroke swim; a
30—yard swim fully clothed carrying five pounds
of equipment; jump in the water, disrobe and
float or tread water five minutes; block and a 20-
yard head- carry ; parry and a 20-yard cross chest
carry; a 20-yard fireman’s carry in shallow water;
a 15-yard swim under water; a 300-yard swim.

The expert course included nine events which
were—a I 50-yard swim fully clothed using breast,
side and back stroke; jump in the water fully
clothed, disrobe and float or tread water five min-
utes; a 15-yard swim under water fully clothed;
block and a 20-yard head carry, both rescuer and
victim fully clothed; parry and a 20-yard cross
chest carry, both rescuer and victim fully clothed;
a 20-yard fireman’s carry, both rescuer and victim
fully clothed; a 30-yard swim fully clothed carry-
ing nine to ten pounds of equipment; artificial res-
piration ; a 300-yard swim.

There are servicemen who owe their lives to the
fact that they learned to swim in Philadelphia’s
municipal swimming pool.

Safefy Patrols. Safety patrols, organized last
summer on the playgrounds of Akron proved
highly successful. One Captain, one Lieutenant,
two Sergeants, and four Guards were selected to
form a patrol for each playground, except in areas
where the number of children warranted a larger
personnel. A manual with safety rules was fur-
nished the children. The following general in-
structions were given in the manual:

I. See that all play equipment is in a safe con-
dition and in good working order. There
should be an inspection of all equipment at
least once daily. Report any defect in equip-
ment to a supervisor immediately.

2. See that safety rules listed in this manual are

obeyed by all children. If a child refuses to!

obey the rules of safety, report the case to a
superior officer, who in turn will speak to the
child. If the child still refuses to obey, report
the case to a supervisor.

APRIL 1944

3.

U:

10.

II.

12.

13.
14.

16.

Set an example 'for other children by observ-
ing all safety rules yourself while at play.

Keep the playground free from’ glass, nails,
loose bricks, etc.

. Carry this manual with you at all times.

. Wear your armband at all times. It is your

badge of authority.

General Safety Rules

. Report accidents promptly to supervisors.
. Do not use apparatus when it is wet.

. Exercise care for others by playing games at

a safe distance from other groups of children.

. Look ahead when running.

. Keep drinking fountains free from papers,

peelings and other rubbish.
Refrain from throwing sand, sticks, stones, etc.
Stay off walls, fences, gates, and fire escapes.

Avoid use of dangerous toys, such as air rifles,
sling-shots, pea shooters, bows and arrows, etc.

See that bicycles, tricycles, scooters, etc., are
parked in a safe place, not laid on the ground
where children may fall over them. A separate
pamphlet covers the rules on bicycles. ‘

Play quiet games during the hottest part of
the day.

Avoid participating in activities which cause
you to become overheated.

It is unwise to drink large quantities of cold
liquids when very warm.

Avoid petting or molesting strange animals.

Prevent children from playing with matches.
Consult a supervisor before starting any fires
——such as burning rubbish.

. Consider every wire a live wire. Do not

handle any wires hanging from poles or build-
ings. If you find a wire, station someone to
guard it while you call a supervisor.

Do not attempt to lift heavy objects beyond
your strength. When lifting heavy objects,
bend the knees, keeping the back straight and
heels on the ground, using the legs for lever-
age and not your back.

r

 

HAT OPPORTUNITIES for war service are we
offering our children of elementary school

age-—too young to work, but still acutely.

conscious of the war and anxious to help?

“Victory Camps” was the answer of' South
Pasadena last summer, and so successful was the
venture that it will be repeated this year.

The Victory Camp is an organized program
operated as a modified co-recreational day camp
during July and August. The idea originated in
the mind of one of the local youth executives who
suggested that the youth agencies cooperate with
the Recreation Department in sponsoring an en-
larged summer playground program. This sugges-
tion was met with enthusiasm by the members of
the Youth Executive Council, a subsidiary organi-
zation of the Recreation Commission, now in its
third year. The Council is composed of the execu-
tives of the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls, and Y.M.C.A., a local minister who repre-
sents the Christian Youths Council, and the super-
intendent of recreation, with the chairman of the
Recreation Commission acting as chairman. These
organizations agreed to pool leadership, funds, and
program ideas in one large city-wide .youth pro-
gram. Thus the. Iirst important step had been taken.

Hearing of the project, the local Citizens’ Ser—
vice Corps invited the Council members, together
with representatives of the city schools, the public
library, and the Red Cross to come together for
further discussion of the plan. At the outset the
need for centralized leadership was apparent. A
woman widely known for her civic interest and
knowledge of youth problems
was selected as coordinator
for the program. She inter-
viewed civic leaders, sampling
opinions and ideas, and grad-

ually the program began to
evolve.

The schools were willing

16

Victory Camps

for

Children

. By MARGARET A. MORDY

Miss Mordy. who is the Supervisor of
Girls' and Women’s Activities of the-
California. Recrea-
tion Department. tells of the experi-
ment in community coOperation which

made last summer's playground program
outstanding in the history of the city.

South Pasadena.

 

to contribute facilities for part of the program.
The library would send a mobile unit to each
center one day a week. The Y.M.C.A. would be
responsible for organized sports for boys. The
Girl Scouts would spend the money usually al-
lotted to day camp operation for a specialist in
dramatics. The Red Cross would- hire a part-time
worker to plan, direct and conduct Junior Red
Cross activities. The Boy Scouts would teach
camp craft, and the Camp Fire Girls’ executive
would take charge of the handcraft program. The
Girl Scouts would teach outdoor cooking.

So the program grew, and interest increased.
The city’s Recreation Department, of course, car—
ried a heavy responsibility, for it agreed to provide
the paid leadership, the supervisor of the program,
a craft specialist, directors and play leaders for
each of the four centers, as well as the equipment
and supplies necessary for operation.

The Victory Camps could not have operated a
full well-rounded activity program, however, with-
out the aid of many volunteers. Each organiza-
tion was asked to submit lists of possible leaders,
individuals who had had previous training or ex-
perience in work with children, if possible, since
there was no time for any type of leadership
training course. Names were secured from the
files of the Citizens’ Service Corps. The chairman
of volunteers called each of these potential leaders
personally, and each was listed according to pre-
ferred location, activity, and time of service. The
results were amazing, for over ninety adults en-
thusiastically agreed to help. Most of these had
had experience in crafts,
music, dramatics, scouting,
public recreation programs,
or physical education which
could be of great value.

Details Are Worked Out

A surprising development

was the frequent question

RECREATION

VICTORY CAMPS FOR CHILDREN 17

from school principals, local
ministers, and parents, “But
aren’t you going to charge
anything for this splendid
program?”

The committee considered
the suggestion seriously.
Would a fee be violating pub—
lic recreation policies? This
was not a needy community.
Few, if any, children would
be excluded by a small fee. Would not parents and
children alike appreciate the program more if they
contributed a little to it? Accordingly, a fee of
$2.00 per child for the eight weeks’ period was
decided upon, with a $5.00 family rate for a family
covering more than two children. It was made
clear that no child would be excluded from the
grounds if he could not afford to pay.

The name “Victory Camp” was selected because
the program resembled a wartime substitute for
camping. It was more complete and more care-
fully planned than the playground programs of
preceding years, and therefore it would have more
appeal to the children enrolling in it.

Two days were set aside for enrollment at the
camps. Upon enrolling the child received a button
which stated, “I am a Victory Camper.” He was
registered on the director’s list, and a membership
card was filed for him. Upon completion of regis-
tration, each camp had an enrollment of ‘about
75 children. The total enrollment. for the four
camps was 300.

The Program

The over-all program was developed by the co—
ordinator, representing the cooperating groups,
and the playground supervisor. A sample day’s
program at one of the camps follows:
1:30-2:00 P. M. Assembly (music,

storytelling, committee reports, read-
ing of the log, etc.)

2:00-2:15 P. M. Distribution of sup—
plies

2:lS-3:30 P.M. Day's principal ac-
tivities (Junior Red Cross, crafts.
pottery, wood shop, outdoor cook—

ing, dramatics, library, folk danc-
ing, game activities varied each day)

3 :30 - 3 :45 P. M. Clean-up

3 :45 - 4 :00 P. M. Evaluation and sum-

mary, announcements for the fol-
lowing day

4:00-5:00 RM. Free play or or-
ganized sports

APRIL 1944

This is the story of the Victory Camp
program conducted last summer in South
Pasadena. California. a city of about
l5.000 residents. This year the pro-
gram will be headed by a Victory Camp
Board of Directors who will manage and
finance the program. with the Recrea-
tion Department furnishing all of the
facilities and some of the equipment.
The proiect will be expanded to in-
clude participants from 6 to 2| years.

Specialists visited each
camp once a week, and each
day differed slightly from the
preceding one in the activities
offered. In addition to the
planned program, quiet games,
dolls and toys, equipment for
playing house were provided
for the children not interested
in the planned program.

The camps became a prac—
tical laboratory in democratic living. Each child
served on a committee in a way which was essen-
tial to the successful operation of the camp. There
were clean-up committees, keepers of the log,
distributor of supplies, equipment custodians, li-
brarians, and Junior Red Cross leaders. Children
made their own safety rules, helped to conduct
assemblies, and solved many of the camp problems.

The Junior Red Cross activities proved to be
one of the most successful aspects of the Victory
Camps. Here the children found an outlet for
their desire for service. Their pride inithe mount-
ing piles of toys and presents for refugee children
and for soldiers was immense. They did careful
work and their contributions will be of real value
to those who receive them.

As an experiment in community cooperation the
Victory Camps have been a civic triumph in South
Pasadena. Never before have all groups worked
so hard or so many hours together in the achieve-
ment of a common cause. The children have been
given a wide-range program. It has been educa-
tional, but more than that it has been fun, fun to
play and learn and serve, fun to belong to a demo-
cratic society.

s)

   
 

Every afternoon at 3:30
there comes a l5 minute
clean-up period

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

MUSic on Summer Playgrounds

HE SUMMER of 1943 was a

musical one for the play-

grounds of Reading, Pennsyl-
vania. The tide of world events
was brought into the focus of recreation activities
through the selection of a musical theme as the
nucleus of the summer program, the title of which
was “Music Unites the Nations.” Heretofore, in
this musical-minded city, there had been little
emphasis placed on music as a primary interest in
child play. How to elevate this neglect of a basic
art to a position of importance was the chief
problem.

At the outset, the music supervisor compiled
and arranged a thirty-page Music Bulletin con-
taining words and music to varied songs suitable
for wide-range use. The numerous features of the
summer program, and especially the United Na-
tions theme, lent themselves to musical correla-
tion; the folk songs chosen for the Bulletin were
included with that factor in mind. In addition to
this basic reference manual, supplementary music
materials and pamphlets were issued to all play-
ground leaders from time to time.

The second hurdle to overcome was the fact that
only a minority of the fifty lead-
ers had had any experience in
organizing or directing
activities of a musical
nature. During the ten-
day leaders’ institute
preceding the opening
of playgrounds, the
music supervisor con-
ducted daily sessions'
devoted to group sing-
ing and song leading. In
these instructional per-
iods the leaders were
taught songs by rote,
and practiced conduet-
ing songs with the fun—
damental meters before
the entire group. In gen-
eral, they acquired the
rudiments which were
essential to overcoming
self-consciousness in
leading informal group

18

By ESTHER A. SROLE
Supervisor of Music— [.943
Reading. Pennsylvania

It's great fun to be. a member of
Reading's summer playground band

 

‘ t
wring“

Cmirtcsy Reading, Pa., Recreation Department

singing. Various approaches to
enthusiastic singing were ex-
plained and illustrated, such as
humming, whistling, clapping
rhythms, “detecting” tunes, group conducting, tune
combinations, nonsense songs, stunt songs, rounds,
and the game of .“carrying on the song,” with in-
dividuals singing successive phrases, plus other
musical games.

Music as a tonic for morale was the underlying
thread pervading the program. This key purpose
was expressed in a motto: “Get more people sing-
ing more songs!” With this as an incentive, the
leaders set to the task of motivating musical inter-
est among the children.

Singing—Any Time, Any Place!

As starters, provocative music posters were
placed on bulletin boards on every playground.
Informal daily song-fests were held at appropriate
times during the day—during intense heat, during
handcraft periods, after storytelling hours, and
alternating with quiet games and dramatics.
Emanating from these daily sings there arose the
natural follow-up desire to form choruses. The
children who were most inter-
ested in group singing met to-

gether at definite times
during the week, se-
lected fitting titles for
their organizations (for
example, the V ictory
Song Club), chose of-
licers, learned new
songs, reviewed old
favorites, kept musical
scrapbooks, and were
relied upon to partici—
pate as featured “art-
ists” on many special
programs. On Reading’s
thirty-three playgrounds
- there were twenty-four
of these small local
choruses, functioning as
the backbone of the en—
tire musical picture.

A novel device which
helped to motivate in-

RECREATION

MUSIC ON SUMMER'PLA YGROUNDS 19

terest was the choice of a “Song of the Day” and
“Song of the Week” on each playground. These
were selected favorites chosen by the children. At
the close of the season these titles resulted in a
“Hit Parade of Summer Tunes,” with a distinctive
list for every playground. It was gratifying to note
that the songs were in good taste and displayed
discriminating choice. Several attempts were made
at composing playground songs. The results were,
for the most part, original words set to familiar
tunes, lauding the spirit and fun to be found on
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Playground.

In addition to the vocal side, the instrumental
aspect was also utilized. Experimental rhythm
bands and kitchen bands were formed on several
playgrounds. However, the outstanding feature
was the city-wide playground band composed of
forty-live youngsters directed
by a playground leader with
instrumental experience. They
rehearsed two mornings
weekly at the Y.M.C.A. The
band,. in uniform, played. en-
gagements free of charge,
giving one-hour programs at
evening playground festivals
sponsored by Parents’ Play-
ground Associations. In addi-
tion, there were four munici-
pally-operated bands which
performed for public concerts throughout the sum-
mer season.

Music was introduced wherever possible to en-
hance the playground program. The daily routine
activities acquired new color with the extra lilt
that music contributed. Daily flag-raising cere-
monies which started the playground day were ac-
companied by patriotic songs such as, “This Is My
Country,” “You’re a Grand Old Flag,” and others.
Folk tales were interspersed with folk songs; sing-
ing games and interpreting rhythms were enjoyed;
music appreciation groups gathered around vic-
trolas; songs were gaily dramatized (for example,
the English folk song, “0, Soldier, Soldier”) ;
musical charades and action songs were panto-
mimed ; there was singing during and after folk
dancing festivals; war stamps were zealously sold
to the tune of appropriate parodies and jingles;
cautions for safety were sung in rhyme; adults and
children sang lustin on hikes and at picnics, at
festivals, at community sings, and concerts. Music
was “in the air” everywhere!

APRIL 1944

"You can have fun with music iust as
you can have fun with many other things
that you would not dream of considering
seriously as an accomplishment. least of
all from the professional standpoint.
The big advantage of music is that you
can play or sing or compose it by your-
self. It is not necessary for you to
show off your ability to other people.
or to compete with anyone else. So
long as you enjoy it. that is enough."—
Sigmund Spaeth in Fun With Music.

Special Events Featured by Music

The music supervisor issued weekly lists of
songs to be taught to the children, in keeping with
the summer theme and coming special events.
Music was incorporated as an integral part of
every outstanding program. "At the beginning of
the season, Fourth of July celebrations were woven
around numerous patriotic and service songs of
all types. Highlights of the season‘were the min-
strel shows, which lent themselves so well to musi-
cal-jamboree effects. Suggested songs for these
programs were “Shortnin’ Bread,” “Li’l Liza
Jane,” “Dixie,” “Camptown Races,” and a num-
ber of Stephen Foster melodies. The choruses in
blackface carried the bulk of these programs along,
with occasional solos and background eHects by
the “entire company.”

Pirate nights, which were
boisterous events, were made
more realistic by the singing
of nautical ditties, such as
“Sailing, Sailing,” “Nancy
Lee,” and “A Capital Ship,”
rendered by terrifying pirates.
Dramatic stunt nights in-
cluded musical stunts as “fill-
ers” between skits and play-
lets. Here again, playground
choruses supplied musical
backgrounds for pantomimes
and other novelty numbers.

Afternoon musical teas were informal gather-
ings of the “garden party” variety in which music
held sway in programs featuring the choruses in
various “roles,” with solos, duets, trios, both
vocal and instrumental. Refreshments were served
to heighten the proper atmosphere, For the most
part, these musical teas were organized and di-
rected by poised child conductors who, after sev-
eral weeks of musical participation, were sufiiciently
competent to take charge of informal get-togethers ’
of this nature. These programs were planned with
the purpose of ,embodying one of the amenities of
gracious social living into a playground environ-
ment.

At the End of the Season

The culmination of Reading’s musical summer
occurred with the presentation of a spectacular
music festival, “Music Unites the Nations,” per-
formed in the open-air Band Shell at City Park.
Weeks beforearehearsals were contemplated, the

20

music supervisor supplied
each leader with an outline
of the program. The songs,
dances, singing games, pan-
tomimes, and costumes in-
cluded authentic examples
from the folk art, music, and
literature of thirteen United
Nations. \Vith this summary
each leader received a “cue”
sheet indicating her duties
in helping to organize the
festival, and was requested
to choose a specified num-
ber of children for a desig-
nated part in the festival.
This plan insured represen—

tation of participants from all playgrounds.

At the biweekly staff conferences the music
supervisor reviewed the musical numbers with the
leaders, who in turn instructed the youngsters.

The most intensive
practice was re—
quired in training
the festival chorus,
which was com-
posed of members
from each of the
twenty-four small
choruses mentioned
above, to provide a
grand total of one
hundred singers for
the performance. ‘
After the leaders
had taught the
words and melodies
of the festival songs
over a period of
time to choristers on
their grounds. four
Sectional Chorus
rehearsals were
scheduled. t \hildren
from these areas of
the city met on suc—
cessive days on four
different play-
grounds where the
music supervisor
further review ed
with them the nu-
merous sr lllgS.“‘t irk-

MUSIC ON SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS

He was seated in a swing on one of the
playgrounds. gently .- sweeping his fingers
over the strings of a guitar. Crossing the
park came another boy who seated himself
in a second swing. Soon his voice was heard
ringing across the park as he sang a tune-
ful song to the accompaniment of the
guitar. The next day the two boys came
back with a third carrying a guitar.

"It was then," writes the director of
Brinkley Playground, Memphis, "that real
music began on our playgrounds." A spe-
cial place was made for the boys in the
program. Soon instruments arrived from
the recreation center—a toy piano, a drum
with cymbals, a tambourine. Then more
boys came, and now there are times when
the playground is alive with melody.



 

ing for special effects, and
striving for good tone qual-
ity, clear diction, and correct
interpretation.

Meanwhile, on her super—
visory visits, the music su-
pervisor checked on the
progress of the perfection
of the dances, pantomimes,
and singing games. During
the week prior to the music
festival performance, two
full rehearsals were held in
a centrally-located audi-
torium. The organ accom-
panist, the reader, boy so-
prano soloist, choristers,

pantomime groups, solo and group dancers, and
leading characters vigorously went through their
paces. The entire dress rehearsal, with a cast of
two hundred, took place on the day preceding the

big event.

The “ M usic
Unites the Nations”
festival, dedicated
to the children of
the United Nations,
was a colorful eve-
ning affair which
lasted one and one-
half hours. The
Playground Band
played a short in-
troductory pro-
gram, hefore the
costumed chorus of
one hundred chil-
dren (ranging in
age from seven to
sixteen), filed on to
the Band Shell,
singing “Marching
Along Together."
From this jolly be-
ginning, the pro-
gram moved
smoothly along
through a succes-
sion of songs and
dances from Great
Britain, Australia,

(Continued on
page 53)

Courtesy Memphis Park Commission

RECREATION

uThey Also Serve”

HE CHILDREN on the public playgrounds of

Reading, Pennsylvania, felt last summer that

they were playing a very definite part in the
war effort. They made and turned over to the
Junior Red Cross for distribution among the ser—
vicemen in hospitals 2,000 handcraft articles, in-
cluding jigsaw puzzles packed in neatly painted
boxes or cans, joke booklets, and sewing kits
known as “housewives.” They also made toys
which were sent by the Red Cross to institutions
for refugee children, and they helped in salvage
campaigns. To add interest, novel ways of col—
lecting the waste material were invented. One of
these was a scavenger hunt. The children on the
playground were divided into teams and given a
definite starting time and a time limit for the hunt.
'The list of objects to be hunted included broken
wrenches, pieces of chain, lead pipes, old iron

lamp stands, old water faucets, and wrecked car 

wheels. The scavenger hunt produced results!
Dull days will be brightened for many service—
men because of the handcraft work being done at
the recreation centers maintained by Philadelphia’s
Bureau of Recreation. During the year 10,487
articles were made and presented to the Ameri-
can Red Cross, Salvation Army, and Seamen’s
Church Institute. The majority of articles were
made from scrap material. Several large cartons

The schedule of Waterloo's Victory Wagon
included weekly trips to the playgrounds

 

APRIL 3944

——_‘_—T'

But they .didn't only "stand and wait"—
these children on America's playgrounds.
They were busy last summer serving their
country, their communities, and their play-
grounds. They made thousands of articles
for servicemen and for children in institu-
tions. They bought and sold war stamps and
bonds. and they collected tin cans. They
made a game of working and had lots of fun.
And of course they took time off to enjoy
the regular activities of the playground.

They'll work just as hard this summer—-
perhaps harder—for they're resourceful and
keep finding new ways to serve.

of velour, mohair, cretonne and chintz, donated by
an interior decorator, were transformed into lap
robes, hospital slippers, ditty bags, and needle
cases. Broom handles were sawed into disks and
painted for checkers. Colorful scrapbooks of cross-
word puzzles, quizzes, and laugh-lines were made
by the boys and girls. Afghans, bed socks, memo
pads, writing cases, and other articles were con-
tributed. ' -r I

“Your deal” and “What do you bid?” will be
heard more frequently on the ships at ‘sea‘ and in
base hospitals because of the drive for playing
cards held in Philadelphia’s recreation centers.
Eight hundred decks of cards in good condition
were contributed in a short space of time when
people were asked to search in closets and drawers
for cards and to contribute all surplus decks which
they found. The cards were given to the Seamen’s
Church Institute and to the Salvation Army.

Children of Long Beach, California, came into
direct participation in wartime activities through
certain handcraft projects sug-
gested by the Red Cross, scrap
metal drives, book and magazine
collection for servicemen, and
certain safety training related to
the program of civilian defense.
Indirectly the very noticeable in-
crease in model aircraft classes
undoubtedly reflected war in-
Huences.

The sale of war stamps and
bonds highlighted the program on
many a playground last summer.
The Recreation Commission of
Waterloo, Iowa, streamlined its
program when it sent a Victory
Wagon on weekly trips to 'the

21

22 ,

playgrounds. This War Stamp Trailer was very
p0pular and the small purchases of stamps by a
large number of children added up to an imposing
total. The amplified patriotic music drew the at-
tention of many of the city’s adults.

Playground children of St. Louis took an active
part in the sale of bonds and stamps, and total
sales up to August Ist passed the $25,000 mark.
' The Board of Education was given the use of
two jeeps, each with a driver, which visited the
playgrounds having the highest percentage of
purchases.

Every Friday children on the playgrounds of
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, opened their booths to
sell war bonds and stamps. The booths were made
and attractively painted by the children themselves,
and a total of $2,839.40 worth of bonds and stamps
(chiefly stamps) was sold during the six weeks of
this activity. The children of each playground
took special pride in working hard to get their
particular playground at the top of the list. An
adult committee was selected from each playground
to act as an advisory and sponsoring group. This
gave the project a standing in the community and
eliminated carelessness in the handling of stamps
and bonds.

Hundreds of children entered the war bond
slogan contest held in one city and produced such
winning slogans as “Buy Bonds and Stamps to
Make America Gigantic on the Atlantic and Ter-
rific on the Pacific”; “War Stamps Are Rivets in
the Bridge of Victory.” Local civic clubs and in-
terested citizens provided the funds for the war
stamp awards given the children who produced
the winning slogans.

The development of a Junior Defense Corps
provided an interesting-service activity in Mor-
gantown, West Virginia, where, under the
auspices of the Monongalia County Recreation
Council, children in each district registered with
their play leader; using the OCD- registration
blanks, and indicated in what capacity they would
like to serve. There were the Junior Air Raid
Wardens, Junior Auxiliary Police, Nurses Aides,
and other service groups. Each child supplied his
own equipment, interviewed his local OCD of-
ficial and assisted him with regular‘duties. Every
two weeks at each playground a demonstration
was held, such as a make-believe blackout, where
first aid was applied and all members were called
upon to execute their duties. Children brought
their own lunches, which were served canteen
style.

“THEY ALSO SERVE”

The crafts program was devoted to making arti-
cles suitable for army hospitals. The music pro-
gram, too, carried out the theme of national
defense and patriotic songs were sung. In the
drama program a one-act play contest was con-
ducted. Each ticket sold entitled the purchaser to
one war stamp.

An example of service to local playgrounds was

. provided by Dayton, Ohio, where a new organi-

\

zation for children, known as the “Plamandos,”
was sponsored by the Bureau of Recreation. Chil-
dren were taught to take care of expendable equip-
ment, to organize and manage teams, tell stories to
younger children, and perform other types of vol-
unteer service on the playgrounds. When the boy
or girl had given twenty-four hours of such ser-
vice, he or she was eligible for a citation from the
Office of Civilian Defense. The first occasion for
the presentation of such “citations occurred one
Sunday evening at the band shell during the inter-
mission of a band concert. The children accepted.
their responsibilities very seriously and were of
material assistance.

Writing in the Progressive Physical Educator on
“Recreation Objectives and Programs in War-
time,” Alfred H. Wyman urges recreation leaders
in all fields to keep constantly in mind three words
-——-Substitution, Improvisation, and Innovation.

Of “Substitution” Mr. Wyman says: “To be
able to substitute odds and ends of salvage or
native materials for prohibited materials causes all
recreation workers to be ingenious and creative.
The craft house in camp or the workshop at the
recreation center or in the school should be reor-
ganized on the basis of serving all other depart-
ments and branches of play service. . . . Our motto
in the arts and crafts department for the duration
might well be, ‘Not gadget but gameconscious.’ ”

“Improvisation” should inSpire us to convert
programs to meet preinduction needs. “Bringing
into play programs the ranger type of games can
be thrilling. . . . There is a great field in pioneer
and primitive sports and activities that even chil-
dren, and especially youth, will enjoy and from
which they will receive lasting benefits.”

Under “Innovation,” Mr. Wyman mentions
“Swimmando” activities. . . . “Here is the play
leader’s chance to substitute for the standard
aquatic and athletic events a new program of
splashless strokes, floating with packs on impro-

. vised rafts, and‘crossing rivers without bridges.”

RECREATION

-Some Wartime Programs for Girls

HEN THE WATERBURY, CONN., Girls’ Club
W last summer undertook its vacation project
. —a camp for seventy-five girls—it decided
that the girls would feel they had a greater stake in
the war effort if they were put in an atmosphere
savoring of the military. The camp was accord-
ingly called the “Junior WAC Camp,” and the girls,
while having as much fun as ever, were given
responsibility for seeing that the work of the camp
was done. Each girl made her ownz‘bed, groups
attacked the dishes, and the younger ones cleaned
the camp grounds, picking up papers and sharp
stones from the road.

To give a further military touch, each girl was
given a rank. The youngest girls and the first to
come to camp were called buck privates, but as
they proved their helpfulness they were moved up
the scale to private first class, corporal, and ser-
geant. Counselors were called third officers;
the assistant director, captain; and the director,
colonel. “Orders of the day” were read; the honor
camper was called “officer of the day” and in-
spected the camp with the colonel.

Worcester Girls, Too, Do War work

The Worcester Girls’ Club as its contribution to
war work extended its regular summer program
to include the children of war workers. Beginning
in July 3. day care center was Opened at the club.
Taking their cue from the Waterbury club, the
services of thirty girls, twelve years old and over,
were enlisted. These girls, called Junior WACs,
cared for the small children and supervised them
in games, at the rest period, and at lunch hour.
The Junior WACs themselves were under the
supervision of three staff members, assisted by five
volunteers, women who had enlisted at the Office
of Civilian Defense and had taken a course in
nutrition at the club.

During the afternoon when the children were
being taken care of by staff members, the Junior
WACs were given instruction
in canning, bread making and
dressmaking. The girls made
their own uniforms, which were
the regulation Red Cross can-
teen style and very attractive.
Twenty hours of service were
required for a certificate.

APRIL 1944

What activities can we plan for girls
which will help them feel they have a
real part in the war effort? The ma-
terial presented here. which has been
taken from the Bulletin issued by the
Eastern Association of Girls Clubs of
AmericaI gives some interesting facts
about programs in a number of cities.

   

Print by Gedge Harmon

At the end of the summer most of the girls had
averaged eighty hours of service, and four had
given 105 hours. At a little ceremony certificates
were awarded by a lieutenant, the head of the
WAC recruiting office in Worcester. Special
awards were given for excellence in canteen work,
child care, crafts, and general helpfulness.

Because of the success of the summer course, the
WAC program was carried into the regular club
program in the fall. The girls who had the benefit
of the summer- coufse are now assisting in train-
ing new members while enjoying their own“
course, to which have been added first ‘aid, home
nursing and a doctor’s health course. The training
in each subject covers five weeks, at the end of
which a chevron is awarded. At the end of fifteen
weeks, chevrons are pinned on uniforms, certifi-
cates are awarded and officers chosen to assist in
training the new group. During the fifteen-week
period of required subjects, an optional course in
setting up exercises is given three times a week.
A chevron is-awarded for this.

The VVACs have assisted in outside services
such as folding and arranging of Girls’ Club pam—
phlets to be sent to all the
schools, .and enclosing Com-
munity Chest flyers in Electric
Light Company bill envelopes.
At One of Newark’s Centers

Peshine Avenue Community

Center in Newark, N. J.,
(Continued on page 51)

23

 

l-low Recreation Grew
in Millburn

ILLBURN, NEW JERSEY, for a long time needed
M a public recreation program! To be sure,
Millburn Townsh‘ip had a number of private
clubs providing social and recreational activities
for their members, but facilities were available to a
relatively small proportion of the citizens. It had,
too, the Neighborhood Association, a social ser-
vice organization financed by public subscription,
which in addition to its general social service ac-
tivity was doing some excellent work with small
children chiefly of preschool age. The town, how-
ever, was lacking in such institutions as Y.M.C.A.,
Y.V\-".C.A. or a Boys’ Club with facilities, and
/Millburn needed an all-around public recreation
system which would serve all the Millburn citizens.
The first step toward securing this program was
taken in 1915 when the Hartshorne Estate set
aside and equipped a small plot of ground. This
small playground is supervised by the visiting
nurse of the Neighborhood Association.

Another step forwardzwas taken in 1924 when
Mrs. John Taylor purchased fifteen acres of un-
developed land in the center of the town, com-
pletely landscaped the property, equipped it with
recreation facilities, and presented it to the town-
ship. At the presentation on May 30, 1924, the
park was named “Taylor Park” in honor of the
donor.

In 1925 the first full-time recreation worker was
appointed and her salary was paid by a public—
spirited resident. The supervision given by this
full-time worker proved so satisfactory that at the

end of the first year the Township assumed her
salary.

24

Millburn is fortunate in having an
attractive recreation building
located in the center of Taylor
Park near the shore of the lake

By GEORGE H. BAUER

Supervisor of Recreation

Millburn. New Jersey

Between 1925 and 1934 there was a steady de-
velopment of the recreation program until in 1934
there was a full—time man director and a woman
assistant and secretary. In the summertime five
additional playground workers and a lifeguard
were employed, and in the winter, part-time lead-
ers for evening activities were added in the school
buildings.

A very attractive and substantial recreation
building was constructed in 1934 with Federal aid.
Located in the center of the park near the shore of
the lake, this building houses the office of the De-
partment and is the center of all activities.

On January I, 1936, under the authority of the
State Statutes, a Recreation Commission consist-
ing of three citizens was appointed and all recrea-
tional functions were placed under its jurisdiction.
The maintenance and care of park property was
also placed under its supervision with the excep—
tion of the trees and shrubbery, Hower beds, and
walks, which continued under the care of the
Shade Tree Commission.

From about 1933 to 1940 the Recreation De-
partment had the assistance at most times of two
or three recreation leaders furnished by the WPA
without cost to the Township, making operation of
the Department on a lower budget possible during
that period. Toward the close of 1940 this aid was
discontinued.

Today the park and all recreation activities come
under the supervision of the Recreation Commis-
sion consisting of three citizens appointed for three
year terms by the Chairman of the Township
Committee. To effect the necessary coordination
between functions of the Board of Education, the
Shade Tree Commission and the Township Com-
mittee, the Commission as a rule is made up of
one member from each of these groups.

One of the most important functions of the Mill-
burn Recreation Department is the afterschool
playground leadership which it furnishes in co-

(Continucd on page 49)

RECREATION

Mrs. Francis  Torrance

III-Z NATIONAL RECREATION movement has lost a great friend in the death of Mrs. Francis J.

Torrance of Sewickley, Pennsylvania, who died at her home in January after a long illness.

For twenty-five years Mrs. Torrance believed in, cared for. and worked for the National
Recreation Association. Those who came to know her were always deeply impressed with the
enthusiasm and Spirit with which she entered into the work of the Association and what was
being done for children and adults in communities throughout the country. The range of her
interest was wide. Nothing provincial or purely local entered into her consideration of what was
being planned.

Mrs. Torrance with rare vision saw the important place contributors have in the recrea—
tion movement. She gave regularly and generously herself and helped to get others to give. She
earnestly wanted others to share in the pleasure of giving which she enjoyed. She was ready also
to help finance special projects. She believed in leadership. “Personality is more important than
brick and mortar,” she said. She read reports eagerly and took great pleasure in seeing prog-
ress being made. In the face of difhculties her faith was always that problems would be met.

She always wanted to meet and talk directly with staff workers who were carrying on the

work. She always sent them away with renewed spirit.

Workers and leaders in children’s institutions all over America will remember with grati-
tude the service rendered through the Francis  Torrance Memorial Field Secretary for Play in
Institutions, a service established by Mrs. Torrance in memory of her husband who had had a

. special interest in orphans, cripples, the aged and others who had to live in institutions. The utter
lack of recreational activities in many such institutions at that time led her to finance and start

that service. -

Mrs. Torrance was very happy in'thinking of her daughter and grandchildren becoming
interested in the work of the Association. She rejoiced that her daughter, Mrs. Horace F. Baker,
and her son-in-law, Horace F. Baker, a prominent lawyer and a leading citizen of Pittsburgh,
serve as sponsors of the Association. She looked forward to the time when her grandchildren

would be ready to help and work for the Association.

The recreation movement is stronger and richer in spirit because of the twenty-five years

of service and generosity of Mrs. Francis J. Torrance.

All in the National Recreation Association think of this friend, contributor, and Honorary

I Member with gratitude and affection.

APRIL 1944 ‘ 25

Full Speed Ahead in Dallas!

EEPING IN MIND the rec-
K creational interests of all

age groups, the Park and
Recreation Department of
Dallas, Texas, is going full
speed ahead with its plans for a well-rounded play-
ground program this summer.

For the playground children there’ll be hand-
craft, art classes, Joseph Lee Playday, plays, boys’
and girls’ clubs, athletic tournaments, swimming
and junior lifesaving classes, team competition,
golf 'and tennis classes, and many other activities.

The older folks, too, will be a part of the play-
ground program with activities for adults includ~
ing games and sports, art classes, and assistance in
planning recreation at home for the family. Be-
cause of transportation restrictions, emphasis will
be on local community programs and participation
rather than on city-wide events.

Arts and Crafts

The handcraft program will include making pos-
ters, beach shoes, novelty pins, games, sand model-
ling, seed craft, crepe paper and spool weaving, clay
modeling, nature scrapbooks, finger painting, art
classes, puppetry, papier-maché craft, belts, but—
tons, basket weaving, and holiday crafts. A local
playground craft exhibit will be held the last two
weeks of the summer with a city-wide craft exhibit
at the annual Elephant’s Birthday Party which is
always the climax of the summer playground pro-
gram and usually attracts about 4,000 children.
Each playground will be responsible for twenty
craft articles to be used as prizes at the bingo
game table which is one of the most p0pu1ar at-
tractions at the annual Joseph Lee Playday.

A special activity for the summer will be the out-
door sketching and art classes on the playground
conducted by the art supervisors who will also give
illustrated story hours, using both chalk sketches
and doll and puppet characters enacting the story
on a small portable theater.

Playdays!
Joseph’s Lee’s favorite games, contests, tourna-
ments, outdoor square dancing, social dancing,

bingo and_ band concerts are part of the Joseph
Lee Playday program which is always attended by

26

By LILLIAN SCHWERTZ

Supervisor

Playgrounds and Community Centers
Dallas. Texas, Park Board

almost 4,000 children. The
presentation of the dramatic
program and the singing of
Joseph Lee’s favorite songs
come during the grand finale.

Weekly playdays will be scheduled at Fair Park
Civic Center and amusement park with four or five
playground groups participating each week. Visits

I to the Aquarium, Museum of Fine Arts, Museum

of Natural History, and the Historical Museum
with guides accompanying each group will be in-
cluded in the day’s program along with swimming,
picnicking, free rides on the ferris wheel, merry-
go-round, rides on live ponies, and free tickets to
other amusement concessions.

Drama and Music

The annual Junior One Act Play tournament
will be held in the outdoor amphitheater at one of
the parks. For the past two years the winning
plays in the tournament were presented again at
Joseph Lee Playday. However, this year an oper-
etta is being planned—written and composed by a
member of the recreation staff.

In music, the outstanding song leaders in Dallas

" have always given many hours of volunteer service

conducting community sings and it is expected
that they will continue to do so this summer. The
Federation of Women’s Music Clubs and the Fifth
Ferrying Command Band have also conducted
musical programs on the playgrounds as part of
community night programs.

Clubs for boys and girls are organized at each
playground with simple parliamentary laws being
taught as part of the activity. Each playground is
required to have one club for boys and one for
girls.

Swimming

Plans are under way for an extensive “Learn to
Swim” program to be conducted at the thirty
junior swimming pools. There are two qualified
Red Cross swimming instructors on the summer
supervisory staff who teach swimming and con-
duct junior lifesaving classes. Local swimming
meets are held at the junior pools with local cham-
pions competing in the city-wide meet which is put
on at one of the larger municipal pools.

RECREATION

FULL SPEED AHEAD IN DALLAS! 27

Daily swimming with an hour each for girls and
boys is part of the planned playground pro-
gram. An average daily attendance at these junior
pools is 115 boys and girls. In addition to the
swimming hours, wading periods, with the pools
drained to a depth of eighteen inches, are con-
ducted for children under seven years of age. Local
water pageants and regattas will be stressed this
summer instead of the city-wide water pageant
that has been held in the past.

Sports of All Kinds

Local tournaments in horseshoes, croquet, pad-
dle tennis, shuffleboard, and volley ball will be
part of the regular program with the customary
city-wide competition being eliminated.

Interpark competition will be conducted in soft-
ball and junior hard ball. The champions from the
districts will play for the city championships in the
following divisions : Midgets—boys under 12 years
of age; Juniors——-boys under 14 years of age;
Seniors—boys under 16 years of age; and Girls—
under 18 years of age. The average number of
teams in these four divisions is around I40 and a
junior baseball league is conducted for older boys
who do not care for the softball
program. For the past two sea-
sons some of the
games for night
p l a y w e .r e
scheduled on
t h e l i g h t e (1
hard ball and
softball dia-

monds.

Last summer
tennis clubs
were organized
a n d t e n n i s
classes were
conducted at
li v e of t h e
parks. This ac-
tivity was en-
thusiastically
received by be-
ginners inter-
ested in learn-
ing to play ten-
nis and many

newcomers en-
tered the city-

APRIL 1944

You begin your baseball training at
an early age. if you live in Dallas!

 

wide municipal junior tournament as a result of
these classes.

Free golf classes for girls and boys at the two
municipal golf courses were introduced last season
as an emergency measure to provide recreation for
the teen-agers after the infantile paralysis epidemic
necessitated the closing of all swimming pools and
playgrounds. However, it is doubtful that this
same service will be offered again this summer.

For Adults

Activities for adults include volley ball, tennis,
horseshoes, croquet, roque, outdoor sketching and
art classes, and participation in community night
programs. Mothers and fathers were used as vol-
unteers on the playgrounds although with a large
percentage of adults now working in war indus-
tries, there will probably not be much volunteer
service this summer.

Under the instruction of a year-round art super-
visor, classes for adults as well as children are held
at the community centers. The women’s art classes
serve as a hobby outlet for many housewives and
mothers, and last year there were over 100 paint-
ings on display at the Southwest Recreation Con-
ference held in Dallas. Last
August through the cooperation
of the Museum
Of Fine Arts an
eXhibit of adult
W o r k w a 3
shown with a
.committee of
local artists aCt-
ing as judges.
Five thousand
persons visited
this exhibit, and
future exhibits
of paintings of
both children
and adults will
be held at the
Museum.

Realizing the
need of assist-
ance for moth-
ers in planning
home recrea-
tion activities
due to the in—

(Continued on -

page 48)

 

Print by Gedge H armors

It's Fun to Play Sate

EACHING through
I play is not a new

technique, but it is
one which is being ap-
plied to an ever-widening
field of activities. One of these
has been the playground safety
club program sponsored for the
past three years by the Recrea-
tion Department of the Minne—
applis Park' Board on the city
playgrounds.

Safety measures and accident prevention have
been taught for years by the time-honored method
of “do” and “don’t”’on the basis of personal ap-
peal. In our program the attempt has been made
to minimize the negative side of accident preven-
tion and build up the positive approach through
the introduction of competition in the practice of
safety methods, and by dramatizing the conditions
under which accidents are likely to occur, in this
way instilling in each club member a sense of per-
sonal responsibility for developing safety habits.

Safety aid -clubs are organized on each play-
ground. Any boy or girl twelve years of age or
under, who wishes to become an aid, signs a mem-
bership card and takesthe safety pledge of his or
her playground. As each playground has its own
particular safety hazard, these pledges differ. A
lake in a playground, for example, means a water
hazard; accordingly, on‘this playground special

28

'Whether on the playground or at a
picnic in the park' you'll be hap-
pier it you remember to play safe!

By LORETTA GALVIN
Recreation Staff
Board of Park Commissioners

Minneapolis. Minnesota -

emphasis is placed on
water safety. Playgrounds
near busy highways pre-
sent trafiic hazards, so
children are taught the
safe way of crossing streets in
going to the play areas. The safety
aid not only helps.the younger
children to reach the playground
safely, but he becomes a good ex-
ample for all the children by him-
self obeying the laws of safety.

Weekly meetings are held on every playground.
The meetings are conducted by the safety aid of-
ficers, and the playground leaders, who are always
present, serve merely as advisors. The aids deter-
mine their own methods for advancement. Some
of the playgrounds base their organization on
Army procedure, others on Navy methods. For
example, after a boy or girl becomes a safety aid,
he or she must serve an apprenticeship before ad-
vancing to the rank of corporal or first class sea-
man. A first class safety aid may wear ,a badge;
then, by earning merits, he can eventually become
a general or admiral. There is only one command-
ing ofiicer, who acts as president of the club and
who has a staff of ofiicers from the administrative
groups of aids. This group_decides the policies of
the aids.

Merits are usually awarded for the following:

(Continued on page 48)

RECREATION

Mississippi—A Table Game From Quebec

HE GAME OF MISSISSIPPI is played in nearly all
Tthe French Canadian colleges in the Province

of Quebec although, for no apparent reason, it
had never been played outside of the schools. When
we introduced it here to adults it was an immedi-
ate success—so much so that now there are four
games at the Recreation Center with additional
games built for the recreation halls in the Com-
pany’s camps.

Costing about fifty dollars to build, Mississippi
is more popular here than shufiieboard, table ten-
nis, and the dozens of table games on the market.
The upkeep is very slight, and the game can be
set up and taken down quickly. All in all, digging
Mississippi out of college basements has been a
major discovery as far as an indoor game for
adults in this Province is concerned.

By way of equipment, a game board, 15’ x2’,
mounted on trestles 28 inches high, is needed. The
playing surface, 12’ x 2’, should be made of hard-

wood flooring and kept well waxed. The box-like '

contraption in each end of the game is to catch the
disks and is usually 1% feet, but can be cut down

to 6 inches. The

ends are padded
to prevent the
disks from fly-
ing around—on
the same princi-
ple as the canvas
or leather pads
in bowling alleys.
Leather is desir-
able for padding
as it wears bet-
ter. The wood
should be sanded
down to] elimi-
nate the possi-
bility of splinters.
The disks, or
shooters, are
Inade of hard
wood 2% inches
in diameter by I
inch thick, and
are painted black
and white. ' l
S in g l e s o r

APRIL .1944.

By STANLEY ROUGH
Recreation Director
Aluminum Company of Canada. Ltd.
Arvida, Province of Quebec

doubles can be played in Mississippi. To start the
game, the players toss for the first chance and then
take turn about in shooting. Each player has four
disks. The object of the game is to get as many
of the disks near the end of the board as possible.
Players must stand behind the end board to Shoot.
Disks cannot be thrown but must be slid'along the
surface, and those which are knocked into the end
of the boxes do not count.

After each player has finished his four shots one
point is counted for each of the winning disks. If
any part of a disk is over the edge of the playing
surface it counts three points. Game is eleven or
twenty-one points.

 

Now: It is suggested that anyone wishing more infor-
mation about this game write Mr. Rough.

 

29

   

 
 

m WRER.
, BOYS, ALL GREAT
RULERS 0? .‘ma mam
goo-$1 STARTED mats
uKE YOURSELVEQ.

HAT CHANCE do our younger boys have to
W play hard ball? What do they know about

the game? Is their knowledge and experi-
ence merely a “sport sheet” matter, or is the great
national game actually theirs from experience?
Have they come to their rightful heritage through
actually playing the game?

As an answer to this question, the Milwaukee
Municipal Recreation Department early in the
spring of 1936 launched a “kids’ ” hard ball program
on a large scale. The name given the league was
“Stars of Yesterday,” and it was for boys under
15 years of age. Each team was named after a
former Milwaukee Brewer ball player. Such former
heroes as Stoney McGlynn, George McBride, Ken
.Keltner, and many others were honored. Com-
mercialism was kept entirely out of the program.
Used balls were donated by the president of the
Milwaukee Baseball Club; catchers’ masks were
given by the Umpires’ Association. Sporting goods
houses lent a hand by giving the league odds and
ends. To top it off, a city-wide search of attics and
long unopened trunks furnished more valuable
equipment. More than fifty teams enrolled the first
year and the number has gradually increased with
a new record of eighty—five teams playing this past
season.

Stars of Yesterday games are played Saturday
mornings in several sections of the city, thus elimi-
nating long trips all over the city. Competent
umpires are assigned by the Municipal Athletic
Office. Winners of the various sectional leagues

3O

  

Courtesy Call Bulletin
San Francisco

Stars of Yesterday

    
 

Although only a few of the boys tak-
ing part in the "Stars of Yesterday"
program will ever reach the heights
of baseball. each of them will later
treasure the experience he had in

youth of having played, as an Ameri-
can boy, the great American game

meet in an elimination tournament to de-
cide a north and south divisional winner.
These two finalists play at the Milwaukee
ball park under “big league” conditions
with uniforms, loud speaker system, elec-
tric scoreboard, and with President
Bendinger of the Milwaukee Baseball Club tossing
the first ball, and American Association umpires

“calling ’em.”

All the boys need to play in the league is a
dollar forfeit fee with which to enter their team.
This fee is returned to the boys if they complete
the season without forfeiting. All catchers’ equip—
ment and balls are furnished, and, in addition,
Midget teams are given the use of bats. The boys

furnish only fielder’s mitts.

A Baseball School

A year after the Stars of Yesterday league was
organized, the Recreation Department sponsored
its first “kids” baseball school. Bunny Brief,
former Brewer and Association star, was the
coach for the youngsters the first year, holding
classes on several playgrounds during the entire
baseball season. Boys between the ages of IO and
17 years were eligible to attend the special courses.’
The following year Bunny was given an oppor-
tunity to get back into professional baseball as the
manager of the Wausau Club. To’ replace him, a
home town product, Jack Kloza, ex-big leaguer and
Brewer, was appointed. “Professor” Kloza began
his promotional work before the start of the season,
appearing at various schools, churches, and clubs
throughout the city with an illustrated baseball
talk. During the season Kloza conducted the regu-
lar baseball classes much on the original order.
Both years that Kloza has headed the school his
attendance has run over 6,500 at the lectures, and

( C outimted on page 48)

RECREATION

II-

The Fifth Freedom

0 THE FOUR FREEDOlus
Tthere might well be
added a fifth—Freedom
of Cultural Expression as
every person may conceive

In nothing is this more
concretely demonstrated
than in a. presentation of
folk dances, music and simi-
lar lore, and this you will
see at its best in the Eleventh Annual Festival
to be sponsored by the Evening Bulletin Folk As—
sociation in the historic Academy of Music in
Philadelphia, May 10—13, inclusive.

To the spectators this will be a smoothly-mov-
ing, well-ordered, and colorful sequence of events,
producing a cross section of the native cultural
folk expressions of our country and those brought
from foreign shores. Even more than that, it will
be a revelation to all those “with ears to hear and
eyes to see,” of a rich heritage which should be
preserved at all costs—even to be fought for if
necessary. Moreover those
“down front” will find it a

By HELEN G. SOMMER
Washington, D. C.

We go behind the scenes at the
National Folk Festival and meet
It- the people who are preserving
our tolklore and fighting tor
treedom of cultural expression

thrilling way in which to
learn authentic facts about
the cultural expressions of
the people of our country of
every section, national strain,
race and color.

But those working “back—
stage” to bring about this
panorama of folk culture
are given a closer perspec—
tive. They come to know
the performers as people, and the camaraderie
deve10ped there is carried over to the stage—
although in a less boisterous form.

An Alice-in-Wonde'rland Journey

A first excursion into this behind—the-scenes
panorama is much like Alice’s magic trip down the
famous rabbit hole. For there one sees pe0ple who
until that moment of meeting were characters
vaguely familiar through the medium of school
books, mostly history. Here, through a benevolent
providence, plus the added effort of a large group

of folklore specialists, one
comes face to face with

The Ukrainian Dancers from Cleveland. Ohio.
thrill the audience with their performance

 

APRIL 1944

31

32 ' THE FIFTH FREEDOM

real Indians, right off the reservation, or pictur—
esque ballad singers from the famous Ozark region.
Once this phenomenon has been witnessed, it will
always be the treasured souvenir of a happy time,
come what may to crowd it from memory.

On opening day you walk through the stage
entrance, getting a thrill from the pass you carry,
possibly your first, and the badge so bravely pinned
to your lapel. There’s always the chance, you tell
yourself, that some naive person will mistake you
for a participant and ask for your autograph! Take
that in your stride, it’s nothing to what you are
headed for! Your introduction to performers be-
gins as you round a corner and find yourself part
of a crowd watching some dozen Indians in full
war paint and regalia, who,
to the rhythmic beat of
tom-toms, are rehearsing

 

\

of some Negro children. Whenever he pauses they
shout for more.

Managing it by great effort of will, you proceed
upward. Gaining the top of the stairs a peculiarly
haunting melody is wafted though the door of a
room to your left, stopping you on the spot—and
by this time your’ main purpose for being in a rush
seems to have become pushed into the background!
You softly advance toward the door, following the
melody. Your curiosity definitely aroused, you
peek around the corner and see a group of Negroes
clustered around a seated figure with head thrown
back and eyes closed, strumming a guitar accom-
paniment to their barely audible rendition of that
old spiritual, “Ezekiel Saw de Wheel.” You drink
in the enchanting melody
as it pours from those
dusky throats in soft mel-

the beautiful Hunters
Dance. Standing around
them in wide—eyed amaze-
ment is a group of Ken-
tucky hill folk—one old
man clutching his guitar
and gently swaying to the
beat of the music; another,
his fiddle forgotten for the
moment, watches com-
pletely lost in admiration
and wonder.

‘ You hufry on——your

Many years agoI when the day's work was
done, the older folk would tell the younger
generation the weird tales of gods and men.
of ghosts and fairies and animals. which they
had heard their own fathers tell. They sang
the stirring songs of battle and the mournful
ballads which had been handed down from
a remote past. Mothers crooned to babies
lullabies almost as old as the human race.

When the harvest had been gathered in. or
when the magic fingers of spring were awak-
ening the flowers from their sleep, groups of
young men and maidens danced the strange
dances that others before them had danced
for untold centuries. Even today, all over the
worldI these ancient tales and songs and

low cadences, and at its
close ask for more. As they
begin, “Listen to de
Lambs,” you, too, begin to
,hum with them, for you
feel the all-pervading spirit
of peace evoked by these
old harmonies. The sincer-
ity of this tremendous ex-
hibition of folk traditions
is brought home to you
with such force you want
to go right out and tell

watch tells you it is peril-
ously close to curtain time

and there are so many last

minute details for which you've assumed respon-
sibility. At the door your progress is stopped by
two handsome cowboys here for the festival to
give a faithful reproduction of their famous Anson
Cowboys’ Christmas Ball. At present, however,
they are more concerned with trying to master
some steps from a Morris Dance being taught
them by an enthusiastic group of English Folk
Dancers from the School of Organic Education in
Fairhope, Alabama. The cowhands get their high-
heeled boots and spurs tangled, but they're per-
sistent and you feel certain“ that eventually the
dance will be roped and tied to their mutual satis-
faction, for such concentration deserves a reward!

You are about to mount the stairs when over in
a corner you see an old fiddler, totally oblivious to
his surroundings, “going to town” on his fiddle to
the strains of “Old Zip Coon,” much to the delight

dances still live — our folklore.

 

F

everyone about the im-
portance of keeping these
expressions alive!

I

Because They Work Together

These people who participate have a feeling of
responsibility and oneness with the director, lead-
ers, and sponsors toward making each perform-
ance the best. Although they work without re-
muneration, each does all within reason to make it
as entertaining and instructive as possible. They
don’t mind answering the many questions‘strang-
ers are constantly asking about their music, the
part-of the country they are from, why they dress
as they do when they sing their songs and dance
their square dances. Once their confidence is won,
they will treat you as one of themselves. They’ll
even give you an unscheduled performance with-
out too much coaxing, right on the-spot.

A better understanding results between people
from the far corners of our country thus meeting
and playing together. The Easterners are amazed

RECREATION

THE FIFTH FREEDOM 3.5

that the Indian’s main
object in life is somewhat
like their own; that his
prime concern is not to see
how many scalps he can
acquire for his belt! Should
he by any chance be sport-
ing a tomahawk, it will
only be used as a prop to
give his dance the proper
atmosphere. The Indian, in
turn, will find his white
brother willing and ready
to be friendly.

Some people are amazed
to learn a cowboy’s life
does not entirely consist of
roping and branding steers
or chasing cattle rustlers.
You’ll discover hill folk
from Tennessee, the Caro-
linas and Kentucky who
do venture forth from the
confines of their cabins without the proverbial
shotgun or little brown jug. The city folk discover
a certain poise and sophistication in their hill
cousins that is usually glimpsed only in the fin-
ished concert artists with whom they are familiar.

Toward the end of the festival one begins to sort
out and classify certain outstanding impressions,
and one of these high spots—a most significant one
which impresses itself indelibly upon the mind—is
the eagerness with which group meets group, some
for the first time and others renewing old friend-
ships formed at previous festivals. Their ancient
heritage has given them a common meeting ground,
their music a universal medium of exchange, and
they feel a kinship which only comes through long
years of association. Their cooperation back stage
is something that makes you feel all men are.
indeed, brothers, and it gives a warm feeling of
belonging. You forget that your feet hurt, that
there is no more aspirin for the head which seems
about to burst, and that in excitement you skipped
lunch! Whatever task has been placed before these
folks they’ve performed, and in between times
they’ve kept up drooping spirits with a running
fire of song and dance. Pe0ple who can sing and
dance so constantly are definitely happy. They
don’t have to tell you—you just know.

If you’ve a minute to Spare and can find an un-
occupied corner and stand apart, you realize
America is passing in review. Such contemplation.

APRIL 1944

 

Montreal sends the French Canadian
Singers with their delightful songs

however, proves difficult when your hands are full
of notes, your mind is going over last minute pro—
gram changes, and you’re answering the thousand
and one inquiries from participants. Who can
compete with an orchestra rehearsing “Money
Musk” on one side, the strains of “Barbara Allen”
coming from another direction, and here and there,
snatches of fiddle tunes from groups as they come
off stage and others wait to go on?

All this change of color, shifting movement and
music is not disordered but seems to be unifiedly
working toward a definite goal. It isn’t a confusion
of sound, as one might imagine, rather a unisonant
symphony-“which is America united—as we are
privileged to know our country.

Folklore—~a Part of Themselves

The beauty of the festival lies in the fact of its
simplicity. The natural spontaneousness of the
dances, the rendition of ballads which these per-
formers achieve, could never be equalled by the
most celebrated artist. Their performances are so
much a part of themselves and their everyday lives
they do not think twice about what they are doing.
You see them as they appear in the fields, their
kitchens, and with their children, at everyday,
homey tasks, as they sing these lovely melodies
and tell their tall stories and legends. Their dances

34 THE FIFTH FREEDOM

are faithful replicas of the way they spend their
community evenings together when the day’s work
is over. These people have not recently acquired
these tunes, dances, and legends; they are merely
the continuation of the things they’ve been doing
for generations in their communities all their lives,
wherever their pioneering spirit has led them, and
they do all of them for their own enjoyment and
satisfaction. ~They have roots back in the past
centuries, and they come from them as simply and
naturally as they draw the breath of life.

Folklore evolves from the desire to retain some—
thing of a former existence and ofttimes happier
life. Listen to the lonelycowboy songs; there is
the scent of sagebrush———-a vista of wide wind-
swept prairie, and once again you visualize pioneers
with all their worldly possessions piled within a
covered wagon forging ahead, building as they go
for future generations. Forced, many times, to give
up home and friends, they pushed farther on into
wilderness seeking space, safety, freedom, and the
many things necessary to the happy wholesome
life they wish for their families. The dust bowl
families found it necessary, because of economic
pressure, to give up everything to seek greener
fields; the Mormon was obliged to go further into
the wilderness of an unknown land to find the
freedom he desired to worship according to the
dictates of his conscience. Always, along the way,
was the need to forget for a few minutes the ever-
present grim reality of the business of establishing
a home. What better escape than through song
and a lively dance tune? There were times when
an occasion demanded recognition; to keep the
incident fresh in their lives a song grew around it
and was thereafter handed down from generation
to generation.

An Association Which Preserves Folklore

Forming an organization to preserve these songs,
dances, and legends was a stupendous and some-
times thankless task—-—-but to one person, ten years
ago, came the vision of great numbers of people
clamoring for understanding, and articulate as to
the need to preserve their heritage. Because they
loved to sing the songs, perform their native
dances, and recount legends of their forebears, the
First folk festival was held in St. Louis in 1934.
As a result of that first festival, and because of the
need for preserving these vital folk expressions,
the National Folk Festival Association was formed.
At its head stands Sarah Gertrude Knott, Founder

and Director, outstanding folklore specialist, with-
out whose vision we would not be witnessing such
a great spectacle each year as the Folk Festival.
That it continues each year is due to the effort she
has expended; that it is staged and publicized with
such dignity is due to the wisdom and ability of
the business manager, Major M.  Pickering, who
has been with the Association since its infancy.

Though only eleven years old, the National
Folk Festival has made its mark and we feel will
continue the good work as it grows. Some of the
traditions it presents this year have forever disap-
peared from the native soil which knew them."I'he
transplanting has been attended with such care
that already they flourish within our borders. Let
us preserve the heritage entrusted to us.

NOTE: Those of our readers who have not be-
come acquainted with the National Folk Festival
will wish to know that it is being sponsored this
year by the Evening Bulletin Folk Festival Asso-
ciation, and that anyone who wishes may attend.
A small admission is charged to help meet the
expenses of putting on the program.

The festival will have particular significance this
year in view of the fact that the Overseas Branch
of the OWI is interested in making recordings of
the folk songs and instrumental music on the pro-
gram to transmit over the radio to European coun-
tries. The OWI is also interested in sending to
Europe publicity and pictures which will show
how foreign-born groups in this country are pre-
serving their folklore, and how such events as the
Folk Festival are helping to unify all nationalities
living in the United States.

In addition to the program of the festival, there
will be a small handcraft exhibit in the foyer of
the Academy where the festival will be held. It
will be made up chiefly of the handcrafts of the
groups taking part in the program.

.The Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, which is
sponsoring the festival for the second year, is
publishing a new booklet on community folk fes—
tival plans prepared by the Festival Association.
It will include a comprehensive bibliography and
a “search-for-material” division. Further infor-
mation about the booklet and the festival in gen-
eral may be secured from the headquarters of the
Association at 621 Bulletin Building, Filbert and
Juniper Streets, Philadelphia 7, Pa.

RECREATION

 

What's Happening on the West Coast?

" ATER and oil won’t
mix” is what people
said about the sail-

ors and aircraft workers

who had suddenly descended upon their Southern

California beach town. The USO director was

about to agree with them after trying in vain to

pull the two groups together, when she hit upon
the idea of a recreational cooperative.

It caught on immediately. A planning group of
forty young men and women, mostly aircraft work—
ers and technicians, drew up a constitution, a
board of directors was elected, and shares sold
rapidly to industrial workers at fifty cents each.
Servicemen and women received theirs free. The
possession of a share entitled one to voting privi-
leges and the right to help plan and carry out in—
teresting and diverting activities.

The “Co-op,” as it is affectionately labeled, has
attracted members rapidly. A special clubroom in
the USO was found and decorated where sailors,
soldiers, marines, WACs, WAVES, and SPARS
now mingle with workers in all sorts of activity.
The workers have purchased table tennis equip-
ment and victrola records ’
for this room. The Co—op
has had picnics and beach
suppers, at—
tended the thea-
ter in large
groups and has
had great suc-
cess with square
dancing, special
parties and
forums. No
longer do these
young men and
women feel like
outsiders or
members of
rival groups, for
now they plan
and work to-
gether. Started
primarily as a
Way in which
workers in the

APRIL 1944

By FLORENCE WILLIAMS
USO Consultant on Health and Recreation
for the National BoardI Y.W.C.A. ’

The members of the "Industrial Co-op" of
the USO Club of Santa Monica have voted
bicycle picnics a very popular activity

 

Public Relation: Dept, USO Division, National Board, Y.W.C.A.

great new war plants could
plan their own recreatiori
and pay for it themselves,
the Co-op has attracted the
military as well, although big dances and other ac-
tivities were already being carried on for the mili—
tary in the USO clubs.

The rise of such organized groups containing
members whose interests might be supposed to
differ widely is a war phenomenon on the West
Coast. To that coast of high mountains, blue
ocean, hot deserts, primeval forests and sophisti-
cated cities has been added a new kind of boom-
town jammed with today’s forty-ninersmthe war
production worker and the serviceman and woman.

As for the workers—they are not only new to
the community, but masses of them are completely
new to industrial work itself. Tens of thousands
of them are women, single women and married
women, the latter often the mothers of growing
families. This fact in itself poses new problems
both social and economic.

The work week is longer now and the pace on
the job is faster and more tiring. Rotating shifts
add to fatigue. Women work-
ers are harassed by weary-
ing efforts to do the family
wash or get it
done, to fix the
.plumbing or
find a plumber,
to do the mar—
keting or stand
in lin e in a
cafeteria.

Some com-
munities could
adapt them-
selves quickly
to the demands
and urgent
needs of their
new residents.
Others could
not. The pre—
war size of 'the
town had some-
thing to do with

 

35

36 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST?

 

No one can dance all the time. and so
these war workers at a barn dance at
South Tacoma take time out for a rest

that. What were ordinarily single rooms in San
Francisco now rent as doubles or even four-per-
son dormitories, but in Bremerton, Washington,
workers lived at first in chicken coops. Movie
houses in San Diego may be jam-packed; in Her-
miston, Oregon, there were my movies. Restaur-
ants in Los Angeles were crowded; in Vallejo
girls had to walk two miles for a meal.

Leaders of the short-time, emergency recreation
program that was needed knew very little about
the recreational preferences or cultural pinterests of
the forty-two million workers and the ten to fifteen
million uniformed men and women in our nation.

Three Years Ago

Troops here today are gone tomorrow or at ,—

least by next month. War production workers
here tonight change shifts next week. There is
nothing static and nothing predictable but change
itself. Yet in spite of these handicaps we have
made headway. Three years ago when the USO
was young, leaders were sent into towns where
military and war production pressures were new

and little understood calamities.
Once arrived, those leaders had
to organize committees, recruit
and train volunteers. Oftentimes
there was no building and little
or no equipment. Those early
leaders had to interpret USO to
the community, assure local agen-
cies that they wanted to supple-
ment, not duplicate, existing ac-
tivities and, on top of all that,
there was the ever-constant pres-
sure to get programs started-———-
fast!

So started it was, in tents, in
empty store rooms, whenever and
wherever there was space. What
that program would develop into,
how our transient participants
could be brought in on planning
and carrying out that program
were questions none of us could
answer. Principles, trends and
learnings were as difficult to graSp
as quicksilver, and like that metal,
the program was constantly changing its form.

-ac-f -
card, Y.W.C.A.

The Picture Changes

That was three years ago. Now we have build-
ings and equipment, the support of military om-
cials, the Federal Security Agency, defense rec-
reation councils, plant and labor leaders. Local
agencies and private citizens, as well as our own
participants, have all cooperated, and USO pro-
gram has taken a more tangible though still ever-
changing form. It is dependent, among other
things, upon the type of community and the new
residents whom we serve.

In communities where there are large numbers
of military and swarms of industrial workers, USO
clubs often must give service and provide recrea-
tion for both groups. Local citizens, hospitable to
the boys in uniform, sometimes resent the war
workers. Lack of understanding of each other by
all three groups fosters ill will and lowers morale.

Many things have been tried to promote good
will within such communities. The Wilmington,
California, club—Wilmington is part of the Los
Angeles harbor area where 100,000 meh and
women work in the shipyards and many thousands
of Army, Navy and Coast Guard men are sta-
tioned—tried to solve the problem by the forma-
tion of a joint council representing military and
industrial newcomers. Lecture discussion groups

RECREATION

IVHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST? 37

with topics varying from art and music to current
events and family relations, as well as sports and
photography classes have been started. The twelve
council members include two soldiers, a SPAR, a
coast guard, two VVACs, and seven war workers.
This group publishes a monthly paper called The
Bond to symbolize the relationship between our
fighting forces and the workers who make the
planes, ships and guns they use. The paper in-
cludes news articles, a gossip column, an editorial
and section on program plans.

Another project fostered by the Wilmington
club to promote understanding between the mili-
tary, the industrial workers, and the community
was the production of a musical revue entitled
“\Ne’re Doing All We Can,” put on by a cast of
forty industrial and ten military. It was presented
hrst as a “thank you” to the community from the
~ USO, and on a second night for the amusement of
the military and war workers. It played to capac-
ity audiences. As requests poured in for further
showings it was staged at other USOs in the area.
‘ Out of this production has also grown something
more permanent—a large choral group and a
dramatic club.

Another interpretation of the part that war pro—
duction is playing in the war effort took the form

of a pageant in the Navy Day program of a ship?

building town. This pag-
eant highlighted a day of
community celebration
that included a radio pro-
gram, a parade, and a tea
at the USO for wives and
mothers qf Navy men,
with \VA VHS and
SPARS as special guests.

The pageant told “The
Story of the Battleship
Indiana,” depicting the
contribution of industry
in all sections of the
country to the construc-
tion of a great battleship.
The theme pointed up the
fact that the men who
contribute to such con-
struction—farmers, min-
ers, engineers, carpent-
ers, welders and riveters;
white men, black men,
yellow and red men—are

APRIL 1944

Americans all. Such community programs have
proved to us that understanding and good will
develop naturally when joint councils get people
planning and working together.

Activities Go On!

Program councils composed of soldiers and
junior hostesses are proving their worth in mili—
tary clubs across the country, too. What if the
men do come and go? Some always remain and
the girls can carry on if there is even‘a complete
turnover at the near-by camp. The Carmel, Cali-
fornia, council, challenged by an unplanned Friday
night at its USO club, thought up the “Barn Door
Canteen.” Now every Friday night the walls of
the recreation rooms are hung with saddles,
bridles, horseshoes, and serapes. Coffee and dough-
nuts are served on two long tables covered with
red and white checked oilcloth. Five baby kids
frolicking in an impromptu corral rigged up
around the big, old fireplace drew a lot of delighted
attention. A box of chickens atop the bookcase,
and a baby bull in a netting cage lend even more

Beach parties rank high in the program
of the "Industrial Co-op" organized by
the aircraft workers of Santa Monica

 

Public Relations Dart, USO Division, National Board, Y. W'.C.A.

38 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST?

local color. Lanterns shed a soft light over this

barnyard scene.
The Snack Bar is transformed into a forty-

niner bar with animal skins and heads decorating
the walls. A parrot hanging from the ceiling looks
over the situation.

A small place called the Angel’s Roost is set“

aside for civilians. The price of admission to this
Roost is two dozen doughnuts. Upon arrival the
civilian guests are presented with white caps and
halos to wear while they watch the Hoor show.
In front of the Roost is a sign saying: “Please
don’t annoy the Angels.” About nine o’clock the
dancing is stopped and the men and girls get a
cup of coffee and doughnuts, and as many as pos-
sible seat themselves at the tables. The rest sit on
the floor to watch the floor show. The entertain-
ment has a definite Western flavor. One night
the theme is Indian, and another night it may be
Spanish. At first servicemen presented one or two

acts only, but now they and the hostesses put on

the entire show.

On the night ,of the grand opening a street
parade was led by men and women in Western
costumes on horseback. Two soldiers took the part
of Ferdinand the Bull. The paraders were greeted
in front of the building by a hillbilly band. As they
passed inside, the director, dressed in Western
costume, invited them to park their guns and fire-
arms.

In all USO clubs there is a growing interest in
music. In Inglewood, California, where there are
three large airplane factories, a chorus of forty
women organized themselves as the Vivandieres.
The women in the chorus are all members of the
Inglewood chapter of the Aircraft Women’s Club
which is made up of wives of aircraft workers and
women who themselves make planes.

The story of this club goes back two years.
Pe0p1e by the thousands were pouring into Cali-
fornia in answer to the call for workers 'in the
huge aircraft plants. During their leisure hours,
these workers found themselves with time on their

hands and nothing to do. In Inglewood a group-

of the newcomers decided a club of aircraft wives
and workers would help provide fun. So they rang
doorbells and carried their message to all the
women they could reach.

Now more than 150 women belong to the Ingle-
wood group. They all have a hand at preparing
a weekly pot-luck luncheon at the USO. And they
take part in tap dancing classes, badminton, bowl-
ing, craft work in silver and leather, Red Cross

sewing, courses in nutrition and home nursing and,
last but not least, they practice for the Vivandieres
-———the Aircraft Women’s Chorus.

The chorus has proved to be one of the most
famous activities of the Inglewood club. The
Vivandieres were born when one of the aircraft
women attended a community singw—then stopped
in the USO club to talk over starting a singing
group.

From this simple beginning a thing of true ar-
tistic achievement has grown. The girls could
really sing, it developed, and soon they had pro-
fessional guidance from a volunteer director who
had formerly led well-known choral groups. Be-
fore long they were giving noon concerts at the
aircraft plants, in churches, and in public meeting
places. Sometimes they put on concerts with a
men’s chorus called the Grenadiers. These men
and women work for their supper but sing for
their fun!

Art classes and sketch groups have burgeoned
in clubs all over the country, thus showing that
drawing and painting are. vital interests to many
servicemen. The professional artist in the armed
forces finds an outlet for the creative urge he could

"encourage in civilian life, and the amateur who

tries a drawing for the first time often discovers he
can have a whale of a good time even though the
results may not amount to much aesthetically. The
urge to make things with our hands is in most of
us and the routine of camp life brings it to the
surface.

Only the Mural Is Static!

This interest in creative things has taken a par-
ticularly happy turn in one club. In*the game
room, a 50-foot mural on the wall good-naturedly
gibes at military life and recreation in a USO club.
A soldier gives the eye to a pretty girl, a barber
shop quartet sings beside a rickety piano, a sleepy
sailor can’t be awakened by his girl, and a tough
one with a broken nose does a bit of j itterbug with
a blonde. There'are also WACs and marines, in-
dustrial workers arid hostesses and a footsore
rookie—all the diverse people found in a USO
club.

The mural is the work of many soldier-artists.
The art group, started more than a year ago when
a soldier lamented to the club director that there
was no place to keep up his art work, has grown
from a mere handful to a large class of hard
working artists. A local artist and art teacher
became interested in the work of the group and

RECREATION

WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST? 39

soon gave his Sun-
days plus one or
two nights a week
to direct and en-
courage them.
From his talks on
various phases of
art the idea of the
mural was born.
The soldiers made
more than a thou—
sand sketches, us-
ing USO visitors
for models, before
final selections
were made. A typi—
cal soldier face, a
pair of pretty legs,
the set of a cap, a
girl from the ord-
nance plant in a
work uniform —
all were excellent
material. The group has been in constant flux as
men are transferred from camp to camp and over—
seas. Old ones go and new ones come, but the
mural retains remarkable homogeneity as the new—
comers daub their brushes on their palettes—con-
tinuing where the others left off.

The Mobile Service

There is interesting variety to the entertainment
—-social and cultural —that is provided in USO
clubs. Under the romantic name of the Sun and
Sand Caravan, busloads of junior hostesses from
Los Angeles or one of thirty near—by towns in
southern California go rolling out into the desert
each week end to bring a welcome change to the
thousands of soldiers siationed in the desert ma—
neuver area for final training before shipment
overseas.

Such caravan operations are a part of USO Mo-
bile Service. They stretch from Palm Springs,
California, to Yuma, Arizona, and from Las
Vegas, Nevada, to the Mexican border. The girls
go wherever the Army wants them. Sometimes it
may be to a remote air base, or to entertain sol-
diers in Torney Hospital at a party sponsored by
the Red Cross, or perhaps to a desert USO club
in a community too small to have enough of its
own junior hostesses. The trip is hot and uncom-
fortable as the girls jounce along the desert mile
after mile in blowing sand and temperatures that

APRIL 1944

 

Public Relations Dept, USO Division, National Board, Y. W.C.A.

Junior hostesses go by Army truck to enter-
tain barrage balloon crews who must remain
at their station twenty-four hours a day

sometimes reach 140°, but at the end of the ride
the most appreciative hosts in the world are on
hand to receive them.

These are the servicemen who for weeks have
been isolated from everything but Army life. They
have been living on iron rations, sleeping in fox-
holes and enduring the heat and dust of the desert
under conditions that simulate as closely as possi-
ble those of actual battle, even to the use of live
ammunition. As their training nears "completion
they_are usually permitted a little relaxation and
it is here that the Caravan girls come in. The men
make careful preparations for their guests and are
delighted when they arrive.

Dancing and swimming, conversation and sports,
more dancing and more swimming, or church and
a long walk or 'bicycle ride, food from a held
kitchen and a few hours sleep on a GI. cot are the
usual routine of the hostesses on these week-end
trips. Most of them are business girls but, like the
soldiers they entertain, they are a pretty good
cross section of any community: college-girls and
swing shifters, white collar workers and riveters.

(Continued on page 50)

L

"They’re in the Navy Now!"

EUT. COMDR. ARTHUR T. N OREN has made avail-
able to RECREATION a list of officers in the
Recreation and \Velfare Service of the U. S.
Navy recruited from the ranks of individuals who
were trained for, or have served in, the public rec—
reation movement. Thirty—one of these officers are
former local recreation superintendents. Twenty—

ate as possible.

two are graduates of the National Recreation School.

40

Na me

Lieut. M. G. Ackerman
Lieut. (jg) Roy A. Armstrong
TLieut. (jg) F. W. Athay
*Lieut. (jg) Ernest Barbieri
Lieut. (jg) James W. Barton
*Lieut. E. R. Bowman
TLieut. Larry L. Brennan
Ens. Malcolm Bridges
*Lieut. (jg) William E. Capps
*Lieut. (jg) C. A. Cason
*Lieut. Comdr. Paul Cleland
*Lieut. William M. Collins
Lieut. (jg) Samuel Ed. Cooperman
Ens. Stephen M. Corbett
*Lieut.h(jg) Richard P. Corrigan
*TLieut. Comdr. Charles B. Cranford
Lieut. F. D. Crosby
Lieut. Hugh N. Dangremond
*Lient. Comdr. Charles W. Davis
*Lieut. (jg) A. J. DeJulio
Lieut. (jg) Harold V. Doheny
Lieut. (jg) Henbert Donovan
Ens. E. A. Dorow
'l'Lieut. Allen T. Edmunds
*TLieut. Harry Foss Edwards
Lieut. (jg) John James Ferguson -
TLieut. Homer W. Fish
Lieut. (jg) Thomas W. Fisher
*Lieut. (jg) Raymond T. Forsberg
Lieut. (jg) William Frederickson, Jr.
Lieut. (jg) Paul Gilbert Gay
Ens. Meyer Goodman
Ens. F. V. Gustafson
Lieut. (jg) Clyde Americ Hadley
*TLieut. John L. Harne
Lieut. Thomas J. Harrison
*Lieut. Archie Hayden Hecht
Lieut. (jg) Quenton K. Hartke
Lieut. Alfred Nash Higgins
*Lieut. (jg) F. S. Hughes
i"'l'Lieut. (jg) Karl Johanboeke
*Lieut. (jg) Corliss L. Jones
Lieut. Daniel H. Jones
Ens. William F. Keller
Lieut. (jg) Jesse K. Kennedy
*Lieut. Comdr. Raymond S. Kimball

_v_—_.

* Overseas service
1‘ Graduate of National Recreation School

Formerly Served with

Chicago Park System
Seattle, Waslr, Park Department
Newark, N. J., Recreation Department

The ranks of the officers are as of the time the
list was prepared and there may, of course, have
been a number of prOmotions since.

There may be others who should be added to
the list. If you know of any, kindly report them to
us so that our list may be as complete and accur-

California Assistant State Supervisor, WPA Recreation

National Staff, WPA Recreation

Superintendent of Recreation, El Paso, Texas

Los Angeles Recreation Department
Chicago Park Department

Uni-on County, N. J., Park Department
Chicago Park Department

Allentown, Pa., Recreation Department
Detroit Recreation Department
Recreation Department, FSA

Westchester County, N. Y., Recreation Department

Baltimore Recreation Department

Virginia State WPA Recreation

Berkeley, Calif., Recreation Department
Chicago Park Department

New Haven, Conn, Recreation Department
WPA Recreation

West Allis, Wis., Recreation Department
National Park Service

New York State Park Commission
Wheeling, West V a., Park Commission
Eugene, Ore., Recreation Department
Recreation Department, FSA

Los Angeles Recreation Department

San Francisco Recreation Department (Q -
Richmond, Va., Recreation Department
Recreation Department, FSA

Los Angeles Recreation Department
Atlanta. Ga.. Recreation Department

Los Angeles Recreation Department
Milwaukee Recreation Department
Recreation Department, FSA

Tampa, Fla., Recreation Department
WPA Recreation Department, Washington
St. Louis Recreation Council

National Staff, WPA Recreation
Charles, S.C., Recreation Department
Springfield, Ohio, Recreation Department
Madison, Wis., Recreation Department
San Francisco Recreation Department

RECREATION

“THEY’RE IN THE NAVY NOW!”

Name

Lieut. Edward T. King
'l‘Lieut. Arthur J. Kirkpatrick
Lieut. (jg) Victor A. Kormeier
Lieut. (jg) John Kosnar
*Lieut. (jg) Frank M. Krysiak
*Lieut. (jg) Walter Kuch
*Lieut. (jg) John Edward Leary, Jr.
Ens. Robert E. Link
Ens. Edwin R. Logan
*Lieut. Melvin G. Lundstedt
Lieut. (jg) Rodney E. Luscomb
Lieut. James G. Mangan
Lieut. Comdr. F. S. Mathewson
Lieut. (jg) William J. McNeil
Lieut. (jg) Edward A. McDevitt
Lieut. (jg) James D. McKinley
Lieut. (jg) Maynard R. McLean
Lieut. Myl’es H. MacMillan
Ens. Robert McClain Maher
*Lieut. Comdr. Nathan Mallison
Ens. Frederick Martin
Ens. W. R. Masik
Lieut. N. R. Meglathery
*‘j'Lieut. Earle E. Moll
*Lieut. (jg) Harold G. Myron
Lieut. Harold S. Morgan
*Lieut. (jg) S. L. Moyer
*1‘Lieut. Robert K. Murray '
Ens. Charles A. Murdaugh
Lieut. J. D. Murphy
Lieut. William W. Morison
‘l‘Lieut. D. R. Neal
*‘l'Lieut. (jg) Martin M. Nading, Jr.
'l‘Lieut. Milton Foss Naru-m
*Lieut. Comdr. C.'P. L. Nicholls
*‘I'Lieut. Comdr. Arthur T. Noren
Lieut. (jg) John O’Reilly
Lieut. (jg) Louis A. Orsatti
Lieut. John C. O'Malley
TLieut. Edgar R. Overton
*Lieut. Clayton Perrault
Ens. Butler Perryman
Ens. Jack Puryear
‘l‘Lieut. Harry Atwood Reynolds
*Lieut. Joseph Francis Riley, Jr.
Lieut. (jg) Lester R. Roberts
Ens. William G. Riordan
Lieut. Thomas H. Rickman, Jr.
'l‘Lieut. Carl H. Schmitt
*Lieut.I. M. R. Schultz
Lieut. (5%) Beverly S. Sheffield
Ens. William H. Shumard
TLieu-t. (jg) Charles Kenneth Smith
Lieut. (jg) David L. Smith
*Lieut. B. A. Sol-braa
Lieut. (jg) Allan J. Sullivan
Lieut. G. F. Skinner
Lieut. Willard B. Stone
Lieut. (jg) Wm. H. Sutherland
Lieut. Comdr. W. D. Thompson
*Lieut. C. L. Varner
*Lieut. (jg) Lee Beverly Wade
Ens. Joseph Francis Walker
*Lieut. Robert Starr Wattles
Lieut. (jg) John Richard Wells
{Lieut. J. E. Whitford
Lieut. W. P. Witt
*Lieut. Comdr. Stanley Witter
Lieut. (jg) Joseph Ed. Wood
TLieut. (jg) Clark L. Fredrikson
TLieut. Comdr. James A. Garrison
Lieut. (jg) H. B. Holman
Lieut. M. C. Huppuch
Lieut. Arthur R. Jarvis
Lieut. (j g) Frederick C. Stewart

.

 

* Overseas service

1 Graduate of National Recreation School

APRIL 1944

Formerly Served with
New York City Park Department

Dallas, Texas, Recreation Department
Chicago Park Department

Linden, N. J., Recreation Department
Union County, N. J., Park Commission
Newtonville, Mass., Recreation Department
New York City Park Department
Alameda, Calif., Recreation Department “
Lynn, Mass., Recreation Department

San Diego, Calif., Recreation Department
Sacramento, Calif., Recreation Department
Union County, N. J., Park Commission
Chicago Park Department

San Francisco Recreation Department
Recreation Department, FSA

Chicago Park District

West Haven, Conn., Recreation Department
WPA Recreation, Ohio

Jacksonville, Fla., Recreation Department
New Britain, Conn., Recreation Department
Wisconsin Recreation Department
Tuckahoe, N. Y., Recreation Department

Highland Park, Mich., Recreation Department
MiIWaukee Recreation Department
Reading, Pa.. Recreation Department
Dayton, Ohio, Recreation Department
\Visconsin Recreation Department

Chicago Park System

Oakland, Calif., Recreation Department
Greensboro, N. C., Recreation Department
WPA Recreation, Virginia

Northampton, Mass., Park Department

Los Angeles Recreation Department
Elizabeth, N. J., Recreation Department
Boston, Mass., WPA Recreation

Los Angeles Recreation Department
Fitch'burg, Mass., Recreation Department
Recreation Department, FSA

Florida State Park Department

Tyler, Texas, Park Department

St. Petersburg, Fla., Recreation Department

Auburn, N. Y., Recreation Department

Monroe, Mich., Recreation Department
National Staff, W PA a
Delaware County, Pa., Park Department
Bethlehem, Pa., Recreation Department
Dallas, Texas, Recreation Department

Los Angeles Recreation Department

Racine, Wis., Recreation Department

San Francisco, Calif., Recreation Commission
National Housing Authority .
N. Y. State Supervisor of Recreation, WPA
Chicago Park System

Orlando, Fla., Recreation Department
Oakland, Calif., Recreation Department
Elizabeth, N. J ., Recreation Department
Jacksonville, Fla., Recreation Department
Colorado State WPA w
Lafayette, La., Recreation Department
Corpus Christi, Texas, Recreation Department
Spokane, Wash., Park Department
Montclair, N. J ., Recreation Department
National Recreation Association

Austin, Texas, Recreation Department
Oakland, Calif., Recreation Department
National Park Service

Passaic County, N. J., Park System
Norfolk, Va., Recreation Department

’.‘

41

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

NIJMALS. “Wild Animals of the Rockies——

Adventures of a Forest Ranger,” by William

Marshall Rush. Illustrated. 296 pp. Harper &
Brothers, New York.

“Animal Tracks,” by George F. Mason. 95 pp.
$1.50. William Morrow, New York. Pocket-size.
Footprints of forty-four mammals.

Bird Sanctuary. Arcadia Sanctuary, Northamp-
ton, Massachusetts, has passed from private owner-
ship to the Massachusetts Audubon Society and
will be in memory of Robert Searle Chafee. West
of the oxbow of the Connecticut River, it is on an
- important migratory route. Over 200 species have
been listed at the sanctuary including egrets and
at times 400 wood ducks. Located at the center of
four colleges, it will certainly provide a haven for
students eager to become acquainted with feath-
ered friends.

“Coast Guard Ahoy,” by Philip Harkins. $2.00.
Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York. Story
for younger boys.

“Conservation Education in Rural Schools.” Na-
tional Education Association, Department of Rural
Education. Yearbook 1943. I 30 pp. 50 cents per
copy. Washington, D. C.

Dog Calendar. The American Humane Associa-
tion, 13 5 Washington Avenue, Albany, New York,
1944 Holiday Greeting Calendar. 10 cents. The
calendar features different dogs and cats for each
month. The Massachusetts Life Insurance Com-
pany, Springfield, Massachusetts, has a very at-
tractive calendar with dogs featured.

Dogs. “Shep: A Collie of the Old West,” by
Thomas C. Hinkle. $2.00. William Morrow, New
York. A fine story for children below teen age.

Fishpond. “Techniques of Fishpond Manage-
ment,” by Lawrence V. Compton. 22 pp. Illus—
trated. 10 cents. Government Printing Office,
Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.

Fishing. “Coverts and Casts: Field Sports and
Angling in Words and Pictures,” by William J.
Schaldach. I 38 pp. Illustrated. $5.00. A. S.
Barnes, New York.

Forest Fires. “Burning an Empire,” by Stewart

H. Holbrook. $2.50. Macmillan Company, New
York.

42

J

Forests. “Paul Bunyan’s Quiz,’ or 225 ques-
tions and answers about the forest. An excellent,
illustrated booklet, free. American Forest Prod—
ucts Industries, Incorporated, 1319 18th Street,
N. W., Washington 6, D. C.

Meat, Game. “Save Game Meat—It is Valu—
able,” by D. Irvin Rasmussen and Marvin D.
Wilde. 5 pp. Wildlife leaflet 246. Free. Supply
limited. Chicago, Illinois, Department of the In—

terior, Fish and Wildlife Service.

“Naturalist at Large,” by Dr. Thomas Barbour.
314 pp. 24 pages of photographic illustrations.
$3.50. Little, Brown and Company, Boston, Mas-
sachusetts.

Nature Recreation. “Along Nature’s Highway,”
by Carroll Lane Fenton. $1.25. John Day Com-
pany, New York.

Nature Recreation at the USO. Convalescents
wounded in the Aleutians find fishing for 32-inch
rainbow trout, sightseeing trips, and visits to gla-

ciers good ways to recover strength and good
spirits at the USO Club, Anchorage, Alaska.

Photography. “Photography for Rural Young
People,” a 73-page booklet prepared especially
for farm boys and girls. Instructions for taking
good pictures, developing and printing. Eastman
Kodak Company, Rochester, New York.

“Poultry Keeping, Backyard,” by G. T. Klein.
$1.50. Everybody’s Publishing Company, Han-
over, Pennsylvania.

“Races of Mankind.” 32 pp. 10 cents. Public
Affairs Committee, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New

York.

Science Careers. “Careers for Girls in Science
and Engineering,” by Evelyn Steele. 189 pp. Il-
lustrated. $2.50. E. P. Dutton and Company,
New York.

Shopwork. “Farm Mechanics in the School.”
Bulletin No. 31A. 28 pp. South Bend Lathe

Works, South Bend, Indiana. Shop layout plan,
course outline suggestions, etc.

Trapping. “Starbuck Valley Winter,” by Rod-
erick L. Haig—Brown. $2.00. William Morrow,
New York. Good story of life in the wilds of
British Columbia—for Scout age.

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

THE Annual
Report Of the
Long Beach
Recreation
Commission July I, 1942, through
June 30, 1943, states that Playground
Councils have been in successful opera-
tion for three years. The chairmen of
the groups are selected from among
regular patrons at each area
to assist the director in build—
ing and carrying on the pro—
gram giving special attention
to program coordination, boys’
and girls’ activities, safety,
. playground supplies, athletics,
community relations, records
and publicity. The Chairman
of Program Coordination acts
as Chairman of the Council
when meetings are held and
the Chairman of Records
serves as Secretary. Although the function of
these junior Chairmen is cooperative with the area
director, the policy is to permit the greatest pos-
sible freedom of action, to encourage initiative, and
to gain youth acceptance of responsibility through
shared planning.

   
  
  
 
 
 
  

Junior Playground
Councils

OTTO T. MALLERY’S book,
Economic Union and Dur-
able Peace", has had many
favorable reviews and is now being published in
Spanish. The book has already gone to many parts
Of the world. For forty years Otto T. Mallery has
been active in the recreation movement in Phila-
delphia and for thirty—two years has been a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the National Rec-
reation Association and has been an active leader
at the Recreation Congress gatherings.

Otto T. Mallery

LIEUT. TOM HARMON,
Michigan All-America foot—
ball player, credited his
football training with having
Saved his life in airplane crashes in South America
and China, according to a recent Associated Press
story. “If I didn’t play football,” he- said, “I
wouldn’t be here; I wouldn’t have survived the
first crash. Those who say football has no part in

Football Training
Saved His Life

APRIL 1944

Print by Gedge Harmon

our soldiers’ training programs should have
their heads examined.”

IN 1930 Onondaga
County, New 'York,
secured more than
2,000,000 trees free
of charge from the State tree
nurseries, and planted them
on 2,200 acres of abandoned
farmland. These trees are
growing in value and it is
estimated that the forest will
be valued at least at $200,000
for its timber alone in a few
more years. Meanwhile a
lovely glen and native timber
stand of hardwoods have
been developed around an old
abandoned farmhouse as a
picnic and recreational area.
These community forests are
contributing a very important part in supplying
the timber requirements of the country as well as
outdoor recreation. The Onondaga County Park
and Regional Planning Board has supervision of
this area and is planning to expand the forest from
time to time as there are many areas available for
purchase and reforestation.

Onondaga Forests Pro-
vide Recreation Site

A RICHI'IOND, Vir-
d ginia, daily newspaper

recently called atten-

tion, editorially, to the
annual award of the Morris Plan Bank’s “Silver
Bowl,” presented to the Richmond War and Com-
munity Fund Agency which best interpreted its
activities to the public. This year the winner was
the Colored Recreation Association with the Girl
Scouts and Boy Scouts as runners-up in the con-
test. This Association has had the cooperation and
assistance of the field services of the National Rec-
reation Association in its initial organization and

since World War I.

Recreation Agency
Wins Publicity Awar

IN ADDITION to send-
ing entertainment into
Army camps, Holly-
wood has taken on the job of teaching the tricks of
the show business trade to soldier showmen who

Soldier Showmen

43

W ith the

A R MY
N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond ProduCts are on every fighting
trnnt, in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany. on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
[0 a successful conclusion.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46|O Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

produce entertainment within the camps. The
work was started at an Army Special Service con-
ference held in Atlanta, Georgia, last November.
Brian Aherne headed the seminar on acting; L.
“'olfe Gilbert conducted the song writing panel;
George Jesse] discussed master of ceremony tech-
nique ; Arch Oboler taught radio production; and
Conrad Thibault helped the singers. A similar
conference was scheduled in Salt Lake City for
Special Service Officers of the Ninth Service
Command.

Training Institutes—~T he Institute on Pro-
grams for Adolescents in \Var Time which will
precede the regular summer sessions to be given
on recreation and group work at W'estern Reserve
University, Cleveland, is particularly timely. There
will be three courses—~The Psychology of Ado-
lescence; Program Making with Adolescents; and
Community Organization to Meet the Needs of
Adolescents.

Also of interest at this time will be the Seminar
on Inter-Racial and Inter-Cultural Problems in
connection with recreation and group activities
which will be conducted at the same time as the

WORLD AT PLAY

Institute on Programs for Adolescents in War
Time. Further information is available from the

Admission Office, School of Applied Social

Sciences, Western Reserve University, Cleveland
6, Ohio.

Russia Acts to Curb Delinquency—Soviet
Russia, in an effort to stamp out juvenile wartime
delinquency, has announced a program of greater
attention to education, and has clamped down on
the country’s movie-attending youngsters. A decree
forbids children under sixteen years of age from
attending movies during school days without spe-
cial permission from the authorities. When per-
mission is granted, the children must be accom-
panied by approved teachers or adult school lead-
ers, and scholastic records, conduct, and home
work will be taken into consideration.—-——From The
N ew York Times, February 5, 1944.

Stay at Home Vacations in Detroit—“Stay
at Home Vacations in Detroit” is the title of an
attractive, illustrated circular issued last summer
by the Detroit Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion. It tells of the activities offered, lists the parks
and golf courses and gives general information re-
garding children’s games and similar facilities.

A New Playground for Union Springs—The
Lions Club of Union Springs, Alabama, took the
lead in establishing a playground in their city. The
Club secured from the city a plot of ground which
has a number of good shade trees in it. They or-
ganized a movement to equip the land as a play-
ground and donated $100 from their activity fund
to get the work started. There were a number of
swings and slides on the school grounds which
were in bad condition. These were handed over to
the Club and members repaired them. Various
organizations each agreed to furnish one piece of
equipment, and the Garden Club assumed the re-
sponsibility for beautifying the grounds. The city
of Union Springs through its Council has directed
the Street Department to keep the grounds clean
and supplied a play leader during the summer
months.

Drama Week at Cedar Crest College—The
week of January 17-22, 1944, was celebrated as
Drama \Veek at Cedar Crest College, Allentown,.
Pennsylvania, where special emphasis is being
placed upon speech and dramatic art in a rehabili—
tation course in Community Drama. In addition to
the lectures, six one-act plays were given in the

RECREATION

 

wt

15 CONTROLLED QUICKLY AND EFFECTIVELY
WITH

GULF SANI-SOIl-SET

 

      
 
  
 

    
    
   

   

39W“?

0
..o .' <

. . 9
J _ _ _  :w...;:.: fir}; «h, ,. -u..-...¢.¢’uas.¢...,.a._l ' _,f_’_w,.v‘h"¢__ _~ 0.,”7.’ _, an,“ _,__\I _).,__ .- ,.

l~hly Effective—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set completely eliminates
\ dust annoyance immediately after application. No long
‘ waiting periods are necessary before the ground is ready
for use. The duSt allaying effect is accomplished by the
bcrion of the compound in adhering to and weighing
down dust particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-
aesses valuable germicidal properties. .

long lasting—Because of its extremely low volatility and
insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-

tive for long periods. One application per season or year
18 usually sufficient.

Easily Applied—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy
and pleasant to use. It can be applied by sprinkling can
or sprinkling truck. and spreads quickly and uniformly.

Lao—4...... ..... --Wm'tff"~4.rw W‘i’"'w ““j""“‘*‘ .r
A ' 3-: col  ‘  :~  ‘

bbtamyance problem's: 

  

Playground of Pelham High School,
Pelham, New York, a typical user of
Gulf Sani-Soil-Set. Note the clean
appearance of uniforms and shoes.

0

Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set prevents
the growth of grass on areas treated and reduces clean-
ing and dusring inside near-by buildings to a minimum.

Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
tion about this modern, proven dust allayer.

mail this coupon today

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet,“Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern proven agent for controlling dust.”

Name
(Iompany—____.__ _____._..___________ .s -
Title___ _

Address

46 WORLD AT PLAY ‘

©Uy'nu BEER-COVE RED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

Mlgd. by W. 1. Visit Rubber («pr-1600 E. 25lh St, los Angeles II
V (hitago Brandi-180 No. Water Drive-lonel

 

hrst local play tournament, and two poems were
presented by the verse speaking choir of the Col-
lege. On the final day of the week an exhibit of
stage designs and models was given in the college

drama studio.

Skating Rinks in St. Paul—The Department
of Parks, Playgrounds and Public Buildings of
St. Paul, Minnesota, is operating thirty-five skat-
ing rinks this winter. A number of additional rinks
are being provided by various local organizations
in neighborhoods in which the Department cannot
finance such facilities. In one neighborhood a pub-

“WAR and EDUCATION”

1st printing May1943; 2nd printing March 1944
512 pages, black vellum, $4.00

“One of the few books on education that made any
sense to me,” Richard T. La Piere, Stanford, U.
“Extraordinarily good stuff,” W. Lloyd Warner, U. of
Chicago. “Complete and scholarly,” Rockwell Kent.
“A most stimulating book,” Read Bain, Miami U.,
Ohio. “A must book for all men and women,” Marco
Morrow, Topeka. “A vigorous book,” Merle Curti,
U. of W is. “A mine of information,” Alliston Cragg.
“Amount of information leaves me gasping,” Maj.—
Gen. J. F. C. Fuller, England. “Indispensable to the
modern mind,” John Haynes Holmes. “Discloses a
remarkable intellect, breath of understanding, unbe-
lievable mental energy,” Ex—Congressman George H.

Tinkham.
Handbook of

PRIVATE SCHOOLS

28th edition, 1024 pages, red silk cloth, $6.00

Completely revised and reset. 3,000 schools criti-
cally described or listed, cross referenced and indexed.
The Introduction, an annual news event, reviews and
surveys current educational thought, separately pub-
lished as"-

“THE FUTURE OF EDUCATION”

256 pages, red silk cloth, Index and
Bibliography, $2.00

Reports on the great changes that have been brought
about by the military realists who have taken control
—reviews the current hopes and aspirations for post-
war educationmregrets the timorous who advocate
retreat to the dead past—suggests how to liberalize
“Liberal Education” and how to humanize “The
Humanities.” ‘a

Circulars and Table of Contents
on Request

PORTER SARGENT. 11 Beacon St., Boston a, Mass.

 

Iic-spirited resident is providing funds for the pro-
gram and personnel.

They Do Their Part—Children at the Arm-
strong Playground, Lynchburg, Virginia, which
serves Negro boys and girls, have for some time
been carrying on a tin can Salvage drive on their
own initiative. On clear days they gather tin cans
in their homes and turn them over to the play-
ground directors. On rainy days the children meet
in the director’s home Where they cut off tops and
bottoms of cans, remove labels, flatten them, and
have them in readiness to be gathered up and
added to the city’s collection.

Horseshoe Courts for Teaneck—In an effort
to serve the people where they are, the Park De-
partment and City Manager of Teaneck, New Jer-
sey, have set up a number of simple horseshoe
courts throughout the city. In one section, a high
speed highway splits the town, and the apartment
houses and dwellings which flank the overpass
are far from any park or playground. Now the
city has built a court at the edge of the parkway
on either side of the highway. Courts have also
been put in neighborhood vacant lots, in front of

\billboards, and wherever groups of citizens have

asked for opportunities to pitch horseshoes.

Eugene, Oregon, Uses Its School Buildings—
The school buildings in Eugene, Oregon, are
beehives of activity at night, all day Saturday,
and every day during vacation periods. Young
peOple are interested in craft work in the shops,
and dances for boys and girls from junior high
school age up are frequent attractions. Gym-
nasiums are in constant use and are supervised
by trained leaders of the municipal Recreation
Commission of which Florence D. Alden is di-
rector. Recently, in conjunction with the P.T.A.,
the Recreation Commission planned a series of
home parties for the-children instead of having
community-wide affairs. As a special project
students at the University of Oregon made up
suggested programs which were sent to par-
ents through the P.T.A.—-—From Recreation Bul~
letin, thce of Community War Service.

Roller Skating in Raleigh—Roller skating in
street blocks in five different sections of Raleigh,
North Carolina, including the Negro centers, is
one of the activities promoted by the Raleigh Rec—

reation Department.

RECREATION

FREE FOR
YOUR TEAM
MEMBERS

These interesting
informative books
will be supplied you
free of charge in
quantities to meet
your team needs.
Write Dept. R for

your supply.
1 1:”,
' J 
/ BASEBALL—A "Must" in our armed ser-

vices' training program will assume even
greater importance when victory is won and
millions of America's youth return to peace
time pursuits. Our war experience has
taught us a salutary lesson in physical fitness
which will not soon be forgotten. And the
future of baseball looms bright over the
sport's horizon.

 

The Choice of the Champions in Every LeagUe

APRIL 1944 4?

48 - ANNA LOUISE JOHNSON

  

WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
School of Applied Social Sciences

1v I944 SUMMER PROGRAM
in RECREATION and GROUP WORK

Institute on Programs for Adolescents
in War Time

May 29-June I0. I944
Open to college graduates on the staff of agencies
carrying out recreation and informal education programs

Tuition—$30.00 and application fee of $5.00.
Graduate professional credits

FAC U LTY

       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         

FRITZ REDL . . . . Wayne University
ESTHER TEST . Western Reserve University
HELEN ROWE U. 5. Children‘s Bureau

 
 

LEONARD W. M'AY.O . .. .. Western Reserve University

Seminar on Inter-Racial and Inter-Cultural

Problems in Group Activities
May 29-June 3. I944

Open to college graduates on the staff of agencies
providing recreation and informal education and deal-
ing with inter-racial and inter-cultural problems

Tuition—$10.00 and application fee of $5.00.
Graduate professional credits

FAC U LTY

Western Reserve University
National Urban League

Jewish Welfare Board
international institute

      
     
   
   
       
    

  

GRACE L. COYLE
LESTER GRANGER .
NATHAN E. COHEN
ANNiE C. WATSON

For full information on the above and other courses
leading to the degree of Master of Science in Social Ad-
ministration write: Admission Office, School of Applied
Social Sciences, WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
2117 Adelbert Road, Cleveland 6, Ohio

    
         
       
     
 

Sta rs of Yesterday

(Continued from page 30)

close to I 1,000 at the outdoor classes. The course
covers a ten-week period.

The Milwaukee Municipal Recreation system
knows that its Municipal Baseball School has
meant much to the boys of Milwaukee, and is very
confident that it will mean much to the future of
hard ball. “Some of the young Stars of Yesterday

show promise of becoming Stars of Tomorrow.

There may be, as a result of the season’s work,
some fine contributions to America’s ball fields,
but there certainly will be thousands of intelligent,
enthusiastic spectators in the grandstands and
bleachers in years to come, supporting and pro-
moting the great American game they learned to
know and love during their youth in Milwaukee’s

Baseball School.

NOTE: This article was submitted by John Zussrnan,
Acting Director of Municipal Athletics, Department of
Municipal Recreation and Adult Education, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin.

, Anna Louise Johnson

FOR MANY YEARS Anna Louise Johnson gave all
that she had of energy and enthusiasm and
power to the development of the community recre-
ation program in Denver, Colorado. She was
always a loyal friend of the National Recreation
Association. Her sympathy, her understanding,
her kindliness endeared her to a very large circle
of friends. She died in Colorado on February 23.

 

 

Full Speed Ahead in Dallasl

(Continued from page 27)

fantile paralysis epidemic last summer in Dallas
which kept children at home, the Recreation De-
partment undertook two radio programs a week
over the municipal radio station: one morning pro—
gram for mothers about new approaches in plan—
ning home and backyard recreation for the entire
family; and an afternoon “Let’s Have Fun” chil-
dren’s program which featured games, stunts and
stories.

Tentative arrangements are now being made
with the radio station to sponsor a hobby show
this summer with the Recreation Department. A
series of interviews are being arranged to cover a
period of approximately six weeks, at the end of
which time a hobby show for both children and
adults will be held in a museum at Fair Park.

It's Fun to' Play Safe

(Continued from page 28)

(I) service hours; (2) tests; (3) new members;
(4) attendance at meetings; (5) conducting dis-
cussions on safety; (6) special study of safety
problems. If any aid violates the rules of safety,
the commanding ofiicer and his staff hear his case
and have the power to deprive him of his merits
if he is found guilty.

Considerable leeway is allowed as to the types
of activities in which each group participates, al-

. though the work of all groups is coordinated with

that of the National Safety Council through repre-
sentation on the recreation section of the local
council. ‘

At the weekly meetings problems of safety are
discussed, the approach always being from the
positive point of view. If some accident is occur—
ring repeatedly on the playground, special atten-
tion is given it. Often, if it is a play accident, a
sandbox demonstration to the aids will show the

RECREATION

HOW RECREATION GREW IN MILLBURN

right way to play in order to avoid the accident.
A safety log is kept on every playground accident,
and this record is closely studied by the aids at
their meetings. Every effort is made to find the
cause of the accident and prevent its repetition.

Seasonal bulletins are issued to the aids. These
usually contain slogans, suggested projects, and
hints on how to enjoy seasonal activities without
accidents.

The safety aids are most helpful to the play-
ground leader, forming as they do a very depend—
able service group. Through their club work they
are developing team work, and they are happy in
knowing that they are contributing to the war
effort. For each accident prevented means less
strain on parents and overworked doctors.

Making safety a personal responsibility will pay
dividends!

How Recreation Grew in Millburn
(Continued from page 24)

operation with the physical education department
of the schools.

In addition, it conducts many activities not avail—
able in the schools and also continues its full pro—
gram during the summer months when the schools
are closed. Many of the youth of Millburn do not
get out of town during the summer and the pro-
gram lills a vital need during this period. Here
the Department puts much emphasis on activities
which will carry over into later life.

Last summer Millburn playgrounds, using the
theme “Scrap for Victory,” carried out a success—
ful scrap drive and held War Stamp and Bond
sales every week. When enough money was raised
to buy a “jeep,” all the playground children re-
ceived a ride in one at a near-by Army camp.

A self-government plan was introduced at all
the playgrounds in the 1943 season. Children
elected their own officials—mayor, police chief,
fire chief, clean-up group, and discipline court.
Under this plan they participated in field days,
art shows, trips, picnics, amateur shows, baby
parades, doll shows, pet shows, and movie shows.
Playground children also offered their services to
local organizations at picnics, fun nights, celebra-
tions, and anniversaries. Then, too, they provided
entertainment for servicemen’s baseball and soft-
ball teams after games with local teams.

Adult groups were organized in all sections of
the town for evening play periods. Under the
supervision of a specialist provided by the Recre-
ation Department, they conducted their own
programs.

APRIL 1944

 GoldSmith *

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

.  a Complete Line of
’ 3‘ Equipment for all Sports

. . . A Manual for Leaders

This new booklet—complete with charts,
diagrams, and program outlines— will
help both church leaders and community
groups to carry out a successful, all-
round program of activities.

Section headings include Why Church
Recreation, Leadership and Training,
Recreation Programs for Churches, and

Wider Use of Church Buildings for
Recreation—plus a selected bibliography.

Let Recreation and the Church serve both
you and your community program.
Order a copy today.

Price 25 cents

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York IO. N. Y.

 

49

50 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST?

 YM MATS-PADS

BOXING RINGS

TRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALI.

7‘ BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by canons, made by experienced workmen from
nudity materials and sold direct to schools, camps. on.
Independent, holy wholesale.

. NATIONAL spouts EQUIPMENT counuv
3‘5 MARQHKTI'I O 'OND 00 LAC. WIS.

   

   

for New (dialog

Sent;

Recent years have witnessed a tremendous
growth of interest in winter sports of all kinds.
However, the limited facilities for skating in the
park are inadequate, and although various siza—
able ponds in the Township are now widely used
by the public for winter sports, all are privately
owned and may not be available for public use
much longer. The Department is now investigat-
ing possibilities of acquiring some additional area
where skating and hockey can be more fully
enjoyed.

The athletic field in connection with the Glen-
wood School and the newly constructed playheld
in the Wyoming area are valuable additions to the
recreation facilities of the Township. The Depart-
ment feels they will pay dividends in improved
health, better sportsmanship and the wholesome
enjoyment of leisure time.

The work of the Recreation Department, which
has grown from activities on a small plot of
ground to a full-sized. community service, can-
not be measured in miles of new roads, police ar-
rests or fire alarms answered, but the citizens of
Millburn believe that it is helping very substan—
tially to improve health, provide a better use of
.leisure time, and effect decreased delinquency
among youth -—-—-in brief, that it is building better
citizens.

What's Happening on the West Coast?

(Continued from page 39)

And they all give not only their time but a part
of their expenses as well.

Many Negro troops are stationed in the desert.
Caravan loads of junior hostesses have been or-
ganized to visit them. Not long ago a group of
these youngsters drove 300 miles into the desert
to help entertain the soldiers of Camp Clipper. The
men, pleased that the girls would travel so far to
see them, loaded their guests with the best gifts
the post exchange affords. So the story will not
seem too one-sided, the girls frequently arrive

   
  
 
  

with homemade cakes and cookies as well as other
presents for the men.

Although they are too young to know the hard-
ships of roadshow company life, these girls be-
come good troupers after they join the Sun and
Sand Caravan. Outnumbered four or six to one,
they have gay smiles and a willing ear for the talk-
ers, apt banter for the more reticent, and, finally—
holes in their slippers from miles of dancing! They
have staunch admiration for these men, too, and
they are always ready for another dance or another
joke with those unsung warriors who know most
of the grief and none of the glory of their brothers
overseas.

As danger of invasion fades barrage balloons are
disappearing, but still a handful soar along the
West coastline and along Long Island, bobbing
gently in the wind and looking for all the world
like big gentle Dumbos. Although soft and docile
looking, they are not quite so simple as they seem.
They require a crew to keep watch over them
twenty—four hours a day—a crew that may be
moored anywhere from a lonely mountain top to
somebody’s backyards; a crew that must sleep and
eat and fuss and worry with its gigantic baby so
that her hydrogen is maintained at exactly the
right pressure for with too much she would explode
and with too little, collapse. Wind velocity is
watched as carefully as an infant’s diet and cable
lines must be checked constantly.

These air-borne babies are as scientifically cared
for as all babies should be, and the crew that
watches over them becomes pretty fond of their
charges. Still the job is a lonely and monotonous
one, like many other detached service chores. So
at the request of the Army a solution was worked
out. A soldier likes girls and girls like soldiers;
if the mountain couldn’t come to Mohammet, M0-
hammet would go to the mountain.

Army trucks stop regularly at USO clubs, pick
up groups of girls and takethem to the balloon
sites. When the truck arrives at the site, word goes
out: “The girls are here l” One by one the soldiers
start drifting in—but casually, as if the-presence
of girls were one of those inconsequential things
that happens every day. Many of the servicemen
are shy; a pretended boredom is a good defense.
They live in tents, so space is too small for danc-
ing. The girls, therefore, must be full of life and
quite socially adept in order to keep things moving.
After a few trips to the balloon sites they are able
to get games and fun started with astonishing as-
surance.

RECREATION

SOME WARTIME PROGRAMS FOR GIRLS 51

His "Basket" Eye Spells CURTAINS 
for a Jap Zero!

This American flyer was a basketball player at college. . ,1”
In this great American competitive game he trained /
his eyes to see accorately. He developed timing and /
coordination—the ability to duck and dodge and 1/
“sheet” baskets with amazing precision. Now this ‘ " ‘
skill—this accurate timing and precision shooting— {1

is helping him to‘bag Zeros in the blue skies above 

the far South Pacific.

Basketball and other American sports are making
an all-time record for America’s athletes in this war—
athletes who with relatively few months war training
are matching the best the enemy can give after a life ’5.
devoted to war training. Long live America’s sports ix .
and games. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, 4’3

New York and other leading cities.

 

Wilson Athletic
Goods JlIfg. Co.. Inc.
Chicago Plant

BASKETBALL EQUIPMENT

I
I

  
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

._

I
l/ s
I

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

Songs are sung around the pot-bellied stove, and
food brought by the girls is eaten. The boys like
to takerjhe girls. out to see Dumbo and explain all
her intricacies. Proving what good troupers they
are, the girls look as wide-eyed and wondering on
each visit as they did the first time barrage bal-

loons were eXplained to them by some other crew!

Nona: This is the second of the series of three articles
prepared by Miss Williams.

Some Wartime Programs for Girls
(Continued from page 23)

developed a military setup in its activity program
for girls which includes all the women’s services.
Girls may choose to become Junior WAVES,
Junior WAFS, Junior Motor Corps, Junior Red
Cross, Junior WACs, or Junior SPARS. The
organizations are quite military in character and
each has a motto, song.and pledge. The WACs,
VVAFS, WAVES, and SPARS all drill with an
older girl or the captain in charge. They have
.officers for a one month period—Captain, Ser-
geant, two Corporals, and of course Privates (by
election). They have a demerit system imposed
by the girls themselves, and inspection by an
r officers of hair, faces and hands.

The programs of the different corps are left to

APRIL 1944

the girls’ own choice and are varied. The WAVES
keep a scrapbook telling of the life of a real
WAVE. Their service is the preparation of a
box to be sent a soldier once a month. To choose
the soldier, names of relatives or friends are put
into a box and the third name drawn is the lucky
man. Not more than 35 cents can be spent on the
package, and the girls contribute what they want
to. A scrapbook of “thank you” letters from the
men is the prize property of the corps.

The Junior WAFS also send packages to
soldiers. They make scrapbooks for service hos-
pitals, stuff toys for the Red Cross, and they knit.

The special service of the Junior WACs is
contributing to the March of Dimes fund or the
Neediest Christmas families. This group has
chosen square dancing as its recreation.

The SPARS are serving by making scrapbooks
of “funnies” and crossword puzzles for service—
men in hospitals. They mount the puzzles on card-
board and attach an oilcloth fold for a pencil.

The Motor Corps mans the telephone during the
hours the center is open each week and marks a
card record which is kept for the merit system
with name, date, time and weather.

From twelve to twenty girls are in a unit, and
ages vary from 9 to 15.

52

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

['6’

Arts and Crafts

Part of Your Work?

TEEN you need JUNIOR
ARTS & ACTIVITIES, the magazine of
IDEAS and PLANS! This monthly publica-
tion contains b0th methods and projeCt ideas
for carrying out many unusual aCtivities.
There are arts and crafts suitable for use with
children from the kindergarten through junior
high school. ,

Each issue of JUNIOR ARTS 8c ACTIVITIES

stresses the use of arts and crafts to motivate
and to correlate. It is no idle statement that
while working with their hands children can
be trained in the line habits of democratic
citizenship.

Because many art and craft materials formerly
available cannot now be obtained, recreational
and craft direCtors will find the praCtical sug-
gestions contained in JUNIOR ARTS &
ACTIVITIES a great help.

only

$3.00 for a year's subscription

(10 consecutive issues starting any month)

(Postage: Canada 25c additional
foreign, 50c additional)

subscribe today

Junior ARTS 8: ACTIVITIES

DEPT. R
46|6 North Clarlt Street

Chicago 40, Illinois

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZI N ES

Camping, February 1944 .
Camping for the Younger Child, Dr. Karl Bernhardt

The Foil, December 1943

Recreation Objectives and Program in Wartime,
Alfred H. Wyman

New Jersey Municipalities, February 1944

Municipally Planned Recreation for Adolescents in
War Time, F. Edward Biertuempfel

Parents’ lilagazine, March 1944

How I Organized a Play Group, Eleanor Stewart
What They Want Is Fun, Helen Buckler

Public Management, February 1944

Postwar Planning for Recreation,
Williams

School Activities, February 1944
Birth of a Nature Study Club, Willetta R. LaRoe

Sports Age, February 1944
Sports Equipment in the War, Col. Theodore P. Bank

Think, February 1944
Sports and Combat Training

Arthur M.

PAM PH LETS

Bibliography on Industrial Music. December 1943

Personnel Planning and Research Department. RCA
Victor Division, Radio Corporation of America,
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City

Boys and Girls Together, Margaret Shufiler and George

B. Corwin _
The Womans Press, New York City

Here’s How You Can Help Redevelop Your City with
Modern Highways

For copies of this publication address F: Stuart
Fitzpatrick, secretary, Conference Cornrmttee on
Urban Problems, 1615 H. Street, N. W., Wash—

ington 5, D. C.

Informal Games for Soldiers. War Department Techni-
cal Manual, TM 21-221

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S.
Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

Price 15 cents

Jumblegrams, Florence Boynton Watson

Webb Book Publishing Company, 55 East Tenth
Street, St. Paul 2, Minnesota. Price 25 cents

Looking for Gremlins in Girl Reserve Clubs, Virginia

W. Lewis .
The Womans Press, New York City

Quality Control in City Building, Hugo Leipziger

Reprinted from the Journal of Architecture, En-
gineering and Industry, Vol. 6, January 1944, C91—‘
lege of Engineering, University of Texas, Austin.

Texas

Study of City-Wide Recreation Possibilities for Topeka,
Kansas, 1938-1943

Civilian Defense Council, Topeka, Kansas

RECREATION

MUSIC ON SUMMER PLAYGROUNDS 53

ACTUAL PHOTO OF TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY. THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

TwonWay Bowling Alleys are now in use all over the United
States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
ll4 East 32nd Street. New York

Merchant Marine. Coast Guard. WAGS. U.S.O. Clubs. and "Y's."

MAIL COUPON TODAY
FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LEsdngton 2-8828 0

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

Music on Summer Playgrounds
(Continued from page 20)

Canada, Poland, Mexico, Czechoslovakia, Nor—
way, Belgium, Netherlands, France, China, Rus—
sia and the United States.

Midway through the program, the festivities
were interrupted by the entrance of a gaudily-
garbed peddler, wheeling a large globe which he
tried to sell to the children. They refused to
accept the globe in its present darkened condition
but later, when the globe was “lighted” by the
beautiful music made by the children, they will—
ingly accepted it in its shining state. Thus this
common understanding and cooperation achieved
through the harmony of music was vividly demon-
strated and acclaimed by an appreciative audience
of four thousandl

APRIL 1944 "

Gentlemen: «We are interesred in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..
Address .................  ......................................... ..

City ................  ...........  ..... .. State ................ ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

Nor did this musical enthusiasm diminish, for
many days after the music festival the singers
could be heard joyfully repeating these special
songs and teaching them to their playmates. Thus
the summer theme took hold and spread with in—
creased impetus through the eagerness and vim of
the youthful talented songsters I.-

In retrospect, the success of music on summer
playgrounds was due mainly to the happy com-
bination of a simple activity, requiring few materi-
als and truly emphasizing “play for play’s sake,”
with the basic theory that “the child comes first”
in exploiting any channels for its utilization. The
intrinsic values to be gained in pleasant, informal
musical activities should not be overlooked or un—
derestimated in recreation programs. Reading’s
playgrounds have had a bountiful share, and will
continue to expand and satisfy their musical needs.

' o

 

What happens when

your hat comes down?

SOMEDAY, the War will be over.

Hats will be tossed into the air all over
America on that day.

But What about the day after?

No man knows just what’s going to hap-
pen then. But we know one thing that must
not happen:

We must not have a postwar America fum-
bling to restore an out-of—gear economy,
staggering under a burden of idle factories
and idle men, wracked with internal dissen-
sion and stricken with poverty and want.

  
   

That is why we must buy War Bonds—
now.

For every time you buy a Bond, you not
only help finance the War. You help to build
up a vast reserve of postwar buying power.
Buying power that can mean millions of
postwar jobs making billions of dollars’
worth of postwar goods and a healthy, pros—
perous, strong America in which there’ll be
a richer, happier living for every one of us.

To protect your Country, your family, and
your job after the War—buy War Bonds now!

WM KEEP BACKING THE ATTACK!

The Treasury Department acknowledges with appreciation
the publication of this message by

RECREATION

‘ RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The American Square Dance

By Margot Mayo. Sentinel Books, 112 East 19th St.,
New York. $.50.

EN YEARS AGO MISS MAYO founded the American

Square Dance Group, and she has for years collected
and taught American folk dances. This collection, she
points out, is not intended to be a complete treatise on
the American folk dance, but is merely an Open door to
a further appreciation.

The book discusses types of dances, music and instru-
ments, gives hints to callers and suggestions for a square
dance evening, and provides a glossary. Music for ten
dances is given, and there is a bibliography.

The World's a Stage

Edited by Margaret Mayorga. Samuel French, New
York. $2.00.

COLLECTION of twelve one—act plays designed to give

boys and girls the opportunity to participate in
theater productions from the era of Greek to modern
radio drama. Four of the plays are nonroyalty.

Knotsl Splices and Rope Work

By A. Hayatt Verrill. The Norman W. Henley Pub-

lFisléing Company, 17-19 West 45th Street, New York.
. 1. 0.

NOTS,” SAYS THE AUTHOR, “were presumably in-
vented :by prehistoric man at about the time he
discovered that trailing vines and fibers served useful
purposes, such as keeping his family from falling off
the log canoe or tethering the pet sabre-toothed tiger.”
In its revised form—and the book has been used for
many years—it contains directions for knots of all kinds
from the simplest variety to involved fancy knots. Splic-
ing, too, is described, and there is a discussion of
materials and kinds of rope.

At .Ease!

By Jules Leopold. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill Book
Company, Inc., New York. $1.75.

THE CONSULTANT and adviser on puzzles and games

for Yank, the Army weekly, has brought together a
collection of puzzles, tricks, stunts, and miscellaneous
activities which are designed primarily for the serviceman
when he is “at ease.” Civilians as well will find this book
interesting and amusing.

Builders of Our Nation

By F. Raymond Elms. Albert Whitman and Company,
Chicago, Illinois. $2.00.

THE AUTHOR has selected thirty-six men influential in

our early history and has presented them both in an
authenticated text and in vivid illustrations. History
comes to life in this book.

ll

APRIL 1944

Victor Herbert Songs for Children

Selected and edited by Ella Herbert Bartlett. Whittlesey
House, McGraw—Hill Book Company, Inc., New York.

$1.75.
OME 0F VICTOR HERBERT’S finest music was written for
children. In addition to the well-known Operetta,
“Babes in Toyland,” there are many delightful songs for
children scattered throughout his other works. Ella
Herbert Bartlett, his daughter, has collected these charm-
ing little songs into one volume which contains what she
regards as the twelve best songs of this type from all of
her father’s work. The songs have been carefully edited
and simplified so that children and their relatives and
friends can sing them and play the piano accompaniments
without necessarily being highly proficient musicians.

Chessboard Magic!

Compiled and annotated by Irving Chernev. Chess“ Re-
view, 250 West 57th Street, New York 19. $2.50.
To THE CHESS PLAYER, composed endings are an in-
exhaustible source of entertainment. There are 160 of
them in this book arranged not by theme or composers
or alphabetically, but in a haphazard way designed to
add the element of surprise. Difficult positions have not
been included as the book is intended for pure enjoy-
ment, not drudgery.

Fun with Your Child

By Mary A. Mapes. Howell, Soskin, Publishers, Inc., 17
East 45th Street, New York. $2.50. -

HERE IS A BOOK of common sense for parents and

children. It takes care of the play needs of children
inexpensively, and intelligently, covering play for the
well child and the sick child, the child who plays alone
and the boy and girl who play in groups. Instructions
and illustrations show how toys and games are made,
and there is factual information for the parent on the

significance of play in the child’s life.

Dances and Stories of the American

Indian

By Bernard S. Mason. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $5.00.
N WRITING THIS BOOK it has been the author’s purpose
not only to preserve the dances of the American
Indians but to preserve them in action, not merely in
printed word, and as dances that we ourselves may use
and enjoy. The dances presented were selected for' the
adaptability to production, authenticity, representation of
the various main cultural areas, and an attempt to include
as many themes, motifs and types of dances as possible.

'In addition to the diagrams, there are 27 reproductions of

beautiful photographs showing dancers in full costume.

55

56 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

A Shady Hobby.

By Jean Frances Bennett. The Bruce Publishing
Company, 540 N. Milwaukee Street, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. $2.00.

\Vith this title, the book has to be about silhouettes!
It is for beginners, not commercial artists, and with its
delightful illustrations it is a charming as well as a
practical and informative volume for all who “will Open
their eyes to the beauty contained in the world of black
and white.”

The American Sports Library.

A. S. Barnes & Company, 67 \Vest 44th Street, New
'ork 18.

thcial Guides for 1944 available include Swimming,
\Vrestling, Boxing, Ice Hockey, and Volley Ball. Each
Guide is available at 50 cents.

Measuring M unicipal Activities.

A Survey of Suggested Criteria for Appraising Ad-
ministration. By Clarence E. Ridley and Herbert A.
Simon. The International City Managers’ Associa-
tion, Chicago, $2.00. ‘

The International City Managers’ Association has re-
vised its recommendations for measuring the adminis-
trative effectiveness of municipal services. The basic
material has not been modified substantially, but a new
intrdduction has been prepared interpreting evaluation
processes, commenting on the values and weaknesses of
national standards for governmental services, and sum-
marizing progress made in evaluation during the past five
years in a number of fields of municipal government
service. In the introduction a statement is made that
“adequacy is entirely a relative matter: there is no such
thing as an adequate administrative service, for higher
levels of service can almost always be provided if more
funds are available. Likewise, there is no such thing as
inadequate service, for inadequacy, too, is relative to the
standard the community wants and is willing to pay for.”

Is this not an unfortunate statement to be made by a
national association of chief executives of municipal
government? It is understandable that a community
might not appreciate the need of certain services and
therefore accepts a meager budget for such services. But
it does not necessarily follow that the restricted services
provided are adequate just because the locality, generally
because of lack of understanding of needs, is currently
unwilling to finance a broader service.

The suggestions for measuring existing services of
various city departments should prove helpful. The
section on recreation recognizes the difficulty of measur-
ing.the intangible values of effective service but perhaps
it attaches a little too much importance to juvenile
delinquenCy statistics as a measuring rod for the value of
local recreation. The volume on the whole should prove
helpful to local municipal chief executives and depart-
ment heads.

Australian Bush Songs.

The Boston Book Music Company, Boston, Mass.
$.60.

For the music director who would vary his program
with folklore from faraway~lands, here are seventeen
tribal songs from Australia.

Roller Skating Through the Years.

Edited by Morris Traub. The William-Frederick
Press, 313 West 35th Street, New York 1.

Back in the early eighteenth century an anonymous
Hollander nailed some large wooden spools to strips of
wood attached to his shoes, and with this crude type
of roller skate bumped down the pavements and along
the roads of Holland. Thus the roller skate was born.

The development of the sport over a period of almost

two hundred years is a fascinating story which is told
by Mr. Traub in this book.

M ore by Corwin.

By Norman Corwin. Henry Holt and Company,
New York. $3.00.

Here are sixteen dramas by a well-known writer for
the radio. Each play is accompanied by studio notes.
Clifton Fadiman in his introduction points out that the
plays are not only playable but readable.

Doubletal_k Crossword Puzzles.

Edited Iby Albert Morehead. Alfred A. KnOpf, New
York. $1.50. '

Few of the 55 crossword puzzles presented in this
volume have ever before been published, They represent
a new kind of puzzle in that while they are made with
the words you already know the definitions are purely
“doubletalk.” And while they seem to mean one thing

they actually mean something entirely different. This
adds to the fun!

The Chinese-American Song and Game Book.

Compiled by A. Gertrude Jacobs. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New‘York. $2.50.

These games and songs were collected by the major
physical education students at Yenching University, Peip—
mg, China. With its beautiful pictures, games, songs, and
language in both English and Chinese, the book is an
unusually fascinating publication. '

The illustrations by an unknown and untutored Chinese
child artist fourteen years of age constitute a set of
drawings which are a real contribution to art.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary Of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASRELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARI. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J’. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, \Vashington, D. C.

RECREATION

