I Have Put Myself Out of the Game

I

"I HAVE PUT myself out of the game,’ were the words of a four-
and—a—half—year—old kindergarten girl. as she stepped out of the
circle. She knew the rules; she knew she had forgotten them. Cheer-

' fully and smilingly she dropped out. This was self—discipline.

In tennis no one but the player may be conscious that he has
violated the rules, that he committed a fault, that the ball was
slightly over the line, but the player scorns to take advantage of
his opponent because no one saw. He throws the next point, serves
out of the court rather than profit because the oilicial did not see.
The player himself decides. His action is automatic. Hendoes not
debate with himself about it. This is what is expected, what the
player eXpects of himself. A

There are games in which such traditions have not been built
up, where it is fairly customary to plan to profit by wrong decisions
of the oflicial in charge. '

There are families, at least a few, where for two generations
traditions and discipline are such that penalties for certain actions
have been accepted as a matter of course, as inevitable, as the way
things are. The children grew up to recognize that they lived in an
orderly world where there were traditions and principles. The chil-
dren had freedom, but if they violated the traditions they knew they
took the consequences, and expected to. There was a very consid—
erable sense of security in knowing that one lived in a world that
was fairly fixed, where chance did not prevail.

There is no greater problem before recreation leaders this summer
and all summers than this: to build such traditions, such an
atmosphere that discipline becomes self—discipline, that youngsters
say to themselves without resentment, "I put myself out ,of the

 

 

game."
HOWARD BRAUCHER
JUNE I944 Henry 1,,;,h.,.f  H“
MacMurrug-r a. “a ., a . _ 
Jacksonville,udn0m

June '

 

Photo by W. F. Sanfa

A few 01‘ fhe f'n‘feen hundred girls of Pih‘sfield. MassachuseHs. whoI fhrough

fhe manifold acfivifies, of +|1e Girls' League Associa‘fionI are learning how fo
fakefheir places as cii’izens and mofhers of fomorrow. (For sfory see page l56.)

1 14 - )_ RECREATION

uHaving a Wondertul Time"

OWN 1N Memphis, .Ten-
D nessee, we believe that if

the playground is to be
the recreation center of a com-
munity, the program should
include not only sports and
handicraft but also many spe-
cial events that stir up enthusiasm and bring in
those outsiders who are reluctant to enter into the
regular program.

So in our summer playground program there is
a place for the “Special Day,” with novelty features
and interesting events introduced into the regular
. program to make the playground seem alive with
fun possibilities. An entire day is set aside for this
major project and, called “Special Day,” it is
just that!

Flag raising ceremonies at 9 A. M. are different
from other days. In-
stead of little North
American boys and girls

The directors of the various activi-
ties' departments of the Recreation
Department. Park Commission. Mem-
phis. Tennessee. collaborated in the
preparation of this interesting arti-
cle on the city's playground program.

The shelves look a little bare Because 45 children have
just taken toys from the Toy Lending Library main-

around the flag pole, we may
iind a group of South Sea
Islanders, Indians, Pirates or
Senoritas and Senorasl An-
other week we may tind a
small collection of live animals
ranging from snakes to don-
keys, each accompanied by his proud owner. It all
depends on just what special day it is, for the chil-
dren keep in character with the assigned theme in
all of their activities until the playground closes at
night with a special program in which adults also
participate.

“Salute to the Armed Forces”———Their Theme

These special days of the summer playground
program are in keeping with the assigned theme
of the playground project. Last summer in our
“Salute to the Armed
Forces” program we
presented in turn —

tained by the Recreation Department of Memphis

 

lUNE 1944

115

116 “HAVING A WONDERFUL TIME”

Over There—Flag Day celebration and Know
Your Neighbors program, with ‘a progressive
games party and barn dance in the evening.

Pets and Parades—followed by the selectiOn of
the playground mascot pet on all playgrounds, and
a blue ribbon awarded each contestant.

Patriotic. Week—embracing the Fourth of July
celebration, with a colorful pageant on each play-
ground. '

On the Land—‘with Hawaiian festivals in com-
memoration of the annexation of Hawaii, and play-
ground Army day, honoring former members of
the playground band who are soldiers or “Land
Forces,” featuring the first of the armed services
programs.

In the Air—a tribute to the Air Corps, including
“Castles in the Air,” storytelling festivals, “En-
chanted \Veek,” when each playground presented
its own interpretation of the playground pageant,
Robin Hood, and a city—wide model airplane con-
test at Overton Park.

Over the Water Day—The Navy and Marines
were honored on Over the Water Day, when the
playground children not only sailed the seven seas
in imagination, but held miniature boat regattas
and wading pool carnivals at which they selected
Miss and Master Playground Water. Baby, a Play-
ground Pirate, a Baby Sailor, Soldier, and Marine,
as well as a champion water pet to represent the
playground at the annual city-wide contest at
'Overton Park on Saturday, when Miss and Mas—
ter Playground Water Baby were crowned and
awarded silver loving cups. The sixth annual
Joseph Lee Day, with -a dragon boat festival,
Chinese holiday and playground lantern parade
and boat carnivals, was equally colorful.

We Go Athletic— Safety and Sports Week
stressed health for victory with a play, Olympic
parade of athletes, sports tableaux, boys’ tumbling
exhibition and girls’ dancing, teen age teams’
tournament, and an adult croquet tournament at
Overton Park on Sunday.

Westward Ho—This brought rodeos, trading
posts, barn dances, and Wild West shows, with
everyone in cowboy, cowgirl, Indian and pioneer
costume.

And at the End!

The final special day, before the big playground
festival at Overton Park climaxing the end of the
summer playground season, is also the climax of

the individual playground special days. “Salute to

‘ Our Armed Forces” on the land, in the air, over

the water, and around the world with Uncle Sam,
honored all former playground boys and girls
serving in the far corners of the earth. '

The program consisted of an exhibition of play-
ground pageant dancing, tumbling, stunts and
summer playground projects on each playground.
It was a miniature play festival for the entire com-
munity, serving as a preview of the big and final
day the following week, when all the playground
family gathered for a whole day of fun at Overton
Park.

The first honor trophy for special day programs
was awarded to Overton Playground. There,
almost within the shadow of the municipal open
air theater, the children had an outdoor theater of
their own. Every Sunday afternoon their series of
children’s plays received an enthusiastic reSponse
from an audience of several hundred spectators.
When the winter program began, the young stock
players continued their plays at a near-by com-
munity center. When the good old summer time
rolls around again they will be ready with a new
series of open air shows including, The Emperor’s
N ew Clothes, Tom S awyer’s Treasure H ant, Lit-
tle Black Samba, Peter Rabbit, and a group writ-
ten version of Gulliver’s Travels.

For Adults, T 00

Not forgetting the adults in the playground
neighborhood, certain playgrounds are open during
the evening hours and 'on Sunday afternoons for
special recreation activities which appeal to grown-
ups. These activities consist of group games,
square dancing, and athletic games for physical
exercise; contests, community singing, music and
dramatic programs for mental relaxation. with
some handicraft activities for manual dexterity.
War workers are encouraged to participate in all
these activities, and the entire program is built up
with morale, welfare, and service as chief consid-
erations in meeting the changing needs .of the
adults in the playground community. '

Not all adults are active participants. Some
overburdened mothers find’it restful just to “look

ion,” with a baby in arms and a couple of toddlers

clinging shyly to their skirts, while a tired Daddy
sits propped against a tree, pipe in mouth, absorb-
ing new strength for the world’s work from con-
tact with nature. The young men, and those not
so young, enjoy softball on the playgrounds and
baseball on special athletic fields. Mixed volley ball,

RECREATION

“HAVING A WONDERFUL TIME” 117

 

Children of Overtona and South Side Playgrounds
strike a practical note on the Playground Play—
time Program over Radio Station WM PS with their
original play—"Every Fire Today Is Sabotage."

horseshoe pitching, bad-
minton, tennis, paddle
tennis, and croquet are
equally popular for men
and women. Each individual seems to find recrea-
tion, in his own fashion, from the facilities offered
him on the summer playground program. To
keep in touch with needs, playground directors
attend meetings, when possible, of the various civic
clubs and parent-teacher associations; they know
the different churches and ministers, and they are
familiar with every situation that may, and does,
affect the playground to which they have been
assigned.

Each playground has an adult advisory commit-
tee or group that helps the playground staff in
conducting and working for more and better lei-
sure-time activities for young and old alike. This
is supplemented by play leaders and Courtesy
Clubs which have been formed on the playgrounds
to aid in the conduct of the children. Through
them the children learn the cooperative spirit
which leads to good citizenship. The play leaders
are older girls and boys who have been selected
by the directors of the playgrounds for their lead-
ership and fair play qualities. They assist in group
games, assembling the children on time for various
activities, and are the director’s right hand. They

JUNE 1944

are frequently the play-
ground directors of the
future.

The Recreation De-
partment of Memphis believes that each child has -
a heart full of melody and rhythm, and that he
should have a chance to express it. So twice a
Week last summer a dancing and singing director
visited each playground with the little red piano
securely fastenedin the station wagon. The chil-
dren’s repertoire of songs was unlimited and in-
cluded everything from Stephen Foster ballads to

the latest on the Hit Parade. Each playground

had three official songs—a playground, a safety,
and a project song for which the lyrics were writ-
ten by the children themselves. They were sung
on special night programs and competitively be-
tween each playground on play festival day. In
1943 the project song was the official song of the
branch of the armed forces represented by each
playground.

In the dancing class the children were taught to
interpret music, and many of them knew twenty-
five or thirty rhythms. Even the tiny babies began
to march when they heard the “Parade of the
Wooden Soldiers,” or spread out their beautiful
wings like butterflies when the pianist played “La

' Papillon.” Last summer the dancing classes were

118 "HAVING A WONDERFUL TIME”

really rehearsals for the playground pageant, Robin
Hood, and after the preliminary exercises each
playground would start in on its own individual
dance—Ladies of the Court, Milkmaids, Jesters,
and others. The boys became Robin Hoods and
staged realistic fights with quarter staves and bows
and arrows which they made themselves. When it
was time to start for the next playground, the
pianist played “Coming Thru the Rye,” the chil-
dren curtsied, marched by the teacher, said good-
bye, turned a cartwheel, and were off for another

activity such as the handcraft or creative play-

program.

Service Activities

This program was designed to give the children
a share in the war effort, and the theme, “A Salute
to Our Armed Forces,” was just what the term
implied.

After each playground had selected the branch
of the armed services which it wished to represent,
the creative play classes began the fun of con-
structing the three main projects of the summer.
These consisted of a bond booth, the insignia flag
of the service represented, and a wooden back

scrapbook containing all the available pictures and
information about the service selected.

The bond booths wereiconstructed of all types
of scrap lumber and corrugated boxes salvaged

from the neighborhood of the playground. The .

decorative mediums were varied and the designs
patriotic. The booth was used in the weekly sale
of war stamps and bonds to the children of the
neighborhood. A total of $21,983.15 in war bonds

and stamps was sold on the playgrounds during
the summer of 1943.

The silk flags, 3’ x 5’, which are made by the
playgrounds each summer have become an institu-
tion not only in our Department but in the.city
and surrounding country as well. The office is
deluged with requests frpm various civic organiza-
tions to borrow the group of Pan American flags
made in 1941, or the United Nations set made
during the summer of 1942. To these groups was
added last summer the insignia flags of the armed
forces. Each flag bears the insignia or, in some
cases, is a reproduction of the official flag of the
branch of the service represented by the play-
ground. The Infantry flag consists of crossed
rifles of gold on a blue held. The U. S. Naval
Academy and U. S. Military Academy flags are
reproductions of. the official insignia. These flags

are carried by children in many parades in which
the Recreation Department takes part.

When the last touch has been added to the
wooden scrapbook, everyone on the playground
comes to admire. Some books are works of art
inside and out, and contain a store of knowledge
of the various armed forces. All book covers are
made of plywood, 9%,” x 13”, so that standard
9”x12” construction paper may be used for
pages. The backs are decorated with letters and

' cutouts of wood, leather, felt, and tin. The Book

Committee compiles all information and writes ex-
planatory passages. Playground artists make the
book interesting with illustrations. Many trips are
made to the local Recruiting thces for pamphlets
and information freely given by the servicemen in
charge. '

Sand boxes on all playgrounds wereinlled dur-
ing the summer with models of various insignia,
boats, planes, and tanks. At the play festival at the
end of the summer season, the sand modeling
contest was held under a big green tent. Two
children from each playground modeled in the
sand some object which pertained to the branch of
service which their playground represented.

All projects, as well as individual handcraft ar«
ticles, were displayed by each playground at the
play festival under a separate tent bearing the
name of the playground and flying an American
Bag and the insignia flag.

Through the theme, “A Salute to the Armed
Forces,” the playground children, in seeking in-
formation, talking with servicemen, and construct-
ing the various projects, have gleaned a clearer
and better view of our war effort.

Still another war effort by the playground chil—
dren was the tin can collection, and they colletted
a total of 179,594 tin cans during the summer
season. For the play festival, a throne was built
by each playground in front of its tent. Each
throne had a canopy and seat on an elevation with
the names of the Tin Can Prince and Princess (the
boy and girl who collected the most tin cans on
their respective playgrounds), and the number of
cans collected. The Tin Can Prince and Princess
led their playground in the Olympic parade. Later
in the day, on a natural stage at Overton Park
Lake, a committee of judges selected the King and
Queen, who were crowned by the Mayor of Mem-
phis. Then, proudly wearing their tin crowns. they

were rowed away by real sailors to be admired by,

the playground children seated across the lake.

RECREATION

“HAVING A WONDERFUL TIME” 119

On the Air!

In addition to the activities conducted on the
playgrounds, the Memphis boys and girls write,
act, and sing on the radio.

“Hi deedle le dee—it’s Lady Make Believe,
Hi deedle 1e dum, to all the parks she comes,
She has a bag of otter skin to keep her plays

and stories in.
Hi deedle le dee, it’s Lady Make Believe.”

Heard every Saturday morning over Station
VVMPS in Memphis, this theme song has become a
familiar one to the children in that city. As the
children’s voices fade, a feminine voice takes over
-—-—“Good morning, boys and girls, this is Lady
Make Believe and the otter. skin bag. A favorite
story in the otter skin bag is that of Little Red
Riding Hood. The boys and girls of Memphis
playgrounds are waiting this morning to give you
‘ their version of the old, old story, and if it’s
slightly different from the story as you’ve heard it
before, remember stories as well as people some-
times change in the course of time. So let’s be off.”

Realizing that drama and music hold a fascina-
tion for young people, the City Recreation Depart-
* ment has sought to combine the two in weekly
broadcasts for children and with children as par-
ticipants. Lady Make Believe’s otter skin bag has
quite a history behind it. It seems that in the dim
‘ long ago, according to an old Indian legend,
Skundy Wundy, the first storyteller, cornered a
clever old fox in the wilderness and made him tell
his tales of romance and adventure. One by one,
Skundy Wundy put the stories into a bag of otter
skin for boys and girls to hear when they came
upon this earth. And that’s how we know what
happened in the dim long ago, and that’s where
Lady Make Believe gets all the stories and songs
she brings to the microphone each Saturday morn-
ing. The songs are sung and the plays enacted by
children from each of the nineteen summer play-
grounds and the five winter community centers.
Station \VMPS has cooperated with the Recrea—
tion Department in donating the half hour radio
time each week.

The program has served a multifold purpose.
It has brought the activities of the playgrounds and
the community centers into the homes. This past
summer, when the project of the summer play-
grounds was “A Salute to Our Armed Forces,”
the half hour show depicted in song and story in-
teresting data about various branches of our armed
services. For instance, a musical play about Molly
Pitcher brought to light the fact that this early

JUNE 1944

American heroine was a true forerunner of the
W'ACs—in so far as the young lady who took over
her husband’s position on the field of battle was
commissioned by George Washington as a sergeant
in the Continental Army. The winter series of
children’s plays has helped to satisfy the insatiable
appetite of children everywhere for plays and en—
tertainment. Aside from the time-honored fairy
and folk tales, the series has offered Gulliver’s
Travels, Dickens’ Christmas Carol, The Happy
Prince, Toyland, Peter Rabbit, Ten Minutes by
the Clock, and Rachel Field’s Three Pills in a
Bottle.

To familiarize the young artists with radio terms
and technique a radio dictionary was distributed.
The bulletin included the meaning of fade in, fade
out, off mike, ad lib, and other terms. Illustrations
picturing the director’s meaning when she makes
certain gestures during a broadcast were included
to enliven the material.

The bulletin concluded with suggestions for pro-
ducing sound effects, and each playground and
center now has its own sound effect men—"boys
and girls who are not particularly interested in
acting and singing but who do like the technical
end of radio work. These young technicians can
produce anything from the roar of a lion to a first-
rate thunderstorm.

Besides developing young radio performers and
technicians, the program is now to be a training
ground for future radio script writers. Beginning
February 19 and running through March 20,
194.4, the Recreation Department is sponsoring a
radio playwriting contest for which all grammar,
junior high and high school students in Memphis
are eligible. The boys and girls are being en-
couraged through the local press, the public schools
and the community centers to write their own
original radio plays or dramatize a fairy or folk
tale. The winner is to receive a gold medal, and
the three best plays will be presented on the air—
April I 5th, 22nd, and 29th. The young playwrights
will be interviewed and will announce their own
programs. Judges include representatives from the
Memphis Little Theater, Radio Station WMPS,
the Public Library, and the chairman of the Chil-
dren’s Theater of the Junior League of Memphis.

It is hoped that not only three but many worth-
while plays ‘will be submitted by budding play-
wrights—enough to supply the playground play-
time program with material for the whole summer
of 1944. Then it will truly be a program with
children, by children, and for children.

At Home on

OURTII OF JULY celebra-
F tions are not uncommon

in Philadelphia. This his-
toric city has reasons to ob—
serve the birth of Our freedom.
It was in Philadelphia, in In—
dependence Hall, in the year
1776 that the Declaration of
Independence was drafted
and signed by the Second
Continental Congress. This
act gave us our liberty
which we have cherished
for one hundred and sixty-
seven years.

In 1943, Philadelphia marked
Independence Day with more
than usual emphasis. The city
was alive with celebrations,
bunting, flags, parades, bands,
music, patriotic music and songs. Gaiety pre—
vailed in playgrounds, city squares, parks and lots.
The spirit of festivity was everywhere.

The celebrations were more numerous than in
former years and every commemoration was con—
ducted on a greater scale. A number of ceremonies
began at eight o’clock in the morning and con-
tinued until midnight. Baby parades, lucky num-
ber drawings, events for youngsters, boys and
girls, baseball, volley ball, softball, social dancing,
square dances, entertainment and music provided
activities and amusements for everyone in the
community of every age.

The Councilmanic body of Philadelphia made
the large scale celebrations possible. Realizing
that war conditions would prevent a wholesale
exodus from the city for the July Fourth holiday,
the Councilmen took measures to create a happy
time for the stay-at-home Philadelphians. The
City Fathers appropriated the sum of $30,000 for
community celebrations. The money was divided
so that Legion Posts, civic or-
ganizations, churches and play-
grounds were financially pro-
vided to conduct interesting
programs throughout the city.

The Bureau of Recreation
received $15,000 which was al—
lotted to thirty-nine recreation

120

. it. '
llthlUu

I I

ry

w

 

By MINNA B. REICHELT

Assistant Chief. Bureau of Recreation
PhiladelphiaI Pennsylvania

Patriotic citizens of Philadelphia to
the number of almost |25.000 chose to
stay at home last summer to observe
' Independence Day at the municipal
playgrounds. Thus it came about that
the "City of Brotherly Love'I enioyed

its largest fa mily celebration in history!

.4 ?\ ; <1_ 1’

l‘\ I.

/

.l r .r

July 4th!

centers under its jurisdiction. l
The centers received from
$200 to $500 each to conduct
stimulating affairs. Various
organizations and individuals
in the communities were in-
vited to form committees by
the supervisors of the recrea-
tion centers so that the pro-
gram would be a real com-
munity celebration.
Businessmen’s associa-
tions, civilian defense groups,
Legion Posts, church socie—
ties, neighborhood councils,
citizens’ committees, women’s
committees, athletic associa-
tions, scoutmasters, parents’
associations and many other
groups worked hand in hand
with the playground supervisors. Placards and
posters were printed and displayed and handbills
were distributed inviting the public to be a part
of Philadelphia’s observance of this day.

lllll.llsll

Gedge Harmon

The Programs

The programs were varied throughout the city.
Some were conducted on a greater scale than
others but 351 hours of fun were packed in the
thirty-nine playground celebrations. Young and
old were there to take an active part,in events, to
lend a helping hand or to be entertained.

The distribution of flags and hats, a neighbor-
hood parade, flag raising, pledge of allegiance, the
singing of “The Star—Spangled Banner,” and pa-
triotic speeches were the opening exercises held.
From then on youngsters vied for prizes in athletic
and novelty events, scrambled for peanuts, drank
soda pop or birch beer from iced kegs, ate sand-
wiches and milk at noontime or enjoyed dixie
cups or ice cream. Babies paraded in decorated
coaches and were awarded
prizes. Adults and married
couples took part in novelty
events, played volley. ball, soft-
ball and baseball, enjoyed
music, vaudeville shows, mo-
tion pictures and dancing or
volunteered their time to sit at

RECREATION

AT HOIUE 0N JULY 4111! 121

booths selling stamps and bonds. In many cases
war stamps were'issued for prizes; war bonds
. were presented to several lucky winners and a war
stamp given to each participant in parades and

events.

The program at Starr Garden Recreation Cen-
ter is typical of the programs at many of the
centers:

10:00 Flag Raising and Singing
Reading “Declaration of Independence”
10:15 Addresses by Prominent Speakers
“God Bless America”
10:30 Children’s Events (under 10 years)
12:00 Distribution of Creamsicles and Flags
1:00 to 2:00 Track and Field Events (Boys and Girls
10 to 14 years)
2:00 to 3:00 Track and Field Events (Boys and Girls
14 to 16 years)
3:00 to 4:00 Track and Field Events (Boys and Girls

over 16 years)
"4 :00 to 5:00 Novelty Events (Men and Women)

5:30 Distribution of Creamsicles

_7:00 Dances and Songs 'by the Children
7:30 Vaudeville Acts

8:00 Amateur Talent Contest

8:30 Demonstration 'by Air Raid Wardens
8:45 Moving Pictures on the Grounds

9:00 to 10:00 Social Dancing

 

Since 1925, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, has had an
official Fourth of July Commission whose object
it is “to promote and encourage the observance of
Independence Day, July 4, in a safe as well as
patriotic manner, to inculcate in the minds of both
children and adults the true meaning of independ-
ence and the glory in being privileged to be a citi—
zen of this noble country, the United States of
America.”

The Commission consists of sixteen citizens of
the County of Milwaukee appointed by the Mayor.
(Dorothy Enderis, in charge of recreation, is a
member.) The Commission is organized with a
chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, and treasurer
(who is the city treasurer), and there are a num-
ber of subcommittees which have the power to
appoint such person or persons as they may deem
necessary to carry out the plans for the Fourth of
July programs. The standing committees appointed

by the chairman include the following:
Athletics and Games Park Equipment

Doll Parades and Juvenile Program

Floats Publicity and Printing
Budget Executive
Fireworks Emergency
Music Orphaned and Handicapped
Organization Children

Parades and Parks

JUNE 1944

 

ln view of the importance placed by the
city of Philadelphia on the celebration of
Independence Day. it is interesting to note
that PennsylvaniaI in l873. was the first state
to make this occasion a legal holiday. There
is recordI however, of its observance by the
citizens of New Bern, North CarolinaI in
I778. and it was celebrated elsewhere before

the action of Pennsylvania was followed by
all the states.

 

The bylaws of the constitution provide for an
organization for each park with the following

officers :

President Coaster chairman

Vice-president Program chairman

Secretary Music chairman
Treasurer Refreshments chairman
Park chairman Fireworks chairman
Marshal Games chairman

Doll chairman Finance chairman

The president, vice-president, secretary, and
'treasurer are elected officers. Other officials and
the chairmen of the various committees are ap-
pointed by the president. Additional ofhcers and
helpers may be provided by each park organiza-
tion to function as assistants to the regular chair-
man.

The park organizations are in charge of cele-
brations at individual parks, and in 1943, eighteenb
parks participated with programs including com-'
munity singing, dancing, concerts, and similar
activities. ""

The program at Wauwatosa Park follows:

12:301‘.M. Assemble on school grounds. \Vill you
and several of your teachers volunteer
to assist your marshal in distributing
flags and in starting the children to
the central meeting point?

1 :00 P.1\l. Parade
2:00P.M. Arrive at parks. Distribution of ice
cream to those who participated in
the parade
2:30- 3 :00 P.M. Doll and coaster parades
4:00-6:30 P.M. Patriotic program prepared by the
various schools
7:30 P.M. Evening program

.3

Burbank Makes Full Use of its Parks

HE ESTABLISHMENT of
Tnumerous defense plants
in Burbank, California,
has changed this home COITl-
niunity into an industrial city
and has brought in thousands of new residents.
With this great influx of population has come an
ever-increasing need for public recreation. A far—
sighted superintendent of the municipal Parks and
Recreation Department, backed up by an enthusi-
astic Board of Commissioners, is meeting the de-
mand with a well—rounded recreation program
covering all types of activity and all age groups.
The summer of 1943 saw inaugurated the first
full-time, directed program for all five park areas
within the city. Two full-time, paid supervisors
were assigned to each park to carry out a program
of activity every day of the week, with special
events and “treats” arranged from time to time.
Activity varied in the areas, and each supervisor
was encouraged to develop different types of in-
terest, always keeping in mind a proper balance
between active and passive entertainment.

By FLORENCE G. EDGERLY
Direcfor of Public Relafions and Publicify
Parlcs and Recreafion Deparfmenf

Burbank, California

Active Sports always take
an important place in sum-
mer fun, so all kinds were in—
cluded in the program. Ten-
nis, badminton, shuffleboard,
table tennis, clock golf, softball, basketball, and a
wading pool were available in three areas, while
another had teeters, swings, tetherballs and like
equipment. The fifth park, located in a mountain
area, offered a fine wading pool but nothing in
game equipment except the few quiet games
brought in for the season. But the young people
found ample entertainment in the great outdoors
and built their program around nature herself.

The hour immediately following lunch was
storytelling time, with dramatics included to make
the game more thrilling. This provided a quiet
time in the heat of the day and helped to keep the
little folks from becoming overtired.

Handcraft occupied many hours, but because of
the shortage of critical material it really became
“scrap craft,” supervisors vying with each other in

(Continued on page .158)

 

RECREATION

' Leaders

' lar but expanded courses

Junior
Nature

Today
and

Tomorrow

HE IDEA OF PUPIL leadership in the field of
Tnature is an outgrowth of greatly increased

demands upon the park naturalist in the Na-
tional Capital Parks for conducted nature walks
for school children. In the course of the program
the point was reached where there were not enough
hours to go around and many requests had to be
turned down. In casting about for some better
means of meeting the situation, the park naturalist
conceived the idea of training “apt” school chil-
dren to do this leading in his stead.

In April 1940, invitations were sent to five '

selected local elementary schools to participate in
an experimental junior nature leaders’ training
course. Six' pupils from the sixth grade and a
similar number from the fifth grade were selected
as understudies by their teachers. The choice was
based upon recognized .
qualities of leadership and
interest in natural history.
Groups from each school
were in charge of a teacher-
monitor who was the per-
son most interested in na-
ture study in that school.
Seventy-five persons en-
rolled in the first course.
So successful did this ex-
periment prove that simi-

have been offered each

JUNE 1944

 

 

In these days of destructive warfare it has
become axiomatic that in the midst of war we
are preparing for tomorrow's peace. Nothing
could be more significant in this regard than
the training of our children as leaders to teach
their fellow schoolmates—and oldsters too——
a greater appreciation of nature and thus
spread the philosophy of conservation.

This is the aim of the pupil nature leaders'
training course offered to the school children

of Washington. D. C.. by the National Park
Service through the National Capital Parks.

Courtesy Nationa! Elementary Principal

By DONALD EDWARD MCHENRY
Parl< Naturalist
National Capital Parlcs

spring since then. With these experiences as a
background it is possible to offer the following dis-
cussion of the various techniques employed.

Indoor Sessions

Springtime has been selected for the course be-
cause of the obvious advantage of interesting field
trips. The course itself consists of six Saturday
morning sessions of about two and a half hours
duration, each followed by an equal number of

Sunday afternoon field ~

trips. For the Saturday

morning meetings a small
auditorium, as centrally
located as possible, was
selected. Each indoor ses-
sion was divided into two
parts separated by a ten-
minute recess. During the

first part of each session a
(different phase of natural

history was presented. The

subjects included local
spring Howers, given on

123

124 JUNIOR NATURE LEADERS TODAY AND TOMORROW

' two successive Saturday mornings, local trees,
birds, animals, and geology.

In presenting a natural history subject indoors,
emphasis was placed upon recognition of identify-
ing features through the use of natural color pict-

ures projected on a screen which showed habitats.

and close-ups of structure. These were augmented
by displays of mounted material, study skins, and
hand specimens. Facts about economic, human,
Indian, and legendary uses Were given where pos-
sible. Such facts enlivened even the most ordinary
item of study, aided the children in remembering
it, and stimulated enthusiasm for sharing such
knowledge with others. '

The latter part of each indoor period was de-
voted to intensive review of all material previ-
ously discussed. Pictures or Specimens were pre-
sented in rapid sequence for quick recognition and
terse statements of some pertinent information.
Such reviews were usually marked by a lively
spirit of keen competition.

Books on the particular sub-
ject being considered were in-
troduced and displayed for ex-
amination at each Saturday
morning meeting. These were
supplemented by leaflets pre-
pared on local natural history
features‘. These leaflets to-
gether with any specimens collected in the field
and the enrollee’s own notes were incorporated
into pupils’ notebooks for the course. In addition,
each enrollee was required to prepare a simple
theme paper of not less than two pages on some
phase of the work of the course. Both notebooks
and themes were checked without grades by the
naturalist staff at the end of the course and an ap-
propriate statement of commendation was noted.

Trips to local museums were suggested and en-
couraged by awarding additional recognition at the
end of the course.

Field Excursions

On the Sunday afternoon field excursions the
enrollees examined the actual specimens in their
native habitat. Individuals were given opportunity
to lead the group on parts of these trips. Tech-
niques in field leadership2 were introduced on
these walks and improvements suggested. All this
training was supplemented by discussions at meet-

 

1. Outdoor Leadership, G. A. Pctridcs, Park: and Recreation,
Vol. XXVI, No. 7, pp. 306-13, Sept.-Oct. 1943.

2. Ibid, pp. 325-6.

"Today's children will be the leaders
of tomorrow and the guardians of our
great out-ot-door areas. To them.
from the depth of our present philoso-
phy of destruction. we can confidently
pass the torch of conservation and all
that it means in abundant living."

ings of the school nature club under the direction
of the teacher-monitor.

The actual nature walks for all the pupils in a
given school are the climax of the training courses.
In final preparation, the pupil nature leaders and
their understudies were taken by the park natur-
alist to an outdoor area near their school. With
the aid of their teacher-monitor a trail or route
was laid out for each leader, and numbers were
assigned to each trail and leader. Before leaving
the classroom, each child was given a number cor-
responding to a trail and a leader. Thus each
leader was in charge of the same number of chil-
dren, and the children reported readily to the
leader whose number they held.

The third grade was the first group to be taken
on these nature walks. They were selected because
they were young enough to accept readily this type
of leadership and yet old enough to grasp the in-
tent of the outing. Self-confidence in their ability
‘ as leaders was thus given the

best possible chance for de-
velopment. By the time they
had come to the last walk of
the series with their own class-
mates, they had reached the
peak Of their growth in this
undertaking.

The last meeting with the
park naturalist was on the nature walk with the
third grade pupils. He, however, together with
the third grade teacher, and possibly the nature
teacher-monitor, stayed definitely in the back-
ground exercising the barest minimum of super-
vision. At the close of this nature walk the leaders
and the naturalist held a final conference to clear
up any remaining points. From then on the pupil
nature leaders were on their own, except for the
unobtrusive presence of the grade teacher of the
group in case of any needed discipline. Thus the
nature walk programs have been launched to serve
thousands of Washington school children instead
of the hundreds possible under the personal guid-
ance of the park naturalist.

“Graduation” Exercises

“Graduation” exercises were held at the various
schools in the form of a school nature assembly.
The program, organized and presented by the en—
rollees of the training course, consisted of sketches
presented by pupils dramatizing nature experi-
ences along the trail during the course. At the
close of the program the park superintendent and

RECREATION

JUNIOR NATURE LEADERS TODAY AND TOMORROW

a member of the naturalist staff awarded certifi—

cates t0 the junior nature leaders. Three types of
certificates were given. One was a certificate with
honor given to those who had done outstanding
and additional work in the course. Another cer-
tificate recognized satisfactory completion of the
minimum requirements of the course, while the
third was in the form of a statement of accom-
plishments below the minimum requirements.
Thus every participant in the course received some
sort of recognition and yet a very keen sense of
competition was preserved. Such “graduation”
exercises, although simple in form, dignified the
aims and ideals of the training course in the minds
of all the school pupils attending the assembly, and
led naturally to the final step in the program.

Problems to Be Solved

‘ To date, junior nature leader programs have
been promoted principally in the elementary
schools. ,~ Nevertheless a few junior high and senior
high school pupils have enrolled in the training
course. There is every reason to believe that such
a program will eventually be extended to high
schools with necessary modifications. However,
before these next steps are taken certain problems
inherent in the present scheme demand solution.
Probably most pressing
is the need for reaching a
greater percentage of the
elementary schools in a
- metropolitan area such as
the city of Washington.
The most centrally lo-
cated meeting place will
still involve distances too
great to make it possible
for children from outly-
ing schools to attend the
course. Since there is a
definite relationship be-
tween the time of the
year the course is sched- ‘
uled and the seasonal ex—
pression of nature, it
does not seem wise to
stagger several courses in
order to accomplish this
end. Instead of Saturday
morning meetings it may
be better to arrange ses-
sions during regular
school periods, excusing

lUNE 1944

 

125

enrollees from their regular school work during
these times. Such a scheme would make it possi-
ble to Operate a number of centers on successive
days, devoting one week to each subject in all cen-
ters. This would also avoid conflicts with chil-
den’s Saturday appointments such as music les-

sons, visits to the dentist, shopping tours and the'

like.

Six weekly indoor meetings and as“ many field
trips may at first appear to be totally inadequate
and superficial. Only the most evident highlights
of each phase of the several fields considered are
emphasized and they are presented in extreme
simplicity. It is felt that for the sake of maintain-
ing a high level of interest and enthusiasm, there
is, considerable virtue in confining the course to
this limited period.

Although these junior nature leaders’ training
courses have been designed and conducted for
school children as a part of their school science
work, their application has by no means been
confined to this scope alone. At their request, a
limited number of adult leaders from Boy and Girl

( C mitimted on page 164)

The park naturalist gives a group of junior
nature leaders their final field instructions

. 9%» -

4b

"lv’u-«ui‘wi- -.  
Holman

.IIJIIIIL-i

I‘IUIH’

U) m; or!“ I "-1 
l ..JA‘L ...___-p.ln___

'v

\

- Some Camping Experiences

There were many difficulties in the way of carrying on a camping program
last summer. But somehow or other, camps went on just the same, and to
the everlasting credit of public and private groups all over the country,
the challenge was met. Here are just a few stories offered as evidence.

I.

A Co-operative Camp

By CONSTANCE CURRIE

hood House has carried on an experiment in

co—operative camping. The camp, known as
the St. Paul Co-operative Camp, is perhaps no
longer in the experimental stage; it has built up
traditions, established policies, gained sympathetic
and inhuential friends, and earned an enviable
reputation in camping associations and in the local
community.

FOR THE PAST live years the St. Paul Neighbor-

What Makes It Co-operative? The (to-operative
camp sponsorship consists of twelve group work
and case work agencies in St. Paul. Ten of them
are Community Chest agencies; the eleventh and
twelfth are the County Welfare Board and the
State Division of Social Welfare.

In 1939, the National Park Service set up an
advisory board to find a sponsoring organization
which would take over the operation of a group
camp on the upper St. Croix River, near Hinck—
ley, Minnesota. The camp, located 107 miles from
St. Paul, is in the St. Croix Recreation Area
which in 1943 was taken over by the State of
Minnesota. It had excellent facilities, a capacity
for ninety-six campers, and conformed to the
modern trend of decentralized camping.

Neighborhood House was represented on this
adviSory committee. Realizing that here was an
opportunity to acquire, for a nominal renting fee
of $576 per season. a camp site with buildings that
would accommodate 576
campers over six ten—day
periods, together with some
equipment, the House es-

tablished the St. Paul Co-
Operative Camp.

There are dehnite advan-
tages in the co-operative
setup. Although not one of

126

Constance Currie, Director. Neighbor-
hood Hou'se Association. St. PaulI answers
three questions in her discussion of the
St. Paul Co-operative Camp:

I. In what way is it a co-operative?
2. What is its internal organization?

3. What are its aims and purposes and how
well does the camp accomplish them?

the agencies alone could meet the expenditures
necessary for the camp, the twelve agencies to-
gether could. Furthermore, a very real advantage
lay in the fact that a portion of each agency’s staff
could be released to attend camp while their chil-
ren were in camp. Workers and children benefit
mutually from this arrangement. The workers can
observe their children twenty-four hours a day
over a ten-day period ; the children get inestimable
good out of being closely associated in the camp
atmosphere with the workers who have their in—
terest so closely at heart.

Internal Organization. The problems of agency
quotas, camp fees, dates, transportation. and
agency leadership are decided by the Co—operative
Camp Committee, which consists of one member
from each of the co-operating agencies. It was
felt, however, that responsibility for the camp
should be centralized in one agency, and Neigh-
borhood House was selected for this job. The task
involves making the budget, raising the money,
hiring general counselors, buying food and sup—
plies, and serving in a general supervisory capacity.

The camp budget is approximately $I 1,000; this
includes the leadership in kind. The money is
raised through campers’ fees, private donations,
and the city—wide “Fishermen’s Party” sponsored
by the local daily paper. This year the camp fees
are $8.50 for each camper, and the fee includes a
medical examination, transportation, food, and
lodging.

For four years the camp had three ten—day
periods for girls, and tliree for boys. In 1943, in
line with modern camping trends, co-educational
camping was instituted. It
presented many new and
challenging problems, but it
was felt by all the agencies
that “co—ed” camping was
highly successful, and that
it does have advantages over
a camp for boys alone or
girls alone.

RECREATION

 

SOME CAMPING EXPERIENCES 127

It is true, however, that when older boys and
girls are in a co-educational camp, skilled men
leaders are essential, and in 1943 it was not pos-
sible to obtain the number of men we felt were
essential. Furthermore, there were campers who
prefered being in an all-girl or all-boy camp.
Therefore one period was reserved for older girls
and one for older boys; the remaining four periods
were co—educational. The leadership was co-edu-
cational in all periods. In 1944 the same arrange"—
ment will be made.

Aims and Purposes. Perhaps the aims of most
camps are somewhat the same: health, acquisition
of new skills, experience in living and working
with others as well as playing with them, and par-
ticipation in some form of democratic govern-
ment or camper rule. In addition, the St. Paul
Co-operative Camp provides an opportunity for
its leaders to teach what the statesmen of the
world are trying to achieve: racial, religious, and
class co-operation and understanding.

The “Co—operative” is made up of a Catholic
agency, a Negro agency, a settlement house with
a large proportion of Jewish participants, and a
number of case work and family welfare agencies.

Because children at camp live so intensely, so
fully, and are so receptive to suggestion, we be-
lieve the Co-operative Camp can be the,_most dy—
namic educational process a boy or girl can experi-
ence. An excerpt taken from the Director’s report
of last season illustrates this point:

“It has been many years since I read Van Loon’s
book, Tolerance ; but if everywhere in America, Cath-

 

JUNE 1944

olics, Protestants, Jews, and Negroes each Sunday
night could gather together in a meeting such as the
staff and campers of St. John’s Camp (St. Paul Co-
Operative Camp) staged, bigotry and intolerance would
take a beating. '

“I shall never forget'one Sunday Vesper Service in
particular. A soft rain was playing a lazy, subdued
symphony on the roof as a group of eight colored girls
sang three Spirituals, as only they can sing them; a
Jewish girl read Joyce Kilmer’s ‘Trees’; a Catholic
camper and a Protestant camper alternated between a
responsive reading.

“And when the writer was called upon to conclude
the service, he offered an unplanned and unprepared
prayer. 'but it was the most sincere effort his lips have
ever attempted.”

\V e feel that the camp does accomplish its pur—
poses. Both campers and counselors feel honored
and proud to be associated with the camp and the
traditions for which it stands. a

. A Citizenship Camp

By JOHN ZUSSMAN
Direcior, Junior Optimist’Ci’rizenship Camp

FIFTY MEMBERS of Milwaukee’s Junior Optimist
Clubs camped for five days last August at
Hawthorne Glen where they went through a prac-
tical training in citizenship. They had their own
city government, elected their city officials, made
and enforced ordinances regulating the city, and
conducted their own elections. Members from their

Courtesy St. Paul C o-operative C amp

128 SOME CAMPING EXPERIENCES

group made up the police force and courts, and
administered justice.

Leadership at the camp consisted of a camp
director, the only paid worker, a dean of coun-
selors, legal advisors and ward counselors, all vol-
unteers from the Boys’ Work Committee of the
Optimist Club. The dean of counselors had the
responsibility of administering the program of in—
struction and training in citizenship and selecting
speakers. The legal'-counselors were attorneys of
the Optimist Club, each of whom was appointed
to lecture on the duties and functions of the vari—
ous city officials. The ward counselors were as—
signed to each ward and had responsibility for
guiding the activities of their respective groups.

In planning the camp, invitations were sent to
members of twenty—eight Junior Optimist Clubs,
and the registration was limited to eighty boys.
There was no charge or fee at the camp for the
boys who spent each day there from 10:00 A. M.
to 7:30 P. M. The boys
brought their own food for
two meals and prepared it
over the outdoor campfires,
and at 7 :30 they went home
for the night.

As each boy registered on
the first morning, he was
assigned to one of the fif-
teen wards organized for
the camp. At the opening
assembly instructions were given regarding rules,
policies and regulations, and the boys received in-
formation on the conduct of a caucus and other
campaign information. Then a special school of
instruction for candidates for office was conducted
by the legal counselors.» The boys had the option
of attending the group in which fhey were inter—
ested, such as mayor, treasurer, city clerk, alder—
man or municipal judge. After learning at this
session about the duties and functions of each of-
fice, the boys had a much better idea about the
office which they wanted to seek.

At Monday afternoon’s session the boys held a
caucus to nominate their candidates for office. The
boys saw to it that the procedure was parliament-
ary and “aboveboard.” When the entire slate had
been' nominated, not one bit of real political flavor
was lost as the boys prepared campaign speeches,
posters, and went about the business of getting
votes.

On the second morning the general assembly
was turned over to campaign and election speeches,

The program of citizenship training at
Milwaukee's Junior Optimist Camp is based
on the following conviction: "A man is a
good citizen only when he understands his
government; when he participates in its
problems; when he recognizes his duties
and responsibilities toward itI shares in
its burdens. protects its good nameI and
contributes to the richness of its life."

and each candidate had his chance. The guest
speaker before the actual voting began was the
secretary of the Milwaukee Election Commission
who gave the boys simple instruction in voting
procedure. Official voting stalls were set up and
the election commission chosen by the boys took
charge of the voting.

The highlight of the election campaign and of
the camp came with the oath of office ceremony,
fOr which all the city officials headed by Mayor
John Bohn were on hand. In the procession to
the platform Mayor Bohn escorted the boys’
mayor; the city treasurer accompanied the boy
treasurer, and so on. Milwaukee’s city clerk ad-
ministered the oath of office to each boy elected.

On Wednesday afternoon the first common
council meeting was held with the mayor in the
chair. City officials were on hand to help the boys
conduct the meeting and show them the procedure
for introducing resolutions and ordinances. One
ordinance which was passed
stated that each citizen
should be taxed one cent a
day, and this was paid to
the city treasurer during his
stated office hours.

But even a busy official
must have some play, so in
between the campaign meet-
ings and court sessions there
were baseball, football, vol-
ley ball, and dodge ball games. Special instruction
was given on campfire cooking and the prepara-
tion of food. Nature lore played an.important .part
in the program, and expert nature specialists were
brought in to instruct the boys.

The actual cost of conducting the camp was low.
There was no expense for the site which was one
of the playground parks of the city'. Expenditures
were about $65 exclusive of street car transporta-
tion. This included leadership, clerical help, office
supplies and materials, and poStage.

A Home Vacation Camp“

IN ADDITION to its day camp at Camp Witawen-
tin, the Pittsfield, Massachusetts, Girls’ League
Association last summer maintained a home vaca-
tion camp conducted by volunteers. It was run on
a two weeks’ basis for a total of 192 camper weeks,
and the camp fee was nominal. The League yard
was transformed into camper units with fireplaces

RECREATION

SOME CAMPING EXPERIENCES 129

and lashed tables.
Hikes to the city
playgrounds includ—
ingnature trips,cook- ,
outs, marshmallow
roasts, craft classes,
and all activities to
be found at any good
camp were carried out
in and around the
League building.
Twice a week the home vacation-
ers went out to Camp Witawentin
where they had their own camp
site, swimming period, and program. At the, end
of the day they met the day campers for flag low-
ering and a sing period. The home vacationers
won the song contest and the unit competition

program, and were responsible for the miniature

golf course at the County Fair which closed the
\Vitawentin season.

Summer Camps on the
Pacific Coast

INFORMATION GATHERED from sixty organized
summer camps on the Pacific Coast showed
that many more children were taken care of last
summer than in previous years. Many of them
came from homes where both parents were en-
gaged in war industry. Camps made a great con-
tribution in providing a feeling of security for
these children.

Greater emphasis was placed on building up the
health of the campers and making them more
physically fit to withstand the strains of war—
time. The mental health of the children was pre-
served by getting them away from war tensions,
crowded living conditions and abnormal home con-
ditions, especially in the critical war areas. ‘

Many of the camps reported that their children
gained greater experience in learning the ways of
democracy by participating
in small group activities,
where they had the experi-
ence of c00perating and
adjusting.

A number of the organi-
zations operated interracial
camps, which included rep-
resentatives ofdifferent

JUNE 1944

 

At camp—far away from all the
strains and tensions of wartime

Louis H. Blumenthal. Chairman of the
Research Committee of the Pacific Camp-
ing AssociationI reported the findings of
a study on "How Camping Met the Chal-
lenge in I943" before the annual meeting

‘ of the Association held early in Match.

All who believe that camping can go on
in spite of wartime difficulties will be en-
couraged by this report from the Coast.

races. Children here
had the opportunity
of learning about the
members of other
groups. .

Many of the camps
engaged in the oper-
ation of Farm Labor
Camps to assist in
the gathering of the
crops. This provided
a valuable work experience which
was~ considered of inestimable
value.

Other war services rendered by camps included
the operation of victory gardens, craft work for‘
the American Red Cross, training in forest conser-
vation and training as fighting crews in the event
of forest fires.

The outlook for 1944, according to camp di—
rectors, indicated that there would be an increased
enrollment of children, but that there would be
more difficulty in securing staff personnel. They
expect to recruit these from among discharged
veterans, school teachers and parents—From the
Pacific Camping Association.

Gedge Harmon

c

“The summer camp is an American institution.
It is a constructive force at work on children. Most
camps by necessity have plenty of sunshine, for-
ests and fields. Some camps provide interesting
nature experiences; others repeat city experiences.
Some camps are devoted to competitions and selfish
purposes; some are directing their energies
toward satisfying activities and exploratory think-
ing. Some camps have resourceful outdoor lead-
ers; some specialize in hero-athletics. Some camps
cultivate leisure-time talents; some plan joint
community projects such as building and equip-
ping a trailside museum. Others are regimented
in teams for points and medals. Any investment
for yOur child is worthy of critical analysis and '
intelligent judgment.

“A camp is a place for enjoyable outdoor living.
When the program is or—
ganized on a small group
plan, where there is co-
operative freedom for every
individual in providing food,
shelter, recreation, work
and culture, we find de-
mocracy at its best.” ——

l’Villiam G. Vinal.

A Community Play Day

CLIMAXING the 1943 summer

season, the Brattleboro,

Vermont, Recreation Department deter-
mined to offer a day of fun and recreation which
would attract the interest and participation of the
entire community—a program which would con-
tribute to civic pride and morale as well.

To provide an opportunity for civic-minded or-
ganizations and individuals to cooperate in a
worth—while community enterprise and also to
solicit indirectly some badly needed volunteer lead-
,ership, invitations for an organization meeting
were issued to approximately twenty community
groups to send representatives to draw up plans
for the event. Every group approached sent a
representative. The delegates decided against a
formal organization and placed authority for the
unification of the whole program
in the Director of Recreation,
making him chairman of future
meetings. '

A list of activities
which might be spon-
sored was presented to
the group for considera—
tion. Everyone was
urged to suggest a suit—
able activity which could
be easily adapted to the
program. The Ameri—
can Legion representa-
tives immediately sug—
gested an airplane spot-
ting contest for young-
sters—an activity not on
the suggested list—wand
in no time at all it was
incorporated in the final
program. The delegates
reported back to their
organizations with the
understanding that the
chairman would assist
in explaining activities
wherever necessary.

The second meeting
of the organization rep—-
resentatives found the
original group reduced

' .3

\L

,xug, -'.-
nah {I

- "(a _ .
I‘rSPN-f a...

 
 

130

By FRANCIS T. LEAHY

There are many advantages in a
community play day. One is that
everybody can have a part in it.

 

Courtesy Lancaster, Pa., Recreation Association

to twelve members. This had
been anticipated, however, and
detailed planning of the program progressed with
definite assignments and commitments being made.
Final arrangements regarding time and place of
various activities were left to the discretion of
the chairman.

The Office of Civilian Defense in the community
loaned the services of its publicity agent to handle
newspaper releases. The local newspaper cooper—
ated wholeheartedly in the promotion of the pro-
gram and, for several days preceding the date,
featured the Play Day with front page accounts of
the planned activities. The Police Department and
the Auxiliary Police of the OCD provided the
necessary supervision.

Committees of the participating organizations
carried out the details and ar-
rangements for the activity each
sponsored. The Director of Rec—
reation was kept in—
formed on details
through daily contact
with the chairmen of
the different committees.
The program, as finally
drawn up, provided
something for everyone
to do during the day
and evening, and dis~
tributed the activities
geographically to widely"
separated districts of the
town.

The Chamber of Com—
merce furnished a horse
drawn barge to accom-
modate youngsters parr
ticipating in the swim~
ming carnival held at
the Community Bath-
ing Beach at the edge
of town.

It was estimated that
over 1,600 people took
part in the day’s fun.

. The Brattleboro Daily
Reformer neatly

(Continued on page 154)

RECREATION

 

Courtesy Perry-Mansfield Camps

youth will naturally turn to the out-of—doors
and sports, outings, hiking, and camping
will for a time prove more alluring than their in-
door centers.
\Vhat are some of these outdoor activities which
can be so enjoyable to our teen-agers during the
spring, summer, and fall?

Now THAT SUMMER is here, the interest of

Outings
Picnics and Cookouts. There are usually places
in parks, beaches, or near-by woods that provide
facilities for small group picnics and cookouts. For

cold weather there are sometimes shelters and park
lodges with large fireplaces that make possible

winter activities. Clam bakes, corn roasts, weiner
roasts, steak roasts, and pancake breakfasts include
but a few of the possibilities. Evening cookouts are
often followed by campfire programs with informal
singing, games, stunts, and stories. Committees

of young people should be appointed to care for

JUNE 1944

Youth
Out of Doors

There have been many articles in the
past year's issues of RECREATION re-
garding Youth Centers. The emphasis
on these centersI which has been of

so much interest to our young people
and their adult friendsl will notI we
feel sure. detract in any way from
the outdoor activities which have
always been so fundamental a part
of a recreation program for youth.

securing food, selecting sites, obtain-
ing permits, and planning entertain-
ment. Adults will generally be called
on to assist in transportation. buying
food, and similar matters.

Hiking, If war clouds have a silver
lining, the return to walking is un-
questionably that lining! So join your
community’s hiking club or if there is
none, get some of your friends to-
gether and start one. You’ll find “Ramblers” or
some similar name more attractive than “Hiking
Club.” Many young people are tired from work-
ing long hours and won’t reSpond readily to an
invitation to “hike,” which so often connotes hot,
dusty miles, sunburnt faces, and blistered feet.
Vary the program with social gatherings, parties,
and refreshments. Outdoor cooking. never loses
its charm.

Bicycle Clubs. Some people want to do their
hiking-on bicycles! Bicycle clubs have a well-
deserved popularity, especially when embellished
with early breakfasts out of doors, swims, moon-
light rides, or treasure hunts. Try a “flip-a—penny
ride.” At every intersection if it’s heads we go left ;
tails we go right until we are lost! "

If possible, when winter comes swing your bi-
cycle, rambler and other clubs into winter sports.
In many southern cities roller skating to music in
the evening under red, green, blue, and yellow

. lights on hard surface tennis courts is the big

N ovember-to-March teen age outdoor activity. In

131

132 YOUTH OUT OF DOORS

cities further north parties, dances, badminton and
other indoor activities give way to snow and ice
sports when winter really comes.

Explore Your Community. Whether on foot or
bicycle, or by bus or trolley, explore your city and
learn to know it. These trips can be very popular,
especially if each exploration ends in a soda shop,
a youth center, or a private home. When interest
wanes in the usual trips or if the young people are
working daytime, try nighttime trips to news-
papers, radio stations, or to airports at times when
planes are due.

Many young people will be interested in visit-
ing museums and galleries, zoos,' wildlife sanctu-
aries, and botanical gardens. State and national
parks, as well as local parks and preservation
areas, often have trailside museums and nature
trails which may serve as added attractions to pic-
nic and excursion groups to these areas.

Special interest ,trips may be organized, or
science, photography, or art clubs already formed
may go as a body. Many communities have outing
clubs of various kinds, Audubon bird clubs, and
nature clubs in which young people will find a
ready welcome if they wish to participate in the
activities offered.

Camping. The teen years are the years to ex-
plore and adventure. Most young people in their
late teens have passed beyond the stage of the day
camp and the ordinary organized camp activities.
They are, however, tremendously interested in
primitive camping in small groups where they may
feel a sense of self-sufficiency in carrying out their
own ideas.

Week-end camping is often possible by hiking to
woodland areas near cities, or by bicycling or rid-
ing on trains to more distant spots. Such activities
involve planning for adequate clothing, food, and
shelter and ,a knowledge of woodcraft skills Suf-
ficient to provide reasonable comfort and safety in
camp.

More extended primitive camping excursions
involve reaching a wilderness area and carrying
along all the food or equipment required. Back-
packing, one of the methods of primitive camping,
involves careful selection of concentrated food and
lightweight camp equipment. Other methods are
canoeing and packing with horses or burros. Both
these methods require special skill—-~0ne in han-

dling canoes, the other in packing and caring for
the animals.

Primitive camping gives the thrill of venturing .

into the wilderness and living under conditions
where resourcefulness and camping skills become
paramount. Young people should not venture on
such trips without experienced adult leadership
unless they have proved their ability to care for
themselves under primitive conditions.

Sports

In a program of sports for youth the importance
of fun at all times is a prime consideration. Many
young people have never learned the skills of
sports; others are very skilled. But whatever the
degree of skill, it takes sociability before, during,
and after the games, with occasional picnics, visit—
ing, informal contests, refreshments late at night,
and other activities to bind together dub and ex—
pert, newcomer and old-timer, in a way the sport
alone cannot do.

Volley Ball. Mixed group volley ball is probably
one of the easiest sports to organize—if you have
a leader who is enthusiastic. Place the players so
that girls and boys serve alternately, and make the
rule that in volleying the ball must be touched by
a girl before it goes back over the nht. In this way
the boys do not do all playing, as they would other-
wise. Have benches for spectators and for resting
—right at the volley ball court, and encourage shy
ones first to watch, then to be linesmen, scorers,
perhaps referees, and when someone has to leave,
urge them to fill in, “just for a few minutes.” Soon
they’ll be playing all the time, and liking it.

Lead-ups to Softball. Softball for mixed groups
is not advisable, for the boys are too strong and
skillful, and most girls are not expert players and
may get hurt. However, lead-up games, on a four-
base diamond without a bat and with an inflated
ball such as hand baseball, soccer baseball, punch
ball, follow ball, beat ball or hit pin baseball are
excellent for mixed teams, especially on play-
grounds or at picnics or beaches with girls in
sports clothes. Some times for a novelty, especially
for spectators at a picnic or family fun night,
mixed teams may play real softball with the rule
that boys must bat and pitch and throw left—handed
(if they are normally right-handed). This makes
an interesting fun game. Never permit girls’ teams
to compete against boys’ teams in any sport.

Golf and Archery. Golf and archery are excel-
lent teen age sports if loan equipment and good
instruction can be provided. They may begin as
an early Spring activity indoors, with a practice
driving net and class instruction for golf, and with

RECREATION

YOUTH OUT OF DOORS 133

an indoor range and tackle-making in the craft
shop for archery. Minimize competition to avoid
discouragement at first, arrange informal play, or
use handicaps or ladder tournaments and stress
sociability even for nonplayers who may want to
“tag along,” or catch their interest by giving them
jobs, scoring, reporting, etc. A clock golf course
or a miniature golf course around the edge of a
large playground adds to the neighborhood fun
but won’t meet the need for a long period. Watch
out for danger in golf driving and in archery!
Teen age boys and girls are not always thought—
ful. Don’t forget socializing afterwards—it’s more
important than the instruction!

Many other sports might be mentioned. There
are always tennis, one of the best outdoor sports,
and horseback riding, if horses are available and
prices reasonable.

Social Recreation

.An experienced leader has suggested that at
least one evening a week a “Just-for~Fun Night”
should be set aside for teen age groups on every
playground in the country. Each night there should
be something special planned and arranged by the
young people themselves,
from the inevitable weiner

 

lUNE 1944

When cooking out of doors loses its charm for
our young people. then we may_star’r worrying!

roast to watermelon feasts, corn roasts, amateur
nights, radio rambles, and mock broadcasts to
celebrity night when motion picture stars are imi-
tated. For the place the playground may be used
—perhaps the tennis court area—or a near-by
street may be blocked off.

Parking Lot Canteen. If more elaborate facilities
cannot be developed, why not try the parking lot
canteen idea? As the first step, secure the co-
operation of a store with an adjacent parking lot
used only occasionally in the evening. Camouflage
unsightly sites with trellises and enclose the area
with a low trellis fence. Teen-agers will enjoy
doing the building and painting, and the fence can
be made movable if triangular wooden supports
are constructed for each section of the trellis.

The young people can have a hand in painting
tables and folding chairs in bright colors. These
should be stored under canvas when not in use, or
in a shack constructed for the purpose. There
should be a “postage stamp” dance Hoor around
which the young people may place the tables and
chairs. Women’s organizations may well assume
responsibility for preparing the food. A commit—
tee of young people may be placed in charge of
buying new records and
running the player, or a

134 YOUTH OUT OF DOORS

waterproof house may be built for a juke box
which provides music.

Of course the canteen should be brightly lighted
without, however, too many colored bulbs, and
there should be a place provided to plug in the
public address system. It is unnecessary to sug-
gest that a snack bar is essential! After the party
the committee members could make a game of see-
ing how quickly tables and chairs can be stored
away, the trash containers taken away, and the
place left shipshape for use as a parking lot next
morning.

This same kind of planning might well be kept
in mind in equipping Spaces around community
buildings. These will be much more attractive to
young people if in one corner of the space about
them there should be a stage with a waterproof
piano and juke box house, a sounding board, and
a frame with a movie screen. They’ll also want a
snack bar, and tables and chairs as well.

Service Activities

Teen age activities can be fun and at the same
time beneficial to others, if the leader uses the
youth as volunteers part of the time, and then
gives them opportunities for their own fun and
also arranges special trips, favors, or privileges or

parties for them at the completion of a period of
service.

Day Camp. For example, very few teen age
youth will attend a day camp as campers, but if
the program is coeducational and the teen-agers
are trained as junior councilors to instruct in their
particular sport or hobby, or assist adult coun-
cilors in the morning, and then are given freedom
for their own sports and swimming in the after-

noon, they get the joy of service and their own fun
as well.

Street Play. Street play is not ordinarily recom—
mended, but in crowded cities having no play-
grounds in some areas, recreation departments or
other groups have developed Junior Councils to
supervise play on a blocked-off street at certain
hours. The young people put out barriers, set out
portable volley ball posts and nets, ring tennis,
paddle tennis, paddle badminton, tether ball, shuf—
Heboard and other adult play equipment at one end
of the street, and hopscotch and children’s games
at the other. The Senior Council has previously
selected a suitable street, secured permission to
block it off, has had the city traffic department’s
men paint all needed lines on it, and gives super-

vision to the Junior Council, seeing that barriers
are put out and taken in promptly and that equip-
ment is not neglected or abused. Frequently Junior
and Senior Councils together have cooperated on a
neighborhood party, dance or carnival to raise
money for this equipment (much of it homemade)
which is stored near—by in someone’s garage or
basement when not in use.

Playground Leaders' Club. Playground Junior
Councils and Leaders’ Clubs also give much ser-
vice and have fun, too, under wise leaders. Be—
sides assisting'with all kinds of activities for
younger children, and especially with children’s
parties and special events, they are often the main—
stay of the director for family fun nights, stunt
nights, musical jamborees, mother and daughter or
father and son nights, barber shop quartettes and
old-fashioned singing school, community sings,
carnivals, and other publicity, money raising or
community spirit affairs. Not only do the young
people serve as ushers, monitors and guards, but
they often forget their shyness and take great

delight in working up stunts and special numbers
to entertain others.

Entertainers Club. “W hen a number of talented
teen—agers are found who are interested in helping
others to have a good time, a wise leader organizes
an Entertainers Club. Usually a prospective mem—
ber is put on probation for five performances, and
during this time the act is censored, revised, im-
proved and polished with the aid of the drama
leader or professional actors who serve as volun-
teers. Then, to maintain membership, the player
must give ten performances in a certain number of
months. Thus suitable material is developed for
family fun nights, for floor shows, and perform-
ances in institutions, hospitals, camps and other
playgrounds, or for city-wide celebrations and
holidays. Most important of all, the Entertainers
Club, under a capable, understanding leader, is an
excellent means of developing higher standards for
the youth who are “show-offs,” more confidence
and stage presence for those who have real talent,
and unexpected abilities and ~~improved personali-
ties in our shy and inhibited youngsters.

Traveling Theater. Another idea which an able
drama leader may develop is the traveling theater
troupe. With an old moving van remodeled into
a stage, two dressing tents, a couple hundred feet
of wire for footlights, spotlight and movie machine,
an accordion player or a tiny piano, some very
interesting variety shows, sketches, skits, and real

(Confirmed on page 160)

RECREATION

 

A Year-Round Nature Program

of the few cities to have a

year—round nature pro-
gram sponsored by the Recre—
ation Department. Since June “1943, over 4,000
children took part in the program which included
summer playground season -field trips, exhibits,
and nature crafts. Fall activities were conducted
in connection with the public schools, and were so
arranged as to supplement the science courses and
make nature realistic and thrilling for the growing
child. About fifty per cent of the children have
made collections of moths, butterflies, abandoned
bird nests (collected in winter), insects, leaves.
and various types of wood. At several schools
cabinets have been made to store these collections,
thus enriching the science
courses.

The protection of birds,
animals and reptiles, and
the conservation of trees and
wildflowers are among the
objectives of Danville’s pro—
gram. Mr. Westbrook, who
is in charge of the program,

DANVlLLE, VIRGINIA, is one

JUNE 1944

By ELLEN EASTERLY Wooo

Director of Recreation
Danville. Virginia

At the age of eight. "Johnny" Westbrook
started on his career as a naturalist when a
local citizen showed him a butterfly he had
caught. Today Mr. Westbrook has a collec-
tion of butterflies from all over the world.
Under the auspices of the Recreation De-
partment he is inspiring the children of Dan-
ville with his own love of nature and is im-
parting to them his knowledge of nature lore.

gives instruction in the art of
collecting specimens of various
kinds, and because of his deep
personal interest young and
old are finding nature lore a fascinating subject.

To climax the summer and fall program, a Bird
Feeding Festival was staged on December 22nd at
iallou Park. Bird feeding stations, made by chil-
dren under the auspices of the Recreation Depart-
ment and placed in the park, were on exhibition at
the festival. The children brought suet, chick
scratch, millet seed, and bread crumbs to feed the
birds at Christmas time, following the tradition of
Scandinavian countries where deep snow prevails.

A birdhouse contest has been planned for the
beginning of the bird season in the early part of
March. Mr. Westbrook be-
lieves that if a boy is taught
to feed a bird or build a
home for one he will de-
velop a personal interest in
protecting that bird as he
would a pet rabbit, kitten,
or dog. i

Nature study in the

135

136 A YEAR-ROUND NATURE PROGRAM

Danville program follows the seasons. During the
summer of 1943 butterflies, moths, wildflowers,
and birds captured the interest of the students.
\Vhen fall came a marked interest was noted in
collecting cocoons and making homes for them.
At first feeding the larvae was a problem until
the students learned from actual experience that
one caterpillar feeds on sweet gum while another
prefers the spicebush. Then a natural interest
developed in identifying various trees by color,
smell, formation, and other means. From the ex-
perience of learning to feed caterpillars several
students branched off into making collections of
various types of wood by cutting small sticks in
half, sandpapering and labeling them.

During January and February most of the nature
work is done in the field house located in the deep
wooded section of Danville’s Ballou Park with its
95 acres. This field house, maintained by the
Recreation Department, is used as a workshop for
nature activities. One room is filled with work—
benches and stools where the hikers may mount
their! specimens, build birdhouses, butterfly nets,
collecting boxes, feeding stations, cocoon cages,
and other equipment. The other room is filled with
shelves where collections are kept with the names
of the collectors.

Adults are oining enthusiastically in the nature
program, and Sunday afternoon hikes, bird walks,
and exhibits have won their interest. During the
year civic clubs, churches, schools, and garden
clubs have invited Mr. Westbrook to bring ex-
hibits and specimens to show in connection with
talks on wildlife in the vicinity of Danville. '

Two of the local newspapers print articles each
week on nature lore. “Nature Notes On Danville,”
a weekly feature in the Sunday Register, is con—
cerned with native birds, and “Beyond the Beaten
Path,” a feature of the Commercial Appeal, de—
scribes seasonal phenomena in the nature world.

Downtown merchants have given a helping hand
to encourage interest in nature. Several exhibits
of specimens 'were shown during the summer and
a much larger exhibit has been planned for March
Ist. Bird clubs and junior and senior naturalist
organizations will be formed in the immediate
future. In this way a very popular part of the
recreation program in Danville will be expanded.

Danville plans to go forward with its nature
program. Its dream envisions day camps and over-
night camps in the park, and eventually a rustic
nature field museum to house the collections.

Museum on Wheels

“I guess I’ll go swimming now with the snakes
and turtles.” That’s the way ten year old Frank
Evans of the Cranford Playground put it before
starting out on one of the many nature collecting
trips sponsored last summer by the playground
system of the Union County, New Jersey, Park
Commission.

This new-found interest in nature recreation
among the playground children all came out of the
nature “museum on wheels” which visited the
seventeen playgrounds in Union County once every
week. Insects, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds,
and mammals Fof the area were only a part of the
excellent collection made by Mrs. Mildred Ruli-
son, supervisor of the county nature program, who
was in charge of the traveling museum.

Most of the children were deeply interested in
the nature program and they were always ready
when the museum on wheels drove up to the play
ground. The display of animal and plant life was
supplemented by a talk on nature by Mrs. Rulison,
who always included a discussion on the conser-
vation of nature and the beauty of nature around
us. Last summer the t0pics included, “Our Furry
Neighbors,” “Flying Feathers,” “Six Legged Fly-
ers,” “Snakes, Frogs, and Toads,” “Sun, Moon,
and Stars,” “Rocks and Minerals,” “Wood

Magic,” “Wild Flowers,” “Wild Food Plants”
and “Magic Box.” '

As soon as the children learned more about
nature, many groups were organized to go on col—
lecting trips both~in field and stream. The avail-
ability of a county park trailside museum and the
nature trail which is located in the popular Watch-
ung Reservation of Union County aided greatly in
carrying out the program.

From this most successful museum on wheels
experiment which stimulated interest in nature
activities, the Park Commission feels that perhaps
more “around the circuit” affairs—visits by out—
standing sports figures, musicians, magicians—-
would also have much success on New Jersey
playgrounds this summer.——Ge0rge T. Cron.

 

 

NOTE: It will be of interest to nature leaders and to
all interested in nature recreation in all its forms to
know that the National Recreation Association will soon
have available for distribution a booklet containing sug-
gestions of things which convalescents, invalids, and bed-
ridden may do to keep in touch with the world of nature.
Further announcement will be made as soon as the date
of publication has been made definite.

RECREATION

HE MOST delightful way
I to introduce pantomime

is by the game method.
\Ve suggest a few here but
the teacher may devise her
own. The games supply
variation for the recreation
l period, or material for rai’ny
lday activity, as well as a
means of development of
body freedom and poise.
The flI’St game is called
“Questions without Words.”
Someone is named “it.” He
is to ask a question of one
or all in the group, by what-

Pantomime is Easy

By GRACE MARIE STANISTREET
Adelphi Children's Theatre Arts Center
Adelphi College

In RECREATION for May. Miss Stanistreet
discussed pantomime as a means of present-
ing children's plays with ease and effective-
ness. She pointed out that pantomime is
a natural means of expression for children.
but to obtain the best results some direc-
tion is necessary. |n,this issue she presents
methods of developing both children's and
teachers' ability in this realm.

"We will not differentiate materials." she
says. "because pantomime is a universal
language, and the teacher will recognize the
exercises not suited to her age groups."

SCENE III—(three huge-rs up):

“Nearest” may be indicated
by placing objects in relation
to each other, close—then at
a distance.

SCENE IV—(four fingers up):
“This place” is indicated by
tracing outline or initials—or
by an attitude indicative of
the place.

Another game, called
“Freezing,” imagines situa—
tions in which an individual
is caught and “frozen.” One
person, the leader, imagines
that “you” is caught steal-
ing jam from the pantry
shelf. “You” has a minute

ever means he chooses, but
without words. The group
as well is not allowed to
talk to him or to any other member. Whatever is
said must be said by body means only. In order to
get the game started the teacher must be ready to
supply a suitable ,question whispered to the one
who is “it.” We list a few here:

\Vhere is. the church nearest to this place?

What is 9 x 7?

Who comes at Christmas time?

\Vhat do you like the best in school?

In what country do they ride camels?

Who was the first president of the United States?

What does a boy hate to do?

The question may be asked in any way. If a
mistake is made by questioner or answerer, a ges-
ture of rubbing out is made. To express lack of un-
derstanding, shrug the shoulders, upturn the palms,

raise the eyebrows, shake the head. The charade - '

methods may be used, that is, each word may be
acted in syllables, each word acted, or the whole
idea expressed. When the sentence is done in
parts, as in the example given, the questioner holds
up correct number of fingers to indicate parts. The

first question on the list might be asked in this
manner:
SCENE I—(cme finger up): To express “where” point

north, east, south and west, questioning look, upturn
palms.

SCENE II——( two fingers up): “Church” can be traced
with the finger on the floor or wall, or the questioner
may kneel with hands in attitude of prayer. '

lUNE 1944

to think, and when the
leader says “Freeze,” he ex-
presses the feeling and action, and holds until the
leader says “Melt.” Here again the director must

be ready with situations to suggest. We list a few:
Imagine you are a crane standing on the edge of a
lake.

You are Cinderella sitting by the fire ‘just after her
step-sisters have gone to the ball. .
You are Mary Jane having rice pudding for dinner
.and you hate rice pudding.
c, C
You see a snake close by your foot.
You are looking at a giraffe for the first time.

Many more can be devised from literature and
from real life experiences.

Another game is called “Be Sensible.” The
group forms a circle so. that all may see and be
seen. Then each member, in turn, pretends to
touch something. The group guesses what kind of
thing is touched, and after all have done it the
other senses are expressed in the same way. Sug-

gestions for these follow: \

T OUCH—Stroking cat, velvet, fiypa'per, ice, stove

TASTE—Medicine, ice cream

HEARING—Mice in the wall, thunder, knockipg, scream,
musm ,

SEEING—Parade, acrobats, baby, airplane, penny on
ground, pup-pet show

SMELLING-HFIOWEI'S, burning rubber, perfume, escap-
ing gas, burning leaves '

Still another game is called “Lights, Camera,
Shoot.” For this the group may be divided into
teams. Each group is given a familiar story and

137

158

told to illtlstrate it in pictures-41m crayon or paint
pictures, but living pictures, with themselves as
the people of the story and perhaps costumes and
props if they are-available. They may be told to
do a jacket for the book or story, or tell the story
in a given number of pictures.

In preparation for this the groups should be
shown some illustrated books or stories and their
suitability and effectiveness discussed. This type
of exercise may be developed into an assembly
program, with the story told in front of the cur»
tain, and the curtain drawn at the right moment to
show the picture. The storyteller is quiet while
the curtain is open, and if a piano is available
suitable music may accompany the tableau.

“Nosebag I )ramatics,” although not limited to
pantomime, is fun as a surprise stunt. The leader
or committee prepares in advance a number of
paper bags filled with heterogeneous pieces of
costume or props. For example, one may contain
an alarm clock, a piece of string, a pair of spectacle
rims, a bandana handkerchief, a tin cup. These
are given to members of the group who are told
they must put them on——and the paper bag as
well— in such a way that they represent a story
character or one from life, and act accordingly.
There is little need for direction in this. The grab
bag interest and the articles
themselves are sufficiently

Pantomime Study at the Adelphi
Children's Theatre Arts

PANTOMIME IS EASY

stimulating to the children’s imaginations to pro-
duce some clever stunts and impersonations.

“What Am I Doing?” is obviously a game of
action. The individual goes through the motions
of washing, of drying dishes, of putting on a coat,
of any of the automatic operations which are re-
peated daily. Only tables and chairs may be used
for props. The object of the game is not only to
make quite clear what the operation is but also the
kinds, textures, the weights, the sizes, and other
qualities of objects handled or suggested.

It is an easy step from this to “W' hat Am I
Thinking?” but this game proves that pantomime
is an art. Again situations are imagined. For
instance, a small boy at dancing school tries to
avoid the teacher’s eye. He is thinking. as he
moves in his chair to make himself as small as.
possible, “Aw gee, I hate this place. \Nhy do I
have to come here every Saturday, my only holi-
day? I could have so much fun fishing or playing
ball with Jim, or swimming or—Aw gee, she sees
me—duck—-here she is—well I suppose I have to
get up—I don’t want to but I will.” The children
may suggest situations to each other or each one
may make his own scene.

After this, “Pantomime Plays for One” are easy.
These can be developed by the whole group or by

the individual. One group origi-i

(Continued on page 156)
Center

 

RECREATION

   

I'LY 28—the last Friday in July—will be
Joseph Lee Day for 1944. This year we hope
that in addition to his tremendous contribu-
tions to the play life of our country as the father
of the playground movement, programs in his
honor will include his contribution to the morale
and well-being of our uniformed forces in the First
\Vorld \Var through the War Camp Community
Service. For this he was awarded The Dis-
tinguished Service Medal. We hope also that pro-
grams this year will include as many adults as
possible, not only as audience but also as partici-
pators in these programs. "
The following are suggestions for a community-
wide celebration in honor of Joseph Lee:

2—-

In Advance

1. Ask for an official Proclamation from the
Mayor, authorizing a special celebration in all
parks and playgrounds in
honor of Joseph Lee.

‘ Joseph Lee Day

Julyl28, 1944

In June I9I9. Joseph Lee was awarded
the Distinguished Service Medal by
General Clarence R. Edwards for his

work for servicemen in World War I

broadcasts. (See list of material available
if you do not want to write your own.)

4. Ask the local ministers to mention
Joseph Lee and his work in their sermons.

5. Plan window displays and exhibits
for downtown stores, offices or banks. Use
the Mayor’s Proclamation, Joseph Lee’s
photograph, and statements or exhibits
from your own department.

6. If you are acquiring a new play
area, why not name and dedicate it on
Joseph Lee Day?

Program Suggestions for July 28

I_. A block dance

2. A costume picnic

3. A central play day

4.

A water carnival

5. A story picnic

6. Community picnic and field day

7. A patriotic playground pageant
8. A folk dance festival

9.

IO.

II.

Visitors’ Day for all playgrounds arid recre-
ation buildings L

Special recognition of all volunteer or junior
play leaders

Bulletin board display of recreation in your
city—then and now.

12. A model of the first play area in your city

13. A pictorial map of all recreation areas in

your city. (Items I 1, 12,
and 13 could be used

2. Arrange for editorials
in all the newspapers, not
only about Joseph Lee but
about the progress and pro-
gram of your own recreation
department.

3. Arrange local radio

JUNE 1944

We are greatly indebted to the Recrea-
tion Commission of Long Beach. California,
for supplying the cuts reproduced on the
two following pages. These were publishedI
along with many other attractive pictures
of the 'recreation activities promoted by
the Commission, in its most recent Annual
Report. issued under the title, I'Recrea-
tion—Always Essential; Vital in Wartime."

effectively for the win-
dow display.) _

14. The playing of Joseph
Lee’s favorite games in
costumes of 1870 and
1920

15. A fashion show of sports

139

 

costumes in 1910, or earlier in
contrast with those of today. (Base- ‘ Additional int
ball, swimming, tennis, and motor- celebral'f’!‘ of .JC
ing will be especially good ) her Of c'l'es w'."

. . ' @ctober I943 IS!

16. A dramatlzation, by the boys, of we shall app
of the first basketball game. (See coumxs of +he 01
list of material available.) I944'can be sen.

17. A midsummer musical, featuring <35 POSSlble afte
old and new songs, preceded or "oi make one Of

.followed by Speeches or talks by for preparing a 5
local leaders

Program Material AVailable for Joseph Lee Day

(NOTE: Please do not order any that you will
not actually need or use. Our stock is limited, and
paper is scarce.)

1. Reproductions 0t: two photographs of Joseph
Lee. Free.

. Godfather of Play. Reprint from Reader’s
Digest. Free. '

3. The Ballad of Joseph Lee (M118). A pag-

eant with a speaker and chorus. Could also
be used for radio. Free.

4. Children Need a Place to Play (MB. 1235).
Playground pageant. Free.

[0

5. The Pursuit of Joy—a play pageant. Free.

6. National Joseph Lee Day—7a spiral—bound
booklet issued in 1937, with biographical
sketch, favorite sayings, incidents in his life,
and favorite games and sports. Free.

. A Few of Joseph Lee’s Favorite Games
(M.B. 1236). Free.

8. Joseph Lee Day—July 30, 1943—as cele-

brated in San Francisco (M.B. 1353). Free.

\I

9. Radio script regarding the life of Joseph Lee
(MB. 1107). Can be used as a play. Free.

10. The First Basketball Game (MP. 320). $.15.

References from R ECREATION

December 1937 issue—devoted entirely to Joseph
Lee

November 1939—Spirit of Joseph Lee Day

May 1939—National Joseph Lee Day and I ts Sig-
nificance for the Interpretation of Community
Recreation

May 194o——Doirig It the Joseph: Lee W'ay

July 1943—The Sims/zine Fairy (back cover)
October 1943-~——-Josepli Lee Day—I943

Special Pageant and Festival Material

Music Unites the Nation (MP. 350). $.10
Youth at War Pageant (M.P. 343). $.10
I Hear America Singing (MP. 340). $.10

 

Children of the Americas (MP. 338).
regarding the $10

Day in a num- V- t M P .- A 1 r-
in Hue July and All for d 1c ory ( f. . 33/). “15 a)
ECREATION . groun pageant or young C1 ren.

- ' $.10
greatly 11‘ ac- .
of +he day in Amerlcans All (MP. 331). $.10
iciation as soon Young Americans in Action (M. P.
ebrali°m Why 311). A citizenship pantomime. $.10
kegs '§SP°"5'b'e A Playground Fair (MP. 304). $.15
e ay ' Bibliography of Patriotic Pageants for
Playground and Community Cele-—
brations (MP. 341). $.10

This Is What Happened in a Few Cities

Lynchburgl Virginia. Celebrated Joseph Lee Day
on all the city playgrounds. Joseph Lee’s favorite
games were featured. A short story that he wrote,
“The Summer Fairy,” was told to the smaller
children.

Los Angeles' California. By official proclamation
of the Mayor, fifty—two playgrounds and commu-
nity centers sponsored activities illustrating the
value of ideas advocated by Joseph Lee—character
building, prevention of delinquency and good citi—
zenship teaching. Children and adults participated
in plays, festivals, sports and tournaments.

' MemphisI Tennessee. This city dedicated its
summer playground program to the memory of
Joseph Lee. On Joseph Lee Day the story of
Joseph Lee was part of every program. Music,
community singing, games, dancing, and a hand-

- craft display were featured.

San Francisco. California. A Central Play Day
was a preliminary to the national observance of
' Joseph Lee Day. Relay races, singing games,
combative sports, swimming and softball were
some of the events. This city conducted appro-
priate programs all week, ending in the celebration
of National Joseph Lee Day. (See RECREATION,
July 1943-)
PuebloI Colorado. The City Council issued an
Official Proclamation setting aside Joseph Lee Day

for appropriate programs to be arranged and dedi-
cated on all city playgrounds.

White Plains, New York. Suitable exercises were
held on each program in connection with editorials
which appeared in the paper.

St. Paull Minnesota. “In tribute'to Joseph Lee,
the Father of America’s Playgrounds,” programs
were held at all playground centers. Exhibitions
of playground activities were held for the com-
munities, with doll buggy parades, track events,
singing games, softball, volley ball, drum and bugle

(Continued on page 156)

 

LANS ARE the net result
P of ideas, suggestions, or

recommendations which
take form in a tangible blue
print, pattern or scheme.
Sometimes these plans are
the result of the efforts of
one person or one agency.
Often they are a reflection
of the effort of many per-
sons.

Many states, counties, and
municipalities never get be-
yond the preliminary plan—
ning stage. Much time and
energy, many meetings and
conferences are devoted to
the planning of facilities
that never materialize. Too

Planning for Plans

By MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN

Superintendent of Recreation

WashingtonI D. C.

In presenting this article. Mr. Christian-
sen calls attention to two facts which should
be kept in mind in considering the Wash-
ington situation: I. Washington is governed
by the Congress: 2. With the enactment by
Congress in April I942 of Public Law 534.
all public recreation programs and opera-
tion were unified under a recreation board.
The board is made up of seven members—
tour citizens and three officials representing
three agencies which control or have iuris-
diction over the properties being used in
the unified program. These agencies are:

the Board of Education. the National
Capital Parks Office, and the District of

Columbia Commissioners.

Some Basic Principles

Let us analyze some of
the prerequisites which fit
into a pattern whereby plans
cannbe drafted which will
directly benefit the whole
community pattern.

Certainly land acquisition
is basic. This should be the
professional responsibility
of the municipality’s land
acquisition agency, and pur—
chase should be upon recom—
mendation of those qualified
to recommend. This pro-
gram must relate to existing
social and economic factors,
population trends, available
facilities, and the basic city

much of our planning has no
sound basis upon which in—
dividuals or groups can agree; and agreement is
necessary if decisions reached are to carry weight.
Lack of prestige or recognition for agency repre-
sentatives may directly affect the preparation of
plans or the actual carrying out of plans agreed
upon which the board, departments, or agencies
must follow through to completion.

As in most cities, public recreation facilities in
the Nation’s Capital are located on school, park,
housing, and other municipal properties. Many
times property jurisdiction overlaps or is contigu—
ous. Practical problems must be resolved despite
mixed jurisdictional control. Administration and
planning are correspondingly complicated. In
Washington, there are 115 active recreation units
in operation of which seventy are year—round.
Eventually this number will expand to 161 as
funds are made available for construction, develop-
ment, maintenance, and Operation.

Private agency groups in the Nation’s Capital,
as in other cities, have long range programs of
facility development which must be brought into
the community plan if the public is to derive maxi-
mum benelits. The overlapping and duplication on
the part of community agencies in our cities can
create a serious problem. The lay public is often
at a loss to know to whom to present their needs
and problems.

142

 

plan. The acquisition pro-
gram directly affects exist—
ing and proposed schools, parks, and housing facili‘
ties. Private agency facilities must also be con-
sidered.

Another basic element which fits into the plans
and the planning process is the maintenance and
development program. Functional designing by
qualified technicians who have taken into consider—
ation the factors of operation and supervision will
contribute to maximum use and win the taxpay-
er’s satisfaction. ,

If little of the planning that is discussed actually
takes shape in the form of tangible results, it is
because the structure or the method for accom-
plishment of the net result lacks adequate author-
ity or recognition. It is essential that the agency
which does the planning be clothed with the
proper authority or possess enough prestige and
importance so that its recommendations will carry
"the necessary ammunition for defense against all
obstacles.

Methods Used in Washington

A most effective method exists in Washington
for actually accomplishing “plans.” The Coor-

'dinating Committee on Recreation Plans was cre—

ated in 1935 by the President’s Committee on
Recreation for the District of Columbia, which was
appointed as a step towards unifying a complex

RECREATION

recreation system. The Co-
ordinator of Recreation ap»
pointed by the Committee
was named chairman of the
planning committee. By the
creation of this committee
every public agency which
had a direct or indirect re-

sponsibility in the recreation picture was formally
It is, generally speaking, a
technicians’ committee including representatives
from the public school officers, the municipal archi-
tect’s office, the National Capital Parks office, the
National Capital Park and Planning Commission,
and the” Recreation Department. The Superin-

brought together.

tendent of Recreation has
been the chairman of the
Committee since 1942 when
the unified plan of operation
under the Recreation Board
was set up.

Meetings are held regu-
larly, but special meetings
are" called when necessary,

JUNE 1944

PLANNING FOR PLANS

"The design and construction of public rec-
reation facilities should be a composite of
the best thoughts, ideas and experiences
based on the most widely accepted princi-
ples and practices. Not only must the tech-
nician make his contribution, but the layman
who pays the bill must have a voice in the
entire proiect of community planning.H

This plan was prepared by the National
Recreation Association to show how a five
acre site may be developed to provide all
the maior features considered essential in a
neighborhood playground which may be
used by the entire family. A bulletin con-
taining a somewhat larger reproduction
of the plan, with illustrations and an ex»
planation of the features presented, is
available from the Association at l5 cents.

'— - p u o a ..I

r--—----—.

MUL’TIDLL um. AlnLA E

QALL WlAj'Hll shim-"4

143

Representatives of the hous-
ing agency and other groups
are invited when problems

' affectng these agencies are

to be discussed. .Recently
the Committee enlarged its
membership to include the
executive secretary of the

Recreation Division of the Council of Social Agen-
cies as a regular member, a step which promises
even more effective correlation and coordination
of private and public agency plans and programs.

It can readily be noted that this technical com-
mittee membership provides a complete cross sec-
tion of functions and responsibilities.

E?er_v
aspect of the recreation field
is thus tied into the com-
plete problem as affecting
studies and research, acqui-
sition of properties, main-
tenance, construction, de-
velopment, and public use.

All subjects brought
before the technicians‘

:w‘aerWaMz’

.31

its? MRI.‘
“‘LI “MI I

Ht 1

‘« » "4 i 1—1 ' - lama/71‘“ WWW???“ Warm?-

? LLLYI'W‘ ALLIJ‘I ‘ 6",.“ b “Till-‘IA

mu '1
NOYI. ‘1

 

“1’le LIN!‘ INTI QIWMEY U)...
nmanv us: - mm: a Kl. 5MTIHG.1>AHCII'1CI.

144

committee are thoroughly discussed by the mem—
bers who give careful thought to all the problems
presented for consideration. Final agreements and
recommendations arrived at'by these technicians
are subject to the administrative action of the
respective boards or departments, where citizen
representation may give final approval or disap-
proval. Disapproval may result in a joint com-
mittee meeting to discuss plans further in the in-
terest of providing maximum benefits and facilities.

Typical Problems Discussed

It seems desirable here to refer to the afore-
mentioned functions in relation to the total prob-
lem‘by typical problems, projects, and accomplish—
ments.

A typical problem for the Coordinating Com-
mittee on Recreation Plans may be the construc-
tion of a new school building. The preliminary
plans for the building and grounds are brought
before the committee where every specific problem
on recreation use, maintenance, and operation is
studied. Recommendations may follow for pro—
viding adequate office space for recreation staff;
for designing facilities so that they are easily ac-
cessible to the outdoor recreation facilities or so
they can be cut off from the rest of the building;
for furnishing adequate showers and lockers for
community recreatio‘h use, and storage space for
equipment supplies; and perhaps for locating a
swimming pool so that the school’s central heating
plant can economically heat the pool. Possibly ad—
ditional land must be acquired for community ten—
nis courts, hard surfaced areas for all weather use,
and playground equipment for smaller children.
Or other problems of this nature may be brought
up for discussion. I

Another example of coordinated action occurs
when the housing authority representatives bring
their preliminary plans for study. The location of
a project is often times determined by the availa—
bility of existing play space. Discussion may cen—
ter around the location of the housing project com—
munity building so that it will provide access and
availability to the adjacent community." The design
of outdoor and building facilities may also be dis—
cussed so that maximum services can be provided.

In Washington the Recreation Board operates
in all public and some private housing projects
which include community buildings, altogether in
twelve different projects. By agreement, the hous-
ing authorities (public and private) finance main-
tenance and custodial services; the Recreation De—

9

PLANNING FOR PLANS

partment provides recreational leadership and
supplies.

One of the significant developments of recent
date was the preparation of two sets of desirable
minimum standards for school outdoor properties
to be used for community recreation. These stand—
ards relate primarily to prerequisites for outdoor
space, land acquisition, equipment, relation of hard
surfaced to turfed areas. Study of these standards
by the Recreation Board and by the Board of Edu—
cation is part of a collaborative effort which later
will be applied to existing school units as well as
to future acquisition and development.

Copies of the minutes of the meetings of the co-
ordinating committee serve as a record and refer-
ence so that agency representatives are able to
keep constantly informed of problems and recom—
mendations.

Thus it can be seen that an effective scheme is
in operation for processing Washington’s plans
for recreational facilities. When the process has
reached the stage of seeking appropriations, the
taxpayers of the city, the proper administrative
boards, the District Commissioners, and the Con-
gressional committees can be assured that joint
agreement has been reached on plans. This means
economy, elimination of duplication and overlap
ping, clarification of functions, and the develop-
ment of a public respect, understanding, and con—
fidence for the many‘elements that go into making
an effective public recreation system.

NOTE: The Board of Education of the District
of Columbia recently notified the National Capital
Park and Planning Commission that provision for
adequate indoor recreation facilities will be incor-
porated in the designs of all public schools erected
in the future adjacent to public playgrounds. The
Board of Education also notified the Recreation
Board of the District of Columbia of its action.
The resolution passed asks that the municipal
architect consult with'all of the agencies concerned
with the preparation of plans for school buildings
to learn what is needed for indoor recreation
facilities.

April Ist marks the opening of the Home Play-
yard Contest held each spring in W ashington under
the direction of the Child Traffic Safety Council,
with the sponsorship of the Recreation Depart—
ment, Recreation Division of the Council of Social
Agencies, Junior Board of Commerce, Department

of Vehicles and Traffic, the Traffic Advisory Coun—
cil, and the public and parochial schools.

r RECREATION

First Aid for Depleted Supervisory Staffs!

By R. W. ROBERTSON

AS YOUR part-time play-
ground director turn-

over been terrific in the
months since Pearl Harbor?

Do you find your new play-
ground directors younger and
greener, or older and just as
green'and less sure of their
abilities?

Has your full-time staff
been reduced so that ade-
quately training and super-
vising the new playground
. directors is a problem?

Do your prospective direct-
ors lose interest in working
I for you if they learn they have s
to travel very far to their assignments or to
meetings?

\Ve hazard the guess that “Yes” will be your
answer to these questions. \Ve are all in the same
boat. As a partial solution to the problems in-
volved in operating playgrounds these days, the
Oakland, California, Recreation Department rec-
ommends trying the division director system. The
core of the plan is using your
most experienced playground
directors to the greatest ad-
vantage.

Superintendent, Recreation Department

Oakland, California

The Recreation Department of Oakland,
California, recommends for your consid-
erationI in these days of manpower short-
age, the "Division Director System," the
core of which is using to the greatest
possible advantage a recreation depart-
ment's most experienced directors. It
you are'one of the many executives who
are. spending sleepless nights worrying
over the seemingly hopeless problem of
leadership. don't miss this article!

Many of the residents of Oakland
consider sailing on Lake ° Merritt
one of the best of the sports made

The system has 'been in
practice in Oakland for almost
two years, and without it the
problems of personnel and
training and of’program de—
velopment would have driven
the supervisory and office staff
crazy. As plans for the sum-
mer of 1942 were laid, it be—
came apparent that prepara-
tions should be made for the
time when the supervisory
staff, composed of men and
women of military service
age, would be off to the war,
and still a playground pro-
gram for this city of 325,000
people must go on efficiently and effectively. From
this realization came the genesis of the division
director plan. Today, with but one or two super-
visors to assist the superintendent, where there had
been six, we can see the point was well taken.

A number of other factors entered into the adop-
tion of this system. The quality of new recruits,
judged from a professional viewpoint, was below
that of the depression years.
Military service, industry and
marriage were cutting deeply
into the ranks of the “old-timers”

available for their enjoyment

~ ..,-

lUNE 1944

 

146 FIRST AID FOR DEPLETED SUPERVISORY STAFFS!

who remained as playground directors for the
period of their college training. This was serious,
for these experienced directors had played an im-
portant part in establishing an esprit (1e corps and
in setting and maintaining the standards for good
playground direction. Transportation, too, with
street cars and busses figuring more prominently
in the lives of the part-time directors, forced ad-
justments in our previous procedures and practices.

Details of the Plan

Briefiy, the division director system calls for
setting up geographic areas of the city and as-
signing to each a full—time recreation director.
These division directors are responsible for the
quality of the recreation program on all school and
municipal playgrounds within the division oper‘
ated by the Recreation Department, and for co—
ordinating these activities with the program of the
group work agencies and churches to avoid dupli-
cation of program and leadership. By assigning
thoroughly experienced playground directors who
have been “through the mill” to these division
jobs, the widest possible benefit is made of their
experience, professional attitudes, and knowledge
of playground directing techniques.

In selecting the division directors, the most ex-
perienced people on the part-time staff were con—
sidered. Fullutime appointments were made upon
the basis of experience as a playground director. in
a variety of situations in Oakland, ability to cope
with difficult behavior problems, skill in organizing
their work and time to good advantage, ability to
work with people both subordinate and superior,
and a pleasant manner and appearance that will
represent the Department well when working with
parents, teachers, and representatives of group
work agencies, including the churches. A good
division director is familiar with the city and with
his division in particular, eSpecially with its recre-
ation facilities and its resources for recreation
leadership and enriched leisure—time program, and
with the recreational and leisure—time needs of
people within that area whom he is there to
serve. '

Two of those appointed came from civil service
eligible list, thereby exhausing it. Being loathe
to make permanent appointments in this classifica-
tion at a time when a representative field of candii
dates could not be secured because of the war, the
Civil Service Board declared the position open for
emergency appointments for the duration of the
war. The remaining appointments were made upon

this basis. To qualify for permanent rating, these
people will have to appear sufficiently high upon
the civil service list established for this classifica«
tion within six months after the war. 'In practice,
all the division directors in Oakland are women.

There are four phases of the division director’s
job: assisting the Department in keeping all the
playgrounds and centers 0pén and running at maxi-
mum capacity; developing a good municipal recre-
ation program through working with the play-
ground and center directors; checking on certain
operational details for the supervisors and office
staff; and in a public relations capacity assisting
in the coordinating of the Recreation Department
activities with those of group work agencies and
schools carrying on leisure-time programs for all
ages of patrons in the division. In the summer,
when the playgrounds are open seven to eleven
hours per day, an assistant division director work-
ing on an hourly basis is assigned to each area to
assist the regular division director.

Primarily, the division director’s job is that of
“breaking in” the new playground directors. Here—
tofore new directors could be required to attend
group.training meetings or would be assigned to
work with an eXperienced director, and four super—
visors could oversee their work on the grounds.
Now, with the rapid turnover, total reliance upon
group training is impractical, and the new director
must learn by doing in the job situation, without
the benefit of the experience of a second director.
By going to the playground and actually working
along with the new director for several days, the
division director can get over department stand—
ards and practices and assist with the laying out of
a program for the ground. Turnover being a
major problem, the division director is constantly
on the alert for new playground directors, either
outstanding high school seniors, or young mothers
or older women. Likely persons are referred to
the main office for interview and appointment.
When a regular director must be absent from the
grounds, the division director can assist by finding
a substitute director, or taking over the grounds
for the day herself.

As the new directors become more familiar with
their duties‘ and responsibilities, it is the duty of
the division director to see that the recreation
program makes the best use of facilities and meets
the needs of the patrons and possible patrons.
Suggestions and assistance can be given the regular
playground directors from time to time which will
vitalize and extend the activities on .their grounds

RECREATION

FIRST AID FOR DEPLETED SUPERVISORY STAFFS! 147

 

Members of the New Century Com-
munity Center in Oakland give a
performance of "The King's Crown"

or help them solve difficult be-
havior and adjustment prob-
lems. Regular instructional and

done to playground pr0perty,
or equipment has been lost, the
division director can see that

operational meetings of‘all the directors in the
division are conducted by _the division director.
Volunteer workers from among parents and neigh-
bors can be sought to give special leadership, such
as storytelling, for enrichment of the playground
program, and these volunteers can work under the
direction of the regular playground director. The
division director, too, can assist the playground
directors in handling larger events involving several
playgrounds, such as skating parties, swims and
picnics” The good division director gets around to
every playground in her division frequently and
keeps an eye on all that goes on.

To the division director can be left the clearing
of certain details in the actual employment of new
directors—securing work permits when necessary,
overseeing the ten volunteer training hours, discuss-
ing availability and neighborhoods where they can
work, arranging about inventories, keys and in-
troductions. The division director can see that
the regular playground directors are prompt with
their required monthly reports and have complied
with all calls for special information pertaining to
the operation of playgrounds. The division di-
rector can be constantly watching the use of equip-
ment, and making suggestions and taking steps to
prolong its useful life. Where damage has been

TUNE 1944

any monetary replacement is made before collect-
ing becomes impossible.

As the representatives of the Recreation Depart-
ment in the area, these leaders are- to work with
any community councils interested in furthering
recreation, to the end that the recreation program
for the area is unified, meets the needs, and avoids
duplication of time and effort upon the part of
leaders. The division director should know the
group work leaders in the division,rthe school
principals and physical education teachers, the re-
ligious education directors and the civilian defense
leaders, the PTA. and Dads’ Clubs leaders, and the
local police officers. The facilities for recreation in
the area not under the jurisdiction of the Recrea-
tiOn Department should be known to the division
director so that it can be determined if the recrea-
tion program is making the fullest use of all pos-
sible resources.

Since it is the division director who has her
fingers on the pulse of the community, it is to be
expected that she would have recommendations to
make from time to time in regard to improvement
of facilities or leadership, or for new programs to
be developed or new lines of coordination with
other agencies to be tried. Such recommendations

(Continued on page 162)

The Sports Program at the Falk Corporation

By D. M. DELANY

T THE FALK Corpora—
A tion in Milwaukee
more than two dozen
recreation activities which
appeal to young and old
are being conducted, but
the tendency is to empha-
size competitive sports be—
cause they provide not only
recreation for the partici-
pants but great enjoyment
to fellow employees who '
watch the games.-

Among the most popu—
lar activities are baseball,
basketball, football, bowl—
ing, golf, tennis, soccer,
riHe shooting, softball, and boxing. The program
of sports at Falk has been undoubtedly influenced
by the fact that Richard S. Falk, who initiated it,
was himself an athlete in college, has been a leader
of sports in the Middle West, and is a man with a
vision to see the value of such activities in indus—

trial plants.
. We believe at Falk that

Soccer teams from the Falk Corporation and

 

Mr. Delany. Director of Employee Activities.
the Falk CorporationI presents the case for
competitive athletics in the industrial recrea-
tion program and gives reasons for his belief
in its values. Many boys coming into industry
from school. he suggestsI have taken part in
competitive athletics and we nt to continue play-
ing certain games on this basis. Participation
in competitive sports develops leadership quali-
ties and initiative which make themselves felt in
the shop. Moreover. the recognition a worker
receives through skill in playing games may
stir him to achievement along other lines.

intershop leagues are
splendid activities but that
employees who excel in an
activity should have oppor-
tunity to develop their abil-
ity to a high degree. Games
with .outside plants are ac-
cordingly a part of the pro-
gram. Baseball is naturally
one of the most popular
sports, and our team has
carried off high honors in
playing With outside teams.
A special effort has been
made to schedule games at
camps for the enjoyment
of servicemen. The Falk
football team, too, has made a record for itself,
having won the Wisconsin industrial champion—
ship last fall.

Other sports in which Falk teams compete with
outside teams include basketball, and in this sport
we have three teams playing in leagues, with the

girls’ team scheduling
games with the WACs.

(Continued on page 157)

the Royal Air Force played a rousing game!

 

“’9‘ J” “N.

WM
9' a 4*
,4», “my, 5-, _ hi r I." “naught-u y.

RECREATION

uFigure ll: Out"

WRITTEN to fit many The  War Loan Drive  be Cleveland HClghtS, Ohio,

types of presenta-
tion under all sorts

of conditions, “Figure It
Out” is a play providing
an ideal activity for over-
all community participation, with the special co—
operationiof high school groups, boys clubs, Boy
and Girl Scout troops, playground groups, and
youth and community organizations of all types.

So Heifible is the script in regard to casting and
staging, that the show may be presented in whole
or in part, outdoors or indoors, on the
radio as well as on the stage. Such songs
i as “Let’s All Back the Attack,” “Squander
Bug,” and “Double Duty Dollar” may be
used independently. If you can’t do the
whole show, you can present a portion of
it, or use the motion picture film (16—mm)
to cover the more complicated sequences,
or play or sing some of the music in con-
nection with various kinds of summer programs.

The cast may range from 50 to 200 or more.
Most of the parts are for boys and girls in the
teen age group, but there are several roles for
adults. Every type of dramatic and musical talent
in the community may find a place in the show.

The production may be presented complete with
band, orchestra. and various choral and dance
groups, or it may be staged very simply, to piano
or organ accompaniment, with a small chorus and
a few singing principals. Except for a curtain,
some simple drapes or flats, a few platforms, some
sort of lighting arrangement, and a motion picture
screen' and projector, no
scenery or stage equip-
ment is required.

Previous productions of
“Figure It Out” have
varied from extreme sim—
plicity to extreme elabor—
ateness. The particular
theatrical resources and
talent available within the
community determine the
nature and scope of each
production.

Since its highly success-
ful tryout production in

JUNE 1944

conducted June l2-July 8. What
will your playgrounds do to help?

UNITED
STATES

 

in March, almost 1,600 re-
quests for “Figure It Out”
scripts have come in.
About 150 school and
community groups have
already presented productions or have scheduled
them for spring and summer, in many instances
during the Fifth War Loan Drive (June 12-July
8). Such productions have a double value; they
dramatize the reasons behind buying War Bonds
and Stamps, and they make logical the purchasing
of War Bonds as the price of admission.

Your local War Finance Committee will
be glad to cooperate with you in present—
ing “Figure It Out” in your community
during the Fifth War Loan Drive or at
some other time during the summer. You
will probably get additional help from
such local organizations as your commu—
nity theater group, your OCD Council,
your P.T.A. and the women’s and professional
groups in your town.

For a sample script with music, write to the
Education Section, War Finance Division, Wash-
ington, D. C. Those groups which decide to do
“Figure It Out” should ask for extra scripts, the
production manual, the slide film, orchestrations
of the songs, and (if required) film for the motion
picture sequences.

If you are looking for summer program ma-
terial that is fresh and interesting and, at the same
time, will be a real contribution to your commu-
nity’s understanding of an important war problem,
figure yourself in with
“Figure It Out.”

Are you looking for timely patriotic material
to use in your summer dramatic program. at
your community rallies. your outdoor cele-
brations and meetings. your young peeple's
recreation programs of various kinds?

It you are. consider the Treasury Depart-
ment's new full-length “living newspaper"
play. "Figure It Out." which combines enter-
tainment with dynamic presentation of the
facts about War Finance. The play uses live
action. film sequences. nine topical songs.
lively dances. charts. and crisp narration to
tell the graphic story of our home-front
battle against inflation and waste.

Just Remember!

If your group feels that
. it cannot undertake a C0111-
plete production of “Fig-
ure It Out,” perhaps you
could do a part of the
show, or at least make use
of some of the tuneful
songs which make up its
score. Or perhaps you
could find the time and the
occasion to present some

149

150 "FIGURE IT OUT”

of the other \Var Bond program material available
from the Education Section of the War Finance
Division, Treasury Department, Washington, D.
C. This includes shorter plays (15—30 minutes),
skits, radio scripts, and pageants.

Material in all these categories for groups of
various types and age levels is available on request
from the Education Section. Most of this ma-
terial, together with numerous program ideas and
sources, is listed in the free booklet, I’Var S avings
Programs for Schools at l/Var. In making your
requests, please specify what kind of material is

needed and the nature of the producing group.

“Whenever young Ameri—
cans come together,” says the
booklet on War Savings Pro—
grams mentioned above, “in
classrooms and assembly
halls, at rallies and athletic

events, for meetings, plays,

"Figure It‘ Out'I presents inflation in

down-to-earth terms. With bigger and
better boxes of candy. boys compete
for the affection of one girl until
the last suitor finds it necessary to
bring in his box on a wheelbarrow!

pageants, parades, concerts, song festivals. quiz
contests, radio broadcasts—at any gathering of
eager and enthusiastic young people, there is a
great opportunity for the kind of program that
will touch off that youthful eagerness and en-
thusiasm, for a program which will give every
young citizen the lift that comes from feeling
his own activity a part of the larger whole, a
program which will fill each ,one of them with a
surge of mingled pride and determination that
will put him in a lighting mood, ready to re—
double his contribution to the winning of the war.
“And whenever such a spirit is kindled, what—
ever the immediate occasion

may be, that is the time for
a War Savings appeal. There
is the place to stress the
value and the urgent neces—
sity for buying more War
Bonds and Stamps.”

 

RECREATION

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” IR FUTURE, The,” by Burnet Hershey.
Duell, Sloan and Pearce, New York. 258

pp- $2.75-
“Alaska, Road to,” by Douglas Coe. Julian

Messner, ’Inc., New York. 175 pp. $2.50. Ad-
venture reading for children.

“Arctic, Friendly,” by Vilhjalmer Stefansson.
Macmillan, New York, 1943. 812 pp. $5.00. A
timely new edition.

“Canada’s Last Frontier,” by Trevor Lloyd.
, Vol. 3, N0. 4—-—“Behind the Headlines.” Canadian
Institute of International Affairs. Toronto, On-
tario. 10 cents.

Chemist. “So You Want to Be a Chemist?" by
Herbert Coith. McGraw-Hill B00k Company,
Inc., New York, 1943. 128 pp. $1.50.

Conservation. “Helps in Planning Conserva-
tion Learning Experiences.” By five authors.
\Visconsin Department of Public Instruction,
Madison, \Visconsin. 57 pp. July 1943.

Girl Scouts. “Leadership of Girl Scout Troops."
Program Division, Girl Scouts, 155 East 44th
Street, New York. 1943. 365 pp. Order by cata—
logue number 20-1 15. Price 50 cents. Concerning
the intermediate program for Girl Scouts 10
through 14 years of age.

Lnnzbering, motion picture 011———“Over Pine
Mountain Trails,” 16 mm., sound, color, 25 min-
utes. "Timber in the Ozarks.” Transportation
charges. Dierks Lumber and Coal Company, 1006
Grand Avenue, Kansas City
6, Missouri.

Orient. “Looking at the
Far East.” A Unit for the
social studies classes of the
Dallas, Texas, junior and
senior high schools. Dallas
Board of Education, Dallas,
Texas. Bulletin number 188.

62 pp. October 1943. Price
10 cents.

FOR NATURE'S CHILDREN

For Nature's children I make this plea,
May they be here long after me.

May those who follow hear the call
Of old bolowhite in spring and fall.

And may they share the icy that's mine
When there's a fish upon the line.

Too barren were the earth for words
If gone were all the fish and birds.

Fancy a youth with all its dreams

I

Shaw. National Audubon Society, 1006 Fifth
Avenue, New York. Price 10 cents. Suggestions
for community houses.

Sand Dunes. “Dune Boy,” by Edwin Way
Teale. Dodd, Mead and Company, New York.
Price $3.00. How a boy caught endless enchant-
ment of the out-of-doors. An example of what
leaders in nature recreation are striving to ac-
complish—-—to discover the golden fleece.

Trees. Booklets and leaflets for teen age youth.
Simply written and profusely illustrated. Western

Pine Association, 510 Y eon Building, Portland 4,
Oregon.

Trees, 1M otion Pictures of. “Trees and Men.”
16 mm. or 35 mm. sound, 40 minutes. Modern
logging in the Northwest and conservation. “Trees
and Homes.” 16 mm. or 35 mm. sound, techni-
color, 30 minutes. Logging, lumber manufacture,
and conservation. Return shipping costs must be
paid by exhibitor. VVeyerhaeuser Sales Company,
P.O. Box 629, Newark, New Jersey.

Trips. “Science Excursions into the Commu-

, nity,” by George E. Pitluga. 154 pp. $1.75.

Bureau of Publications, Teachers College, Colum-
bia University, New York. A handbook for teach-

ers of grades four through eight.

“Venezuela, Land of Oil.” 16 page sketch with
maps and graphs. World Affairs Council, 32
Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode Island.

“Visual Education.” 26-page catalog listing
nature subjects that can be

visualized with colored slides.
Society for Visual Education,
Department 105, 100 East
Ohio Street, Chicago, Illinois.

“Wild Flower Booklet,” by
Frank Morris, Federation of
Ontario Naturalists, 198 Col-
lege Street, Toronto. Price
IO cents. 41 pp. on wild flower
conservation.

That finds no fish within its streams.

Plants for Indoors. “Selec—
tion and Care of Plants in the
Classroom,” by Ellen Eddy

l UNE 1944

Our world with life is wondrous fair.
God grant we do not strip it bare.

——-Anonymous

l/Vood. Educational series.
Veneers. Five pamphlets, each

(Continued on page 165)
151

WORLD AT PLAY

 

Patterson Pictures, Santa Rosa, California

OVER thirty years ago,
near Crescent City,
California, a redwood
tree about three feet in
diameter and believed to be 200 feet high was cut
down and a section sawed out to make way for a

The Indestructible
Heart of a Redwood

road. The section cut out was about forty feet in -
length. Thirteen branches are shown in the pic— '

ture, three of which are over ten inches in diame—
ter and more than thirty feet high. The light spot
near the center of the photograph shows a three
foot contact with the soil, and the nourishment of
all the new trees comes through roots sent down
into the soil at this point.——From American Forests.

A CODE to govern the
behavior of the junior
high school students in
New York City, pre-
pared by the youngsters themselves, has been
adopted by a majority vote of the eighty—three
junior high schools, representing a student popu—
lation of 100,000. Every one of the junior high
schools pupils received a c0py of the behavior
code which follows:

“I. I will never, knowingly, by word or deed,
injure anyone’s person, feelings or property in
any manner.

“2. I will always respect the religious beliefs
of others as I will respect my own.

Junior High Schools
Adopt Behavior Code

152

“3. I will ShOW cour-
tesy to other people at all
times, particularly to my

elders. _
“4. I will abide by the

laws and regulations of my

school and community.

“ 571 will be honest
with myself and others
and I will practice clean-
liness of mind and body
at all times.”

Joe E. Brown Reports
on Servicemen

WHEN Joe E. Brown,
well—known actor who in
civic life is a member of the Los Angeles Play-
ground and Recreation Commission, returned to
Los Angeles after months spent in entertaining
servicemen overseas, he was more convinced than
ever of the value of sports and recreation in pre-
paring young Americans for the most severe tests
of war or peace. A background of sports and rec—
reation is one of the most important factors oper-
ating to keep the boys in uniform physically and
mentally ht, he found.

Describing the appalling contrast between the
plight of children in Italy and those in this coun-
try, Mr. Brown said that Los Angeles children are
fortunate to have good playgrounds and recreation
centers While the Italian children not only have no
places to play but also are unable to go to school
because school buildings have been blown to dust
in the lighting. The comedian resumed his duties
as a member of the Recreation Commission the
day following his return. 9
COBB COUNTY and the
city of Marietta,
Georgia, will construct
a 40-acre recreation
park at a cost of $250000. A one story building
will contain a combination auditorium-gymnasium
with two basketball courts, a stage and collapsible
seats, as well as dressing rooms, three clubrooms,
a kitchen, snack bar. game room, and library.

RECREATION

City-County Park
Planned

‘ ’rures . . .

 

The War Produc’rion Board
has released ma’rerials I'o us
’ro make a limited number of
"Junglegym'I Climbing SI'ruc-
for America's
and play-
because ’rhe

pa rIrs

schools.
grounds . . .
"Junglegym" Climbing SI'ruc-
’rure conI’ribuI'es viIaIIy ’ro ’rhe
heal’rh and proper physical
developmenI' of young
America.

No war’rime sacrifice in qual-
i‘l'y! AII-s’reel consI'ruc’rion. ho’r
galvanized inside and ou’rl
Ins’raIIed size: cen’rer rower.
I0’-6” high; ouI'side waII.
8'-6” high; Ieng’rhI 6’3”
WId'I’I'I, 8’-4f’. CapaciI’yI 35
children.

GENUINE

THE WORLD-FAMOUS

“JUNGLE GYM’”

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

*Reg. U. 5. Patent Office

Bu’r you musI’ act quickly!

Jus’r a few are available . . .
for immediate sale . . . firsI’
come. firs’r served!

F. O. B.
Fa cIory

AND AT THE LOW PRE-WAR CEILING PRICE OF S] 5 o

WIRE OR AIR MAIL YOUR ORDER TODAY

 

JUNE 1944 I 53

154 DEGREE TO DOROTHY ENDERIS

lVit/z the
A ,R M Y

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought

to a successful conclusion.
*
3k

 DIAMOND CALK

“HORSESHOE CO.

4b|0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

Week—End CampinguLos Angeles girls over
nine years of age enjoy week-end camping at the
Giffith ,Park Girls Camp. The outings, which last
from Friday afternoon to Sunday afternoon, in—
clude hon-sing in comfortable cottages, six meals,
and a program of outdoor activities and camp fun
—all for $3.00.

A Community Play Day

(Continued from page 130)

summed up the Play Day in an editorial on the

preceding day. The editor wrote:

“Almost every type of recreation common in Brattle-
boro is in tomorrow's program, along with a few tricks
that are new. . . . Brattleboro not only will indulge in
all the forms of play that it commonly enjoys but will
make a big splurge of them all in one day.

“The advantages and benefits from the program will
be on the intangible side. No material wealth will he
added to the town and no one will gain in that direc-
tion aside from the prizes to be awarded the winners.
On the other hand, we shall have the spiritual benefits
from relaxation in play, relaxation in a period when
the strains of life are greater than ever. In bundling
all these events up into a single day we make it a day
in observance of all the little ways in which we retain
pleasure in living even in the midst of sacrifice.”

 

DOROTHY C. ENDERIs, head of the municipal rec-
reation system of Milwaukee, was awarded
the honorary degree of Doctor of Recreation Ser—
vice ‘by Carroll College, Waukesha, W isconsin, at
its commencement May 22nd.

As far as the leaders in the National Recreation
Association know, this is the first time that the
degree of Doctor of Recreation Service has ever
been conferred by an American institution of
higher learning.

The announcement reads: “Under Dorothy
Enderis’s wise and far—sighted leadership Milwau-
kee has developed a municipal recreation program
for youths and adults that is known throughout
the country for its excellence. Miss Enderis has
taken an active part in the life of the community
and given liberally of her time, thought and energy
to the promotion of the best social and civic inter-
ests of the city."

Few leaders in the national recreation move—
ment are better known, not only in this country
but abroad, than is Dorothy Enderis. Men and
women have come from a long distance to visit the
schoolhouse recreation centers of Milwaukee.
What is being done in Milwaukee has been re-
peatedly written up in bulletins and magazines.
Dorothy Enderis has had a very active part in the

(RECREATION

 

Initiative—The Foundation of Democracy

When young
“Red” Smith,
eighth grader at
Central School,
sits with wrin-
kled brow, plan-
ning tricky plays
for his football
team, he is exercising his constitutional
right to the "pursuit of happiness.” His
happiness, in this partiCular instance, is
trying to beat the daylights out of rival
teams. And that is the the basis of our
whole democratic competitive system.
It’s .the reason that no record, in any
branch of our economic life, is safe in
this country. No industrial record. No
scientific record. No engineering record.
No farm production record. No war
record.

 

Our kind of democracy gives us the
privilege of initiative. In America we
are free to go ahead and do things——

free to compete for leadership in any
walk of life.

IT'S WILSON TODAY

JUNE 1944

We are taught to believe that nothing
is so good that it can’t be doner or made
better. And that same initiative—that
competitive spirit of free men—that ever-
lasting urge to make the best better, bred
in the hearts of millions of Americans,
has made the U. S. the greatest nation on
the face of the earth,in peace and in WAR.

The youth of America learns initiative
early on our fields of sports. Out there,
where "the best man wins,” they develop
the will-to-win, the never-say-die spirit,
that makes them fight till the last man
is out—till the final gun of the last
quarter-—the last bell of the last round
m—the last shot of the last long set—the
last stride of the last lap.

Our competitive sports burn this ini-
tiative into our boys. While they develop
flne, strong bodies, and agilities and
skills in the use of those bodies, they
also develop priceless qualities of self-
confidence and determination—and a
deep-seated love for the ways of Ameri-
can democracy.

IN SPORTS EQUIPMEN

It is this love of independencen—this
freedom to compete on even terms for
any prize worthwhile, developed in our
youth by our competitive sports, that is
the greatest safeguard of our demOCratic
ways, in this age of sinister change.

Carried into manhood it will give us
a mighty bulwark against any invasion
of the sacred tenets of the American way
of life—~whether from without or from
within.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co.
and Wilson Athletic Goods Mfg. Co., Inc.
Chicago, New York and other leading cities

Imlmm'

llll’llm

Inn
mm

[ill

I

“ll”
"Hymn"
lmml
H
mm
mm
will

 

res-:-
SPORTS EQUIPME T

Wilson Ari: letic Goods
Mfg. Co. , Inc.
Cbt'cago Plant

 

_|

156 OUR IVOMEN OF THE FUTURE!

DANCE DESCRIPTIONS By HELENE CALDWELL

Descriptions of all types of dances, ballet, tap, acrobatic,
character for use in girls' camps, programs at all types, play~—
grounds and dance studios.

Complete Dance Acts. List on Request

Latest Dance Acts $2.00 each
"Victory Vanities" patriotic revue; "Kiddie Follies" for small

children; "Dude Ranch" comedy tap act.

421 WALNUT STREET
H ELEN E CA LDWE Ll- CHATTANOOGA 3, TENN.

 

work of the National Recreation Association. Her
many friends throughout the world will congratu-
late her on this well—deserved honor.

Joseph Lee Day, July 28, I944
(Continued from page 141)

corps exhibitions, baton twirling, tumbling, flag
drills, and musical numbers.

Houston. Texas. A city-wide Play Day at Her—
mann Park was held in honor of Joseph Lee.
Pony rides, toy airplanes and racing automobiles
were special events. Seesaws, swings, slides and
stunt bars were crowded. The climax was a tour
through the zoo.

Pantomime Is Easy
(Continued from page 138)

nated a series which they used as program material
under the title “Silent “Movies.” One of these is
given here in detail.

Her First Date

The scene is her room. A table represents a dressing
table, a chair its stool. Four chairs are arranged to
suggest a bed. i

In one wall we imagine a window, in another a door, in
another a closet which, when opened, reveals a long
mirror on the inside of the door.

BETTY is putting on her nail polish. She finishes it—care-
fully opens a drawer to take out a lipstick gingerly so
as not to disturb the polishaapplies it—and then
powders her nose. At this moment her mother enters.
Betty gets up and goes to her mother for inspection.
Her mother tells her she must remove some of the
lipstick. Betty pouts, but goes to dressing table, opens
drawer, fishes for Kleenex, and bites on it. The door
Ibell rings and she rushes to the window, sees a fiorist’s
car, then hurries to the door of the balcony. Her
mother, who has gone downstairs, comes back with a
corsage box. Betty takes it to the dressing table, pulls
off the string, removes the lid, finds the card—“It’s
from him l"—--opens the protecting paper and picks up
the oorsage. She tries it in her ‘hair, bending to look
in the mirror. The she crosses to the 5bed and lays the
flowers on the dress, removes the flowers, placing them
lovingly on the pillow. She picks up her long dress.
hands it to her mother, who holds it over her head.

Our Women of the Future!

NDER THIS TITLE the Girls’ League Associa-
U tion of Pittsfield, Massachusetts, announced
its program. The Association, which since 1911
has offered all girls of Pittsf‘leld an educational,
social and recreational program, serves the follow—
ing groups: _

Bluebirds (3 to 5 years)—Handwork, storytelling,
singing games—rhythms, free play in nursery
room

Tiny Tots (6 and 7 years)——-Simple crafts, play at
housekeeping—singing games, simple folk dances

Junior Elementary (8 and 9 years) — Games,
posture work, beginner’s gymnastics, tap and
folk dancing, crafts, sewing, cooking, dramatics,
swimming

Senior Elementary (Io and 11 years) ——Ga1nes,
posture work, intermediate gymnastics, tap and
folk dancing, stunts, handcraft, cooking, sewing,
dramatics, swimming

Junior High (II to I 3 years) -——Tennis, archery,
badminton, square dancing, gymnastics, self-
testing, baseball, volley ball games, swimming,
supper clubs, sewing, cooking, advanced crafts

High School  14 to 18 years)—Physical education,
home economics, social dancing, special activi-
ties, dramatics, leader training groups
Among other activities are hikes, parties, holi-

day and special day celebrations, sleigh rides, skat-

ing parties, a circus, Camp Fire Girls’ organiza-
tion with complete program of activities, and day
camping.

A statement received in October 1943 from Miss
Edith DeBonis, executive director of the Girls’
League Association, reports a registration of 520
ninth grade boys in the social dancing classes.

"From 400 to 700 high school boys and girls were

expected to attend the first high school dance held
in October. (See page 114 for picture.)

Betty stoops to get under it, straightens up, arms out-
stretched above her head, and wriggles into the dress.

' She turns so that her mother may fasten it. Then she
picks up the flowers, extracts the pin, hands both to
her mother, who pins them in place. Betty goes to the
long mirror to admire her costume.

A 'bell rings. This time it is the telephone, but
Betty runs to the window. There is no car waiting.
“Oh dear—something’s happened!” The door opens,
she looks, sees her mother—whose face she reads——
“Bill cannot go to the dance after all!” She gives a
cry of disappointment and throws herself on the bed
weeping.

RECREATION

THE SPORTS PROGRAM AT THE PALK CORPORATION 157

FILM PROGRAMS new

Rental

   

   
    
 
   
 
    
 

Specially Selected for Recreation Centers, Camps and Playgrounds
Over |,000 instructive, entertaining and educational FILMS

"Land of Liberty"—a patriotic “must” for your programs!
8 reels—$7.50

(Cecil B. De Mille has selected sequences from 112 different features pictures and shorts,
which tell the story of America’s struggle to attain and defend its freedom)

*

Official U. S. Government (Inter-American Affairs. War and News Reel subiects)
Adventure and Travel . . . Aviation . . . . Juvenile Problems . . . Physical and Popular Sciences
Sports . . . Music

FEATURES . . . CARTOONS . . . COMEDIES
*

, Write today for our film catalog Imt 015‘ the Pram!

Y. M. C. A. MOTION PICTURE BUREAU

347 MADISON AVE.
NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

351 Turk Street
SAN FRANCISCO 2, CAL.

I9 50. La Salle Street
CHICAGO 3, ILL.

In these “Pantomime Plays for One,” the one
character must suggest to the audience very clearly
who the other characters in the play are. In the
one given, Betty’s actions must make it clear to the
audience it is her mother who comes in to inspect
and to help her dress. Moreover, the audience

hears no bell, except through Betty’s ears.

The teacher or director who has worked with
pantomime in the fashion suggested will find it
easy to develop a pantomime play, and her efforts
will be rewarded in the development of originality,
and self-eXpression in each member of the group.

The Sports Program at Falk Corporation

(Continued from page 148)

A particularly interesting soccer game which
attracted state-wide attention was that played with
the Royal Air Force team of‘Dayton, Ohio, in
which the Falks came off victors.

Bowling is another popular sport at Falk. More
than six hundred bowlers play every day in shop
leagues, with the two top teams competing with
high ranking local teams.

In addition to their participation in intershop

JUNE 1944

 
  
 
   

I700 Patterson Avenue
DALLAS I, TEXAS

   

and plant tournaments, tennis and golf players at
the plant compete in industrial leagues against
teams in other plants. This is true, too, of the
Rifle Club. Organized originally as a hobby by a
group interested in shooting, the Rifle Club has
had a rapid growth, and meets weekly. A few years
ago some members of this club proposed the for-
mation of an industrial league to approach other
plants with the idea. As a result, a league was
formed which has been in Operation for two years.

Some of the Values of a Sports Program

The cost of athletic equipment is small in com-
parison with the results secured. Equipment can
be used for years if properly cared for. Proper
equipment and organization are, however, neces-
sary if maximum enjoyment is to be derived from
an activity.

The bugaboo of inadequate facilities can be easily
overcome. Companies or labor—management com-
mittees can readily gain the cooperation of munici-
pal recreation associations and secure the use of
their facilities. Such associations will often assist
in organizing leagues.

Participation in an activity should be voluntary.

   

158 ' B URBANK MAKES FULL USE OF ITS PARKS

“T—‘_- _‘,_ H 

 

ACTUAL PHOTO OF TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY, THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

Two-Way Bowling Alleys are now in use all over the United

States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard.WACS. U.S.0. Clubs. "Y's." and

Recreation Centers.

MAIL COUPON TODAY
FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

Employees cannot be forced to play. Once a few I

become interested, however, others will join in.

Start slowly with the less complicated activities
until natural leaders stand out among your em-
ployees. Let the employees themselves run the
activities as far as possible, with coaches or man-
agers coming from the employee group.

The use of a plant publication and bulletin
boards will increase interest in activities.

Keep all employees informed of schedules of
games. Nonparticipants derive much enjoyment
from watching employees. A feeling of pride in
their teams is developed among spectators which
carries over into the shop with good effects.

A physical fitness program in industry is of
primary importance. Emphasis on physical fitness
for employees will help prevent some of the dis—
abilities revealed at army induction centers.

W'hen industries everywhere unite to develop

Telephone LExington 2-8828 '0

     
   
   
   
   
   
   

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East- 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in. your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
ti onal information and literature describing alley.

N 47723 .............................................................. ..
Addreu ...................................................  ....... ..

City ..................................... .. State ............... ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. .

well-planned recreation programs we can look for-
ward to a healthier and happier America—an
America improved manifold, physically and men—
tally.

Burbank Makes FuII Use of Its Parks

(Continued from page 122)

the development of new ideas. One of the local
automobile top shops provided leatherette from
their scrap box to make purses, suspenders, book
covers and lapel gadgets. Whole sets of patio
plates were made with ordinary paper plates dec-
orated with gay designs in crayola, then shellacked
for permanence. Twisted crepe paper covered all
types of bottles and jars to make interesting and
useful ornaments, and two gallon ice cream cartons
were transformed into attractive waste baskets.
Raff-la and string were used in all sorts of ways,

RECREATION

   
 
    
     
       
 
 
 
    
  

sirrtmsrlc '
 A. {N
THlETI

/ ’J’-

r

_, I

  

/

  

0 F s YNTHETlC-RUBBER-CO VERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

BURBANK A—IAKES FULL USE OF ITS PARKS 159

._ ThoVoit Ball of Tomorrow

is worth waiting for!

Today Voit’s complete output of
super Synthetic-Rubber-Covered
Athletic Equipment is going to our
far-flung fighting fronts—to help
maintain morale among Uncle Sam’s
boys! Early in the fall, we expect to
fill essential civilian needs. Remem-
ber, the Voit Ball of Tomorrow’s
worth waiting for!

Write for Illustrated Price List.
Bu'Y WAR BONDS REGULARLY

Mfgd. by W. J.-Voit Rubber Corp.,1600 E. 25th St., los Angeles I], Calif.
Chicago Branchm'IBO No. Wacker Drive—~Zone 6

 

and with soap still available, young sculptors
turned out some interesting figures.

A poster contest was held for which the/activi-
ties of the parks served as subjects. The quality
of workmanship was amazing. Scrapbooks cover-
ing all kinds of subjects, and nature books made
of leaf blue prints provided awide range of interest.

“Good citizenship” in the home park was re-

warded with a rare treat——-an all-day hayride to -

the mountain park culminating in a watermelon
feast. A point system was employed, and all the
boys and girls were asked to earn their hayrides ;
thus regular participation in the summerr‘program
was encouraged. '

The final event of the summer was the field day
in which all parks participated, with ribbons
awarded for the handcraft display as well as the
usual held events. A “wading pool parade” started
this great day, with the very little tots, in cos-
tumes, either riding or wheeling gaily decorated
vehicles—scooters, tricycles and wagons, with
more ribbons being‘ awarded to the winners. A
“nose bag" lunch was enjoyed at noon, followed
by dramatic skits from each park. The park win-
ning the most points in the several events had the

IUNE 1944

honor of having its name placed {on a handsome-
plaque which will hang in the Recreation Center,
with a new name to be added each year.

Lifting'of the dimout on the Coast will make an,
enlarged program possible in 1944, and a Victory
Vegetable Show for the entire community will be:
the opening event. The playgrounds will run on-
the same schedule as before with a number of new
features added. A neighborhood night will be held:
in each park the first week so that the whole-
family may know of the pleasure offered in their-
own backyard. A concert by the Municipal Band
will be a feature of these get-acquainted parties,
supplemented by colorful dance numbers by boys
and girls who have been a part of the winter danc-
ing classes of the Parks and Recreation Depart-s
ment.

All the parks will have a special feature eacl'r
month to include all members of the family, so.
that the adults will become active participants in
the summer activity. A circus and carnival will be
held, the young people planning and carrying out
their own ideas of wild animals (a pet show),
tumbling. clowns, and perhaps a doll show. A
model airplane building contest, most successful
last year, will be repeated, as will the hayride and

160 YOUTH OUT OF DOORS

MIGHTY SPECTACLE! '
I/(‘I/(‘I/ /.’myr//m ' 7  " o .3
JululIZ-Z'DIN.AI   '2... -_

JEAN ARTHUR ifs-.1.
WILLIAM HOLDEN

OUTSTANDING
MOTION PICTURES

for

: '. RECREATION
'. CENTERS

Ammmnm
"mmmmm

HERBERT " "T" vmcmla

MARSHALL - BRUCE

A COLUMBIA PICTURE

 

SEND FOR CATALOG

WALT DISNEY’S

Mickey Mouse & Donald Duck FEATURES

World's Largest Distributors
The

RUSSELL C. ROSHON
ORGANIZATION

DEPT. N2—2200 RKO BUILDING

COLUMBIA

"0"“ ' RADIO CITY

16 — Coost-to—Coost Branches — l6

watermelon feast. Music of all types will play a
greater part than ever before.

The entire program has as its objective the pro-
vision of interesting recreation for war-weary citi-
zens of all ages who must, because of gasoline
restrictions, find wholesome fun within walking
distance of home.

Youth Out of Doors

(Continued from page 134)

one—act plays can be produced in any neighbor-
hood. This would be an excellent project for a
really ambitious teen age dramatic club, which in-
cludes some boys who are interested in carpentry,
stage craft and lighting, and a capable leader, who

can attach the moving van to her car and go night.

after night to a different neighborhood with her
Teen Town Troupe.

Swimming" Pool Fun. Finally, one of the most
interesting spots for sports, for socials and for
service is the swimming pool or beach. This is
where you’ll find the teen age any hot afternoon if
they are not working. Why not use them as well
as amuse them—or rather—why not help them to
help themselves and others to a good time?

First of all, there is the instruction period for
those who cannot swim or dive well. Besides using
the skilled youth as class assistants, why not have
a buddy swim campaign, wherein each one who
knows how to swim teaches or coaches one who
does not. Teen-agers can also help monitor the
pool at practice periods and for free swim hours,
and help organize safe games in the water or near
by, even if they have not qualified for the Junior

of leM. SOUND
. . WESTERNS

CARTOONS.

 

GENE AUTRY
MUSICAL WESTERN S

SERIALS

DOUBIE JOESI
DOUBLE FUN!

NEW YORK

Picture

 

Life Saving Corps. The members of this organi-
zation can give really marvelous life saving ser-
vice under a strong director. If he is wise, he’ll see
that this Corps also has many good times, picnics,
trips, maybe friendly contests with similar groups

in other pools. , r

Weekly Hollywood Party. This same Life Saving
Corps, or Junior Council, with little ingenuity can
make the swimming pool the site of a weekly
Hollywood pool party. Tables and chairs, colored
lights, a juke box and a snack bar, plus some
novelty swimming and diving and a good game of
follow-the—leader by those who are swimming, adds
to everyone’s fun. An elaboration of this idea be—
comes a Family Fun Night at the pool, with the
teen-agers proudly putting on the numbers for
parents and others seated in the bleachers. For-
-mation swimming, good diving, and nonsense in
and out of the pool make up most'of the program,
combined with community sings, life saving demon-
strations or contests, and even movies, for variety.

Since tli‘e pool is where you’ll find the teen age
in the summer, why not urge them to bring their
parents there, and grandparents as well, so that all
may have a joyous good time.

Leadership

The Leader. _Teen age activities require youth-
ful, enthusiastic leadership of the most indirect
kind. Young people will not be bossed, will not
follow a dictator, but they soon come to realize
they need an older person’s help. The leader
should be able to make suggestions so cleverly that
the boys and girls believe these are their own
original ideas; to draw out the abilities of the

RECREATION

YOUTH OUT OF DOORS 161

I PLAY ms
15‘ (0M 1N0

Before the war is over and playtime
comes again, you will want to do some
constructive planning toward making the
recreation centers of your community a
worthwhile project.

 

Above: a sixty foot group, _10
tier extended type bleacher With
a seating capacity of 440.

Bleachers are a major item. Universal Bleachers are designed to
give maximum comfort to your spectators, with minimum space loss
and preparation time requirement. Universal Wood Portables are

\ra"

   
 

run-Ir
-._..- “ca-ox

economical because the investment is small per person seated, and
because they are adaptable for different sports—soccer, football, base—
ball, etc. They're safe because the greater the load, the more rigid
the stand. They’re durable because they have no intricate parts, no
castings. All stress and strain are anticipated by the design, the lumber
selected, and the workmanship.

Universal -makes all types of bleachers; you will soon be able to
choose from among them, at one source. We make bleachers exclu-
sively; our knowledge and skill are concentrated on them. ‘

UNIVERSAL BLEACHER COMPANY

606 SOUTH NEIL ST., CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS

 

 

most shy; to stay in the background, pushing the
junior leaders forward, yet never having favorites;
to smooth over ruffled feelings, iron out difficulties
and sometimes even “lay down ‘the law” — but
always with a twinkle in the eye.

In addition to all these, the out—of—door leader
needs to be physically active, able to hike, ride a
bicycle, enter into folk and square dances with
gusto, enjoy swimming and horseback riding, and
be a ranking “dub” in many sports and an expert
in one or two. Add to these abilities judgment,
initiative, good sportsmanship, fair play, a sense
of humor, tremendous vitality, and a love of the
work which money cannot buy, and you have a
youth leader par excellence—if you can find one!

Without superior leadership, out-of—door youth
activities can become a liability. Since young peo—
ple do not want chaperones these days, much re-
sponsibility falls on the leader, who usually tries
to introduce as “helpers” the parents or other
adults who serve as snack bar workers, transpor-
tation aids, equipment carriers, life guards, sports
coaches and the like. While diligently carrying
out their duties they keep an eye on stragglers

JUNE 1944

and twosomes. Without this unobstrusive chaper-
onage, many outing and nighttime activities are
not advisable.

Senior Council. In all activities Youth Councils
or committees of the older teen-agers should be
organized to conduct the activities, in so far as
they can, guided by their mature leader, and pos-
sibly aided by a Senior Council, Parents’ Associa-
tion, Neighborhood Club or other adult organiza—
tion which paves the way, secures permissions and
facilities, underwrites financial obligations, super-
vises safety measures, and stays in the backyard.
Without adult sponsorship many activities will
not be successful, safe, or beneficial.

4 r

134,-.”va MATS—PADS

h

BOXING RINGS

   

‘ IRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALI.
..  BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by experts, nude by experienced workmen from
quaiin motel-idle and sell diced to schools, camps, e's
Independent, Indy wholesale.

. f“ ‘ NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT comrsny
 t as: ass-aunt: . roan ou LAC. ms.

5 en d; ifor Ne w (dialog

 

  
   
  

162 ' CLYDE DOYLE

New Publications on

PLAY AREAS and
RECREATION BUILDINGS

Community Recreation Buildings as
War Memorials . . . . . . $1.00

(Shall our war memorials serve the living
while honoring the dead? This book‘
offers information and plans)

Study for Small Recreation Building
(M. P. 349)"

(Description and floor plans for a build-
ing with a small auditorium and sev-
eral rooms for various uses)

Study for Recreation Building
(M. P. 348)*

(Description and floor plans for a build-
ing providing combined gymnasium
and auditorium and a number of rooms
designed for various recreational uses)

Standards for Neighborhood Recrea-
tion Areas and Facilities

Standards—Playgrounds. Playfields.
Recreation .- Buildings. Indoor Rec-
reation Centers

(A summary of the preceding. pamphlet)
Standards for a Neighborhood
' Playground

(Layout of a five acre playground for
use by all ages)

Playground Shelter Buildings
(M. P. 351)

(Plans for three buildings. with descrip-
tions of the various features)

* Taken from Community Recreation Buildings as
War Memorials

NATIONAL RECREATION
A S S O C I A T I O N
3|5 Fourth Avenue New York to, N. Y.

 

First Aid for Depleted Supervisory
Staffs!

(Continued from page 147)
should be made to the supervisor, or through the

supervisor to the superintendent.

Directing the work of the division directors and
supervising the playgrounds is the responsibility of
the supervisory staff of the Recreation Department
-———the superintendent and the supervisors of recre-
ation. Periodic meetings of the division directors
are held with the supervisory staff to clear prob-
lems. lay plans and disseminate information and
operational instructions. Minutes of these meetings
are taken and cepies given to the directors and,
supervisors.

(Continued on page .163)

Clyde Doyle

 

LYDE DOYLE, attorney at law, Long Beach,

California, has resigned as president of the
city’s Recreation Commission, a position which he
has held since its creation fifteen years ago. John
A. Paap, a member of the Commission since
August 1943, will serve as Mr. Doyle’s successor.
Mr. Paap, a practicing attorney in Long Beach for
ten years, is well known for his work in many
local civic organizations. He has been particu-
larly active in plans for the deveIOpment of the
Long Beach airport.

On the occasion of Mr. Doyle’s retirement the
City Council passed the following resolution:

“Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City
Council of Long Beach, that the City Council
wishes to take this means of joining with the
citizenry of Long Beach, as a whole, and in this
manner honors Mr. Doyle for the splendid ser-
vices he has so untiringly and unselfisth ren-
dered to the city in pioneering, establishing, and
directing the recreational program and activities
of this city; that in addition to his duties as
Chairman of the Recreation Commission, both
before and after its creation, Mr. Doyle has been
extremely active in all of those fields directed to

RECREATION

 

FIRST AID FOR DEPLETED SUPERVISORY STAFFS.’ 163

1

the civic betterment of the community, with par-

ticular emphasis on the youth of our city.”

Since 1929 Mr. Doyle has been an honorary
member of the National Recreation Association.

Clyde Doyle and men and women like him have
had a large part' through the years in building the
national recreation movement.

First Aid for Depleted Staffs!

(Continued from page 162)

The administrative value of this plan as an
operational tool in times of reduced supervisory
staff and rapid turnover of playground directors is
apparent. There is another value, too, which has
important implications for this Department and
the professional field of recreation work. It gives
experience on a wider level to playground direct-
ors interested in going into recreation as a profes-
sion but who are not yet ready for positions on a
supervisory level. It is a stimulation to the serious
director. to realize that there are opportunities in
the field, upon'a full-time level, immediately ahead.

The division director system evolved out of a
very real need to make judicious use of all the

JUNE 1944

lllERIIZHIlBRAlJSBYIZ'!

Tomorrow’s World of Sports

LOOMS BRIGHT
TOMORROW. when millions of

our boys come triumphantly home
. . . when today's eFtorts of for-
ward-thinking groups to promote
wholesome sports participation
among young people bear tull truit.
. . . Americans of all ages will turn
to baseball, softball and golf to
help build and maintain mental and
physical health—and morale.

llllllilllll Sllllililll Bills

experience in operating playgrounds that was
available. In a public- recreation system composed
of forty-eight school playgrounds, thirteen munici-
pal playgrounds, four community centers, and
facilities for golf, tennis, swimming, baseball, soft-
ball, camping and boating, together with six hous-
ing units needing recreational leadership, the
division director system has been of definite value
and it is to be recommended to other municipalities
facing the same problems as Oakland.

“‘7 e  :bancer”

A Magazine for Teachers, Recreation Leaders
Folk Dancers, Research Workers, etc.

 

       
   
 

Contains music and dance instructions for

dances of many lands, program material, book

and record reviews, material on folk costumes,
customs, history, illustrations, pictures.

Published monthly by the Community Folk

Dance Center directed by Michael Herman.
$1.25 a year.

Write for sample copy to

P. O. Box 201. Flushing. L. L. N. Y.

 
   
       
   
   
   
   

164

 

 

  
 

IIIIES YIIIIII PIIIIGIIAM
INCLUDE -

Arts and Cm ts?

THEN JUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES

MAGAZINE will be a source of practical
help to you and to all recreation leaders, craft
directors, scout leaders, church workers, teach-
ers. Every issue contains things to make, to do,
to draw. All projects are presented in pracrical,
workable form with complete instructions; they
may be adapted to any age group.

The combination of art and craft projects and
social and nature studies will mOtivate or cor-
relate with any program. Children can be
trained in the requirements and high ideals of
good citizenship while engaged in enjoyable
activities.

DO YOU HAVE TROUBLE
GETTING SUPPLIES?

Many art and craft materials formerly available
cannOt be obtained now, but recreational and
craft directors will find the practical'suggeStions
offered in JUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES of
great value. All acrivities are carefully selected
to require only those materials which can be
readily and inexpensively .obtained.

Send Your Order Now

I year's subscription (I0 issues—
beginning any month)
$3.00

Canada—25c odditionol
Foreign—50c additional

JUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES is published

monthly except during July and August. Print-
ings are limited by paper shortages and govern-
ment restrictions. Make sure you will receive
this valuable assistant monthly by placing your
subscription at once.

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Dept. R

46|6 N. Clark Street
Chicago 40, Illinois

 

 
    

    

    

 
 

RICHARD LIEBER

Richard Lieber

ICHARD LIEBER of Indianapolis, Indiana, chair-
man of the Board of Directors of the National
Conference on State Parks, and vice-president of
the American Planning and Civic Association, died
at McCormack’s Creek State Park in Indiana,
April I5, 1944, at the age of seventy-four.

The Indiana State Park system which was
largely planned and developed between 1915 and
1933, when he served as the state director of con—
servation, is in part a fitting memorial to Mr.
Lieber’s vision and desire to perpetuate the riches
of nature for his fellow men. He will be long re-
membered as an example of what a public servant
should be in devotion to duty, principles, and in
scrupulous honesty. His influence in the state
park movement has had its effect throughout the
entire nation, thus enriching materially the country
of his adOption, for which he had real affection.

Junior Nature Leaders Today and
Tomorrow

(Continued from page 125)

Scouts, Camp Fire Girls and other youth organi-
zations have been allowed to “sit in” on the course.
Some adults who were interested in improving
their appreciation of the outdoors have also at-
tended. Subsequently a number of these adults
have made valuable contributions in nature lead-
ership in their communities. This suggests some

possible value in extending this sort of program to
the adult held.

Why Have Training Courses?

Why, it may be asked, is the National Capital
Parks interested in junior nature leadership
courses? The thousands of school children inv
volved constitute an important element among the
patrons of the local park areas. If their apprecia-
tion of park values can be stimulated through a
keener understanding of natural history, not only
will their lives and the lives of other members
of their family be enriched, but it is also hoped
that they will be encouraged to greater enjoyment
and better use of these areas. This should logi—
cally result in a more personal sense of steward-
ship for the parks with an increasing restraint on
vandalism—a number one problem in many parks.
It will also tend to minimize the current problem
of juvenile delinquency.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS . 165

     
 

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of 2

TENNIS NETS

and other sport nets are not being

manufactured now. But when they
are once more available AUGUR'S

 
 

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, March 1944
The Seashore Comes to the City, Henry D. Schubert
Start Reconditioning Now, Part 2, Wesley Bintz
Teaching the Adult Non-Swimmer, Part 2, Robert
Royer
Camping, April 1944
Camp Reading for Boys and Girls, Margaret M.
Clark
More Purposeful Camp Aquatic Programs, Carroll
L. Bryant
Needed: More Camps for Children, Katherine F.
Lenroot
AJReading List for (Camp) Counselors, Barbara E.
0y
Hygeia, May 1944 ‘

' Walkin for Health, Geor e Weinstein - - . . .
‘The Journalg of Health and Pfysical Education, '12 pp' smgle copies Wlthout Charge' Quantltles 5

will be, as it has always been, the
reliable Sport Net Headquarters.

'w. A. AUGUR. Inc.

35 FULTON STREET NEW YORK

 

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation
(Continued from page 151)

April 1944 o . cents per copy postpaid. Veneer Association 616
I Ca§1u%inManagment and Its Implications, Robert 8. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Rope Jumping, Theresa Anderson
They Go to School on Saturday, Howard G. Danford
Junior League Magazine, May 1944

On the Washington Front, Eleanor Hard Lake
Help for the Handicapped, Jayne Hutton Mason

“Weather, Knowing the,” by T. Morris Long-
streth. $1 Macmillan Company, New York.

“Weather Knowledge, The How and Why of,”
by F. W. Reichelderfer. 153 pp. Illustrated. Free.

l SnIIDall Project—Big Rewards, Cynthia Goodhart
letz
I New Jersey Municipalities, April 1944
Juvenile Problems, Police Chief Fred A. Rofi, Mor-
ristown, N. J.
l Parks and Recreation, March-April 1944
Grand Forks (N. D.) Victory Garden Corps, Mrs.
' M. B. Kannowski
Tree Management in Recreation Areas, A. Robert

Thompson
The Physical Educator, April 1944

Alphabetized and Graded List of Games for Ele-
mentary Boys and Girls, Karl W. Bookwalter and
Edna F. Monro

I Survey Midmonthly, April 1944 "
Entertaining Sick Soldiers, Walter F. Grueninger
Planning for Youth, Neva R. Deardorff
Youth Leaders Digest, March 1944
Let Youth Speak, Philip L. Seman

A Psychiatrist Looks at the Zoot Suit, Ralph S.

Banay, M. D.

PAM PH LETS

Day Camping—A Wartime Asset
Division of Recreation, Federal Security Agency,
Washington, D. C.
Directory of Park and Recreation Activities
Hartford Park Department, 550 Main Street, Hart-
. ford, Connecticut
Famous Slugger Year Book 1944
Hillerich and Bradsby Company, Louisville, Kentucky
l Food Fights for Freedom '

U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. .

Hiking Adventures
l Division of Recreation, Department of Public Parks
and Recreation, Louisville, Kentucky
How to Set Up a Summer Recreation Program
OHice of Community War Services, Division of
Recreation, Washington, D. C.
Juvenile Court Statistics, 1943, Preliminary Statement
Children’s Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor,
Washington, D. C.
A Physical Fitness Demonstration for Independence Day
Committee on Physical Fitness, Washington 25, D. C.

lUNE 1944

Weather Bureau, Department of Commerca.

Teen Age Centers—
A Bird's-Eye View

LARGE CITIES and small
communities throughout America are giving
special attention to youth recreation programs.
Youth centers are springing up everywhere.
How are these centers initiated and operated?
Who pays the bills? How far do the young
people themselves have a voice in the planning
and management?

The National Recreation Association has
received information about approximately a
hundred of these centers, and has attempted,
in a pamphlet entitled Teen Age Centers ——a
Bird’s-Eye View, to summarize what has been
done in different cities, and to make some
suggestions as to the organization and opera-
tion of youth centers on the basis of the
experiences reported.

Price 10 cents

National Recreation Association
3|5 Fourth Avenue, New Yorlr IO, N. Y.

 

166

 

   
 

IS A VERY important letter in
this war. .

It’s the name of the “Tar
Bonds you buy—“\Var Sav—
ings Bond Series E.”

As you know, a Series E Bond will work for you
for ten full years, piling up interest all that time,
till finally you’ll get four dollars back for every

 

three you put up. Pretty nice.

The first job of the money you put into “E”
is, of course, to help finance the war. But it also
gives you a wonderful way to savc money.

And when the war is over, that money you now
put away can do another job, can help America
swing over from war to peace.

There’ll come a day when you’ll bless these
Bonds—when they may help you over a tough
spot.

That’s why you should hang on to every Bond you
buy. You can, of course, cash in your Bonds any
time after you’ve held them for 60 days. You get
all your money back, and, after one year, all your
money plus interest.

But when you cash in a Bond, you end. its life
before its full job is done. You don’t give it its

chance to help you and the country in the years
that lie ahead. You kill off its $4-for—every—$3
earning power.

All of which it’s good to remember when you

\\

might be tempted to cash in some of your W'ar
Bonds. They are yours, to do what you want with.

But . . . it’s ABC sense that . . .

They’ll do the best job for you and for America if
you let them reach the full flower of maturity! I

WAR BONUS 10 Have and to Hold

The Treasury Department acknowledges with appreciation the publication of this message by

RECREATION

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Books, Children and Men

By Paul Hazard. Translated by Marguerite Mitchell.
The Horn Book, Inc., Boston. $3.00.

RITTEN BY A MEMBER Of the French Academy, this

book presents a comprehensive analysis of the dis-
tinctive national traits of children’s literature. In it Pro-
fessor Hazard writes of countries which he has visited
and of whose literature he has first-hand knowledge. It is
a delightful volume for all interested in books and in
children.

.\

Institutions Serving Children

By Howard W. Hopkirk. Russell Sage Foundation, New
York. $2.00.

‘ MR. HOPKIRK’s experience as director Of recreation,

cottage father and as superintendent of an institu-
tion for dependent children, together with his sympa-
thetic and practical treatment of the subject, has made this
book a very significant contribution to a field which
suffers from a lack of published material. The *book is
divided into four sections, all of which have been de-
veloped in some detail—Part One, “Place Of the Institu-
tions”; Part Two, “The Staff”; Part Three, “Structure:
Organizational and Physical”; and Part Four, “Care of
the Child.” Throughout Mr. Hopkirk emphasizes the
importance of play. In his chapter on “Education and
Training of the Child” recreation holds an important
place.

25 Non-Royalty Holiday Plays

Compiled by M. Jagendorf. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $2.50.

IN THIS BOOK will be found a collection Of plays de-
signed to give boys and girls dramatic material to com-
memorate great events at home, in school, club, camp, or
theater. There are plays for practically all the holidays,
for Mother’s Day, graduation, Book Week, Red Cross

\Veek, and a new holiday—a holiday just for fun!

Heel and Toe or a Do-Si-Do

Compiled by Grace H. Johnstone. $.75. ’

IN' THIS BOOKLET Miss Johnstone has given us a collec-
tion of recreation mixers, squares and folk dances,
which recreation workers will be glad to have. Complete
musical score and full description of thirty-three recrea-
tional dances are given. The catalogue numbers Of vic—
trOla records available for the dances are listed, and
there are a glossary of square dance terms and a supple-
mentary reference list. The booklet is available through
the National Equipment Service, Girl Scouts, Inc., 155
East 44th Street, New York City, or through Miss

Johnstone at 1341 Josephine Street, Berkeley 3, Cali—
fornia.

JUNE 1944

Ship Model Building

By$2Gée3ne Johnson. Cornell Maritime Press, New York.

HERE IS A BOOK which has been written and illustrated
for the novice. In simple text and more than 750
illustrations and photographs, the author has detailed all
the processes involved in model building on an inexpen-
sive 'basis. There are suggestions for homemade tools

and devices, improvised substitutes that challenge gradu-
ally develOping craftsmanship.

Living with Music

By David Barnett. George W. Stewart, Publisher, Inc.,
New York 18. $1.50.

THIS HELPFUL LITTLE BOOK is based on the theory that

the ability tO produce music is as native to everyone
as the ability to speak. It insists that music is not for a
few but for everyone, and that musical compositions and
vocal and instrumental performances should Ibe taught to
all for personal satisfaction.

Fitting the Back Yard Playground

Popular Mechanics Press, 200 East Ontario Street,
Chicago. $.25. .

THE DIRECTIONS are given in this pamphlet for a variety
Of playground equipment—two playhouses, a ferris
wheel, roller coaster, treadmill, play store, slide, and
two merry-go—rounds.
This publication is only one of a series of almost a
hundred booklets com-prising “The Little Library Of

Useful Information” issued ‘by the Popular Mechanics
Press.

The American Singer

Book Two. Compiled by John  Beattie, Josephine
Wolverton, Grace V. Wilson, and Howard Hinga.
American Book Company, New York. $.96.

THERE ARE ABOUT 150 SONGS and singing games. for
children in this collection, which is addressed tO the

children themselves and contains a number of songs com-
posed by boys and girls.

Penland Pottery-Handbook

Penland School of Handicrafts, Penland, North Caro-
lina. $1.00.

HIS HANDBOOK, in mimeographed form, gives inter-
esting information regarding the historical develop—
ment Of pottery as well as directions for making articles.
It is one of a series on crafts of various kinds issued in
bulletin for'm. Information regarding the bulletins and

the cost of securing them may be obtained from Gertrude
D. Ross, Penland, North Carolina.

167

168 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Organizing to Help the Handicapped.
A Brief Guide for Voluntary Association for the

Crippled. By T. Arthur Turner. National Society

for Crippled Children, Inc., Elyria, Ohio'. Cloth,
$1.00; paper, $.50.

Of special interest to recreation workers are the chap-
ters on special projects for the sheltered and homebound,
and summer camps. Other chapters deal with Federal-
state programs for crippled children, the employment of
the handicapped, community health and the prevention of
handicaps, legislation, and similar su'bjects.

“Together We Sing.”

Compiled by Louise Grant. Music arranged :by Cecily
Lambert. The Boston Music Company, Boston,

M assachusetts. $.75.

There are twelve choruses for mixed voices in this
book which have come from friendly neighbors all over
the world. Latin America, the South Pacific area, and
Europe are all represented in this collection which also
contains a program, “The Fiesta,” which utilizes all the

songs in a dramatic way.

Campfire and Trail.

By Edgar L. Hewett. The University of New Mexico
Press, Albuquerque. $2.00. '

For forty years Dr. Hewett, archaeologist, museum
builder and teacher, has followed ancient trails and high-
ways ‘by whatever means of locomotion were available.
On his travels he haS’ met with many stirring adventures
and interesting experiences. By'a thousand and one
campfires he has jotted down philosophic reflections in
his diary, and from these voluminous notes he has given

us twenty-three brief chapters.

It’s Fun to Draw.

Edited 'by Alan D. Bogorad. Knickenbocker Pub-
lishing Company, 120 Greenwich Street, New York 6.

$1.00.

In bringing together this material, compiled by a'num-
ber of different artists, Mr. Bogorad has presented in one
concise, inexpensive volume a great deal of practical in-
formation not usually included in the art school cur-
riculum. The various chapters cover cartooning, letter-
ing, elements Of advertising art, col-or in art, drawuig
illustrations, and similar subjects. One chapter is devoted
to “Fun in Art” and includes a number of games for

children and adults.

Negro Youth in City YMCAs.

National Council of Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciations, 347 Madison Avenue, New York 17. $1.00.

The availability and use of city Y.M.C.A. serv1ceS
amon-g Negro youth is the main theme of this report of
a special committee appointed to studyothis Situation.
Although its chief value is for local City Y.M.C.A._s
there are several sections on general community condi-
tions of interest to community recreation workers and
others interested in Negro needs and services. One chap-
ter is devoted to factors unfavorable to good community
relationships between white and Negro groups and another
to favorable factors. The lack of adequate recreation
facilities is reported as. having a definite affect on the
attitude of Negroes toward the community. Community

centers are favorably mentioned as contributing to inter-
racial good will.

Camp Memory Books.

Millar Publishing Company, 538 South Wells Street,
Chicago 7, Illinois. In quantities of 25, each $.25.

This ingenious publication provides opportunity for
the camper to record happenings and events at camp this

summer. Space is provided for a camp log, and for,

pictures and autographs.

Leadership of Girl Scout Troops.

Program Division, Girl Scouts, 155 East 44th Street,
New York 17. $.50. I

This book, addressed to leaders of Girl Scouts from
ten through fourteen, is designed to help make their jobs
“interesting and rewarding.” It should go far toward ac-
complishing its objectives, for it is full of interesting
suggestions regarding things to do and how to do them.
While intended for the use of Girl Scout leaders, recrea-
tion workers will profit both from the philosophy Of the
'book and the practical applications of this philosophy
which are suggested.

“BeqUest of Wings"— A Family's
Pleasures with Books.

By Annis Duff. The Viking Press, New York. $2.00.

This is a delightful book about ibooks and about living.

In brief, it is an account of how a family lives with its
books and how books live with their family.

Popular Mechanics Shop Notes 1944.

Volume Forty. POpular Mechanics Company, 200
East Ontario Street, Chicago. $.50.

This is the fortieth annual collection of outstanding
ivorkshop hints and practical ideas of special value and
interest to the craftsman, home owner, experimenter, and
shop worker. It is a book for every man who uses tools.

Pictorial Guide to Machine Shop Practice.

By H. Grisbrook and C. Phillipson. Emerson Books,
Inc., New York. $1.50.

The basic principles of machine shop practice are pre-
sented simply and clearly. A series of drawings, illus-
trating the right and the wrong way of performing an
Operation, make up the greater part of the 'book. Al-
though the |book consists largely of such illustrations,
their captions form a text of concise, easy-tO-understand
instructions. In addition, there are valuable notes on

general workshop procedure, the handling of machine
tools. and Similar matters.

 

 

OEcers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President
JOHN G. WiNANT, First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MiLLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board

SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAvUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, MaSS.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.

HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER, Jacksonville, Fla.

MRs. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.

AUSTiN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, FitChhurg, Mass.

MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.

MRS. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, Ind.

MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, MaSS.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MiLLi KEN, Augusta. Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodhury, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y. -
REDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

I

RECREATION

