600 Billion!

SIX HUNDRED BILLION unthinkable? Yes!

And yet Hitler has cost the world more than half a trillion dollars, more
than six million men’s lives.

Under compulsion the people of the world, common and uncommon, spend
six hundred billion dollars for destruction.

When all this destruction is ended, then there will be need such as never
before to make this world attractive to live in, to make our homes rich in op—
portunities for real family life, to provide comradeship in the neighborhood, to
have a full measure of joy‘ in our churches, to make our cities truly beautiful.

There are memories of horror to be forgotten, there are long nights of anxiety,
there are days of waiting not longer to be remembered.

Only by making daily life rich and deep and full of a note of victory can
old memories be driven out and the eyes turned toward the light of a new day
and the will to live and live Victoriously be made strong for all—no matter
what each man may have seen, what each man may have heard, what each man
may have been through.

Of course world anarchy must be ended, a basis for righting wrongs estab-
lished. But that is not enough, even though it be hrst.

Surely after victory we———the people of the earth—must find ways of
happiness, ways of growth, ways of building whatever gives permanent and
enduring satisfaction in the lives of men to make up to the generation that has
fought, to the generation of youth, to the generation that is coming into a
partially destroyed world, for all of this devastation and wastage.

Leadership had to be given to destruction. Now are we not equally willing

to give a little leadership to rebuilding the souls of men, to deepening and trying
to make glorious the daily lives of people.

We all are still like children. We want to be happy and strong. It does
not take too much to make us happy.

What matters is for us to care— really care about making a world that
is fairly warm and comfortable to be lived in, a world of beauty and music
and joy.

57

58

If we really care — it is not a matter of paying out such billions of dollars
as we have paid for destruction, though some money is required. It is a matter
of providing a modest amount of leadership right down in the neighborhood
to give the people of our country, particularly the people in our corner of it, a
chance to do for themselves easily and naturally the things they themselves most
want to do.

This making available of leadership for living— community by commu-
nity—cannot be neglected if we want as quickly as may be to remove the spiritual
and mental scars this war will have left.

Recreation land and buildings and facilities are important. But they are not
first. In one state alone after the first world war four hundred recreation build-
ings were built as so—called “living” war memorials. But generally no provision
was made for leadership and in five years many of the centers were very little used.
Right now cities are planning on spending hundreds of millions of dollars in the

postwar period for recreation lands, buildings and facilities.

There must be equally outstanding provision for leadership or to that extent
the expenditures will be ineffective.

Better leadership without buildings than buildings without leadership.

There is a new culture waiting to come in America. There is beauty wait-
ing to be seen. There is music waiting to be sung and heard. There is comrade-
ship that leaves rich memories. There are creeks to. be skated, rivers to be swum.
lakes to be sailed, games and sports to be enjoyed,“ rich and satisfying living to be
discovered if only a very small fraction of what we have been forced to spend for
destruction can be set aside for leadership in recreation for bringing joy and
strength to us all. I

Destruction has been on an unprecedented scale.

May it not be well that building of satisfactory daily living should following
this destruction also be on a scale not known before.

Mere existence in a bleak world is no longer enough for any of us.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

MAY I944

 

RECREATION

More About: Last Summer's Playgrounds

adopting themes for their

summer playground pro-
grams around which activities
along many lines are built.
This is proving in many com-
munities a successful method
of sustaining the interest of
the children in the activities
of the playgrounds through-
out the summer.

INCREASINGLY cities are

Summer Playground Themes

Thirteen‘playgrounds of Waterloo, Iowa, car-
ried out the United Nations theme which was
adopted in the city last summer. During the play-
ground staff training institute held the week before
the playgrounds opened, playground directors and
play leaders helped plan the program for the
summer.

After the United Nations theme was chosen,
nine weekly titles were selected which related to
this theme. Throughout the summer there was a
l variety of activities, including games and sports,
' crafts, singing, storytelling, dramatics, nature
‘ games, movies, war stamp sales and many other
' activities which were related in one way or another
to this general plan.

The season opened with
Good Neighbor Weekl June

14-19, which served as a

It was impossible to publish in the
April issue of RECREATION. the special
playground issueI all of the material
which you sent us about last summer's
playgrounds. So here is additional in-
formation regarding activities and ad-
ministration which we hope will be help-
ful to you in planning your program.

The playground children of Chester' Pa..
gave expression to their good will toward
neighbors in other lands through their
last summer's pageant. "Americans AIL'I

“get acquainted” time with
movies and flag displays part
of the program. Sports and
Games Week, June 21-26,
included baseball games, ath-
letic tests and tournaments of
all kinds.
For Music and Dance Weekl
June 28-July 3, there were
_ ' musical programs, folk dances,
and singing. T 0 give added meaning to Patriotism
Week, July 5—9, the Hags of the United Nations
were flown with the American flag on all thirteen
playgrounds. War stamp sales were also part of
the week’s activities.

Dramatics Week, July 12-17, featured storytell-
ing, talent night, and many plays and 'skits. Dur-
ing Hobby Week, July 19-24, pet shows, model
aircraft exhibits, and hobby shows were held on
each playground. Nature treasure hunts, flower
arrangement contests, campfires, nature hikes, and
leaf identification contests were some of the activi-
ties carried out for the Nature Week program,
July 26-31.

With the coming of Crafts Weekl August 1-7,
the playgrounds held exhibits of articles made of
leather, cork, clay, reeds, paper, and other ma-
terials. The final week,
August 9-14, was the occas-
sion of neighborhood fun
programs, picnics, and tours.

 

I MAY 1944

59

60 MORE ABOUT LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS

Thus by sending craft articles to the boys in
service, by flag-raising ceremonies, by buying war
stamps, by patriotic week observances, by keeping
fit and healthy through games and sports, and by
becoming better informed through stories, discus-
sions and War Information films, Waterloo play-
grounds last summer made it possible for the
town’s boys and girls to share in the united war

effort.

One of the highlights in the quest by the play-
ground children to know their United Nations
neighbors better was the making of thirteen na—
tions’ fiags. Each playground during the first week
selected the one nation it would represent. ,

After some discussion of that country, the flag
was studied, a scale drawn up, and a three by five
flag made by the boys and girls. The result was
that thirteen United Nations flags flew with thir-
teen United States flags on the playgrounds. Many
children learned to recognize several flags and all
learned at least one other than the United States
flag.

In Wyoming Valley, Pennsylvania. Each year the
summer playground program conducted by the
Playground and Recreation Association of Wyo-
ming Valley is outlined in such a way that all of
its activities lead up to the final playground pag-
eant. Songs, dances, and crafts are all related to
the general theme.

In 1942 the pageant took the form of a parade
of the South American countries, closing with a
kind of Mardi gras with dancers, venders and
other performers. About 3,000 children took part
in this colorful event which won much favorable
comment.

In 1943 there were four neighborhood pageants
each of which was held on a large Open field near
or on a central playground where five or six near—
by playgrounds gathered. The band and choir
made up from children from all the playgrounds
provided music for all the pageants. The “Pageant
of Flags,” as it was called, was very effective, with
the children of each playground carrying the flag
of the country they represented.

Although the plan of having neighborhood pag—
eants grew out of the wartime restrictions on
travel, the Association felt that these neighborhood
celebrations were, on the whole, more satisfactory
than the plan of having one pageant in a central
place.

Decafur's Playground Rodeo. The theme of the
"all-playground gathering in Decatur, Illinois, last

year was the Rodeo. With a bright scarf about
the neck, a gay belt or a big hat, boys and girls
were transformed into “Deadwood Dick” or "Nell"
of the Old \Vest ranch days.

Before leaving their playgrounds for the Nor’-
west Bar Ranch (Northwest Playground) where
the rodeo was held, the children selected a name
for their ranch by which they were identified
throughout the day. The midday meal was pre—
pared over the open fire in large iron kettles. The
children provided the vegetables for the stew, and
each child brought a bowl, Spoon, and bread and
butter sandwiches.

The program consisted of track and field events,
storytelling, singing, and rodeo special events such
as horse and rider races, bronco busting, horse and
rider ball. The boy and girl most nearly repre-
senting a real cowboy and cowgirl reigned as king
and queen for the day.

Arts and Crafts

Arts and crafts are a very important part of the
recreation program conducted by the Department
of Public Recreation in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
and careful preparation goes into the planning of
the program. Following a period of thorough
study of possible materials and projects, the play-
ground directors last summer planned and sub-
mitted to the Superintendent of Recreation an
eight week craft program. After the plan had been
studied a list of craft material necessary for each
playground was compiled, and detailed proced—
ures with working drawings were mimeographed
in bulletin form. A finished sample of each craft
described in the bulletin was made by the super-
visor for use in the training institute which pre—
ceded the playground season. During the institute
the crafts described in the bulletin were demon-
strated, and materials were made available for each
leader to make samples for his playground. A
bulletin was provided for each director for use as
reference material. A craft exhibit was held on
individual playgrounds, and at the end of the sea-
son a city—wide exhibit was set up.

Storytelling

The children’s story hour is a new feature of
the program being developed by the Department'
of Public Recreation of Danville, Illinois.

After consultation with parents and grade schofSl
teachers, who were heartin in favor "of the pro-
posed plan, the Department approached the Dan-
ville Public Library and obtained permission to

RECREATION

MORE ABOUT LJS'I' SUJ-IJIER’S PLAYGROUNDS ()1

a

 

The Public Library of Danville. Illinois.
is cooperating with the Department of Pub-

use as a storytelling center
two large rooms in the
basement of the building.
Here from 4:00 to 5:00 on Thursday afternoon
every other week stories are told the children by
Mrs. Katherine Randolph, an experienced story-
teller who is director of dramatics on the summer
playgrounds. -

At the first session held early in March there
were 400 children; at the second, 493. The De-
partment is now looking about for a larger place
in which to hold the sessions.

“This program has meant a lot to our Depart-
ment,” writes Sam Basan, Superintendent of Rec-
reation, “and we have made friends of parents who
never before realized there was a recreation de-
partment in the city.”

Mr. Basan adds: “We are feeling our way and
hope to bring into the program puppets and drama
by boys and girls, and even movies of children’s
stories.”

The VVorklawn Storytellers’ League of Berks
County, Pennsylvania, last summer volunteered to
cover all the playgrounds regularly to tell stories.
The Recreation Department furnished transporta-
tion for these storytellers, who have also co—
operated in the training institute of the County and

MAY 1944

He Recreation in its storytelling program

are themselves training
storytellers for the play—
grounds.

Lantern Parades

Lantern parades have become a tradition in
Decatur, Illinois, not only with the children of the
playgrounds but with the townspeople who each
year look forward to the event. Last summer the
lantern parade and float contest was the ninth to
be held.

“The making of lanterns,” states the bulletin
issued by the Department of Public Recreation, “is
not expensive for the results obtained. Scraps of
cardboard, boxes, bits of colored paper, old dis-
carded candles, and a few paints are all that are
needed. The results in pleasure and beauty far
exceed the expenditures of time, effort, and money.”

The following suggestions were offered by the
Department:

Construction. Fold a piece of paper in eights
and cut in on the folded edges; open end and you
have an original design. Trace the design on
cardboard and cut out.

Pictures of flowers, animals, emblems, etc., may
be painted on thin paper and pasted over square

or oval openings.

62 MORE ABOUT LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS

Types of Design

Halloween Formal design

Christmas Geometric design
Patriotic Ships

Animal Airplanes

Floral Mother Goose rhymes
Sports Aquatic

Valentine Cathedral windows

It was also suggested that in addition to other
lanterns each playground make lanterns which
spell out the name of the playground and that each
have a large brilliantly lighted float at least 2’ x 3’.
These floats were constructed in such a way that
they would float on Dreamland Lake, where with
their lights and the lights arranged around the
bank of the lake, a beautiful effect was secured.

0
Music

One of the outstanding features of the 1943
playground program in VVilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania, was the playground band of 50 pieces and
chorus of I 50 voices. These
groups were trained by two
regular supervisors of music

There was an attendance of over l00.000
people at _the concerts held last summer

in the public schools who served on the summer
playground staff.

In San Francisco’s Sigmund Stern Grove is a
beautiful g'lade about a hundred feet below the
street level, sheltered by a thick stand of eucalyptus
trees. This natural amphitheater was the scene
last summer of a series of fourteen concerts pre-
sented by the Sigmund Stern Grove Music Festival
Committee under the sponsorship of the San Fran-
cisco Recreation Commission. More than 100,000
people attended these .concerts. The concert on
September 12th, the Ballet Matinee, featured the
dance and music groups of the Commission.

A Child Checking Service

One of the wartime activities of the Cleveland,
Ohio, Division of Recreation was the child check—
ing station set up last spring as the city’s contri-
bution to the Victory Youth Activities Week. This
miniature playground, equipped with a tent, a sand
pile, table crafts, a slide, a
teeter-totter, swings and toy

(Continued on page 103)

in Sigmund Stern Grove. San Francisco

{

 

a";  i   i490:

I
Q

l.

5

RECREATION

- Community and Family Nights

OMMUNITY AND FAMILY NIGHTS are assum-
C ing greater importance in the recreation pro-
gram than ever before as communities are
coming to realize that one of the causes of juvenile
delinquency is lack of adequate family life and the
absence of the feeling of “belonging” which is so
essential to the child and the adolescent.
Marquette, Michigan, is one of the cities which
is doing something about it through the encour-

agement, under the auspices of the Department of '

Parks and Recreation, of a monthly Family Night
when the family will stay together and enjoy rec-
reation activities. Places of amusement and re-
freshment in the city are cooperating to the extent
‘ of admitting only family groups to their establish-
ment, and some owners of these places are going
as far as to close their doors to go home to their
own families! Public and private organizations
are postponing meetings scheduled on the specified
nights in order to cooperate.

It is impossible to measure the results of such
a project, but favorable comments indicate that in
most cases it is a huge success. It is interesting to
learn of the variety of activities which different
families carry on. Some go to the movies; others
go skating or skiing; some stay home and play
games; and some “just read.” A few actually have
parties, with refreshments and presents as well.
Most of the families end their evening with some
kind of refreshments which make the occasion a
truly festive one.

The Department of Parks and Recreation has
issued a list of suggested games and activities for
families to use in planning their nights. These sug—
gestions reach the public through the daily paper
which is doing much to encourage the project.

The results of Family Night may not be im-

mediate, but ultimately they are certain to prove

satisfactory.
\

Community Nights in Long Beach

“Community Varieties,” a successful family
night entertainment, was staged last November by
the Recreation Commission of Long Beach, Cali—
fornia, at the Polytechnic High School Auditorium
in that city. This was not the first experience of
the Recreation Commission in the field of com-
munity stage programs, although it was the first
to include the co-sponsorship of another group.

MAY 1944

Marquette. Michigan, is sponsoring a series
of family nights to encourage families of the
city to spend at least one designated night
together each month. getting acquainted and
enjoying recreation activities. "This does not
mean that the family has to stay at home as
long as they stay together," says Jean Ohman,
assistant recreation director of the Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation, who describes
the project for us.

The Long Beach, California, Recreation Com-
mission is presenting "Community Varieties"
as its community night feature' and local talent
is making its contribution to the program.

a

In planning, publicizing, and presenting this pro-
gram the Commission had .the.assistance of the
Long Beach Junior Chamber of Commerce as co-
sponsors.

The program included a violin choir from the
Woman’s Symphony Orchestra of Long Beach, a
boys’ glee club from Jordan High School, a fifteen-
piece swing band made up of high school boys
who play like professionals, a pianist of national
reputation who is at present wearing a Coast Guard
uniform, singing-sisters numbers, and a dance and
baton act. The audience was led in a short session
of community singing. Admission was free. The
audience showed appreciation of the program by
generous applause through which they registered
a very definite affirmative vote on the question of
making the entertainment a regular event on a
monthly basis. The next program was set for a
date in January, with December omitted because
of the number of long-established holiday enter-
tainment features scheduled.

An important factor in the success of the pro—
gram was the close cooperation of school and mu-
nicipal personnel with the co—sponsoring group—-
cooperation made possible and practicable by the

coordinated recreation plan in operation in Long
Beach. ‘

The organization set up to carry out the com—
munity varieties idea included an executive com-
mittee and subcommittees for program, publicity,
and stage management. Chairmen of the sub-
committees served on the executive committee, and
appointments were divided between the Recreation

63

64 COMMUNITY AND FAMILY NIGHTS

Commission staff and the Junior Chamber of Com-
merce members.

This type of program has been featured monthly
at three community Clubhouses, and the weekly
program on Monday nights at the Municipal Audi-
torium has been a popular public entertainment
sponsored by the Recreation Commission for fif—
teen years. The programs are divided into three
parts. First, a half hour of community singing led
by volunteer directors and utilizing illustrated
projection slides; second, a stage program which
varies from week to week with schools, dance and
dramatic groups and musical organizations sup—
plying the talent; finally, about two hours of old-
time square dancing. The square dancing is greatly
enjoyed by middle—aged and elderly residents.

All the community night programs have been
well attended, but the Monday night programs at
the Municipal Auditorium hold the local record,
averaging 2,500 a week year after year.

Brieiiy, the purpose which the Recreation Com—
mission has in mind in sponsoring community pro-
grams is twofold. There is, of course, the funda—
mental desire to provide enjoyable entertainment
of a nature which can be attended by entire family
groups and which draws the residents of the sev—
eral sections of the city closer together. Then there
is the objective of affording amateur local talent
an Opportunity to appear before audiences and thus
have the satisfaction of developing skills and
talents. A third reason which might be stated be-
cause that is the way it works out in practice is
the provision of a ready means for general co-
operation between many civic and private groups
of the city who enjoy making a contribution to the
public recreation of the community.

Fun Nights in Houston

Even babies are welcome at Fun Night in Hous—
ton’s North Side Community, for a nursery keeps
them safe and comfortable for the evening while
other members of the family are busy playing
games, singing, dancing and
attending craft classes.

Fun Night in the North
Side Community is spon-
sored by a Community Ad—
visory Committee, assisted
by representatives from par—
ent—teacher associations,
churches and schools of the
community, Boy Scouts,
Girl Scouts, the Parks and

Another city

which is promoting family
and community nights is Houston' Texas.
Here an enterprising group of people in
North Side Community. where there are few
recreation centersl arranged to open John
Marshall Junior High School every Friday
night from 7:00 to 9:00.

Every resident of the section who feels
the urge to enjoy an evening of fun and

good fellowship is invited to attend and mUSiC-
to take a hand in planning the program.

Recreation Department, Y.W.C.A., Y.M.C.A.,

Council of Social Agencies, and the Crime Pre—
vention Bureau. ..

“Fun Night belongs to you,” reads the invita—
tion. “For everyone except the babies there will
be something different each week in movies, ama-
teur talent, talks, music, and whatever you like.
This is your community fun night. Help make it
yours by joining in the fun on Fridays and by
becoming a member of the advisory council to plan
the program.”

Here is a typical program for the entire family:

.. For Children

Games for Boys (7 :00-8 :00). Lots of fun and all sorts
of activities under good leadership.

Games for Girls (7:00-8 :00). A leader who knows
how will keep the fun going.

A Story Hour (8 :00-9 :00). A storyteller to bring you-
both old and new favorites.

Library. Open all evening if you want to read or just
browse.

For Adults

The Program Hour (8:00-9 :00). Movies, talks on
subjects of interest, community singing can be ar-
ranged depending upon interest of the group. If you
have ideas or requests, talk to the committee.

Table Games 0:00-9:00). Checkers, chess, cards, and
similar games.

Homemaking Class. A chance to get expert instruction
and interesting discussions concerning problems of
the home—victory menus, budgets in wartime, child
care.

Citizenship Class (7200-9 :00). For those who want to
take out citizenship papers—sympathetic and skilled
teachers to prepare persons for the examinations and
to answer all sorts of questions involved in becoming
a citizen of the United States.

For I'Teen-Agers"

Social Games for all Teen-Ayers (7:00-8:00). A party
every time for all who want to join in some really
good fun.

Fm» Dancing (8:00-9 :00). Social dancing, folk danc-

ing or instructions in dancing (if that’s what you
like). A 10 cent charge per
evening to pay for music.

Art for Fun (7200-8 :00). For
beginners and open to all who
want to play at painting,
sketching, block printing.

Music for Fun (7:00-8 :00). For
beginners -—~— open to all -——-
singing songs and getting
acquainted with new and old

More Art (8:00-9:00). For

RECREATION

COMMUNITY AND FAMILY NIGHTS 65

 

those who have had some
experience but want more
in sketching, painting,
block printing.

.11 are Music (8 :00-9:00). Choral 'singing, string band, or
just more good songs, as you wish.

Crafts and Handwork (7:00-9:00). All kinds of things
to do with your hands—leather work, wood work,
Indian crafts-—-you name it. Charge for cost of ma—
terials only.

Puppets (7:00-9:00). Making and operating those little
actors of the stage. The groups can put on plays or
just play—as they wish.

Boys" Basketball and Volley Ball (7:00-8:00). A good
time for any boy interested in these sports. A 25 cent
charge for three months.

Indianapolis Initiates “Family Nites”

In Indianapolis, “F amily Nites” featured novelty
relays and games in which the whole family could
take part—volley ball, softball, and kickball for
father and son, or mother and daughter, com-
munity'sings, amateur hours (child and adult),

MAY 1944

Armed with picnic basket and game equipment.
this Long BeachI California. family is headed
for the recreation area for an evening of fun

and basket suppers.
Adults were encouraged
by the Park Department
to use the lighted playgrounds, which were open
until II :00 P. M., and to organize teams in games
of various kinds.

Twilight Programs in a West Coast City

In an effort to increase neighborhood recreation
programs for family groups, special twilight pro-
grams were arranged last summer at a number of
the play areas maintained by a California city.
Residents of each district were brought into the
organization to work with area directors in plan—
ning activities and providing leadership. Picnic

suppers, followed by a program of sports and
games, were regular features of these get-togethers.
Where buildings were available for the purpose,
indoor stage programs and socials sometimes fol-
lowed the outdoor program.

Good Neighbors All

By VIRGINIA Fox

HE CHILDREN of the Lincoln
Park Community Center,
Denver, Colorado, paid a
nine week “visit” to the coun-
ti-ies of their Latin Ameri-
can neighbors last summer.
This imaginary journey
was a result of the Center’s
program theme ———- a project
entitled, “Our Good Neigh-
bors South of the Border.”
The last week of the ad—
venture was spent in making
plans for the big fiesta in
which all age groups took part.
The trip, an airplane ride to South America,
began on June 14th and continued every Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday morning for nine weeks.
Several mornings were spent seeing Mexico, Cuba,
Peru, Chile, Argentina, and Brazil. Activities cen-
tered around those programs which would furnish
background to help children understand the people
of Latin America; storytelling, group singing,
group games, music appreciation, and dancing
were all part of their “lessons.”

Mexico the First Stop

The first stop made on the trip was Mexico. and
the background of that country was given through
the telling of stories of the lives, homes, and friends
of Mexican children. History was furnished by
legends of the Aztec Indians. Spanish speaking
children in the group danced the El Jarabe and
Las Chiapanecas for the other children who, in
turn, learned these dances themselves. In the as-
sembly period everyone learned Spanish and Mexi—
can songs.

Divided into small groups, the six and seven
year old children made pottery bowls, drew Mexi-
can flags, and strung macaroni necklaces combin-
ing the Mexican colors. The eight and nine year
olds worked out a large mural on brown paper,
while the ten and twelve year olds modeled a
Mexican market place out of colored plasticene.
And when the journey was over, the children pre—
pared a Mexican luncheon for parents and friends.
Under the supervision of one of the Mexican staff
workers they made tortillas, Spanish rice, and agus
de pina. Mexican hats of construction paper were

66

Director

Lincoln Park Community Center
Denver' Colorado

Lincoln Park Community Center, sponsor
of the Good Neighbor project described

by Miss Fox, is one of the agencies sup-
ported by the Denver, Colorado, Commu-
nity Chest. It is located within the Lin-
coln Park Homes' a housing development
on the city's west side. The Center serves
not only families living in the Homes but
residents of the surrounding neighborhood.

made for place cards at the
tables.

Then on to Other Lands

The trip continued to
Cuba where the group was
given the background from
which they chose to work
out craft projects. One of
the neighborhood girls ex—
hibited authentic Cuban
musical instruments and
danced the conga and”
rhumba for the group. Some
of the children dramatized the story, “Tito, the '
Pig of Guatamala,” while others made and learned
to play Cuban instruments such as tom-toms con—
structed from cocoa and cheese boxes, and tin cans,
maracas made from gourds, and marimbas built
from wood.

In Peru, the children learned about weaving,
making looms first on cardboard and later on
wooden boxes. In Chile they were told about
Inca ceremonials and worked out one. They flew
to Argentina and engaged in similar activities
there.

When the tourists reached Brazil, they were
told interesting legends of the people who had
lived in that country. Older boys made jungle
arrows and worked out a dance through the use of
mimetics, while the girls in this age group also
created a dance using the same medium as the
boys. Their tom-toms were used as accompani:
ment for the dance which was called the “Dance
of the Tortillas.” A younger group selected and
dramatized a jungle story using the first puppets
they had created.

Finally, the Fiesta !

When the journey was over, final preparations
were made the last week for the fiesta. The use
of the outdoor theater for the event'was requested
and granted. The manager of the parks depart—
ment called upon his staff to provide whatever was
needed. A crew of electricians set up facilities for
lighting and the ground crew prepared the out-
door theater.

Adult groups assisted with the costuming.

(Continued on page 105)

RECREATION

Day Camping
l943

ROBLEMS OF TRANSPORTATION, personnel, and

food supplies, along with other difficulties too

numerous to mention, made day camping a
hazardous undertaking last summer. Nevertheless,
a number of successful ventures were reported.

In the District of Columbia

The summer of 1943 constituted a direct chal—
lenge to the Nation’s Capital. It was the hottest
summer in seventy years. The city, with a war-
time increment of servicemen and war workers,
had topped normal population by nearly a quarter
of a million. The demands for increased facilities
and services for young people were greater than
ever. '

The responsibilities involved extended to practi-
cally every department of the District government,
and a large share had descended upon the shoulders
of the Recreation Board. An analysis of conditions
revealed that because of lack of transportation,
shortage of food, and personnel difficulties, many
previously active camps operated by public and
private agencies had failed to open. The camp
problem was obviously on the Board’s doorstep.

There were ways of alleviating conditions—ex-
cellent ways, already well organized and operating
smoothly, the Recreation Board decided. There
were teen age dances on open tennis courts, out—
door sports, an active aquatic program, picnics,
concerts, and special events, all far-reaching and
effective, but there was, undoubtedly, a contribu-
tion pre—eminently reserved for the day camp.

Day camps were not brand new projects in
Washington, but neither their number nor pro-
gram was equal to the present needs. There must
be more diversification of activities. The press and
the community must be solidly
behind them. The value of in-
formative stories and pictures
in the local press became evi—
dent when one early felease in-
creased the enrollment by three
hundred in a single morning.
Eventually the requests for
placement exceeded greatly

MAY 1944

 

Last summer. in spite of tremendous
difficulties, a very successful program
of day camping was conducted in
the District of Columbia. The story
of the camps is told by Cora Wells

Thorpel a member of the adminis-
trative staff ot_ the District of Co-

lumbia Recreation Department.

‘7‘:
\

I g‘ .
III/[II ’1’] ’ I’ll” .5

. u” ’0
“W‘Wx \“ I

all I,”
l - / Q, f"“”<\\\\¢$¢\ I 0

Gedge Harmon

the capacity of the camps which accommodated a
final total of 936.

The Training Program. The support of the com-
munity was the primary objective to which the
camp staff addressed itself. The camp training pro-
gram started one month in advance of the camps
themselves with the dual purpose of orienting the

supervisors who made up the paid and volunteer
camp staff in the line art of camping successfully,
and of familiarizing the general public with the
prospective camp project. As a means of accom-
plishing the latter, the staff inaugurated a series of
personal appearances before the civic organiza-
tions, schools, and churches of the community,
designed through personal contacts to transmit the
message of the camps—to—be to the surrounding
neighborhoods.

The staff training meetings took on the flavor of
the project itself. In the first meeting, which con-
tinued throughout an entire Saturday, enthusiastic
leaders ourneyed from camp site to camp site, ex—
ploring the facilities, wading in the brooks, and
conducting their deliberations while seated on a
convenient log. At a second meeting at the brisk
hour of 7:00 A. M., they prepared an alfresco
breakfast over tin can ovens, which ultimately
served as the favorite} means of cooking through-
out the summer. They were easily procurable,
easily transportable, and unbelievably successful.
Upon the surfaces of these improvised ovens the.
young campers prepared ambitious menus—bacon,
eggs cooked neatly in bread baskets, coffee, fried
apples. The story is told that
on the occasion of a tour of
inspection by the Recreation
Board, the President of the
Board first viewed the tooth-
some and pungent contents of
a kettle simmering over a camp-
fire, observed the potatoes
baked in clay, Hawaiian style,

67

63 DAY CAMPING 1943

the fried apples spluttering on the tin ovens, the
hot ginger-bread, and accepted the camp’s invita-
tion to dinner forthwith!

Opening Day Arrives. Thus carefully planned
and supervised, the camps opened on June 28 with
a bumper registration. Three were conducted
solely by the Recreation Department, two in co-
operation with the Georgetown Neighborhood
Council. Camp sites, selected with due regard to
woods, streams, pools, general accessibility to
transportation, a plentiful supply of good drinking
water, and open spaces for archery, pageantry and
games, were further provided by the National
Capital Parks with fireplaces, temporary sanita-
tion, and water Spigots. The locality was suggested
in the respective names selected: Camp Tah-Ko-
Ma, Oxon Run, Foundry Branch, Fort Dupont,
and Rock Creek Parkway. Each was to run four
two-week periods with the exception of Camp
Rock Creek Parkway, which continued for nine
weeks. An extra dividend was paid in the form of
an additional week at the close of the season,
designated as “Camp Round-Up,” to which only
outstanding campers were bidden. As an incentive
to excellent behavior and camp morale it was un-
surpassed, including as it did, the coveted privi-
lege of a night spent in the cool of the woods.

“You should have seen them!” exclaimed an
enthusiastic camp supervisor, “gathered about a
campfire, the woods vocal with their old favorite:

‘Oh, we’re the kids from Camp (camp name)
And we know how to sing.

And if we do not have a song,

We’ll sing most anything.

It doesn’t have to have a tune

It may not even rhyme,

\Ne’ll sing it for you anywhere,

W e’l-l sing it any time.’

“And how they studied the heaven’s constella-
tions, as wrapped in their serviceable blankets they
stretched out under the stars on their Klondyke
bedsf’

“A happy thought,” observed another leader,
“in keeping camp unity in the program was the
idea of having a theme for each two-week period.
They were Indians, Cowboys, and Pirates during
the summer. A theme gives a camper something
to hang to; his games, songs, dances, and crafts
take on a fuller meaning, even romance. To make
a tin lantern is fun; to make a pirate lantern is
thrilling.

“And, too, there was the healthy rivalry induced
still further by subdividing'the camps. In Tah-

Ko-M a, for the two weeks, the children were Cow-
boys, some boys were “Rattlesnakes,” living on
White-Oak Ranch; other boys were Coyotes on
Diamond-C Ranch, and the younger girls, Prairie
Dogs, on Rocking Chair Ranch. Each ranch had
definite boundaries, a password, and other secrets
which made a greater group loyalty.

Nor was there the old bugaboo of camp “clean-
ups”; intense ranch loyalty ran too high for that,
each group wanting its ranch to look the best. Nor
did group loyalty outweigh camp loyalty. Each
unit assembled for the morning’s flag raising,
shared a common ritual before dispersing to pur-
sue its busy schedule until the close of the after?
noon became the signal for a final hail and fare-
well. Seemingly independent, their days were in
reality closely coordinated. While one unit cooked
one day, another cleaned up and made the camp
shipshape. The care of equipment fell to a third;
the responsibility of making the fires devolved
upon a fourth. .

N 0 phase of campcraft intrigued the young
campers more than the primitive Spell of fire-
making. There were the tepee fires, which burn
fastest; the council fire, the slowest and longest;
the star fire with its big logs ready to be pushed
into place, as they are ignited by the small tepees.

And then there were such imperative duties as
the protection against accident, the care of the
water and Lyster bags, the protection of food, the
remedies for poison ivy, the vast accumulation of
firewood, the disposal of waste, the program for
rainy days which included trips to the Natural
History Museum and the Zoo, the keeping of the
log. Duties, all of them, which had the charm of
novelty and were integrated into a daily schedule
which started with a morning swim followed by
camp songs, and included an active craft program
occupying the intervening hours until the midday
meal.

The allure of crafts was apparently enhanced by
their variety. They were the whittling of wooden
cooking utensils, bowls, spoons, and knives, and
the gathering and sorting of firewood. There were
also burlap sewing, finger painting, puppetry, clay
modeling, mounting of butterflies, construction of
crude band instruments, block printing, knot-tying
and basketry. Such were a few of the absorbing
activities engaging the young campers until the
close of the camp day when in single file—an im-
pressive procession—they marched solemnly home-
ward—eager for the return of another day.

I Some Questions Are Answered. “What are some

RECREATION

DAY CAMPING 1943 69

of the lessons derived from the summer’s experi-
ences ?” the supervisor was asked.

“Of course we should have more leaders,” was
the prompt reply. “We had only one to perhaps
sixteen children. One to eight would be nearer
the ideal proportion. Another year we will syste—
matically canvass colleges, churches, community
organizations, for personnel. High school voca-
l tional advisers and Scout leaders will be ap-
proached this winter with the request that they
watch for dependable young people with ability
to teach, vigorous personalities, outdoor experi-
ence, and craft skills.

“And then, one always needs more equipment——

0 big and small. Scissors and needles, shovels and
saws, green wood for crafts, boxes with locks for
equipment, and wood logs for proper length, where
the camper is too small to chop them.

“The dust raised by the children is always a
‘problem, too.” (Washington had experienced its
dryest season in ninety years.)

“Has irregularity of attend—
ance been a problem ?”’ she was
asked.

“Not to any appreciable ex:-
tent,” was the reply. “Having
far more applications than we
could accommodate, every child
realized that if he were irregu-
lar in attendance he would for-
feit his place.” Day camp ex—
perience has shown that
' average camp attendance is
50 per cent. Our camps had
. an average daily attendance
of 76 per cent.

“And the effect on our
juvenile delinquency prob—
lem ?” we pursued. “As—
suredly,” She smiled, “there-
in lies the day camps’ out—
standing contribution to the
community. Even the youth-
ful marauders, gathered en'-
viously just beyond our
camp frontiers with no good
purpose in mind, when in~
vited to join us became some
of our best campers. The
problem child, too, disap—
peared long before the end
of the two weeks. Those who
whined the first few days

MAY 1944

"To give to children a succession
of new experiences with flowers.
birds and insects, streamsl trees
and clean winds, and with hillsl
plains, and open sky.” This. ac-
cording to the Public Recreation
Department of Decatur is the pur-
pose of the day camping program.

 

were soon busily engaged in some craft ; those who
were ‘the cow’s tail’ at first, were soon abreast of

'the group; those who were overenthusiastic

learned to await their turn, knowing it would come
the sooner because of self-control.”

The supervisor paused and then concluded,
“Children have to learn to love camping. They
have to be taught. Today we are just developing
a course of child education in the out of doors. It
will be reflected in the health, the morale, the
good citizenship of the juvenile population of the
Nation's Capital in mounting proportions as the
years go by. Next year we shall prepare for double
the enrollment.”

Decatur Goes Camping

Last summer the Department of Public Recrea-
tion of Decatur, Illinois, conducted a day camp
program in cooperation with the State Park De-
partment and with the sponsorship of the" Lions
Club of the city. The site of the camp was the
Spitler Woods State Park, ap—
proximately eight miles from
Decatur, where eighty acres of
virgin timberland provided nat-
ural wooded trails and oppor-
tunities for out-of—door activities ‘
such as:

Nature lore Ceremonies
Indian lore. Hiking

Signaling Tracking and trailing
Exploration Safety '
Music Nature craft
Pioneer lore Cooking
Camp craft Blazing
Use of fire Council tire
Rituals Museum
Collections Games
Dramatics Storytelling

The children were sched—
' uled to attend the camp. ac-
cording to age and play-
ground, the age groups
being eight to eleven; eleven
to fourteen. Before any child
was allowed to attend camp,
a permit had to be properly
executed by both parent and
child and filed with the play—
ground or camp director.

The children were picked
up at their respective play—
grounds in carriers provided
by the Recreation Depart-

Gedge Harmon

70 . DAY CAMPING I943

ment which left the playgrounds at 9:00 o’clock,
returning at approximately 5 :00. The children
were asked to provide their own lunches carefully
marked with their names, and each child was as-
signed a portion of the meal to be assembled and
cooked at camp.

Upon arrival at camp, the children were divided
into tribes of from ten to twenty. The time and
activity schedule was made as flexible as possible
in order not to overprogram or overschedule the
camper.

Camp Themes

Two themes were used at camp during the 1943
season. For the first four weeks the program was
built around the cowboy, and the woods became a
“Dude Ranch.” On entering the woods, the camp-
ers assembled at the “Corral” for the roundup,
and there were nature hikes over the Antelope and
Bucktail Trails. The creek winding through the
woods was known as .the
“Wagon Wheel Water Hole,”
and was a popular spot during
trail activities for wading. At
mealtime the cowpunchers and
cowgirls assembled at the trad-
ing post where they were issued
noon rations from the “Chuck
Wagon” and given instructions
in fire building and cooking.

During the second four weeks at camp the Paul
Bunyan theme was followed. “Dude Ranch” was
converted into “Big Onion Camp.” On arrival
campers assembled at “Pyramid Forty,” followed
the Blue Ox and Splinter Cat trails, and had their
noon rations at “Old Joe’s Shanty.”

The camp program was so arranged that the
camper, through a natural continuity of activities,
became familiar with cowboy and Paul Bunyan
lore. The program of activities included nature
lore, signaling, lashing, the making of woodland
gadgets, collecting, exploration, “whittlin’ brands,”
storytelling, singing, log rolling, and roping.

A popular feature of the program was the Chum-
foo nature quest. Participants were given slips of
paper on which were listed the names of at least
ten types of vegetation studied while hiking over
the trails. Children successful in finding and iden-
tifying these specimens became members of the
tribe of Chumfoo. An overnight camp at the end
of the season for Chumfoos was an added incen-
tive for the campers to learn as much as possible
about nature and nature appreciation while at

If you are planning to establish
day camps in connection with your
recreation program. be sure that
you have the practical information
provided in Day Camping, the
booklet published by the National
Recreation Association. 25 cents.

camp. These overnight camping periods were held
on the last four nights of the season.

The Program Schedule

9:30 - 10 :OO—Roundup at “Corral”
l. Explanation of cowboy theme
2. Learning of cowboy songs I
3. “Ride ’Em Cowboy” to determine the camp cow-
puncher and camp cowgirl

4. Reigning cowpuncher and cowgirl selected I
a. Collectors of song sheets '
b. Color bearer and color guards
c. Reader for patriotic poem '

10:00-10:10—Raising of trading post

Gathering of wood and proper laying of log cabin
fire

10 :10 - 10 :20—Flag Ceremonial
Allegiance-—“America”——Reading of patriotic poem——
“God Bless America”

10 :20 - 10 :30—Passing of cups—drinks—washing of hands
Explanation of snoop hike-“nibble box

10:30-11:45—Snoop hike over the Antelope and Buck-
tail Trails

]. Division into cowpunchers and
cowgirls

O

2. Woodland games while “snoop-
ing” such as
a. Curio collector
b. Curious shaped animals
’c. Holding the front
(1. Spot spy

3. Wading in Wagon \Vheel
\Vater Hole

11 :45 - 12 :OO—Washing of hands—drinks
Explanation of proper cooking procedures with sticks
Singing of grace

12:00-12:10—“Come and Git It” at Chuck \Vagon
Distribution of food and milk

12:10 - l :OO—Eating of lunch within the Corral
l. Disposal of garbage _
2. Disposal of paper
3. Remaining lunch and empty milk bottles returned
to Chuck Wagon

l :00 - 2 :00—Rest Period
1. Relaxing on “sougans” under a tree
2. Reading
3. Sketching
4. Whittling brands ‘
S. Storytelling
6. Exploration
7. Collecting I
8. “Chin Music”
9. Signaling
10. Lashing
11. Woodland gadgets

(1 :30 -2:00)——R0ping or Lariat Competition
Horseshoes
Dogie Drivers

RECREATION

DAY CAMPING I943 71

2:00— 3:00—Chumfoo Nature Quest
(Identification of the following) :

Meadow Daisy Hickory Leaf
Locust Leaf Buck Brush
Violet Leaf Maple Leaf
Chumfoo Toothpick Solomon’s Seal
Mayapple Leaf Oak Leaf

3:00-3:10—Explanati0n of the game
—“Dispatch Running” or “Capture
the Flag”
3 :10 — 3 :40 ——- Game — “Dispatch Run-
ning” or “Capture the Flag”
3 :40 — 4 :OO—The Last Roundup
]. Camper Cowpuncher and
Camper Cowgirl bestow Chum-
foo insignia upon Chumfoos
2. Initiation into the Tribe of
Cliumfoos
3. Informal creative dramatics
before respective cowpuncher and cowgirl
4. Hanging of Brands
4:00-4:10—Retreat—Proper folding of the Flag
‘4 :10-4:25—Group singing while equipment is being
packed—circle games
4:25 —4:30—Singing of Taps and Friendship Circle
4:30-5 :OO—Departure from camp-arrival at playground

A City Camp in Long Beach

All the usual and popular camp sites available to
residents of Long Beach, California, are located in
the mountain area a considerable distance from the
city. It was evident last summer that wartime
traveling restrictions would decrease opportuni-
ties for camping for many people. To meet this
situation to some degree, the Recreation Commis—
sion improved an area within the city limits and
placed in charge an experienced camp leader.
Boys from various playgrounds signed up the
groups, and each day camp facilities were assigned
to one of these groups. There was a program of
recreation, but interest was added by scheduling
definite instruction in pitching tents, camp cook-
ing, boating, swimming, and nature hikes. Bus
transportation was provided from the playground,
and a recreation director met the boys at the area
and returned with them at the close of the day.

In this project the Recreation Commission had
the cooperation of other city departments, and
the P.T.A. assisted by donating a fund to help buy
meat for the camp stew. The boys brought vege-
tables from their homes, and each one paid a dime
toward the cost of the chocolate milk which was
distributed daily.

The Recreation Commission joined with the
Y.\V.C.A., Girl Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls in
promoting and sponsoring a day camp program for
girls. Each of the cooperating organizations con-

MAY 1944

 

Gedge H armon

In day camping we attempt to give to
the city child a taste of the ioy of
a summer vacation in the country

ducted activities at its own center, the idea being
to make the plan city-wide as to promotion but
local in relation to the average distance from the
homes of the participants.

A clubhouse located on the beach was made the
center of the Recreation Commission’s activities.
This building, known as Belmont Recreation Cen-
ter, contains a well-equipped craft shop. Hand-
craft became a popular activity. Rhythms and
dramatic classes were organized, and beach activi—
ties were interspersed with other features to add
variety to the program. The attendance at the
centers testified to the success of the plan.

The Walnut Hills Day Camp

Preceding the opening of its Walnut Hills Day
Camp, the Public Recreation Commission of Cin—
cinnati held a training school of counselors to give
these workers a picture of the decentralized camp
and the responsibilities they would have. They
practiced making fires with various kinds of wood
found in the vicinity and thus learned which were
the best. They received instruction in making fire-
places, in crafts of various kinds, and in nature
recreation.

The camp opened on August 16th with a group
of campers from the basin area—the poorer sec-
tion of the city. The camp was divided into four
units, with a counselor, and not more than six
campers in each unit. When the campers arrived
at 10:00 o’clock, they immediately began their

(Continued on page 105)

Pantomime is Easy

By GRACE MARIE STANISTREET

E ALL RECOGNIZE

pantomime as one

of the most practi-
cal means for children’s
plays. With increased
adult interest in the bal-
let, and the universal ap-
peal of such movement
and color, the ballet play,
like those produced by
Junior Programs, has be-
come a very popular form
of children’s entertain-
ment.

There are many varia-
tions of this kind of play,
from the ever-useful
shadow play to the well-
rehearsed pantomime.
One method is to have
the children playing the
story (if they are over ten years of age) think of
themselves as puppets, and pantomime the dia-
logue of a play. This, of course, demands close co-
ordination between the actor and the reader, and
more direction from the leader. But it is fun, and
it creates more opportunities for participation in
that the better readers of the group may be cast to
read the parts of the play. It is desirable to have
a reader for every character unless an expert who
can create voices for each character is available.
The readers may, be in evidence, or they may be
concealed. The writer has used both ways.

One of the most successful productions by this
method was a scene from “The Nutcracker of
Nuremberg,” the story retold by Donald E. Cooke,
published by John C. Winston Company, Phila-
delphia. The scene selected was the one in which
the handsome young doctor becomes a nutcracker.
This version of the story drops the narrative style
at this point and becomes dramatic dialogue.

he is to speak.

The Pantomime Method

With a few changes any story will lend itself to
the pantomime method. In order to create the
illusion of the play it is necessary to unify it in
place and time, and, if necessary, divide it into
scenes. The story of “The Sleeping Beauty,” for

72

Director. Adelphi Children's Theatre Arts Center
Adelphi College

Participation in drama should free a child of
self-consciousness. Too frequently the reverse
effect is produced and by studied action. mem-
orized lines' and formal performances. the child
becomes very self-conscious of his audience or
feels a nervous strain in remembering the lines

With the approaching summer camp and play-
ground season, directors are looking about for
dramatic materials for rainy day use. for as-
sembly and visitors' day' and for educational
purposes. The writer has found. through years
of camp experience. a few serviceable ideas for
the presentation of the informal' almost "re-
hearsal-Iess" play. which she offers here.

instance, could be ar—
ranged in the following
manner:

SCENE I—The Throne Room
Action: The Christening
SCENE II—The Tower Room

Action: Incident of the
Spindle
SCENE IIIA—The‘Throne
Room
Action: The Princess,
weeping, rushes in to
the assembled court. All
are suddenly overcome
by sleep.
SCENE IV—The Forest—
100 years later
Action: The Prince dis-
covers the castle

SCENE V———The Throne Room
Action : The Awakening

It is better to select a

suitable story and arrange

it to fit the needs of the group than to try to fit

the group to a play. The story field offers wider

selection of material, and opportunity for group

creativity and participation, and greater satisfac-
tion in the final production.

Costumes and stage sets may be simple or
elaborate. The writer favors the Chinese method
of production which depends to a large extent on
the use of symbols for scenery and properties, and
on the imagination of the audience to interpret
them.

One device to explain such simple presentation,
and at the same time dignify it, is to use a prelude
of spoken dialogue. The following scene was writ-
ten to precede a pantomime version of “The Golden
Cockerel,” illustrated and told by Willy and Elaine
Pogany, published by Thomas R. Nelson, New
York. Because it is obviously a device it may be
adapted for any production.

BOY (Seated on barrel with baby carriage near him. Some
" children hurry in) : VVhat’s your hurry?

CHILDREN: We’re going to a play.

BOY: What’s a play?

CHILDREN: He doesn’t know what a play is!

BOY: Bet you don’t either.

CHILDREN: We do, too.

BOY: Well, what is it?

CHILDREN: Well, it’s a story.

RECREATION ‘

 

PANTOMIME [S EASY 73

BOY: A story is just a story. \Vhy don’t you say you’re
going to a story then?

CHILDREN: But it’s not just a story. It’s real people and
a stage. But they aren’t real people; they’re only pre-
tend peOple. Oh, yes, they are real peOple but they’re
pretending to 'be people in a story. And they have
costumes, and a stage and lights. And an audience.
And scenery. (These speeches are divided among the
group.)

BOY: \Vell, what do the people do?

CHILDREN: Act out a story.

BOY: A true story?

CHILDREN: Sometimes it’s true, sometimes it’s just pre-
tend, make believe. The one we’re going to see is just
pretend. It’s called “The Golden Cockerel.”

BOY: \Vhy don’t you have it here?

CHILDREN: Here? But there isn’t any scenery.

Bof: You said it was all pretend. Why can’t you pre-
tend the scenery? I could.

CHILDREN: So could we, -but where is the audience?

BOY: There are some people out there, ask them. I’ll ask
them. Will you be the audience? Sure, they’ll be your
audience.

CHILDREN: But we haven’t actors.

BOY: I could pretend so hard I bet I could be audience
and act too. -

CHILDREN: But somebody has to know the story.

LADY (passing by): Would I do? 1
know the story of “The Golden
Cockerel,” and there are some of the
actors now on their way to the play.
Shall we ask them if they’d play
here? 

CHILDREN: Yes, you ask them.

BOY: Could I ask them? Are you peo-
ple really actors? On your way to
the play? Look, I can’t go there.
Could you do it here because I never
saw a play, and I can’t go to your
place because I have to mind the
baby. Look, would you do it?

ACTORS: But there isn’t any stage.

BOY: If you’re good pretenders you
don’t need any, do you?

ACTORS: That’s right, we don’t, but how
about the audience? Are they good
pretenders? H

BOY: You’re all good pretenders, aren’t
you? Yes, they’re good pretenders.

The gypsy who told and sold the
story of the Nutcracker ot Nurem-

berg; the little boy who bought
it for a penny. and the Nutcracker

himself. Produced by the Adelphi
Children's Theatre Arts Center in
June I943 at Adelphi College.

MAY 1944

Acroas (after consultation): Sure, we’ll do it, but where’s
our storyteller?

LADY: I know the story.

KING: But Dunya isn’t here.

LADY: Oh, I’ll be Dunya, too.

BOY: If we’re good pretenders could we be in the play?

Kmo: Of course. The best kind of audience is actor
and the best actor is audience. Why not? Now are
we all ready? Actors disappear! Audience close your
eyes! Wind up your imaginations. When I say go
you may Open your eyes. Ready, get set, go!

Unity of Audience and Actor '

An important factor in the production of simple
plays is the unity of audience and actor. As ex-
pressed in the foregoing prologue, the good actor
must be audience as well, and the audience must
always participate in the play for a really success-
ful performance. It is a good idea to make this
actively true with young audiences and actors.
Closer cooperation may be achieved by representing
the audience dramatically as in Stuart VValker’s
play for children, “Sir David \‘Vears a Crown,” or
by having some of the actors actually part of the

 

74 PANTOMIME IS EASY

f‘

audience as in a prologue
devised to preface a panto~
mime production of “The
Nutcracker of Nuremberg.”
This may be used as an in-
troduction to any story.
Three children are jump-
ing rope. A voice is heard
singing in the distance.
“Stories for sale. Stories for sale, who’ll buy

my tales. VVho’ll buy my tales ?”

BETTY: Who’s that selling something down the street?

JANET: Sh! Listen to what she says.

GYPSY: Stories for sale. Who’ll buy my tales?

HELEN: Why she’s a gypsy. Let’s see her. (They run
to meet the gypsy, who carries a gay bundle.)

GYPSY: Stories for sale. Stories for sale. Who’ll buy
my tales?

CHUCK (a little boy behind the gypsy, out of breath from
running): Lady, lady would you swap one for a
marble? I’ll let you take your pick.

GYPSY: One for a penny, two for a shell. (Still singing
her song.) /

CHUCK: But I haven’t got a penny. Aw, gee, Lady,
lookit, they’re swell marbles. Will you wait till I go
home and ask my mother? Will you? (She is still
walking, he is following.)

GYPSY: Pink ones, blue ones, yellow ones, green ones—

BETTY: What are those things? pointing to the bundle)

GYPSY (she stops) : Stories for telling to boys and girls.
Lavenders, reds, and purples and blues, adventure,
romance, historic and true, thrilling or quiet, old or
new. Tales for sale. (She continues her song and
walks on.)

JIMMIE (appears from another direction) : I’ll buy one,
lady, but I only have a penny. What can you tell me
for a penny? I don’t want history, and it mustn’t be
new, for there’s nothing like an old tale that's been a
favorite, too.

GYPSY: An old tale, sir? (She stops and opens her
bundle.) I think I have one here to suit the taste of
you. And it only costs a penny, a little shiny penny,
plus a smile or two. How would this one do?

J IMMIE: Yes, I think that would please me. It’s quite a
pleasant color. Would you tell it to me now?

This action takes place on the Hoor of the audi-
torium, not on the stage. The gypsy enters from
the rear of the room, if possible, walking through
the audience.

The Storytelling Method

Another method of presenting pantomime is for
the storyteller (in costume, if desired) to tell the
story of each scene before it happens and use a
musical background for the" action. In this way
time, place, scene and characters can be described
and introduced by the storyteller.

Pantomime is the best kind of acting for children

Miss Stanistreet has produced a number of
pantomime plays at the Adelphi Children's
Theatre Arts Center. among them. Moth in
Ermine (an unpublished story); The Piper
(the Browning poem): The Nutcracker (based
on the well-known stor ): and The Golden
Coclcerel (version of Eaine and Willy Po-
gany) which will be produced June |6th
at Adelphi College, Garden City, N. Y.

because the action is
prompted constantly by the
storyteller and the actors
' learn to listen. When the
young actor has to memor-
ize lines and action he be-
comes stilted, artificial, and
nervous. Some leaders may
ask, “Then why not use im-
promptu dialogue?” This is fine for exercise but
most directors consider it inadequate for a perform-
ance for several reasons. When children talk in a
play, that is, make up their speeches, they naturally
key their voices to reach only those on the stage.
Except with much practice they cannot consider the
audience and think their lines too. And it is worth
mentioning here that when they memorize their
speeches, they think only of remembering the words,
or of reaching the audience, and consequently fail
to think the part. Another reason for avoiding im—
promptu dialogue in actual performance is that the
actors are apt to run away with the story, lose sight of
the main points, or to distort characters 3nd scenes.

The author is reminded of a pantomime produc-
tion of “The Piper” in which the mayor, who was
wearing a top hat, lost it on the stage. The di-
rector, who was watching, wondered how it would
get back to the mayor. The tall hat lay in the mid-
dle of the stage. The mayor was too fat and digni-
lied to stoop for the hat, and also he was engaged
in an important piece of business. A member of
the corporation, extricating himself from the group,
moved over to the place where the hat had rolled,
picked it up, and with an elaborate bow, returned
it to the mayor. The mayor (a twelve year old girl)
bowed his thanks and clapped it back on his head,
then as an afterthought took it off, rubbed it on his
sleeve, and replaced it on his head. This was such
a delightful, natural bit of business that it was re- ‘
tained in the next performance. This is an indica-
tion of the freedom to act, and of the naturalness
that pantomime produces which is,not often pos—
sible with spoken lines.

The director who appreciates values of dramatic
experience for children and knows that the indi-
vidual receives value from the experience in pro-
portion to the effectiveness of the whole production
will make increasing use of pantomime. Children
love to act. Pantomime gives them opportunityto do
their best acting without strain or fear of forgetting.
It provides the director with opportunity to do a
good piece of work in a short time, and it furnishes
the audience with a very satisfying performance.

RECREATION

‘

Circus Time

in

Nortolk

circus like the one which
brought to a close the 1943
playground season in Norfolk.
Virginia. Every one of the 250
children and 100 adults who took
part in it, every one of the 2,000
spectators who watched it, will tell you that! Each
playground was responsible for contributing an act
to the “Grinmore Circus,” and children and play
leaders worked hard to make animals and cos*
tumes. Even the Military Police helped!

THERE NEVER was an amateur

 

Some of the spectators were a little awed
by the animals. but they loved the circus!

The circus, sponsored by the Bureaus of Parks
and Recreation, was held on the cement tennis
courts at City Park. Two circus rings about 22
feet in diameter were made by using park benches
and rope, decorated with red, white, and blue

(Continued on page 110)

Introducing the playground circus favorite.
"Angelica." the creation of many busy hands

5.5!.  -. -
- I  41 . -
.- . x) " 3"! 4" ,.
«v a! A _' .
i, . :1.“g .. ' r f. ,-
‘3‘6' 1;, 1' l.

. ’..
y f ' it.
~ .‘ a,
. ‘ r
a
W-
M

”\

 

What’s Happening on the West Coast?

By FLORENCE WILLIAMS

USO Consultant on Health and Recreation
for the National Board, Y.W.C.A.

IDING AN aquaplane be-

hind a speeding boat is

fun. Keeping one’s bal—
ance as the tricky board
bounces over the waves is exciting, but the time
usually comes when a sudden turn or large wave
tosses all but the most expert. The boat goes on
and the swimmer is left adrift.

Wives of servicemen, like the aquaplaner, are
following the boat of war, happy as long as they
are with their husbands, but knowing always that
some day a huge wave will carry the boat and G.I.
Joe ahead, leaving them to face life alone. Hun-
dreds of thousands of women from all walks of
life, from farms, factories and Junior Leagues, are
still leaving home ties behind and are swarming
into Army towns.

On the West Coast, where some of the greatest
Army and Navy installations in the country have
been built, the onrushing legion of wives has
thrown whole areas into confusion. These wives—
along with the army of war workers—form an im—
portant part of the new population of the West
Coast. And it is estimated that 20 per cent of the
people living there today were not there two years
ago, and that 85 per cent of these newcomers will
remain after the war!

Older women married for years, young girls on
their First journey away from mother—each is on
the move, her plans for the future and the solid
foundation of established family life thrown out of
balance by the war’s hold on her husband and by

her'own need to stay near him until the day of
Final departure.

Little things mean so much to these couples
waiting and dreading separation. In one USO a
young wife cried bitterly because a club davenport
was to be sent out to be reupholstered. When a
staE member asked what was the trouble, she
sobbed, "Johnnie and I sit on that couch every
evening and pretend that the club is our apart-
ment and we are sitting on our own davenport.
Can’t you leave it until he’s shipped?” The daven—
port stayed!

A soldier’s morale depends upon a lot of little
things. The most important is the welfare of his
wife. Actually “Just to be near you” is a sweet
sentiment for a love song, but in real life it leaves

76

much to be desired. A wife,
even though she lives just
around the corner from
camp, is no bundle of cheer
to her soldier husband if she finds herself cooped
up in a tiny rodm with nothing to do all day but
wait for the few free hours he can spend with her.
And a tiny room is what she is likely to find, if
she’s lucky, because towns near military areas are
jammed to the attics.

She’ll be even luckier if she Finds a job in this
town that’s bursting at the seams. And a job is
something many an Army wife must have, not only
to keep busy for her disposition’s sake, but be—
.cause she must earn money to supplement her
husband’s pay check. Otherwise she could not
remain near him at all.

In their eagerness to join their husbands, many
of these wives overlook the fact that even in these
days of manpower shortage there can be areas of
surplus labor. Thousands of courageous girls give
up good jobs and trek across country hoping to
lind work near their husbands, often gambling
their last nickel on that hope. Sometimes arriving —.
with a baby in their arms, they seek rooms. jobs,
and a day nursery for the baby.

Serving Wives and Children

USO directors perform countless services for
these women-—-services which include finding them
living quarters for a night or a month, locating
husbands, fathers, and sons in camp, putting newly
arrived children in schools, arranging recreation
and cooking centers, and setting up classes in
nutrition, baby care, and sewing.

A kitchen is an unknown quantity to many of
these girls, and so USO kitchens are in use con-
stantly, sometimes being signed for weeks in
advance. Although most wives won’t admit they
can’t cook, they are all ‘anxious to learn new
recipes. Girls from Texas want to make New Eng-
land boiled dinners, and those from Maine, who
are sent to the Mexican border, want to know all
about beans and frijoles. Cooking and nutrition
classes are blossoming all over the country, and l
the husbands are the enthusiastic recipients of ’
some surprisingly good concoctions.

     
    
 

Many suggestions for activities come from the '

RECREATION

r—

WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST? 77

w i v e s t h e m-
selves. In one
club the girls de-
cided to get out
a monthly letter
f r o m “ B e t t y
Jeep” to their

friends who had
left the post.

They told all the
gossip, address-
ing the letter to
“Dear Khaki-
Wackies.” At
Medford, Ore-
.gon, the girls
wrote a “Hand—
book for Wives”
whiCh they sent
to the wife of
any soldier who
reported the im-

minent arrival of
“his better half.” The prospectus included infor-

mation on the kind of clothes to bring, the possi-
bilities of getting a job, room and board, the cost
of living, and a listing of every store in town.

A weekly luncheon followed by interest groups
takes popularity honors. The meal is planned,
cooked, and served by a committee and is often the
one good meal in the week for many girls. Interest
groups vary from Red Cross sewing, knitting or
bandage rolling to gym and sports and child care
courses. Girls from the North, South, East, and
\V est play and work together, and in playing and
working they learn to understand and be more
tolerant of each other’s differences.

“Heir Corps” clubs, Layette and “Ladies-in-
VVaiting” clubs have swept the country because
many of these girls are expectant mothers—often
with their first baby—away from home, young
and pathetically afraid. In such groups the girls
_ get together to make layettes, sew baby clothes,
and discuss their common problems. Doctors,
nurses, and public health officials give their time
and talent so that the girls may really know what
is happening to them and what to expect and so
that babies once arrived will be properly cared for.

In one club a “Loan Cradle” was started by the
USO and the Women’s Auxiliary of the American
Legion when they discovered an expectant mother
in serious financial trouble, with only half a dozen
diapers laid away as Junior’s layette. The plan

MAY 1944

 

n E‘iSO'Dtrision, National Board, 1’. HACK/1.

These war workers. who serve as volunteers at
the USO Club. live in a trailer and like it!
However. they welcome the opportunity to pre-
pare an occasional snack in the Club's kitchen.

was to have on hand as much baby equipment as
possible -— beds, bassinets, high chairs, buggies,
clothing, so that when an ,enlisted man’s wife has
a baby it will not be necessary for her to buy
things the baby will outgrow in a short time. She
borrows equipment from the Cradle and returns it
when Junior has grown past that stage. An appeal
made through the local newspaper immediately
brought two beds, complete with mattresses, sheets,
pillows, pillow cases and pads, dozens of diapers,
baby sweaters, booties, socks and blankets. The
Loan Cradle is now a thriving institution.

Tamilies of war workers are wartime victims,
too, in the Pacific area as in ‘other regions. Often
they come from comfortable homes in towns where
they are known and respected. They arrive as total
strangers in—let us say, Vallejo, California, which
in prewar days had 19,000 residents and today has
more than 100,000, thanks to the Navy and the
vast new shipyards! Of the tens of thousands of
new workers great numbers of them are women,
and several thousand are Negroes. -\_

4‘

The tremendous influx of Negroes to this part

78 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST? _

of the country has brought many racial tensions.
Already social workers are concerned that the old
patterns of segregation may be repeated here not
only because communities often believe it easier to
follow the most conservative patterns in dealing
with race relations, but also because many of the
shifting population come from communities Where
segregation exists and are seeking to transplant it.

Housing Projects Help Solve Broblems

Government housing projects as well as trailer
camps (that are fast disappearing as the housing
projects rise) have been a partial solution to the
problems presented by this fantastic migration,
both Negro and white. In Vallejo alone almost a
dozen such projects, both federal and private, are
perched crazily on the wind—swept slopes.

In some large housing projects where local re-
sources are inadequate or unavailable, the Federal
Public Housing Authority and the FSA have re—
quested the help of USO. Sometimes our leaders
carry on an extension program in a trailer, in
project recreation buildings, or in temporary build-
ings nailed together by the workers themselves.
In one such spot the fathers and mothers got to-
gether and planned their own recreation building.
The women cooked supper every night out under
the trees while the men used their hammers and
saws. Everybody had a grand time at this series
of “cook-outs.” The children gathered wood, the
women cooked the wieners and hamburgers, and
the men worked until dark night after night put-
ting up the portable walls and floors.

In Hermiston, Oregon, families of war produc-
tion workers arrived with furniture scratched and
broken from a long haul in cars and trailers. They
had not been able to bring pictures for the walls
nor any knickknacks. The housing units, though
clean, were barren, located in the sand and sage
brush, so the House Beautiful Project was started.

The wives of workers were invited to the recre-
ation hall to see samples of home crafts on exhiln't.
They all immediately wanted to make things to
brighten their homes. They brought their furniture
to the club and helped each other mend and paint
it. They cut and framed pictures from the art
magazines. Wall plaques were made by the dozen.
Women in the pottery group made lovely bowls
and vases. Cork table mats and coasters decorated
with colorful designs in tempora paint were espe-
cially prized possessions. Trailer mothers de-
veloped their own line of spongex toys and ani-

mals; nonskid soap dishes rated with Papa!
\

These informal crafts led to many other inter-
esting projects. It was easy to get acquainted in
the Crafts Shop, and when the women knew each
other they wanted to do other things together. Thus '
the program grew.

In the town of Ordnance, ten miles away—a
deveIOpment that sprang out of the desert to house
workers in the great ordnance depot there—our
workers, in cooperation with the project office,
have secured a branch of the state library. The
residents are delighted and are turning out to be
among the greatest readers in the state!

They are working out a system of self—govern-
ment in the project, too, aided by the USO recrea—
tion-health representatives and by the project
manager, who was once the director of an FSA
trailer and is now, with his wife, among the most
enthusiastic of USO volunteers. They have inter-
esting family recreation organized and music and
craft activities.

Sometimes in our work in such federal housing
projects we carry on all the recreation; in other
places we supplement what local agencies can
provide. With the c00peration of the project’s
manager and the blessing of the tenants, council
committees of men and women, or teen age boys
and girls, or both, are organized so that they may
plan and carry out their own program.

’” In one coastal town shipyard workers brought
material and made all the equipment for play—
grounds in their trailer town. They even built
playground shelters for rainy days. This group of
men became so enthusiastic that they used every
crate and stray bit of lumber to build benches for
trailer lawns. Finally “tot lots” were constructed
in nine different locations and then the trailerites,
in droves, joined a training course to learn how to
supervise and lead playground activities.

Last Spring, in trailer and housing units, the
prospect of communal gardens or a little patch of
one’s own land had a special appeal born of experi-
ence with the uncertain food situations in booming
war industry towns.

Diagrams and charts were carefully studied.
Discussions at meetings included everything from
proper fertilizer to contour plowing. Experienced
gardeners were corralled and questioned avidly.
Rakes, hoes, spades and trowels were brought out
and the iirst bright, sharp days of spring found
numerous novices digging in the sweet-smelling
earth.

In spite of cutworms, aphids, Japanese beetles,
corn borers and other unwelcome posts, the results

RECREATION

WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST? 79

of the eager planning and hard work of the gar-
deners indicated that many a baby-class “truck
farmer” had a thumb as green as the first spear of
lettuce that broke his ground.

In many communities, where a variety of vege-
tables sprouted in defense housing and trailer gar-
dens, community canning and dehydration demon-
strations were arranged at the club in cooperation
with the state nutritionist and the county nutrition
council. Women whose trailer kitchens were in-

adequate for canning purposes were invited to use .

the USO kitchen and pressure cooker. In one
housing unit the county agricultural department
distributed pamphlets on drying, canning and pre-
serving, and for weeks the USO bulletin board was
covered with canning recipes clipped from maga-
zines and newspapers. The women eagerly took
advantage of these practical helps and later the
fruits of their labors were exhibited and judged at
a canning display in the USO club. Ribbons were
awarded to the winners. r-

Even the little girls from this same housing de-
velopment, upon forming a Girl Scout troop, chose
to grow a Victory garden as their first item of
business. Victory gardeners in another club had
their garden soil analyzed before planting. They
also sought advice on planting from the county
agricultural agent and on nutrition from the home
economics teacher in order to know what vege-
tables to choose, both for hardy growing qualities
and for their health value.

For Teen-Agers

' Since there are too few or no recreation facili-
ties for teen-agers still attending high and junior
high schools in sgme war production centers, the
USO has in some instances stepped into the
breach. However, USO tries, through participa-
tion on community committees with school lead-
ers, parent-teacher groups and social agencies, to
encourage the already existing community agen-
cies to take responsibility for programs with teen-
agers.

When it seems necessary for USO to offer its
services, it schedules specific times for teen-agers’
meetings and parties separate from its program
with adults. The program may be held in the
USO building at a housing project, in a school,
or in other community buildings. Some of this
organizing of teen-agers has had a remarkable
effect on the youngsters. One bunch of tough little
thirteen-year-olds who found they could have fun
without breaking furniture changed their name

MAY 1944 i

from the “Dirty Dozen” to “Junior Commandos.”

They listed the aims of the Junior Commandos as:

Eat watermelon

Learn to dance

Have football games in the fall
Be better citizens

Be on the radio

Occasionally a town, slow to recognize the needs
of teen-agers, becomes enthusiastic after seeing re-
sults. Once aroused, the community usually takes
over with a will and USO drops out.

All Honor to Volunteers!

Without volunteers this diversified job of the
USO would not be possible. An army of more
than a million men, women, and young people lend
their time and talents to the work of the USO all
over the country. They man the information desk,
serve behind the snack bar, sit on the council or
operating committee, help with the records, and
keep the phonograph and circulating libraries in
order. They mend and sew and bake, they chaper-
on the dances and teach the classes, they lend
their known skills and uncover new ones never
dreamed of. All this and more the volunteers are
doing.

Twenty women donated more than 400 hours of
their time within a week in one club when they
sewed braid on more than a thousand Army caps.
In another club a volunteer housing committee
divided the town into seven areas and took the re-
sponsibility for investigating and reporting avail-
able rooms in each area. In some communities
already busy recreation leaders have volunteered
hours to teach square dancing, crafts or lead a
training course.

In some military and industrial areas wenserve,
USO encountered an entirely new problem of se-
curing volunteers.- In the past, social workers have
usually had the very cream of their community
from which to select their unpaid workers. USO
directors, however, often arrived in brand new
communities without an established pattern, or in
communities so overburdened by a sudden rise in
population that the established patterns had broken
down. Faced with this situation they had to begin
afresh. And this, it turned out, was a very salutary
thing. Everybody was a possible volunteer: factory
worker and bank president, housewife and club
woman, church group member and labor 'union
representative, experienced and inexperienced.
Hidden abilities were developed and the directors
understood as they never had before the import-

(Coiztz'nued on page 106)

Those Young Folks of Ours!

Every week brings us news of the establishment of more youth centers in
all parts of the land. Almost daily, pictures reach us showing boys and
girls vigorously cleaning and renovating old buildings, or dancing to the
music of juke boxes, or enjoying a snack and a drink at the soda bar.
It’s sweeping America—this youth center movement. And we, the grown-
ups, owe it to these young people of ours to see to it that back of them,
ready to extend a helping hand, are wise,.unobtrusive adult leaders.

Instead of Curfew Laws

By ALLEN K. HEYDRICK

Board of Commerce
Bradford. Pennsylvania

nity of Bradford, Pennsylvania, awoke to

the realization that juvenile gangs and teen
age youngsters were getting themselves into more
and more scrapes. After a number of these esca-
pades had been publicized, some of the local groups
set up a cry for the re-enactment of the curfew law.
This might have
been successful had
it_ not been for the
farsightedness of
Mayor Hugh
Ryan and members
of the Civic Com—
mittee of the Board
of Commerce, who
believed that indict-
ing another regula-
tion on already over-
regulated boys and
girls was not the
answer to the prob-
lem.

 MORNING in \February 1943 the commu—

So this little group
decided to do some-
thing about it. The
Mayor called a
meeting of repre-
sentative citizens
and invited to it
youth representa-
tives from the city
schools. The teen-
agers were urged to
tell why the present

80

 

Photo by R. D. Fraser, Bradford, Pa.

situation existed and were asked whether they
would cooperate with the curfew law. The boys
and girls present at the meeting were “cagey.”
They stated they would prefer not to answer at
that time, but said they would talk with their fel-
low students and report back to the group in the
next two weeks. This they did, and their report
submitted at a subsequent meeting stressed the fol-
lowing..points :

I. The curfew law would not prove a solution
to the problem but rather would lend itself to
further violation of laws.

2. The chief reason why the gangs were running
the streets was that
they had no other
place to go.

When it was sug»
gested to them that
local youth agen-
cies were providing
facilities for them,
their answer was
that they wanted a
place of their own
where even under
adult leadership
they could do the
things which they
could not do in any
of the existing
agencies.

After lengthy dis—
cussions a joint
committee of youth-
and adults was set
up to Establish a
downtown “hang-
out” as the teen-
agers termed it——a.
recreation center in
the nomenclature of

RECREATION

the adults. A downtown
empty storeroom was ob-
tained rent free and work was

begun. The student general committee organized
subcommittees, including one on constitution and
bylaws, work committees, a procurement commit-
tee, a finance committee, and committees on facili—

ties and publicity.

The center was on its way! The Board of Com-
merce contributed $1,000 to the project. It was

matched by city funds and a
similar amount from the School
Board. A dance floor was laid,
booths were. constructed, a
soda bar purchased, and a juke
box installed on a fifty-fifty
basis. Linoleum was laid, walls
were painted and papered,
murals were painted on the
walls, a shufiieboard, table tennis

MAY 1944

THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

 

"It it's to be our center we're going to
have a hand in making it!" They're say-
ing that all over the country these days.

81

Photo by R. D. Fraser, Bradford, Pa.

table, and a pool table were
obtained, and the center was
ready to be opened. Student

participation in the work was beyond expectations,
and the enthusiasm generated by the publicity
through the school brought gratifying results.

For the opening night it was decided to have a

“come—and-see” open house for the adults of the

 

Bradtord is a thriving city of about
20,000 people located in the north-
western part of Pennsylvania. Though
not a war industry-centered commu-
nity' as the so-called "oil metropolis
of the world,’I it shares with other
busy cities many wartime problems.
one of which is iuvenile delinquency.

community. when all those who had worked on the
center could be seen engaging in the activities

which would normally be car—
ried on. Many skeptical and
nonskeptical Bradfordians
stopped in to see the “hang—
out” and its activities.

The B-Hive (so named to
be representative of the Brad-
ford High and St. Bernard
High) officially opened the fol-
lowing evening. The Mayor,

82 THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

members of'the City Council and the Civic Com—
mittee of the Board of Commerce, and other of-
ficials donned aprons for the evening and put on a
“Stage Door Canteen” act. The Mayor presided
at the coke bar; the president of one of the women’s
clubs, along with other outstanding women, waited
on tables; a representative of the Community Chest
ran the cloakroom, and the secretary of the Board
of Commerce racked pool balls The teen—agers

loved it !

In addition to the membership cards issued
school youths, those out of school a year may
secure cards.

The center, which is in charge of a paid worker,
is open Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and
Thursdays from 3:30 to 5 :30 and from 7:30 to
10:30. On Fridays and Saturdays it is open from
3:30 to 5:30 and from 7:30 to II :30. The late
schedule also applies after dances, basketball games,
and similar events.

An interesting development in Bradford has
been the establishment, along with the youth cen-
ter, of a Recreation Commission charged with de-
veloping a community-wide recreation program.
This Commission was established with the help of
a field secretary of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, and is now at work. One committee from
the commission is deve10ping winter sports facili-
ties, and another is setting up the summer play-
ground program.

Teen Age Nights

By LILLIAN SCHWERTZ

CTIVITIES for the youth of
Dallas have always been

an integral part of the plan-
ned recreation program of—
fered by the Dallas Park and
Recreation Department. Rec—
ognizing current trends and
the need for highly organized
activities for the teen age
level, and further realizing
that the regular everyday ac-
tivities of the past would not

Former club members now in
service visit the Teen Age
Nights to see old friends

 

"_All in all." says Mrs. Schwertz. Super-
visor ot Playgrounds and Community Cen-
tersI Dallas' Texas' Park and Recreation
Department. "Teen Age Nights at our mu-
nicipal centers have proved over and
over again that when young people are
given wholesome tun they do respond, not
only as participants but as leaders.‘I

M

adequately serve this need without glamour and a
bit of something extra, the community center lead-
ers exerted a “turn about face” in their program
planning during these high tension days. At a
staff meeting of all leaders, the idea of stressing
teen age activities was the current year’s outstand—
ing project was unanimously agreed upon. It was
decided to have one night during the week at each
center, when the entire facilities, program, and
leadership would be devoted entirely to teen age

girls and boys.

Each leader approached the high school prin-
cipal in the surrounding community and enlisted
his aid. Each principal was asked to submit the
names of the natural leaders from the community.
These boy and girl leaders were invited by the
community center leader to serve on a community
youth council. One hundred per cent response fol-
lowed, for what high school boy or girl, selected

 

Photo by Dallas Times Herald

RECREATION

THOSE Yo UNG FOLKS OF OURS! 83

‘-

to represent his school, wouldn’t feel honored to
serve on such a committee?

Each center now has its own Youth Council and
works independently of the other groups. At the
first meeting of a youth council, the recreation
leaders presented the idea of a teen age night and
asked for discussion. The response was enthusi-
astically favorable.

Several meetings of each group were held before
definite rules and plans were completed.These rules,
made by the boys and girls themselves, were in
many instances more strict than the leaders them-
selves would have made them. For instance, the
girls decided against the wearing of slacks and
shorts. The boys and girls voted against drinking
intoxicants, smoking in the auditorium where
there would be dancing, and against attendance by
any person not between the ages of thirteen and
nineteen.

The officers selected at
each center became very
active in attempting to make
their club the best. The sec-
retary and treasurer of one
club even consulted another
center’s recreation leader for
permission to study her
club’s system of keeping
books and records! A Spe—
cial floor committee was
appointed to handle all prob-
lems of discipline and to en-
force the few rules that were created. This method
has proved most successful and seldom is it neces—
sary for the recreation leader to intervene.

Decorating committees keep the building color-
ful and attractive, with the holidays, of course, re-
ceiving particular stress in the way of decoration.
Two of the auditoriums have fireplaces and on cold
nights the warm glow from the 'Wood fire plus the
rose colored spotlights, strategically placed, is
mOst effective.

Ping-pong, carroms, dominoes, checkers, ana-
grams, puzzles, and ust “talk” are very popular in
the clubrooms. Dancing, as always, is the high-
lighted activity of the teen age night.

'Automatic record changing music machines
bring the best current hits to the listeners and
dancers. A teen age orchestra composed of ten
boys is becoming very popular. About a year ago
a fifteen year old youngster asked permission from
one of the center leaders for a group of fellow mu-
sicians to practice in the building one night a week.

MAY 1944

Mrs. Raish believes that Atchison's Teen
Town has a number of unique features. In
the first place. the boys and girls them-
selves conducted a bond campaign to raise
the $800 needed to furnish their room and
provide recreation equipment. Then. tooI
they held an election strictly according
to correct governmental procedure. elected
councilmen. and from them chose a mayor.
Next. they selected a city manager from
among the adults interested in their pro-
gram. These are a few of the reasons
why Teen Town is "democracy in action."

This permissionwas given and in a few months the
leader invited them to play for the weekly dance.
The outcome of that invitation resulted in the boys
organizing a dance band known as “Johnny Alex—
ander and his Jive Slingers” which became a definite
“must” for the center’s weekly dance. They have
played on special occasions for the other ‘centers,
dances, and as one youngster put it, “they play
what we want, just the way we want it!” which,
of course, usually means loud and swingy!

During the current Red Cross drive, each center
had a Red Cross Night with the weekly 10 cents
club dues and the profits from the sale of refresh—
ments donated to the Red Cross. “Sadie Hawkins”
nights, Bingo parties and chili suppers have proved
most p0pu1ar, as have regular monthly formals. At
one of the teen age nights at the Mexican center,
the boys and girls were dressed in overalls and
aprons and the building was
literally converted into a
barn with plows, rakes, bales
of hay and other farm im-
plements lending atmos-
phere to the rustic effect for
a special barn dance.

Clever invitations made by
the members of the decorat-
ing and reception commit—
tees are sent each week to
different city officials and
civic-minded adults, inviting
them to drop in and visit
their club. These adult visitors are surprised at
the efficient and well-mannered way in which the
activities are being conducted by the youngsters
themselves.

Representatives from each of the eight teen age
groups have been invited to serve on a city—wide
youth council which is sponsored by the Council
of Social Agencies.

The attendance at the teen age night varies from
50 to 100 at the smaller community center build—

ings, and from 200 to 500 boys and girls at the,
larger areas.

Teen Town
By MARJORIE G. RAISH

UNTIL LAST MAY Atchison, Kansas, was merely
another small town wide open for juvenile

delinquency. As the youngsters put it, “There isn’t
a thing to do any more. You can’t go out of town

84 THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

because of gas rationing. There’s no place to go
here except beer parlors. The drug stores even
close early.” Then they decided to do something
about it themselves.

After talking the problem over in the young
people’s council composed of the church young
people’s'organizations of the town, they sent a
representative to the next meeting of the Minis-
terial Alliance to ask for a center where they could
dance as well as play games. It was decided that
the Y.M.C.A. would sponsor the center with help
from the civic and service clubs.

The boys and girls were not easily satisfied.
“It’s got to be an attractive place—a place we can
be proud of,” they said. The equipment and dec—
oration committee brought in plans for a clubroom
with equipment to cost $800. Sixty teen—agers, a
great many without previous experience, canvassed
the town selling shares, at $5 apiece, to adults to
raise the money. To help their campaign they pre-
pared newspaper and radio publicity. They also
scheduled two speakers—a boy and girl—at each
club of the city.

In ten days they had raised the money. With
this they converted the 30’ x 70’ rarely used ban-
quet room of the Y.M.C.A. into a night club with
tiled floor, booths, tables, service counter, stools,
and nickelodeon. They equipped one adjoining
room for table tennis, another for checkers, chess,
and a reading table with youth magazines. Their
color scheme of red, white, and blue was most
attractive, and colored lights added to the coziness
for dancing.

Early in September Teen Town opened with
more than 350 members and many interested
guests. A week later open house was held for par—
ents and friends and a bang-up floor show of
dances and music was presented under the super-
vision of the, high school dramatic department.
Within the first month the membership had jumped
to 600, and after four months it was nearly 1,000.

x Teen Town is open Tuesday, Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday nights. The hours are 7 :30 to 10:30
except on Saturday when the closing hour is I I :00.
At least one hostess, who must be a member her—
self, is on hand at all times to
check membership cards which
may be procured for ten cents
a month. The small fee takes
care of expenses so that the
club is self-supporting. No one
who is not a member is allowed

Of course the Youth Center in Peru.
Indiana. had to have an appropriate
name. so the Student Council took
over and conducted a contest among
High School students. The name se-
lected was “"School Door Canteen."

to attend on regular nights. An adult sponsor is
always present.

Teen Town is democracy in action. It is or-
ganized like the city of Atchison itself with a coun-
cil, mayor, and city manager. To select these of-
ficers, dates for a primary and a general election of
city councilmen were scheduled. Election notices
were sent to all interested young people between
the ages of thirteen and twenty inclusive. Both
elections were held in the city hall using the city
election booths and ballot boxes while appointed
.teen-agers acted as clerks, checkers, and judges.
The five councilmen chose a mayor from among
their number and an adult, the Hi-Y sponsor of
the high school, to act as their city manager.

The council also appointed the following officers
according to their charter: police chief and police-
men, fire prevention inspector, Teen Town bureau
of investigation, city hostesses and city engineer.

While the main value of the project is, of course,
that it has provided a place and a program for the
teen-agers of the town, its educational value is also
important. '

One of the boys on the committee remarked at
a meeting in the city manager’s oftice during elec-
tion, “I’ve learned more about city government in
the past few weeks than I learned in four years in
high school.” The city manager replied, “You
know more right now about it than the majority
of adult citizens do.”

Peru Opens a Youth Center

"WHAT YOU GOING TO DO P”

“Where shall we go ?” \
“There’s nothing to do and no place to go.”
Such remarks could be heard among our young

people last spring and early summer. From it all,
during the year of 1943, a movement was started
by a group of interested citizens for a recreation
center for the young people of Peru. C0mmittees
were appointed, and appeals were made to indi-
viduals and organizations for the fund to establish.
that much dreamed-of center for youth. A very
successful tag day was sponsored and a goodly sum
was added to the fund.

The big question was, where,
when, and what kind of pro—
gram and site should be
selected. Since no general policy
as to the type of program was
agreed upon, and no desirable

RECREATION

THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS! 85

site located, the Common
Council of the city ap-
pointed the Board of
School Trustees to act as
a recreation commission.

After devoting much
time and thought to the
subject, the Board de-
cided to furnish a large
room in the basement of
the old high school build-
ing which could be closed
off from the other parts
of the building. A com-
mittee was immediately
appointed to select fur-
nishings and supervise the
decorating of the room.

The color scheme
chosen was a soft green for
the walls and ivory for
the woodwork and ceiling.
Gay flowered draperies
were hung at the windows. Tables and chairs were
added for games. An attractive and comfortable
built-in settee was placed in a nook at one end of
the room. A piano and a juke box with the latest
records, selected by the students, were purchased
by the Commission. A candy machine and a coke
machine were placed in the room. Then the room
was ready for the youth of our city.

Dedication of the room and official “launching”
of the recreation program took the form of an open
dance for the high school students in the old high
school gym with “Gobs of Swing” from the local
naval air station providing music. This dance
alone proved that the program had a good begin-
ning and was wanted as well as needed by the
youth of our city.

At noon as well as after school, from 3:45 to
5 :00 o’clock, many students gather at the canteen.
During these hours the canteen is under the super-
vision of the students. In addition to the canteen,
a room across the hall under the stage of the old
gymnasium serves as the ping—pong room where
paddles and balls are constantly in use, with a line
of eager students awaiting their turn.

Since the canteen is for the young people of
our community, it was felt they should share the
responsibility of setting up the ’rules, regulations,
and general policies for the program of activities.
A committee composed of the superintendent of
schools,=high school principal, dean of girls, dean

MAY 1944 ”

 

of boys, president and vice-president of the student
body, the presidents of the Girls’ League and Boys’
League, president of the high school P.T.A., and
the mother of one of the students met and set up the
general rules. Certain duties were assigned to vari-
ous groups and committees.

With growing interest shown by the students, it
was decided by the Commission to open the can-
teen on two evenings, Monday and Thursday, from
7 to IO o’clock, and from 2 to 5 o’clock on Sun-
days. This type of program now required a paid
supervisor. After a diligent search a young woman
serving as a group leader at the USO was chosen;
she has assumed her responsibility and is guiding
the young people in planning their entertainment
and program in the canteen.

Junior high school students are not overlooked.
Friday evenings are for the 7th and 8th grade
pupils who are also welcome on Sunday after—
noons. They may use the canteen any other night
when not scheduled for another group, with mem-
bers of the P.T.A. acting as sponsors and super-
v1sors.

In addition to the activities in the canteen we
have a broad activity program in the school. Social
activities include many mixers and seasonal dances
sponsored by various clubs organized for the varied
interests of students. Other activities are intra-
murals, junior and senior plays, rodeo, band, or-
chestra, glee clubs, debates, and athletics. Organiza-

86 THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

 

tions within the school are
Girls’ League, Boys’ League,
Junior and Senior Hi-Y Clubs,

rules for the

When boys and girls make their own
youth centers. they're

very likely to be stifter than they

8. This must be the best rec-
reation center for teen—
agers ever to be started in

Girl Reserves, Commercial are when aduHs have a hand in form_ X-ville.

Club, Future Farmers, and ulating them. As proof of this we

Forensic League. These same offer the "Musts" and Rules from the Rules

activities, on a smaller scale, Y°Ulh “me” in "X'Vllle-n Ohl°° I. No smokes, no pop, no hats

are conducted in the junior
high. '

The purpose of the canteen is to permit the
young people to organize their own entertainment
with the proper guidance from the supervisor and
adult committee. Our young people want and ap-
preciate this center. We are planning several more
ambitious activities such as a modern square dance,
ping-pong tourney, and a jitterbug contest.

Although our prOgram is small, we in charge of
the program have wanted to move slowly, setting
up the program as the young people want it, since
it is for them. At this date, we feel that it is a
success. Now plans are to be considered for a
much broader and more extensive program which
will include summer activities.

Salaries and equipment for the summer pro-
gram, according to J. P. Crodian, Superintendent
of Schools, will be paid for by the civil city. Fa-

cilities are supplied by the school city.

"Only Ladies and Gentlemen
Over Fourteen Allowed!"

FROM A GROUP of teen-agers in a town of Ohio—

call it X-ville——comes the following:

“Musts”

I. It must be a place we can call our own.

2. It must be run by ourselves with all adult
guidance kept in the background.

3. We must all cooperate, be one for all and all
for one.

42 We must all pay dues asked of us and obey all
rules.

5. We must all have membership cards and keep
them with us.

6. We must stick with our president as much as
possible.

. There must be friendliness between both boys
and girls, no arguments that will cause em-
barrassment.

\!

on the dance floor.
2. Only ladies and gentle-
men over fourteen allowed.

3. No drinking or evidence of drinking intoxi-
cating drinks before coming.

4. No smoking by girls.
5. N o intoxicating beverages.
6. No rowdyism that disturbs others.

.7. Membership limited only to the youth of
X-ville.

8. Persons neglecting rules are to be punished.

9. All speech must be kept clean.
10. N 0 one is to enter without membership card
unless it’s something for outsiders.
With the “musts” and rules cor‘hes this question:
“Our Association plans to fix over part of the
Y.M.C.A. for us, then the Y.M.C.A. said that
they would have it fixed over and have it donated
to us on these terms: we have to pay all dues to
.them, but all money earned from our dances,
parties, etc., will be our very own. Do you think
that it will be a fair deal?”

It's Called "El Rancho"
in Beaumont:

AST SPRING the Y.W.C.A. of Beaumont, Texas,
through Esther Morrison, secretary in charge
of activities for young girls, and with the cooPera-
tion and advice of all the high school principals,
organized a Youth Council. Two leaders from
each class at Lamar Junior College and from the
four high schools were selected to help plan a pro-
gram for the teen age group.

This Council, with Miss Morrison and Reese
Martin, Superintendent of the Park and Recrea-
tion Department, planned the first party, called the
“Youth Roundup,’.’ which was held at the South
Texas State Fair grounds. Here, in the early eve-
ning, games such as volley ball, horseshoes, bad—
minton, croquet, and miniature golf were played
out-of-doors. After dark the group moved into a
building with a large dance floor, and dancing to

RECREATION

THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS.’ 87

a juke box was in
order. Those who
did not dance were
provided with
games in another
building. Table
tennis,boxhockey,
shuffleboard, bad-
minton, volley ball,
checkers and other
quiet games were
enjoyed. The party
was such a suc—
cess that the Youth
Council voted to
continue the
“Roundups” twice
a month.

VVhen school
started in Septem-
ber, it became ap-
parent that there
was need for a
center where the
young pe0ple could
come together
more often. The
Junior Welfare League came to the rescue and
secured from the Y.M.C.A. a small unused gym-
nasium. With the help of the Park and Recreation
Department the building was renovated and
painted, and the boys and girls were invited to
arrange and decorate it to suit their own taste. Soon
the walls had been decorated with cleverly de-
signed murals typifying the traditions and life of
Texas. During the Christmas holidays the center
was decorated with the pine boughs and cones
which are native to East Texas.

Then came the question of an appropriate name
for the new center. The Junior Welfare League
conducted a contest to decide this important matter
and offered a war bond as an award. A committee
from the Youth Council selected “El Rancho” as
the most distinctive name.

“El Rancho” is equipped with furniture and a
library of books turned over to the Junior Welfare
League when the Civil Air Patrol was disbanded.
Another gift was a cold drink and snack bar.
Profits from sales at the bar help pay for the ser-
vices of the employed leader and aid in meeting
other expenses. The Park and Recreation Depart-
ment furnishes a juke box and games such as
checkers, skittles, and table tennis. The center is

MAY 1944

 

open on Friday nights from 4 to II :30 P. M., on
Saturdays from 2 to 6 P. M., and every afternoon
and evening on holidays.

The Junior Welfare League provides a paid
worker who is in attendance at all hours when the
center is open. The rules, which are simple, are
made and enforced by the Youth Council. A mem-
bership fee of fifty cents per person for six months
is charged; age requirements are fifteen to twenty
years. The center boasts of a membership of 700,
and the one drawback is that “El Rancho” is too
small to permit the full membership to attend at
one time.

New I—Iaven's Booster Clubs

HE ORGANIZATION of Booster Clubs has helped
enormously to meet the challenge of juvenile
delinquency in New Haven, Connecticut, ever since
/ . .
the Park Department began campaignmg for an
adequate recreation program to keep the children .

w off the streets at night.

Under the guidance of Walter L. Wirth, Super-
intendent of Parks and Recreation, the first Booster

88

Club was founded with a

threefold purpose —— physi-.

cal, social, and civic. Today
there are nine such recrea-
tion centers in strategic
parts of the city, and in the
period from November I 5
to December I nearly 13,000
boys and girls attended
these centers. \Nith the city

THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

A warning was sounded at the three-day
conference of public welfare commission-
ers and representatives of children's ser-
vices held at the U. 5. Children's Bureau
early in February, when a number of the
conferees said that some communities
fighting iuvenile delinquency were put-
ting too much confidence in iuke boxes
and dancing. It was suggested that while
teen age centers are fine as far as they
go, only a broad attack on the causes of
delinquency and crime will be effective.

A city-wide sport festival at
which war stamp prizes
were awarded to the winners
of the various competitions
concluded the summer pro-
gram.

One night of the five-
nights-a-week program is
devoted to social activities
alone. The girls are greatly

divided into nine districts,
seven of the Booster. Clubs
are located in public school buildings, and two of
the recreation centers are in housing projects.

Fulfilling the first purpose of the Booster Club——
the physical programnbasketball is the current
favorite of the boys, although in their proper sea-
sons-volley ball, football, track, and softball aren’t
far behind. Besides competitive games there are
sports and games that stress individual ability.
Such a test is found in the five obstacle courses
that have been built and centrally located in the
parks. Identical with those used in the armed
forces to train soldiers, the obstacle courses have
done much to improve the health of New Haven
teen—agers.

Last summer intrapark competitive games were
conducted and park and district champions chosen.

 

interested in dancing, so

there are informal classes
for those who want to master all the latest steps
while the more expert choose partners and really
“swing out.” Another aspect of the recreation
program provides instruction in arts and crafts for
Booster Club members interested in learning how
to make new craft articles.

When it comes to the civic part of the program,
these teen-agers know just what the score is. Not
only do they elect their own officers———a president,
vice-president, secretary, marshal, and sergeant-
at-arms—but they are continually drafting pro-
grams, exchanging ideas, debating issues, and
thrashing out whatever teen age problems they
come up against.

An important objective of the Booster "Club plan
is to instill a civic pride in the youth of the city,

.00

. OJ.
‘ '

Business M en’s Stu dia, Beaumont, Texas

RECREATION

THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS! 8‘)

corners, today
most of these
same boys are
e n g a g e d in
healthy activities

at the Booster
Clubs. In addi-
tion, a new bond
of friendship be—
tween various
neighborhoods in
t h e c i t y h a s
sprung up with
contacts made
through activities
encouraging the
exchange of ideas
within groups.
So successful
have Booster
Clubs been in

New Haven that

"This year." says Frank J. Barry. Director Frank  Barry,
to help them appreciate the of Probation. "has seen the lowest rate of Director of Probation, re-

value and beauties of nature destruction of property in our public parks. cently Stated, “This year
as found in New Haven and the Booster Club has probably been

. . . has seen the lowest rate of
. . . the greatest Single contrlbutlon to the war _ .
Earks.‘ Thls IS IaChleved by on iuvenile delinquency in New Haven." deStructlon Of property In
a v 1 n g e a c 1

youngster sign  . i
t h e H o n o r - '
Pledge, in which .  l
he promises to
respect and pre-
serve all private
and public prop-
erty in the com-
munity. The
pledge also of-
fers an oppor-
tunity for the
boy and girl to
list the activities
that are most in-
teresting to them.

Whereas little
more than a year
ago many of the
boys in the city
were spending
their leisure time
in petty gam—
bling or . stand-
ing on street

MAY 1944

A

1!

 

90 THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

our public parks, and the Booster Club has proba-
bly been the greatest single contribution to the war
on juvenile delinquency in New Haven.”

Teen Club—the Big
Brother Way

LUB ONEeg-TEEN, the brand new youth recrea-
C tion center which made its bow at Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, the week of VVashington’s Birthday
is interesting for five reasons:

In downright “snazziness” (to use our idea of
a teen age expression), Club One-g-Teen could
make any number of commercial spots anywhere
sit up and take notice.

It was initiated and presented to the City Coun-
cil and City Recreation Commission to be adminis-
trated by the Young Men’s Bureau, junior division
of the City’s Chamber of Commerce. To make the
club possible, the Bureau raised a solid $16,000—
the contributions of civic-minded business organi-
zations and individuals—one individual, in par-
ticular.

The Young Men’s
Bureau received incal-
culable help, according
to the president of the
Young Men’s Bureau
himself, when going got
so rough as to be almost
hopeless, from a single
individual—another
business man in the city.

Although juvenile de-
linquency entered into
arousing Bureau inter—
est in the project in the
initial stages, the termr
was soon dropped. The
project became purely
recreational in aim.

What started the
Young Men’s Bureau
off on the project which
was to ‘_ mean seven
months of hard work
and plenty of discour-
agement P For one thing,
the Bureau is a project-
minded crew. Since
1041, for example, the

v

"Boy Meets Girl" at the Refreshment Bar

 

city of Cedar Rapids has had a beautiful swim-
ming pool in lovely Ellis Park, thanks to the
Young Men’s Bureau. It was their project. ‘ ,

While Cedar Rapids has no acute or soaring
juvenile delinquency figures, Navy cadets at Coe
College and ASTP students at near-by Iowa Uni-
versity have put week-end recreation places at a
premium. The Young Men’s Bureau talked about
the situation among themselves. At a state meet-
ing of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, the
Cedar Rapids Bureau suggested that the Chamber
give some attention to youth problems, and vol-
unteered to take the subject as a project.-

President of the Young Men’s Bureau, six foot
four ex-football player Dick Buresh, appointed a
committee of twelve with forty-five members to
make a real study of Cedar Rapids’ youth activi-
ties. Some of the activities studied, in addition to
recreation, were employment, parent c00peration,
youth leadership. As the survey progressed and
results were tabulated, one finding was repeated
again and again: There was no really nice place
for the young crowd to go. '

The survey of youth activities hadstarted in
May. It took about a
month to polish 0E. The
first of July, the Bureau
campaign for a really
nice place for the high-
schoolers of Cedar
Rapids was on.

“Four or five times
at least, we hit snags
that seemed like the
end,” Dick Buresh
points out in telling the
story of the club. After
spending weeks looking
for the ideal location
and making all plans for
it, the building chosen
for the new club was
suddenly rented to an-
other organization.

After a second loca-
tion was finally found
(above a store, next to
the city’s nicest and
largest movie), priority
headaches set in. Essen-
tial equipment seemed
unattainable. After
weeks of maneuvering,

RECREATION

THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS! ‘tl

If it's complete modernity

you're looking for. you'll
find it at the Youth Center
in Cedar Rapids. which has

a membership ofover2. IOO

the Bureau would finally
think an essential landed.
Plans would be made ac—
cordingly. Suddenly, every—
thing would again become
. unattainable. -

Throughout all the other
problems, there were re-
curring financial snags.
Came one that looked like
'.“the end.” However, a
single business man out—
side the Bureau organiza—
tion came- to the rescue
then—“and at other succeeding crises. Other civic-
minded organizations and individuals joined the
list of contributors.

Finally, after months of day—in—and-out hard
work, with much of the endeavor and more and
more of the work rolled up by fewer and fewer
helpers, things began to materialize. On Decem—
ber 16th, The Cedar Rapids Gazette carried the
news to the city: “Plan Youth Recreation Center.”
On December 17th, the chairmen and secretaries
of the various youth committees were announced.
January 30th the youth governing board detailed
plans and announced a drive for membership.
Early in February the director and assistant di—
rector were hired. At the same time the grand
opening week was announced: two nights for a par-
ents’ preview; one night for youth at large to
“come see.” On Saturday, February 26th, the
Young Men’s Bureau and Recreation Commission
were to formally present the club to the high-
schoolers. An on-the-spot radio broadcast of the
festivities was scheduled. A centrally located,
really attractive place of their own had become a
reality for Cedar Rapids’ high-schoolers.

How is the Club organized? It’s definitely the
high—schoolers’ own. They will have complete charge
under the executive committee, which aims to be
as representative of the city as the youth board is
for the high-schoolers. It includes two members
from the Recreation Commission, a representative

MAY 1944

 

Photo by Cedar Rapids Gazette

from the School Board, a representative from the
Ministerial Association, a priest, two women at
large from different sections of the city, two mem—
bers from the Young Men’s Bureau, two from the
Chamber of Commerce, and as an ex—officio mem-
ber, the director of the Playground and Recreation

Commission.

Youth? There are fourteen members on the
youth governing board: president, secretary, and
two members from each of the committees—mem-
bership, finance, public relations, house, entertain-
ment, policy, and employment. Each chairman has
twelve people on his committee.

Membership is open to all pupils from the ninth
through the twelfth grades at a yearly membership
fee of $1.50. Those outof school working may
join if they are from fourteen through seventeen

years of age.

Temporarily, at least, the Club will be open every
day of the week. Monday through Thursday,
hours are from 3 to IO, Friday and Saturday,
they’re 3 to midnight. Sunday, the club will be
Open from 2 to 10. It is hoped to have a real dance
orchestra every Saturday night. The big aim of
the Young Men’s Bureau, the Executive Board,
and the Recreation Commission is, to quote R. L.
Sweet, one of the most hard working of the Bu-

92 THOSE YOUNG FOLKS OF OURS!

reau members, "We want the Club One-g-Teen
to be a recreation center, not a juvenile delin-

quency clinic.”

What makes the Club One-g-Teen so “snazzy”?
It has the gay coloring and soft lighting the
“bobby sock” crowd goes for. The reception lounge
with its blonde wood furniture, Chartreuse drapes
against floor length windows, and mulberry up-
holstered davenports and low comfortable lounge
chairs is as “swish” as the movie scenes. The
snack bar serves everything from malteds to ham-

burgers and shoe string potatoes.

Club One-9—Teen, too, has the contrast of a
teen-ager’s moods. The second floor is as rustic
as the first floor is modern. It has wonderful rafter
ceilings and mellow-toned brick walls. It’s the sort
of place where the freshman boys will feel at home
at the billiard or ping-pong tables. It’s a place
where the whole gang can be the “kids” they really
are. It’s the games and activities Hoormoffering
everything from pool to Chinese checkers. The
first floor is the dancing floor, although “strollers”
will be provided on the second Hoor to offer music
for the game-minded. Thirty booths line the dance
floor and offer a chummy place to sip a coke or
enjoy a sundae.

Dick Buresh has some advice for those cities or
organizations considering a similar enterprise:
(I) If remodelling and equipping an old building,
check equipment available; (2) Check delivery
dates; (3) Consider the necessity of satisfying
local business concerns; (4) Before any publicity
of any kind, before any campaign, there must be
a person-to-person drive to get the idea of the
center across. In doing this, stay away from argu—
mentative issues. Two of these issues in Cedar
Rapids, at least, could have been club hours and
membership age. The big problem to iron out, in
the opinion of Dick Buresh, is system and method
of control.

After listening to the story of how this young
men’s organization worked everything out while
at the time carrying on their own individual busi-
ness enterprises, our personal advice would be:
“Prepare for work.” Dick Buresh admitted that
one grim night he figured up the time he had spent.
Translating it into dollars and cents, it amounted
to $2,000 worth.

All workers, however, end on the same note:
“It was all worth it! Every minute! Every
headache !”

Manhasset’s "Juke Box"

By, BEATRICE F. LIPSETT

ERHAPS YOU SAW the March of Time movie
P entitled “Youth in a Time of Crisis.” If so,
for a few seconds you glimpsed the “Juke Box” of
Manhasset, Long Island—the result of a commu-
nity effort to give the teen-agers a place of their
own.

Ours is a community comprised mainly of over-
privileged children. Nevertheless, the most fre-
quently voiced request during a round table discus-
sion of their problems was for a “club room of.
their own———not part of school.”

Since the town’s Recreation Committee acts as
a part of the School Community Association, a
request to the School Board for funds for a full-
time recreation leader was made—but turned down.
We had expected the clubroom supervision and
activities to be part of this director’s job. How-
ever, the committee set out to prove the need for
a leader by showing in various ways how much the.
young people wanted a gathering place of their own.

The use of a long, narrow store was donated
and liability insurance secured. Because it was
vacation time, and no committees met, it fell to two
women to get the work started—wone, a talented
artist; the other, a mother and housewife. Over a
period of six weeks we got together about one
hundred boys and girls and a small art committee,
all under the schedule chairman.

Ceiling and walls had to be painted, Venetian
blinds designed on the windows, benches and bar-
rel chairs made, cushions sewed, juke box covered
and painted, piano decorated, lamp shades made,
art work done on the walls, and a dozen other
“dressing-up” jobs completed.

Because there were no funds, and at that point
no definite organization behind us, we worked with
scrap wood, old paint—anything to keep costs
down. Except for a decorating plan and a deter-
mination that the young people must do most of i
the work to feel the club belonged to them, we
were steaming ahead, quite unorganized. It took .
about six weeks of hard work and concentrated
effort to get ready to open.

In the beginning it was felt that the work would i
be justified if the club served the needs of about ,
twenty-five people—mostly freshmen and sopho-
mores—_—as the social pattern of seniors is usually I

(Continued on page 107)

RECREATION

 

Courtesy San F rqncisco Recreation Department

Teen Age Activities in San Francisco

HE RECREATION DEPARTMENT of San Fran-
Tcisco has always sponsored teen age activities

at all its units. It is, however, maintaining a
number of teen age centers which differ in setup
in that the young people themselves plan and con-
duct their own activities under the leadership of a
director.

They Grew Out of Dances

These centers are the direct outcome of the
social dances for teen—agers which the Recreation
Department has successfully conducted since Octo—
ber 1942 with an average weekly attendance of
1,650. The young people have taken turns serving
on the dance committeesand have done this in
such a capable and enthusiastic manner that it not
only assured success for the venture but developed
an entirely new and previ—
ously unrecognized leadership
quality. Many playground di-

augurated a junior leadership
system, but never to the ex—
tent to which it is now being
developed in the teen age
centers. It is a credit to the
young people’s udgment that
they have an excellent under-
standing of their responsibili—
ties and are ,ready and eager
to abide by the letter of the
law of proper social life. °

MAY 1944

With the influx into San Francisco ot
rectors in the past have in— , thousands of war workers and their tam-
ilies, as well as a large number of teen
age boys and girls unaccompanied by
parents ,the provision of adequate recre-
ation for this group is being given spe-
cial attention by the Recreation Depart-
ment. There are now nine centers for the
exclusive use of the teen-agers. and many
other recreational opportunities are in-
creasingly being made available to them.

The facts given here were taken from
San Francisco ReCreation (February
7th), issued by the Recreation Department.

Teen-agers, being neither adults nor children,
yearn for the company of those of their own age
and apparently do not enjoy themselves with as
much abandon among their younger brothers and
sisters. And so the exclusive feature of social
dances for the teen age group was encouraged,
with members having their own numbered cards,
bearing their signatures. To acquire membership
one must live in the neighborhood and apply to
the director in charge of the center. Approxi—
mately 4,000 boys and girls have received mem-
bership cards since these dances were organized.
Letters are sent to the parents advising them of
their children’s membership and the day and hour
of dances, and they are invited to visit the centers
occasionally.

The membership cards must be presented and
checked against the books by .
a reception committee on .the
evening of the dance before
the holder of the card is per—
mitted to enter the “inner
sanctum” of the teen age
dance. Here dancing such as
particularly delights the heart
of youth is the order of the
evening, to the accompani-
ment of the usual teen age,
banter, the meaning of which
the average grownup can
only guess!

The dance committees

93

 

94 TEEN AGE ACTIVITIES IN SAN FRANCISCO

usually plan a special theme for their dances once
a month. This includes hard—times or barn dances,
semiformal affairs; and special decorations such
as leis for Hawaiian dances, stars and moons for
a New Moon dance, etc. For many of these special
events the young people spend weeks in prepara-
tion and sometimes the younger children assist
them.

The dance membership has also turned to con-
structive war work in the Junior Red Cross and
to the making of toys for child care centers. One
group purchased a War Bond for their playground
and bought some athletic equipment for service—
men overseas. On one occasion a former play-
ground associate, who had entered the armed
forces, sent word that the men in near-by camps
were in need of coat hangers, whereupon a drive
was held by all the teen age groups who brought
in several thousand hangers for the camps.

Many of the playground boys in the armed
forces when home on leave return to spend an
evening at the dances which they helped organize.

Eight of the dance groups, at the suggestion of
one of the committees, participated in the Third
\Var Bond drive by requiring the purchase of a
\Var Stamp for admission to dances. The dance
balls were decorated in patriotic colors for the oc—
casion, and girls in the uni-

form Of the AWVS sold

The young people at Sun‘nydale Center l'trip

stamps. The evening brought a total of $167.35 in
stamps and $250 in War Bonds.

These dances have a deep social significance
since they help boys and girls find their place in
teen age social life. Excessive use of makeup or
startling clothes are frowned upon by the group,
and frequently individuals must make adjustments
before they qualify for the group standard. As a
result of participation on the committees, members
have developed a more active social as well as
school life.

Youthful approval of these dances is enthusias—
tically expressed by such remarks as, “It’s swell
to have your own crowd.” “We think the dances
are swell—something to do on Friday night.”
"We aren’t trying to make money, just want a
little on hand for decorations and occasional re-
freshments. It’s all for fun and we don’t need a
lot of money.”

Dance music is provided by automatic phono-
graphs and public address systems. The North
[leach group recently presented three records to
the Portola dance group for their first dance. At
some units orchestras are being formed by the
members and occasionaly they play for some of the
special dances.

Thirteen weekly dances are already being con-

ducted, with seven more on

(Continued on page 110)

the light fantastic" with obvious abandon!

 

Courtesy S gm Francisco Recreation Department

RECREATION

Youth Goes to Parliament

0 MATTER how heavy the
N weight of bombs thrown

upon it, no matter how
destructive the enemy’s
flames may be, Parliament—-
the “speaking place” and
shrine of free speech—re-
mains the living core of Bri—
tain’s great democracy. ..

Its tradition is of the most
ancient and its practice vitally
young. 80cm after the Con-
quest, King William I held
“deep speech” with his Coun-
cil, and in the 13th century,
when the liberties of the people had been recog-
nized by the signing of the great Magna Carta at
Runnymede, this method of governing by con—
ference had earned for the Common Council of the
Realm the name of Parliament.

The young people of Britain today have the
pioneer spirit. Nobody watching them at work
and at leisure, in national service, college, school,
club or home could for a moment consider them
old-fashioned, fettered by tradition, or in any way

stuck in the mud of outworn systems and ideas. .

Taking a cross section of boys and girls in their
teens, drawn from every part of the country, with
dissimilar educations, economic conditions and
domestic backgrounds, one factor stands out the
same in all.

They take nothing for granted. They demand
that the shutters shall be removed and the clearest
light of knowledge shed on every side of life.
Politics and history, religion, art, economics, sex—
it does not matter what subject is in mind—they
will not accept the tenets of others blindfold. They
are unsatisfied until they can see the bare bones
for themselves, and on those bare bones they are
prepared by patient study to mould the flesh of
their own opinions.

This does not mean that the young people of
Britain discount the knowledge and experience of
their elders. Farrfrom it. They are avid for help,
but every lecturer finds that the young‘now are
the most exacting of all audiences because they are
so hungry for truth that only pure reason will
satisfy them, and the specialist may find it diffi—

MAY 1944

By ELIZABETH SPRIGGE

 

We are very glad indeed to publishI in
connection with the stories of some of
the Youth Centers in our own country.
this account of the Youth Parliaments
which the young people of Great Britain
are conducting in an effort to keep them-
selves informed of world developments.

Miss Sprigge. who is associated with
the work being done in the schools and

youth clubs of London's East End, is the
daughter of the late Sir Squire Sprigge.

 

cult to descend from the top
story of the tower he has
built in years of thought and
study to examine and ex-
plain the structure of its foun-
dation. But if he fails to do
this, his young audience will
be unimpressed by the pin-
nacles, however lofty and
even if crowned with glory.

But youth, searching for its
own pattern for the future,
does not discard tradition
merely because it is old, any
more than it extols it for this
reason, and so boys and girls have found that in
order to enlarge and crystalize their views they
can make profitable use of their country’s ancient.
democratic system of government.

Most youth clubs, whether of one sex or mixed,
are run by a management committee of adults and
young pe0ple together, and subcommittees of the
boys and girls themselves. In addition, for inter—
club discussions of general affairs, some organiza-
tions have instituted central Parliaments to which
local clubs send their elected members.

Such Youth Parliaments are, in fact, miniatures
of Britain’s House of Commons and closely follow
its traditional procedure. This experience has
taught the members that Parliament, for all its
name, is no mere common—room for the airing of
views or the listening to one’s own voice, but a
highly developed organization for orderly debate.

Thus, at the opening session, as in Britain's
Parliament itself, the members elect their Speaker,
who is the chairman of the House of Commons.
and he or she, followed by the other members,
takes the oath of allegiance to the throne. Some-
times members prefer to have an adult club leader
as Speaker; others elect one of the ordinary mem-
bers. The Cabinet Ministers are then chosen, partly
on specialized interest in or knowledge of Specific
subjects such as health or agriculture, partly on
ability in speaking.

There is plenty of gaiety about these proceed—
ings, but once the offices are settled, all remarks
of members must be addressed to “Mr. Speaker in
the chair,” and no member is referred to by name

95

‘lti

but as “my Honorable or
Noble Friend, the Right
Honorable Gentleman or
Gallant Member,” as is done
in the actual House of Com-
mons.

In only one respect do
some Youth Parliaments
differ from the mother in-
stitution. The members gen-

erally speak as Independents rather than as mem-
bers of a particular political party, whereas in the
actual House of Commons, although there are In-
dependents, they are the exception rather than

the rule.

YOUTH GOES TO PARLIAMENT

"It is not easy to be young in Britain
today. Wages may be high, but work is
hard and good times and good things are
scarce' and the happy life all boys and
girls dream of is almost as far from them
as a scene in a film. Nevertheless these
young people, contending with hard condi-
tions and often separated from those they
love' are of their own choice learning to
understand the problems facing the world.''

In one London Youth Parliament the present

“Prime Minister” is a blind boy employed as a
stenographer in the Ministry of Labor. He is an
active member of his own local club Where, among

other activities, he
enjoys a first class
game of chess.
This Parliament
takes public at-
fairs very seri-
ously. Its “Presi-
dent of the Board
of Education,” a
girl working in the
Entertainment
Tax Department
of the Board of
Trade, presented
to the House an
education bill
based on Mr. But-
ler’s “White
Paper” (as British
(iovernment offi—
cial publications
are called). This
she did in a man-
11er which stimu-
lated a construc-
tive debate among
the girls and boys,
who had their own
recent or present
education as a cri—
terion of the sug-
gested reforms.
Their own ideas
a ere naturally

more drastic than the Gov-
ernment’s, for that is the
tendency of the young. At
the end of the debate the
House divided in correct
manner into “Ayes” and
“Noes,” and the bill was
passed by a large majority.

The “Minister of Recon-
struction” is training as an

architectural surveyor, so housing and land prob- "
lems are of natural interest to him, and he was
able to produce a White Paper of his own, partly

(Continued on. page 108)

The Co-operative Union hold'ytwo summer
schools in Britain, with about forty-five
boys and girls between the ages of IS and
I9 in residence for a week. Discussion

groups are most popular at these schools.

 

Con rtesy British Information Services

RECREATION

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

GR] C ULTURAL Service by Boy Scouts— r

1943. 100,000,000 Boy Scout hours were
realized in food production and conservation in
1943. Seventy-five work camps of more than five
days were reported. The slogan for 1944 is “Pro—
duce and Conserve, Share and Play Square.” The
camp garden, the tree nursery, and the conserva-
tion projects will become as important as the
swimming pool.

Camps. In 1940 the Federal Forest Service
leased for 99 years to the State of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations 11,000 acres of land.
The State agreed to practice modern forestry
,methods, to grow a wildlife crop, and to practice
1 camping. As far as we know, this is the first time
that a state has underwritten a public school camp.

‘ The Rhode Island Wildlife Federation is planning
its second conservation workshop for leaders.

Food. “The Food We Live By; For Use By
Young People Interested in 'Their Own Food and
Nutrition Problems.” Prepared by the U. S.
Office of Education, U. S. Government Printing
Office, Washington, D. C. 1943. 14 pp. Illustrated.
Price 5 cents. ‘

)1

“Forest Fires, Prevent. Lumber is essential
to our war industries and military efforts. This
poster calls for greater care in preventing needless
destruction of forests. Size 20” x 28”. Free from
Bureau of Public Inquiries, Office of War Infor-
mation, 1400 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W ., VVash—
ington 25, D. C.

Forests, School. Herberster School Forest, Bay—
field County, W isconsin, harvested $2,600 worth
of timber in 1940 from a 40-acre ten-year-old
plantation. They expect a
similar yield in another ten
years. Ohio schools can
obtain free of charge from
the State forest nurseries
enough seedlings to refor-
est one acre of land.

Ritter, William Emerson.
1856-1944. Born on a Wis—
consin farm. Encouraged by
an intelligent father. Trained
in teaching at Wisconsin

MAY 1944

" 'I shall never make you repeat what you
have been told, but will constantly ask you
what you have seen for yourselves.' Thus
spoke Louis Agassiz at the opening of his
School of Natural History at Penikese
Island. Buzzard's Bay. in I873. Of his stu-
dents. ninety per cent were teachers.
Nature recreation. as such, had not then
been born. Agassixl who also said 'Study
Naturel not books.' would have gained great
satisfaction in seeing so many look to
' Nature for sheer enjoyment."—Cap’n Bill.

State Normal School (1884). Studied under the
master-teacher Joseph Le Conte. Harvard, Ph.D.
(1893). Friendship with E. W. Scripps, news-
paper owner. First director of Scripps Institution
of Oceanography (1909). Wrote “The Unity of
the Organism” and “The Natural History of Our
Conduct.” With Scripps founded Science Service
(1921) as the institution for making science un—
derstandable to the public.

“Science, A Treasury of,” edited by Harlow
Shapley, Samuel Rapport and Helen Wright.
Harper and Brothers, New York City, 1943. An

anthology. 716 pp. $3.95.

Science Talent. About 15,000 high school sen-
iors competed in the third annual talent search
conducted for the Westinghouse Science Scholar-
ships. A talent aptitude examination “and an essay
entitled “My Scientific Project” were a part of
the examination. The forty fortunate finalists were
invited to a five day Science Talent Institute in
\Vashington during March. Eleven thousand dol-
lars in science scholarships was awarded to the
forty winners. The project was conducted by
Science Service, 1719 N Street, N. VV., VVash-
ington 6, D. C.

"ll/’osliington National Monument.” Chicago,
Illinois. Department of the Interior, National Park
Service, 1943. (Folder, 6 pp.) Illustrated. Single
copies free. '

Wildlife Federation, Rhode Island. The State
Department of Agriculture and Conservation has
published the report of the Seventh Annual Meet—
ing: The Federation is made up of sportsmen,
naturalists, and educators interested in conserva-
tion. A film library, a work-
shop for leaders, and legis-
lation are featured. 31 pp.
Mimeographed. State
House, Providence, Rhode
Island.

“Wood, New Magic In.”
Third of a series, published
by American Forest Prod—
ucts Industries, Inc., 1319

18th Street, N. \V., Wash-
ington, D. C. 33 pp. Free.

97

" WORLD AT PLAY

i- ’
O

o v
3 
a 4n n. A».-. K r m, .  a ,. ._ . .

Courtesy Chester, Pa., Recreation Board

THE FIFTH annual
playground pageant
conducted by the De-
partment of Public
Recreation in Bethlehrgm, Pennsylvania, took the
form of a demonstration of a day on the play—
ground. On the program were flag raising, salute,
activities of the clean-up squad and safety patrol,
games of all types, apparatus play, handcraft, story
hour, and similar activities. A handcraft exhibit
was set up so that parents and friends might see
what had been done on the playground.

A Day at the Play-
ground

SPEAKING before the
Recreation Executives
Association of West-
chester County, New
York, Ford Frick, President of the National
League of Professional Base Ball Clubs, recently
stressed the importance of recreation in promoting
a better postwar understanding between nations.

“Recreation Is In-
ternational”

 

98

“Extending Education”

 

:-

T he recreation programs of the future, he stated,
will not be county-wide, nor state-wide, nor nation—
wide but international in scope, and youths of all
countries will meet on a common understanding of
good sportsmanship.

“Training which recreation executives represent
is symbolic of the democracy for which we are
lighting—the right of boys and girls to enjoy life.
to play, to think, to say what they think and to
meet other boys and girls on a common ground.
There is no better place for the practice of de-
mocracy than on a playground——-no question of
color, creed, what your father or mother may do

for a living."

NUMBER I, Volume I
of Extending Educa-
tion, a printed bulletin
published by National Camp, Life Camps, Inc.,
14 West 49th Street, New York 20, appeared re-
cently and will be issued several times a year. The
purpose of the bulletin, edited by Dr. L. B. Sharp,
is to discover and describe specific projects by
which education is extended into the outdoors, and
each bulletin will contain a treatment of some sig-
nincant discussion of camping education in action.
A copy of the first issue, published in January and
devoted to the teacher training project at National
Camp in which Dr. William G. Vinal (Cap’n Bill)
is playing a part, may be secured free on applica-
tion to Dr. Sharp.

SERVICEMEN of the
55th General Hospital
of' Camp Joseph T.
Robinson, Arkansas,
are members and stockholders in the newly—formed
Recreation, Incorporated, which sponsors enter-
tainment of every description for the men at the
camp— baseball, basketball, swimming, movies,

Recreation, Incor-
porated

dances, parties, etc. Thus far Recreation, Inc., has

provided social affairs at the USO, water sports at
the Y.M.C.A., basketball games at the Field
House, table tennis in the day room, and maga—
zines and books in the recreation lounge. The men
who started this club have suggested that other
similar units organize a Recreation, Inc., of their
own to bolster morale and give services on a large
scale as they have done at Camp Robinson.

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLA Y 99

A DRIVEFOB BOME

m? with a "Tennis-Eye”$mash

 

 
 
 
  
  

“a
'1

U

f\  Tough! You bet it’s been tough on that road from
 Salerno! . . . and you can bet there’s many a man

there Who is thanking his stars today for the

hours he spent playing tennis.

Many a soldier in the drive on Rome knows he
owes mainly to his tennis experience the quick,
trained eye, and alert reactions, that often mean
safety and success in war.

Men and women preparing for war service—or
“all out” in the battle for production—can get in
trim and keep fit while having real fun playing

IT’S WILSON tennis. For finest rackets, and all the best in
TODAY IN SPORTS tennis equipment, ask for “Wilson’s.”
‘ EQUlPMENT Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York
* and other leading cities.

 

10101011 ,»

TENNIS EQUIPMENT

Wilson Athletic
Goods Mfg. Co., Inc.
Chicago Plant

   

Youth Farm Volunteers Needed_The need ment of Agriculture. Recreation executives are
for youth victory farm volunteers for 1944 was urged to cooperate in every way in their localities
stressed at a recent meeting of the Ofiice of Ci- by calling the attention of youth participants in
vilian Defense in Washington by the U. S. Depart— their programs to this need and by offering to help

MIGHTY SPECTACLE! '  O U T S T A N D I N e .
£ilgg§g;xg¢1¢m . ., MOTION PICTURES Adventure I”
l] 4' h“ ‘  .“ tun for '
JEAN ARTHUR [tr  R E C R E A T | O N umqgglgggm
“'"“"""”°‘°‘” ‘ MARSHALL-BRUCE
C N T E R S A COLUMBIA PICTURE
SEND FOR CATALOG '
WALT DISNEY’S of IbMM SOUND GENE AUTRY
Mickey Mouse & Donald Duck FEATURES . . . WESTERNS MUSICAL WESTERNS

CARTOONS . . . SERIALS

m —. '° World's Largest Distributors

    

w The
    RUSSELL C. ROSHON
, ’ .  o R e A N I z A T I o N ; Bkown
c3333 ,_   ' ‘ DEPT. NR—2200 RKO BUILDING  .  J' .
Based Months comic sIri Nb  RADIO CITY NEW YORK _-__,.-- Agg'mga
9 "‘3 ° 1' r16 — Coost—to—Coost Branches — 16

MAY 1944

100 W ORLI) AT PLA Y

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

I" ’ A" r -_ 7-
0 F SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

.   The Voit Ball of Tomorrow

is worth waiting for!

Today Voit’s complete output of
super Synthetic-Rubber-Covered
Athletic Equipment is going to our
far-flung fighting fronts—to help
maintain morale among Uncle Sam’s
boys! Early in the fall, we expect to
fill essential civilian needs. Remem-

' ber, the Voit Ball ofyTomorrow's
worth waiting for!

Write for Illustrated Price. List.
BUY WAR BONDS REGULARLY

Mfgd. by W. .l. Voit Rubber Corp.,1600 E. 25th St, Los Angeles ll, Calif.
Chicago Branchrvlao No. Wacker Drive, ‘Zone 6

 

agricultural leaders in planning their recreation
programs for youth during their periods of farm
service.

San Francisco’s Recreation Budget Increased
—The Recreation Commission of San Francisco,
California, has recently approved its budget of
$1,110,574 for the year 1944-45, an increase of
$323,426 over the approved budget for 1943-44.
The budget includes special appropriations for
teen age centers, school recreation centers, recrea-
tion services in war housing units and postwar
planning.

Church Leaders Learn to Play— Oklahoma

City held a community-wide recreation training
institute last January, conducted by Mrs. Anne
Livingston of the National Recreation Associa-
tion. Ninety-five agencies sent leaders to the in-
stitute for training. The institute was well or-
ganized in advance. An interesting example of
preinstitute publicity is that sent out by the Okla—
homa City Council of Churches:

“Truism: Churches are dark most nights of the

week; Honky Tonks are lighted and open
each night.

“Problem: What can church leaders do to in—
crease and improve wholesome recreation at
the church? -

“Opportunity: Oklahoma City is bringing Mrs.
Anne Livingston here for a week’s theory and
practice in wholesome fun. This is open to

EVERYBODY, especially social life directors and ‘ .

leaders of children and youth. Adult leaders,
this is for you too! Preacher’s are urged to
attend.”

Women’s Community Clubs—The Municipal
Recreation Commission of Syracuse, New York,
in 1943 sponsored nine community clubs in schools,
community houses, and libraries. Over 800 adult
women who made up the membership contributed
articles to the Red Cross, worked for local hos-
pitals, and enjoyed social recreation.

Thanksgiving in Cairo—One of the never to
be forgotten memories of the momentous Cairo
Conference will be the Thanksgiving dinner at

RECREATION

 

7’ m

15 CONTROLLED QUlCKLY AND EFFECTIVELY
WITH

out! SANI-SOIL-sn

Playground of Pelham High School,
Pelham, New York, a typical user of
Gulf Sani-Soil-Set. Note the clean
appearance of uniforms and shoes.

 

 

    

ls.”—

   
 

a';

   

Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set prevents
the growth of grass on areas treated and reduces clean-
ing and dusting inside near-by buildings to a minimum.

- /.- . ,, 
'- ' " .é:'-:r~.~.-"~' ’-
\';t§:: i
.

 

.n,’

 .  ‘

y ‘ . I ’L. ‘77.» ‘- ‘V 2
: I"

 4" L :

.-.s 4y?" ‘

:-'.'-* -

' I

.. $4.?"-

‘h-‘t‘I-‘cu.  " .

.       Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
 tion about this modern, Proven dust allayer.

Highly Effective—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set completely eliminates
dust annoyance immediately after application. No long
waiting periods are necessary before the ground is ready

l for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished by the
action of the compound in adhering to and weighing
down dust particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-
sesses valuable germicidal properties.

mail this coupon today

  

long lasting—Because of its extremely low volatility and Gulf Oil Corporation . Gulf Refining Company R

 

 

 

- . . . . . . I 3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa. 
Insohlblhty “1 water:  sanl'SOII'Set remalns 3330 I Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet, Gulf
tive for long periods one application Per season or year : Sani-Soil-Set—the modern proven agent for controlling dust.”
is usually sufhcient. I Name
. . o - o - I Company
EaSIIy Applied—Gulf Sam-Scil-Set lS free-Howmg, easy :
and pleasant to use. It can be applied by sprinkling can I Title
01' sprinkling truck. and spreads quickly and uniformly. I Address

 

102 WORLD AT PLAY

W ith the

AR M Y
N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Producrs are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.

The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

which President Roosevelt played host to states-
men, diplomats and soldiers. There was the din-
nerm—with everything from soup to nuts—and
there was also the fun which followed when Presi—
dent Roosevelt sang a ditty of his own composing.
Prime Minister Churchill executed a dance as he
waved his cigar and Sergeant Jerry Kelly of Long
Island sang “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling” to
the great delight of the Prime Minister’s daughter.

But the party would have lacked its special
flavor had it not been for the famous nine piece
Desert Orchestra which responded to aII the re—
quests made—and they were many—until some-
one asked for “Pistol Packin’ Mama.”- This, the
orchestra said, was too recent for them—they’d
been rverseas so long.

Says The New Y orle Times in commenting on
the party, “It was a characteristic American sing,
old folks’ concert, young folks’ concert, with per—
haps a little reminiscent whiff of the cooperative
joyt usness of the Captain’s Dinner. It was a
thoroughly democratic blowout ,and will be en—
joyed by everybody that reads about it. And it is
reassuring to find men who have so many per-

plexing questions and high responsibilities in their
day’s work able to take a few hours off for
pleasure.”

The James H. Galloway Park—Decatur, Il-
linois, recently dedicated and renamed one of the
city playgrounds after James H. Galloway who
served as a member of the Park Board from the
time the Decatur Park District was organized in
1924 until his death in 1942. The citation, which
was read at the dedication, said in 'part:

“It is Fitting that this Park and Playground,
situated as it is in his own neighborhood, should
bear his name. In his memory and as a monu-
ment to his tireless, unselfish and understanding
service, this park is renamed and dedicated. May
his spirit of service be perpetuated through this
memorial—The James H. Galloway Park.”

Easter at Oglebay ParkTOver 800 people
attended the sixteenth annual Easter Sunrise Ser-
vice at Oglebay Park, Wheeling, West Virginia,
where an impressive and colorful service was held
arranged by the Department of Evangelism of the
Greater \Vheeling Council of Churches in coopera-
tion with Oglebay Institute. Four ministers from
\Nheeling churches participated in the service, and
choirs from a number of churches took part.

The summer Vesper Services, held for many
years at Oglebay Park during July and August,
are being planned for the coming summer. Speak-
ers of prominence from various sections of the
country will attend, and other features will be
added to make this year the most outstanding yet
planned in this popular religious activity at the
park.

National Paddle Tennis Tournament 1944—
The United States Paddle Tennis Association, in
cooperation with the Parkchester Recreation De—
partment, announces open championships in pad—
dle tennis for men and women to be held at Park-
chester, a residential community of the East Bronx,
New York City. Finals in women’s singles and
mixed doubles will be held on June 11th; men’s
singles and doubles on June 18th. Further informa—
tion regarding conditions of entry may be secured
from national headquarters of the United States

Paddle Tennis Association, Madison Square Boys’
Club, 301 East 29th Street, New York 16, N. Y.

RECREATION

THE JOSEPH LEE MEMORIAL CONTEST FOR RECREATION LITERATURE 103

The Joseph Lee Memorial

Contest tor Recreation
Literature

HE SOCIETY OF RECREATION WORKERS of

America announces its 1944 Joseph Lee Me-
morial Contest for Recreation Literature. As in
past years, the purpose is to encourage profes-
sional recreation workers and college graduate
students majoring in recreation to write not so
much on the philosOphy of the movement as on
practical and technical phases of recreation.

The contest is open to members in good stand-
ing in the Society and to graduate students major-
ing in recreation who are certihed by the dean of
the graduate school in which they are studying.

Further information may be secured from Chase
H. Hammond, Chairman of the Joseph Lee Me-
‘ morial Committee, 1419 East Fourth Street,
Waterloo, Iowa.

Boys’ Clubs Observe Anniversary—A quar-
ter of a million members of Boys’ Clubs of
America celebrated National Boys’ Club Week
from April 10 to 16, 1944. This occasion also
marked the thirty-eighth birthday of the boys’
club movement centered chiefly in the New Eng-
land cities in its early days in 1906 when a feder-
ation was founded by a group of leaders interested
in sharing the experienCes and methods of working
with boys. Today 240 clubs throughout the United
States own_ Clubhouses and camps valued at
$22,000,000.

More About Last Summer's
Playgrounds

(Continued from page 62)

automobiles, was set up in the Public Square,
centrally located in the downtown shopping area.
Here mothers intent on shopping were urged to
leave their little children as long as four hours if
they wished to be away that length of time. The
fee was a 10 cent war stamp for any period less
than two hours and two 10 cent stamps for a
period longer than two hours and less than four.

The playground was supervised by one paid
worker and volunteer help from the recreation
center’s Victory Leaders, a group of thirteen to
sixteen year old girls anxious to help in the war
effort. The twenty-four girls who volunteered

MAY 1944

 

  
     
 
   
       
  
 
  
      
    
   
       

  

For young and old

HOBBY IDEAS

in these Bruce books

  

New—silhouette cutting for amateurs

1. A   Jean Bennett

The author’s own exquisite shadow artistry inspires
imitation of this inexpensive, gratifying pastime.

$2.00

Authentic articles of an old race

2. INDIANCRAFT W. B’en. Hunt

“The man who teaches the Indians how” tells how
to make Indian wearing apparel, shield, crooked

knife, etc. $2.75

  

   

   

More projects, of materials at hand

3. INDIAN AND CAMP
 W. Ben. Hunt

Wigwam, totem pole, tepee, peace pipes, ceremonial
bow and arrows, etc., are included in this volume.

$2.50

  

Beautiful imitation marble

4. KEENE CEMENT CRAFT

0. Arnold Radtke Penholders, ash trays, lamps,
bookends can be fashioned by molding Keene
cement as suggested by this author. $2.00

Rudiments of an old art

5. FUNDAMENTALS OF
 Ross C. Gramlet

How to make clever and useful leather articles such
as key cases, belts, purses, book covers, billfolds.

$1.25

Encircle the numbers below which correspond

to the books you want and TAKE THIS AD
TO YOUR BOOKSELLER or send coupon to

The BRUCE PUBLISHING COMPANY

4-405 MONTGOMERY BLDG. MILWAUKEE l, WIS.

BRUCE—MILWAUKEE: Please send me the

books whose numbers I have encircled below:

1 2 3 4 ' 5

Name

Address
City and State RS

'A-lll-ll-Ill-Illll-l-ll

104 MORE ABOUT LAST SUMMER’S PLAYGROUNDS

ACTUAL PHOTO OF TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY. THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

Two-Way Bowling Alleys are now in use all over the United

States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard. WAGS. U.S.O. Clubs. and "Y's."

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new

MAIL COUPON TODAY Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION Name .............................................................. ..
Add ......  .................................................... ..
Iwumv Bowum; couponmon  .................................. ..  ................ ..

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0 Telephone LExing‘lon 2-8828

 

their services were given a live weeks’ training B. Singing Games
course, the outline of which follows: 0 What to Do When JOhm‘Y cries
I 1). Manual Play for Small Children
A. Child Care Training-—A Lifelong Asset 1' Paper dolls 2' sand mOdelmg
B. How a Preschool Child Thinks V
0. Personal Health of a Victory Leader '1 A. Active Games for Small Children
D. Manual Play for Small Children B. Music and Rhythms
1. Sandcraft 2. Paper cutting C. Accident Prevention
II D. Review of Craft Projects
A. Active Games for Small Children r VI
13' Storyfellmg ,, , A. Active Games for Small Children
C. PhySIcal Ability of a Preschool Child B. Review of Singing Games
13' Playground Health Hints C. Review of Child Care Procedure
_ III _ , _ _ D. Conferriiig of Certificates
A. Victory Leader's Responsibilities
B. Singing Games So successful was the playground that it was I
C- Mimetic Play _ felt the service should be made available in 1944
D’ Ming] Play :01: small; Children , , to other shopping districts, and it was suggested
' ay m0 elmg IV' Paper wttmg and paStmg that the business men’s associations of the various
A. Care of Physical Equipment and Safety Measures districts should be approached as posmble sponsors.
on Playgrounds It was thought that filling stations which are

RECREATION

DAY CAMPING 1943 105

closed because of the war might provide facilities
for new checking areas.

And Speaking of Leadership

Last summer a special publicity committee
working with the Birmingham, Alabama, Recrea—
tion Board prepared a questionnaire asking for
volunteer workers. This questionnaire covered
very comprehensively all the abilities and talents
which the Board considered important in volun-
teer workers. ,

The War Neighborhood Club distributed these
questionnaires with explanatory letters to all the
homes in Birmingham and‘also to high school and
junior high students. When these had been re-
turned and tabulated it was found that approxi—
mately iifty volunteer workers had been secured
for art, dramatics, music, storytelling, handcraft,
and all forms of clerical work.

Among the volunteers were two high school
students interested in journalism who gathered
publicity from the playgrounds and pools.

Day Camping I943
(Continued from page 71)

housekeeping duties—gathering wood, clearing up
.the area and building tires.

The noon meal was the highlight of the day.
The children greatly enjoyed the thrill of cooking
out of doors. Camp chores were shared by all the
girls, who alternated in doing dishes and cooking.

Following the noon meal came the rest hour, for
which mattresses and pup tents were provided.
The latter part of the afternoon was spent in crafts
and nature work. Each unit decided during lunch
what it would do in the afternoon. Sometimes it
was making a leaf printing or visiting a rock pile
in search of fossils.

After the craft period, the children cleared up
and made ready for the council lire which con—
cluded the day’s program. This was one of the few
periods of the day when the entire group was
together, and at this time the children were taught

many songs and group games.

NOTE: The Division of Recreation, Federal Security
Agency, Washington, D. C., has issued a Special Recrea-
tion Bulletin (No. 84, April 25, 1944) entitled Day Camp-
ing—— A Wartime Asset. This bulletin will be of interest
to recreation leaders planning day camping programs.

Good Neighbors All

(Continued from page 66)
Older boys’ and girls’ clubs cooperated in the con-

struction of refreshment booths, and the teen age

MAY 1944

 

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

For Playground and
Recreational Departments

Complete Line of

.- ,, ,--;,   :L' .4. ‘ ~

THE P. GOLDSMITH SONS, inc.
JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., ClNClNNATl, OHIO

girls created huge backdrops for the stage from
brown paper and colored chalk. Photographers
took pictures of the iirst and final rehearsal on the
day of the performance. Everyone was breathless.

That evening at 7 :00 P. M. the theater was
crowded. The narrator opened the program in
rhyme:

“So much have we liked our trip so rare

With parents and friends its highlights we share.”

First of all came the procession of iiags carried
by one of the boys’ clubs of the Center. Twenty-
one Bags of the American nations were brought
forward and placed on the stage with the strains
of the national anthems being played in the back-
ground.

“It is not for perfection that we aspire,

In dances, dramatics, handcraft, or attire.
If we can bring just a dashing effect,

We will be happy and all we expect.”

The program was then under way. A group of
Spanish speaking children danced El Jarabe and
Las Chiapanecas in native costumes, and the
smallest boys and girls, dressed as roosters, pre-
tended they were giving a rooster contest. A Boy
Scout troop staged a bull light. Cuba was repre-
sented by a few teen age girls who danced the conga

106 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST?

‘ .l, ,l
.
r

em MATS-PADS
BOXING RINGS

   
   
     

IRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALI.
BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by exports, and. by experiment! workman from
quality materials and told dine! to schools, camps, om

. . V ‘ l'ndopondonf, truly wholes-ah.
' I‘ , in“ NATIONAL svonrs squwmaur counmr
JA r 365 MARQUETTE - rono nu LAC. wu.

fend“ for New (dialog

and by a group who had made their own tom-toms
and maracas. The ten year old girls presented the
Inca ceremonial dance which they had worked out
in the play school project.

The dramatic Argentine tango was done by a

staff worker and partner to the tune of El Choco.

“Our West has romantic cowboys,
While the Argentine has clever gauchos.”

The “bull” reappeared on the stage while a
gaucho tried his hand at lassoing him in the Ar-
gentine manner.

From the jungles of Brazil there appeared the
“little red jungle boy” and his friends, who acted
in rhythmic pantomime the swimming and fishing
life of the jungle while the older girls beat upon
tom-toms and later presented a rhythmic panto-
mime portraying the making of tortillas.

The last number on the program was a group of
older teen age girls who sang “Who’ll Buy My
Pretty Violets?” while they threw their violets into

the audience.

“Our brief fiesta comes to a close,
Exhibits, please, before anyone goes.”

The audience and participants stood to sing the
United States national anthem which was followed
by the recessional 0f fiags.

The fiesta was over and the crowd of 1,000
peoplehand 100 participants drifted off—many
crowded around the food and exhibition booths.
Hot tamales were served by a club of Spanish
speaking women who meet at the Center.

In an evaluation of the summer’s program both
the staff and the children felt that it had been a
truly creative experience. The theme had been
selected by the staff but the activities were planned
by the children after they had been given a back-
ground from which to work. Discussion in as-
sembly periods and small groups stimulated the
children to use arts and crafts, songs, dances, dra-
matics, and puppets to portray native life in the
countries visited. The fiesta was a composite pic-
ture of what had been learned throughout the nine
weeks’ period.

   

What's Happening on +heWes’r Coast?

{Continued from page 79)

ance of every j ob—from the president of the USO
Council to the soldier who repairs a broken lamp
plug.

Because of the unevenness of experience and
ability in this broad cross section of volunteers,
training courses were soon found to be the best
means by which both the volunteer and the pro—
fessional worker could understand each other’s
responsibilities and functions. It became the di-
rector’s job to make the best use of the abilities she
found and to weld undisciplined enthusiasm into
smoothly running teamwork.

In most of the training courses, the first lecture
is devoted to an explanation of USO. Later dis—
cussions take up the specific details of volunteer
work. Personal and psychological adjustments to
be made are discussed; the needs of people are' ex-
plained; the standards to be met are analyzed. The
courses are given on the basis of working together
rather than telling or teaching, and their main pur-
pose is to raise the level of work done and to give
increased security in performing the job. Junior
hostesses, especially, who help entertain the service-
men, learn the functions of a hostess in her own
home. This helps the girls as well as the men to
grow in understanding wholesome social attitudes.
Junior hostesses represent a cross section of the
population, as do the servicemen themselves. And
they help plan, through their own democratic set-
up, for themselves and for their town. Thus, this
experiment in community living will surely have
some carry-over result in the postwar world.

Learning is not confined to one training course,
but continues on the job through conferences with
the professional worker, demonstrations, group
meetings, and reading. Programs grow by ques—
tioning, watching, suggesting, and working. The
volunteer and the professional worker can grow,
too, until a mutually appreciated partnership results
that is enriching to the individuals, the persons
served, and the community itself both now and for
many years to come.

Recreation and welfare leaders have faced many
brand new and difficult situations as the face of
this land has been transformed since Pearl Harbor.
Perhaps the challenge presented by the West Coast
with its teeming war centers and Army towns,
overflowing with men and women from every
hamlet in the country, dramatizes the social picture
of America at war.

RECREATION

JOSEPH LEE D.-lY—- I944 107

Joseph Lee Day—IQI-l-ll-

OSEPH LEE DAY will be celebrated this year on
J July 28th. Many cities observed this day in
1943, and it is hoped this year that even more will
join the ranks of the communities paying honor to
Joseph Lee.

The National Recreation Association will be
glad to send material on the observance of the day
to any group requesting it and will issue informa-
tion on ways in which Joseph Lee Day was cele-
brated in 1943.

We of USO wonder how much impetus we have
added toward community planning; we hope that
when the war is over we will leave more than a
building in the thousands of communities we have
tried to help serve. Essentially, it is now up to
those communities to decide for themselves how
much planning for recreation, health, and the wel-
fare of all they wish to carry on when the guns
have stopped roaring and the bombers have stopped
dropping their deadly cargo.

'Manhasset's "Juke Box"
(Continued from page 92)

fairly well set. However, the average daily at-
tendance is now about 100. The Juke Box is open
every afternoon and Friday and Saturday evenings.
Saturday afternoons is “clean-up time” and many
of the teen-agers sign up for painting, scrubbing,
waxing the bar, and carpentry. On weekday nights
the club is used by special groups of either adults
or teen-agers.

Table tennis, boodle ball, dancing to the juke
box, drinking at the soft drink bar, playing the
piano, looking at magazines, are the day to day
activities. The Juke Box has been a boon to those
youngsters who have not reached the “dating”

 

That feeling of confidence when your soft-
ball hitters step up to the plate with a

 
 
 
   
  

Stage and can come in With a group or meet friends Louisville Slugger is one of those intangible 1;? A_ :4
there. but important things that makes champions. 4 ' ‘ ’ s}
. lt always pays to play with the best! : tint“.

Senior hostesses—all volunteers—are scheduled Home,“ Sohba" Rules {or .944" is ready , 5

by the month and have to be present one session now- Write usiorfree copiestosuppl‘l ‘19”

1 d 1 I h . teams. Please address Dept. R. Hillerlch
a mont1 or sen an a ternate. n t e evenings, an and Bradst Co" Inc" Louisvme 2' Ky_
older couple is in attendance. For certain occa-
sions, such as basketball games, special arrange-
ments are made to keep the club open later than

12 :30.

A junior council group has chosen four heads—
a general chairman, and the chairmen of the rules,
refreshment, and publicity committees. There are
no dues for membership except the promise to

  

SLUGGER

ron SOFTBALL a BASEBALL

  

MAY 1944

108

Are Y 0 U “Si/4g

JUN Illll
ARTS 82 ACTIVITIES?

HE MAGAZINE of PLANS AND IDEAS!

Practical help ‘for the recreation leader,
scout leader, church group worker, teacher.
Each monthly issue contains things to make,
to do, to draw. Each issue has arts and crafts
plans arranged in practical, workable form.

JUNIOR ARTS & ACTIVITIES stresses the
use of arts and crafts to motivate and to cor-
relate. It is no idle statement that while work-
ing with their hands children can be trained
in the fine habits of democratic citizenship.

Because many art and craft materials for-
merly available cannot be obtained, recrea-
tional and craft directors will find the practical

suggeStions contained in JUNIOR ARTS 8:
ACTIVITIES a great help.

Order Now—Be Sure of
Receiving Your Copies

_JUN10R ARTS & ACTIVITIES is pub-
lished monthly except July and August.
Orders are already coming in great numbers
for September and subsequent issues. We can
only print a limited number. Do not delay.
Send your order today.

only

$3.00 for a year's subscription
(l0 issues)
(Postage: Canada 25c additional
foreign 50c additional)

semi order: to

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Dept. R
46|6 North Clark Street

Chicago 40I Illinois

YOUTH GOES TO PARLIAMENT

work one period a month. So far no plan for deal-
ing with those who fail to keep their pledge has
been worked out. We want the young people to
handle the club themselves. Twice the rules com-
mittee had to deal with undesirable behavior and
it did a good job.

The Juke Box—-——its organization and manage-
ment—has shown us here in Manhasset that young
people learn a tremendous amount in the “learning
by doing” process. They develop new leaders, be-
come cooperative members of society, and set a
social pattern that isn’t centered around a bar with
liquor. At the same time many parents become
acquainted with the needs of their children, and
they End out by observation what are accepted
social patterns.

Youth Goes to Parliament

( Continued from page 96)
based on the recent reports on these subjects made

to the Government by the Scott and Uthwatt
Committees.

As with education and health, the members are
fully aware of the vital importance of these ques-
tions to themselves. It is their determination to
know more, and to learn to form and express
opinions so that they may in the end make full use
of their democratic rights and inHuence their Gov-
ernment. This leads them to spend hours of their
leisure in studying such subjects and often to
travel long distances, despite restricted transport
and possible air raids to attend the meetings of
their Parliament.

The young people sometimes invite Government
officials or other authorities to visit their House of
Commons at “Question Time,” and they always
make sure that on these occasions they have studied
the subject in hand sufficiently to make the best use
of the presence of an expert. And it is seldom that
the expert leaves such a gathering without a sense
of inspiration.

Some foolish people talk of the future being in
the hands of the young. They themselves know
very well that it is in the hands of the young and
old and middle-aged together, and they will give
their wholehearted support to those who help them
to qualify as responsible citizens and keep alive
their hope of a better world and their determina-
tion to play a worthy part in it.

Perhaps some of these members of Youth Par-
liaments will take their seats one day in the time-
honored, war-scarred halls of Westminster on the

RECREATION

LIMITED

  

"II M B E II
AVAILABLE
N O W I

The War Produciion Board
has released maierials +0 us
+0 make a limited number of
"Junglegym" Climbing Siruc—
Iures . . . for America's
schoolsI parks and play-
grounds . . . because +I1e
"Junglegym" Climbing S+ruc-
I’ure coniribuies viially +o Ihe
heaIIh and proper physical
developmem‘ of young
America.

 
     

a. m“

No wariime sacrifice in qual- ‘
Hy! All-sieel consI’ruciionI I'IO‘I'
galvanized inside and ou+!
Insialled size: cen+er iowerl

I0’-6” high; ouIside wallI -
8’-6”I1igh;|eng+h'6’.3” THE WORLD-FAMOUS GENUINE

widl’h. 8’-4”. Ca acif. 35
P Y .“I U NG LE GYM’”

children.
CLIMBING STRUCTURE

But you mus’r act quickly!
*Reg. U. 5. Patent Office

JusI’ a few are available . . .
for immediate sale . . . firsI
comel IirsI’ served!

AND AT THE LOW RRE-WAR CEILING PRICE OF $1 5 O F-O-B-

Fa cI'ory

 

WIRE OR AIR MAIL YOUR ORDER TODAY

 

MAY 1944 109

110 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

banks of the Thames, watched over by the Tower
of Big Ben, but whether they do or not, the ap-
prenticeship they have voluntarily served in their
own Parliaments will stand them in good stead.
They will understand the structure of their own
government and be able to use their votes with
honesty and confidence.

  
 

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of l

 
 

Current Interest of the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

' ' ' ' ° Alabama Social Welfare, February 1944
Teen Age Acilvrhes m 5’6” Franc'sco Recreation in a Rural County, by Grace M. Ebert
(Continued from page 94) _

The American City, March 1944

the calendar to start as early as possible. BiEyCE Paths and HOW to Design Them. 'by Roland
. elst
‘ ' ' Denver’s Theatre of Rocks, by C. Ranmer -
. other Actwmes . . Enlisting Public Support for a Park Board, by
Somal dances are by no means the prinC1pal Earle K_ Eby
recreation offered by the San Francisco Recreation - Archnectuml Record, March‘1944  “
De artment for the teen a e rou . There is a The Community School. by Arthur 13- Moehlman
p . . . g g. .  . . The School in the Neighborhood Center, by Richard
schedule of highly d1vers1fied act1v1t1es for this age J. Neutra
group which offers folk and ballet dancing, dra- Two Schools Designed for Community Use
matics and puppetry, the girls’ choir, the Junior Beach and Pool. February 1944

Reconditioning Your Pool, by Wesley Bintz

CiViC SymPhoPy’ playground RHOIgcmggroup's’ pho' Teaching the Adult Non-Swimmer, 'by Robert Royer
tography, Jumor museum act1v1t1es including the The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
building of model planes, etc., handcraft which Migch 1944 F
- .. - - ecreation—Second ront for Democracy
conSISts of weaving and Junior Red Cross work, Swimming Programs After the War, by Grace B.
victory gardening on playground plots, and a Daviess
complete program of athletics with special sea- The Nation’s Schbols, March 1944
sonal tournaments. There are also many special SChOOlhouse P 1‘3an
- - Parents’ Magazine, April 1944
events throflghom the year’ espemaliy, dullng Play Reveals the Boy or Girl, by Amram Scheinfeld
school vacation when playgrounds are d1v1ded into We can cut the Cost, by Mark A. McCloskey
six districts which meet together for picnics, hikes,
roller skating parties, and similar activities. PAMPHLETS
. . .  Bomb Ball, by J. V. Lamberton
CII'CUS Time In Norfolk Springfield College, Springfield, Massachusetts
(Continued from page 75) College Unions, a Handbook on College Community
Centers, by Edith Ouzvts Humphreys
crepe paper. A bandstand constructed for the oc- Association oi College Unions, University of Wis-
casion was placed between the two enclosed rings. “ consuls Madls‘m! W‘sconsm ,,
' ' ' Fourth Annual Report, Department of Recreation of the
seated on the_Stand was a band,0f thlrty mus“: Town of West Hartford, Connecticut. March 1, 1943—
students orgamzed by a local musm teacher. February 29, 1944
Dancers from a local dancing school took part MichiganoRec-reational cam, surge}, _ _
in the acts and a pony ballet was given by children Michlgan State Planning Commissmn, State Building,
. . Lansmg 13, Michigan
of the Benmorreell Navy Housmg PI'OJeCt. Dressed ,
. h. b 11 h d h d f Minnehiker Yearbook. 1943
In W lte a ct coslumesit ey r0 6 Orses ma": 0 Published by rthe Minneapolis Municipal Hiking
wood decorated Wltl’l red pompons and red reins. Club, 325 City Hall, Minneapolis, Minnesota
The program consisted of assembly, side shows, M unicitml Lifeguard T raining Course

Department of Parks, New York

Musical Recreation, by Dr. Lili Heimers
New Jersey State Teachers College, Montclair, New

a parade, and the big show of twelve acts. In the
side shows were hu'la dancers, Siamese twins, a

wild man, a thin man, a fat lady, a snake charmer, Jersey. Price 25 cents
two dwarfs, a fortuneteller, wild women, a two- Play Yards
headed sailor, and a sword swallower. The twelve : Alton Recreatlon Department Alto“! “lino”.
' h ' ' ' : Victory Gardens for Community, Home, School
acts of the b1g s ow included the follow1ng hula New Jersey State Teachers College, Montclair, New
dancers, pony ballet, Arabian tumblers, angel Jersey, Price 25 cents-
chorus, daredevils (tightrope walkers), ballet, ele- Who I, Deliuquem?
phant dance, acrobatic dance, clown act, toe (lane- American Association Of University Women,  I

Street, N. W., Washington 6, D. C. 5 cents per

ing, monkeys—on-skates, and a clown band. copy; $4.00 per hundred

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

,1

Recreation for All Ages

Part I and Part II. Compiled by Lili Heimers and edited
by Margaret G. COok. New Jersey State Teachers
College, Upper Montclair, New Jersey. $1.00.

HIS MIMEOGRAPHED WORK in two volumes represents a

list of teaching aids dealing with all forms of recrea-
tion. Included are charts, exhibits, field trips, films, slides
and film slides, maps, pictures, posters, recordings and
transcriptions, as well as publications.

The material is classified under Administration and
Leadership in Recreational Activities; Camping, Hiking,
and Scouting; Parties, Dramatics and Festivals; and
Hobbies. Recreation workers will be interested in know-
ing that this comprehensive listing of source material on
recreation is available.

Juvenile Delinquency

Special issue of Survey Midmonthly, March 1944. Survey
Associates, 112 East 19th Street, New York 3, $.30.
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY is the subject“ of the March

1944 issue of Survey Midmonthly, and it presents a
challenge to concerted action now and after the war. The
problem is stated by Austin H. MacCormick inf-the first
article, “The Challenge to All of Us,” in which he points
out the responsibility Of the whole community. “How to
Begin” is the title of an article by Bradley Buell, while
Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck, two of the country’s out-
standing criminologists ask “\Vhat Do We Know About
Delinquency ?” Genevieve Garbower takes us on a trip to

' ten communities and gives us a bird’s-eye view Of the

situation. These and other articles make this issue a sig-
nificant one for all the community groups who would
take steps at once to meet the challenge of rrising wartime
delinquency.

Thirteen By Corwin

Radio Dramas by Norman Corwin.
Company, New York. $2.75.
N HESE THIRTEEN RADIO DRAMAS are all perfectly at

home on the air, all plays to be heard not seen,” to
quote Carl Van Doren in his introduction to this collec-
tion. They run the gamut of sentiment, fantasy, broad
comedy, pathos, applied mythology, and lofty vision.

_The Thinking Hand

By Ellsworth Jaeger. The Buffalo Museum of Science,
Buffalo, New York, $1.00.

HERE ARE SOME SIMPLE mimeographed craft suggestions

by the Curator of Education of the Buffalo Museum
Of Science which have been brought together for the
convenience of all who are interested in a program of
fundamental crafts that untrained hands may undertake
with materials easily secured. Most of the projects pre-
sented have been tried and proven in the Museum’s adult
and children’s educational work.

Henry Holt and

MAY 1944 "’ "

The Art of Illusion

By John Mulholland. Charles Scribner’s Sons, New
York. $2.00. ' _
N MAGIC FOR MEN To Do” is the subtitle of this book

which contains a number of fascinating tricks with
playing cards, coins, and pieces of string. There are also
instructions for mind reading or thought transference.
The explanations given are simple and easy to follow.

Games to Make'and Play at Home

By Joseph Leeming. D. Appleton-Century“ Company,
New York. $2.00..

OST OF THE GAMES discussed in this book require

nothing more than cardboard, beans, cards, pieces of
wood or stone. Both indoor and outdoor, old and new
games are described, and there are games for one or two
or a large number of players. Directions for playing the
games as well as making them are given.

Dancing for Fun

By Dorothy N. R. Jackson. University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. $.50.
THIS IS A COLLECTION of partner dances based on popu-

lar music. The dances fall into two groups—the social
mixer type and the ballroom dance type. The collection
will be more valuable for experienced social dance di-
rectors than for volunteers or beginning leaders.

Recreational Plans for Missionary
Volunteers

Review and Herald Publishing Association, Takoma
Park, Washington, D. C. $2.25.

DESIGNED FOR USE by missionary volunteer secretaries

and leaders Of missionary volunteer societies, this
book stresses games rather than dancing of any kind,
and suggests bibliographies of temperance material and
talks to juniors. There are many suggestions under social
gatherings and indoor games, however, which will be of
interest to all recreation workers.

Elementary Science Readers

Prepared by the WPA Pennsylvania Writers’ Project.
Albert Whitman and Company, Chicago.
HERE IS A SERIES OF BOOKS introducing the reader to

various fields of science. In them everyday phe-
nomena are explained with scientific accuracy but in
words simple enough to interest readers in the third and
fourth grades. Some of the titles in the series are: The
Story of Cement; Almm'num; The Story of Paper;
Aircraft; Warships; The Story of Copper; The Story
of Glass; Wind, Water, and Air; Radio; Motion Pic-

tures; and many Others. The price of each booklet is 50
cents.

lll

112 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Pictured Geography in Story and Picture.

Story by Lois Donaldson. Pictures by Kurt Wiese.
Albert \Vhitman and Company, Chicago, Illmms.

At. this time when the Central and South American
countries are assuming so much importance, this series of
attractively illustrated books is very timely.' Each book,
the cost of which is 50 cents, presents in story and

~pictures Costa Rica, Nicaraugua, Salvador, Uruguay,
Colombia, Guiana, and Paraguay. .~

The Outdoorsman’s Cookbook.

By Arthur H. Carhart. The Macmillan Company,
.2New York. $1.95.

People who want to cook for themselves and enjoy the
results will find plenty of help in this book.. Nutritious
menus are given for each day of a trip and provision
lists are planned for every type of trip from the roughest
back—pack trip to the most luxurious. Camping equipment
is thoroughly covered and every detail of preparing food
in the open is described, including the type of stove to
use and the best methods of building fires.

Human Aspects of Multiple Shift Operations.

By Paul and Faith. Pigors. Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. $.75.

This study of the Department of Economics and Social
Science of Massachusetts Institute of Technology is of
unusual interest and value to industrial management and
to those responsible for employee recreation and other
service programs. It is of interest that this technical
study should give the splendid emphasis it does give to
the human factors involved in production of off-shift
workers.

The report points out that the root of the industrial
worker’s difficulty in regard to weekly patterns is that
he is living in two communities that are run on different
time schedules. The study points out also that the
possibility of including recreation after work, and sleep
after both, every day is more important for industrial
workers than for people whose work is more rewarding.
The report covers carefully the adjustment problems faced
by workers in odd shifts because of the difiicult adjust-
ments of their recreational and leisure-time living.

Appendix A of the report lists suggested recreation
activities for industrial workers Ibased on Recreation for
War Workers, published by the National Recreation
Association.

Stunts and Tumbling for Girls.

By Virginia Lee Horne, M.S. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $3.00.

Prepared as a teaching manual to aid the physical edun
cation teachers in enlarging their knowledge of stunts and
tumbling, this book describes several hundred individual,
partner, and group activities arranged in order of diffi-
culty.’ Special safety measures for each activity are
stressed. There are many illustrations.

Physical Fitness.

By J. B. Fitzpatrick, B. A., M. Ed., and E. W. (Joe)
Griffiths. The Copp Clark Company, Limited,
Toronto, Canada. $2.50 plus $.16 postage.

This textbook of physical education for schools and
clubs is designed to meet the needs of the teacher in the
small school, though there is much in it which will be of
value to teachers in larger towns and city schools. The
writers have tried to make their directions so clear and
definite that even an untrained person would be able to
follow them, and free use has been made of diagrams.
Activities are included which for the most part require
little equipment or for which equipment can be made at
small cost. Suggestions and plans for the construction of
equipment are included.

A Basic Book Collection for Elementary Grades_.

American Library Association, Chicago. $2.00.

This collection of titles has been prepared for curricular
purposes and for recreational reading. It includes books
for the child who reads easily, for the child who finds
some difiiculty in reading, for the child who likes to read,
and the child who may develop an interest in reading if
he can find the right books. The titles are grouped under
a number of classifications such as Fairy Tales—Folk-
lore; Legends, Sagas; Suseful Arts; Fine Arts; Travel
and Geography; Fiction; and Picture Books and Easy
Books. Throughout the list grade levels are given for
each title.

Plays for Americans.

By Arch Oboler. Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., New
York. $2.50.

There are thirteen nonroyalty plays in this collection
and all of them concern the United States of America
and the war, though they are not war plays in the strict
sense of the word. They are about people on the home
front who are working hard to help win the war.

Bird Houses You Can Build.

Popular Mechanics Press, 200 East Ontario Street,
Chicago, $.25.

Here are several designs for bird houses which should
meet the requirements of almost any 'lover of birds.
Among them are colony houses, four«apartment log
cabins, and single—apartment homes of rustic design made
from short sections of logs. The pamphlet is profusely
illustrated with pictures and diagrams, and instructions
are given which can be easily followed. '

Morale for a Free World.

American Association of School Administrators, 1201

$SZiIBt62enth Street, NOrthwest, Washington 6, D. C.

'Tlie Twenty-second Yearbook of the American Asso-
elation of School Administrators is devoted to morale,

not only for America but the whole world, and for a
world at war and in peace.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIan, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBE‘T'I‘, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg. Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D.'JAI.IESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, MaSS.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, \Vashington, D. C.

an . RECREATION

