A-Quality of the Spirit

HERE are some people who have the quality of

richness and joy in them and they communicate
it to everything they touch. It is first of all a physi-
cal quality;r then it is a quality of the spirit. . . . It is
probably the richest resource of the spirit; fit is
better than all formal learning, and it cannot be
learned, although it grows in power and richness
with living. It is full of wisdom and repose, since
the memory and contrast of pain and labor are

init...‘

PeOple who have this energy of joy and delight
draw other pe0ple to them as bees are drawn to
ripe plums. Most pe0ple have little powerfor living
in themselves; they are pallid and uncertain in their
thoughts and feelings, and they think they can derive
the strength, the richness and the character they lack
from one of those vital and decisive people—From
The Web and the Rock by Thomas Wolfe. Used by
permission of the publishers, Harper 4& Brothers,

New York 16, N. Y.

The Faculty of Delight

MONG the mind’s powers is one that comes of itself to many
children and artists. It need not be lost, to the end of his
days, by anyone who has ever had it. This is the power of taking
delight in a thing, or rather in anything, everything, not as a
means to some other end but just because it is what it is, as the
lover dotes on whatever may be the traits of the beloved object.
A child in the full health of his mind will put his hand flat on the
summer turf, feel it, and give a little shiver of private glee at the
elastic firmness of the globe. He is not thinking how well it will
do for some game or to feed sheep upon. That would be the way
of the wooer whose mind runs on his mistress’s money. The
child’s is sheer affection, the true ecstatic sense of the thing’s
inherent characteristics. No matter what the things may be, no
matter what they are good or no good for, there they are, each
with a thrilling unique look and feel of its own, like a face; the
iron astringently cool under its paint, the painted wood familiarly
warmer, the clod crumbling enchantineg down in the hands,
with its little dry smell of the sun and of hot nettles; each common
thing a personality marked by delicious differences. . . .

The right education, if we could find it, would work up this
creative faculty of delight into all its branching possibilities of
knowledge, wisdom and nobility. Of all three it is the beginning,
condition, or raw material.—C. E. Montague in Disenchantment,

published by Peter Smith. Reprinted from the New Y or}: Times
Book Review.

,You Want

YOU WANT ADVENTURE; m

Romance,

Something happening.

You want to feel alive.

You want a companion to share with you.

O 0 O 0

Of course you want bread,
A bed, a garment or two.
You want a safe place to go out from.

But you want to go.
Which means a horse, a car, a plane,
Which may mean a canoe, a sailboat, an ocean liner.

0 O 0

You want to have fun.

You want to feel light-hearted and gay.
You want to stay young in spirit.

You want yourself to be a good companion.

“You want to work but —
’ You want to keep from being a slave to your own machines,

your cookstove, your dishes, your furnace,
your home, your car, your many things.

You want to keep routine from capturing you.

You want to be captain of your soul.

You want to live in a world that is friendly to you.

A world that is not hostile to you and to your companions.

You want a measure of security.

You do not want to live in a world that is finished,
That has no possibility of struggle and growth. —
You want to be fully alive in a living world.

 

MARCH I 944 ‘

 

645

 

Courtesy Chicago Park Distr

Al ‘lhe close of fhe Vicfory Garden season in Chicago. neighborhood
fes‘livals were arranged in all par+s of fhe oil-y. wi’rh school children raking
per} in +he fesrival in rheir par‘licular disfricr. The faces of +hese boys

and girls or +he exhibii' held in +he Rurhen‘ord-Sayre Park neighborhood
mirror rheir enormous pride and sarisfac‘lion in +heir achievemem‘s!

646 RECREATION

Gardening-“Modern Three-Faced Janus

ARDENI NG as a
6 phase of the rec-
reation program
constitutes an excellent
beginning of interest in

nature — not a bookish
interest, but rather a

practical working interest. That is
one face of our modern Janus.
Another phase of gardening ex—

Janusl ancient Roman household god of
beginnings. wore two faces. Garden-
ingI in a modern recreation program.‘
does even better. It wears three!

Prepared by the
Chicago Park District
Chicago. Illinois

effort when he swells
the volume of food and
vitamins.

In the Chicago Park
District we have long
promoted the first two

phases of gardening in

our recreation program, but in 1942
our General Superintendent, George

T. Donoghue, was appointed by the

perience provides the beginnings of a

protective attitude toward landscap-

ing around the edges of a play lot. Once shrub-
bery, trees, lawn, or flower beds have taken on
meaning, they are less subject to thoughtless
trampling and destruction. They become some-
thing to protect and treasure.

The third face worn by gardening as a recrea—
tion activity is the stage in which the gardener
teams up with nature in a
partnership of production.
However young he may
be, he is aiding the war

~—

Many_ school children take part in the vacant
lot projects dotting all districts of Chicago.
Here is a group at 80th and‘lngleside AvenueI
with whole families helping in food production.

MARCH 1944

 

Office of Civilian Defense to head
up the Victory Garden program in
the Chicago metropolitan area. He was assisted in
this work by Fred G. Heuchling, our Director of

Public Information.
In the fll‘St year, emphasis was placed on adult

gardens. In 1943, with food shortage a pressing
problem, our emphasis was on children’s gardens

to supplement the adult gardening program. Our
whole Park District organ-

ization became Victory
Garden conscious. A plan
was prepared providing

1 - - I A it :I‘ ’ i 1: ‘
Caurtesy Chicago Park District

647

648 GARDENING-~—IVIODERN THREE-FACED JANUS

PETUNIA

ioinflw

School Children’s Victory Garden Army
Gut o  Uni from your kaolin
MvmmdiWMdehW-K‘MMWNW‘:

HAIIIALL I’IEI-D 3: CO.

This poster is made by mounting brightly colored
seed packages on a l4” x 22” card. It is supplied
to each school for posting in hallways. and is ex-

hibited in the fieldhouses of Jthe Park District.

individual garden plots on park property for as
many as thirty thousand school children. Wherever
suitable soil and sunlight were available in space
not otherwise needed for active recreation, we ex—
plored the possibilities of local community leader-
ship and neighborhood support. In policy, a half
acre for garden purposes in any live to twenty
acre plot of park ground was considered desirable,
and at least one acre in any park of twenty to one
hundred acres. In the Chicago Park District there
are I36 parks within the city limits. The original
plan called for garden projects in 76 of these.
Last spring was unseasonably cold and wet. In
consequence, the plans did not fully materialize.
In developing the plan, we leaned heavily on the
experience of Paul R. Young of the Board of
Education in Cleveland. He has developed there
a program involving courses of instruction in the
school curriculum at public schools where space
and facilities are available. Over the years he has
broadened the plan, stimulating thousands of
school children to develop gardens at home. Our
parks have no required attendance, and naturally
far less supervision than the schools. Our locations
are widely distributed within the city limits, the
northernmost twenty-four miles from the most

 

southern. In the
heart of the city,
home gardening
is almost totally
undeveloped. In
the outskirts are
many home gar—
dens. Some of
these outlying
communities, al-
ready garden-
minded, re“
quested us not to
establish gardens
in their parks.
Local residents
. wished their park
landscaping un-
disturbed, and
felt that chil-
dren’s gardens
could be other-

wise accommo-
dated adjacent to the homes. ‘

-e 'li
‘ t

 

-.

Courtesy Chicago Park District

Standards—But Flexible Ones

Confronting us, therefore, was no rigidly uni-
form procedure. We must start thousands of_
youngsters on their first gardening venture in
widely differing communities. Without expert
guidance they might readily fall into discouraging
mistakes. Seed problems, on the other hand, and
principles of equality in space allotted, urged us
toward standardization. Our child school popula-
tion of several hundred thousand naturally could
not all be accommodated. Neither could adult
leadership be provided on such a scale. There
must be equitable allotment of space among chil-
dren from both public and private schools, and for
all classes in the neighborhood. Ultimately we ar-
rived at the following schedule:

Size of Plot and Planting Plan. Individual plots
were to measure five feet by twelve feet, with a
two-foot path bordering each twelve-foot side, and
a one-foot path at each live-foot end. Thus sub-
divided, an acre accommodates about 475 indi-
vidual garden plots. Considerations of appearance
and of shade suggested a uniform plan. Practical
conservation of seed also pointed to uniform plan-
.ning. Unless each child were to buy full size
packets of each variety he wished to plant, the
sharing of seed became essential. A committee of
experienced local growers was commissioned to

RECREATION

GARDENING-——MODERN THREE—FACED JANUS 649

make recommendations. These finally sifted down
to the following list: leaf lettuce, radish, kohlrabi,
bush beans, Swiss chard, two rows of carrots, two
rows of beets. If young gardeners proved their in—
terest and ability, they might secure three tomato
plants to set out between leaf lettuce and radishes
for late season crops. The committee also agreed
that even Victory Gardening should stress aesthetic
considerations as well as economic and practical.
This led to including a row of zinnias at one end
of each plot, a row of petunias at the otlfer.

Seed. Having agreed upon plan and dimen—
sions, the problem of seed was greatly simplified.
It was necessary to have some dealer provide unit
collections with only the amount needed to plant
each row. This problem was solved by a fortunate
arrangement with Marshall Field & Company.
This famous department store, as a good will of«
fering, paid for packets of seed to be given free to
each child using one of our park garden plots.
The envelope also contained complete instructions,
including a sketch of the garden in perspective.

Recruiting and Publicity
We now were ready to enlist our gardeners.

This was done almost entirely
through the schools. A schedule
was drawn of step by step pro-
gression—enlisting enthusiasm,
assignment of plots, and sessions
of instruction.

The weather, of course, dic-
tates timing in gardening mat«
ters. Unfortunately, 1943 was
the most erratic season in Chi-
cago’s history. Our schedule was
repeatedly assailed by cold and
floods, but our lines never broke.
They merely re-formed.

During March, a three page
mimeographed plan was pre«
pared and distributed not only
to schools, but to community
youth organization groups as
well. Readers were urged to

Many a parent works with his
youngster in Victory Gardens.
This farmer is showing his
son how radishes are grown.

MARCH 1944

 

form gardening groups, applying for plots in
near-by parks. Gardeners were invited to volunteer
in counselling capacities, working with the chil-
dren not during the planting season alone, but
throughout the summer. Newspaper and radio
stations loyally aided.

Results in leader recruitment were somewhat
disappointing. Perhaps those who knew children
did not know too much about gardening, while
those who knew gardening feared they lacked
necessary qualifications in dealing with children.
We offered review courses in the gardening art,
but the offer was late in the season and provided
too little definite organization to prove very effec—
tive. Some leaders could serve only during the
spring, but dared not commit themselves to con-
tinue during the heat of summer when adult guid-

ance and leadership were most critically needed.
A supply of posters was also made available in

March. They were distributed on school bulletin

boards and in park fieldhouses and social agencies.

Color was liberally and attractively used and, to
familiarize readers with the packets they would
later receive, empty seed packets were attached.

 
   

“ #3,. \I

7 ~.  . ; f—‘r’ .
Courtesy Chicago Park District

650 GARDENING—MODERN THREE—FACED JANUS

Weekly bulletins to the schools explained the
plan. Finally, a printed folder described it in
detail and included an application form. These
were distributed so that every boy and girl in 5th,
6th, 7th, and 8th grades might take a copy home
to parents, whose endorsement was required on
applications, with the promise that the family
would carry through all summer and not let a
garden suffer from neglect. Applications also pro-
vided that youth groups might be assigned neigh-
boring plots where they could work together.

We did not ask the school teacher to do any-
thing more than distribute the printed material.
It was felt that the burden should not be thrown
onto the school staff, already overloaded with
various other wartime responsibilities. Definitely,
it should be a community campaign. Many teach-
ers volunteered, however, and their success was
Outstanding.

The printed folder instructed children to secure
parents’ cooperation in writing, on applications,
then take the applications to the supervisor at their
nearest park. Those already af-
filiated with youth groups in
group gardening were to report
to their group leaders, who in
turn would get in touch with
near-by parks. We were again
disappointed in the number of
youth leaders responding. Pos—
sibly the impression was that identity of groups
would be lost. Actually, we had expected to
feature special groups. In some cases this did re-
sult, and secured considerable public attention.

Physical Preparations

Meantime, the park staff located and designated
garden plots, laid them out, and prepared them.
Landscape experts made a study of soil and grow-
ing conditions in every park in the system, con—
ferring with recreation leaders. No gardens were
located so close to other plantations or buildings as
to prevent proper development. Blueprint maps
were prepared. Engineers laid out and staked indi-
vidual plots. Machinery for registering children and
assigning specific locations was developed. Cards
were printed to be used as markers, identifying
each garden, and bearing the name and address of
the youthful gardener, the name of the park, row
and plot number, name of the group leader and of
the group itself, if other than a school. Lumber
scarcity made it impossible to provide uniform
stakes, and restrictions prevented our securing

"No garden is perfect. but there
is not a garden in the world that
has not been fun for the person
who planned it. dug deep. and then
watched it come into being.”——E.

L. Howard in Children’s Gardens.

waterproof card stock. We met these difficulties,
however, as best we could. Thus, when the moment
of assignment arrived, ch'ldren needed only to be
assembled, and each coul be handed his own card
of credentials.

The problem of tools was also difficult because
it appeared certain that there would be a scarcity.
Actually, our worries on this score proved unneces—
sary. One child was able to bring from home a
rake, another a hand cultivator, and hoes and hand
tools proved to be rather general neighborhood
equipment. Spades and shovels, of course, were
available in almost any neighborhood. The Park
District power equipment plowed some of the
areas, used a‘rotary tiller in others, and in a few
cases the boys and girls did their own spading. In
our plans we expected the children to gather for
assignment of plots and to receive their packets of
seed on the first Saturday of our schedule. This
first meeting, we thought, would be “plot assign-
ment day.” The soil could then be prepared for
planting and the seed bed completed. In the plan ’-
we reserved the following Sat-
urday for “vegetable seed plant-
ing day,” and the third Saturday
for planting later or more tender
crops. We reckoned without our
weather, however, and our sched-
ule went awry. Repeated post-
ponements because of rain and
cold discouraged some children who came in spite
of weather conditions and had to be sent home
again because gardens were either a sea of mud
or frosted.

The Results

In spite of delays and disappointments, how-
ever, more than 14,000 grammar school boys and
girls planted gardens on park property. The great
majority got successful crops. Everyone was able
to take home at least some fresh vegetables grown
under his own care. Some of the garden plots were
extraordinarily successful. Jackson Park, for ex-
ample, had two projects, each including over 400
individual garden plots. There a school teacher of
the community served as volunteer leader, with
various other community enthusiasts. They kept
their corps of youthful gardeners enthusiastically
energized throughout the summer. Picnics from
time to time revitalized laggards and persuaded
them to catch up on weeding or cultivating. In
the other project in the same park, stimulated
somewhat by the competing spirit, a leader from

RECREATION

GARDENING—MODERN THREE-FACED JANUS 651

the American
Youth Reserves
of the Civilian
Defense was a
moving spirit.
There, also, a
number of school
teachers helped
make the project
successful.

At W i c k e r
Park, in a con-
gested district,
the park recrea-
tion staff set
aside a small plot.
There was
greater demand
than the accom-
modation could
satisfy, and the
knowledge that
others stood
ready to take
over in case' of
neglect spurred
the gardeners to
give devoted at-
tention to their
plots. In Spite of
smoke and other
unfavorable fact-
ors, results were
excellent. There
was no pilferage,
although the gar-
den plots were
within a few feet of a heavily traveled sidewalk on
a_ busy business street.

In River Park, one of the Park District’s horti-
culturists volunteered spare time to work with the
children. A most skillful gardener, he is a special-
ist in growing vegetables. Under his tutelage gar-
dens were so accurately and neatly planted that
they might have served as an example of expert
gardening.

In one park no outdoor space was available.
Our. recreation instructor collected boxes and
crates, planting a garden on the roof of the recre-
ation jbuilding. Good results were obtained in
growing radishes, lettuce, tomatoes, and even some
other vegetables.

Several methods were employed to sustain in-

MARCH 1944

 

(I) Printed folder describing the Victory Gardens.
with application for a plot on the back page. One

was given each child in the 5thI 6th' 7th, and 8th
grades in public, private and parochial'schools.

(2) Marking card about 6 inches square used for
assigning lots. The card. tacked on a staple, gave
name of gardener and other information about him.

(3) Report form. letterhead sizeI which was filled
out periodically by each adult leader.

terest. Sears-Roebuck contributed buttons declar-
ing the wearer member of the School Children’s
Victory Garden Army. Simple report forms were
issued to adult leaders, on which name and address
of each youthful gardener was recorded, and on a
check list in a provided Space was indicated the

( C antimted on page 698)

 

u(give Us Something to Do”

school students in South

East Minneapolis wanted
something to do in the evening, they found they
were forgotten members of the community. The
only places to attract them were the same spots
open to the grown-ups: movies, night clubs, bars,
and pool halls, mainly unsavory in atmOSphere.

Two YEARS AGO when high

Today over a hundred members of the South
East Minneapolis Youth Center have a place to
dance, sing, talk, laugh, and have a “coke” to-
gether. Bright, eager—eyed groups gather after
football games, hoarse from shouting, and expend
their energy in the “Lindy Hop” or games of pool
and table tennis. The manager of the corner drug
store no longer has to chase thirty boys and girls
away from his juke box and out of his booths—
boys and girls who bought a nickel coke at his
store to earn the right of “some place to go.” Now
they can stay at the youth center from 7 :30 until
10:30 on any week night and until 12 :00 on Fri—
day and Saturday nights. The membership includes
boys and girls from sixteen to twenty-one years of
age. The adult in charge is either a student major-
ing in recreation at the University of Minnesota or
Polly Trost, twenty-two-year-old Director of the
East Minneapolis Recreation Association (EMRA).

“The youth center has been the answer to a
problem that exists in any community which has
not adequate planned recreation for its youth,” in
the opinion of W. Glen Wallace, President of
EMRA. In this case it was an answer that was
determined by youth themselves, with adult guid-

652

By MARION J. EDWARDS
Minneapolis. Minnesota

ance. Rod Newburg, one of the
adults who strongly promoted
the movement, was in close
enough touch with the boys of the community to
talk to them frankly in the fall of 1941.

“A certain clique seemed to be getting into mis-
chief,” Mr. Newburg said. “They were really good
kids, so a couple of us called the leaders of the
clique in. We bawled them out. They challenged
us with ‘Give us something to do.’ They said they
had no decent place to go, and they got tired of
going to the movies.”

The challenge could not be met immediately.
What did the boys want? “A place where we can
meet together,” was the vague opinion of the lead-
ers. They were told, “Show us more interested
people.” Temporarily the group met in Mr. New—
burg’s little business shop. Weekly meetings were
soon attended by twenty-five boys and girls. They
clamored for a larger place, and the adults answered
with a demand for still more interested people. A
membership campaign drew 125.

They Did the Work Themselves

Now the group met in a vacant room beside a
local florist shop. They sat on chairs borrowed
from funeral parlors. They elected ofiicers and
drew upa constitution. Chuck Scanlon, first presi-
dent, is now remembered by the only gold star on
the center’s service flag. Chuck appointed a com-
mittee to find a meeting place for the center, which

now had the financial backing of the EMRA. The
committee found an old cabinet maker’s rooms up

RECREATION

I

“GIVE US SOMETHING TO DO”

above a bank. Shavings, debris, and general dis-
order were no obstacle. The EMRA furnished
the materials and the youth center members the
elbow grease. When they finished they had“ a
dance Hoor 32. feet square, a lounge 16’ x 32", a
pool room 16’ x 48’, and an office. In two months
of afterschool hours these members had set walls
up for room partitions, put plasterboard on all
walls, and sanded the floors. Only the electric
Wiring and wallpapering requiredprofessional help.
Just recently the members put pine panelling
around their lounge, and this winter they are
building booths for the lounge’.

Inspiration has occasionally been needed from
outside sources to keep spirits up and to prevent
all work from piling on a small number. During
the rebuilding of the rooms the workers dropped
off after the first enthusiasm until only the same

five or six were coming to "help regularly. Mr. .

Newburg, watchful for the success of the enterprise,
called a meeting and said, “Let’s forget the whole
thing.” The word spread like wildfire among the
backsliders. No one was willing to let the precious
goal slip out of sight; and the next night forty-six
workers showed up.

A Constitution for the Center

With the physical structure completed, the
group turned its attention to other aims. They
polished the first draft of their constitution. Their
main objectives now
stand as follows:

I. To secure and main-
tain a common meet-
ing place for the youth

of South East Min-
neapolis

2. To uphold and pre—
' serve democracy
through the govern—
ment of this organiza—
tion by its members

3. To raise standards of
character and morality
of its members through
wholesome recreation

4. To serve our country
and our community in
times of war and
peace

5. To acquire and hold
real and personal prop-

MARCH 1944

653

perty to be used for the purpose of this organ—

ization
6. To cooperate with existing agencies, organiza-

tions, and individuals for the purpose of realiz-
ing the objectives of this organization.

Membership regulations were drawn up. These
said that anyone could be a member who met the
following qualifications:

1. Is between the ages of 16-21 inclusive; lives
in South East Minneapolis or spends a major
portion of time there.

2. Is approved by Board of Directors.

3. Pays fee of $.50, which does not include first
month’s dues.

4. Pays dues of $.25.

Any member, however, may be dropped for “of-
fences detrimental to the welfare of the organiza-
tion” on a three-quarters vote by the Board.

The Board is made up of four officers and ten
members, the officers being elected every six
months and the members for one year, with half
the members retiring every six months. Meetings
are held weekly.

The Program

A social program to meet the wishes and needs
of the majority has been set up. The center is
open every night except Sunday. At present the
schedule is: Tuesday nights, choir and glee club
practice; Thursday nights, social dancing with les—

 

654 “GIVE US SOMETHING TO DO”

sons for those who want them; Friday nights, a
party; Saturday nights, special entertainment.
Christmas, Valentine’s, and other seasonal occa-
sions merit decorated dances on Saturday nights.
In football season the center is open for dancing
after the game. Sometimes one of the popular
local orchestras rehearses at the center, and the
dancers then have free accompaniment that ordi-
narily costs $150 per night. The regular facilities
for entertainment include a piano, juke box, three
pool tables, a table tennis table, equipment for
quiet games, and magazines donated by the
members.

New activities are tried out on the basis of in—
terests expressed at Board meetings. At present
study groups for those who want help with their
school work are planned. A minstrel show is on
the program for spring.

What They Think of the Center

Insofar as possible, the center cooperates with
the activities of the community high school, “Mar-
shall.” The attitude of the school toward the center
is evidenced by the interest of its teachers. Captain
Harry Cooper, principal of Marshall High before
joining the Army, was vice-president of EMRA
and one of the most ardent supporters of the cen-
ter at the time he went into military service. Mrs.
Marjorie Champine, visiting teacher, says records
show fewer people at the senior high school level
are being brought into juvenile'court than before
the organization of the center. Kathryn Irvine, a
staff member and also member of the.EMRA
board, noticed no Marshall High School students
taking part in objectionable parading and riotous
actions downtown after one of the fall football
games. She credited this to the fact that Marshall
students had some place to go after the game.

Juvenile delinquency figures for the Marshall
High district show the following changes in num-
bers of boys brought to court since 1940. 1940——
37; I94I-—47 ; 1942—32. Figures are not yet
available for 1943, but in 1942, a year after the
center opened, the decrease was almost 32 per cent,
as compared with an over-all cit'y decrease of less
than 5 per cent for the same period of time.

The opinion of parents toward the center is not
yet definitely determined. Ed Dougherty, present
president, says, “One of our main problems is to
get the parents interested.” To aid in solving this
problem, the youth center has had Bill Genty, a
member, and also president of the senior class at
Marshall, talk about the program and aims of the

center at a P.T..A. meeting. The center also plans
to have an open house for parents.

Many of the parents are pleased with the atten-
tion given to their sons in the service who were
former members. Betty Ouelette, secretary, as-
sisted by other members, sends out photomicro-
graphed copies of the daily paper which are free
of charge. There is a name on the mailing list for
each of the fifty-nine stars on the service flag made
by the girls.

Copies of the Sooper Dooper, the center mimeo-
graphed monthly paper, also go to the men in the
service. And in return these boys write back.
What the center has meant to them is made clear
in a letter from charter member George Ryan
(A/C, U.S.N.R.) :

“. . . After all is over, I’m awfully afraid that

there shall be quite a few . . . of the gang who

will have given their lives so that groups such

as the youth center, which symbolizes American

democracy, can go on being happy in their own

way, rather than being made into a piece of

machinery such as our sneaky pals across the
, Pacific and Atlantic would have it.”

The Scope? Dooper expects soon to start a new
feature. Each month Mr. Newburg plans to take
a photograph of something that is going on at the
center and paste a copy of this photo in each copy
of the paper.

Youth center members share responsibility. The
secretary mops the floor as well as taking minutes
’of board meetings. All members must assist in
general cleaning and upkeep and in decorating for
dances.

Everything at the center is done because the
majority of members wants it that way. There
was no pattern for building this organization, and
no book of rules to follow in carrying it out. Mr.
Newburg applies the phrase “trial and error” to
the development of the center. It has no direct
connection with any national group or with any
local group except the EMRA. It is an individual
enterprise in the field of recreation that is working
out to the benefit of the entire community. ‘

“Programs to combat juvenile delinquency must
arise from within the neighborhood and not be im-
posed from the outside. And they cannot be suc-
cessfully administered from the top. They must
be programs which grow out of the ingenuity of
the people of the local community, programs to
which the people themselves contribute their
talents, their energies.”—Dr. C lifj'ord R. Show.

RECREATION

SINCE THERE are 1‘10 York's Pennsylvania Dutch Canteen

exemplities the well-known "York
Plan.ll which sums up to: "Do 'the
best you can with what you have."

army camps in the

immediate vicinity of
York, recreation facilities
for servicemen are needed
only over week ends. To
meet this need, the Rec-
reation Commission, the organi-
zations connected with USO and
the Red Cross banded together to
form the York County Citizens
Committee of United Service Or-
ganizations, with a local judge as chairman and
the superintendent of recreation as secretary.

It was agreed that the canteen' ought to be
located near the railroad station, and that it should
have recreation facilities adequate to meet the de-
mands of the number of servicemen expected to

use it. Here again the “York Plan” enters the

picture. Sharing of materi-
als and equipment is an
important aspect of the
plan, and so it was natural

By GERALD SAMUELS

Recreation Department
York. Pennsylvania

Gay Pennsylvania Dutch designs on the walls.
attractive woodwork and furnishings' and
food that lives up to local traditions—all

a

The Pennsylvania Dutch Canteen '"

to select as the site of the
canteen the old York
County Academy build-
ing, which is operated
during the week as a cen-
ter by the York Recrea-
tion Commission.

The Recreation Commission
and the trustees of the Academy
gave their. consent to the pro-
posal, and the project was on its
way. In selecting a motif for the
canteen, the sponsors recognized that York is right 3
in the heart of the picturesque Pennsylvania Dutch
country, and decided that this should be a Penn-
sylvania Dutch canteen.

Although the Academy building is replete with
historical significance — since the York County

Academy was the oldest school west of the Susque-
hanna —— when you walk

into the building today
you’d never know that it
was a school of Revolu-

combine to make York's Canteen unbeatable!

m: .u , 2 .

 

MARCH 1944

655

656 THE PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH CANTEEN

 

There's fun to be had out of doors, fool in
the long yard laid out with game courts of
various kinds. and with brightly colored um-
brellasI chairs and tables adding atmosphere

tionary days. Volunteer
workers have done a styl—
ish job of painting, decor-
ating and furnishing. Penn-
sylvania Dutch decorations adorn the walls, and
bright colors throughout have livened up the old
building and made it bright and cheerful.

The canteen is staffed entirely by volunteer
workers, with all organizations in the community
cooperating and taking turns (usually for a month
at a time) in serving at the center. Committees
have been organized to plan entertainment (the
chairman is a former professional entertainer), ar-
range for hostesses (senior and junior), take care
of the house, and provide publicity.

As director of the canteen, the committee selected
the superintendent of recreation, whose function it
is to supervise activities and coordinate the work
of all committees.

Originally the canteen was in operation from
Saturday noon until Sunday evening, but the pro j—
ect proved so popular with servicemen that its
hours have been extended to include the entire
week end. Big street signs in the central part of
the city direct the servicemen to the center.

Facilities
Some idea of the scope of the center’s facilities
may be obtained from a brief account of the facilities

that have been provided in
what was once the York
County Academy building.

A lounge room has been
furnished with Pennsylvania Dutch antiques and
comfortable easy chairs covered with gay calico
materials; writing and reading facilities are avail-
able, together with a combination radio and vic-
trola. There is a quiet game room with card tables,
card games, table games, puzzles, quiet games of
all kinds, scrap books and magazines. For those
who want action, there is an active game room
equipped with four ping-pong tables, dart games,
and a pool table.

Those with mechanical inclinations or the desire to
work with their hands will find in the crafts room
a veritable paradise, well provided with tools and
materials for carrying on work in a wide variety
of crafts. Here, too, there are facilities for sewing
and pressing.

The canteen proper was formerly the gymnasium
at the rear of the main building. Gay Pennsylvania
Dutch designs on the walls, cherry colored wood-
work, large antique benches covered with quilted
calico, a red gingham—ruffled canteen table, and the
dim light cast by genuine antique lanterns and
numerous candles—all these create atmOSphere
and local color. And one must not forget the

(Continued on page 695)

RECREATION

A Time to Laugh!

COME APRIL FIRST and prac-

tical jokes will reign

supreme for the day—
your alarm clock will start you
oFf to work an hour earlier,
someone will put salt in the-
sugar bowl, and the neighbor-
hood children will ring your
doorbell and run away before
you can answer.

It will be just the time for a gay, lively April
Fool’s party, and this year there will be many ser—
vicemen and women as well as neighbors and
friends attending the festivities—so why not add a
military touch to your party? This will lend at—
mosphere to your topsy-turvy, fun—for—all frolic.

Make the invitations out of brown paper, meas—
uring 8%” x 5%”. Fold the paper double and cut
the top edges off to look like a tent. Then draw
the tent Opening and cut along the flap edges so
that they can be lifted to show the writing on the
inside fold.\ Across the broad part of the tent
write the name and address of the host and hostess
and a little poem:

“Come to the Party we’re giving for you . . .
. . . and all your friends in khaki or blue.

The date: April lst—the time: around eight,
It’s a special occasion—so don’t be late!"

 

l\\\\

.l ' ‘
Print by Gedge Harmon

MARCH 1944

The custom of playing tricks on the
first day of April is so ancient that
its origin has been lost. From time
immemorial India has had its spring
festival of Huli. ending March 3|st,
in which jokes and pranks play an im-
portant part. In France. where such
practices have been customary since
as far back as the sixteenth century,
the victim is called an April "fish."

Then below this, on the out-
side of the tent flap in red,
white, and blue crayon, you
can write, “This is the Army,”
with this little ditty following:

“Breakfast in bed,
Sleep till noon

No more K. P.

And a furlough soon.”

Before your military guests
get their hopes up, they will open the tent flap and
see, written in big bold letters on the inside fold,
“April Fool!”

The decorations should have a combination mili-
tary and April Fool’s theme—therefore some red,
white, and blue crepe paper strips draped in twisted
ribbons across the ceiling will not be amiss. From
old magazines, cut out pictures of familiar prewar
products, and on the curtains, window shades, or
backs of chairs, pin these illustrations of shoes,
sugar, canned foods, meats—all of them displayed
with a “not rationed” sign attached.

Servicemen and women will enjoy taking a hand
in the actual “dressing up” of the rooms, and this
game, centered around the main decorations, will
offer the perfect opportunity. A large outline of a
clown is drawn on white paper and tacked to the
wall. The game is played in the same Way as
“pinning the donkey’s tail.” Each player is given
a dinerent piece of the clown’s face and clothing.
He is then blindfolded, turned around thtee times,
and sent on his way to pin the right pieces to the
right places on the clown—although the result may
not evidence a high degree of accuracy! The fin-
ished clown will be the source of much merriment

and will provide the appropriate crazy center of
attraction.

- Games and Stunts

It Can't Happen Here. Both your neighbors and
servicemen guests will have many an amusing
anecdote to contribute to this get—acquainted game.

As soon as everyone has arrived, have each per—

There's April Fool's Day, of course.
But there are April Showers, too!

657

658 A TIME TO LAUGH!

son, in turn, announce his or her name and then
proceed to recount an imaginary incident which
ordinarily never would have happened in the Army,
Navy or Marines. Some of the brief stories which
might be told have to do with the sailor who read
a book at the Stage Door Canteen in preference to
dancing with Lana Turner; the soldier who vol-
unteered for K.P.; the top sergeant who gave the
rookie private another hour to sleep in the mom-
ing; or the soldier who refused a ten day furlough.

When everyone has had a hearty chuckle over
the “tall stories,” they can decide which one is the
least likely to be believed. To the spinner of the
winning yarn present the medal of honor—a card-
board disc with “April Fool Storytelling Cham-

pion” written on it.

Peanut Pushers. Divide the guests into two teams,
the Red Army and the Blue Army. On the floor
mark off two goal lines eight feet apart. One mem-
ber of each team is given a peanut shell and told
to push it with his or her nose from one goal line
to the other. No fair using hands or blowing!
When a peanut reaches the goal line, the next
member of the team pushes it back again (with
nose) to the starting line where a third member
takes over, and so on. The army finishing first
wins.

A Foolish Song Story. Arrange everyone into
several groups of not more than three people.
Someone in the first group begins the “story” by
singing or reciting the first line of a song. The
second group must continue the story by giving
the first line of another song, and thus around the
room. Anyone may supply the next line when it’s
his or her group’s turn—but if every member of a
group fails to carry the story along, each one must
recite a nonsense rhyme or song.

Military Drill. With so many servicemen and
women at your party, a combination “military
drill” and “consequences” game will add interest
to the evening’s program.

The guests form in line and are instructed in a
few of the military commands, such as “right face,”
“left face,” “about face,” “mark time,” “halt,” and
“right-hand salute.” The leader or captain then
says, “Uncle Sam says ‘right face’,” whereupon
the company must all obey the command. In the
same way he may give an order for any of the
other movements, always prefacing his command
with the words “Uncle Sam says.” If at any

time the captain omits the words, “Uncle Sam

says,” the members of the company must refuse
to obey the order.

Any player obeying must take the “conse-
quences” and draw one of the little slips of paper
which have been prepared beforehand and placed
in two box'es—-one for the women and one for the
men. On these slips are written brief stunts to be
performed. The women may be told to imitate a
man shaving himself, to whistle Yankee Doodle or
sharpen a pencil. For the men the instructions may
be to iron clothes, wash dishes, or sew on buttons.

Fool's Gallery. One person who draws reason-
ably well is selected to be “the artist.” He sits in
the center of the room, and the various teams are
seated informally either behind a line or outside a
circle about fifteen feet away from the artist. The
teams are separated from each other as a matter
of convenience; otherwise the seating arrangement
of the players is not important as long as they are
close enough to get the information they need, and
as near as possible to the line or circle.

To start the game the artist draws a picture of
an animal. When it is completed he gives a signal
and one player from each team runs up, looks at
the picture, returns to his chair, and starts draw-
ing the picture. The other players in his group try
to guess what the animal is. As soon as one thinks
he knows, he runs to the artist and whispers the
name. He may guess only one name at a time. If
he is right, he scores a point for his team. If he is
wrong, he or one of the other players from his
team may try again. The player drawing the
picture for his group may not give his teammates
any help in guessing what the picture is.

Play the game until each person has had a
chance to reproduce the picture of the animal‘
drawn by the artist. At the close of the game lay
the drawings on the floor and award a foolish
prize for the best drawing in the Fool’s Gallery. G

April Guggenheim. Divide the group into teams
of from six to ten. Each person is given a sheet of
paper containing a diagram which has the letter
A P R I L printed across the top and such cate-
gories as cities in the news, war heroes, military
terms, and Victory Garden vegetables down the
left side. In the space opposite the categories, and
below each letter, words are written which start
with the letter and are found in the categories.

At a given signal the groups start writing and
after a definite period—*five or ten minutes-uthe
groups are stopped. One member reads his list of
words noting whether none, one, two, or three or

RECREATION

 

A TIME TO LAUGH! 659

more persons have the same word he has. Each
member of the group reads the words on his list
not read by the others and marks down his score.
The method of scoring is as follows: no one has
the same word, four points; one person has the
same word, three points; two persons have the
same word, two points; and when three or more
have the same word no credit is given. The person
having the highest score wins.

Siege. Guests gather in couples anywhere in the
room. A line of four, made up of two couples with
inside arms linked, is “It” and tries to ericircle
other couples. Any couple encircled links arms
with “It” and helps catch other couples.“ As soon
as there are eight people in the “It” line, the four
on the right end detach themselves and start out
on their own. This continues until all the guests
have been encircled. No 'couple may leave the
room, but other than that they may do anything
they please to avoid being captured.

' Backward Alphabet. All sit in a circle and the
whole circle tries to say the alpha-
bet backward -—each person men-
tioning a letter in turn. It is harder
than it sounds. Then 'try spelling
words backwards. The leader sud-
denly points at someone, mention-
ing a military word—army, navy,
planes, tanks—to be spelled backward, and follows
the word by counting ten. The person pounced
upon must spell the word backwards before the
counter reaches ten or else take the leader’s place.

Tipperary. Here’s a musical game that will carry
out both the military and April Fool theme by
starting everyone off in a dignihed manner but
soon having them all twisted up!

Guests form a single circle with hands clasped
around the circle. Partners stand beside each other.
° A designated leading couple makes an arch by
holding clasped hands high. A designated end
couple, across the circle, starts marching toward
the arch, drawing- everyone after them. They go
under and through it, and by the time the whole
group has been drawn through that one arch all
the couples are standing with their backs to the
center, with hands still clasped around the circle.

At a signal they start for the arch again, moving
backward this time, and to complicate things

further, the leader can accelerate the tempo of the
music.

Foolish Facts. On one side of the room place a
cardboard sign saying RIGHT. On the opposite side

MARCH 1944

"April. April.

Laugh thy girlish laughter;-
And the moment afterl
Weep thy girlish tears!"

—William Watson.

of the room a sign reads: WRONG. Announce that
you are going to read off a list of facts, most of
which are wrong. But there are enough right ones
in the list to be confusing. If the players think a
fact is right, they run to the side of the room
marked “Right.” If they think it’s wrong, they
run to the opposite side of the room.

After each fact has been presented and the play-
ers have chosen their sides, the hostess reads off
the answer, right or wrong. And the laugh is on
those on the wrong side each time!

Here is a list of facts concerning current events
and military matters that might be used:

I. Hawaii has been America’s principal source
of sugar. (Wrong. Cuba has been the principal
source.)

2. Franklin D. Roosevelt, is the twenty-lith
president of the United States. (Wrong. He is
the thirty-second.)

3. The students at Annapolis are called “Mid-
shipmen” because they are halfway between a land-
lubber and a sailor. (Wrong. In
the past, seamen training to be of-
hcers were stationed amidships.)

4 Oklahoma is the nation’s lead-
ing producer of crude petroleum.
(Wrong. Texas is.)

5. The military term sergeant is
derived from an old meaning of the word—ser-
vant. (Right—servant, hence one who carries out
the orders of higher ranking officers.)

6. In military and naval slang, the word “tin
fish” means submarines. (Wrong. Tin fish are
torpedoes, and submarines are pig-boats.)

7. The Luftwaffe is the British air force.
(Wrong. The term, literally meaning air weapon,
refers to the German air force.)

8. General George C. Marshall was the only full
general active in the United States Army when it

entered World War II. (Right.)

9. The Rose Bowl is in Dallas, Texas: (Wrong.
It is in Pasadena, California.)

10. Claude Wickard is Secretary of Commerce.
(Wrong. Jesse Jones occupies this position.)

“Chow’s On”

After all the gay activity, your guests will have
worked up a soldier-sized appetite. Have someone

ring the old dinner bell and announce to the group,
“Chow’s on.”

(Continued on page 695)

Building Schools for Community Use

HERE HAS been gen-
eral agreement

among leaders in
education and recrea-
tion fields that school
buildings should be so
constructed that they
meet their primary responsibility in the field of
public education and at the same time provide
effectively for community recreation purposes, thus
eliminating the need for costly duplication of facili-
ties. Dual use of school facilities is being pro-
vided more and more as new school buildings are
constructed, but practice still lags far behind

accepted theory.

Gymnasiums, swimming pools, showers, locker
rooms, comfort facilities, auditoriums, arts and
crafts rooms, music rooms, and class rooms with
movable seats for club and other small group ac-
tivities, if grouped together, can be used after
school hours without providing access to the rest
of the school building and without adding to heat-
ing expense. Lockers, showers, and comfort facili-
ties should be arranged so that they are easily
accessible to outdoor areas without requiring access
to other parts of the building.

A few cities have constructed these facilities in
a separate connecting building.

include

Some specific features in school building plans
that would facilitate their use for recreation activi-
ties follow:

Play rooms should open on to the children’s
playground. They should be large enough for
rainy day activities, should be heated, con-
tain supply cupboards, and should be accessi-
ble to drinking fountain and toilet facilities.
Floor surface should be suitable for painted
diagrams for playground games. A stage for
playground dramatics and marionettes is
desirable.

Toilet facilities and drinking fountains should be
near gymnasium, showers and playgrounds.

Windows and lights should be guarded against
balls.

A heating system constructed so that the entire
building would not have to be heated when
only one section is used.

Entrance to play areas should be on the well-

660

Suggestions as to how schools should
be built in the future if they are to
recreation facilities
accessible for wider use by the public

lighted street side——not
between buildings or on
alleys.

Facilities should be
provided for a seated
audience in gymnasi-
ums.

easily

An outdoor play area should be enclosed by a
wire fence, have a proper surface, and ade-
quate safe equipment.

The provision of these features would eliminate:

Destruction of pr0perty in sections of building
not being Used.

Expense of extra janitors and extra monitors.

Extra recreation leaders. (Fewer teachers could
handle the situation.)

Friction regarding the use of certain rooms by
the recreation department when schools are
having special activities.

The feeling that recreation workers are some-
times using property built primarily for school
program only.

One present weakness in the plan of school
buildings for community use is the failure to recog-
nize that there may be several rooms needed ex-
clusively for community use, such as a general
lounge and a drop-in place for out of school youth
during the evening hours. There is no reason why
the school building should not provide for such
rooms just as it provides for teachers’ rooms.

A serious handicap to the deveIOpment of the
full use of even well-adapted school buildings is
the attitude of many school boards, principals,
teaching personnel, and janitors. Some school
boards, for example, set charges for the use of
auditoriums, gymnasiums, and other facilities so
high that community groups cannot afford to use
them.

School principals too frequently object to the
community use of their building because they are
more concerned with the building itself than with
its contribution to the total social and civic life of
the neighborhood. The reluctance of janitors to
COOperate in the community use of buildings is
traditional. Directors of community centers are
familiar with the many irritations which arise be-
cause teachers complain that there has been some
little disturbance to their rooms during the previ-

(Continued on page 693)

g
RECREATION

l-loly/ Week in Lindsborg. Kansas

UT IN THE Smoky Hill

River valley on the

plains of Central Kan-
sas sits the little farming
community of Lindsborg,
population 1,913. It has a few
two-story buildings down-
town, a bank and a hambur-
ger stand. From anywhere on
the main street you can see
plowed ground. Yet several
thousand people make an an-
nual pilgrimage to Lindsborg
to hear 500 local choristers,
all of Swedish descent, sing
Handel’s oratorio, “The Messiah,” on Palm Sun—
day and Easter afternoons. Before gasoline ra-
tioning, cars came from half the states of the Union.
Last year enough people still managed to get
there to fill all the seats and even the aisles of
Presser Hall. Critics call this outburst of song on
the rim of the old Dust Bowl the finest of its kind
in the world. It has continued .annually, without
interruption, since it started in 1882 with a chorus
of fifty.

An Easter visitor to the auditorium of this
Oberammergau of the plains sees a vast white shell
filled with the chorus. At the front of the shell is
the Bethany Symphony Orchestra. The platform
for the chorus rises in semicircular stair—steps. On
the left and right are sopranos and contraltos in
white dresses; in the center are tenors and basses
in dark suits with black bow ties. The conductor
for thirty years has been Dr. Hagbard Brase, a
tall, erect man with a white Vandyke, wearing a
cutaway coat.

With one motion the 500 Swedish—Americans
stand up and begin to sing the old, old story, as
taken from Isaiah, the Psalms, and the Gospels of
the New Testament. Four guest soloists help un—
fold the majestic story which rises to its height in
the triumphant Hallelujah chorus.

The visitors leave the hall, many of them to visit
acquaintances, to drink cup after cup of clear
brown coffee, or perhaps feast at a smorgasboard.
If it’s a smorgasboard, the dining room table is
resplendent with the triumphs of a Swedish house-
wife’s kitchen. The guests help themselves to

old story

-\

MARCH 1944

By HOWARD W. TURTLE
Staff Sergeant. U. S. Army
Formerly of the Kansas City Star

_ This is the story of Lindsborg. Kansas.

and its annual performance. at Easter.
It is said that the
fame of this little community and the
event it sponsors is even greater in
Sweden than in the United States. An
tells of a man and his wife
who landed in New York from Sweden.
Amazed at the size of the skyscrapers.

the man exclaimed. "Ja. and it this is
New York. what must Lindsborg be!"

of ''The Messiah."

Kranskaka, sockerkakor,
polka griser, smorbakelser and
coffee, then go out to the liv—
ing room to eat interminably.
The atmosphere of this Holy
Week event is genial without
hilarity, showing a restraint
that is absent at other feasts.

The people of the “Mes—
siah” chorus sing without
pay, and indeed for some the
singing is expensive, as they
travel up to twenty miles
each way, rehearsing twice a
week, from shortly after New
Year’s until Easter.

The draft cut a swath through the tenor and
bass sections, but the deficiency was made up by
men over thirty-eight years of age who had been
on the waiting list, and by soldiers who hitch—
hiked in from camps twenty miles away. There is
not a great singer in the chorus. You can sing in
it if you have a good voice and can carry a tune.
It is not even necessary to be able to read music.

The pioneers who started the chorus came over
in 1869 from the Province of Varmland, Sweden.
They survived the first winters in dugouts, and
before they took time to build adequate homes they
constructed a church out of stone. They named it
Bethany Lutheran Church, and in this building
they started rehearsing “The Messiah.” On prac-
tice night men hurried to finish the milking in
the evening ,and hitch up the horses to drive to the
church; women set the bread after supper, took
ofic their aprons, and climbed into the wagons to go
along; farm boys stomped into the church in their
heavy boots. They attended rehearsals faithfully——
whole families of them—the Olsons, the Johnsons;
the Petersons, and all the rest.

The person who had undertaken to teach the
difficult oratorio was Mrs. Alma Swensson, bride
of Carl A. Swensson, pastor of the church. Mrs.
Swensson found that many of the singers could
not read music. She put numbers above the notes
to help them. There were not enough sopranos, so
she chose some of the young boys whose voices
had not changed and stood them up to sing with
the women. (But boys have been banned from

661

662 HOLY WEEK IN LINDSBORG, KANSAS

the chorus for fifty years.) Sometimes there was
no fuel to heat the church, and then she held sec-
tional rehearsals in homes, using tuning forks to
give the pitch when no piano was available.

The first performance was given in the church
in March of 1882. In the same spring, the chorus
traveled by lumber wagon to nearby communities
and sang, giving the proceeds to another brave
new institution of the Lutheran church, Bethany
College at Lindsborg. Since then the college has
been the sponsor of “The “Messiah.”

The chorus grew. Pioneer people traveled many
miles by horse and wagon to hear. The crowds
overflowed the church. The minister, Dr. Carl
A. Swensson, who had founded Bethany College
and had become its first president, proposed to
erect a building that would accommodate the big-
gest “Messiah” crowd anyone ever dreamed of. It
was to seat 1,500 and cost $5,000. Staunch Swed-
ish settlers contended that taking on this over-
powering expense, with no prospect of ever hav-
ing the building filled, would be madness. The
college trustees refused to have it on the campus
for fear the mortgage would jeopardize the land.

Dr. Swensson went ahead anyway. The build-
ing, a round frame structure filled with crude
wooden benches, was built in 1895 on a lot adjoin-
ing the campus. The first Easter it was filled.
Crowds flocked to Lindsborg by special trains on
the Union Pacific and Missouri Pacific lines. The
great singers and instrumentalists of the world
journeyed there as soloists—Gadski, Galli-Curci,
Fremstad, Hempel, Elman, Matzenauer. Some-
times they had a hard time getting there. The day
before Pablo Casals, renowned cellist, was to give
a concert in 1920, Lindsborg was isolated by
heavy snow. The artist arrived on time, anyway,
riding the last twenty-live miles on the railroad’s
snow plow.

When the famous soprano, Lillian Nordica, sang
at the round building in 1902, the young men of
the chorus were so charmed by her voice and
beauty that after the performance they unhitched
the horses from her carriage, and themselves drew
her through the streets of
Lindsborg, shouting, “Nor-
dica, Nordica!” When they
reached her hotel, Nordica,
touched by their gallantry,
took roses from her bouquet
and tossed one to each of
the young men. Charles
Hawkinson planted a slip

"Our folkways are no’r +he ways of +he peas-
an+s who danced and sang in +he fields. . . .
Bu+ +he ministrations of song are unchang-
ing. To +he degree wi+h which its sincer-
il'y and spontaneity can be recapiured, to
thaf degree will +he groups of +oday enioy
again the release from sl'rain. +he courage
and ioy which singing gave 'l'o +he peas-
anls of old."—From The Womans Press.

from his rose stem and it grew for many years in
Lindsborg as the Nordica rose bush.

The old building where Nordica sang was
eventually outgrown, and this time the trustees of
Bethany College were the ones to plan insanely!
They wanted a building of brick, to cost $235,000.
But Lindsborg, by this time, had friends. The
Theodore Presser Foundation, established in
Philadelphia by the founder of Etude, the music
magazine, gave $75,000. Saying, “America has
only one Lindsborg; I want to be a part of it,”
Ernestine Schumann-Heink went out to the old
frame building and gave a benefit concert. Marion
Talley, then at the height of her career, did the
same. The two concerts brought in $10,000. The
“Messiah” chorus sang in Kansas City and Okla-
homa City and earned $15,000. Most of the rest
of the money came by good hard digging by
Swedish farmers and townspeople, and when the
big brick buildng, Presser Hall, was erected in
1928, the Swedes paid cash for all of it.

The building seats 2,100 persons in the audience
and 500 in the chorus. You could put the entire
population of Lindsborg in the auditorium with
seats to spare. Every year on Palm Sunday and
Easter it is filled to overflowing by pilgrims who
pay fifty cents and a dollar for the seats. The
small financial benefit provided by the “Messiah”
chorus has helped its sponsor, Bethany College,
through many a‘tough semester.

These war days, Lindsborg people follow with
anxiety the news from Sweden. The bond with
the mother country is kept strong through cor-
respondence among relatives, religious ties, old-
world customs, and the Swedish language, which
still is spoken in many of the homes of Lindsborg
and is taught in the high school and Bethany Col-
lege. The Swedes know one service that is wel-
comed by their loved ones, and they perform it
regularly by sending packagesmof coffee overseas,
that those in the old country may also have their
six cups—at least—every day. "

“Today music is playing a more important part
in the nation’s life than ever
before. . . . Music is de-
veloping and functioning in
new ways, but with new
pressures in all our lives,
some of the oldest reasons
for using it become more
valuable than ever.”——Marie
Oliver.

RECREATION

Oakland’s uDoing Something About lt”

 

They've "gone into action" in
Oakland. where the schools are
serving as recreation centers for
the city's youth and are combat-
ing iuvenile delinquency under a
plan of community cooperation
which offers some unusual features

By R. W. ROBERTSON

Superintendent of Recreation

Oakland , California

Courtesy Oakland Post Inquirer

” UR BOYS AND GIRLS are going to the dogs!”

0 “What can we dO about our youth?”

“Give them wholesome recreation!”

“Open more recreation centers! Keep the play-
grounds Open longer!”

“Somebody do something !”

Such is the wail that has gone up across our
country, emphasizing conditions spotlighted by
war.

The established character of many a community
has altered, to all appearances, overnight. Com—
munity populations have changed as young men,
leaving as citizens, are replaced by soldiers, sail-
ors, marines and flyers; newcomers Of differing
economic, geographic, and racial backgrounds must
.be accommodated and assimilated; unskilled and
semiskilled workers are following the war indus-
try dollars. Housingjlnd transportation, public
health and safety, public morale and law enforce-
ment become community-wide problems, demand-
ing solution.

Oakland, California, as a new center Of ship-
building and as a port Of embarkation and recep—
tion, is only one Of the many cities whose public
Officials have been importuned by the pleas, “some-
body do something.”

Recognizing that the situation Of the “teen-
agers” was serious, Ralph E. Hoyt, as District
Attorney and Director of the Alameda County

MARCH 1944

I"

Defense Council, called together a group of some
ninety men and women representing all phases of
interest in the youth problem. The facts of the
situation having been placed squarely before this
group, a subcommittee, with Judge Frank M.
Ogden Of the Alameda County Juvenile Court as
chairman, was formed to find solutions through
community organization to alleviate the mounting
juvenile delinquency rate. This subcommittee,
functioning through the spring and summer of
1943, made recommendations which had far-
reaching effects on public recreation in Oakland.

TO bring the solution Of a dangerous social prob-
lem up to Mr. and Mrs. Citizen and their neigh-
bors, the Parent-Teacher Associations were asked
to survey their school districts to determine the
number.of children and their leisure time, the ex-
isting recreation facilities and the types Of recrea-
tion activities in which the children are interested,
and tO make recommendations upon the facilities
and personnel needed to care adequately for the
needs Of each district.

Community Councils Organized

Each district was asked to form a community
council to develop a recreation program and to
see that existing facilities are used to capacity.
Recreation departments and public libraries; pub-
lic, private and parochial schools; character build-

663'

664 OAKLAND’S “DOING SOMETHING ABOUT IT”

ing agencies and churches were asked to give their
wholehearted support to these councils and to re-
cruit volunteers and paid workers to carry on
needed programs.

In arriving at these recommendations, the sub-
committee assisted in the establishment of an ex-
perimental area to test the validity of this type of
attack upon the problem of youth. A community
council was formed with the cooperation of the
Recreation Department, who assigned a full-time,
resident recreation director to the large recreation
center in the heart of the test area. Soon there-
after, with the assistance of the community coun-
cil, a youth council was formed in the high school
to assume the major responsibility in developing.
directing and supervising the activities for youth
centering in the recreation center and high school,
for, naturally, many of the activities requested by
the youth council could best be served by the
existing facilities of the school. Through this com-
munity organization high school students, their
teachers, the Recreation Department, the character
building agencies, the churches and‘civilian defense
units have been more closely united in a recrea-
tion and leisure—time program for youth.

Aside from having the facilities to attract the
teen-agers and young adults, the Board of Edu—
cation had a reservoir of alert, youthful-minded
teachers to serve as experienced leaders on a part-
time, paid basis. To the Recreation Department
this source of leadership was almost entirely shut
off by a limitation of the City Charter restricting
municipal employees to $50 per month or less if
they also drew salary from some other govern-
mental agency.. As a result, it appeared logical
for the the Board of Education to enter upon a
diversified, afterschool and evening recreation pro~

gram, using the existing facilities of the secondary
schools of Oakland.

Cooperative Planning Not New in Oakland

For the Board of Playground Directors to join
with the Board of Education in providing a public
recreation program for all people, with special
emphasis on children, is not new for Oakland.
The Recreation Department had its start in 1907
when the members of The Oakland Club, as a
philanthropy, secured permission from the public
schools to operate free playgrounds—upon two
school grounds for the summer vacation period.
In 1909 the Oakland Recreation Department came
into formal existence with both municipal and
school playgrounds under its jurisdiction. In 1915

a definite agreement was made with the Oakland
Public Schools whereby the Recreation Depart-
ment operated the afterschool playgrounds on week
days the year round, as well as- on Saturdays,
Sundays, and during vacation periods, with lead-
ers selected by that Department but paid, on school
days, by the Oakland Public Schools. As the
schools expanded so did the playgrounds, until in
1942 there were thirteen municipal playgrounds,
forty-six elementary, twelve junior high and three
high school playgrounds in regular operation For
this recreation program the Board of Education
contributed $16,000 per year for operating school
playgrounds on school days and the City of Oak-
land through the Recreation Department expended
$71,000 for the recreation program on municipal,
school and community center grounds throughout
the year. The Board of Education, through the
Recreation Department, allowed the twelve school
gymnasiums to be used at night by teams paying
a nominal service charge. For all school facilities,
the Board of Education assumed the custodial and

, maintenance costs.

A New Plan Is Put in Operation

In September 1943 a new working agreement
was established between the Board of Education
and the Board of Playground Directors, adminis~
tering the municipal recreation department. By
this agreement the Oakland Public Schools agreed
to assume the full responsibility for the public rec-
reation program on the secondary school level in
the seven high and fourteen junior high schools of
Oakland and San Leandro, an adjacent community,
as well as to assume all the night recreation activi—
ties in all the school buildings, elementary as well
as secondary. The Oakland Recreation Depart-
ment was to carry on the recreation program 011
all municipal playgrounds, and in community cen-
ters, camps, clubhouses and other special service
centers, as well as to direct and pay for the leader-
ship and supplies for all.the elementary school
playgrounds.

To draw up this agreement, and keep it in force,
a permanent working committee, composed of the
superintendent of recreation and of schools and
one representative from each of the administering
boards, was set up. The purpose of this committee
is to plan 'for the fullest use of existing municipal
and school facilities for recreation, to keep a flexi-
ble recreation program in operation that adjusts
to fit the current needs as they arise, to preserve
the dual programs in balance and coordination, and

RECREATION

OAKLAND’S “DOING SOMETHING ABOUT IT” 665

to seek methods for financing the work so that a
unified and cooperative public recreation program
will be presented the pe0ple of Oakland.

In terms of finances to carry out the program
plans for 1943-44, this meant that the City of
Oakland, by Council appropriation from the tax
levy, would contribute one cent on the tax rate,
or approximately $27,500, toward the Board of
Education’s recreation program, and that Board
would contribute approximately $40,000. F or as-
suming the entire costs of the elementary school
program for- the first time
in years, the city recreation
department received an ad-
ditional grant of $42,500
which was to permit, in ad—
dition, the supervision of
many of these playgrounds
until dark each day. The
apprOpriation for the Recre—
ation Department for 1943-
44 has been set at $259,600,
which, it is estimated, will
be supplemented by income
of $70,000.

The Oakland School
Board has combined its
recreation program with that
of physical education under
a supervisor of physical edu-
cation and recreation em—
ployed for twelve months
of the year. The Oakland
High School District has
been divided into six geo-
graphic districts, each center-
ing around a high school with
its complementary junior high
schools, and is developing its program upon the
district plan with the equivalent of a full-time
recreation coordinator for each of the districts,
also employed on a year-round basis. It is the
duty of the coordinators to promote, plan for, de-
velop, direct and coordinate community recreation
in their districts,» centering their school activities
in the secondary schools, using elementary school
buildings for supplementary facilities at night. In
doing their work the coordinators cooperate with
the Recreation Department, the character building
agencies, the churches and their staffs, Operating
within the same geographic area. Teachers and
other skilled recreational leaders and specialists

MARCH 1944

 

Courtesy Oakland Post Inquirer

are employed on a part-time basis to take direct
responsibility for groups.

Under the school program there are afterschool
playgrounds on week days and Saturdays on all
the junior high school grounds in the city. There
are playgrounds on Saturdays, also, on the senior
high school grounds, but as yet a Sunday play-
ground program has not been undertaken. Each
of the seven high schools and two elementary
schools have community recreation programs
operating in the facilities of the schools every
weekday night except Sat-
urday. The gymnasiums are
used for team and informal
games for boys and girls,
separately or collectively,
with programs for physical
fitness and social recreation
adding variety and interest
to this phase of the activi-
ties. Youth dances, operat-
ing under youth councils
established in each of the
high schools, are held twice
a month in the school gym-
nasium or auditorium. One
high school has a recrea-
tional orchestra meeting for
evening practices, two others
have bands, and one has a
rifle club. As the daylight
hours lengthen, more em—
phasis will be put on play—
ing out of doors on the

.\‘
\

 

“'5 Play nigh,“ CaSHemmt High athletic fields until dark.Adults
School Gymnasuum. and the girls are

playing a lively game of basketball

of the neighborhood, too, have
been encouraged to make use
_ of the facilities, and have or-
ganized badminton groups and folk dancing clubs.
The school department is ready to aid any new
adult groups of twenty—five or more persons that
have their own leadership and direction, and these
groups will be fitted in the program of the com—
munity wherever facilities and supplies are avail-
able. Handcrafts have had to be discouraged be-
cause of the difficulty of starting anew, at this time,
without supplies or equipment.

Leadership for the teen age programs is
selected from well-qualified and understanding
teachers of the certified staff. These are paid on
an hourly basis at the same rate as prevails for
similar employees of the Recreation Department.

666 OAKLAND’S “DOING SOMETHING ABOUT IT”

To date, ninety-odd such teachers have been em—
ployed, including the ten teachers serving as full
or half-time coordinators.

Activities for the teen-agers are a result of the
expressed desires of the students as canvassed
by the youth council. When facilities, supplies and
leadership can be secured, groups are organized to
meet the need. The youth councils, acting through
their officers and committees, establish and main-
tain the standards of the participants, and entrance
is upon the basis of membership cards issued to all
members of the student body having the consent of
the parents. Conduct not up to standard is cause
for revoking a membership card.

One of the first problems of the gym nights was
to care for the younger brothers and sisters who
wanted to be included or were sent along with the
older children. This required the development of
some special activities for the younger level, to
leave the secondary school boys and girls free to
enjoy their games with children of their own age
level and ability.

As yet the program for the summer months for
.the junior and senior high schools has not been
developed, but it will be distinct from the school
year program and will emphasize out—of—door play,
with the indoor program coming after dark in the
gymnasiums and auditoriums of the schools. Spe—
cial neighborhood picnics, swim and skating parties
will be arranged under adult guidance.

The Recreation Department Carries On!

For the Recreation Department the new pro-
gram makes little change. Whereas the junior high
school playground on week days, and the Satur-
day-Sunday vacation playgrounds on three high
school grounds have now been taken over by the
Board of Education, the Recreation Department
continues to operate all the elementary school
playgrounds the year round, in many cases length-
ening the supervised play period on week days
until dark. This, combined with a full playground
program for patrons of all ages on the municipal
playgrounds every day, the year round, until dark.
The leadership for these playgrounds is secured by
the Recreation Department and trained through
volunteer service and work on the job, under the
watchful eye of division directors who have gained
experience through years of service to the depart—
ment as playground directors. These division
directors are assigned to geographic areas of the
city corresponding to the districts set up by the
school department that contain elementary school

and municipal playgrounds, and they are headed
up and given leadership by the supervisors of rec-
reation and the superintendent. Playground sup—
plies for both the municipal and elementary play-
grounds are secured from the budget of the Recre-
ation Department. In the case of the elementary
schools, the Board of Education carries the cost of
the custodian service and maintenance.

The Recreation Department’s program of mu—
nicipal recreation, which uses the facilities of the
community centers, swimming pool, lake, golf
course, camps, tennis courts, special ball diamonds,
and picnic areas, is in no way affected by the new
working agreement with the Board of Education.

Such a broad program of recreation, utilizing
all the public-owned facilities suitable for recrea—
tion under the jurisdiction of the city and the
school district, is made possible by the California
Community Recreation Enabling Act passed by
the Legislature in 1939, permitting school districts
to expend funds for the wider use of school build—
ings for public recreational services where these
services do not conflict with the established pur-
poses of the public schools. In addition, the
Charter of the City of Oakland permits the Board
of Playground Directors full jurisdiction over all
municipal recreation facilities and allows such
working agreements for the public benefit as have
been set forth. The Charter, too, permits a special
appropriation from the tax funds to aid the Board
of Education in its program.

The new working agreement finds Mr. and Mrs.
Citizen and their children very much the gainers.
All the facilities of seven high schools and fourteen
junior high schools suitable for community recrea-
tion purposes, together with the elementary school
auditoriums needed to supplement and fill out the
program of the other schools, have been thrown
open, under well-qualified leadership, for the use
of the people of the neighborhood every night of
the week except Saturday and Sunday.

The Board of Education has had the facilities,
and now the boys and girls, and the men and
women are invited to make these facilities their
leisure time centers.

Already the success of this method of deve10p-
ing good citizens from our youth is apparent. The
plan has the additional advantage of awakening in
neighborhoods the realization that responsibility
for the solutions to many social problems lies in all
working toward a common end. Thus can we over-
come, in some degree, many of the detrimental
forces unleashed in communities in wartime.

RECREATION

Community Garden Park

HE TRULY magnificent re-
Tsults of the Victory Gar-

den drive all over North
America have Opened our
eyes to a. need which has so ,
far been overlooked and has
been left unsupplied : the need
to provide areas of easy ac-
cess where at a reasonable
price land can be rented for
the making of small gardens.
Certainly every park man who has had anything to
do with the Victory Garden movement must have
been impressed by the enthusiastic response of the
people to the call for more gardens. But it is neces-
sary that we realize that this response and, most of
all, the loving persistent care which most pe0ple
bestowed upon their small war gardens was not
occasioned only by the patriotic desire to help in
an emergency or by the fear that not enough food
for civilians might be available. Thousands, if not
millions, of our pe0ple have the secret wish to have
a small garden of their own. This wish remains
unsatisfied with most of them, since they find it
impossible to obtain garden land near their homes.
In this war emergency they were given their
chance. Not only was land allotted to them, but
the free advice and counsel of innumerable experts
was put at their disposal. They received not only
the opportunity to satisfy their own desire, but
also every encouragement and, later, praise and
prizes for their good work.

ment of Victory

This is said not to diSparage the efforts of the
victory gardeners but, on the contrary, to empha-
size that the rodts of this apparently spontaneous
movement actually go very deep and are perma-
nently anchored in the hearts of our people. We
park men must realize that it is up to us to satisfy
this need for gardens which has thus been uncov-
ered, and that by doing so we will not only fulfill
our office of extending required service to the pub-
lic but will actually help ourselves. We are stand-
ing at the dawn of great social changes and we
must either go with these changes or perish. By
aiding in making a large part of the population
more garden conscious, we reap the additional
reward that our public parks will be better appre-
ciated and, with public cooperation, will be made

MARCH 1944

By H. TEUSCHER

This comprehensive plan for the develop-
Gardens in Montreal.
Canada. originally appeared in the
November-December
Parks and Recreation, through whose
courtesy it is reproduced here. Mr.

Teuscher is the curator of the Montreal
Botanical Garden and the City Parks.

safer against thoughtless or
willful vandalism.

The housing situation with-
in our modern industrial
cities, which prevents a ma-
jority of the people from
having gardens of their own,
can well be compared with
that prevailing in the fortified
towns of medieval EurOpe,
where houses were crowded
closely together for protection inside of the walls,
and room for gardens could not be Spared. The
people had to go outside of the towns to make
gardens and a continuous green belt~ of gardens
usually developed all about the periphery of the
fortifications. Later, in more settled times of
peace, these green belts were preserved in many
instances and expansion of the cities took place
outside of them. Our cities are not confined within
the walls of fortifications but land values in the
city pr0per are so high that again it is impossible
for the average citizen to own a garden near his
home. He has to go outside and, at present, he
usually has to go so far outside of the city that
most pe0ple resignedly give up the idea of ever
having a garden of their own. A wise city gov-
ernment should provide for this need by setting
aside certain tracts of land on the outskirts of the
city and within easy reach of transportation. In
these places, permanent garden colonies should be
established where people can rent small gardens at
a reasonable price. Such garden colonies may well
be made an integral part of a new type of public
park such as shown in the accompanying design
on the following page, proposed for Montreal, and
can then be as attractive as they will prove useful.

I943 issue of

To make every effort in this direction is very
much in the interest of any city large or small.
Community gardening with a self-governing com-
mittee, such as visualized in the scheme here pre-
sented, will tend to foster tolerance, good will, co-
operation and neighborliness and will therewith
help to create better citizenship. For the physical
and mental health of the citizens, ever of prime
importance to a city administration, no more per-
fect leisure-time exercise than gardening as a
hobby can possibly be devised.

667

 
 
 

   
  
   

 "“ '\'
J
I.

'4 “GT-T
I §

1:1
“ . 3;
Ir 3,
I:
I; 3
[E l
I: l—
If 3:
.9
- 4h
l;- ‘5

Ill-III.
Q C d ‘ C ¢ Q

  

IIIIIIIIIII
“EIIIIII III

V V U I

  
 

."

 

  

".1

ALL

SEA.

0
Z
3
O
a
3
(
.I
c.

———-—-

2
III
a:
o
:3
1:
U
4
'E
m

  
 
 

PAR KIN

 

    
  

City of Montreal, Daphot Parks and Gardens-

Courtesy Park: and RecreatiOn

Community Garden Park

COMMUNITY GARDEN PARK

To explain the accompanying map the following

lines may be quoted from the report submitted by
the writer to the City of Montreal:

“The new park herewith proposed covers ap-
proximately thirty-two acres of land sloping
gently southeast. The soil is of very good quality
for gardening purposes.  sharp slope on the
north end of the property, 20 to 25 feet in height,
sets off an elevated section of land along Sher—
brooke Street which is reserved for a public
picnic ground. From this vantage point a beau-
tiful view of the whole park may be obtained.
Trees are to ’be planted here for shade and a
period of about five years must be allowed for
these trees to become well—established before the
picnic ground may be opened for public use.
Fireplaces, water and sturdy benches of half
logs should then be installed. The slope itself is
to be planted with hardy shrub roses and the
native Canada Plum (Prmms nigra). Both of
these, easy to establish, are very handsome in
flower and their fruits can be employed to make
high grade jams and jellies. The rest of the
park has been divided into 350 individual gar—
dens 2,000 to 2,500 square feet in size, which
are made accessible by several 25 foot tree and
flower lined avenues and a number of I 5 foot
wide one-way service roads. Visitors are to be
confined as much as possible to the use of the
avenues. Six tree-shaded places at which to sit
and rest are also provided for the visitors. The
playground for small children is intended mainly
for the use of the families who have gardens.
This playground may be enlarged or, in case
that it should not prove to be sufficiently neces—

.sary, it may be abandoned without impairing the

design of the park.

“Near the center of the garden community a
lawn space 250x400 feet in size has been set
aside and is intended for a social and educational
gathering place for the gardening families. A
harvest festival may be held here and outdoor
movies and lectures may be given.

“On the western end of this lawn space, fac-
ing Viau Street, it is proposed to build a pavilion
or ‘garden center’ which is to contain an office
for administration purposes, a meeting room for
the garden committee, public telephones and a
fair-sized vestibule, in which small competitive
shows of garden produce can be arranged.

“A room for a small lending library of garden
books to be maintained by the garden commu-
nity itself may also be provided for.

RECREATION

COMMUNITY GARDEN PARK 669

“The basement of this pavilion should pro-
vide room for public rest rooms, the winter
storage of garden tools and a canning plant.

“Against the rear wall of this pavilionn‘out-
door movies may be projected. In order to fa—
cilitate traffic at times when evening activities
center around this pavilion, a parking Space for
approximately 200 cars has been provided in
front of it. During the day, most gardeners will
prefer to park their cars near their gardens
which they can do without impeding traffic.

“It is herewith suggested to plant as shade
trees' along the avenues a variety of apple of
upright growth which holds its fruits well. This
proposal may sound like an invitation to trouble
or carrying optimism too far. However, I be-
lieve that it is well worth while making a trial.
The individual trees should then be rented for a
small sum to the various garden owners and the
garden community as a whole would have to
watch and guard them. The pruning and spray-
ing of all the trees would be done by one man
specially appointed and paid for this task. The
general appearance of such an avenue.“ lined by
apple trees would be extremely attractive espe-
cially in Spring when the trees are in flower.
Since there are 350 gardeners there who will
regard these trees as their own and will watch
out for them, damage should be reduced to a
minimum and the final result may well be that
the general public becomes more garden-cons—
cious and consequently will in the future show
greater respect for other trees in other parks
also.

“On the inside of the 25 foot avenue circling
the gardens, flowering shrubs such as Potentilla
and Spiraea as well as certain easy perennials
such as Hemerocallis, Iris, Peonies and Heliop—
sis are to be planted 011 the 7 foot wide strip
between the sidewalk and the road. These will
require very little care and will provide a bril-
liant display throughout the growing season.”
The organization of the garden community itself

must, of course, be left largely to the group of peo-
ple who garden there. It is visualized that a set
of rules and by-laws will be developed along the
lines which have proved so effective in the various
existing garden clubs. Here in Montreal we are
fortunate in having a private body called “Com-
munity Garden League of Greater Montreal”
which for over ten years has been active in organ—
izing and directing subsistence or community gar-
dens on a temporary basis. This league will now

MARCH 1944

assist the city park department in establishing
these permanent garden communities and also will,
at least in the beginning, practice a selection among
those who apply so as to favor the most serious-
minded and to weed out those who are completely
without any previous experience whatsoever.

An‘ ideal setup would include one paid employe,
having his office in the pavilion mentioned above,
for each garden colony as large or larger as the
one here proposled. This employe would take care
of the administration, keep up to date files of the
gardens—which would have to be numbered—and
of the people who occupy them, collect the rents,
organize lectures and educational movies as well
as small exhibits, etc. He should be a thoroughly
trained and eXperienced gardener, able to give
professional advice to the members of the garden
community. Such a man should receive a salary
of $1,800 to $2,000 a year and could be either a
city employe, detailed for this valuable educational
work and paid by the city, or a city employe lent
to the garden community for a period of six or
seven months every year against a refund of his
salary for this period, or he may be employed en-
tirely by the garden community and be paid from
the funds accruing from the rents of the gardens.
The latter arrangement would, undoubtedly, be the
most difficult one, since a man of this type would
have to be employed on a year-round basis and he
would hardly have enough work during the winter
to justify his salary. Besides, the necessity of
raising the money for his salary might cause the
rents to become too high. The ideal solution would
certainly be if the city could supply and pay this
man in consideration of the fact that he performs
an even more valuable service than the monitors
now supplied for the city playgrounds.

The city would clear, level and prepare the
ground; build and maintain the roads; build and
maintain the pavilion; plant and maintain the trees,
shrubs, hedges, flowers and lawns and erect a
fence around the outside of the whole section con-
taining the gardens. This part of the construction
would be very much the same as it would be with
any other type of park except for the fencing. The
additional expense for the fence, however, would
be compensated for to a large extent by the fact
that this type of park will require much less plant-
ing and, therefore, much less maintenance than any
other public park of equal size. Three men from
the park department throughout the growing sea-
son should amply suffice to keep this park, includ-
ing the picnic ground, in good and neat condition.

670 ' COMMUNITY GARDEN PARK

It is also pro- r
posed that the
city install wa-
terlines to the
gardens. Only a
comparatively
short part of the
water main from
the street would
have to be laid
frost proof, the
rest may be sum-
merlines laid in
such a manner
that they can be
drained in the
autumn. If only
one tap is sup-
plied for every
four gardens,
such an installa-
tion would cost
probably be—
tween $30,000
and $40,000.

5..
l

“Pf-Ir"! J run-u."

The accom-
panying design
for the park also
presupposes that 3-foot galvanized wire fences are
erected along the roads and surrounding the gar—
den blocks. These could also be erected -by the city
at an approximate cost of $25,000 to $30,000.

On this total investment in waterlines and fences
of approximately $70,000, the garden community
should pay four per cent yearly interest to the city
amounting to some $2,800.

It is proposed that the gardens be rented at the
rate of one-half cent per square foot or $12 for
a garden 2,400 square feet in size. This would
bring from the 350 gardens, some of which are
smaller while a few are larger, an approximate
yearly income of $4,000, this rent to be paid not
to the city but to the garden community. From
this $4,000 the following expenses will have to

‘be deducted:

Yearly interest on the investment in
fences and waterlines to the city. $2,800.00

25c per garden as membership fee in
the Communty Garden League . . 87.50

The balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .$I,100.00
would represent an expendable sum of approxi—

'— —_- .4..—_—-_

_,COMMUNHTY- GARE EN

SAMPLE DESIGN OF TWO INDIVIDUAL GARDENS

marge 5; i4. land-4.. Canter Ile
I

 

. J V
' - It Gila-I
“ $7- - .v « Carr‘s-7...... u . ’ 3
., an » M. .4 -~

 

I

1.4.9. monwmm

. M
l 1'. C

l1M|l0I$

- WWI-arm”
I new". ' "

3

l

3!

I-l nu ‘ ' '
"3733!? - tj

. ‘2' ' 2.1
luv-nu. W ' fl
% “a

i V I

   

m at? Jana-mu

Courtesy Park: and Recreation

mater $3.00 per garden which could be employed
in buying at least certain kinds of seeds in whole-
sale lots. Or it could be used to purchase manure
during the summer when it is more easily avail-
able than in the fall or spring and this manure
could be stored in the place which has been set
aside for this purpose in the general design.
Current expenditures of administration, the ex-
penses arising from the arranging of small com—
petitive exhibits of garden produce as well as of a
harvest festival would also have to be covered by
this fund.

There are various other possibilities for making
good use of this fund, for instance: a small one—
page mimeographed leaflet giving timely horticul-
tural information to the garden owners may be
published bi-weekly or monthly, or a sinking fund
may be built up with part of this sum from which
plants, tools and lumber for the building of cabins
can be bought at wholesale rates to be resold at
cost to the gardeners. It will haveoto be left in
each case to the community garden committee to
work out details such as these and, if this commit-
tee decides that it is unnecessary to have a fund as
large as here proposed, the rents may be lowered

RECREATION

COMMUNITY GARDEN PARK

accordingly. It is also possible to do away with
the 3 foot fences proposed above to surround the
garden blocks, but, before this is decided upon, one
should carefully consider how much more protec-
tion and privacy the gardens will have if such
fences are provided than if they are left out. If the
blocks are fenced, the individual gardens also can
be fenced very economically if the occupants of the
gardens of the whole block share the expense. The
cost of such interior fences could be refunded if
someone had to give up his garden and the next
occupant could pay again the same sum.

However, if fences around the garden blocks are
considered unnecessary, the design, as submitted,
can still be employed. In that case, the seven-foot
planted strip shown on the outside of the side-
walks may be moved to the inside of the sidewalks
as shown on the accompanying sketch. This will
then serve to separate the gardens from the side-
walks along the main roads. If outside of the
boundary fence, no fences are installed, interest
will have to be paid to the city only on the invest-
ment in waterlines and the rents could be lowered
in proportion.

It must be understood that the whole scheme,
as outlined above, cannot be forced upon anyone,
nor is such a procedure intended. How it can best
be made to work and what adjustments may be
necessary in order to succeed, only experience can
tell.

For these reasons, it is our intention here in
Montreal to start
gradually. Only
one section of l
the new park,
sufficient to ac-
commodate some
fifty gardens is
to be plowed,
harrowed and
leveled this fall
and then plowed
and harrowed
again in the
spring. After the
spring harrow-
ing, the gardens
will be lined out
exactly as shown
on the map, two
temporary roads
as indicated on
the map will be i“ ‘

 

 

l MARCH 1944

 

671

marked out and roughly graded. A temporary
access from the street will be provided, and tem-
porary waterlines will be installed. For the time
being, it is our intention to rent these gardens at
the flat rate of $5.00 per garden, with the under-
standing that the rent may be raised later on when
the park is finished and the additional facilities as
planned are provided. It will then be largely up to
the growing garden community itself to decide as
to how far and in which manner they will wish to
have the proposed scheme carried out.

That the basic idea is extremely popular is
proved by the fact that although, so far, no pub-
licity has been made for this new scheme, it has
been bruited about and applications are pouring in
from people who are gladly willing to pay $5.00
and more if only they can be assured that they can
keep their gardens for a number of years.

For future development, it may be suggested
that such permanent garden communities can well
be combined with playhelds. They may either sur-
round the playfields as an attractive green belt,
laid out in park fashion, or may be concentrated on
one of the extremities of the available area.

“ ‘Cabbages and kings,’ when Lewis Carroll
linked them together, spelled nonsense. But not
today. Cabbages—and all the other good green
produce of the earth—tare helping to shape the
future of the world.”—Pcml M cN utt, Administra-
tor, Federal Security Agency.

tioMMuJNMY-GARDEN PARK.

At7tRkAfiv‘E ICII‘IM! In. 'LAHIIN‘ MaNi Yul ROAR!

1! ilutls an: HIV our

 

} (w Courtesy Park: and Recreation

I

Society ot Recreation Workers ot America

A list of the committees serving”
in l943-l944, with their members

I. Auditing 7. Keeper of Records
Chairman: Karl B. Raymond, Director of Chairman: Allan Krim, Recreation Depart-
Recreation, Board of Park Commissioners, ment, Newark, New Jersey.
Minneapolis, Minnesota; William F. Temple, 8. Membership

Jr., LaGrange, Illinois; Russel J. Foval,
Superintendent of Recreation, Recreation
Commission, Alton, Illinois.

2. Civil Service Legislation

Chairman: Wayne C. Sommer, Recreation
Secretary, Council of Social Agencies,Wash-
ington, D. C.; A. E. Genter, Director of
Recreation, Recreation Department, Akron,

Ohio.

Chairman: Milo F. Christiansen, Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Recreation Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C. ; Jeanne H. Barnes,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; J. W. Feldman,
Director of Recreation, Department of Rec-
reation, West Hartford, Connecticut; Robert
L. Homey, Director of Recreation, Board
of Park Commissioners, Davenport, Iowa;
Charles Graves, Field Recreation Repre-

3. Constitution sentative, Federal Security Agency, Atlanta,

Chairman: Lieut. Comdr. F. S. Matthewson, Georgia.

District Welfare and Recreation OHicer, 9. Nature Recreation
Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes, Illinois. C hairmaa: William G. Vinal, Massachus-

4. Committee to Secure an ExecutiviiI Secretary of setts State College, Amherst, Massachusetts.

the Society _ IO. Nominating
Chairman: Thomas W. Lantz, Director of Chairman; Thomas W, Lantz, Director of
' Recreation, Recreation Department, Denver, Recreation, Recreation Department, Denver,

67’)

Colorado; Alfred W. Anderson, Director of
Recreation, Board of Education, St. Louis,
.Missouri; C. H. English, Executive Secre—
tary, Playground and Recreation Associa—
tion of Philadelphia, Inc., Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania; Margaret Mulac, University
Settlement, Cleveland, Ohio; Dr. Frank
Harnett, Assistant Director, Long Beach
Recreation Commission, Long Beach, Cali—
fornia.

5. Industrial Recreation

Chairman: Guy L. Shipps, Employees’ Per-
sonnel Service, Dow Chemical Company,
Midland, Michigan.

6. Joseph Lee Memorial

Chairman: Chase Hammond, Superintend-
ent of Recreation, Recreation Commission,
Waterloo, Iowa; Kathryn E. ,Krieg, Super;
intendent of Recreation, Playground and
Recreation Commission, Des Moines, Iowa;
Arch Flannery, Director of Recreation, Bat-
tle Creek Civic Recreational Association,
Battle Creek, Michigan.

Colorado; John  Syme, Superintendent
and Secretary, Hamilton Playgrounds Com-
mission, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Ralph
Hileman, Field Recreation Representative,
Federal Security Agency, Nashville, Ten- '
nessee.

II. Postwar Planning

Chairman: George Hjelte, Superintendent,
Department of Playground and Recreation,
Los Angeles, California; Josephine Black-
stock, Director, Playground Board of Oak
Park, Oak Park, Illinois; V. K. Brown,
Director of Recreation, Chicago Park Dis-
trict, Chicago, Illinois; George D. Butler,
National Recreation Association, New York,
New York; E. Dana Caulkins, Superintend-
ent, Westchester County Recreation Com-
mission, Westchester County, White Plains,
New York; Milo F. Christiansen, Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Recreation Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C.; Harry L. Coe, Jr.
Superintendent, City Recreation Depart-

(Coutinued on page 697)
RECREATION

Mrs. Herbert Hoover

ary 7, 1944, the national recreation movement

lost one of its devoted friends. ‘For twenty
years Mrs. Hoover had been a supporter and a
contributor to the National RecreationAssociation.
She was particularly interested in the work for
women and girls. She had herself led an active
outdoor life. On trips with her father she had de-
veloped a fondness for the joys and hardships of
strenuous outdoor living. She knew what it was
to tramp cross—country. She had lived with her
husband in remote mining camps and was well
acquainted with all that is involved in camping out.

I N THE DEATH of Mrs. Herbert Hoover on janu-

MARCH 1944

 

Copyright by Harris 8 Ewing

For several years Mrs. Herbert Hoover was
president of the Girl Scouts, was a leader in that
organization for many years.

Mrs. Hoover was ready to help in building the
national recreation movement. She understood its
possibilities as only a few individuals do. No one
could meet her and talk with her about the prob-
lems of the work without being deeply impressed
by her simple, direct ways, her sincerity, her ef-
fectiveness, her statesmanship, and her readiness
at all times to give her best. Mrs. Herbert Hoover
made a_notable contribution to her generation and
to those who are to come after her.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

673

What's Happening on the West Coast?

the blues. Thou-
sands of blues in
every shade from trim
Navy uniforms to the
faded blue of work-
worn overalls and the
smart blue caps of the
Aircraft girls. They’re
all there on the Pacific
shore, and other colors
too. In fact, the whole
spectrum; too many
colors and too many
people all suddenly
tossed together in a mad
frenzy of wartime living.
But the West Coast
isn’t so blue about it

THE WEST COAST has

now as it was when the .

violent mushrooming

By FLORENCE WILLIAMS

The West Coast is emerging from its
wartime blues—and there's a reason!

 

RECREATION is fortunate in being able to offer its
readers a series of articles on recreational develop-
ments on the West Coast prepared by Florence

Williams. USO Consultant on Health and Recrea-
tion for the National Y.W.C.A.

The West Coast. with its shipyards. huge aircraft
plants. training camps and Navy bases. is in a "mad
frenzy of wartime living.’' In this. the first of a
series of three articles. Miss Williams gives a bird's-
eye picture of the situation and outlines some of the
problems faced. The articles to follow will be packed
with facts and anecdotes telling of the kinds of rec-
reation programs which are in operation not only in
the clubs but in trailer camps and housing units.

retail stores; none or
too few day-care cen-
ters for children of
working mothers; an
almost complete lack of
wholesome recreation.
Add to this the prob-
lems of the thousands
of young Army and
Navy wives and families
who follow their men
for that possible last
chance to be together,
and you have a kaleido-
scopic picture which is
so swiftly changing, so
tremendous in sCope
that it would challenge
the tall tale-telling of a.
Baron Munchausen.

began. Because the Fed-
eral government, state
and local communities, public and private agencies,
are all doing their best to make order out of what
might well have been chaos.

A stream of more than 800,000 war production
workers has “poured into the West Coast since
July 1941, raising the total number of war work-
ers to more than 1,200,000. And the Army and
Navy guard as a military secret how many hun-
dreds of thousands of uniformed men and women
they have added to the population.

This tremendous number is not scattered evenly
along the coast but massed chiefly in five areas:
San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle,
and Portland. Populations in some towns have
tripled. A city has sprung up where before was
waste land. Huge new aircraft plants, tremendous
shipyards, Navy bases, coastal defense, Marine,
Navy and Army training camps, desert troops, and
huge military hospitals. They’re all there.

Boom town difliculties are magnified by impos-
sible housing and overburdened transportation;
inadequate sanitation systems and a shortage of
help and medical care; overcrowded schools and
too few teachers; too few and badly located res-
taurants ; crowded, understaffed and understocked

674

 

I

There’s San Diego!

Look at San Diego—-
a few years ago a haven for sun worshippers and
convalescents. It had adequate social agencies, a
thriving recreation department with beautifully
equipped buildings, playtields and beaches. To-
day, with 200,000 brand new residents, it, strug-
gles valiantly to keep up with the tidal wave.
Hundreds of thousands of men and women in
uniform are stationed within a radius of twenty
miles. Great plants such as Consolidated Aircraft,
Solar Aircraft, Rohr’s and Ryan Aeronautical are
located there—just to mention a few of the dozen
or so war industries and yards adjacent to the
city. Why, estimates have it that 50,000 women
alone are working at wartime jobs within the
county! ’

One USO center in San Diego had to lay a new
marble floor when the feet of more than 600,000
marine, sailor and soldier visitors a month
pounded holes in the old one.

Wartime San Diego is a city of drama, both
tragic and comic. What can one say about the
young mother who brought her three-months’ old
baby across the continent by bus so that her father
might have at least one look at his first-bom girl—
only ’to discover father had already left? What

RECREATION

WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST? 675

about the great loneliness of the small town girls
working at odd shifts on their first jobs, living
sometimes six in a room, standing in line for food,
no place to go for fun? Is it surprising that the
rate of turnover in several plants reached 100 per
cent in a three-month period? And on the lighter
side—what about the girl worker who turned
around to tell off a man calling, “Hiyah, babe ?”
at her, only to discover he was her sailor-brother
last seen two years before in her small home town!
The Federal government recognized that the
state of affairs presented by San Diego and other
crowded centers was a real threat to war produc-
tion goals. So the War Manpower Commission
and the War Production Board set up the “West
Coast Manpower Program” which is attempting,
with the approval of the Office of War Mobiliza-
tion, to synchronize manpower and production.
The communities themselves are doing their best
to help newcomers by putting schools on shifts, in-
creasing water supplies and
sanitation facilities. Buses
have been run all night and
on strange routes for the
swing and graveyard shifts.
Huge housing projects have
sprung up.'Private and pub-
lic agencies work together to
cut down juvenile delinquency
which has soared to an all-time high.

Something More Is Needed

Everything that can be done to simplify the
mechanics of living and working is all to the good.
‘ But people cannot “live by bread alone” even in
wartime. In such overcrowded communities we
must lessen the deadening boredom of “no place
to go” and “nothing to do.” Even a few moments
of fun for a war worker at the end of a tense and
fatiguing day can cut down job turnover, lower
absenteeism, and so hasten the end of the war.
Not only must we hasten the end of the war but
we must hold tight to those things that make
America worth fighting for. As Howard Braucher
of the National Recreation Association so aptly
“said: “One of, the things our fighting men want
“ for themselves and for others is the chance for

comradeship, for the enjoyment of beauty, for .

participating in sports, for sharing in neighbor-
hood and community life. We must keep for
Amegiga their cultural recreation opportunities

they have found so important.”
All recreation leaders face lack of experience

MARCH 1944

"Everything that can be done to simplify
the mechanics of living and working is
all to the good. But people cannot live
'by bread alone' even in wartime. . . . Not
only must we hasten the end of the war.
but we must hold tight to those things
that make America worth fighting for."

with such a variety of problems. They must cope
with the tensions, too, that arise because this tre-
mendous war migration includes people from every
section of the country; people of different races
and of all nationalities. At one trailer camp party
attended by 120 persons, forty-six states and ten
different nationalities were~represented, and not
one person had lived in that community a year!
In a boom town one may meet the resentment of
the old community when it has seen the town it
loves changed overnight, and the bitterness of the
newcomers when they get no welcome from the
old residents. One trailer camp built to house
three hundred and fifty families had only twenty-
five in residence at the time of my visit because,
said one of the remaining women, “Those folks
just couldn’t take being called ‘trailer trash’ and
never being asked anywhere. They’ve all gone
back home now.”

Such a situation represents a real loss to Ameri-
can community life. Not only
a loss in production at the
near-by plant, as important
as that is, but a step back in
the practical application of
our fundamental belief in
democracy.

What a responsibility and
magnificent opportunity for
those of us who lead the playfields and the free
recreation of America, to help people live together
and enjoy each other, learning their differences and
appreciating the potential strength of a nation built
on the strength of all nationalities, all races.

That sounds good, but it’s easy to lose sight of
a goal in the overwhelming pressures of day—to-
day living and working in a pressure community.
It isn’t just the pressures of the working day,
either. Even our staff people have their living and
housing diHiculties.

One of them in southern California calls home
a renovated chicken coop at $50 a month plus cost
of utilities. It consists of an incredibly small bed-
sitting room, a badly equipped kitchenette, and a
lavatory shower. The bed is a Victory couch with-
out springs. The only lighting in the house is one
lamp in the living room,"as it has been impossible
to secure wiring. The  is on_ an extension
from the main house. Andour worker is con-
sidered lucky to have this palace in a town where
there are no more rooms and where the cheapest
dinner on the menu of the one and only clean.
coffee shop' costs $1.75!

676 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE IVEST COAST?

Clubs Everywhere

Federal, state and local governments, public and
private agencies are all helping solve these many
problems. The USO, set up as an emergency
measure, is helping, too. Its work with members
of the armed forces is paralleled by its work in
war industry areas with war production workers.
The industrial program is intended to help com-
munities meet the impact of new or expanded war
industry and to offer to war workers opportuni—
ties for recreation they cannot buy elsewhere at
any price, and sorely needed welfare service.

To meet such vast problems the USO has estab-
lished clubs all over the country. Of its 1,672
centers, 231 are on the West Coast. Some of them
are in large government buildings, in one-room
shacks, in lover old homes, in rooms above stores.
in former CCC buildings. We also operate mobile
clubs to service desert troops and sometimes we
operate in a trailer or in a housing project.

It’s hard to generalize about nationally operated
USO clubs. But there are certain things they all
have in common. They all have a trained staff
prepared to work with people in planning their
own recreation. They all have a lounge where
men and women can drop in any hour of the day
or evening to make themselves at home and do
what they want to do without being told to join
any special group or activity. The visitors can sit
down and write a letter,
read, take books out of the

 

This USO club at Riverside. California. is
one of the BI established on the West Coast

library, play table tennis or pool, chess, checkers.
or other quiet games; listen to the radio or play
symphonic or swing records in a quiet room—0r
they can just sit and do nothing if theywvish.

These clubs answer the obvious need for an in—
formal room which each community could use as
its own. Informal and drop~in activities are im-
portant as well as planned programs. An imagina-
tive leader can often develop programs out of the
air, so to” speak. One of our directors once found
a piece of paper on the writing desk with some
fancy doodling on it. She pinned it on a bulletin
board with a sign asking: “Who dunnit? Who
else would like to try P” Before the week was over
she had placed art supplies in a conspicuous corner
of the lobby and it was amazing to see how a
sketching group materialized —-- from that one
doodle, so idly done.

Another clever leader overheard two Italian
boys from the Bronx lamenting over the fact that
there was no spaghetti restaurant in that town.
Immediately she went into action. The next night
the two boys joyfully prepared a complete Italian
supper while town girls and soldiers decorated the
room and planned a program that included Italian
folk songs and dances, a color film of Italy, and a
short talk on Italy’s contribution to civilization.
That party was so successful that a similar one
has been held each week in honor of some other

country. The staff member
(Continued on page 694)

 

Photo by Richard I". Esgate

RECREATION

A New Service by Older Girls

URING THE PAST thirty-
D one years Girl Scouting,

planned for girls of ten
to fourteen years of age, has‘
shown by a steadily increas—
ing membership that it meets .
a real need. The membership,
distributed over every state
in the Union, Alaska, Puerto
Rico, the Panama Canal, and
the Hawaiian Islands, num-
bers 841,830—an increase of
nearly 125,000 during the past year.

In answer to a demand from all sides, an ad-
vanced program for older girls has been developed.
In the six years since its introduction, the mem-
bership of Senior Girl Scouts has grown to 43,000
girls rahging in age from fifteen to twenty years.
This Senior program has been planned, not for the
girls but with the girls, and in many instances by
them. A large part of the program has gravitated
unswervingly toward vocational exploration.

The war has
accelerated the
Senior program
and has brought
maturity to the
girls. It has,
therefore, been
a natural de-
velopment that
the program ac-
tivities should
fall into lines
of war service.

The girls are
serious and sin—
cere in their de-
sire to help in
the world strug-
gle. Many of
the boys with
w h o m t h e y
have gone to
school are serv-
ing at the front
or are in train-
ing camps. Of
the same age

MARCH 1944

By CHESTER G. MARSH
Arts and Crafts Adviser
Girl ScoutsI Incorporated

A new service is being offered by Girl
Scouts-——one which will undoubtedly be
welcomed by hard-pressed and over-
worked hospital staffs. It is a proiect by
which older Girl Scouts; through their
skills in arts and crafts, will serve
as aides to occupational therapists.

 

as these boys in uniform, they

cannot '~ join the W A C S,
WAVES, or SPARS,
and they feel that few oppor-
tunities which seem of equal
importance to those given the
boys are offered‘them to help
in the war effort.

Girls of this age want, need,
and demand channels for
pent-up energies and loyalties.
The Senior Girl Scout pro-

gram is trying to provide these channels and the

response from the girls has been far beyond all
expectations. They do not ask for glamourous
projects—they want to do real work that they
know is effective and fills a need.
Since Pearl Harbor these girls have given liter-
ally years of service, counted in work hours, in
day nurseries, on playgrounds, on farms, in mu-
seums, in libraries, and in hospitals. As farm aides
they have done the menial, odd jobs in the farm-
yards to release
the older peo-
ple for heavier
work in the
helds. As hospi—
tal aides they
have run er-
rands, helped in
'the kitchens,
mended surgi-
cal gloves, and
d 0 n e m a n y
other chores.
The services
they have given
and the un-
selfed, disci—
plined way in
which they have
served have
been astound-
ing. In giving
this service they
have received
f rich rewards in
 growth, under-
standing, self-

M“

Paul Parker Photo

677 ‘

678 A NEW SERVICE BY OLDER GIRLS

discipline and in preparation for future careers.
Their leaders, also recruited in large part from the
younger professional women, teachers, nurses, and
secretaries, have gained in spiritual stature through
their volunteer work and the preparatory train-
ing. Both leaders and girls, through these ser-
vices, have proved their ability to take training
and to accept responsibility.

The work in occupational therapy is considered
not only an emergency service but a service that
will steadily increase in scope and importance as
an aftermath of the war. It will serve as an intro-
duction to professional careers. In developing the
project, the National Girl Scout office is working
in close cooperation with the American Associa-
tion of Occupational Therapists. Leaders of Senior
Girl Scout troops are being trained in the classes
for volunteers conducted by the occupational
therapists, and members of the Girl Scout staff
are assisting in the organiza-
tion and instruction.

Occupational therapy is a‘
new profession. Since the
meaning of the word therapy
is “healing,” the combination
of words by which this new
profession is known is “heal-
ing by means of work or oc-
cupation.” The objective of all
occupational therapy is to
bridge over that period when
people are returning, sometimes very slowly, from
a shadowy land of pain to a more or less normal
place in everyday life.

Individuals react in different ways to shock or
sustained pain, but in general they are either high-
strung, nervous, emotional, and hysterical or they
are melancholy, moody, and low in spirit. It is to
remedy these mental reactions to illness that occu-
pational therapy is prescribed. Sometimes the ac-
tivity is music, sometimes reading, sometimes
ga1nes-—more often it is arts and crafts.

The Girl Scouts plan to give service through
the knowledge gained in the Girl Scout field of
arts and crafts, a field in which many of them have
had several years’ preparation through their pro-
hciency badge activities and preparation in such
crafts as pottery, weaving, woodcarving, book-
binding, and needlecraft.

A guide for this project has been prepared. In
addition to a condensed history of occupational
therapy, it explains the duties of the registered
occupational therapist and her position in the com-

l'The philosophy of remedial work is.
not new. It was practiced by the
Egyptians 4,000 years ago. As a pro-
fession, however. playing an import-
ant part in the general health pro-
gramI it dates back to |9|6 when
General Pershing called for a thou-
sand women volunteers to do Ibedside

occupational service' with the Ameri-
can Expeditionary Forces overseas."

plete health picture, and outlines the ways in
which the Senior Girl Scouts may assist. It speci-
fies that occupational therapist aides are regis-
tered Senior Girl Scouts over sixteen years of age
who are adept in arts and crafts; that they must
have the written permission of parents or guardi-
ans to participate in this project; and that they
must have satisfactogy health indicated by recent
health examinations.

The guide further points out that the aides may
serve in civilian hospitals, curative workshops, in-
stitutions for the blind, deaf and crippled, in homes
for the aged, and in institutions for children. In
some carefully selected and supervised cases they
may assist with convalescents returned to their
homes. They may not serve in government hos-
pitals or mental hospitals, nor do they work with
tuberculous patients. They work under the direct
supervision of registered occupational therapists
by whom all assignments are
made through the Girl Scout
leaders who will know which
girls in their groups are best
equipped for the work.

The girls, therefore, who
offer their services through
this project are organized,
supervised and especially
selected by their own leaders
as well as by the occupational
therapists whom they are to
assist. They are selected with the following quali-
fications in view: tact, interest in people, emotional
stability, and a sense of order. The guide stipu-
lates that they should have some special skills in
arts and crafts, should be willing to take training
for definite parts of their work, and should accept
responsibility to report for duty regularly. They
should be willing to give at least fifty hours of
work and to accept assignments as though they
were employees of the institution served.

Girls accepted as occupational aides understand
that the work may not always be directly with
patients or in hospitals. It may be in salvaging or
preparing materials, in making and preparing
equipment, in research, in messenger service, in
helping assemble and set up exhibits, in assisting
at sales of patients’ work, in putting materials in
order, in 'cleaning up and putting things away—
in short, in giving whatever assistance may be of
the greatest help to all concerned. They also un-
derstand that all services are gratuitous.

(Continued on page 694)

RECREATION

Industrial Recreation

INCE PEARL HARBOR, in-

dustry has performed

miracles. With remark-
able speed and lack of con-
fusion it has changed over_
from the manufacture of ci—
vilian goods to war produce—
tion. It has trained and in-
ducted millions of’ inexperi-
enced workers. Many new
buildings have been con-
structed and new machines
designed and built to produce
billions of dollars worth of war products. Many
new services, such as “share the ride,” gas and
food rationing, aptitude tests, and new production
methods have been introduced.

.—

In a word, industry, under the spur of in-
creased production for war purposes, has under-
gone a metamorphosis not only in production
methods but also in employee relations. In order
to raise w0rker morale to a maximum and reduce
absenteeism to a minimum, numerous new em-
ployee services have been created. Throughout the
length and breadth of the land, management and
labor have found themselves participating in pro-
grams heretofore operated in only the minority of.
plants.

Among these programs recreation is included,
for many industries, recognizing the need of
human beings for the opportunity to relax after
long working hours, have established within their
plants excellent recreation activities and facilities.
Others are in the process of organizing such pro-
grams. Still others pose the question, “Of what
value are employee recreation activities P”

Here are the answers submitted by industrial
recreation directors who have watched at close
range the effect of their programs on workers:

Recreation gives the worker the opportunity to
participate with others in activities which offer re-
laxation from long hours and the strain of work.

Recreation builds up self-reliance in employees
and creates esprit de corps among them.

Recreation provides workers with a natural out-
let for the expression of their desires and interests.

Recreation improves the physical health and
mental stability of employees.

MARCH 1944

By C. E. BREWER
Field Representative
National Recreation Association

It is our hope that this general article
' by Mr. Brewer. based on his experience
and on information gained from visiting
a large number of plants. may be followed
up in later issues of RECREATION by stor-
ies about recreation programs in indi-
vidual plants. We want. too. to hear from
recreation departments and other groups
who are cooperating with industry.

Recreation contributes 'to
better relations between em-
ployees and management.

Recreation, through the de—
velopment of leadership abil-
ity, helps discover foremen
and supervisory personnel.

Recreation provided by
plants is less expensive for
the worker than that provided
commercially.

Recreation programs that
are well administered help
attract a better class of workers to the plant.

Recreation builds and secures the good will of
the community and of the employees toward man-
agement.

Recreation creates worker morale and thus helps
increase production efficiency and reduce absen-
teeism. '

Trends in Industrial Recreation

Under the impetus of World War I, competi-
tive athletics flourished and the development of
recreation facilities in plants was encouraged. Dur-
ing the depression years many of the programs
were eliminated or curtailed. Then came the period
of unionization of the plants in 1937—1938, with a
change in the attitude of management and of the
unions, particularly in the steel and automobile in-
dustries. The unions, with the consent of manage-
ment, began, in some instances, to take over the

recreation program, and managment encouraged
this development.

With the impetus given World War II by the
Pearl Harbor attack, and with the resulting rapid
expansion of plants and per'sonnel, the need to
build worker morale became urgent. Some plants
grew, within a year, from a normal enrollment of
700 workers to 35,000. Factories were built in
cornnelds miles away from the nearest city and
were without recreation activities and facilities.
Absenteeism increased and worker morale was
low. The workers had not been able in such a
short time to develop their own leadership to care
for the millions of new employees, and the former

competitive athletic program took care of only a
small number of workers.

679

680 INDUSTRIAL RECREATION

As a result of these rapid changes and develop-
ments, a new system had to be created which
would provide a Wide range of activities for the
majority of workers; leaders had to be found and
facilities acquired and developed. As a consequence
there came into being a new system of recreation
programs which enlisted the cooperation of man-
agement and employees, with part of the cost
borne by the employees, with activities based on
employee interest, and with the programs to some
extent controlled by the employees.

Organization and Administration

Since no two plants have identical situations, no
one plan of organization can meet the requirements
of all plants, and there is no blueprint which will
fit all. The size of the establishment, the number
of workers and of shifts, hours of work and length
of work week, sex of the workers, the share-the—
ride plan, and the location of the plant in relation
to the nearest community are among the factors
which affect recreation programs and the way in
. which they are conducted. All of these factors, and
others, must be taken into consideration before a
decision can be reached

In some plants recreation is a separate and dis-
tinct unit. In others it is a subdivision of the in—
dustrial relations or personnel division, or is han—
dled by labor-management committees. In still
others it is a part of employee services which in-
clude not only recreation but war services, plant
publications, cafeteria, health and welfare, bond
and chest drives-——in fact, all nonprofit activities of
the plant.

A few of the types of organization in operation
follow:

Management. This plan operates through the
industrial relations or personnel divisions, or in
some cases under the leadership of a recreation
director; and jointly by employees. This method
is in effect at such plants as the McDonnell Air-
craft Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri; the Allen
Bradley Company,'Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin; the
Curtiss-Wright engine,
propeller and aircraft
plants; Allis-Chalmers
Corporation, West Allis,
Wisconsin; Briggs Manu-
facturing Company, De-
troit, Michigan; Schuster
Stores, Milwaukee, VVis-
consin.

"The industrial army of democracy must have
the same support we so gladly give those on
the training and firing linesI and that sup-
port must be given on the community front
where men and their families work and live. . . .
Management. labor. and local government
should unite now for speedy action in see-
ing to it that war production workers and
their families are provided with recreation
programs that will renew and refresh body.
mind, and spirit." — Eric M. Johnston.

Employee Associations. These exist at the Beech
Aircraft Company, Wichita, Kansas; Pratt-Whit-
ney Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri; Good-
year Aircraft Corporation, Akron, Ohio; Tube.
Turns, Incorporated, Louisville, Kentucky, and
others which might be mentioned.

Welfare or Benefit Associations. The Bendix
Corporation plants at South Bend, Indiana, and
Teeterboro, New Jersey, are examples of this plan.

Employee Service Divisions. Such as Boeing Air-
craft Corporation, Wichita Kansas; Lukas-Harold
Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; Servel, Incor—
porated, Evansville, Indiana; Champion Paper and
Fibre Company, Hamilton, Ohio. ,

Mutual Benefit. The Harnischfeger Corporation,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is an example of this type.

Foundation Trust. As in the North American
Aviation, Kansas City, Kansas.

Employee Clubs. These are found at such plants
as A. E. Staley Company, Decatur, Illinois;
Owens—Illinois Glass Company, in all twenty
plants; plants of the RCA in Harrison and Cam-
den, New Jersey, and Indianapolis, Indiana; Cat—
erpillar Tractor Company at East Peoria and De—
catur, Illinois; General Electric Company plants
at Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Schenectady, New
York.

Athletic Associations. The type of organization
at the Pollack Manufacturing Company, East
Newark, New Jersey, is an example of this type.

Labor-Management Committees. Among the
plants at which this form of administration is in
operation are the American Type Founders, In—
corporiated, Elizabeth, New Jersey; Alco of Mes-
sena, New York; Missouri Valley Iron and Bridge
Company (shipyards), Evansville.

Plant .Councils. These are found at a number of
plants including the Calco Chemical Company,

Bound Brook, New Jersey, and the Johns-Man—
ville Corporation, Manville, New Jersey.

Unions. Examples of this
type of organization are
Local No. 50, CIO-UAVV,
Ypsilanti, Michigan, and
Local No. 600, Dearborn,
Michigan.

In general, the conclusion
which has been reached on
the subject of organization
and administration is that
a reasonably ideal setup

RECREATION

INDUSTRIAL RECREATION . 681

for a plant recreation program involves an efficient,
centralized board, committee, or council elected by
the employees on a sound basis of employee rep-
resentation and interest from all departments and
every shift, with voluntary participation in the
program from membership in the association and
with the amount of dues decided by the employees.
Such a program should be under the leadership of
a competent recreation director, representing both
management and the employees, who will provide
the facilities, arrange programs and schedules, and
conduct activities for all the workers. It is felt
that better results are usually obtained if the em-
ployees contribute a little toward the cost of the
program.

If a separate employee association is formed for
recreation purposes, careful consideration should
be given to its incorporation as a nonpecuniary or-
ganization under the laws of the state. Incorpora-
tion is wise, particularly in view of the liability of
the officers for unpaid bills, civil suits, the right to
execute contracts, and to sue or be sued.
Incorporation is essential if the associa-
tion has stock, holds title to physical
property, or other facilities.

(See page 683 for a presentation of
three plans which, with some variations
for the individual plant, are being found
practical.)

Starting the Program

The way in which the program originates usually
determines the line along which the recreation pro-
gram will deve10p. In some plants management
may inquire carefully into the forms of organiza-
tion which havehbeen successful in other plants and
may adopt such a plan without discovering the in-
terests of the employees. A more successful pro-
. cedure, however, is to determine, before adopting
any plan, what the employee desires or is inter-
ested in, and the conditions in the plant. It is
obvious that a company whose employees number
12,000 people who come from 245 communities
within a radius of fifty miles of the plant would
not adopt the plan of a company whose employees
live within walking distance. Hours and days of
work, rotation of shifts, transportation problems,
and many other considerations_must enter into the
plan. 4

A method which is being successfully used is to
ask the employee when he is hired to indicate on
a card his recreation interests, and to develop the
program from the preferences indicated. It is even

MARCH 1944

 

better to permit the employees to get together
naturally and informally for bowling, choral groups
and dances, and from these activities develop the
employee recreation program into a substantial,
wide-range program of activities for all the work-
ers. Experience has shown that administrative
machinery runs more smoothly if the employees
enjoy at least a part control of their own program.

The recreation programs which provide oppor-
tunities for the employees to display leadership
qualities are usually the successful ones. Men and
women who promote activities through their own
interests and because of their natural ability to
plan and to “start the ball rolling” are invaluable
aids to a well-balanced recreation program.

Activities

A successful program includes a wide range of
activities for both men and women. Women are
now participating in almost every kind of activity
that men enjoy, and they should be given every
opportunity to engage in recreation ac-
tivities.

Some of the activities conducted in
plants include the following:

Athletics. Bowling, badminton, base—
ball, basketball, softball, boxing, fencing,
touch football, golf, hockey, horseshoes,
tennis, soccer, volley ball, archery.

Social and Club Activities. Choral and
glee clubs, drama, bands, orchestras, talent shows,
radio skits, dancing, movies, shows, boat rides, ex—
cursions, parties, hobbies, exhibits, chess, check-
ers, bridge and other card games, fashion shows,
banquets, and entertainments for men in the armed
services.

Other Activities. Bicycling, riding, riHe and
pistol clubs, swimming, skiing, tobogganing, hik-

ing, picnics, airplane and glider clubs, fishing and

bait casting, camping, skating (ice and roller skat-
ing).

Gardening: This is an important activity at a
number of plants.

Leadership

Recreation programs are of course more suc-
cessful if there is a competent worker giving full
time to the program. A survey of the leadership
in 100 big industries discloses the fact that the
star athlete is not, as popularly supposed, the rec-
reation director in the ma ority of industrial plants.
The study showed that 57 per cent of the leaders
have come from within the employee ranks; 7. per.

682. INDUSTRIAL RECREATION

cent were athletic coaches; 6
per cent were athletic stars in
college; 5 per cent were rec-
reation executives, while the
remainder were social work-
ers, salesmen, Y. M. C. A.
physical directors, orchestra
leaders, sports writers, psy-
chologists, and engineers.

A successful recreation director must have a
pleasant personality, must understand and know
the workers and how to get along with them. He
must have some technical knowledge and be able
to sell himself and his program to both employees
and management.

Financing the Program

The employee recreation program may be

financed by any one or all of the following methods:

I. ApprOpriations by management.

2. Membership dues by employees, which may
be either by payroll deduction from IO to 25
cents per month or by the payment of one
to three dollars annual dues, as determined
by the membership. In some plants manage-
ment matches dollar for dollar contributions
made by the employees.

3. The profits from the vending machines and
canteen sales throughout the plants. In some
plants even the profits from the cafeteria are
also applied to the recreation program.

4. Admission received from shows, theatricals,
dances, games, and other activities conducted
by the organization.

Plant Facilities

Many companies have provided athletic fields,
recreation buildings, clubhouses, and club rooms
for their employees. Only a few of the many which
exist can be mentioned in this article.

Athletic Fields. Athletic fields are to be found
at many plants, and innumerable instances of such
facilities might be cited. To mention just one—-
the Lukas-Harold Company at Indianapolis, In-
diana, last fall finished the development of‘a large
area of I 73 acres. The athletic field proper con-
tains 5 tennis courts, 4 softball diamonds, a base-
ball diamond, 6 volley ball courts, 12 horseshoe
pitches, 4 shuffleboard courts, soccer and football
fields, archery butts, ice skating areas, and a pistol
range. There are also two picnic areas in wooded
groves with tables and outdoor fireplaces. Part of
the .area is used for Victory Gardens and for the

Much additional information on indus—
trial recreation will be found in the
booklet, Recreation for War Workers,
published by the National Recreation
Association. This publication has been
favorably mentioned b
officials in industrial pants and pub-

. field 0i ln‘ius’W- lies. Mothers, armed with
Copies are available at 35 cents each.

lications in the

raising of vegetables to sup-
ply the plant cafeteria.
Afterthe first shift is over
at 5 :30 P.M., the. athletic field
is a favorite gathering place
for employees and their fami-

a number of

picnic lunches, bring the chil-
dren to the field to meet their
fathers and to play games with them during the

early evening hours.

A number of plants, such as the Elastic Stop
Nut Corporation in Union, New Jersey, and the
Calco Chemical Company at Bound Brook, New
Jersey, are in the process of constructing new

fields.

Recreation Buildings. Many instances might be
cited of recreation buildings provided by plants,
some of which have been in existence for many
years. The Singer Manufacturing Company,
Elizabethport, New Jersey, has recently com-
pleted a splendidly equipped building. At the
main entrance to its plant at Erie, Pennsylvania,
the General Electric Company has erected a com-
munity center. Two wings, each with a kitchen-
ette, two club rooms, and an assembly hall extend
from either side of the lobby. The interior is beau-
tifully furnished with leather and chrome furniture
and aSphaltic tile. The building is being used for
parties, dances, meetings, bridal showers, wedding
parties, and banquets. Any employees’ club' may
make application to use the community center
without charge.

Clubhouses and Rooms. Some plants have turned

° over entire floors for employee recreation. Among

these are the Carter Carburetor _Company at St.
Louis; Allen Bradley Company in Milwaukee;
and the Western Electric Company at Kearny,
New Jersey. The Owens-Illinois Glass Company
has a clubhouse or club rooms at each of its twenty
plants.

Occasionally buildings outside the plant are taken
over and remodeled for recreational use. The RCA
Club at Indianapolis has remodeled two floors of a
hotel to provide club rooms, while the employees’
association of the Cessma Aircraft Corporation has
taken over the Elks building in Wichita, Kansas,
for the use-of clubs. Facilities include a completely
equipped gymnasium, handball and squash courts,
lockers, showers, steam baths, and a conditioning
table, a dance floor, stage, snack bar, and table ten-
nis, pool and billiard tables, as well as a general
lounge room attractively furnished. BOwling alleys

RECREATION

. INDUSTRIAL RECREATION 683

in the basement are rented to a commercial oper-
ator, and time is reserved for the corporation’s
bowling teams of men and women. A director and
two part—time hostesses are in charge of social
activities for the more than 3,500 members. Activi-
ties are scheduled in the building from 9:00 A.M.
to 10:00 P. M., with dances held every night and
morning with the exception of Saturday.
, Before any large expenditure of funds is made
for plant facilities, the community facilities should
be thoroughly surveyed to see what facilities are
available in the community for plant recreation
programs. The recreation executive in the com-
munity should be consulted and arrangements
made to use, wherever possible, the playgrounds,
recreation centers, athletic fields, and parks. These

can generally be secured free, or at least at a-

nominal cost to cover heat, light, and janitor ser-
vices. School buildings, Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.,
settlement houses and those of social agencies, and
government—owned facilities such as armories, as
well as commercial recreation facilities, may be
secured for plant use.

Excellent use of community recreation facilities
are being made by industry in Decatur, Illinois;
Wichita, Kansas; and in the Milwaukee and De—
troit metropolitan areas, to mention a few.

Plans for Plant Recreation Organization
PLAN I
Departmental Representative Plan

If the industry has a large number of employees in
different departments, divisions, or other natural work-
ing units, a representative type of organization has been
found to be useful.

Plant Council. This plan involves the election of a plant
council composed of representatives elected by the work-
ers from each department, unit, or working division of
the plant, and from every shift. (The number elected
may be in proportion to the number employed in each de-
partment with each having at least one representative.)

Officers and Executive Committee. The plant council,
from its members, elect the officers of the association and
members of the board of directors, who, with either the
plant superintendent, the industrial relations director or
personnel director, and the recreation director form the
executive committee. The treasurer is generally a bonded
employee of the company. All moneys should 'be turned
over to him, and expended only after two signatures,
preferably those of the council president and recreation
director, are on the voucher.

Functions. The plant council determines the policy.
establishes a budget, outlines how the budget will be
raised—whether there will in membership dues or other
sources of revenue—approves all contracts and expendi-

MARCH 1944

tures of the executive committee, and decides what rec-
reation activities will be sponsored.

The executive committee, after the program and bud-
gets have been approved, operates the program through
the person designated to conduct the activities. In some
cases each member of the executive tommittee is the
advisor for one or more activities, and approves all ex-
penditures for that activity within the budget set up for
the activity, as submitted to him by the recreation
director.

Leadership. The person to handle the recreation pro-
gram may be a member of the industrial relations divi-
sion or the personnel division, or a person may be em-
ployed to give his full time to plant activities. Generally,
the recreation director is employed and paid by manage-
ment, and management may make contributions or ap-
pr0priations for the recreation program.

Financing. The recreation program may be financed by
appropriations from management, membership dues,
profits from vending machine and canteen sales, and ad-
mission fees. (See page 682.)

How the Program Works. The program of activities
sponsored should be based on the interests of the em-
ployee. For example, if a group of workers wishes to
organize a recreation activity, they submit their request
to the departmental representative, who in turn presents
it to the plant council. If a sufficient number of persons
is interested, the plant council considers the activity.
If it is approved, a budget is allotted for the activity and
the recreation director proceeds to put the activity into
operation.

Periodically, preferably each week, the departmental
representative is given a list of the activities in order
that he may announce to all workers in his department
interested when and where the activity will be held.

The departmental representative may have a distinctive
«badge or armband for the purpose of easy identification
by the workers who may be interested in the recreation
activity. This representative is also the booster of activi-
ties; he sells tickets, informs the new employees about
the association, and is held responsible to the executive
committee for every activity in his department. In some
plants the departmental representatives meet periodically
with the recreation director to discuss activities—their
success or reasons for failure—or to exchange experi-
ences and information with representatives of other de-
partments. The departmental representative is the back-
bone of the organization. He should have a good per-
sonality and the ability to promote, and. should not be
chosen solely because of his interest in a particular
activity.

I

The recreation director administers the program,
secures facilities and equipment, makes schedules, sees
that the activities are written up for the plant publication
or placed on bulletin boards, confers with departmental
representatives, and in general ‘is responsible for the
program.

Conduct of Program. The recreation program may be
sponsored by management, a labor-management commit-
(Continued on page 692)

' Wartime Recreation Councils in Small Cities

-‘i

NB OF THE surprising phe-
O nomena of wartime in the

United States has been the
action of large numbers of adults who have dropped
their volunteer youth leadership activities in order
to do “war work.” These well-intentioned people
roll bandages, gather salvage materials and engage
in a variety of enterprises that could actually be
carried on as well by others not skilled in youth
leadership. Meanwhile, clubs disband, play—
grounds close, and delinquency rates rise. And,
equally disturbing, new enterprises for adults as
well as for youth—activities that are greatly needed
because of wartime strains and pressures—cannot
be undertaken. All this, for lack of leaders.

It is generally conceded that the quality of life
of a community is indicated in no small measure
by the way in which the people use their leisure
time. This is significantly true in these war days
when a high purpose of the participation of our
nation in the conflict is the defending of a way of
life. Surely, then, leadership in recreation activi-
ties, whether meeting with a small group or plan-

ning for a city, is war work. Mobilization of re- .

sources in recreation becomes acfunction of some
community group that understands the need.

In Berkeley, California, the Civilian Defense
Council appointed a committee to work on this
problem of coordinating civilian recreation agen—
ies serving civilian needs. After working for five
months on the problem, it seemed desirable to ex-
change ideas with similar groups on purposes and
achievements. The writer,
therefore, as chairman of the
committee, addressed a let—
ter to similar chairmen in
fifty cities of approximately
the size of Berkeley. The
replies to these letters,
though few, were helpful
and interesting, and in their
turn raised some significant
questions.

Of the replies received, '
half were from Civilian De—
fense Recreation Commit-
tees, and half were from
other groups to whom the

684

By LOUISE S. COBB
University of California

 

In her very thoughtful article. Miss Cobb
evaluates the work of some of our wartime
recreation committees. chiefly those oper- public, semi-public, private
ating through civilian defense councils. and
cites in some detail the activities of com-
mittees in two cities. Space unfortunately 2. To establish, record, and
does not permit of our including all of Miss
Cobb's observations on the values and
functions of these committees, particularly
in their relation to other organizations.
This she sums up in a brief statement which
should have the approval of practical
workers in the field:
no reasonable obiection to any workable 3. To investigate and determine
scheme which will get the iob done."

''There seems to be

 

inquiry had been referred. In three
cities the Council of Social Agencies
had been designated by the Defense
Council as the group to consider recreation prob— _
lems, and in one city the public recreation depart-
ment council.

Services Rendered

The kinds of services reported varied consider-
ably. Two of the cities that seemed particularly
enterprising described their work as follows:

Wichita, Kansas

The Recreation Committee has given advice and

recommendations in the following programs:

1. A'recreation program for the residents of the Fed-
eral Public Housing Areas, and facilities for oper-
ating same.

2. A‘recreation program for war workers because “the
morale of the man behind the man who mans the
gun” is important in winning the war.

3. Application for federal funds to assist the Park
Board in operating its program because of the rapid
increase in population.

4. A clearing house for coordination of programs of
various agencies.

(NOTE: The activities of this and of other commit-
tees also included services for servicemen. These
have been omitted, since it is only recreation for
civilians that is under consideration here.)

Canton. Ohio

The following objectives and purposes of the
Recreation Committee of Civilian Defense have

been adopted:

1. To create sympathetic under-
standing among all organiza—
tions and individuals dealing
in any way with recreation
and recreation projects, be it

(amateur or professional) or
commercial, regardless of age.

make available for present
and future direction and
action, the existing available
Opportunities and facilities for
recreation in the Canton area
be they public, semi-public or
commercial.

what use is being made of
the present existing recrea—

RECREATION

Bradford. Pennsylvania. is one of
the smaller cities which is recog-
nizing its responsibility to youth

tion facilities and to evaluate the
effectiveness of same.

4..To coordinate and utilize all pres-
ent facilities in such manner that
there will be no over-lapping of
duties or obligations of any organi-
zation, be it public, private, or
commercial, in order that the gen-
eral public of this community shall
receive dollar for dollar for all ex-
penditures made in taxes, philan-
thropic contributions, or other
monies expended or fees charged.

5. After the accomplishment of the
aforementioned objectives to deter-
mine the additional needs, if any,
that are necessary for a well rounded
recreational program within our
community, and bringing these facts
to the attention of the proper authorities and execu-
tives, we feel that a complete recreation program may
be organized to best serve the interests of our com-
munity.

6. In times of stress such as is induced by the exigencies
and difficulties of war, people do not always recognize
the need of a balanced philosophy of living including
the motive of play as well as of work. This commit-
tee should recognize the need of bringing to the people
of our area the values of proper recreation.

To date, all surveys have been met and material
compiled for the publication of a recreation guide
which is anticipated to be distributed in every
home in the city of Canton.

In addition to the kinds of activities listed, the

following were cited by other cities:

Registration of volunteers for recreation work

Training institutes for volunteers

Cooperation with High School Victory Corps

Preparation of a home play bulletin

Study of the need of recreation for industrial workers

Special committee on juvenile
delinquency

A meeting with representative
young people, and reporting
of their suggestions for rec-
reation to all churches and
group work agencies

Operation of recreation units
for the summer

In a southern city: A study of
Negro recreation needs, and
the carrying out of recom-

MARCH 1944

For the benefit of those interested in

securing additional information regard-
ing the function of local defense coun-
cils in promoting recreation, Miss Cobb
calls attention to the following pamph-
lets: "U. 5. Citizens Service _Corps":
"You and the War"; and "Recreation in
Wartime." available through the U. 5.
Office of Civilian Defense, Washington.

WARTIME RECREATION COUNCILS IN SMALL CITIES 685

 

Photo by R. D. Fraser

mendations through the Negro Community center.

These are quite impressive lists of activities that

have been carried on by recreation committees in

a few small cities. Through group planning and

‘action some cities have apparently been able to

make real progress with their recreation services
in spite of the manpower shortage that is so baf-

Hing to others.

However, certain services that have been sug-
gested by the National Recreation Association, the
American Youth Commission and other groups,
are, interestingly enough, not specifically men-
tioned in these replies. They include: (I) the
organization of committees of youth to consider
the recreational needs and problems of youth in
their own communities and to devise ways of solv-
ing these problems; and (2) specific attention to
the teen age groups and to the very special war-
time problems facing these
young people. There is grow—
ing realization of the import-
ance to young people of in-
telligent participation in the
work of the world. Floyd
Reeves, for example, has re-
cently said, “Earlier, and as
part of vocational preparation,
I stressed the value of work

'\

686 WARTIME RECREATION COUNCILS IN SMALL CITIES

for wages. In citizenship training young people
while still in school should have the experience—-
equally educational—of work without wages, work
done in a common cause and paid for by inner
satisfactions and a rich community life.”1

It need not be inferred that no city of 75,000 to
100,000 population has worked on these sugges-
tions. But in case any of them has not, it may be
worth while to point out that they seem fruitful
sources of both leadership and service to a com-
munity.

Significant Values

Are there any indications that there are signifi-
cant values, beyond immediate objective achieve-
ments, in the kinds of civilian recreation commit-
tees here discussed? It seems to the writer that
there are.

First, there is “the fostering of a sense of public
responsibility to the entire question of recreation”
that Counts has posed as one of the basic issues in
an adequate recreation program.2 Urgencies of
wartime housing and industrial expansion have
sharpened the focus on the importance of commu-
nity planning for recreation. As all the different
kinds of people, with their varying interests, un-
derstand the total city problem better, the idea of
public responsibility to the question of recreation
translates itself into concrete terms implying action.
It is tremendously important for the public—the
lay public—to take the active part they have been
taking, in studying, with professional recreation
workers, the place of recreation in enhancing the
quality of life in the city.

Second, there seems, also importantly, to be
some attempt to interpret the meaning of recrea-
tion to the public. When a city, like the one cited,
has discovered that “pe0ple do not always recog-
nize the need for a balanced philosophy of living
including the motive of play as well as of work,”
we may take hope. The task of interpretation is a
great one, and may well constitute a major chal—
lenge to any recreation committee. No committee
undertaking such a task will fall into the old error
of conceiving recreation as merely sports promo-

 

1. Floyd W. Reeves, Education for Today and Tomorrow. Cam-
bridge: Harvard Univ. Press, 1942, pp. 63-4.

2. Geo.  Counts, The Social Foundations of Education. N. Y.:
Scribner, 1934, p. 307.

tion. Rather will they recognize the infinite variety
of cultural activities that, engaged in with “the
motive-of play,” are recreation to the infinitely
varied personalities of the community.

Third, the jurisdictional disputes that have some-
times arisen between private and public agencies
seem insignificant, in wartime, when the oppor—
tunity is offered to pool resources for the welfare
of a city. Agencies that are dependent on commu-
nity chest support, and those municipally operated,
have sometimes been at cross purposes with each
other with regard to recreation. City—wide recrea-
tion committees have consistently included repre—
sentatives of both groups in their membership. A
permanent solution to some of the past difficulties
must assuredly arise out of the urgency of these
days. This will redound to the credit of all con-
cerned.

Fourth, there is implicit in the picture the reali-
zation that the schools may have a far greater
part to play in the area of leisure—time education
than many of them have appreciated to date. Physi-
cal education, art, music, English literature, sh0p
work——~these and many other school subjects could

, be so taught that people would turn to them

throughout their lives, with the “motive of play.”
It seems absurd that committees must work so hard
trying to lure pe0ple to try out this or that recrea-
tional activity, when these people have completed
their “education” in our schools. Something they
have learned might be eXpected to touch off some
spark of interest for continued participation. Per—
haps recreation committees will want, then, to in-
vite educators to think through with them this
problem of the schools’ responsibility for educa-
tion for leisure.

And, finally, it is apparent that the war effort
has shown the value of community organization in
more inclusive units than we have known before.
The experience that is being gained in the tech-
niques of cooperation will stand us in good stead
in the always troubled days of a postwar period.
The greater understanding of the factors .that make
for the “good life” in. our cities should bring that
good life nearer to us all. Wartime recreation
councils or committees, organized as they have
been in some cities under councils of civilian de-
fense, dealing as they do with matters that are of
vital interest to the people and that touch them
closely, may indeed serve the nation well, if it is
planned that they shall.

RECREATION

 

Print by Gedg: Harmon

WORLD AT PLAY

They All Work in the

Victory Garden at the Home of Be—

nevolence, San Jose,
California, covered
5,000 square feet of ground and helped feed the
seventy-five children in the Home, who wouldn’t
' eat squash unless it had been grown in their own
garden!

V—DISC records of clas-
sical, semiclassical, and
popular music are now
supplied to soldiers in
all commands of the United States Army through-
out the world at the rate of 100,000 a month. This
-is a new program of the Music Section, Special
Services Division, authorized to fill a need for fur-
nishing servicemen with the types of music they
have been accustomed to at home. The twelve inch
pliable records are shipped to all Army installa-
tions overseas monthly in sets of thirty different
discs, and to posts, camps, and stations in the
United States in sets of six. Top—ranking artists,
symphony conductors,‘and name-band leaders are
cooperating with the Army in furnishing music
free for the records. The records, double discs
with two numbers on each side, can be played on
standard speed, hand-wound or electric machines.

The War Department is issuing to servicemen

Music for United States
Soldiers

MARCH 1944

THE Victory Gardens «-

Chicago Park District

a leaflet entitled “Hymns from Home” containing
the words of thirteen well-known hymns and the
Twenty-third Psalm.

WHEN the Hopewell,
Virginia, Chamber of
Commerce recently
held a community
meeting to discuss postwar planning, recreation
and city parks were stressed time and again by the
pe0ple who attended. Cards were passed during
the meeting and those present were asked to make
suggestions for postwar planning. Later the cards
were read and nearly every one of them mentioned
community recreation as one of the fields that
needed planning.

Recreation Stressed in
Postwar Planning

THE Chicago Park
District has conducted
a “sustaining” radio
program on one of
Chicago’s leading radio stations (WBB‘M‘), which
is part of the CBS chain, on each Saturday for the
past seven or eight years. The programs extend
over fifteen minutes and deal with practically every
one of the many types of activities carried on in
Chicago’s parks. Some are illustrated by short
dramatizations; others are presented in interview
form. Lately the Park District has invited promi-

Offers Radio Scripts

687‘

688 ' WORLD AT PLAY

Summer Playground
Notebook

IF—there were nothing but sketches in
this book you would want to order it
for your recreation library, so attractive
and amusing are these drawings.

BUT—it is full of practical suggestions for
playground programs, phrased in
popular language which makes it de-
lightful reading! It comprises the 12
issues of bulletins sent last summer to
communities conducting only sum-
mer playgrounds, and designed -for
their exclusive use. But news of the
bulletins spread abroad, and so many
requests for them reached us that we
have ordered additional copies and
had them attractively bound.

ANDLthey are now available for your
use in book form at $1.00!

Order from the

National Recreation Association
. 315 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. N. Y.

 

nent visitors to appear on the program and give
their impressions of the city and its park and rec-
reational facilities.

Fred G. Heuchling, Director of Public Infor—
mation at the Park District, states that he has a
reasonably complete collection of these scripts,
which will be supplied free of charge to any park
or recreation official until the supply is exhausted.
Those interested should write him asking for scripts
dealing with the particular activity or subject that
interests them.

%

A Thirty Year Anniversary—The Little
Country Theater, established by Alfred G. Arvold,
celebrated its thirtieth anniversary on February
9-12, 1944. The National Recreation Association
has worked closely with Alfred G. Arvold for most
of these thirty years, and the leaders in the Asso-
ciation join with Professor Arvold’s many other
friends in paying tribute to him and in recognizing
the influence he has had in the United States and
,. throughout the world.

Cooperatives Conduct Recreation School—-
Every year but one since 1936, a recreation school

has been held under the auspices of the Coopera-
tives. The school covers a two weeks’ period with
the cost per student varying with the number at—
tending. Last year the fee was $38.50 which in—
cluded board and room: Various Cooperative
groups send members to the school.

In certain areas weekly institutes are held under
the Cooperatives. One such institute has’ sessions
each Monday evening for lifteen weeks, the ses—
sions running from 8:00 to 11:00 P. M. Some
groups have had meetings with the leadership
coming from the group itself. Further information
may be secured from the C00perative League of
the United States of America, 167 West 12th
Street, New York City.

The Home Recreation Library—Recreation
workers will find helpful material in the series of
booklets issued by the Home Recreation Library,
305 West 56th Street, New York City, on sale at
many stationery stores and similar distributing
stations at 25 cents each. Among the booklets now
available are: 50 Rainy Day Games for Children;
Sixty Swell Pencil Games; The World’s Best
Quizzes; The World’s Best Puzzles; H are to Win

at Gin Rummy.

New York Schools Introduce Relaxation
Periods—In the schools of New York City an
attempt is now being made to get the students to
relax more through the periods of exercise. Re— ‘
laxation periods of at least two minutes each are
required two times a day by the new course. The
type of activities to be engaged in during these
periods is to be governed by a consideration of the
type of work previously engaged in and the physi-
cal condition of the children.

The rest period is to provide complete relaxa—
tion for each child, who will be free to stretch arms
and legs and relax in his seat according to his own
inclination. An exercise period will include previ-
ously learned activities, particularly vigorous ac-
tivities which will produce the tonic effect of in-
creased circulation. An informal period is de9
scribed as “really a visiting period. The children
are permitted to leave their seats, visit with their
friends in the room, or inspect the material dis-

played.”

Sundays-in-the-Parks in Providence—In the
May. 1943 issue of RECREATION, Jack Martin,
Chairman, Citizens’ Sunday Recreation Commit—
tee of Providence, Rhode Island, told of the Sun-

RECREATION

 
   
    
 
   

All. THE VOIT

SYNTHETlC-RUBBER-COVERED
ATHLETlC EQUIPMENT

Yes—the armed forces have first call
on our output. That’s why your dealer
has only a limited quantity of Voit Syn-

thetic-Rubber-Covered athletic equip-
ment. As to the limited quantity avail-

able for civilian use, be assured orders will be appor-
tioned fairly among our customers. We fully expect to
take care of your total requirements in late summer
and fall. To get your share of these new balls now,
contact your dealer early. Voit Synthetic-Rubber-
Covered Basketballs, Footballs, Soccer Balls, Volley
Balls, Water Polo Balls, and Soft Balls play better, last

longer, resist wear on rough playing surfaces, stay
inflated longer. Write for illustrated price list today.

BUY wmi BONDS REGULARLY

3
0 v SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
Mfgd. by W. .l. Voit Rubber Corp., 1600 E. 25th St., Los Angeles 11, Calif.
Chicago Branch-180 No. Wacker DrivewZone 6

MARCH 1944 , 689 l

690 WORLD AT PLAY

With the

A ,R M Y
N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in ’ every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

 

day afternoon programs offered last summer to
war workers, servicemen, and citizens at large. Mr.
Martin reports a highly successful “repeat” pro-
gram for 1943, with an estimated attendance of
300,000 for the fourteen Sunday entertainments.
The season ended September 19, 1943, with a
record-breaking crowd of about 38,000 people. It
was bond selling day at Roger Williams Park,
and War Bonds to the amount of more than
$38,000 were sold.

Manual of Sporting Rules, 1873—Among the
effects of the late John H. Chase, who for many
years was secretary of the Youngstown, Ohio,
Playground Association, was a book entitled M an-
ual of Sporting Rules issued in 1873, The con-
tents of the book covered the following sports: trap
shooting, canine, ratting, badger baiting, cock
fighting, the prize ring, wrestling, running, walk-
ing, jumping, knurr and spell, la crosse, boating,
bagatelle, archery, rifle and pistol shooting, shuf-
fleboard, shinny, quoits, skittles, handball, rackets,
fly casting, swimming, foot ball, pin pool, fifteen
ball pool, Scottish games, ten pins, skating, curl-

ing, etc., etc. The football rules included those
used at Rutgers College, Yale University, and by
the English Foot Ball Association.

Regarding Curfew Laws -— Recently State
Senator Thomas C. Desmond, chairman of the
New York State Senate Committee on Affairs of
Cities, made a survey on juvenile delinquency in
New York State as reported by the chiefs of police
of the state. In an article on the survey which ap—
peared in New York State Education for Decem-
ber 1943, Senator Desmond states that only a small
minority of the chiefs of police favored curfew laws.

Pacific Beach Holds Open House—From
500 to 600 people responded to the invitation of
the Pacific Beach Coordinating Council of San
Diego County, California, to an Open House last
fall. Practically all service organizations in the
community had prepared booths at which their
programs were demonstrated. The new residents,
old and young, were invited to identify themselves
with the organizations that appealed to them. Some
indication of the response may be gained by the
fact that the Red Cross booth enrolled twenty-five
blood donors. Music was provided by the Pacific
Beach Junior High School~band and prizes were
offered for the best poster advertising the event.

The Little Golden Books—Recreation lead-
ers interested in learning of' inexpensive but at-
tractive booklets for children will want to know of
the Little Golden Books prepared under the super-
vision of Dr. Mary Reed of Teachers College,
Columbia University. Each book of the series is
illustrated, some of the pictures being in colors.
A particularly delightful member of the series is
Mother Goose containing over forty of the best
loved old favorites. 

The price of each book is 25 cents. They are
published by Simon and Schuster, New York City.

Vanderbilt Estate and Museum Left to Public
———A forty-two acre estate at Centerport, Long
Island, including the family home and private
marine museum of William K. Vanderbilt, former
president of the New York Central Railroad, will
eventually. become a public park and museum, ac-
cording to Mr. Vanderbilt’s will. A $2,000,000
trust fund for the maintenance of the park and
museum was established in the will which stated
that upon the death of Mrs. Vanderbilt the Cen-

RECREATION

* FROM “WILSON”

Tennis Ball Headquarters

Conforms to all
U. S. L. T. A .

specincations

Performs
like the best

pro-war balls

 

“CHAMPIONSHIP” TENNIS BALL

0F SYNTHETIC RUBBER

0 We bring you the best tennis news since the J aps cut off our rubber supply.
This new Wilson “Championship” is made with the new-type of Synthetic
Rubber— man-made rubber— a product of never-failing American ingenuity.

And this new Synthetic Rubber makes some ball. We’ve put it through the
toughest laboratory tests. It has also been put through the “star” test by such
great tennis stars as Budge, Bobby Riggs, Alice Marble, Mary Hardwick, and
others. And results show that its performance equals the best pre-war natural
rubber balls. Meets all U. S. LT. A. requirements.

Try this new Wilson Championship Ball of the new-type SYNTHETIC
RUBBER, at your first opportunity. See how you rate it. Dealers are now being
supplied. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York and other leading cities.

TUNE IN :
Players mentioned . ARCH WARD'S SPORTS PREVIEW
. . . EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT
are 1‘8“!!an on Wilsous Over Mutual Network
Admsor? Stall See local newspaper for time
and station
TENNIS EQUIPMENT spousonsoaywnsou

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT
MARCH 1944 691

692  INDUSTRIAL RECREATION

 

ACTUAL PHOTO OF .TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS IN USE AT GRAND CENTRAL PALACE.
NEW YORK CITY. THE LARGEST INDUCTION CENTER IN THE WORLD!

Two-Way Bowling Alleys are now in use all over the United

States and on many war fronts. by the Army. Navy. Marines.
Merchant Marine. Coast Guard. WACS. U.S.O. Clubs. and "Y's."

MAIL COUPON TODAY
FOR COMPLETE INFORMATION

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION -

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0 NEW YORK. N. Y. o

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

terport estate and museum were to be maintained
in perpetuity as “a park and museum for the use,
education and enjoyment of the general public,
subject to reasonable regulations and restrictions.”

National Boys and Girls Week—~The twenty—
fourth annual observance of National Boys and
Girls Week will be held throughout the country
from April 29 to May 6 inclusive. This year the
observance will carry out the theme, “Youth Power
for Days Ahead.” Boys and Girls Week affords
an excellent opportunity for the presentation of a
program which will focus the attention of the
community on its boys and girls. Helpful sugges-
tions for carrying out the program may be obtained
free of charge from the National Boys and Girls
Week Committee, 35 E. Wacker Drive, Chicago 1,
Illinois.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
ll4 East 32nd Street, New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

 

 

 

Industrial Recreation
(Continued from page 683)

tee, or by an employee association, club, employee ser-
vice or activity division. If an association of employees
is formed, it should be incorporated as a nonpecuniary
association under the laws of the state.

PLAN II
Chairman Plan oF Organization

\Vhere there are not enough employees in a depart—
ment or plant to promote a departmental representative
plan of organization, the chairman plan of organization
is generally used. Under this plan there is a chairman in
charge of each activity; (For example, chairman of the
bowling league, choral group, etc.) The chairman, with
the recreation man or personnel director or plant superin-
tendent, forms the plant council or executive committee
and administers the plan, which operates in the same way
as Plan I, except that the committee chairman replaces
the departmental representative and performs his functions.

Financing. The methods of financing may be the same
as those of the departmental plan.

RECREATION

IN THE LAST WAR 693

In the Last War

CLIPPING from the S t. Paul Pioneer Press tells
A of the activities of Miss Carolina Friend Fair-
child, formerly a teacher in the public schools, in
combating juvenile delinquency during the last
war through the promotion of home play.

The Thursday Club of St. Paul, through the
Civic Committee of which Miss Fairchild was
chairman, developed a plan for the circulation of
parlor games through the library. The idea of a
circulating library came to her when the city
passed a curfew law which she realized would
force many of the pupils in her school to stay in
homes with nothing to offer them in the way of
recreation;

Miss Fairchild and her four associates on the
committee purchased games at reduced rates and
packaged them in envelope-shaped bags made from
denim and fastened with snaps. The games in-
cluded dominoes, checkers, ring toss, such card
games as old maid and authors, educational games,
and many others. They were loaned every Satur-
day from the juvenile room of the library. After
three months the juvenile room became so over-
crowded it was necessary to discontinue the pro-
gram to the great regret of those who had been
benefiting by it.

Might this not be an opportune time, Miss Fair-
child suggests, to revive the old plan and to do
everything possible to promote home play.

 

PLAN III
‘ Employee's Club

The plant, or each department, may form its own rec-
reation club. Each club elects its officers, decides its own
activities and dues. Each clulb president becomes a mem—
ber of the Executive Council for the plant. In addition
to its oflicers, each club has three committees—athletic,
social and outings—which are responsible for the activi-
ties of the club. '

All money collected from or for any club activity is
turned over to treasurer of the executive committee, is
deposited in the name of the club and expended only for
the activities of that club. No check can be issued with-
out two signatures, usually the club president, and the
recreation director, personnel director, or other author-
ized plant official.

Building Schools for Community Use
( C ontinucd from page 660) .
ous night when used by community groups.
It is extremely important for school personnel to
realize that school buildings are community build-
ings, paid for by the public. They should encour—

MARCH 1944

 

i For Playground and
l

Recreational Departments

v ". ..

 Complete Line of
372’ 1" Equipment for all Sports

JOHN AND FINDLAY STS., CINCINNATI, OHIO

age every possible appr0priate use of the buildings
under reasonable controls, knowing that the more

.the community uses school buildings, and the

keener its appreciation of them as community
assets, the greater will be the good will created
for the school system itself, and the more favorable

will be the community’s attitude toward school
taxes and expeditures.

The attitude of adults and youth out of school
toward the school building must be changed if it is
to make its fullest contribution to the community.
This can be done only as conditions are faced
realistically. For example, provision can well be
made, without damage to school property or vio-
lation of tire regulations, to permit smoking by
certain groups in at least one room. The sugges-
tion previously made that one or two rooms be
reserved exclusively for community use would
make this possible.

Unless the practice of education regarding the
use of school facilities changes materially, it will
still be necessary for the community to construct
its own special community recreation buildings no
matter how perfect architecturally school buildings
are for community recreation use.

694 WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE WEST COAST?

77X: {71"va MATS-PADS
_ - ‘ \; BOXING RINGS

.; 'x.’
r. 
'  ’.
V I y, rumme BAGS, PAD covers, use nu.

‘ uses AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT...

designed by experts. node by experienced workmen from
quality materials and odd direct to schools, mp1, etc.

Independent, truly wholesale.

‘5' NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT COMPANY
us surmount: . roan nu uc. ms.

p A/ew [dialog

What's Happening on the West Coast?

(Continued from page 676)

and the committee in charge always carefully
build the entire party around the customs, food,
dances, and songs of that country.

Thus does USO try to interpret the old com-
munity to the new and vice versa. Newcomers
have been asked to serve on committees and on
special projects with old-timers. In one town an
advisory committee representing various musical
groups was formed in order to make the music
resources of the community available to all war
workers and all servicemen and women. The re-
sult of this effort was a series of band concerts in
the Square, concerts at a local hall, and the sup-
plying of music and musicians to the Army,
churches, and other centers.-'

    
  
 

a!

. . . A Manual for Leaders

This new booklet—complete with charts,
diagrams, and program outlines—will
help both church leaders and community
groups to carry out a successful, all-
round program of activities.

Section headings include flfly Church
Recreation, Leadership ' and Training,-
Recreation Programs for Churches, and

Wider Use of Church Buildings for
Recreation—plus a selected bibliography. ~

Let Recreation and the Church serve both

you and your community program.
Order a copy today.

Price 25 cents

National Recreation Association

3l5 Fourth Avenue New York to. N. Y.

 

    
   
 

The slogan, “Welcome, War Workers,” of the
Wilmington, California, club, launched a city-wide
celebration when the welcome mat was dusted off
for thousands of newcomers. The celebration gave
residents of the community a chance to meet war
workers and soldiers who had recently come to
town. It also served to introduce the USO indus-
trial program to the community. Splendid working
committees representing every local organization
and enterprise took part in planning the program.
Special sales were held in all local stores. Attrac-
tive posters and displays called attention to the
two—day program to follow. Festivities began Sat-
urday morning with three movies. There was a
bond sales rally at the Victory House, erected on
the most prominent corner in town. Victor Mature
lent Hollywood~ glamor as master of ceremonies.
In the afternoon the younger children had singing,
a story hour, and games. Teen age girls took part
in a field day and teen age boys enjoyed swim-
ming and games. Saturday closed with a military
ball at the Women’s Club and a street dance in the
Federal Housing Village. Every church in town
held open house on Sunday. Transportation was
arranged to take those without cars to church ser-
vices. The Housing Village was “at home” to all
Wilmington residents, new and old, during the
afternoon. Ball games were held at the Village
between the I 37th Infantry team and the War

'Workers’ team from the shipbuilding yards. Com-

munity singing and a civilian defense movie ended
the festive week end.

No \Vilmington war worker could really have
the blues about his community standing after this
rainbow week end!

A New Service by Older Girls

(Continued from page 678)

The Senior Girl Scout leaders are cautioned to
prepare the girls for seeing sick and injured peo-
ple and for the general atmosphere of hospitals.

By giving this service, the girls, with the co-
operative supervision of occupational therapists,
will be able to release older volunteers for much
needed work in government hospitals with the
returned servicemen. It is even possible that
many professional workers will be made available
for this steadily increasing work. The ranks of
professional workers also will' eventually be in-
creased as Girl Scouts, given an introduction to
such satisfying and productive work, will un-
doubtedly choose occupational therapy as careers
and be guided into training.

RECREATION

ARTHUR E. BESTOR 695

Arthur E. Bestor

N FEBRUARY 3, 194.4, in the death of Dr.
Arthur E. Bestor the national recreation
movement lost one of its devoted and able friends.
Dr. Bestor had been president of Chautauqua Insti-
tution for the last twenty-nine years. He had been
an active leader in the field of adult education and
a trustee of Town Hall. He had been ever ready
to give his support to all movements for the wiser
use of the free time of the American people.

Working with the Girl Scouts on this project
are the American Association of Boys’ Clubs who,
in their well-equipped workshops throughout the
country, are prepared to build for the patients
equipment such as trays and small looms. The
Junior Leagues of America will assist. They have
long been interested in occupational therapy and
have been instrumental in establishing a number
of curative worksh0ps and occupational therapy
departments in hospitals.

Museums have also offered their help. An art
advisory committee for the Girl Scouts is very
active and provides outlets for training and super-
vision. On this committee, of which Mrs. Giles
Whiting, a member of the National Board of the
Girl Scouts, is chairman, are such key people in
the art world as Mr. Hardinge Scholle, Director,
Museum of the City of New York; Mr. Walter
Siple, Director, Cincinnati Art Museum; Mrs.

Julian Force, Director, Whitney Museum of
American Art; and others.

_ The Pennsylvania Dutch Canteen

( Continued from page 656)
Pennsylvania Dutch food that is a canteen specialty l

A juke box, victrola, records and facilities for
orchestras make the canteen an ideal place for
dancing. Shower and shaving facilities also are
available. I

There is a long yard between the main'build-
ing and the old gymnasium, and in summer this is
used for outdoor games, including badminton,
archery, horseshoes, shufHeboard, and even out-
door dancing. Gay umbrellas, tables and chairs
lend added atmosphere.

To sum it up, the York County Citizens Com—
mittee of United Service Organizations feels that
it has done a great deal with what it had. What
is even more important, servicemen from all over

the country agree that this Pennylsvania Dutch
canteen is “something to write home about.”

MARCH 1944

HILLERICH 6|. BRADSBY CO.
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

 

A Time to Laugh!
(Continued from page 659)

Ordinary refreshments may be served on dishes
not generallyused for that particular purpose. Use
bowls or soup dishes instead of cups and saucers,
vegetable dishes and cups where plates or platters
should be used. For a “floral” centerpiece try one
composed of potato and radish roses nestled amid
parsley and celery—top foliage. The napkins should
be folded in the form of fool’s caps, and jester’s
sticks may be sticks of red and white peppermint

. candy (if they are available) tied with strips of

red baby ribbon to which tiny bells are attached.

To harmonize with the military theme of the oc-
casion, the refreshments might include raspberry
gelatine with star-pointed cookies. Platters of sub-
stantial, healthy-looking sandwiches will appeal
particularly to the men folk. Huge bowls marked
“Army beans” will turn out to be either salted
peanuts or small chocolate—covered candies. Coffee,
tea, or milk will take care of the beverage situation.

And as everyone is leaving, hand each person a
few carrot strips— your military guests will know
that they’re for night blindness—to be munched on

the way home from an evening of much fun and
featitity-

696

'5 VOCATIONAL
GUIDANCE

a part of your work?

Here is just the material you need—material
to put in the hands of the young people under
your direction.

SUCCESS VOCATIONAL INFORMATION
MONOGRAPHS are written in language the teen-age
boy and girl can understand. They deal with prob-
lems these young people are facing; they answer the
questions young America asks.

Each MONOGRAPH deals with a specific trade or
vocation from farming to photography.

Excellent for use in pre-induction training, these
MONOG RAPHS give direction to the studies of young
men about to enter the armed forces—how they can
best serve their country—how to prepare to resume
civilian life at the end of the war.

Girls will also be interested in the requirements,
opportunities, and achievements in such professions
as nursing, secretarial work, home economics in
industry, and so on.

A PARTIAL LIST OF TITLES
(IMPORTANT: Order by Number)

. Mechanical Drafting 36. Photography
. Pattern Malling 37. Medicine
. Machine Shop 38. Dentistry
Mechanics 39. Medical Technology
. Electrical Arc Welding 40. Nursing
9. Electrical Installation 42. Chemistry in Industry
20. Bookkeeping 44. Home Economics in

2|. Accounting Industry

22. Office Machine 47. Civil Service
Operation 48. Foreign Service

23. Secretarial Work 5|. General Farming
24. Aviation 57. Social Work

26. Diesel Engineering 60. Law
29. Radio and Television

Send for a complete list of titles.

These helpful books may be purchased
singly or in quantity. At the remarkably low
price of 30¢ each (in quantities of 10 or more,
any assortment) or 32¢ each (in quantities of
less than 10) , no vocational director can afford
not to give this concise, practical information
to his group.

Send orders and requests to

MORGAN-DILLON 8: CO.

46l6 North Clark Street
Chicago 40. Illinois

 

ACTION BALL

Action Ball

T COMBINES the best features of football, soccer,

basketball, rugby, and a few other pastimes——
that’s the description of Action Ball, a new game
recently introduced into the sports program of the
264th Infantry at Camp Robinson, Arkansas, by
Lt. George Mayer and Pfc. I. S. “Doc” Cherof'f,
former New York City Welfare Department ath-
letic director. '

As explained in the 264th Bullet, Camp Robin-
son publication, Action Ball requires a playground
basketball (heavily seamed), two teams of equal
number of players lined up in the middle of a field
marked with boundaries, and end and side lines.

To start the game, two opposing participants
stand in the center of the field (a marked circle of
five feet diameter). The referee throws up the ball
and the players jump to tap the ball to one of their
teammates. The player who gets the ball can run,
pass, kick, slap or punch the ball. A player carry-
ing the ball across the Opponent’s goal line scores
one goal.

A whistle is blown to stop play when there is a
stalemate, i.e., a player carrying the ball is stopped
in his tracks as he cannot do anything (run, pass,
kick, etc.) but hold the ball. The two opposing
players who held the ball then jump up to tap the
ball tossed up by the referee to resume play.

Play finesse would include the elements of the
technique of basketball, viz., short, long, fiat, bounce
and hook pass; zone and man to man defense;
dribble; “give and go,” to mention but a few. In
soccer you find dribbling, trapping by foot, knee
and chest; heading. Football skills include passing,
blocking (offense players cannot use hands), lat-
eral passing, feinting, bucking, spinners, reverse,
fake kicking.

Time limit comprises four fifteen-minute quar-
ters. Officials are referee, umpire, two linesmen—
one to each side line and a timekeeper. Penalties:
unnecessary roughing, punching, jostling, tripping
by offensive team will result in loss of ball; by
defensive team penalty is half of the distance be-
tween the spot where the foul was committed and
its own goal line; loss of ball\ when the offensive
used a wedge.

Travis Oliver in his column, “Every Now ’11
Then,” for the Little Rock Arkansas Democrat
recently commented about Action Ball: “Who
knows, maybe the game will catch on and become
national in scepe. After all, Dr. James N aismith
invented basketball right out of his head without

RECREATION

MARK A. McCLOSKEY HEADS" COMMUNITY WAR SERVICES 697

Mark A. McCloskey Heads

Community War Services

ARK A. MCCLOSKEY has been appointedssuc-
M cessor to Charles P. Taft as Director of the
Ofiice of Community War Services, Federal Se—
curity Agency. Mr. McCloskey had been serving
as Director of Recreation of the Office of Commu—
nity War Services. He is still on leave of absence
from New York City, where he had been serving
as Director of Recreational and Community Ac-
tivities under the New York Board of Education.

Sherwood Gates has succeeded Mr. McCloskey
as Director of Recreation of the Office of Com-
munity War Services.

 

anything to go on. Such games as golf and polo
slowly evolved from games of the past but basket—
ball had no antecedents.”

Society of .Recreation Workers
of America
(Continued from page 672)
ment, Lakeland, Florida; Tam Deering, Di-
rector of Recreation, Public Recreation Com—
mission, Cincinnati, Ohio; Corinne Fonde,
Assistant Director, Parks and Recreation
Department, Houston, Texas ; Duane George,
Long Beach, California; Lieut. Comdr. F. S.
Matthewson, District Welfare and Recrea-
tion Officer, Ninth Naval District, Great
Lakes, Illinois; Walter Roy, Liaison Officer,
Office of Civilian Defense, Chicago Metro-
politan Area, Chicago, Illinois; W. Duncan
Russell, Executive Director, USO, Greater
Boston Soldiers and Sailors Committee, Inc.,
Boston, Massachusetts; Alfred H. Wyman,
Executive Director, Parks and Playground

Association of St. Louis, Missouri.
' /

12. Publications

Chairman: R. Wayne Gill, Superintendent
of “Public Recreation, Playground and Rec—
reation Board, Decatur, Illinois; Charles
Brightbill, Recreation Division, Federal Se-
curity Agency, Washington, D. C.; Corinne
Fonde, Assistant Director, Parks and Rec-
reation Department, Houston, Texas ; Walter
L. Scott, Director, Municipal and School
Recreation, Long Beach Recreation Com-
mission, Long Beach, California; W. C.
Sutherland, National Recreation Associa-
tion, New York, New York.

MARCH 1944

' Paint, Preserve and Beautify with

RAMIJC

America's No. I
Swimming Pool Enamel

Imparts a tile-like finish to concrete.

Used in numerous pools of Army, Navy,
Country Clubs, Municipalities, Amuse-
ment Parks and Private Estates.

Address Inquiries to

INERTOL COMPANY. Inc.

Main Office and Factory
470 Frelinghuysen AvenueI Newark 5, N. J.

Western Branch
64 South Park. San Francisco 7. Calif.

 

I 3. Special Membership Study Committee
Chairman: Robert L. Horney, Director of
Recreation, Board of Park Commissioners,
Davenport, Iowa; R.  Caulk, Recreation
and Group Work Secretary, Council of
Social Agencies, Columbus, Ohio; Jackson
J. Perry, Field Recreation Representative,
Federal Security Agency, Syracuse, New
York ; George Syme,Jr., Regional Recreation
Representative, Federal Security Agency,
Atlanta, Georgia; Homer Wadsworth, U. 5.
Navy.

I4. Training Committee

Chairman: Raymond A. Hoyer, Field Rec-
reation Representative, Federal Security
Agency, Indianapolis, Indiana; R. Walter
Cammack, Field Recreation Representative,
Federal Security Agency, Syracuse, New
York; Ralph D. Copenhaver, Assistant Ex-
tension Specialist Community Organization,
Agricultural College, Lincoln, Nebraska;
James E. Rogers, National Recreation As-
sociation, New York, New York; Edwina
Wood, Superintendent, Department of Rec-
reation, Columbus, Georgia.

698 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Gardening—Modern Three-Faced
Janus

(Continued from page 651)

grading of his garden work. Upon completion of
planting, the boy or girl received his button.

One of the large Chicago newspapers allotted
each week twenty—five pairs of passes to a down-
town motion picture theater, to be used as prizes,
I with a $25 War Bond as first award. In plan, we
did not want to put gardening on a competitive
basis. These prizes had to be awarded somewhat
arbitrarily, but in one of the larger projects twenty-
iive of the best gardeners were awarded passes

each week.

There were the usual failures. Some children
lost heart and neglected their plots. In other cases,
thinning was not properly done and crops suffered
in consequence. The general average, however,
was so high that visitors to a seed trade conven-
tion held in the city in July expressed incredulous
amazement that such results could have been
secured by so large an army of young and inex-
perienced gardeners in their first year of garden-
ing experience.

Future Plans

Results were generally so encouraging that we
consider the experiment a distinct success. It gave
us a good start in a new extension of our summer
recreation program. Next season we will doubt-
less confront problems differing from those we
faced last year, but we have a fund of experience
to draw on. Every indication points to a much
more widespread interest in Victory Gardening
for 1944. We feel reasonably confident we will
succeed as well as we did last year. We hope for
even better success. This much we know, beyond
any doubt whatsoever: we shall be bringing thou-
sands of young people back to a contact with the
soil. Whatever produce they grow will minister
to a healthier way of life. We have proved that a
new interest can be added to the curriculum of
summer play activities for young children. Thou-
sands of children will be made more conscious of
the growing vegetation in the natural world about
them. This, we think, provides some measure of
insurance that the future Chicago will continue to

be'worthy of the motto on the seal of our Park
District, “The Garden in the City.”

. Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Cerrent Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Camping, January 1944

An Approach to Nature Lore in Camp, Lydia King
Frehse
Rural Youth G0 Camping

The Journal of Health and Physical Education,
January 1944

Obstacle Course Construction and Operation, William
Neufeld

Speedball—An Adaptable Game, Anna Espenschade
and Anna Schieffer

Scholastic Coach, January 1944 /

Designs for the Gym, C. L. Wooldridge

Functional Game Areas, Caswell M. Miles

Outdoor Sports Under the Lights, R. J. Swackhamer
Post—\Var Locker and Shower Facilities, I. O.

Friswold

PAM PH LETS

Annotated Bibliography on Camping, Barbara Ellen Joy
American Camping Association, 343 South Dear-
born Street, Chicago, Illinois

Community Planning for Younger Citizens

New England Town Planning Association, 126 New-
bury Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Price 25 cents

Essential Facts About the Army Specialized Training
Program

Army Specialized Training Division, Army Service
Forces, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C.

Fifty Questions and Answers on Army Specialized Train-
ing Program

Army Specialized Training Division, Army Service
Forces, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C.

From the Ground Up

New England Regional Planning Commission, 2100
Federal Building, Boston, Massachusetts

Introduction to Leadership, a Manual for New Leaders
of Boys' Clubs in the Y.M.C.A., George B. Corwin and
Ruth Layton

Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York
17, N. Y.

The Juvenile Delinquency Problem in San Diego, Cali-
fornia. Report of a survey

National Probation Association, 1790 Broadway, New
York 19, N. Y.

Swimming and Water Safety

New York State War Council, Office of Physical
Fitness, Albany, New York

What Makes a Good Leader Good? A yardstick for
leaders

Published by The Girls’ Friendly Society, 386 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16, N. Y.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Pied Piper Broadcasts 

By Sylvia Thorne and Marion Norris Gleason. The H.
W. Wilson Company, New York. $2.25.

“T HIS Is THE PIE!) PIPER calling all children” was the
introduction to a series of radio programs broadcast
from Rochester, New York, when the Pied Piper Play-
ers went on the air to provide a juvenile radio audience
with entertainment on their own level of experience.»The
scripts have been arranged for the {benefit of enterprising
young producers who will find in the volume such old
favorites as Rip Van Winkle, Dick Whittington, Ali
Baba and the Forty Thieves, and Aladdin and the WOn-
derful Lamp.

The Arts in the Classroom

By Natalie Robinson Cole. Photographs by C. K. Eaton.
' The John Day Company, New York. $2.50.

HE MATERIAL IN THIS BOOK was contributed by a group
of nine-, ten-, and eleven-year-old children in the
fourth grade and first half of the fifth in a Los Angeles
school. Guided by Mrs. Cole, these children were helped
to accomplishments in painting, clay work, block printing,
dancing, and writing which are unquestionably remark-

able. Mrs. Cole’s story of how she went about setting the__

children free to work things out according to their own
inner desires makes fascinating reading.

Descriptions of English and American.

Country Dances: Music and Descrip-

tion of European Games and Dances

By Neva L. Boyd. Obtainable from author at 1919 West
Cullerton Street, Chicago. $.50.

RECREATION WORKERS will find this book helpful. It
not only contains directions for a number of dances
and games but also offers general instructions for coun-
try dances, including methods of progression, casting,
figures, steps, and style. The tunes are suggested for
. square dances and set running, and there is a bibliography.

Fighting Fitness. A Premilitary
Training Guide

By C. Ward Crampton, M.D. Whittlesey House, Mc-

Graw-Hill Book Company, Inc., New York. $2.00.
DR. CRAMPTON gives us a book written from the view-
point of an athlete, a coach, a physician, and a
teacher. It is designed as a personal guide to premilitary
fitness training and contains tests and methods of train-
ing used in the Army and Navy, with special reference
to aviation. The book discusses athletic sports and games,
exercises, Commando or Ranger methods, individual com-
bat events, military swimming and obstacles races, all in-

terpreted through military experience and aimed toward
military objectives.

MARCH 1944

Anthems of the United Nations

Edward B. Marks Music Corporation, R.C.A. Building,
New York. $.50.

HERE IS A COLLECTION of anthems, official or otherwise,

of the United Nations. They are the songs our
Allies are singing at the front and at home. The settings
of the songs in this album may be utilized for many
types of performances, and they may be used by choral

. groups, soloists, and even for the piano alone.

Woodcraft

By William H. Johnson, Ph.D. and Louis V. Newkirk,
Ph.D. The King Company, Selling Agents, 4618 North
Ravenswood Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. $1.60.

OODCRAFT FOR THE BEGINNING CRAFTSMAN is the sub-
ject of this book. The projects described, which vary
from door stops to carved plaques, require only inexpen-
sive hand tools. The material is arranged under four
main headings: The Tools You Use; The Materials You
Use;.~The Things You Make; and A Home workshop. -

Theatre Arts

Prepared by Dr. T. Earl Pardoe and the Drama Com-

mittee of the M.I.A. General Boards. General Boards
of the Mutual Improvement Associations, Church of

Jesus Christ of Latter.-day Saints, Salt Lake City,
Utah. $.25.

"ABRIEF HANDBOOK for the Use of Drama Directors,

Special Interest Groups and All Who Are Curious
About That Alluring World Behind the Footlights” is
the subtitle of this practical booklet of more than a
hundred pages. The many problems of play production
such as choice of plays, make-up, scenery, lighting, and

sound are discussed, and there is a glossary of theatrical
terms.

Basketball Officiating

By Dave Tobey. Barnes Dollar Sports Library. A. S.
Barnes and Company, Inc., New York. $1.00.

AGREAT DEAL HAs BEEN WRITTEN about basketball, most
of which is concerned with the rules and techniques.
of the game. This book is devoted to the subject Of
officiating and describes the duties and problems of the
single-official and the double-official system, as well as
officiating on nonregulation courts. The handling of vari-
ous game situations is analyzed, and suggestions are
given as to what the official should and should not do.

The Young Craftsman
Popular Mechanics Press, 200 East Ontario Street, Chi-
cago. $1.00.

OVER 450 PROJECTS, from gadgets and useful things for

the home to boat models of the simple type, are
described in this lbook reprinted from past issues of
Popular Mechanics Magazine, What-to-Make, and other
publications. No special skills are required in making the
articles described.

699

700 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

The Society Kit.

Volume I. Edited 'by Margaret Gibson Hummel. The
Westminster Press, Philadelphia. $2.50.

A year’s program for a young people’s society in a
church is outlined in this volume arranged in four sec-
tions. Section A contains general plans and ideas for a
successful young people's society, including suggestions
for planning the recreation program. Section B consists
of fifty-four topics written by outstanding religious lead-
ers which offer discussion material. These topics are
incorporated in sheets which can be torn out. Section C
contains sixteen worship services and Section D, party

programs.

Paul Bunyan’s Quiz.

American Forest Products Industries, Inc., 1319
Eighteenth Street, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

The questions and answers in this booklet—and there
are 225 of them—will help you understand one of our
most intricate forms of agriculture—the growing, har-
vesting, and processing of our largest plants—the trees.

The American Forest Products Industries, Inc., has
also published a number of other interesting pamphlets
which may be secured on request, including American
Forests, Trees for Tomorrow, and New Magic in Wood.
Children reading these books will learn in an interesting
way lessons in conservation.

Needlecraft.

By William H. Johnson, Ph.D. and Louis V. New-
kirk, Ph.D. The King Company, Selling Agents,
4618 North Ravenswood-Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.
$1.60.

The elementary treatment of needlecraft suitable for
school craft clubs, parks, summer camps, and the home
workshop is discussed in this book. The projects described
are arranged in relative order of difficulty, with the
simpler ones first. Among the subjects presented, in ad-
dition to the articles described, are materials, tools, and

techniques.

Roy Rogers’ Album of Cowboy Songs.

Edward B. Marks Music Corporation, R.C.A. Build-
ing, New York. $.50.

Twenty-live old and new favorites of the prairie and
range have been assembled in this book, which contains
such pOpular songs as “Home on the Range,” “Oh Bury
Me Not on the Lone Prairie,” and “She’ll Be Comin’
Round the Mountain.”

Favorite Words for Tunes.

Community Recreation Service of Boston, Inc., 739
Boylston Street, Boston 16, Massachusetts. $2.00 per

100.

The words of 9 Christmas_carols, 5 hymns for special
occasions, 12 songs of America, 5 humorous songs, 15
songs of other lands, 2 opera excerpts, and 2 rounds have
been incorporated in this booklet. A list of accompani-
ments for the songs is included.

First—Aid Training.

By Morris Fishbein,‘ M.D. and Leslie W. Irwin,
Ph.D. Lyons and Carnahan, Chicago. $.80.

This book is designed primarily for secondary school
Students and includes not only Specific instructions but
also activities, practical problems, summaries, unit and
review tests, and other material designed to reinforce
what has been learned.

M.I.A. Dance Supplement 1943-44.

General Boards Mutual Improvement Associations,
Salt Lake City, Utah. $.15.

There are directions for a number of dances and many
suggestions here for all groups interested in dancing.

What About War Workers?

Philadelphia Council of Defense, 20 South Fifteenth
Street, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

The War Workers Recreation Committee of the Phila-
delphia Council of Defense has prepared this pamphlet
at the request of leaders in management and labor who
are interested in developing recreation programs. The
pamphlet offers suggestions on finding out what people
want to do, on getting them to participate, and on the
types of activities people like. The greater part of the
pamphlet is devoted to a listing of leisure-time activities
offered by Philadelphia agencies.

Popular Community Songs for All Occasions.

Edited and arranged by Harold Potter. Mills Music,
Inc., 1619 Broadway, New York. $.25.

Here is a collection of 83 old-time favorites with music.
Some of them are copyrighted songs which cannot be

found in other books.

Musical lnterludes in Boston.

By H. Earle Johnson. Columbia University Press,
Morningside Heights, New York. $4.00.

In this book Dr. Johnson gives a delightful picture of
culture in Boston at the end of the eighteenth and the
beginning of the nineteenth centuries, with particular
emphasis on the musical life in the city. Covering as it
does a period which has been overlooked by musical
historians but which was marked by the steady growth
of many cultural forces, the volume is a contribution to
the story of America’s musical heritage.

A Salvage Sewing Handbook.

By_ Grace German. The John C. Winston Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $.50.

This very practical 'book has --been compiled to make
the. organization of Salvage Sewing Rooms easy. The
articles pictured and described will open up a whole field
of useful hand products, the making of which will mean
real satisfaction for the successful salvager.

 

 

Oliicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President
JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third VicePresident
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board
SUSAN M. LEE, Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

.
DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, Moline, Ill.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, F itchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Su ar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New ork, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. Lee, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLi-zRv, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MiLLs, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
{1: C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICK M. WARDURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

