Culture or Kultur?

WE IN THE RECREATION MOVEMENT are concerned with building life. Of course it
"is recognized that life will be built by the people in the neighborhood themselves.
At the same time leadership is needed to free the people to build. The “better” are
likely to be run out by the bullies and the loud-mouthed unless a moderate degree of
leadership saves a place for the wise and theiconsiderate to be heard.

The cultural level of the entire program may depend upon the quality of the
leadership.

What shall be the spirit of the athletic sports? What songs shall be sung?
What music shall be heard? Will the folk music have a chance? What taste in the

‘crafts will be encouraged? How far will there be appreciation of nature—of birds and

trees and flowers, and clouds and all the beauty of the world? What books and what
world policies will be discussed? What neighborhood volunteer service will be
developed?

All this'kind of leadership in the neighborhood recreation center builds and
Of

course we all dislike the word culture but as yet we have developed no better. We

shapes a culture on a natural cooperative basis Without imposition from above.

would like to remove from the word all taint of self-consciousness, of superiority.
However, there is a common heritage of life itself which does grow up during the
time we are free to do what we want to do.

Free time in our villages and in our cities is going to be used by our people for
choruses, orchestras, handcrafts, drama groups, nature and science clubs as a way of
making and keeping life interesting, adventurous, challenging. If leadership for such
forms of recreation is not made available through city government recreation depart-
ments, a new municipal agency will be created for this purpose before very long. If
localities do not for themselves arrange this cultural recreation leadership there is

always the danger that an attempt will be made to put over a centralized uniform
plan that will have much less value.

Before the Second World War many in our country spoke with admiration of
the nearly 100 per cent coverage in youth sports organizations under the central
government in Germany and Italy and there was testimony that the youth themselves
in these countries liked it. Centralized recreation was an important factor in giving
military strength to Germany and Italy. Yet centralized recreation built a subjection
to centralized government that in the end was disastrous not only to the World but

337

to these countries, Germany and Italy, themselves. There must be no Hitlers, no
Mussolinis, to tell our neighborhoods in the United States the nature of the private

lives we are to live.

This culture that has roots, this heritage of life is so important, has such value,
that we must keep it from centralized outside interference by any federal government,

state government or private group.

Now in the United States the tide runs strongly toward centralized government.
With our arms we have valiantly resisted Mussolini and Hitler, yet we have uncon—
sciously been influenced more than we are probably willing to admit by the efficiency
from the point of View of power of their centralized government and we are in danger
of being conquered by the very ideas we have fought.

Centralization in the care of unemployment, in old age insurance pensions, in
caring for criminals, for the disadvantaged, centralization in preventing the spread of
disease, in building roads—-——all such centralization has only fractional danger as com-
pared with centralization in recreation, in culture, in building opportunities, for free
time living. Each neighborhood, each community, please God, is different from every I
other and let us hope that each will remain so. In the end something precious would.

be lost if a large degree of uniformity were to prevail. '

Yet make no mistake. For the nearly forty years that the National Recreation
Association has been giving a cooperative leadership in sharing experience between
neighborhoods and between cities there has always been a strong minority demanding
uniformity, thinking of differences as chaos and saying, “Tell us all just what we
are to do. We do not want you just to help us work out our program for our-

!’

selves. The National Recreation Association, however, has never been willing to

I
become a central control or to relieve any neighborhood from making ItS own dec1s1ons.

Two principles stand out: there is need of local cultural recreation leadership
and there is great loss if there be national control whether under private or federal.
government or other auspices. We want in America growth in living that is native
to the soil of each locality. America has no place for Kultur.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

OCTOBER I944

 

338 RECREATION

I The

Community
School

VS.

Community

Recreation

HE NATION’S CONCERN with the

‘ Tproblems of juvenile delinquency
has thrust upon school adminis-
trators and school boards throughout
the country a responsibility of major proportions.
Those charged with the custody and operation

 

Photo by Isadore Wasserman

of 227,000 school buildings of the nation are being By JOHN S, HERRON
asked this pertinent question: If juvenile delin- Superiniendenf of Schools
quency is largely the result of misdirected energy, NewarkI New Jersey

inadequate parental inHuence, and lack of right
direction and supervision of youth in wholesome
leisure activities, why then is not this investment
of $7, 500,000,000 in school plants
being more widely used to provide
the program recognized as a vital part
of the solution?

To phrase the question in other
ways: Why should school buildings
and playgrounds be locked up at 4:00
or 5 :00 P. M. when they might profit-
ably serve the community until 9:00
or II :00 P. M.? Does the school’s re-
sponsibility for youth end when the
afternoon session of school closes? Is
the afterschool recreation program of
a city the concern of the school au-
thorities or other agencies of the com-
munity? Is supervised recreation a
logical and integral part of the edu-
cational program of youth develop—
ment? If it is, who should conduct it
-——the school system, the municipality,
or an independent recreation c0m-
mission?

These and other questions of similar

 

OCTOBER 1944

339

 

340 THE COMMUNITY SCHOOL ‘03. COMMUNITY RECREATION

nature are being raised.
Community leaders, includ-
ing school administrators
and school boards, differ as
to the answers. Apparently
most community leaders, in-
cluding school boards, take
the position that recreation
is not the responsibility of
the educational system. This
conclusion is substantiated
by the fact that, in most cities
of the country, organized
recreation and playgrounds
are conducted by agencies
other than the school system.

5

Why Boards of Education Hesitate

The patent reason why boards of education do
not move to extend their authority and sphere of
influence further into the field of recreation is
largely one of finance. Extension of the commu—
nity recreation program within the schools signifies
increased budgets. Increased budgets mean the
raising of larger sums of money, all charged funda-
mentally to “education.” Assumption of the rec-
reation program means more employees, expan-
sion of supervision, and a '
twelve-month job to be
done. Why take on addi-
tional problems and head-
aches and increased financial
burdens when prevailing
arrangements satisfy? Re-
search by the National Rec-
reation Association indicates
that when the general finan-
cial situation tightens, rec—
reation budgets are more in
danger of drastic reduction
when recreation is adminis-
tered by the schools. New
York, Philadelphia, and
Cleveland are examples of
serious budget cuts in recent
years. However, in the face
of additional financial wor—
ries, many school superin-
tendents are individually
studying the problem in the
light of the question: Do
the schools function to the
fullest in providing the nec—

 

"lt school authorities control the capital
investment in school plants and have the
authority to utilize them for expanded com-
munity programsI why the hesitancy to turn
idle school buildings and playgrounds into
mediums of wider service to the community
and to youth in particular?"

This is the question asked by Dr. Herron
and discussed by him in this significant arti-
cleI which originally appeared in the Ameri-

can School Board Journal for May I944.

RECREATION wishes to express its apprecia-
tion to the Journal not only for permission
to reprint the articleI but also for the use
of the cuts used in connection with it.

More and more playgrounds are providing
opportunity for quiet forms of recreation

I 3 
‘ ‘i W
 ‘ a

essary recreation program
which community needs
demand?

Concept of the Com-
munity School

If the present-day evolv-
ing concept of the school as
a “community school” is the
correct one, if the school is
to be the center of commu-
nity and neighborhood in-
terest and service and pro-
mote the healthy develop—
ment of children, adoles—
cents, and adults alike, then
perhaps the older concept of educational respon—
sibility may' be due for critical evaluation and
modification. Certainly, a school plant which oper-
ates only during limited hours of daylight cannot
hope to be the answer. Most assuredly, the “educa-
tional” program of the community must be broad-
ened as to functions, the community itself must be
“educated” as to broader objectives, and the com—
munity must be ready to finance the area of service
to be extended, whether the board of education or
an independent commission controls the service.

Guidance and Recreation

Authorities in student
guidance without exception
have for years stressed “rec-
reational guidance” as of
equal importance with edu-
cational, vocational, and
health guidance. If this be
true, is it logical to deduce
that part of the responsi-
bility for community recre-
ation must be accepted by
school authorities, .and that
the recreation program must
be closely integrated with
the school, its facilities, its
program, and its objectives?
If educators and boards of
education are looked to for
aid, in large measure, in the
solution of juvenile delin-
quency, in peace times as
well as in war times, how
are they to wield this whole-
some influence when they

 

I‘. C ’

RECREATION

|
!
l
l

 

THE COMMUNITY SCHOOL 21:. COMMUNITY RECREATION 341

so often have lit-
tle or no voice in
the direction of
community rec-
reation? These
are questions
which each com-
munity, particu-
larly the cities of
the country, must
answer in the
light of prevail-
ing local condi-
tions. Logically,
the school au- __
thorities cannot
be ignored if ex-
tended use of
schools is to be-
come a reality.

Is There a Model Pattern for Recreation?

The schools seem each year to receive from the
community more and more problems to solve. At
present, it is to the schools largely that social and
welfare leaders are looking for aid to youth in
trouble. The preventive program, we are told, is
largely in our hands. The demand comes, there-
fore, to open up our school facilities more and
more to keep youth in a wholesome environment.
To what degree can and will school boards re-
spond? Will this challenge thrust on an increasing
number of school systems the job of taking over
the major part of community recreation? [And
from this thought the question is raised: Is there

a model pattern recommended for community
recreation?

To this query, the answer is “No.” The sea-.

soned position of the National Recreation Associa-
tion which speaks with impersonal authority from
years of continuing interest, study, and research
may be summed up as follows: “Because there are
so many variable factors in the different cities,
there is no single- organization plan or'pattern
which the Association would recommend. All
factors in a given city would need to be studied

and appraised before one of several organizations
could be recommended for that city.”* Milwau-

kee and Newark are two cities in which the major
public recreation responsibility is carried by the
board of education, and both are regarded as pos—

 

’ Fron official communication of National Recreation Association,
Lew York, under date of January's”, 1944.

OCTOBER 1944

 

When it's too hot for strenuous games. there's
the shady game corner with its many attractions

sessing strong features. In both cities, the pro-
grams are given substantial support, both civic and
financial. However, because success has followed
board-of—education sponsorship in these cities, it
does not signify that the same outcomes would be
achieved in other cities. In several large cities, the
board of education is one of two parties in a dual
administrative plan; their programs, however, are
largely limited to operation of playgrounds and,
indoor centers on school property.

In recent years, considerable interest in a move
toward unification of recreation administration has
been apparent in the search for greater efficiency,
as exemplified by Baltimore and Washington.

With reference to Newark and Essex County,
New Jersey, it may be stated that up to the present
time the records on juvenile delinquency have
been- most favorable as contrasted with national
records and the records of other large cities. Civic
and social leaders of Newark believe that the in-
tegrated school—recreation program under board of
education direction has had considerable bearing
on the relatively favorable showing of the city in
keeping its youthr out of trouble.

The Newark Recreation PrOgram

The following presents some of the most im-
portant aspects of the Newark recreation program
as conducted by the board of education:

342 THE COMMUNITY SCHOOL vs. COMMUNITY RECREATION

Newark has a population of approximately
429,000 people of many racial strains, typical of
most industrial cities of the nation. At present, the
board of education operates 70 school buildings,
ranging from schools of 6 teachers to large high
schools of 115 teachers or more. Thirty-three
school buildings, serving all areas of the city,
operate as recreation or community centers
throughout the twelve months of the year. Quali—
iications of recreation teachers are the same as for
all teachers—college training, with special prepara—
tion in recreation. The salary schedule range is
from $1,500 to $3,200 per annum. Four full-time
supervisors direct the program under the leader-
ship of the Director of Physical Education and
Recreation.

All thirty-three centers operate in school build-
ings from 3 :15 P. M. until 9 :00 P. M. Eleven com—
munity centers operate programs two evenings per
week until 11 :00 P. M. All centers are open on
Saturdays until 5:00 P. M. During the months of
July and August, thirteen additional schools and
playgrounds are opened as playground centers.
Full use of classrooms, shops, auditoriums, and
gymnasiums are available for the teachers of rec-
reation. An additional corps of approximately 120
teachers are assigned for the summer months.

In addition to school plants used in the recrea-
tion program, the board of education for the past
year has selected teachers for and supervised the

Red Cross sewing and knitting classes sponsored
by recreation departments have a strong appeal

 

recreation program of the Newark Housing Au-
thority, conducted in seven new housing projects.

To meet the exigencies of wartime, because of
the entrance of thousands of mothers into war
industries of the area, all playgrounds, recreation
centers, and community centers operated during
last summer on a staggered plan of teacher as-
signment, from 9:00 A. M. to 9:00 P. M. Twelve
centers operated school lunch programs during the
summer months when regular schools were closed.

In addition to the program conducted by the
board of education, citizens of Newark are served
by play facilities in three parks under the Essex
County Park Commission and by three baths and
two swimming pools operated by the Department
of Parks and Public Property of the city of Newark.

Evaluation of the Newark Program

The citizens of Newark have come to the con—
viction that the community recreation program as
operated for twenty-five years by the board of
education is the program which most efficiently
serves the needs of the city’s youth and the adults
as well. Prior to 1918, there existed a dual play-
ground system, Operated in part by the board of
education and in part by the Newark Recreation
Commission. This dual arrangement was not satis-
factory. Finally, the Newark City Commission
requested the board of education to assume full
responsibility. Subsequently, the playground pat-
tern was expanded and established on a twelve-
month basis. It has been operating since accord—
ing to the plan as previously presented.

It is not to be" assumed that perfection has been
reached. Prog-
ress is being
made each year
as adaptations
take place. The
“community
school” concept
of education has
been accepted by
the community.
The school prin-
cipal today has
the same respon-
Sibility for pro-
moting the recre-
ation program of
after school and

(Continued on
page 382)

RECREATION

 

Town, Gown, and Fun, Incorporated

F YOUR CITY thinks it
I has recreation prob-

lems—~—yes, and recre-
ation accomplishments—-
draw up a chair, and
listen to the tale of Law—
rence, Kansas.

Over a thousand cities
provide tax-supported recreation services. Law-
rence is not one of them. The Lawrence program of
city-wide recreation, offered regularly six weeks of
every summer for the last four years, and for addi-
tional events throughout the year, is supported by
voluntary contributions. It is achieved by a great
deal of inspired effort by a few key enthusiasts and
a lot of organized community volunteer help.

Lawrence is beautiful. If you’ve never been to
Kansas, banish preconceived notions of dust-bowl
landscapes and Wizard of Oz strawscapes. This
section of the country has trees, rolling hills, and
two rivers. Surrounding territory has known dust
storms and crop failures.

Lawrence is historic. This city of two colleges
(the University of Kansas, and Haskell Institute
of the famous Indian football team) gets its name
from Samuel Lawrence of Lawrence, Massachu-
setts. Many of its citizens are as New England as
baked beans on Saturday night. Beautiful tree-
lined residential avenues contrast with store fronts
that needpaint. The city’s principal hotel has
lived through abolition days. The original edifice
was fired three times by Quantrille and his raiders.
This was “Bloody Kansas” in the Civil \Var
period.

What is Lawrence like as a place to live?
Frankly, summers get a little torrid. The weather,
in fact, really inspired the first ripple of commu-
nity recreation in the city. Back in the early
thirties, the University of Kansas set up a special
department under Dr. F. C. “Phog” Allen, well-
known head of the Men’s Physical Education De-
partment. Its aim was to promote recreation ac—
tivities on the campus hill, cooled by evening
breezes from the Waukaroosa valley. The need
was to make life more enticing for families of
visiting summer school teachers likely to live in
small quarters in the city.

Faced with this tropical temperature, Lawrence
has only one swimming pool, commercially owned

C

OCTOBER 1944

By ALICE M. GILBERTSON

National Recreation Association

Private citizens.|oca|groups.schoo|s. and insufficient for the

and the University. too. com-
bined to give Lawrence. Kansas.
its city-wide recreation program

15,000 to 20,000 people
of the whole city. Small
boys do not have the “Y”
pool to fall back on be—
cause Lawrence has no
“Y.” Parks, with one ex-
ception, are few, hilly,
and small. Population of the city is 15,356. Park
space totals only 26.13 acres. This is far below the
national standard of one acre to each 100 people.

To get back to the early thirties : “Phog” Allen’s
recreation idea on the hill caught on. Jungle
gyms, swings, and slides were put up for the chil—
dren. Benches were set up for relaxing mothers.
Shuffleboard courts were laid out on campus side—
walks for dads who took time out from their
Ph.D. pursuits to relax. People from the town
were given special invitations to join the fun “on
the hill.” They came to look on in the square
dancing and remained to do-si-do. University
students from the Community Recreation courses
acted as leaders, got practical recreation experi-
ence. This town and gown cooperation is one of
the outstanding accomplishments of recreation in
Lawrence.

Where do Lawrence children in the city itself
play and have fun? Maud Ellsworth, Director of
Elementary School Art in Lawrence public schools,
often asked herself the same question. In 1933 she '
sold the Board of Education on the idea of pro-
viding the use of a single school and janitor seru
vice for a summer studio.

What she wanted to offer Lawrence boys and
girls as an experiment was a place where, just for
the fun of it, they could paint, sketch, model clay,
work with wood or leather with the help of a
trained teacher. Three teachers not on the school
staff gave their time two mornings a week. Maud
Ellsworth herself directed the work without pay.
“I wanted to see what would happen,” she says
today in relating the story of the summer details.

Art for play in the summertime—is that what
you’re asking? Here’s what happened. Elementary
school enrollment was 1,700. Between twenty-live
and fifty interested children were hoped for. When
185 actually registered, it was necessary to draw
up a schedule which allowed each child to attend
the studio only two days a week. Junior High

343

a.
- __ .r . __ .-
t ’ A; ¢}f¥.z« Mu" v.%. .\ swasm....y._il- '  7:}- .w- “in: 1-15 -«--’ -'-

Punch and Judy. fwo famous show ponies of Law-
rencel were enthusiastic volunteers in the pro]-
ec’r +o dramatize regis’rra’rion week at Jthe play-
grounds. Wifh a costumed driver' a registration
fabula’ror. and a gypsy storyteller and accordion
player, the ponies made Jthe rounds of +he play-
grounds where regis’rra’rion figures were entered
in a giant book with a huge three-foo’r pencil.

School children, who applied had to be turned away
because there were not enough teachers.

The second summer, Maud Ellsworth offered
her own time to organizing and directing the
studio, on the condition that interested people in
town give her sufficient money to pay instructors
a small salary and to buy materials for all children
who couldn’t buy their own. Before June 4th
clubs and individuals had raised $275. Half the
amount came from the P.T.A. organizations. Let-
ters, speeches, and neWSpaper publicity raised the
rest. This second year, the school was Open five
days and employed six paid teachers, all with line
art backgrounds. Attendance swelled to 240. Four
senior university students taught for practice
teaching credit. One high school art student as-
sisted “for fun.”

The recreational touch was added in a number
of ways: there was group singing, with music from
a victrola. Poetry reading was often included.
Groups of children went out every day to paint
and draw. Young children were always accom-

     

p a n i e d b y a
teacher. Older
ones went out
alone.

One youth en-
thusiast is credit-
ed with really
beginning orgah-
ized community
recreation in
Lawrence. As
the wife of a
County Rural
 - Agricultural
  .- ' Agent, Mrs. Deal
' ' I Six had come to
know and love
rural people—
youth and adults.
\Vith considera-

ing which in—
cluded the Mos-
cow Art Theater in New York and well-known
theater groups in California, she started dramatics
throughout the county. For three years in succes-
sion, her groups won the Senator Capper Award
for the best rural dramatics.

When the Deal Six family moved to Lawrence,
Mrs. Six became Creative Arts Chairman in the
American Association of University Women. In
spite of the fact that a previous children’s theater
had not been a financial success, she enthusiasti-
cally proceded to organize another junior drama
group. First production was “Snow White,”
which Mrs. Six had written for her own small son.
First night was marked by a blizzard. Mrs. Six
had stubbornly insisted on ten and fifteen cent
admission prices; no reserved seats. But the play
was a financial success. After all expenses were
paid, including the amount which Mrs. Six had
risked out of her own pocket, there was a tidy
little sum of $50. With that first $50, Mrs. Six
made a resolution. All play receipts would go
back to the children. In the spring of 1940, when
capital amounted to $600, she sought out the
superintendent of schools.

“In your opinion, what is the greatest need of
Lawrence children?” Mrs. Six asked Superin-
tendent Clifford Dean.

It was a lucky day for Lawrence children. To
this $64 question, the superintendent gave the
perfect answer —-— “The greatest need, in my

RECREATION

ble drama train-

 

l

TOWN, GOWN, AND FUN, INCORPORATED 345

“'

opinion,” Superintendent Dean informed her, 18
a program of organized recreation, particularly in
the summertime.”

And so the fun began. The Board of Recreation
made available the use of school playgrounds in
different neighborhoods. The program was plan-
ned by Joie L. Stapleton, young women’s Physi—
cal Education professor at the university. By the
time all arrangements had been made, there were
only five days left to secure equipment, beg and
bully friends, relatives and strangers into becom-
ing leaders. B,ut Joie Stapleton did it!

A doctor who in college days had been a golf
“pro,” volunteered to give instruction in golf.
Another man about town took on tennis enthusi-
asts. The university, through the cooperation of
“Phog” Allen, made the university golf course and
tennis courts available. The head of the university
riding stables not only gave reduced rates, but

furnished younger children transportation. The '

volunteer spirit became infectious. Mothers taught
girls sewing they liked: how to make popular
peasant skirts, halter tops, scarves. Before Red
Cross service was needed, other mothers taught
bridge.

After one summer the program had proven so
worthwhile that the following year the P.T.A.
Council joined the American Association of Uni-
versity Women as sponsors. A.A.U.W. funds still
came from the
source which
started the rec-

reation program:

the A. A. U. W.
Children’s Thea-
ter.

The theater
became a truly
community in-
terest. Talent
from the ehtire
city was drawn
upon in casting
and producing.
Two university
students wrote
the whole score
for the original
version of “Rip
Van Winkle.”
Play tryouts were
city-wide. “Cin-
derella” was an

OCTOBER 1944

unknown who had never been in school plays.
Real horses pulled her coach 011 the stage. They
were the well-known show ponies of a Lawrence
business man.

During the days before the presentation of “Cin-
derella” even the weather became dramatic. When
the temperature dropped to thirteen below zero,
just prior to the opening night, the only solution
was to house the ponies in the school where the
play was to be presented. The owner himself vol—
unteered to feed, sweep out, and care for the
horses during their school stay. When the cus—
todian grumbled at the idea of what the horses’
hooves might do to the stage floor, the clerk of the
Board of Education, to this day one of the most
tireless volunteer workers for recreation, invented
and made rubber shoes for all eight pony feet!
Trees for the real garden in “Alice in Wonder-
land” were made by the same genius who invented
and produced pony shoes.

Weaving. woodworking. slcetching. painting. and
puppet m‘aking are among the activities offered
at the summer studio started in I933 as an ex-
periment. and now a regular part of Lawrence's
summer program. Attendance at the puppet mak-
ing classes. directed by Margaret Bushong. aver-
ages ten boys and girls from ID to l4 or IE ‘
years of age. each of whom maltes a puppet dur-
ing the summer season. Each year a play is given.

 

346 TOWN, GOWN, AND FUN, INCORPORATED

Today Lawrence’s summer playground and rec-
reation program offers real variety. Maud Ells-
worth has willingly incorporated her summer
studio into the recreation program. Other activi-
ties offered include weaving as well as woodwork-
ing, sketching and painting for two age groups as
well as puppet-making.

The summer 1944 program included brand-new
activities: drama for teen-agers as well as younger
boys and girls; wider music activities. For high-
schoolers, unior and senior, there are dances every
Friday night at Lawrence’s community building.
A teen age canteen especially for high-schoolers
was nearly achieved, then proved inadvisable. But
teen activities, started originally from funds pro-
vided by the Business and Professional Women’s
Club with the P.T.A. Council, will go on. A sur—
vey of interests and leisure time available was
circulated just before school ended. High-school-
ers themselves are giving time to tabulate results.
When findings are obtained, special activities are
being planned by the popular young recreation
director and physical education teacher, whose
husband is in the service.

Even the administration of the Lawrence recre—
ation program is volunteer. It is in the hands of a
recreation council representing varied interests of
town, gown, and city at large who give time,
talent and effort of every variety.

Interested from the start, and one of the tire-
less workers on the Recreation Council is Mrs.
Frank T. Stockton, wife of the Dean of the Business
School at the University, mother of a Navy
V-IZ, and a sixteen-year-old high school gradu-
ate aiming for V-12. She is one of the very active
members of the American Association of Uni-
versity Women and Parent-Teacher Councils}

Chairman of the Recreation Council, Mrs. Stock-
ton conducts the business meetings, writes re-
ports, sends out briefs to members to save them
the time of attending sessions which do not need
their help, writes and sends out the majority of
letters to prospective individual donors, writes
follow-ups, makes personal calls, sends news to
the papers. On top of that, she does volunteer
work at one of the playgrounds, irons out any snags
in program or budget.

Right-hand “man” to Mrs. Stockton, and the
individual called on from every side to get work
done, is the Lawrence recreation program’s first
director, Joie L. Stapleton. Versatility is the name
for Joie. Her permanent recreation duty places
her in charge of personnel and equipment. Last

summer she acted as swimming instructor on the
program. For two years, she was chairman of the
Fun Festival which raised funds for the recreation
program.

Men, from the first, have been helpful volun-
teers for Lawrence recreation. For example, there’s
A. E. VVoestemeyer, Scout executive, newspaper
man, and civic worker generally, who also serves
on the Recreation Council. Not all his work is
recreational. When an S.O.S. goes out from the
Lawrence canning factory for volunteer workers
from the city, he often works on the night shift
after completing a full business day.

Another Recreation Council member, Lloyd
Houston, works indefatigably for the teen age ac-
tivities : is on hand every night as sponsor for their
dances, helping in innumerable quiet as well as
active ways.

But voluntary work and enthusiasm, as stated
previously, comes from all sides: town, gown,
mothers, dads, clubs, just pe0ple. All large-scale
playground activities can count on lemonade of the
best by the gallon! It comes from a Greek res-
taurant proprietor of the city. This same citizen
is a generous contributor to the fund which
finances the program.

Mothers, during the past summer, were re—
cruited by the Parent-Teacher Council to give
regular volunteer hours. They were “on handi’ at
the playground to help take care of the greatly
increased attendance of younger tots who turned
out for the playground programs. \Vives of ser-
vicemen, returned to Lawrence for the duration,
are contributing music and dramatic talent for
volunteer leadership.

In Lawrence, recreation is used as a means to
raise funds for recreation! For the past two years,
A.A.U.W. has raised its funds for the recreation
program by a Fun Festival. This is also pro—
duced by pooling all community talent and by
using all-out volunteer help. ‘

Ideas, as well as help, have proven lively and
interesting in deve10ping the program. The schools,
P.T.A. and library, working together, set up a
list of books based on children’s interest. Children
who read a minimum of six books, three of which
are listed as approved, receive a reading certificate
at the first unit P.T.A. meeting in the fall. Be—
cause the reading is recreational and not required,
the program has had results. Six hundred and
fifty registered for the reading program the first
summer; of these I65 received certificates. Seven

(Continucd on page 382)

RECREATION

 

 
  

Print .by Gedge Harmon

removed the rug in the social hall. Then a
great load of cornstalks, contributed by a local
farmer, was brought in; the floor was covered
with them, and they were tied into stacks and set
up about the room. Pumpkins, scraped and made
into jack-o’-lanterns, were set here and there. The
center electric light was covered with yellow crepe
paper. U
This Harvest Salmagundi was planned for
forty-eight guests. Twelve small tables or stalls
were arranged about the room and numbered.
Cards, previously sketched by an artistic member
of the society, were given out. At the top of each,
“Couple 1, Table I,” and so on, was written, part-
ners were found, and the fun began. A five minute
time limit was set for each progression. If, how-
ever, you wish to lengthen your evening, make the
time ten minutes.
The tables were arranged as follows:

Peanut Job
Puzzling Peter
Apple Antics
Raisin Rush

IN PREPARING for this party, the young pe0ple

Korn Kernel Contest
Peanut Pitch

Bean Bather

Apple Aggravation
Apple Duck Pumpkin—Pie Pictures
A Pare of Apples Seed Scramble

In cold print the twelve activities listed may not
look interesting. In reality, taken together, they
consist of an evening’s un—
interrupted pleasure.

Peanut Job. A large agate
dish containing several dozen
peanuts is placed in the cen-
ter of the table. Each player

‘ OCTOBER 1944

A young people's society was respon-
sible for arranging this party which
appeared in Thanksgiving Party Sug-
gestions, published by the Recreation
Division of the Chicago Park District.

6M?“ A Harvest Salmagundi

You're right! These games are old—but
perhaps you've never played them in iust
’this combination. They'll malte an appro-
priate party for the Thanksgiving seasonI
and if you've never attended an affair of
this kind you have no idea what fun it is!

is given a hat pin and a small agate pan in which
to drop all nuts secured. A bell rings, the play is
on. The couple that has. secured the greatest num-
ber of peanuts before the closing signal has its
card punched and progresses to

Puzzling Peter. Here the players find two large
envelopes in which are small pieces of cardboard.
Correctly put together, they form an amusing
picture of the famous Peter of nursery rhyme.
The couple whose puzzle is first put together
moves on to I

Apple Antics. This is simply an apple tied on a
string, the old time Halloween amusement. The
players’ hands are tied behind their backs. The
first two ewho succeed in biting the apple go on
to the

Raisin Rush. At this table there is one raisin,
tied on the center of a three foot long string, for
each couple. The object is to see which of each
pair reaches the raisin first and eats it. Of course
the two successful ones proceed to

Apple Duck. A large pan of water about five
inches deep holds four floating apples for which
the contestants “duck.” The winners pass on to

A Pare of Apples. Here each contestant is given
a gingham apron, a small knife, and an apple. The
two who succeed in cutting the
longest parings move on to

Korn Kernel Contest. An ear
of corn with uneven rows of
kernels is placed in the center
of the table. Each contestant

347

348 A HARVEST SALMAGUNDI

is given a chance to turn over the ear, but may not
remove it from the table. The object is to see who
can guess the nearest to the exact number of ker-
nels on the ear. Of course these must have been

previously counted by the master of ceremonies.‘

Each contestant must whisper the count to the
master of ceremonies, thus making the affair very
mysterious. The two who are successful proceed to

Peanut Pitch. Each contestant is furnished with
an ordinary knife. On the table are four small
agate pans. About twelve feet from the table is a
pile of peanuts on the floor. The object is to see
how many peanuts each person can lift from the
floor with the knife, being careful not to touch
them with fingers, carry them over to the table,
then pitch them into the pan. The pans are num-
bered I, 2, 3, 4. Each contestant must drop the
peanuts into his own pan. Should he do other—
wise, the count goes to the player into whose pan
they fall. The two who have the greatest number
to their credit go on to

Bean Bather. A deep agate pan is in the center
of the table. On the table before each player is a
pile of beans. These beans have numbers inked on
them I, 2, 3, 4. Each player is furnished with two
toothpicks. At the signal, the players try to lift a
bean between the two toothpicks and carry'it to

the pan. The two carrying thus the highest num-
ber move to

Apple Aggravation. This is simply a parody of
the old time potato race. Four rows of six apples
each are laid on the floor. Each player is given a
knife. The apples are to
be lifted from the floor

 

Seed Scramble. Each player is given a small
pan and told to-‘ hunt for pumpkin seeds. The
players finding the greatest number are adjudged
the winners.

-The signal is given to stop. The cards, each
with the owner’s name on it, are collected, and
later in the evening the winners are announced.
After music and songs, refreshments are served
consisting of pumpkin pie, brown bread and cheese
sandwiches, cookies, and coffee.

Try This One!

A new game of “Follow the Leader” might be a
good feature for such a party. Each player is
furnished with a pencil and with drawing paper of
uniform size. The leader, who has been selected
by the hostess, sits at the head of _the half—circle
formed by players. With his paper in hand, he,
draws and at the same time dictates a project of
any description, which his followers must try to
draw exactly as he dictates. He must dictate very
slowly and give every one enough time to draw.
If there are mountains in the picture, he will tell

- how many peaks there are, the direction in which

they extend, and all the minute details concerning
their appearance. If animals are drawn, the kind
and the position on the paper are all that is neces-
sary to tell. Many jokes on the company might
be recalled and worked into these pictures. The
results are always laughable.

Some Mixing Games

Finding Partners. For many programs it is de-
' sirable to match up all
the players by means of

to the table and dropped
into a pan. The two
finishing in the shortest
space of time progress
to

Pumpkin-Pie Pictures.
Each player is blind-
folded and given black
and yellow crayons. A
piece of wrapping paper
is pinned before him on
the wall and he is given
directions to draw a
picture of a pumpkin
pie. The two doing the
best work, which is, by
the way, judged by a
committee of two, go to

THANKSGIVING

"Today one hundred and thirty million Americans
keep the day the men and women of Plymouth first
set apart. We all know what Thanksgiving is—the
day of the meeting of friends and the gathering of

- families. It does not belong to any one creed or

stock among us. It does not honor any one man.
It is the whole family's day—the whole people's
day—the day at the turn of the year when we can
all get together. think over the past months a little.
feel a sense of harvestI a kinship with our' land. .It
is one of the most secure and friendly of all our
feasts. And yet it was first founded in insecurityI
by men who stood up to danger. And that spirit is
still alive."—Stepben Benét in "Thanks for America."
reprinted by courtesy of the Council of Democracy
in The Thanksgiving Book, published by the

National Recreation Association. ' Copies are avail-
able at 25 cents each.

 

some informal and
pleasant device. For
this part of the pro-
gram the element of
surprise and novelty is
of special value. Follow—
ing are a few useful}
means of “partnering.”

Menu. Each man
secures the signatures-
of as many girls as pos-l
sible in a given time.
Later, the first girl orl
his list becomes his first
partner, and for each
event on the program
his next partner is the

(Continued on page 381)
RECREATION

 

"The Things They Want to Do"

IEL'TENANT COMMANDER " Lieutenant Commander Nicholls. before thousands upon thousands

C. P. L. Nicholls was “‘9 war: “’55 suPe'VlSOI °f_ Recreallon 0f of recruits and ship’s com-
just back from a long Hm Los Angeles' Cal'f°'"'an Playground

7 _ . . t
tour of duty in the South and Recrea+ion Deparlmenl- pan) “ ould be pourmg m 0

the camp. Not many moons

Pacific. He had a job to do The recreation profession has reason to ago all these miles of land
and a slogan to do it by. be Pm“. °f “‘9 Par? being Played .by had been plain, unadulter-
The job? To build a wel- [many Of 'ls members m lhe morale'bu'ld' ated swamp. It was a thou-
, mg program of the Army and Navy. ,

fare and recreation pro- sand miles from nowhere,
gram‘at the U. S. Naval ‘ this camp —— a thousand
Training and Distribution Center, Camp \Vallace, miles from nowhere and Hat as the palm of your
Texas. The slogan? “Help the men do better the hand. There were no lakes, no swimming pools,
things they want to do anyway.” no tennis courts, no gymnasia—nothing but a vast

Lieutenant Commander Nicholls stood in the sun-drenched, humidity-soaked stretch of fields
middle of Camp Wallace and barracks lately oc-

and surveyed his domain. I . . . cupied by the Army. Even
Camp Wallace 5 open-air arenal wnth Its wooden -

It was the first of May . for a seasoned recreatlon -
benchesI was made entirely from scrap lumber.

and almost immediately H sea“ “3.000' and is used for Sport and worker the problem was

entertainments as well as for church services.

 

OCTOBER 1944 , 340

350 “THE THINGS THEY IrVANT TO DO”

a poser. Something had to be done and done
quickly. .

The next day Lieutenant Commander Nicholls
and his staff of officers and enlisted personnel went
to work to plan how to get the most out of what
they had. By the time the men began to arrive
they had a program planned out——-a program
which snowballed in scope and popularity as it
went along. The plan had two cornerstones,
movies and sports. Motion pictures were to be pre-
sented each night. Each program would be run
twice and the programs would be changed daily.
This met with the enthusiastic approval of the
men. The hall was filled for every performance.

The sports program was a “humdinger.” Soft-
ball led off. In one week 1,680 men played in I68
softball games. Volley ball and horseshoe pitch-
ing were very nearly as popular, and there was
apt to be a basketball or ping-pong game going on
somewhere most of the time. Intramural sports
between the departments added the spice of team
competition to the sports calendar. Softball once
again was most popular, but the other games had
their devotees.

Movies and sports settled into a daily routine
soon after the men checked in. And, without paus-
ing for breath the welfare and recreation staff
began work planning special events to add to the
structure. The camp needed an outdoor arena to
take care of such events. It needed a giant of an
arena, one that could seat 10,000. The space
itself could be set apart without any trouble. The
question was the seats. Ingenuity and hard work
brought the answer. Scrap lumber has a way of
collecting around a camp—a plank or so here, a
couple of two-by-fours there. When all these scraps
had been collected at Camp Wallace, when the
rusty nails had been pulled out and the rough
edges smoothed down, the carpenters went after
the scrap with hammer and saw and L0, in amaz-
ingly short order there were wooden benches
enough to seat 10,000 men on pleasure bent. The
arena was a great success. Smokers (with danc—
ers, musicians, specialty acts all provided by the
men at the camp), boxing matches, concerts, su_c-
ceeded each other during the week. On Sundays
two religious services were held regularly and
regularly attended by 5,000 men.

Saturday night dances for the enlisted personnel
were highlights of the recreation program. Young
civilian ladies from Houston (with chaperonage

supplied by the USO) supplemented the young
ladies of the \VAVES as dancing partners. The

ship’s company band made music and a good time
was enjoyed by all.

A'first-rate library lured about 700 men and
women each week into its quiet, if not exactly
cloistered, walls. A camp newspaper, The Square
Knot, printed weekly achievement records in re-
cruit training, sports results and stories about
men in action, not to mention good cartoons and
good jokes. Musicales with talent provided by the
men in the camp and regular concerts of recorded
music rounded out the program.

The welfare and recreation program has come
a long way since that grim day when Lieutenant
Commander Nicholls dismally swatted an early
mosquito and sighed over the job before him. The
program justifies the comment of Captain W. H.
Green, U.S.N.R., Commander of Camp Wallace,
that it “has been highly successful in providing a
wide range of constructive recreational activities
for all personnel at this station with the results
that the program has aided greatly in maintaining
the present high state of morale.” '

From Charleston, South Carolina, headquarters
of the Welfare and Recreation Office of the Sixth
Naval District, comes word of the following major
recreational accomplishments: 

Construction of gymnasiums, bowling alleys,
game rooms, swimming pools, tennis and handball
courts, and athletic fields

Erection of auditoriums where the latest movies
are shown as often as six nights a week, admission
free or for a charge not exceeding ten cents

Establishment of a district library system which
purchases thousands of the latest books, magazines
and newspapers and distributes them free'

Conducting of intramural tournaments in such !
sports as softball, bowling, golf and swimming -

Carrying on of a “ship fitness program” through
which men headed for sea are taught rough and J
tumble combat games, swimming, cargo net climb—
ing, rope climbing and similar activities.

Other services include the distribution of small
recreation kits of games and athletic goods to the |
crews of small patrol vessels, and a more elabor—
ate service to large warships putting in at the I
port. These ships may purchase at wholesale
games, phonograph records, and sports goods of
all kinds. The meq are notified of recreation fa-
cilities available in the Navy Yard and in the city,
and when the ships head back to sea they are given
movie films, knitted garments, ditty bags, comfort
kits, and books.

RECREATION

  
 

i

 

Recreation at: Sunrise ,

HE TOWN of Stratford,
Connecticut, was sleep”,
silent at 4:45 A. M. The
milkman was awake, and Joe—
behind the counter of the all—
night hamburger stand—had
one eye open. But Joe and the
milkman, with the best inten—
tions in the world, could hardly
be expected to provide satisfactory entertainment
for the hundreds of men and women who poured
out of the Chance Vought Aircraft plant fifteen
minutes later.
The swing-shifters looked upon the early morn—

. ‘ ing and found it good. After hours of close atten-

tion to the exacting jobs that go into the making
of 3 Corsair lighter, they were pretty well keyed
up. Men and women, old and young, they wanted
to play awhile before they scattered to their vari-
ous homes to sleep. But there wasn’t anywhere to
playw—not at 5 A. M. in the town of Stratford,
Connecticut. There were no movies, no dance
floors, no workshops or swimming pools or gym—
nasia or classrooms Open in that town at that hour.
The swing-shifters weren’t very happy about the
situation, Neither was the Chance Vought Per—
sonnel Department. So the Department put its
Counseling and Recreation Section to work in the
solving of the problem.

Plant and Community Cooperation Solve
the Problem of “Where”

The Counseling Unit— took its headache to the
community of Stratford—to ’the Sterling Commu—
nity Center, the Y.M.C.A.,,the Y.W.C.A., the
USO, the Orcutt Boys’ Club of Bridgeport; to the
proprietors of movie theaters and skating rinks.
The response was immediate and wholehearted.
The swing-shifters got their place to play—every
man and woman of them. The Stratford commu—

nity leaders and the commercial recreation purvey-
ors found it for them.

The Counseling Unit Finds Out “What”

The next step was to find out what kinds of
play these people wanted. They were not a homo-
geneous group. They came from Vermont and
Kentucky, Chicago, and New York. They came

OCTOBER 1944

By FRANK J. DELEAR

Mr. Delear, who gives us' in this
story of "crack-ot-dawn"'recreation.
the latest in our series on recrea-
tion in industrial plants,' is Publi-
city Representativel United Aircraft
CorporationI Chance Vought Aircraft
DivisionI Stratfordl Connecticut.

from the city and the farm.
They were young and old.
Their educational. backgrounds
were as varied as their experi—
ences. Some were musical.
Others were athletic. Some
wanted to sit in a movie. Others
wanted to paint a‘ picture. The
Counseling and Recreation
Unit undertook to analyze and synthesize their
recreational wants and needs. Personal interviews
were held and a survey was made by card ques-
tionnaire. The day—time workers listed thirty-
seven different activities as desirable leisure-time
occupations; the night workers listed eighteen.
W’ith these lists to guide them, the Counseling
Unit went to work to provide the kind of recrea—
tion program the workers wanted.

Many people with special talents were discov-
ered among the personnel within the plant. All of
these people gladly agreed to help with the pro-
gram, serving as leaders or instructors for groups
and classes. A recreation counselor set up groups
for the activities that had been suggested. Then
the counselor withdrew. The group was on its own.
Except for occasional friendly oversight by the
counselor, it was up to the workers to make their
own activity “march.”

Swing-shifters Use the Facilities

The “Dip and Dance” parties were the most
popular pastime on the program. About 200 work—
ers followed an early morning swim with dancing,
movies, games or athletics of some kind. A father
and his two daughters from Kentucky made square
dancing one of the happiest features of the “Dip
and Dance” parties. One of the girls called the
figures while her sister and her father furnished
the music on piano and fiddle.

Peacetime experts in many subjects put'their
talents to work to help their wartime associates
find recreation. A former star of the VVorld’s
Fair Aquacade gave instruction in swimming and
diving. Other specialists taught dancing and fenc—
ing, music, and boxing. One worker, nearing 60,
whose life-time ambition had been to train his
voice, took vocal lessons—and made remarkable -
progress.

351

352 RECREATION AT SUNRISE

The workers at the plant requested instruction
in such subjects as stenography, dramatics, inter-
ior decoration, and pro-flight aeronautics. Classes
were provided in all these subjects. Spanish danc~
ing and the Spanish language were taught at the
same time, and many pupils found the tango harder
to master than the “tengo, tengas, tenga” of the
declensions. A request for a class in Chinese came
from several workers. This almost stumped the
Recreation Unit at first, but the counselors found
a Chinese engineer among the personnel at V ought.
He put a class of twenty to work mastering Chin-
ese characters and inflections.

Ceramics, crafts, sketching, painting in oil and
water color are all being taught to scores of begin~
ning artists and craftsmen. Cooking and sewing
classes are popular among the women who are,
perhaps. looking forward to the time when they
will need again the peacetime arts of the house—
hold. One woman from Ver—
mont reported sadly that
she could find recreation in

More than forty enthusiastic beginners and

experienced artists attend the sketch classes
held both at Sterling House and out of doors

only one thing—making a garden grow. There
didn’t, at first, seem to be any bits of land standing
around loose, but the superintendent of a housing
project made it possible for the Vermont lady to
have her garden.

Perhaps it is too much to say that every one of
the workers in the Vought plant now has the
facilities to mould his world closer to his heart’s
desire, but at least he has the opportunity to
make his leisure time full of interesting things.
For all those activities that lend themselves to it,
moreover, public performances are given (with co—
workers for audience) so that these groups can
have the pleasure of demonstrating the fruits of
their recreative labors to others. Fashion shows
and a “Varieties” show have been presented to
enthusiastic crowds. The “Varieties” was a smash
hit in spite of limited time for rehearsal and pro-
duction. Still in blueprint form are plans for a
hobby show and for art
exhibits. The Drama group

(Continued on page 382)

 

Courtesy United Aircraft Corporation

RECREATION

 

. Talent Scout for Servicemen

NE RECENT after-
0 noon Signor Gae-

tano Merola, di-
rector-general of the San
Francisco Opera, held a
private audition.

The singer was a profes-
sionally unknown GI
Joe, yet his rich tenor
swelled like the tones of a bell through the vast
but empty opera house.

“That’s very fine, my boy,” Merola said. “I
think you’ll do. Come and see me next week.”

“Next week,” the soldier said quietly, “I may
‘be in the South Pacific. But I’ll be back for the
job—later.”

On the same day another GI Joe sold a Cali-
fornia ceramics manufacturer the first statuette
he had ever carved in his life. A third soldier
delivered the manuscript of a first novel to author
Oscar Lewis for critical advice. And still another
rode a street car out to a San Francisco art mu—
seum to attend the first exhibition of his own
water colors.

There was nothing isolated
about these incidents. They
were typical events in a more
or less typical week for;
Charles Cooper’s boys.

In the past two years
concert pianist Charles
Cooper has pioneered,
built, and inspired what
is perhaps the nation’s
most unusual service—
men’s center ——— a place
where privates and of—
licers can develop and
keep alive their creative
talent and ambition.

Some 3,000 men from
all the services have
already beaten a path
to Cooper’s big studios
in San Francisco for
their mental doughnuts
and coffee. Currently
they are pouring into

OCTOBER 1944

By DEAN 8. JENNINGS

San Francisco has a canteen that's
unlike the others.
canteen where servicemen may come

to keep alive their creative talent.

We need more "mental" canteens to

give our servicemen the satisfying
feeling that their talents haven't

been "put on ice for the duration"

 

the place at a rate of 500
a month —amateurs and
professionals alikemget-
ting started on postwar
careers in the only kind
of class the Army and
Navy do not teach, or

It's a "mental"

they go overseas.

Cooper’is “mental” canteen, as he likes to call it,
is no place for dreamy longhairs. Instead it is a
practical, long-range project that is already paying
cash dividends to some of the lads.

Since he first opened the doors in 19°42, Cooper’s
boys have done hundreds of paintings and draw-
ings that have been exhibited in galleries, or sold,
or just sent home for the den. They have written
books, prize-winning poems, and articles. They
have composed concertos and anthems. They have
danced with the San Francisco Ballet, and played
with the men of the San Francisco Symphony. It
hasn’t cost the GI Joes a dime, and they’ve been
given thousands of dollars worth of lessons and
advice by professional musi-
cians, actors, writers, and
artists.

In fact, Charles Cooper’s
boys have done such a
fine job that the city of
San Francisco recently
became official sponsor
for the whole project
and is absorbing' the
costs.

Cooper’s remarkable
service center is really
the result of his own
experiences during the
last world war, during
which he ran into scores
of fellow musicians
whose hands and voices
had rusted because there
was no place to work,
even on furlough. When
the nation went to war
again he asked himself
the question: “If I were

353

just talking shop before! .

354 TALENT SCOUT FOR SERVICEMEN

in the service now, what kind of help would I

want most?”
He knew the answer, and he determined to do

something about it. He already had an ideal setup,
a group of studios surrounding a garden court in
the heart of Chinatown, but he needed personnel
and material.

He went to the city’s art goods dealers first,
coaxed them to donate paints, brushes, canvas,
modeling clay. Next he approached art patrons,

' personal friends and business men, and talked
them into donating musical instruments, type-
writers, paper, tools, sheet music, books and ofhce
equipment. Art instructors, music publishers,
draughtsmen, bookbinders, and ceramists soon got
in line, and half a dozen radio stations jumped in
with an offer of free time for any radio plays writ-
ten by the boys.

The Servicemen's Arts Center was a fact. The
boys came in dribbles at first, hesitant and abashed.
One of the first was Seaman Cecil Bly of Asotin,
Washington, who had once used a mail-order
etching outfit and had always wanted to see a
real etcher at work. Cooper sent him to the studios
of Nicholas Dunphy, where the boy was given a
start on his chosen work.

When the grapevine passed along the news that
the Center was no stuffed-shirt salon but a real
workshop, the GI Joes swelled into a torrent. As
one youngster told Cooper, “I’d have given six
months’ pay and all the girl shows and fancy
dinners put together to be alone with a grand
piano. That’s a kind of loneliness a lot of people
don’t understand.” - '

Among the early regulars was Corporal Art
Cordoza, who had escaped from Bataan. He was
thin and jittery, and his hands shook so badly he
couldn’t sign the register that first day. But after
a week of Cooper’s “therapy,” exacting but re-
laxing work with a paint brush, the boy had a fine
start toward recovery . Subsequently he showed so
much talent that he was offered a job as a de-
signer by a San Francisco department store.

To encourage group activity, C00per established
a fixed daily schedule. Tuesday evening is set
aside for classes in clay modeling, with occasional
lectures on heroic sculpture. Life classes are set
up for Thursday nights. Saturday nights are re—
served for writers, amateur or professional, who
join in discussions about literary techniques and
styles. But the big night is Sunday. In one studio
you might see a dozen boys, and perhaps a few
uniformed girls, sprawled in chairs or on the Hoor

   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
  

reading play scripts. Next door there might be a
quartet in blue and gold braid playing a piece
composed by some sailor or private. In still an—
other studio the walls would echo to the familiar
strains of an operatic aria or duet, sung by young
soldiers and sailors just learning the score.

Cooper maintains a list of distinguished volun-
teers of all arts and crafts, who will rush to the
Center at a moment’s notice to help a serviceman
spend those last few hours in America with profit.
And if any of the boys wants a private lesson, they
all have a standing invitation to visit the home
studios of the volunteer teachers. ' ’

The big registration book has long since gone
into a second volume, with GIs from all forty-
eight states and the territories. Some have come
regularly for months while stationed near San
Francisco. Some have stayed only a day and then
shipped out for the battle zones.

Many of Cooper’s boys have left their unfinished
statues, paintings, and compositions at the studios.
Later they are carefully wrapped and shipped to
the families at home. Some paintings have been
sent to studios and galleries for exhibitions, and
the Arts Center has sponsored five such shows.

Cooper set up a card index of all the service-
men who had permission from their officers to
work, and passed the word around that he had
talent for hire by the hour, day, week, or project.
The first call came from an Oakland department
store, which wanted some showcard artists and
window dressers for part—time work. Cooper sent
them. Next he had a note from a San Francisco
advertising agency. Did he have a layout man for
weekend work? Indeed he did. And scores of
Army and Navy men have participated in San
Francisco’s entertainment activities—from ballet
dancing to playing bits on radio soap operas.

Cooper sees his work as the genesis of postwar
rehabilitation, as the conception of postwar
careers. For tomorrow the boys will be trading
their guns for paints and typewriters and the in-
struments of music. The day after tomorrow
they’ll be in our magazines, our opera houses. our
galleries, and our radio stations. "

Perhaps Chief Yeoman Keith Allen summed it-
up when he wrote: “As I sat in the studio, forgot-j
ten dreams came out of the dark corners of my'
mind. I realized that all of us there had put what-
ever Spirit and talent we owned on ice for the :
duration. You can do that with a Chevvy, but not
with that part of you which is sometimes referred
to as the soul. I was suddenly very grateful.”

RECREATION

NCE UPON' a time
0 people got old.
They sat huddled
up in rocking chairs. Or
they crept along, all bent

over, down to the corner
once a day to talk about

got to be sixty, women took to their quilting and
men to their newspapers and all of them quarreled
, with their children about their.grandchildren’s
raisin’. ’

But that was once upon a time. If you don't
believe it take a look at the First National Three-
Quarter Century Club. Over twenty years ago
lEvelyn Barton Rittenhouse, in St. Petersburg,
' Florida, founded a new kind of an organization.
The only requirement was that no one could

 

‘ of seventy-five—at least! Today, if the adage
“once a man, twice a child” is true, then St. Peters—
burg provides a playground for the biggest army
of “children” in America!

“Take me out to the ball game” is the theme

Petersburg from every state in the union——even
California, believe it or not !—to spend the winter
taking part in the activities of the Three-Quarter
Century Club. Their season starts in November
and they do things and go
places! They have regular

It's no asset to be young it you want
to join this highly desirable club in
St. Petersburg, Florida! You must be
at least 75. and the older the better.

the weather and remember old days. When they

become a member who had not reached the age -

song for thousands of oldsters who come to St:

No l-lits, No Runs, Plenty Errors!

and the errors ‘are the
high spots of many of the
games.

One of the players was
accustomed, when run-
ning to base, to stop just
before he got there and
jump the rest of the way so that he landed squarely
on the plate with both feet. Another 90-year—old
sprinter insisted on carrying the bat under his arm
until he reached third. Then he’d toss it aside and
really get down to business. One of the fans’
favorites was a southpaw, and for some reason
known only to himself he insisted on running to
third base instead of to first! Every now and then
there was a collision—and a scrap! On one such
occasion the other scrapper was a preacher. He
started in “cussing” and both the men got ready
for a good fist-fight. But the preacher remem-
bered in time and pulled himself away—albeit
somewhat reluctantly. “Forgive me, brother,” he
said. .“F or a minute I forgot I was a preacher and
thought I was a ball player.”

Another unforgettable incident of the diamond

happened to a “young” gentleman of 84. He just
barely missed scoring a home run because he

stopped half-way between third base and the home

plate to pick up something. When the umpire
jumped on him for stopping, the player yelled,

“Well, damn it, I dropped
my teeth!” Imagine the

meetings. They sing. They
play ball. They cut capers
all over the place.

The ball teams play to
capacity crowds twice
weekly. Thousands gather
there in the water front
park to root for their favor-
ites. The games ring the
bell for excitement, origi-
nality, fun and almost un-
believable accomplish-
ments—unbelievable, that
is, according to the stand—
ards of once upon a time.

 

“No hits, no runs, plenty '

errors” is an apt slogan,

‘7‘

OCTOBER 1944

Miami. Florida; Richmond and Norfolk. Vir-

ginia; Providence. Rhode Island; and Brooklyn.

New York. all have their Three Score and Ten
Clubs. according to Mrs. Rittenhouse. The

-Three-Quarter Century Club in Maine has.

perhaps. the largest membershipI while a club
of the same name in Battle Creek. Michigan.
which was started with the help of Dr. Kellogg.
is veryactive. Oalr Park. Illinois. is proud of her
Borrowed Time Club. organized years ago by
a local group which included the editor of one
of Chicago's daily papers. Lima. Ohio. and
Seattle.Washington. each sponsors a Borrowed
Time Club. Hamburg. Iowa. has its Diamond
Club. and Royalton. Vermont. its SeventyYear
Old Club. Some members from all these clubs
winter in St. Petersburg. and there is an ex-
change ot experiences. Each club is independ-
ent. with its own objectives and regulations.

kick that 5,000 roaring
fans got out of that
classic! It even made the
newsreels.

The baseball teams pro-
vide, perhaps, the most
Spectacular activity of the
Club. But the chorus is at
least equally popular, and
it gives the ladies a chance
to shine. The Club’s sec-
retary is kept busy think-
ing up new capers for the
group to cut. For after
you reach the three ’score
and ten milestone, pro-

(Cmrtinucd on page 381)

355

A Library Book Fair

BOOK FAIR as complete as
library space would permit
was a feature of the pro-

gram last year at the State Hos-
pital at St. Peter, Minnesota.

There were six booths—Travel, Minnesota,

Garden Life, Home Arts, Machinery Hill, and a “

Sideshow boasting a clown and fortuneteller.

The Travel Booth was the most extensive. M any
pictures of foreign lands surrounded an outline
map of the world whose slogan was “Read a book
and see the world.” The flags of the Allied Na-
tions bordered the map, lending not only color but
purpose to the entire display. Along the same wall
travel posters were put up. The magazine rack
displayed the National Geographic, Asia, Traveler,
Highway Traveler, and other periodicals of this
nature. An easy chair, a small table with interest-
ing books within tempting reach, and a global map
of the world, with a Chinese screen forming a
background, emphasized the fact that the “arm
chair” mode of travel is the easiest, cleanest, cheap-
est, and most pleasant.

The idea of Machinery Hill was an inspiration—-
but how were we going to make a gently rolling
slope from chairs, a desk, piles of magazines and
a few pillows? The problem dissolved .when a
downtown funeral director offered us ‘strips of the
artificial green grass coverings. Machinery Hill,
proudly verdant, displayed its burden of toy trucks,
planes, ships and tractors which spotlighted the
trade magazines and books on the making of mo-
tion pictures, amateur photography, giant ships,
and transport airplanes.

The Garden Life booth was beautifully colorful
and the bright spot of attraction. Its background
consisted of the leftover yellow lining of our cur-
tains draped artistically over two chairs and a
small stepladder. Amid the lovely confusion of
nature’s purples, pinks, reds, greens, yellows, and
lavenders, we placed, at strategic points, books on
wild flowers, small gardens, birds, and flower ar-

rangements and the magazine Better Homes and
Gardens.

The wares of the Home Arts section were set
forth on the combination of a long table topped
with an equally long knee-length bookshelf. Two
glasses of jelly pointed out the cookbooks; a small

356

By ELIZABETH J. Spoons

Librarian
State Hospital Library
St. Peter, Minnesota

'of corn was the only financial outlay for the whole

hooked rug gave background to
Handmade Rugs and Home
Weaving; half finished knitting
and a egocheted doin enhanced
instructions given by the Manual
of Crocheting and Knitting; a brass dish empha-
sized Do Your Own Decorating; and the remain-
ing spaces were filled with Better Homes and

Gardens, McCalls, Good Housekeeping, Ladies
Home Journal, and other magazines.

The Sideshow made use of a great many card-
board boxes cut out to resemble cages and splashed
with gay carnival colors. Inside these cages re-
sided books on the ferocious animals of the jungle.
For atmosphere, we added'a toy elephant, goat,
giraffe and a Humpty Dumpty borrowed from the
circus which had been given by the Recreation
Department of the hospital. In these surroundings.
the fortuneteller forecast futures with cards on
which had been typed the titles of books.

We had been saving the cellophane wrappers
from cigarette packages and on Book Fair day we
filled them with popcorn and passed them to every-
one—-and the thirty—six cents spent for three bags“

affair.

Entertainment consisted of a Book Dance with
six girls inside huge books of wrapping paperl
colored and titled appropriately, a group of folkl
dances as a special feature of the Travel booth, and '
singing by a group of women. A clown, whose.1
identity remained unknown, officiated well and I
kept even the most bewildered guests entertained. '

The consensus of opinion was that the affair
was a complete success. But most important thing
of all was that there has been continued interest in
the books which were on display at the Fair and
in the library all year round.

“Let us make ‘United Through Books' our con-
tribution to the better world that a deeper, richer
understanding alone will make possible," urges
the Committee sponsoring Children’s Book Week,
which will be celebrated November 13-18, 1944.
Promotional material will soon be available. Com-
plete information may be secured from Laura

Harris, Director, Children’s Book Week, 6.3 “test
45th Street, New York 19,6N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Living. Marionettes Take a Bow

H HERE’S my voice?
Have you seen my
voice?” begs the

Snooty Bush Pig.

“Oh, don’t have a tit, Jane. Your voice and mine
are in the workshop getting our controls.”

Of all the frantic, last minute searches that can
be made just before curtain time, none is so urgent
and detached as an actor searching for his voice!
It often happens in Palo Alto’s Children’s Thea—
tre just before places are called for Live Marion-
ette shows.

Living marionettes were used for the first time
last year at Palo Alto,
where new techniques
are constantly. sought
after. The director and
staff are always on the
alert to introduce fresh
possibilities in dramatics
to the hundreds of boys
and girls who partici—
pate each year in this
outstanding play shop.
Since 1932, when the
Children's Theatre was
started with a handful
of youngsters, it has
come a long way.* It is
probably the only or—
ganization of its kind in
the country because it
is subsidized by the city
and open to all the chil—
dren of the community
who wish to come. Each
year the theatre pre—
sents a very full pro—
gram—a major produc—
tion every six weeks
during the school year,
a show a week during
the summer, festivals,
and creative dramatic
shows. Living marion—
ettes offer the latest

 

:‘See RECREATION XXXV. 9.
December 1941.

OCTOBER 1944

By HAZEL GLAISTER ROBERTSON
Children's Theatre
Palo Alto. California

 

technique that has been tried
for giving the boys and girls
who participate the best pos-
sible chance to learn a craft.
Dramatic values are well served by living mar-
ionettes. There is no better way, for example, to
prove to youngsters that a character comes alive
on the stage only through a combination of physi-
cal and mental interpretation. The children on
the acting end of the strings have been thoroughly
trained in pantomime; they have been costumed
and made—up. But, until they find their voices,
the play. cannot go on. The two parts of the
character, body and
voice, must reach a
common understanding
of the part they are
playing. This necessity
is pointed up by the
physical need of coming
. together before the cur-
tain can rise.

There are other things
to recommend the live
marionette technique for
child actors. The fin-
ished product has a high
entertainment value for
young audiences. Most
youngsters like marion—
ettes and good scripts

"can always be found
for them, but the ordi—
nary marionette show
has disadvantages for
the audience and for the
production group.
Watching mechanical
marionettes acting on
theirvsmall stages is not
altogether eaSy on young
eyes, and the audience
is apt-to get restless
under the strain. With
live actors performing
in the matter of mar-
ionettes, all the fun of

(C ontin-ucd on page 383)

Picture by Anita Fowler

357

Americans at Play in the Far North

ETCIIIKAN is Alaska’s sec—
K 0nd largest town. Its resi—

dents— there are about
5,000 of them during the win-
ter season —take their living,
for the most part, from the sea.
Fishing and salmon canning
are its principal resources. '
Since 1942, due to the ubiqui-
tous labor shortage, many of
Ketchikan’s women and older
boys have joined the men in
getting the season’s catch in and canned.

0

A Problem Seen and Faced

Summer days are long in Ketchikan—long and
often rainy or fog-filled. Ketchikan’s boys and
girls were restless and at loose ends. Like so many
other youngsters all over the United States, some
of them sought outlets for their undirected energies
in petty crime, in drinking and loafing. They were
bored, and they got into mischief. The citizens of
the, town came together to find a remedy for this
evil that was threatening all their children when it
threatened one.

The adults recognized this problem of juvenile
delinquency as their problem. They thought that
they had the remedy. The believed that if they
could fill up this void of time with useful and
healthful activity; if they could match this rest-
lessness with enthusiasm directed toward some-
thing; if they could provide friendly and helpful
supervision—if they could do these things they
would have solved the problem out of hand and
with 110 further ado. 'They established and sup-
ported—with interest and fund—a Recreational
Council, a group of people who met twice each
month to find ways and means for bringing about
the objectives they had set themselves.

Physical Equipment and Leadership

With the whole community behind them, the
Council acquired six playgrounds in addition to_
the two school playgrounds already in existence.
These were graded and filled by the city, equipped
and put in working condition by such organiza-
tions as the Elks Lodge. A swimming park, four
miles outside of the town,. was cleaned up and

made ready for useowhen' the weather would

358

 

It is a matter of regret that space
does not permit of our publishing in
its entirety the Report of the Summer
Recreation Activities of the Recrea-

tional Council of Ketchikan, AlaskaI
forwarded to us by the Alaska Depart-

ment of Public WelfareI which com-
mends heartily the work which has been
done. It is a record of community
planning and cooperation which might
well set a pattern for many a larger city.

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  

permit. An indoor play center
for rainy days was contributed
by the city and renovated. Two
coastguardsmen were loaned
by their captain to supervise
the outdoor recreation program
and a full-time director was
hired to run _the play center.

The Program

By the time that playgrounds
and indoor center were ready,
the Council (after due consultation with the
youngsters concerned) planned a program for the
summer. The season got off to a good start with
a two-weeks marble tournament complete with
prizes and publicity. This was followed by soft-
ball leagues which were welcomed with open arms
by the boys. Arrangements were made to have a
big game hunter who lived in the community give
instruction in archery. Children and adults, pro-
fessionals and beginners flocked to the butts and
continued flocking throughout the summer.

Every afternoon (except \Vednesday) eighty
youngsters were taken by truck to the swimming
park. Forty of them were learning to swim for
the first time. Going to and coming from the park
they developed their own community singing.
\Vednesday was movie day. Youngsters and
adults both poured into the USO gymnasium to
see the shows, which, by the way, were media for
visual education as well as fun for the kids.

Swimming, hiking, and fishing trips to one of '
the three lakes near Ketchikan were planned for
Saturday afternoons. Good weather was preferret
for these outings but they took place rain or shine
—-to the tune of laughter and pokes and familiar
songs—and they were remembered and talked
about for weeks afterward.

Off and on during the summer the youngster
were taken on educational field trips to Ketchikai
industries. They went to the Fish Laboratory 0
the Cannery or the Mink Farm so that they migh
be more intelligent about the community in whicl
they lived.

The play center was the scene of great activity
Radio classes were held on Monday and Thurs
day evenings from 7 to 9. Courses in Morse code

(Continued on. page 384)

RECREATION

 

Have a Theme for Your Party

By ETHEL BOWERS
_National Recreation Association

HAT KIND of an affair are
Wyou going to have? If a

dance, is it to be just a
dance, or a dance with table and other games near-
by, an old-fashioned dance, a square dance, or one
with a night club setting? For a fiesta you’ll want
dancing, yes, but also booths for refreshments and
games, strolling entertainers and special events. A
progressive games party or a carnival should have

booths for games of all kinds, while an open house

\ party offers every available game and activity plus

informal dancing and singing around the piano. Both
the progressive games party and open house party
usually end with square dancing or social dancing.
A cruise party is just about the same, but with a
shipboard atmosphere, visiting “native” entertain-

‘ers, special events, and finishes with a captain’s

ball.

There’ is the outdoor-indoor party starting with
a treasure, salvage or scavenger hunt, with a picnic

'or cook-out of some kind, swim, bicycle ride, or
‘ hike, roller or ice skating, field day or just out-

door games and concluding indoors with dancing,
either square or social, singing, and perhaps an
amateur hour. ,

W'here space is limited or it is desired to have
people in small groups, we sometimes have the
“unit” party with different activities in each room
or in the corners of a large room, or at banquet
tables. A good example of this is “Everybody’s
Birthday Party” with twelve groups, one for each
month, according to the guest’s birth month, or
“A College Course in One
Evening,” with groups rep-

active and quiet games, singing
and possibly entertainment or
stunts.

_ \Nhen parties must be held in a hall with fixed
seats, or a huge crowd ofopeople of all ages must
be jammed into one small hall, an auditorium
party is suggested. This may consist of songs of
all kinds (especially action songs, or those with
stamping, clapping, rising up and sitting down,
and the accumulation songs such as “Old Mac-
Donald Has a Farm”), quizzes, stunts, amateur
hours, mock broadcasts and contests, with every-
one participating or with a few from each team.
Often this party finishes with movies or a com—
munity sing.

Among the novelty parties are the “crazy” type
used for April Fool’s Day especially, the costume
parties, and the do-it—yourself parties where the
guests make things such as costumes, decorations,
their own refreshments, or souvenirs to take home.
Finally, there is the banquet and the usual small
home birthday party or other family celebration.

Having selected the most suitable type of party,
the next thing is to get a theme to fit the occasion,
the time of year, the people, and their interests.
By adapting games to this theme, giving them new
names, using suitable songs and music for musical
mixers, finding or making up quizzes on the sub-
ject and having at your fingertips some old stand-
bys such as a Grand March, a Virginia Reel, or '
a square dance or two—you can build your own
party around the theme you have selected. If in
addition you can draw out
the creative abilities of the

 

resenting the ’Freshman,
Sophomore, junior and
Senior classes.

When you have a large
room and do not wish to
have dancing, especially
where there is only one
trained leader available, the
mass party is advisable, in
which everyone does the
same thing under the lead-
er’s direction. The program

usually consists of a pre-

party activity, musical,

OCTOBER 1944

. Parties written around a number of the
themes suggested here are available from
the National Recreation Association in
individual issues of RECREATION or in re-
prints. and in mimeographed torm. Several
partiesI such as "Alphabet." "Birthday."
"Our Times," "Detective." will be found
in the new bookletl Parties A to Z, which
may be secured for 75 cents.

It you are interested in material to help
you in planning your parties we suggest
you send for the list of the Association's
publications on the subject—"A Few
Publications on Social Recreation."

guests in stunts and find and
use their talents in an ama-
teur hour, you will have an
interesting evening for
young and old, participant
or spectator.

A Few Themes

Here are some party
themes to stimulate your
imagination :

Adventure -- Travel, Around

the World, Ship Ahoy, Ship—
board, Shipwreck, Yachting,

359

360

Cruise, International, Bon Voyage, Nautical, National-

ity Travelogue
Adgertising
Airplane
All American

All Seasons—Autumn, Winter, Spring ~Fever, Summer,

Midsummer Night

HAVE A THEME FOR YOUR PARTY

Down Argentine Way

Dramatic—Characters of Famous Plays, Theater,
Thespian, Play Reading, Play Writing

Dutch 4!

Egg

Election—Political, Political Bridge

Alphabet Engagement

Animal Eskimo
Anniversary—Silver, Gold, Tin, \Vooden Exchange

Apache '

Apple Gathering False and True

April Fish Family—Family Album

April Fools, All Fools Day, Foolishness Unlimited, Topsy—
“ Turvy, Backwards, Ridiculous, Mad House, Upside
Down, Much Ado About Nothing, Nonsense

April Shower
Apron and Necktie, Apron Antics
Around the Corner, Prosperity

Arty—Fun to Make Favors, Let’s Make Things,

Handcraft
Athletic, All American Sports
Attic
Auction
Automobile—Motor

Bachelor

Bachelor Maids, Old Maids, Sadie Hawkins

Balloon "
Banquets—Dinner Ta=ble Fun

Barn Dance—Harvest Barn Dance, Berry, Cake, Husking
Bee, Farmers’ Social, Basket, Box Social, Chicken

Social, Hay Ride, Pie

Baseball

Beach

Beginning of School

Bird

Birthday—Everybody’s, Party of the
Months

Blind Date

Book Lovers—Book, Fact and Fiction

Brides

Cafeteria

Camp—Campfire

Children’s — Alice in Wonderland,
Fairyland, Babes in Toyland, Story-
book, Mother Goose, Cinderella,
Old Folks (children dress
up), Bubble, Balloon, Parents ,

Chinese—China Clipper

Circus

Class

College

Colonial—1776

Come and Get It

Comic Strip

Community — Amateur Hour,
Nights of Fun

Country Fair or Carnival

Detective
Dinner at Eight

Farewell
Fashion Show

Famous People—Books, Movies, Sweethearts. Couples

Fiesta—South American \‘Vay

Fishing
Flag
Flower

Foliage Festival

Folk Dance
Football

Friday—The Thirteenth, Thirteen

Futurama, 1978

Garden
Gay Nineties

Good Riddance, Going Away
Graduation

Gypsy

  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   

Gedge H armon

May Day, with its old traditions,
is an attractive theme for a party

Handcraft

Hard Times—Sack Tacky.
Poverty

Harvest Moon, Harvest Supper

Heart, Lovers’ Quest k

Hello Social

Historical

Hit or Miss

Hobby — Try-a-Hobby,
Things

Hobo

Hollywood

Horoscope, Zodiac, Astrology

House Warming

Hunting

Tacky,

Let’s Make

Immigration
Indian
Indoor Picnic — Fireplace

Supper
Intercollegiate Indoor Track

Meet

Jack Frost— Winter Carnival,
Ice Carnival, Silver Blades,
January Games

Jazz Age

Jesters

Key Hole
Kitchen
(Continued on page 386)

RECREATION

A And Sunday,Too

The young people of Lancaster
wanted something to do on Sun-
days after church services;
something that would be in
keeping with the traditional
observance of the day. but
still something that would be

fun! So they called on the
city's ministers to help in

the planning. And they did!

ANCASTER, PENNSYLVANIA, had a plethora of
L youth organizations. Things were humming
along among the young people at a fast clip.
The only trouble was they weren’t always hum-
ming exactly in tune. Sometimes there were four
or five activities to choose from. But at other
times there just “wasn’t anything to do.” So the
various groups got together, two youngsters and
an adult advisor from each organization, for a bit
of coordinating. They worked out a plan so that
something would be cooking somewhere all the
time from Monday through Saturday. The Co-ed
'Club, a newly organized group agreed to open
their club Monday, Wednesday and Friday eve-
nings. The Y.\N.C.A., with their “Hang-Qut,”
took charge of Tuesday evenings. The Triangle
Club of the Y.M.C.A. and the Recreation Asso-
ciation became responsible for Thursday and Sat-
urday. The Saturday night party was a commu—
nity dance. Juke boxes and jitterbugging, penny
fairs and amateur Hoor shows, cokes and chatter
fell into a good pattern for spending the shank of
a summer’s day in pleasant company.

The only trouble was Sunday night. 'Nobody
had any really good ideas about Sunday and some-
thing was needed and needed badly for that time.
The Lancaster Youth Planning Commission ap-
pealed to the Ministerial Association and together
the two groups developed a program for Sunday
evenings. The Ministerial Association, through
its chairman, appointed a special committee of
three to meet with the Youth Commission and
issued a general invitation to other ministers to

OCTOBER 1944

 

Courtesy Lancaster, Pa., Y. W.C.A.

By GRANT D. BRANDON

Director of Recreation
Lancaster, Pennsylvania

come to the meeting. Sixteen pastors besides the
committee attended the general meeting. It was an
interesting session! There were a certain number
of misunderstandings to be cleared away before
churchmen and young people could even begin
their planning. Many of the ministers were amazed
that the youngsters actually wanted assistance in
arranging a Sunday evening program and would
hardly believe they were not particularly inter-
ested in dancing! So the ministers came to under—
stand that the boys and girls were really seeking
help in developing appropriate evening activities,
and the teen-agers realized that their “spiritual
pastors and masters” were not opposed to whole-
some recreation on the Lord’s day.

This was the way it came about that the young
people of Lancaster found church buildings and
grounds open to them for games and campfire
talks and group singing topped off by simple re-
freshments. Every other Sunday beginning the
second Sunday in July one or the other of the
churches in Lancaster which had out-of—doors
space that could be lighted was turned over to the
youngsters from 9 P. M. until 10:30 P. M. Each
program was planned by a committee. Accordingly

( C ontimred on page 382)

361

What-They Say About Recreation

‘ v

N F ONE DID NOT learn to enjoy play when a
I child, it is not too late at any age. The day
has arrived when many people feel embar-
rassed when they do not know how to take part
in some sport.”—Dr. Maude L. Etheredge.

“Recreation, change, the pursuit of a hobby, and
the cultivation of a taste for fine literature—each
is as medicine to the mind, which in turn reflects
upon the entire physical body.”—George Matthew

Adams.

.“The constructive use of one’s leisure is a nec--‘

essary balance to a life of work. Its wise use con—
tributes to one’s health and happiness !”—From'.

Physical Fitness for Boys, by Miller, Bookwalter,

and S chlafer.

“An artist has been delined as one who brings
order out of chaos, and art as the Iinest way of
doing things.”———Cliester G. Marsh.

“Play expresses the child’s relation to himself
and his. environment, and, without adequate op—
portunity for'play, normal and satisfactory emo-
tional development is not possible.”—.Margaret

Lowenfeld.

“Music is the voice of civilization and we must
not lose interest in the very things we are fighting
to preserve.”——Dr. William Lyon Phelps.

“Leisure at its best is of course time for ‘doing.’
It is a time for engaging in activitiesthat are
required, not to satisfy the necessities of life, but
to satisfy those needs that arise from deep within
us—in a “longing for more complete living.”—
Helen Pendergast. i

._._._..

 

“Handicraft has healing ‘powers. By its magic
it can transport one from a troubled world to a
realm of enchantment where nature heals in her
own subtle way.”—Ellsw0rth faeger.

“Since there is at the present time a general
stirring of interest in American folk lore, let us
take advantage of the situation and make organized
efforts to preserve our cultural heritage as we are

trying to preserve our forests, land and wildlife."
~——Sarah Gertrude Knott. '

362

“Recreation is a mode of behavior, either indi-
vidual or collective, which has its own drive and
gives current satisfactions, and is not undertaken
for any goal or purpose beyond itself.”—Martizi
N. N eanieyer.

“There is something fundamentally satisfying
about making something with your own hands.”—
From Let’s H ave Fun at Home, published by the
Conrz'znmiity Recreation Association, Richmond,

Virginia.

. “Photography is a hobby enjoyed by literally
millions of people of all ages, nationalities, and
both sexes. Among its followers are people of all
walks of' life, temperaments, and interests for
whom the camera serves as a great common de-
nominator.”~——Lewis L. Robbins.

“Taking the youth of the community from the
alleys and street corners by providing them with
playgrounds, reading rooms, game rooms, and
other recreational activities furnishing an outlet
for their exuberance is a duty imposed on all
American citizens.”——Ant/zony Abbott. I

“Recreations in which more persons than one
take part are far superior in this respectto those
of a solitary nature.”———Fisher and Fisk in How
to Live.

“The drama is a medium through which Ameri .
must inevitably express its highest idealsf When l
it can be used to get pe0p1e to express themselves
in order that they may build up a bigger and
better community life, it will have performed a real
service to society.”~——Alfred G. Arnold.

“We need a wide range of new and differen ‘
skills. Without skills there is no savor in life.”
From Girl Scout Leader.

“My definition of a hobby is what you woul
be doing if you didn’t have to work for a livin
A hobby represents a philosophy of life. It ca .
be the thing that makes life worth living.”—Fre.
.8. Barton in Music as a Hobby. '

“Play and art reflect the values of the civiliza
tions that gave them birth, and the art is great a
in proportion to the human rightness of these

values.”—'-Rnth Cliorpenning Norris. .

. RECREATION

 Recreational Leadership Class 

HE INFLUENCE OF WAR was felt immediately
Tupon all recreation work. The trained leaders
. were called into the armed forces and in the
fields of recreation in the USO and Red Cross;
women were working and leaving vei‘y young chil-
dren to be cared for in recreation as well as in day—
care centers. Leaders were needed by the dozens,
and agencies'had no way of filling the vacancies;
those which were usually averse to volunteer and
untrained assistants were clamoring for help. In
the vicinity of St. Louis, eight hundred adult vol-
unteers were trained in the spring of 1942; still the
supply was not adequate for the demand. The
solution seemed to be to step down the age of the
assistants and to use high
school students. It was realized,
of course, that these students
would need some training and
that they would only be used
as volunteers and under adult
guidance.

In University City, a suburb
of St. Louis, the University
City Senior High School. was
organizing its fall program
with its first objective, “Win—-

ining the War.” Meteorology,
“aeronautics, navigation, refresher mathematics,
, l fundamentals of electricity, and five periods a
1 Week of physical education were in the offing. The
IVictory Corps program suggested community
service as a phase of war work; so with this objec-
tive and the need for helpers in the field of rec-
reation in mind, a course in
recreational leadership was
ladded to the roster.

 

Organization and
Purpose

The course was
made a semester
course, meeting five
days a week. The
students enrolling
were told that in ad-
dition to this school
time they would be
required to give the
equivalent of three
hours service in com—

OCTOBER 1944

In an article which appeared in the
November I943 issue of The Journal
of Health and Physical Education,
Miss Manley. who is associated with
the public schools of University City.
Missouri. tells how a high school in
a suburb of St. Louis took steps to
help meet 'the shortage in leaders
by establishing a recreational lead-
ership class. Through the courtesy
of The Journal and of the author
the article is reprinted here.

The handcratts unit and the dramatics
department joined forces to give a
puppet show for the elementary school

 

ina

Public High School

By HELEN MANLEY

munity recreation. The State Department of Edu-
cation was consulted; a half unit credit was given
for this course as for a semester in English or
mathematics. Juniors and seniors were eligible to
take the course.

The purpose of “the course
was as follows:

I. To acquaint the students
with the recreational facilities
in the St. Louis area

2. To develop in these boys
and girls a knowledge of the
basic skills in forms of recrea-
tion that would not require
techniques beyond their abili—
ties, arid the possibilities of
the course

3. To give them theories and ideals of leadership

4. To give them opportunities to work in one of
the recreational agencies on a volunteer basis

5. To help meet the demand for helpers in the
field of recreation

6. To encourage in young people a realization
of the need for recreation and
recreational .leaders in this
vicinity

General Procedure

The first class en-
rolled numbered
twenty—seven: six-
teen girls and eleven
boys. The second
class, which enrolled
in February, 1943,
was the maximum
size and had sixteen
girls and twenty boys.
The class was organ—
ized and administered

363

364 A RECREATIONAL LEADERSHlP CLASS 1N  PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL

 

There's square dancing. of course,
in Jthe social recreation program

through the physical education department, but
other departments were invited to help in the
teaching. Experts in the field of recreation in
the St. Louis area were called upon to give talks
and demonstrations, and frequent visits were made
to the various agencies to see “recreation at '
work.”

The course of study of the training was as
follows:

A. THEORY (in relation to activity) :

1. Qualities of a leader

2. Standards of leadership

3. Characteristics (physical, mental, social) and
interests of children at various age levels,
aduks

4. Fundamentals of teaching activities

5. Organization and administration of various
recreation programs

1:. GAMES:
1. How to teach
2. Kinds as to organization, and as to use
3. Practice in playing and teaching games of all
kinds for all age levels

C. RHYTHM :
I. Group singing and practice in leading rounds,

songs around campfire, motion songs
2. Singing games, folk games, square dancing
D. PLANNING AND CONDUCTING PARTY PROGRAMS
E. STORYTELLING AND DRAMATICS
F. HANDICRAFTZ

I. Projects with limited cost—paper, wood,
weaving, natural materials (shells, nuts,'etc.)

2. Puppetry—-dramatics are tied in here
with making puppets
3. Making play games

G. NATURE STUDY AND CAMPING:
I. Hikes, an overnight camping trip
2. Planning outdoor activities for differ-
ent age levels

H. COMMUNITY WORK.
The theory phase of the work consumed
about one—fourth of the time, but was pre-
' sented in connection with the activity. After
discussing and reading about the qualities of
a leader, and hearing those who were using
volunteer leaders, telling them what they
considered qualities of leadership,- the class
visited recreation centers and observed the
personnel in action.

Teachers of children at different age levels in l

the elementary school across the street supple-
mented the class study of characteristics of chil—
dren by talks and by showing these high school
students the younger children in action. The pupils
in the junior high school a block away were also
observed in their play.

Members of the class not only learned the theory
of how to teach games, the types to use on various
occasions, and similar techniques, etc., but they
practiced and learned these games themselves,
took turns in teaching them to their group and
then to the age levels at which they were appro-
priate. They learned techniques of officiating,
planning tournaments, and then practiced in the
elementary, unior and senior high schools.

This same procedure was used in other phases
of the program. The handicraft unit was taught
by a member of the high school physical education .
department who had had much experience in this I
field. The class made articles for the Red Cross,
learned the use of salvage materials, made pup-
pets and climaxed this unit jointly with the dra-
matics department by giving a puppet show for the
elementary school. A member of the English de-
partment assisted with the storytelling teaching,
and the elementary school children were very will-
ing listeners.

V arious"recreation programs were planned and
administered by the class. A party for the faculty
of the school system was planned. The group
consisted of about three hundred people. The class
planned the entire program which consisted of
mixers, square dancing, social dancing, games, and
community singing. Mixers, community singing,

RECREATION

A RECREATIONAL LEADERSHIP CLASS INA PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL 365

and square dancing had had a part in the teaching
program and some study had been made of adult
interests and characteristics. The music depart-
ment and the teacher of dance had helped in the
work.

Each class also planned an “All—School Party”

(student enrollment was 1,000). The first class
called their party a “Pep Shin-Dig” ; they started

an innovation of thus honoring the football squad. ‘

The boys’ teams at this school are “Indians,” so it
was quite appropriate, though new, to have the
varsity letters presented at a campfire. After a few
Indian dances, cheers and shouts, the group went
to the gymnasium for mixers, square dancing, and
social dancing. The second class called their party
a “Hick Hop”; the name suggests the type of
party. In addition to the activities of the first
party, there were floor shows, a slide, and a few
carnival-type concessions.

‘ The nature study and camping unit was taught
by a leader who had had a background of scout—
ing. The classes went on several different types of
hikes, and an overnight camping trip. Many of
these city youths had never been camping, never
had slept in the open, and only knew outdoor cook-
ing with a car full of equipment brought to a park
oven which had the fire all laid. The class also had
the experience of planning hikes for different age
levels, and different available facilities.

Perhaps the most interesting and worth—while
phase of the course was the community work. The
Social Planning Council of Greater St. Louis in-
terviewed scientifically each member of the class.
Members of the Council talked to the class, ex-
plained the work of the Council and the worksof
the various agencies of the Council. This was sup-
plemented by talks by representatives of
agencies which were in need of volunteer
help. _Each pupil was placed in an agency
according to his available time, his interests,
and the community needs. Here the students
worked at least an afternoon, an evening, or
a Saturday morning each week under the
guidance of the trained recreation leaders.
Many students gave more than the required
time, and others carried on the work 'after the
class terminated. Instructors of this course
kept in contact with the students’ community
work by visits to the agencies and by reports
through the Social Planning Council. Each
week, time was taken in class period at school
to discuss the problems of the workers and
to help them solve them. They would ask

OCTOBER 1944

other members of the class what they did at their

agency, and each student had a great deal of pride
in belonging to a group. The boys and girls were
helping in Jewish Welfare, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A.,
H.A, Catholic Welfare, Boys’ Clubs, orphanages,
USO, and other private agencies.

A constant effort was made to make the class
practical, and to give the members real experi-
ences. Besides visiting and taking part in a great
variety of recreational activities, each classroom
quizvincluded some creative and emergency ques~
tions such as:

1. One hundred twelve-year-old children are
gathered in the stadium for a play day. It rains.
Plan a treasure hunt, using only the gymnasium
and halls.

2. A Red Cross drive is being staged; your
agency 'wishes to impress the patrons of this move—
ment. In skeleton form, outline a little play for
the group you are teaching' (they were working
with various age levels) to dramatize this.

3. Your recreation center is giving a St. Patrick’s
Day party for the early adolescent, II'—I4. Work
out the following:

(a) An invitation in jingle
(b) An appropriate mixing game
(c) An appropriate party game

The class is embryonic, and as time progresses,
mistakes will be corrected. In a public school sys-
tem, individuals will, of course, be in this class who
have very little potential leadership. A willingness
to serve and a loyalty to community welfare, how-

( Continued on page 3637)

A variety of types of hikes and an
overnight camping trip were enioyed

 

The Story of a Recreation Convert

HIS IS THE STORY of a convert — a recreation
I convert—and how his vigorous leadership 1n

opposition to a public schools building pro-
gram which incorporated many innovations in rec-
reation backfired, by reason of that conversion, to
give a municipality an athletic field comparable to

the finest. .

The story had its beginning nearly two decades
ago, about the time the late John W. Bailey, the
recreation convert, was inducted into office as
Mayor of Battle Creek, Michigan, for the fourth
time in May 1926.

John Bailey was a vigorous man. He was a
man of determination; set in his ways; unswayed
by public opinion or the trend of events. But he
was an honest, conscientious public official who,
once convinced of the error of his ways, could and
would prosecute any move or undertaking with the
same degree of enthusiasm and earnestness that
previously had characterized his opposition.

John Bailey was from the old school. His views,
particularly as regards recreation, followed the old
order. His had been the youth of the typical
American farm boy, who utilized the barn rafters
as horizontal bars; straw stacks as mats and, of
course, the “ole swimmi'n’ hole” as a bathing beach.
His father before him—and his father’s father—
had found fun no end with such homespun devices.

The rafter, the straw pile and the ole swimmin’
hole had been recreation instruments aplenty—
and costless, too—back there on the farm.

Little wonder, then, that newly-elected John W.
Bailey had firm and well-established ideas, of his
own about the expenditure of large sums of public
moneys for the “new-fangled physical education”
ideas that just about that time were. sweeping the
country.

Battle Creek always had been a front—runner in
any movement that had as a fundamental purpose
the general health and welfare of its people. For
years it had been known the world over as the
“Health City.” 1

So its civic and educational leaders had been
quick to incorporate into their planning—school
planning—instruments designed to prosecute a
vigorous physical education program—swimming
pools, gymnasiums and playgrounds.

An extensive school building-program was being

366

projected. These plans made liberal provision for
recreation activities, indoor and out.

Right into the midst of the campaign for these
improvements arrived Mayor-elect John W: Bailey,

ha vigorous opponent of what he scathingly cata—

logued “a wholesale effort to turn our splendid
institutions of learning into instruments designed
to serve a few passing whims and fancies of

fanatical reformers.”

John W. Bailey definitely was an “anti—recrea—
tionist”—and how!

Some fourteen years prior to that May day in
1926, another son of the soil had come out of the
hills of Kentucky to work in'the public school
system of Battle Creek. Arch R. Flannery be—
lieved, heart and soul, in the advantages of a well-
balanced recreation diet as a necessary and essen-
tial factor in any modern educational plan — just
as vital in the new scheme of things as readin’,
’riting, and ’rithmetic. His ideas took firm root
in the new Battle Creek soil, too; they spread from
school to school and from school to industry;
from industry into the home. Soon he was pioneer-
ing a general public recreation program for the
plant worker, the housewife.

Time passed, and recreation continued to grow
and spread. BusineSs and civic leaders, industrial
heads, members of the clergy all became interested.
So the Battle Creek Civic Recreation Association
was born—in 192I, with membership open to
every man, woman and child of the area—-on the
basis of a $1 annual fee. By the end of 1923 it was
a flourishing, healthy organization of 1.000 paid-up
members. '

All money collected was diverted into the pur-
chase of equipment and the conduct of tourna-
ments, first basketball and then baseball. All lead-
ership, direction and supervision continued on a
voluntary basis.

In the spring of 1924 recreation had assumed
such proportions and had become such a well-
established, integral part of community life that
leaders of the association went before the City
Commission and, for the first time in the city’s
history, obtained an appropriation for recreation.
It was only $1,000, but it was a start, thought the
members. ‘

RECREATION

 

THE STORY OF A RECREATION CONVERT 507

Added to this governmental sum were the mem-
bership dues collected by the association, which by
this time had set up rules governing organized
play at basketball, baseball, tennis, golf, and other
sports. All players were required to hold associa-
' tion memberships at the customary $I per year fee
to participate in the different events (one fee
covered 5'11 events). Too, team entrance fees were
fixed at $15 for baseball and $10 for basketball.
Thus organization revenue attained proportions
that permitted limited development of recreation
facilities—the purchase of a piece of playground
equipment here, the improvement of a baseball
field there. There still were no paid employees.

Recreation continued to prosper, not only as a
component part of the educational curriculum but
as a vehicle of public welfare. The burdens devolv-
ing upon the few volunteers became increasingly
‘heavy. So again, in the spring of-.-1925, recreation
officials went before the City Commission and
again an appropriation of $1,000 was set aside for
the conduct of the civic program.

Came the Spring of 1926 and a city election that
seated John W. Bailey as Mayor, among other
newly—elected members of the city governing body.

Recreation had become a new phase of govern~
mental activity since John Bailey had completed
his first .three terms as Mayor of Battle Creek in
the spring of 1915. But even ‘before his induction
into office he had become an outspoken opponent—
a bitter ~Jioe—of the proposed school building pro-
g r a m a n d t h e
scheme to incor-
porate modern rec-
reation facilities
into those plans.

Nothing daunted,
Arch Flannery
made a first, a
“feel-out” pil-
grimage to the law
0 ffi c e 0 f I 0 h n
Bailey, well-steel-
ed for the stern
refusals he knew
would greet his
request for city
recreation funds.
He asked, not for
$1,000, but for
$2,000. When he
emerged from the

OCTOBER 1944

office ten minutes later with the Mayor’s stinging
rebuke ringing in his ears, he was convinced that
here was a job to be done—a big job, one which
would have to be approached tactfully.

As head of the school physical education depart-
ment, he first gained the confidence of the Mayor’s
student sons. He personally supervised the boys
at play and in athletics. They developed rapidly.
Soon they were members of school athletic teams.
One was particularly skillful. He won a place on
the high school basketball team, and largely through
his play the team gained district honors. It went
to the state regional tournament in a near-by city.

The time was propitious, thought Mr. Flannery,
to drive home his opening wedge.

After much urging he prevailed upon the Mayor
to accoinpany him to the neighboring city to watch
the tournament game. It was a torrid battle-——
one of those seesaw affairs where the lead changes
hand every time a basket is made. Almost from
the opening whistle the fans were on their feet;'
that is, most of the fans. His Honor, the Mayor
of Battle Creek, maintained the dignity of his
office and his personal decorum—for a time. But
not for long. Before the first quarter had ended,
Mayor Bailey literally was climbing over the backs
of those in front of him. The circus seats sagged
under his weight as he bounced up and down; his
resounding shouts reverberated through the hall,

He was once opposed to recreation.
but nowBaHle Creek has a recrea-
tion park which bears his name

 

368 THE STORY OF A RECREATION CONVERT

drowning out all others. His whistles were louder

than those of any undergraduate within earshot.
Thirty minutes later—when the game was over

—-Mayor Bailey slumped exhausted, speechless,

to his seat.

That fall the Mayor’s son won a place on the
school football team. But school football fields in

Battle Creek then were only makeshift affairs—an
unused corner lot or an unsodded baseball field.
These points were painstakingly, though of course
casually, called to the Mayor’s attention on an
occasion when Mr. Flannery “chanced” to meet
with him as he was heading home late one after-
noon. In some manner the two eventually found
themselves on the sidelines of one of those im-
provised practice gridirons, watching the boys go
through their paces.

Hardly had they arrived when one of the boys—
the Mayor’s son it chanced to be—came limping
off the field on an injured ankle, suffered when he
stepped into one of the countless holes that pock-
marked the weedy, rough surface.

“Why is it our boys have to play on such bone-
breaking fields?” half-angrily the Mayor asked.
The “campaign” was progressing—thanks to the
fates.

Two weeks later, Mayor Bailey introduced be-
fore the city commission a resolution asking a
$2,000 recreation appropriation. Some opposition
developed. Mayor Bailey made an impassioned
fifteen-minute plea. “It’s little enough when so
much is needed,” he concluded. The motion car—
ried.

The next night he went before the school board
and expressed his wholehearted support for the
school building program with its liberal provisions
for playgrounds, swimming pools and gymnasiums.

For some months, even years, Recreation Di-
rector Flannery had envisioned a great civic rec—
reation center on lands bordering the corporate
limits of Battle Creek to the north—lands of suf—
ficient acreage to permit the kind of development
that would satisfy every recreation need of the
city for many years to come. So he consulted his
friend and neighbor, T. Clifton Shepherd, archi—
tect, landscape gardener, and recreation enthusiast
—foremost disciple of his recreation center plan.

Two. weeks later there appeared upon the
Mayor’s desk an architect’s drawing of a modern
recreation field, complete to the most minute detail.

“Boys, it certainly looks good, but I’m inclined

to the belief that you boys are opportunists,” the
Mayor opined. “Where’s the land—and the money

,——to come from?” he asked, evincing just a wee

bit of interest.

That was enough to start an exhaustive search
of the records in an effort to trace ownership of
the wanted acres, abutting property acquired some
years previously by the city and originally in—
tended for water works development purposes.

Trail of that search led back to the office of
Mayor John W. Bailey. The property in question
was part and parcel of an estate being adminis-
tered by John W. Bailey as an attorney-at-law,
representing heirs of the late Chapey G. Convis.
Mayor Bailey’s interest in the project’s develop-
ment registered a substantial gain.

Next came a little question .of finances. The plan
embraced an estimated over-all outlay running into
hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Mayor Bailey was notoriously “Scotch” in his
handling of public moneys; he would reluctantly
lend his support to the expenditure of a dollar
from the city treasury only if and when he could
foresee eight or ten dollars of public good accruing
therefrom. So a new frontal attack had to be de-
veloped for the recreation center project.

After consultation with some interested civic
leaders, the following approach was suggested:
Theacity, acquiring title to the desired acreage,
would itself undertake its development piecemeal,
if and when funds might become available.

The Mayor again received some visitogs. “You
fellows just won’t take no for an answer,” he
countered after they had explained the purpose of
their mission. Two weeks later, on motion of the
Mayor, the'City Commission unanimously voted
to purchase the Convis estate acreage at a nominal
sum. Street and Park Department heads Were di-
rected to dispatch all work-free men to the site to
start grading operations.»

Week by week, month by month, the work
dragged tediously on. Much of the acreage ad-
joining the Battle Creek stream was marsh land
and had to be drained and tilled before it could be
built up to solid foundation. Elsewhere, it had to
be cut down and leveled.

By early spring of 1929, the tract was ready for
first permanent improvements. Three months later
the first of six projected regulation baseball 'dia-
monds was opened for play. One of the biggest
crowds in the history of sports in Battle Creek
was on hand when the ball field was dedicated in

(Continued on page 384)

RECREATION

‘entertain a new idea,

Can

N A RECENT VOLUME

I on education an Eng-
lish schoolmaster

posed three questions as
the test of an educated
person:

Can you entertain a
new idea?

Can you entertain an-
other person?

Can you entertain
yourself ?

If, he. says, you can

you are in pursuit of
truth. If you can enter-
tain another person, you
are in pursuit of good—
ness. If you can enter-
tain yourself, you are in
pursuit of beauty.

Can you entertain
yourself? This is not an im-
pertinent, frivolous question but
a serious one. Can you? Can .
you have a good time without
your friends and without a radio? Do you enjoy
being alone? Do your good times depend on the
people and things around you? Can you stay in
control of yourself no matter what your environ—
ment, or are you only the victim of time and place
and what they have to offer? These questions,
which are important at all times, are even more
important in wartime, for they stress the point
that we need the Humanities to win the war, in
spite of the, frequently expressed opinion to the
contrary.

You may ask, “What has poetry to do with the
production line? Surely it is fantastic to claim that
art and music have anything to do with an airplane
factory. The sailor in the Fiji Islands, the soldier
in Africa need food and am-
munition, and our first duty
is to supply them. Let the
music and art and literature
wait until the war is over.
The values of the Humanities
are, we admit, very choice and

OCTOBER 1944

By LOUISE DUDLEY

 

Do you enjoy being alone, or do
your good times depend on the
people and things around you?

This articlel originally published in the
November I943 issue of The Journal of
the National Education Association,
is reprinted by permission. The author is
Head of the Department of Humanities
at Stephens College, Columbia, Missouri.

You Entertain Yourself?

precious. They are
among the values of
democratic life, the
values for which we are
fighting, but they do not
help us win the war.
Therefore, we will put
them away with our
evening clothes and
sport shoes, to get them
out when more peaceful
days return. Now we
must strip for action.
How can anyone claim
that art and music,
drama and literature are
important, much less \es-
sential ?” i

Let us consider a few
cases: Bob sailed this
week from San Fran-
cisco, presumably on
convoy duty. We don’t know
where he is going, but we sup—
pose it is Australia. How long
A will the trip take? Three weeks?
Five weeks? Or longer? He has never been to
sea before. Probably the first trip will be excit—
ing. But how about the second? Third? Fourth?
Before long his duties will be largely a matter
of routine._ And ‘the job will last a long time.
There will be hours on hours when he is not
even on duty. The same is true of the soldiers
wherever they are, whether in Iceland, Ireland, or
training camps in this country.

Nor is it just a problem for men in the armed
forces. If anything, their situation is better than
that of civilians. Not long ago I had a letter from
a friend in a Canadian town where there are many
defense industries. Most of the workers have
brought their wives, and as my friend said, they
have more money and live in
greater ease than they have
ever known in their lives, but
they are cross, bored, and dis-
satisfied. They have looked
only to the movies for enter—

(Continued on page 387)

Print by Gedge Harmon

3! if)

u‘ l. i i” i
‘ 1‘ i ‘t
.04“? ,_ .’y’@¥

 

hoto by Reynold E. Carlson

Photographing the Birds

some of those fine close—up
shots of wild birds and mam-
mals were made. They look as though the pho—
tographer had approached within a few feet, and
you know how difficult it is for a person to get
close to even the tame birds and mammals of our
city parks. Probably these remarkable pictures
were taken by placing the camera on a fixed sup—
port, pre-focusing it upon a likely spot, such as a
perching limb or a feeding table', and tripping the
shutter through some string or wire], arrangement
from a distant spot. Such a contrivance is not
difficult to make. Time, patience, and some me-
chanical ingenuity will produce excellent pictures.
The first step in securing good pictures is to
attract birds in such numbers as to assure reason—
able probabilities of getting pictures at a given
spot. Securing a visiting bird population requires
regular feeding over an extended period of time.
If food and water are consistently provided and
cats kept away, certain birds will begin to make
regular visits. After a period of weeks of feed-
ing the observer learns what birds may be ex—
pected, where they perch while waiting for other
birds to finishing feeding, and how they approach
the feeding table or water. He may also determine
desirable angles from which to photograph.

YOU’VE OFTEN wondered how

370

By REYNOLD E. CARLSON
National Recreation Association

Once birds are coming regu-
larly and their movement pat—
terns are discovered, the camera
may be placed and focused on a likely spot with
the remote control attachment ready for pictures.
In setting the camera it is well to consider the
background. Bad backgrounds spoil the majority
of otherwise good bird shots. If the feeding table
is in sunshine and the background in shade, there
will be a desirable contrasting dark background.
Mottled backgrounds are generally bad and are the
result of mixed sunlight and shade. A low angle
may give a sky background. generally light in
color. A yellow filter will soften the sky and give
a better picture. Backgrounds may be blurred by
setting the camera with a wide aperture and high
speed. Such blurred backgrounds help focus at-
tention on the bird, which after all should be the
center of attention.

The simplest remote—control device is the ex-
tension cable release. These cables come in lengths
of a few feet up to twenty—six feet. The longer
cables are difficult to find and require a great deal
of careful handling to prevent kinking. They are
also rather expensive. Even the 26-foot cable is in
some cases not sufficiently long so that the pho-
tographer can hide far enough from the camera.

(Continual on page 385)

RECREATION

 

Speech Classes Are More Interesting Now!

H I In; JOE, are you taking

speech?”

“Yes, anything to
get out of that world lit.
course. Nothing could be as
tough as that. Gonna join us,
Bill ?”

“No, I guess I might as
well try world lit. It may
be tough, but nothing’s worse
than sitting and listening to
dumb speeches every day.”

I couldn’t help overhearing
these remarks as I passed '
~ through the study hall to my
room on registration day. I
was a newlteacher, not yet
noticed by the student body.
“So people are signing up for
my course to get out of world literature,” I thought.
“And one boy has the nerve to say that he’d rather
take world literature than any course as monoto-
nous as speech !”

The rest of the morning my thoughts drifted
back to that conversation, and I wondered what
could be done'in speech class to make it a chal-
lenge to the student and not a “cinch” course to
the football team’s “deadbeats.”(It isn’t a problem
to be solved in one day, in one week, or even
one month.)

The following day the classes met and I waited
with apprehension for the first gathering of the
speech class. Just as I had feared, I had the foot-
ball team in full force! Out of twenty-five pupils,
I had three in the class with average scholarship.
and one with above average scholarship. That one
was a speech defective and was the only one in the
entire class who had enrolled in the speech class
for the purpose of developing his speaking ability!

It is my firm conviction that speech cannot be
taught adequately in a.formal classroom. It can-
not be learned from a textbook. In the average
speech classroom the student is required to give
speeches two, three, or more times a week. The
audience seldom varies. In time, the class becomes
indifferent, yes, bored, with every speaker. No
wonder some boys and girls would rather take a
tougher course than speech!

In my effort to put life into the course I have

OCTOBER 1944

By JUNE PERRYMAN
Coldwater High School
Coldwater, Michigan

 

There's a definite reason why the at-
tendance at the speech classes at Cold-
water High School has grown' and why
the pupils are finding the courses not
only interesting but good fun as well!

At a time when boys and girls are
taking a very active part in campaigns
of various kindsI and are becoming in-
creasingly aware of their responsibility
to their community' Miss Perryman's ar-
ticle has much to offer not only teachers
but recreation workers seeking to de-
velop leadership qualities in children.

 

developed a program in which
the first assignment is a gad-
get talk. Each boy and girl
is asked to bring in some
simple gadget to dismantle
before the class as he talks
on its use and construction.
This assignment has a pur-
pose. It serves to give the
speaker something to do with
his hands in his first formal
audience contact. In most
cases, the student is so con-
cerned screwing or unscrew-
ing the several parts of the
gadget that he is totally un-
aware of his uneasiness be-
fore the class. I

Sales Talks and Job Interviews

Another assignment that I make early in the
year is a sales talk. The boys and girls are asked
to bring in some little-known product. A member
of the class acts as a housewife, and the other
pupils take turns in approaching the customer and
making the sale. This assignment encourages a
discussion of manners both on the part of the
housewife and canvasser. The members of the
class soon learn that it is the agent who makes you
want to buy the article rather than the agent who
talks you into buying it who is the better salesman.

From sales talks we go into job interviews, for
strange as it may seem to most individuals, selling
himself to a prospective employer is not much
different from selling a Hoover vacuum to a
prospective bride! From job interviews we drift
into business interviews and we discuss the various
merchants and businessmen in town. The mem-
bers of the class are asked to observe outstanding
individuals in town, and in class we discuss the
qualities that seem to contribute to their success
in business. In almost every case, good speech
is observed as an outstanding factor. '

A Style Show-

Each year the class organizes and stages a style
show. Each local merchant is approached, told of
the show, and asked to participate. He is also
asked for suggestions regarding the management

371

372 SPEECH CLASSES ARE MORE INTERESTING NOW! ,

of the show. One class member follows through
each interview with the same merchant, and in the
two or three weeks necessary for the organization
of the style show the speech student interviews a
businessman, sells an idea, associates the school
with the local merchants, and exchanges ideas.
The style show itself is carried on—that is, or-

ganized, planned, and prepared—by speech class.

members. Since all speech class members haven’t
perfect forms, it is usually necessary to solicit

models.

Storytelling

There is another field open to the speech student.
That is, the opportunities 1n storytelling. Almost
every grade teacher welcomes a visiting story-
teller. The Day Nursery has never refused a story-
teller, and in most towns the library is more than
willing to c00perate with the school in sponsoring
a short storytelling hour. Last year, in our
community, during the spring speech term we car-
ried on a short storytelling hour every Saturday
for a period of ten weeks as an experiment. The
local paper publicized the idea and that first Sat-
urday we met with three storytellers and nineteen
of the most attentive little boys and girls to be
found. The interest on the part of the youngsters
was so great that our enrollment in the short
storytelling hour steadily increased until on the
last Saturday we met -we had over forty young-

sters present.

When we ran out of ideas for stories the chil-
dren picked out books they wanted to hear. Chairs
were arranged ina corner of the library and the
little “tykes” sat on the edge of their chairs while
the speech class student members told of “The
Little Red Hen,” “Bambi,” “Little Black Sambo,”
and many other children’s favorites. The average
class member soon learns that animation enhances
his story, and without any special coaching from
the speech teacher learns to use the facial and
body gestures so frequently “harped” on by speech
teachers.

Not all boys and girls in the class were qualified
to hold the interest of the type of group that as-
sembled on Saturdays. To those speakers of less
ability we extended the invitation to speak before
kindergarten, and' in first and second grade rooms
in the presence of the grade teacher. These teach-
ers were asked to grade the speaker on voice, ani-
mation, interest created, and other subjects cov-
ering the various mechanics of speech. Sometimes

the grade teachers had the children criticize the
storyteller. This helped the speech student im-
mensely. '

Talking for Victory!

Within the last two years there has been a new
field of speech open to any alert teacher in our
state. I refer to the Victory Speakers’ Bureau
under the direction of Paul Bagwell of Michigan
State College. Last year, under the program set
up by Michigan State College, the best students of
the class were sent out before the Rotarians,
Kiwanis Club, church organizations, and the many
other social and civic organizations of our small
town. These boys and girls discussed everything
from air raid warden activities to victory gardens.
The clubs stated the topics they wished discussed,
the sghool furnishedlthe speakers, and the students
did the rest.

Today there is more to talk about than there
has been in any ten-year period. Any boy or girl
who says he can’t find anything to talk about of
interest to the public is either confessing his ignor-
ance of current events or his laziness! Clubs,
churches, classrooms and all organizations today
are anxious to have the support of youth in bond
driy‘es, salvage drives, and every other campaign.
A good Speaker is more important than any other
factor in the success of such drives.

We Organize a Speech Rally

A year ago, in the spring, we received word
from the State Office of Civilian Defense that
Washington was interested in trying an experi‘
ment in a speech rally. Two towns in the state
were asked to conduct the experimental rally.
The success of these rallies would determine
whether or not Washington would sponsor a na-
tion-wide program. In cooperation with the Cold-
water Office of Civilian Defense, the high school
organized and conducted the speech rally. Mem-
bers of the Speech class engaged as guest speakers
the local chief air raid warden, head of the Farm
Bureau, county home extension agent, and the
chairman of the rally. We engaged a speaker from
the Chicago Office of Civilian Defense as guest
speaker, and obtained the use of the county build-
ing and adjacent park. The school granted the
class members permission to use the public address
system on the porch of the county building, and
from one of the teachers we secured a fifty-foot
extension which we used to illuminate the city
park and the courthouse front steps. The band

(Continued on page 388)

RECREATION

 

New York City After the War

HE CITY OF NEW YORK has a realistic program
Tof public work for postwar construction. Money
has been provided in our capital budget for
design.‘ Executives, engineers, " architects, and
draftsmen are actually making contract drawings
and specifications. Adequate safeguards have been
provided to insure a coordinated program of use-
ful and necessary works. By the middle of 1944,
projects having a total estimated construction of
over $700,000,000 will be completely designed and
ready for advertising.
The Park Department projects range in size
from large park and parkway construction jobs
costing several million dollars to small park build-

. . ings and reconstruction of park paths costing only

a few thousands. Their estimated cost aggregates
$115,093,545. All of these projects are necessary
parts of a carefully planned program of park and
parkway expansion and rehabilitation, coordinated
with other arterial improvements in the metropoli-
tan area, and with housing, school, and other con-
struction involving recreation in the broadest sense
of that word.

The Park Department’s Philosophy

Let me state briefly the philosophy of the New
York City Park Department as to postwar expan-
sion. We do not believe in revolution. The city is
not going to be torn up and rebuilt on a decen-
tralized satellite or other academic theory. There-
fore we do not have to wait for the painting of the
new, big, over-all picture constantly referred to by
revolutionary planners. \Ve believe that the older,
run-down sections of the city will be rebuilt. We
believe that there will be a much slower develop-
ment of outlying lands within the city and its
suburbs, that subway extensions will be limited,
and that efforts will be directed to making what
we have inherited more livable and attractive—as
against abandoning it, letting trade and population
drift away and continuing a trend toward suburban
dormitory living and commuting. We believe in
limited objectives—that is, in reclaiming, round-
ing out, expanding and developing what we have,
in seeing to it that recreation is provided for in
arterial, housing, school, sanitation, and other con-
struction, and not regarded as an afterthought.
Finally, we believe in adding new small parks and
playgrounds in neglected sections.

OCTOBER 1944

 

Postwar plans which are now being made
for the parks. parkwaysI and other public
works of New York City are outlined by '
Robert Moses in the December issue of
The American City. Mr. Moses speaks
not only as head of the Department of
Parks. but as a member of the state park
system and as head of the Triborough
Bridge Authority. We quote extracts tell-
ing of plans for recreational developments.

 

\Ve anticipate greatly increased interest in and
demand for public recreation after the war. This
demand will come from many sources, including
the men now in the armed services who have be-
come accustomed to strenuous exercise and out-
door life. PeOple now working in war industries
and otherwise associated with war work, who have
very little leisure time, will require more recrea-
tion. The city park system must provide for their
needs.

Beaches and Pools

\Vith the completion of various sewage—dis-
posal plants, most of the waters surrounding the
city will be clean enough for swimming, boating,
and fishing. In Jamaica Bay, a great natural rec-
reation area is being reclaimed. At Canarsie, a
one-mile beach has been designed. In the Bronx
at Ferry Point Park, and in Queens at Clearview
Park, similar beaches with all types of recreation
areas will be built. Since it is impossible to pro-
vide bathing beaches for all parts of the city, swim-
ming pools have been designed for Bronx Park
and for Dyer Beach Park in Brooklyn. In addi-
tion, at Jacob Riis Park Beach a pool is to be built
adjacent to the bathhouse.

Wherever possible, some park use of lands ac-
quired for sewage-disposal plants is agreed on
with the Department of Public Works. At Owl’s
Head Park in Brooklyn, the deck over the tanks
will be used for park and playground purposes.
At the Tallman’s Island plant in Queens, previ-
ously constructed, we now operate a Iz-acre park
built under similar circumstances.

The use of small streets and parks between 52nd
and 58th Streets along the East River Drive has

(Continued on page 389)
373

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column 01‘ Nature-Grams

NDREWS, Roy Chapman, “Under a Lucky
Star.” An autobiography. The Viking Press.

New York. 1943. 300 pp. $3. “I wanted to be
an explorer and naturalist so passionately that
anything else as a life work just never entered

my mind.”

Bears. “The Biggest Bear on Earth,” by Harold
McCracken. Frederick A. Stokes Company, New
York. 114 pp. illus. $2. A book for young people.

Biography. “Those Were the Days: Tales of a
Long Life,” by Edward Ringwood Hewitt. Duell,
Sloan & Pearce, New York. 318 pp. $3. Peter
C00per, foiunder of Cooper Union; Sir Hiram
Maxim; the first J. P. Morgan; Buffalo Bill;
Andrew Carnegie.

Birds. “A Guide to Bird Watching,” by Joseph
J. Hickey. Oxford University Press, New York.
262 pp. illus. $3.50.

Chestnuts. There is a small grove of chestnut
trees near Rosati, Missouri, without trace of the
blight. according to C. B. Michelson, agricultural
director of the Frisco Railway. The chestnuts sold
for twenty-five cents a pound.

Eskimo. “Beyond the Clapping Mountains,” by
Charles E. Gillham. Macmillan; New York. 1943.
134 pp. $1.50. Animal folk stories for children.

“Farm People. and the Land After the War”
may be secured from the National Planning Asso-
ciation, 800 213t Street, N.VV., Washington, D. C.

. Fish. “Food from the Sea: Fish and Shellhsh
of New England,” by Rachel L. Carlson. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. Conser—
vation Bulletin 33. 74 pp. illus. Ten cents.

“Garden Islands of the Great East,” by David
Fairchild. Collecting seeds
from the Philippines and
Netherland India in the junk
“Cheng Ho.” Scribner’s, New
York, 239 pp. illus. $3.75..

“Grasshopper Book,” by
\Vilfrid S. Bronson. Har-
court, Brace Company, New
York. 1943. 127 pp. $1.75. _
Suited to children.

[Malaria]. “This Is Ann-—

374

Ill believe we are on the wrong trailI
seeking to grow through many human
contacts. multifarious organizations. while
what we need most of all is to sit down
somewhere alone. in God's tirst temples
most certainly. and gain a true sense of
values while communing with kindly. soft-
spolten Mother Nature. Come. take a hilte
into the winter woods and discover what

a wonderful teacher she is."—O. Wat-
ren Smith in Musings of an Angler.

She’s Dying to Meet You.” 32 page booklet on
the anopheles mosquito. \Var Department Liaison.

U. S. Office of Education, Washington 25, D. C.

“Negro Farmers in Wartime.” U. S. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 1943.
13 pp. illus. (The Farmer and the War—6.) Five

cents.

Poultry. “Modern Poultry Farming.” Mac—
millan Company, New York. $4.

“Reptiles of Minnesota,” by W.  Brecken-
ridge. Minnesota Department of Conservation. I
State Office Building, St. Paul 1, Minnesota.

. . . . I
Conservation Bulletin 3, 24 pp. illus.

1

“Salainanders, Handbook of,” by Sherman C.
Bishop. Comstock, Ithaca, New York. 555 pp.

illus. $5.

“Science, American Women of,” by Edna Yost.

Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York. 1943.
232 pp. $2. Biography of twelve women. «

“Science ExcursionSIinto the Community,” by
George E. Pitluga. Columbia University Press,
New York. 154 pp. $1.75. A handbook for
leaders.

“Science at War,” by George W. Gray. Harper,”
New York. 296 pp. $3.

“Spiritual in life is a lot of things. When the
leader stops in the midst of the field hike to have
members listen to the tanager singing out his
heart—when club members treat their animals
with kindness—when they lay out nature trails
-—-—when they plant their gardens and dig in the
brown earth—when the club leader points out the

beauty of the wayside Howers.”—Dr. C. B. Smith
in National 4-H Club News.

“Taxidermy,” by L. L.
Pray. Macmillan, New York.
91 pp. illus. $1.49. Manual
for the amateur. -

“Waterfowl in Iowa,” by
J. \V. and M. R. Musgrove.
State Conservation Commis—
sion, Des Moines, Iowa. 1943.
122 pp. 8 color plates. $1.

RECREATION '

 

WORLD .AT... PLAY

 

Manhasset Sponsors
Pet Show

MORE than 2,000 peo—
ple were on hand to
view the 300 entries
in the first annual pet
show held last spring in Manhasset, Long Island.
Sponsored by the Community Recreation Commis—
sion in the town’s Memorial Field, the pet show
included dogs, snakes, baby goats, cats, turtles, a
baby alligator, and ducks—just like the one pic-
tured above being fed by a young lady at the show.
Prizes and ribbons were awarded on the basis of
“the most interesting animal,” “the animal who
could perform the most tricks,” etc.

“CULTURAL Service
Cars” are a familiar
feature of life on the

Soviet front. The crew
of each car includes the “manager,” a lecturer,

cinema operator, and driver. The equipment con—

“Cultural Service Cars”
at the Russian FrOnt

. sists of a traveling motion picture outfit, a varied

stock of films, a victrola with a loudspeaker, and
a large selection of records. One member of each
crew is a skilled photographer who takes pictures
of outstanding soldiers as the car tours the front—
line zone.

The company librarians circulate books at all

OCTOBER 1944 ,

Photo by Gordon K. Smith, Manhasset, L. 1.

stops while the chief of the car ar—
ranges a photo (liSplay and dis-
tributes leafiets. Films and lec-
tures on the international situa-
tion, on home affairs, or on the

situation at the front are featured.
-—From the ALA. Bulletin.

Sterling Field—A Living
War Memorial

%

THE Department of Recreation
reports that Sterling Field was
the name officially given by the
Town Council of \Nest Hartford.
Connecticut, to the new athletic
field adjacent to the Charter Oak
School. This field was named in
honor of the late Lieutenant Gor-
don H. Sterling, Jr., whose plane
was shot down at Pearl Harbor.
Lieutenant Sterling was the first \Vest Hartford
boy to be killed in this war. '

 

WHEN The Philadel—

pl: 1'0: Inquirer asked the
I average citizen for his

ideas of postwar im—
provements, thousands of letters poured into the
newspaper’s office. High on the list of suggestions
were better water supply and sewage disposal,
more street signs and lights, cleaner streets, im—
proved train service, a city college, and more
playgrounds. The Inquirer offered $10 for each of
the six to eight letters a day printed over a period
of two weeks.

Philadelphia Offers
Postwar Suggestions

35
IN AN artlcle under

this title in the March—
April 1944 issue of
The Conservation Vol—
unteer, official bulletin of the Minnesota Depart-
ment of Conservation, Richard  Dorer makes a
plea for well-supervised forests as living memori—
als. To quote from his article:

“Under the management of competent foresters,
these living patches of green soon would dot the
countryside. As growth proceeded. erosion would

375

Living Memorials
This Time

376 WORLD AT PLA Y

With the

ARMY

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every lighting
front; in every branch of the service.

The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggleis brought

to a successful conclusion.

*
*

 

be arrested and the residue of vegetation would
coat the forest’s floor as the initial step in the long
process of rebuilding priceless top soil. Wildlife
species, which found the new habitat to their lik-
ing, would reappear. And, eventually, each of these
areas would become an outdoor recreational and
educational center, with unlimited opportunities
for camping, tramping and exploring the wonders
of Nature away from the humdrum of industry
and the routine tasks of everyday life.”

Second Drama Contest Announced—In the
July issue of RECREATION we carried a note about
the contest conducted by the National Thespian
Society for the best papers outlining a postwar
program for the educational theater for children
and young people. The Society also announces a
contest for the ten best original one-act plays for
young people which strengthen and preserve the
democratic way of life. This contest will end
January I, 1945. Further information may be
secured from the National Thespian Society, Col—
lege Hill Station, Cincinnati 24, Ohio.

Newburgh Lions Club a Friend of Recrea-
tion—*For twenty years the Lions Club of New—

burgh, New York, has been active in providing
community recreation facilities and services. In
1923, the year it was organized, it started a proj-
ect for the establishment of a playground in the
north end section of the city. Since then there
have followed- a number of other projects includ~
ing the Annie Delano" Hitch Memorial Swimming
Pool, a park shelter house, sled slide and a skaters’
field house. At present the Club is raising funds
to help in the acquisition of additional land for
Algonquin' Park. The projects on which the Lions
Club cooperated have an estimated capital value
of $100,000, of which the Club raised and c011—

tributed about $40,000.

Alton Pays Tribute—The Alton, Illinois,
Recreation Commission paid special tribute last
spring to Lewis R. Mohler, one of its members.
Mr. Mohler, who has been a member of the Rec-
reation Commission for eight years, has never
missed one of its meetings. At one time he drove
125 miles to get back to the city to be sure to be
present at a meeting.

The members of the Alton Commission have a
proud record of the number of years of continuous
service. One member has served continuously for
thirteen years; another for eleven; and a third for
ten. Mr. Mohler is next, with eight years of ser-
vice; the newest member having served for a

three year period.

High School Youth Diagnoses Itself—The
Director of Religious Education of a Denver,
Colorado, church quizzed the high school youth of
his church one Sunday morning to determine in
what way conditions at their schools are different
than they were a year ago. The youth of one -
school said there is more dating as there is more
money for dates and youth feel older; much more
smoking and drinking, on and off school grounds,
because of a desire to show off, to copy older
youth, and because of a change in the community
itself due to war salaries; much foolish spending
as many previously never had any money; and
“getting away with murder” in class and study
hours. Others corroborated these statements, the
students of only one school testifying that the
changes were slight.

Adaptation to Community Needs—Several
studies have been made of the building practices
that have been followed with reference to com-
munity use of school buildings. All types of build—
ings included in the Postwar Building Program

C» RECREATION

Sand,_cinders, decomposed granite, gravel, cement, asphalt
-— and now, coral —are a few of the sharp surfaces that kill
athletic ball covers . . . that's where Voit Balls are in demand!

 

WHERE THE SERVICE IS MOST RUGGED
. . .THERE YOU’LL FIND VOIT.’

 

On every fighting front, and especially on Balls, and Water Polo Balls outwear all
the Central Pacific atolls where the coral is other balls. That’s why most of Voit’s out-
so jagged it tears tough tank treads to put is going overseas, why only a limited
shreds, Voit is the ball most in demand by supply is available for essential civilian use.

our fighting men. On these rugged surfaces
which quickly chew up athletic ball covers,

Voit Syntlletic-Rubber-Covered Basketballs,  SYMHEth-RUBBER-COVERED

Footballs, Soccer Balls, Volley Balls, Soft ATHLENC EQU'PMENT
Mfgd. by“ W. J. Voit Rubber Corp" _

1600 E. 25th St., Los Angeles it, Calif.

Chicago chll‘ld'l' 180 No. Wacker Drives-Zone 6

     

BUY WAR BONDS REGULARLY

OCTOBER 1944 377

 

378 AMERICAN EDUCATION WEEK

9hr (Vocational guidance
SUCCESS MONOGRAPHS

The authentic answers to questions teen-age boys
and girls are asking about their careers. Helpful
data, accurate facts, practical suggestions. Designed
and styled to meet the reading interests of boys
and girls of high school age, SUCCESS
MONOGRAPHS can also be used profitably by

vocational guidance directors as reference material.

0 Rehabilitation counselors find that
SUCCESS MONOGRAPHS are iust
the thing to put into the hands of
returning service men and women.

. 60 TITLES

Covering a wide variety of professions, trades,
careers.

Send for a descriptive folder
listing all titles

MORGAN - DILLON (S COMPANY

Dept. R

4616 N. CLARK STREET. CHICAGO 40. ILL.

are now being planned with great emphasis upon
the contribution which the school building can
make to community life in general. Auditoriums.
gymnasiums, libraries and other special rooms are
being located and so planned that they may serve
the community outside of the regular day school
hours and so that they may be cut off for heating
and lighting service without necessitating serving
the entire building at one time—From All the
Children, 44th Report of the Superintendent of
Schools, New York City.

Kewanee, Illinois, Votes Special Recreation
Tax——By a vote of 3% to I, the citizens of
Kewanee, Illinois, voted a special recreation tax of
one mill submitted to the voters by the Kewanee
Park District.  J. Graham, President of the
Park District, expressed the District’s satisfaction
at the result of the election, particularly as it was
held in March when income taxes were due and at

about the time that local personal and real estate
taxes had to be paid.

Recreation Budget Increased in Decatur—
Decatur, Illinois, in the last ten years has in-

American Education Week

MERICAN EDUCATION WEEK will be celebrated
A this year from November 5-11, 1944. “Edu-
cation for New Tasks” will be the general theme
of the week with the following daily topics : Build-
ing Worldwide Brotherhood; \Vinning the War;
Improving Schools for Tomorrow; Developing
an Enduring Peace; 'Preparing for the New
Technology; Educating All the People; and Bet-
tering Community Life.

The National Education Association, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, N.\V., Washington 6, D. C., has
prepared materials to assist in the observance of
the week. These include a poster, 1eaflets,’a sticker,
a manual, plays, a movie trailer, radio scripts,
newspaper advertising mats, and other helps.

 

creased its recreation budget from $3,000 to
$40,000. H. Ray Myers, speaking at an Associa-
tion of Commerce anniversary dinner last spring,
predicted that the budget in the next decade would
increase to $300,000. .He pointed out that the city
needs four major,p1ayfields, ten indoor centers and
twelve lighted playgrounds.

West Hartford Outing Club—Taking ad-
vantage of extended recreation facilities offered in
the town, citizens of West Hartford, Connecticut!
recently formed an Outing Club whose purpose it
is to promote all outdoor activities and to provide
its members with pleasant, healthy, social relation-
ships throughout the year. The Club is open to
any resident of West Hartford and has three types
of memberships: family, senior, and junior. During
the winter the members are especially interested
in skiing and skating.

Secretary for the American Association of
Health, Physical Education and Recreationl
-—Dr. Ben W. ‘Miller of the University of Indianaq
has been appointed Executive-Secretary of the
American Association of Health, Physical Educa-l
tion and Recreation. Dr. Miller began his work
with the Association, which is a department of the
National Education Association, on December

15. 1943-

With the Armed Forces—Somewhere in the
Pacific—“You’d be interested in their recrea-
tion: the officers are well taken care of by their

(Continued on page 380)
RECREATION

 

HIGHLAND PARK’S CITIZENSHIP BUREAU 379

Highland Park's Citizenship
Bureau

INCE 1925, HIGHLAND PARK, Michigan, has
S maintained an American Citizenship Bureau
with a director and a number of part-time teachers
of English and citizenship. The purpose of the
Bureau has been “to help with naturalization and
immigration problems; to prepare the student for
passing .a naturalization examination by giving
the necessary knowledge of history and principles
of government; to promote growth in attitude
which will lead the student to become a responsi-
ble citizen in his community; and to encourage a
desire to work closely and harmoniously with all
nationalities.” The Bureau is financed and admin-
istered by the Recreation Commission which car-
.ries an item of $6,200 in its budget for this purpose.

In the early days of the Bureau, when foreign-
born women hesitated to attend classes elsewhere,
many of the classes were held in the' homes. At
the present time the Bureau conducts twenty
classes, so timed that all work shifts are served.
Many class members do volunteer work in the of-
fice, thus demonstrating their community interest.
The Bureau edits and prepares its own loose-leaf
citizenship manual used in the classes. Since its
organization the Bureau has assisted more than
13.000 to become citizens and has honored from
700 to 1,200 new citizens at special celebrations
each year.

In 1930, the Bureau organized the Citizenship
School Association from graduates of the classes.
From a small beginning membership has now
grown to more than 500 individuals representing
42 natlons. ,

The objectives of the Association are:

“To promote citizenship and continuing adult
education; to unite women of all nationalities in a
close bond of friendship and understanding; and
to develop mutual improvement.”

The Association meets monthly, is governed by
a constitution, and makes annual pilgrimages to
points of interest such as the Capitol in Washing-
ton, D. C., and other places of interest. Members
conduct their own programs, have their own drama
group. and at each meeting honor all women mem-
bers of the class who have passed their examina-
tions. The Association is largely responsible for
recruiting students and helps finance the annual
“I Am an American Day” celebration. The or-
ganization belongs to the National Council of

OCTOBER 1944

 

“‘- -
3' »

 

QCWILSIDN”

America's fighting forces are accustomed to the
besr—in training—in food-in equipment. And
when it comes to sports equipment—for men
in training, in rest billets, on deck or ashore,
you can’t beat a "Wilson." Whether it's a foot-
ball, a softball, a basketball—whether it's a
helmet or a bat—if it's a "Wilson" it’s the
finest thing of its kind our skill and experience,
plus best available material can produce. You
can’t beat a' "Wilson" for design, playability and
long wear. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago,
New York and other leading cities.

[vii/um

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

% Chicago
Goods Mfg. Co., Inc. Plant -

Wilson Athletic
IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

380

AERIAL TENNIS

Excellent for Agameofskill.
schools. play- NOT A TOY.
grounds and Economicalbe-

military train-
in g c a m p s .
Played indoors
or out. Singles
court 20’ x 50'.
Doubles court
26’ x 50'.

cause broken
feathers can be
replaced with
refills, pro-
longing life of
birdie.

Birdies have solid. live-rubber base with small nipple at tip;
each equipped with six selected white feathers. Paddles are of

3/3" plywood, with built up handles and leather tips. All equip-
ment minutely fashioned. Sent on approval.

 

Manufactured by

SELLS AERIAL TENNIS COMPANY

4838 BELINDER ROAD KANSAS CITY. KANSAS

 

Naturalization and Citizenship, and is affiliated
with the American Red Cross, supporting the many
interests of these organizations. Each year it spon-
sors the annual bazaar, the proceeds of which this
year were given to the War Chest. Members are
urged to enroll in other adult classes after becom-
ing citizens.

The Recreation Commission, Daughters of the
American Revolution, Parent-Teacher Associa—
tion, and the Highland Park Woman’s Club are
closely affiliated with the Citizenship Scl‘lool As-
sociation. Each organization furnishes one pro-
gram during the year and attends all the others.

WITH THE ARMED FORCES
( Continued from page 378)

club and a swimming beach with a couple of ten-
nis courts. The men have an excellent park where
there is swimming and boxing,.baseball, volley
ball, tennis, benches and breezes—also ice cream
and hot dogs. The boys like it all right and it’s
good for them. The sports aren’t organized—the
facilities are there and it’s left on an intra- or inter-
ship basis. This is the top we’ve hit in recreation.
The bottom, of course, is the nothing provided at
some places, although there’s usually a ball field.”

Hospitality for Mexican Workers—With
hundreds of Mexican nationals returning to the
Rocky Mountain region to help relieve the agri-
cultural labor shortage, scores of rural communi-
ties have outlined hospitality programs. In many
places special recreation centers, church services,
Spanish speaking movies, and clubs have been or-
ganized to improve the religious and recreational

opportunities of visiting Mexicans—From Rocky
llfozmtain Inter-x’lmerican N can.

CLARENCE ARTHUR PERRY

Clarence Arthur Perry

 

ON SEPTEMBER 5, Clarence Arthur Perry died
at seventy-two years of age after thirty-five
years of close relation to the national recreation
moy'ement. In 1909 he became 'Associate Director
of Recreation for the Russell Sage Foundation,
working closely for nearly thirty years with Lee
F. Hanmer. His book, Wider Use of the School
Plant, published in 1910, and his later writings on
the, use of schools as cotnmunity centers, had a
very great influence throughout the United States.
His monographs, The Neighborhood Unit, pub-
lished in 1929, The Rebuilding of Blighted Areas,
1933, Housing for the .Machine Age, 1939, all had
a distinct influence in the planning field. Mr. Perry
particularly emphasized the neighborhood as a
planning unit. His keen interest in community
drama was indicated in his book, The ll’or/e ‘of the
Little Theatres.

During all the years from 1909 on, Clarence
Arthur Perry worked in close c00peration with the
National Recreation Association, attending Rece
reation Congress gatherings, serving on commit-
tees and giving his support to the national recrea—
tion program. His going is a very distinct loss to
the recreation profession in the United States.

 

Music Week Observance Among the cities
observing Music Week this year were Alton, 11-
linois, and Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where the munici-
pal recreation departments sponsored the observ-

RECREATION

 

NO HITS, NO RUNS, PLENTY ERRORS! - 381

' ance and conducted a program which reached
community groups of all kinds.

In Alton, the Grand Theatre, a local movie
house, throughout the week threw songs on the
screen with arrows indicating the times when men
and when women were to sing and which side of

the house was to do the singing. This aroused
much interest, and the manager of the theatre was

very much pleased with the enjoyment derived by
the audience from the singing.

Duluth Provides Fishing Opportunities——
The Park Department of Duluth, Minnesota, with
the cooperation of the Minnesota State Conserva-
tion Department, has continued to stock local
streams and ponds, with trout, bass, perch and
other fish, so as to provide fishing opportunities
for residents of Duluth right within the limits of
their own community. In this connection, a guide
map was printed and widely distributed showing
the location of stocked waters.

West Hartford Outing Club ———~ Taking ad-
vantage of extended recreation facilities offered in
the town, citizens of West Hartford, Connecticut,
recently formed an Outing Club whose purpose it
is to promote all outdoor activities and to provide
its members with pleasant, healthy, social relation-
ships throughout the year. The Club is open to
any resident of West Hartford and has three types
of memberships: family, senior, and junior. During
the winter the' members are especially interested
' in skiing and skating.

A Harvest Salmagundi
(Continued from page 348)

girl whose name is next on his list. In this way
each man has a partner with as little embarrass—
ment and loss of time as possible.

Hum It. Duplicate slips containing the names
' of familiar tunes are handed out to men and girls.
Each player must locate his partner by humming

his tune until he finds a partner who is humming
the same tune.

Attinities. Prepare a number of affinities, both

persons and objects; give one half to the ladies,
the other to the men, (Adam and Eve, Anthony

and Cleopatra, Jack and Jill, Mutt and Jeff, salt
and pepper, bread and butter).

OCTOBER 1944

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
365 MARQUETTE - FOND DU LAC, wns.

 

No Hits. No Runs. Plenty Errors!

(Continued from page 355)

vided only your health is good, you can afford to
just plain “wallow” in old age and an unrestricted
play time.  '

Many members of the Club have been outstand-
ing in their earlier years. Most of them still retain
their keen mentality and are vitally interested in
all current affairs. Every trade, business, profes-
sion, fad, or calling known to humanity is repre-
sented on the roster. Men and women are about
equally divided. There are about twenty each
winter between the ages of 95 and 100. This sea-
son two of them have passed the century mark!
They represent wide differences of opinion too!
One centenarian attributes his long life to mod-
erate use of liquor. Another boasts that he has
never tasted the stuff in all his life! Use of tobacco
is another bone of contention. They agree on one
thing, however: “If you wish to live to 100 you
must, exercise moderation in everything you do.
We have-proved this in Our famous organization.
No matter how many years old the almanac says
you are, with spring in your heart it’s not how old
you are but how you are old that counts.”

382 TOWN, GOWN, AND FUN, INCORPORATED

The Community School vs.

Community Recreation
(Continued from page 342)
evening as he does for the traditional “educational”
program which for decades was regarded as his
major field. The board of education budget durmg

the past two years has annually included approxi—
mately $310,000 to provide for the recreation needs

of the youth of Newark. I
During the past year, New York and Phlladel—

phia papers have praised the Newark program,
both in news and editorial columns. The Novem—
ber, 1943, issue of Ladies Home Journal devoted
a special story to the effectiveness of the Newark
program in meeting the challenge of juvenile de—
linquency. The Columbia University survey of the
Newark school system in 1942 evaluated the recre-
ation program in most favorable terms, particu-
larly with reference to teacher preparation, basic
philosophy, organizational pattern, and the develop—
ment of community understanding and support.

And SundayI Too

(Continued from page 361)
each was somewhat different from the other. All
were simple. Volleyball, aerial darts, or modified
badminton, circle games, campfire talks, group
singing, a radio program concluding with songs
like “Follow the Gleam,” and a closing prayer or
benediction sent everyone home with a feeling of
good fellowship and well-being. The boys and

girls chipped in to pay for the refreshments.
These Sunday evenings have been so successful

that they will probably be continued through the
fall and winter. The Youth Planning Commission
has proved that recreation day-by-day can be ar-
ranged if you make up your mind to it. And the
Ministerial Association‘has a higher opinion" of
young people than it did a year ago.

Recreation at Sunrise
(Continued from page 3.52)

too, is looking forward to presenting a series of
plays.

Gone into the limbo of forgotten unpleasantness
are the days when in all Stratford only sleepy Joe
and the milkman were on hand to cheer the swing—
shifters as they came out of the plant gates at
5 A. M. Now there are for them many pleasant
places where they may “walk abroad and recreate
themselves.”

--.

Town. Gown. and FunI Incorporated
(Continued from page 346)

hundred were in the reading group the second

summer, and the number receiving certificates

jumped to 365.

Who are some of the voluntary donors who
make possible this Lawrence program of commu-
nity recreation? The entire $400 which began the
program in the summer of 1940 was contributed
by the American Association of University
Women through the Children’s Theater funds. In
1941 the Parent-Teacher Council joined as co-
sponsors. The Board of Education, since the early
days of the program, has made a solid financial
contribution, in addition to making schools and
playgrounds available. This year the Board of
Education contribution amounted to $800. Indi-
viduals and organizations from all over the city
make donations, big or little, in response to let—
ters sent out by the Recreation Council.

Recreation in‘ Lawrence is city-wide. As part
of last summer’s recreation program there was a
series of neighborhood family fun nights in the six
different playground districts. Playground chil-
dren brought their parents. During last winter
there was a special recreation evening at one of
the schools for the twenty to thirty Mexican fami-
lies in the city. The grand finale in South Park
for the entire playground program last year
brought in many new residents of Lawrence.

Thus, through excellent community organiza-
tion, through the pooling of all talent—town as
well as gown—Lawrence, Kansas, offers recrea-

tion to three groups:
(1) Since 1940, a six weeks’ summer program of or-
ganized playground recreation

(2) Since last winter, with funds furnished by the
Business and Professional Women’s Club, P.T.A.
Council, and individuals and through the active help
of interested parents, a teen age dance every
Friday . night

(3) Through funds from the Community Chest and
administration of a Community Service League
which includes representatives from all churches,
clubs, and even the City Council, a recreation pro-
gram for servicemen without any outside help.

All in all, it’s one of the best stories of all—out
volunteer effort you could imagine. Cities which
have yet to work out plans for organized public
recreation should be encouraged by what Lawrence
has accomplished. While the University has made
available extra talent, and through its cooperation,
has made available extra recreational facilities, any
city has an unbelievable fund of talent going un-

RECREATION

--%-I

LIVING MARIONETTES TAKE A BOW 383

used. Voluntary help and service, plus the unfiag—
ing enthusiasm of a few interested leaders, could
make possible the achievement of Lawrence any-
where.

Living Marionettes Take a Bow
(Continued from page 357)

the marionette show is there, but the audience is
much less “squirmy.”
marionette takes valuable time and supervision
that might better be put, for our purposes, into the
actual crafts of acting. The double cast has many
advantages and the correlating between voice and
physical interpretation motivates good Speech
habits. .

Little equipment is needed for the show. Cos—
tumes, set pieces, a few properties will serve to
create the necessary illusion. A clothes hanger
with cords tied to the actor’s arms, legs, and head
is the control. The strings should be large enough
to be visible. Ideally they should be hot elastic so
that the slack from marionette’s motions is auto-
matically taken up. The manipulator will have less
to do! In some plays, where a deeper stage is
needed, the clothes hanger can be lengthened by a
stick. .

There are a few special problems that must be
kept in mind when a live marionette show is to be
produced. It takes longer to hold tryouts since two
people must be selected for each character.. The
first rehearsal is even more important than in
straight playing because both voice and panto-
mimist must find their character motivation. Each
part of a character team should have a complete
script, and each should understand the play from
the point of view of the person he is going to
portray. The marionette should not be put on the
strings too soon because it is possible that mechani-
cal problems will delay his iirst and fundamental
job of interpretation and creation of character.
When both voice and puppet can work without
scripts is time enough to complete the job of
stringing. So that the marionette and his voice
may each understand the other’s problem, the
parts should be reversed during some of the earlier
rehearsals and after the stringing has been com—
pleted.

Special attention should be given to the make-
up so that the artiflcial quality of marionettes is
retained. Exaggerated silhouette and vivid colors
used in costuming will capture the same illusion
and help the actor feel less like himself and more
like the stylized doll he is supposed to be.

OCTOBER 1944

 

Furthermore, making a-

ATHENS SERVICE CENTER

“Ik‘y'n .'

may Bow11ng Alley,
Service Center

 

THIS is just one of many letters we receive every
day telling us the important part our patented,
portable Two-Way Bowling Alley is playing in Rec-
reatidnal Programs all over the United States as well
as abroad.

Write for our portfolio containing letters of com-
mendation and complete illustrated literature telling
all about this new way of bowling. Fill in the coupon
and mail immediately! No obligation!

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York l6

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us additional

information and literature describing alley.

Name .......................................................................... ..

Address ...................................................................... ..
City .................................  State ...................... ..

TWO-WAY

 

JBOWLING CORPORATION

0 Telephone: LExington 2-8828 0

I I4 EAST 32nd STREET
NEW YORK I6. N. Y.

 

384

 

 

you Gan Use

THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education, and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with' the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,

PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

 

 

Americans at Play in the Far North
(Continued from page 358)

semaphore, electricity, and radio fundamentals
were attended chiefiy by girls! On Tuesday and
Friday evenings from 7:30 to 9:30 instruction in
wood carving was available to anyone over ten
years old. On Monday and Wednesday mornings
in July (when the weather was eSpecially bad)
art classes were held under a local instructor.

The center was open every afternoon and eve-
ning for dancing and games. It was christened the
“Polar Bear Den” for these occasions. From 2 to
5 in the afternoon the smaller children took over
for games and story hour. After dinner the teen-
agers came in for dancing and more grown—up
games. During the summer 185 children and 280
teen-agers used the club.

This would seem a pretty full program for a
town the size of Ketchikan. The ‘Ketchikan Recre-
ational Council doesn’t think so. They are plan-
ning to expand during the coming year. They
want more room and they want a bigger program.
They will probably get it through the same kind of
community cooperation and community spirit that
brought them this far along the road.

The Story of .a Recreation Convert
( Continued from page 368)
July of 1929. The Mayor himself tossed the first
ball for the inaugural game.

The enthusiasm of the crowd, the thrill of the
game, gave Mayor Bailey a new appreciation of
the meaning of recreation as a governmental func-
tion. Here was proof, positive and undeniable, of

DO YOU BELONG?

' I
Do You Belong? !

N SEPTEMBER 13, 1944, the membership in

the Society of Recreation Workers of I
America had mounted to 682, the highest all-time ‘
membership record in the history of the Society. 1
It is expected that the Society’s year, which ends

October 15, will see a membership of more than i

700. The previous peak year for membership,
1943, produced a total of 536 on October I 5. “This
increase to date of I46,” writes Philip LeBoutil-
lier, secretary of the Society, “is indicative of an
increased interest in professional growth.”

public interest in recreation; of its value in build—
ing community happiness‘and contentment; of its
infiuence on a community provided with a well-
balanced diet of worth-while leisure hour activities.

Mayor Bailey fiashed the green light for further-
ance of the projected development. But before
work could be gotten fairly underway on a second
baseball diamond, Mayor Bailey died unexpectedly
in his sleep in mid-August—barely a month after
the first ball diamond had been opened.

Then came a lull in the development. Succes-
sors did not possess Mayor Bailey’s enthusiasm
for the park and its development, or his vision of
what it meant to the community of today—and to-
morrow. Before it was possible to interest the new
Mayor in the project, the great market crash had
engulfed the nation. There was an immediate
tightening of public funds. The park development
was indefinitely shelved.

Three years later, through the efforts of these
same tireless recreation workers, the city pro-

posed completion of the Bailey Park development '

as one of the first major undertakings of the Fed-
eral Works Agency, then coming into being. And
so the development program was revived.

Today Bailey Park contains six of the finest
grassed-infield diamonds anywhere available—dia-
monds of such character that for years they have
been utilized by the St. Louis National League
Baseball Club as a site for one of its tryout camps;
diamonds that have been the scene of many na-
tional and state baseball tournaments. One has a
brick and concrete grandstand with seating ca—
pacity of 1,800. Underneath are showers, dressing
rooms and lounges. Three others have brick-
wooden bleachers each with seating capacity of 600.

There are three softball fields; four concrete
tennis courts; several acres of picnic area with a
dozen brick ovens and all-steel broilers and tables

RECREATION

 

PHOTOGRAPHING THE BIRDS 385

with accommodations for about 400. There is, too,

a fully-equipped playground with a lagoon wading _

pool; acre upon acre of sodded turf; a picturesque
path along an enchanting waterway; shaded nooks
and corners galore, and a splendidly appointed
comfort station.

Today these compose Bailey Park at Battle
Creek, Michigan—~a living monument to a recre-
ation convert—~the late John W. Bailey.

Photographing the Birds

(Continued from page 370)
A string or fishline may be substituted for the

cable release. In some cameras strings may be at-
tached directly to the release levers, and by the
use of eye screws placed on the tripods or other
supports, the direction of pull may be controlled to
make it possible to trip the shutters. For some of
the miniature cameras with plunger releases, home-
made devices may be constructed from plywood
or metal and attached either directly to the. tripods
or to short cable reléases.

In photographing backyard feeding table activi-
ties, it is a time-saver to extend the string or cable
release into the window of the house, provided that
camera and table are so placed that they can be
observed from a window. A photographer can set
up his camera in the morning and go about other
work inside the house, keeping an occasional eye
on the camera from the window. Whenever birds
are around the table, in a suitable position for
photographing, he can trip the shutter from inside
the house. After resetting the camera, he may
resume other work until another picture is ready
for the taking. _

Some photographers have carried remote con-
trol a step further and have set up electrical mag-
netic devices that require only the closing of a
circuit to trip the shutter.

When nest-pictures are desired, the tripod may
be tied to a tree branch, or a clamp may be used

to attach the camera directly to a branch. Here.

again the remote control device is used to release
the shutter, with the photographer waiting in a
hiding place until the desired picture can be
secured. Parent birds feeding the young make
among the best of bird pictures. A high angle is
generally desired for such pictures. A pair of field
glasses aids in observing the nest from a distance
and in getting good shots.

With nests often in deep shade or mottled light,
the greatest problem to overcome in getting nest
pictures is that of light. An exposure meter is :1

OCTOBER 10944

MM: GR FGO R-GOLDSMITH INC.

FOR" II "DUMB? 59!. CIKINIIQTI II. omo. 0.8.”.

5‘

.4?"   ~ , —: :_
. V .A

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur‘ Base- '
ball and Softball, in Universities.
Colleges anleigh Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and industrial, Recreation,
Goldsmith Sports Equipment is rec-
ognized as a hallmark ‘of quality

. and unva'rying performance.

Army-Navy "E ’ awarded,
SPORT PRODUCTS. Inc..

 

great asset, for it is difhcult to judge the quantity

of light. When colored pictures are taken, the light
factor is even more important than with black and
white, for the colored film has very little latitude.
In securing colored nesting pictures a synchro—
flash is an invaluable aid. Daylight flash bulbs
having the same color quality as daylight can be
purchased, and colors will be true even when
taken in mottled light.

It is said that in photography it is the man
behind the camera rather than the camera that:
counts. This statement is true in bird photography,
but there are certain limitations of equipment for
which the human element cannot compensate.
Bird pictures must be taken near enough to show
the bird in sufficient size to be interesting. There-
fore a box camera in which the bird would be out
of focus at less than six feet has little value in
photographing .small birds. To get the bird to
show up well on the film it is desirable to have a
lens With a long focal length or to be able to move
the camera close to the object to be photographed.
A portrait lens attachment, extension bellows, or
tubes may be required.

Manufacturers. Cincinnati. 0.

386 HAVE A THEME FOR YOUR PARTY

An Important NEW Book

CONOUERING Tllll SURF

Lifesaving and Surfboarding

By HENRY F. POHL

Former Water Safety Director
Ocean County, N. 1., Red Cross

VERY bit of skill, knowledge, experience and

common sense you can muster is needed to
conquer the ocean. Mr. Pohl, having spent his entire
career to working with the ocean, has just written
a comprehensive book on the subject. The three
main sections of the book are: “What to Do in the
Surf,” “Surfboarding,” and “Surfboarding Con-

struction.”

Written for the beginner as well as the instructor,
CONQUERING THE SURF contains a wealth of invalu-
able material clearly and simply written, profusely
illustrated, in pocket size. Single Copies $1.35.
T on or more $1 each.

at?

The Year’s Most Valuable Reference for anyone
associated with Swimming Pools, Beaches, Recrea-
tion or Planning of such facilities.

1944 Swimming Pool Data and

Reference Annual

An Encyclopedia of Postwar Planning and Promo-
tion . . . Construction and Design . . . Recreational
Promotion . . . Operation and Maintenance . . .
Products, Equipment, Supplies.

Over 90 pages of real help to everyone planning,
building or operating a pool or beach.
Price per copy $3.00.
Sent on approval.

72?

Copies of these books are limited.r due to wartime paper
restrictions. Order now. Ask for list of other Aquatic
books available.

BEACH & POOL

I Book Department

425 FOURTH AVENUE
New York 16, N. Y.

 

The picture on page 370 was taken with a
I 35 mm. lens on a miniature camera with a ground-
glass focusing copy attachment. These made it
possible to have the camera about five feet from
the bird photographed but still to obtain a large
image on the negative. If a large negative is used,
with the bird occupying only a small part of the
negative, line—grain development will make possi—
ble great enlargement of the image.

The easiest place to start bird photography is

Have a Theme for Your Party
(Continued from page 360) 0

Ladies’ Choice, Leap Year,

Turn Convention Inside

Out
Le ft Handed

Mad March Hare

Magazine

March Blow-Out

Mardi Gras

May Day

Mayflower Frolic

Mexican Pineta

Mexican Fiesta

Military

Mirror

Moonlight

Mother and Daughter

Money Raising

Movie

Music Games

Musical Memories

Mystery—Houdini,
Magician, Trick Tryst,
Whodunit?

New Job
Newspaper
Night in Spain
Notables
Numbers
Nutty

Oasis

Old Clothes
Olympic
Open House
Our Times

Out of the' Rut

Paper
Parents’ Night
Patriotic
Pioneer—Westward Ho,
Wild West,
Gold Rush Days
Boots and Saddles
Pirate
Pop
Pop-corn
Pot Luck
Poverty
Powers Model
Prehistoric
Progressive Supper
Psychological

Queer Query—Professor
Quiz, Quiz Kids

Radio
Rainbow
Ration
Reunion

Robin Hood

Salmagundi Spree
Scavenger
Sculpture

Seventeen Seventy-Six
Ship Ahoy

Shower Party—Bridal, Stork

Sing It

South of the Border

Spanish Fiesta

Spelling Bee

Spring Clean Up

Star Study, Astronomy

Stroke of Twelve—Turn
Back the Clock, Turn
Over a New Leaf

Street Fair

Stunt

Tall Stories

Tin Can

Tip Toppers (Tall People)
To the Ladies

Treasure Hunt

Twelfth Night
Twenty-One

Upside Down
Utopia

Victorian
Victory

Wall Street
Welcome Home

When the Men Entertain
White Elephant

Whozit '

Windy

Wordy

You Can Make It
Young Man’s Fancy

Zany

. Zodiac

in your own backyard with the equipment you now
have and with the birds you are able to attract by
regular feeding. Much can.be accomplished with

patience and originality in the development of
homemade camera attachments.

“Puppetry enriches dramatic play. The con-
ndence gained in presentation of ideas through
puppets gives- children a deep emotional experi-
ence.”——-—Lambert and Shoemaker in Let Them

Play.
RECREATION

A RECREATIONAL LEADERSHIP CLASS IN A PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL 387

A Recreational Leadership Class in a

Public High School

(Continued from page 365)

ever, can be developed in each one; and this is
decidedly worth while in our quest for real de-
mocracy. It is a real thrill to discover that the big,
overweight boy with large unskilled hands who
had so much trouble with handicraft, worked as a
volunteer in a settlement house teaching wood-
ci‘aft, and that the little timid girl spent this sum—
mer telling stories at a summer day camp for pre-
school children whose parents were in war in-
dustry.

The age of the juvenile delinquent is going
down as the need for leadership in recreation is
increasing. If our high school youth can serve as
leaders of the younger children and release the
adults for the older boys and girls, and if these
- high school people will use their leisure in volun-
teer work in our community centers, the delin-
quency problem will be greatly alleviated.

Can You Entertain Yourself?
(Continued from page 369)

tainment and in this town there are no movies!
The last letter I had from Sarah told me of her
life in Texas with her soldier husband. Although
the camp at which he was stationed was far from
town, they had been so fortunate as to secure a
few rooms in a farmhouse close enough to enable
John to come home every night. He had, of course,
to leave early in the morning and sometimes could
not return until very late. Thus, except for the
companionship of the farmer and his wife, Sarah
was left in the country alone every day from five
or six in the morning until seven in the evening.

Not different is the situation of defense workers.
Corrine, one of my former students, has a job
welding in St. Louis. Mary, another pupil of mine,
is working as an electrician in an airplane factory
in Los Angeles eight hours a day, seven days a
week. When he came back from visiting an air-
plane factory in Emporia, Kansas, one of my
friends told of girls who 'spent the entire day
counting bolts or examining the threads of a nut.
If the threads are not perfect, the nut cannot be
securely fastened, and the bolt will not hold firm.
The manufacturer hires his own examiners, but
the work is so important that the government hires
inspectors to make an additional check. In any of
these positions, it is exciting at first to feel that

OCTOBER 1944

NATIONAL

GYM SUITS
for GIRLS

ir Correct Style
* Proper Design
«* Quality Fabrics
, \ * Expert Workmanship

      
 

71W

‘ 1mm 7: £ aprt-wr co.
 365-75 MARQUEI’TE

Fono ca 1.4:, WIS.

one is playing an essential part in the war effort ;
but what comes afterwards? It is fine to get time-
and—a-half pay for overtime work, but that does
not make the work less monotonous or the strain
less telling.

\V hat can keep these people going for days,
weeks, even years, and leave them strong and
wholesome people to carry their share of the burden
during the days of reconstruction? Obviously, they
must have skill for the present job; but it is equally
important that they have within themselves re-
sources through which they can not only repair the
mental and spiritual damage of the day but also
grow stronger for the future. They must know
how to find recreation that is truly re-creation.

I have spoken of Mary and Sarah and Corrine
because I know them and know what they are;
they will not crack. But when one of our staff
visited a shipbuilding concern in Los Angeles at
Christmas, the manager told her he had had great
trouble with his employees. They got tired; the
work was boresome; they did not stick.

In which class will you be? “I ill you crack or
can you stick? Are you prepared for the spiritual
demands of the war?

38S SPEECH CLASSES ARE MORE INTERESTING NOW!

 

 

Speech Classes Are More

draft Projects Interesting Now!
. . (Continued from page 372)
for Every season and ACl'V'ly conductor was engaged. All planning and organi—

' zation for the speech rally was done by the speech
  &  class. They even provided their own publicity, for
they bragged about themselves to the local news-

paper, announced the project in classes, and talked
about it to everybody they saw, thus proving to

contains an abundance of unusual crafts in each
monthly issue (n0t published during July and ‘
August). Each copy has ample projects for all *

age groups. themselves the value of propaganda. . '

Just the thing for club activity programs and one night in May the Court was Illummatea’
Other recreational uses. the band played several Sousa compositions, and

Full explanations, procedures, and Other Coldwater residents and visitors gathered at the
information 0‘1 eaCh Prole“ Page- courthouse park to buy hot dogs sold by the

Bad] monthly issue 3150 contains PlaYS, PIO- senior class and to listen to the Speech rally. Speak-
grams’ and Skits Presented in SimPle’ egeaive ers were introduced by members of the class and
Style. I . _ problems of the day were discussed by the local
1.6qu2:- Speamen Prolea Pages SUP P 116d Upon authorities. On the program, in addition to all the

adults, were two outstanding high school speakers.

Only $3.00 for a year's subscription The following day the local paper carried a full

“0 ‘55“95) account of Coldwater’s successful rally for war,

597251 Your Sub-W 21mm TOW? I and even the Detroit 'Free Press gave us publicity.-
Iunior ARTS & ACTIVITIES In addition to the pI'OjeCtS mentioned, we have
Deparmm R managed to prepare the usual run of speech assrgn-

4616 N. CLARK STREET, CHICAGO 40' ILL ments, lessons in parliamentary procedure, debates,

dramatic interpretation, readings, and formal

 

   

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMl N lSTRATlON
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the administration aspects of
their department and its correlation with Other departments of city government. Specialiemphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-

: grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

     
   
     
 
        
     
   
   
   
       

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each
lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfactory completion of the work:

One enrollee recently wrote, "Trnrbfnlly I cannot remember any
ejforr on my part which has paid a}? in dividends so qnz'ckly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION

l3l3 East 60th Street. Chicago 37. Illinois
l_—________—_____—___|

RECREATION

speaking such as eulogies and speeches of intro—
duction. The outside activities, in our opinion,
were successful in making the class more interest*
ing and far more beneficial to the student. For the
boy and girl learned to adapt his talks to all age
groups—something that cannot be done in speech

class alone.

Once a year the speech class goes to church
where we hear a professional speaker, the minister.
Following our visit that minister visits the class to
tell the boys and girls how he prepares his talks
and what devices he considers pertinent to good
speeches. Usually, following this discussion, the
boys and girls are eager to present individual prob—
lems for help or suggestions.

Whenever we put on a school play, the chil-
dren visited the other schools in town and gave
pep talks about the play. These contacts are always

enjoyed.

In debate, we usually use as our first question
the ever-interesting problem to boys and girls:
‘ “Should boys and girls in high school date
steady?” From this simple question we work
'toward more learned resolutions. As we become
better debaters, we tackle more difhcult subjects.
In forum discussions my classes have always found
boy—girl problems of intense interest, and fre-
quently in panel discussions the students have
t been interested in discussing the idea of girls
l wearing slacks in school. Not only is the panel

interested in discussing the problem, but the audi-
l} ence is interested in contributing, and from these

light discussions on adolescence we work into the
' topics suggested by the Victory Speakers’ Bureau.

 

l

I find that my classes are gradually changing.

l There are fewer football players and more above

average students coming into the class to gain

'poise in speaking rather than to escape world
‘ literature!

New York City After the War

. (Continued from page 373)

been so great that we have asked the Borough
President of ‘Manhattan to build a promenade be-
tween 52nd and 58th Streets, connecting these
park areas. Most of the rights of access to this
waterfront were retained by the original 'owners
at the time the easement was taken for the con—
struction of the Drive.

(Continued on page 390)

OCTOBER 1944

MAGAZINES AND PAJIPHLETS 389

Magazines and Pamphlets

     

 

2 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker l

MAGAZINES

Beach and Pool, August 1944

Relaxation and Swimming, Dorothy R. Mohr, Ph.D.
Proper Pool Supervision, Tom L. Johnson

School Activities, September 1944

Education in the High School for Leisure Activities,
W. Ardell Haines

Monthly Bulletin, Indiana State Board of Health,

July 1944

Modern Hoosier Swimming Holes, George G.
Fassnacht

The Baptist Training Union Magazine, September 1944

Christian Recreation, Calling Our Churches, Sibley
C. Burnett

Hygeia, September 1944
Significance of Swing, Lucille G. Rosenheim

Probation, June 1944

Juvenile Delinquency, \Nartime Trends 1943, Freder-
ick W. Killian

National Humane Review, June 1944
Wildlife vs. Camping, William H. Cass

Parks and Recreation, May-June 1944

Victory Gardening and Park Departments, William
J. Daugherty

Journal of Health and Physical Education, September 1944

Statement on Boxing, Arthur H. Steinhans
Advertising Sports EvEnts, C. L. Jofdan

PAM PH LETS

Plan for Public Recreational Areas, St. Louis, Missouri
City Planning Commission, St. Louis, Missouri

A Catalogue of Selected Educational Recordings

(including section on youth problems) .
Recordings Division, New York University Film

Library, Washington Square, New York 3, N. Y.

Neighborhood Design and Control

National Committee on Housing, Inc., 512 Fifth
Avenue, New York 18, N. Y. Price $1.00

Free and Low Cost Materials for Science Clubs of
America

Science Clubs of America, 1719 N St., N.\V., \Vash-
in-gton 6, D. C.

Preserving Fruits and Vegetables

National Victory Garden Institute, Inc., 598 Madison
Avenue, New York 22, N. Y. 3%», cents each

390 NEW YORK CITY AFTER THE WAR

  

Two New Sports Books for
Every Recreation Leader

SPORTS: ORGANIZATION
and ADMINISTRATION

By Hughes and Williams

   
 
      

A brilliantly informative
new book! These well-
known,“ experienced au-
thors give you practical
and specific directions for
organizing and conducting
a super-successful schedule
of sports. Nothing has
been overlooked! The
needs of both sexes and
all age groups have been
recognized and answered
in vivid detail. The book
is well-written and splen-
didly organized. It defi-
nitely belongs on your

sportshelf.
$4.00

      
       
     
           
     
   
   
    

 

 
   
   
 

4|4 Pages

  
 
 
    

ENCYCLOPEDIA OF SPORTS
By Frank G. Menke .

  
 

Here is the most amazing
sports book of our time; a
tremendous volume chock-
full of fascinating facts and
records—presented refresh-
ingly and authoritatively
by the master historian of
the sports world. Believe-
It-Or-Not Ripley claims it
will answer 4,000,000 ques-
tions on sports records and
history! Gives you the
complete history of every
sport from Angling to
Yachting. Here, under one
cover, you will find: every
all-American football team
since 1889, every individual baseball record since
1876, every boxing champion in history, etc., etc. A
book that affords hours of enjoyable reading and
saves countless days of research.

628 Pages

       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
     
   
      

$3.50

   

Send for our new,

   

complete catalog

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY
67 West 44th St. New 'York I8. N. Y.

  
    
     
 

   

(Continued from page 389)

Recreational Facilities for Housing Projects

In connection with the ten new state publi
housing projects planned for postwar construction
recreational needs of the neighborhood as well a
of the project residents will be taken care of a
part of the project. One of the best will be a
Astoria Houses, Queens, on the East River at th
end of Astoria Boulevard. Bulkhead reconstruc
tion and extension will make room for complet
recreation facilities.

Marine Park, Brooklyn, 1,792 acres, ‘will hav
golf courses, boat bases, playgrounds, and genera
park areas. Great Kills Park, Richmond, 1,25
acres, will have a two-mile beach and complet
facilities for recreation. This park, and Sound
view Park in the Bronx, I 59 acres, will be built 0
land completely reclaimed with the aid of the De
partment of Sanitation dumping operations.

Flushing Meadow Park, former World Fai
site, is ready for completion and will supply com
plete facilities for this neighborhood. It is to be
connected by Kissena Corridor with Kissena an
Cunningham Parks, providing a continuous green
strip 4% miles long through the heart of Queens.
Both Kissena and Cunningham Parks will hav
large areas reclaimed and reconstructed. Farthe
out in the borough, part of Alley Park is, being re
claimed from swamp land.

   
    
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
    
   
    
 

Ninety-four New Playgrounds

The program provides plans for ninety-fou
new playgrounds and the reconstruction of sixtee
old ones in neglected parts of the city. -Some wil
be operated jointly by the Board of Education and
the Department of Parks at the sites of ne
schools. Some will be built in conjunction with
the new housing developments planned by the
New York City Housing Authority. Others will
be built in congested districts throughout the city
on properties acquired by purchase, condemnation,
and foreclosure of tax liens. Upon completion of
these new play areas, the Department will havj
581 playgrounds in operation. There were II
when we took charge in 1934.

The scope of the program and its objectives may
not be broad enough to satisfy academic planners.
. . . We believe, however, that it will appeal to the
average citizen who wants the city improved, wants
men employed at useful work, and is willing to
pay the bill if the work is intelligently laid out and
honestly executed.

- RECREATION

Evenings with Music

By Syd Skolsky. E. P. Dut-ton and Company, New York.
$3.00.

N TWENTY-SEVEN CHAPTERS, each an evening of music

appreciation, the novice at listening to the world’s
great music is guided from Bach to Prokotieff. Charts
and drawings enable the eye to come to the aid of the
ear in graSping the fundamentals of the various elements
that go into the making and the performance of a musical
composition.

Ben Hunt's ‘W-hittling Book

Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee. $2.50.

WHAT TO DO with a pocketknife and a hunk of soft
wood is the subject of 111 pages of pictures and
I print by a mastercraftsman in the art of whittling. Mr.
Hunt explains in the preface to his manual that “the sub-
jects illustrated . . . were selected to be of interest to
students, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, home craftsmen,
and teachers.” Both illustrations and text should prove
' valuable to the novice in the art of whittling.
For those" wood-workers who prefer a file to a knife,
'. or for whittling devotees who would like to try their
hands with a new tool, Wood Resp Carving by Louis J.
'Haas (published by the author at 3 Gedney Terrace,
White Plains, N. Y.) is an easy-to~follow manual. Like
Ben Hunt, Mr. Haas has used pictures and text to ex-
plain each step in the craft. This booklet, the price of
[which is 80 cents, is the latest addition to aoseries of
‘ how-to-do-its published by Mr. Haas in recent years.
,. Among the earlier titles of interest to arts-and-crafters
I 'are Ar‘t Metal Work and Jewelry, Graphic Bookbinding,
and The Fold-Ups.

 

' Round-the-World Christmas Album

Compiled and arranged by Felix Guenther. English
adaptations by Olga Paul. Edward B. Marks Music
Corporation, R.C.A. Building, New York. $.50.

HERE IS A BOOK to remember when you plan your 1944

Christmas celebration. The Album represents a col-

A number of songs have been included which are out-
standing as much for their poetic and musical value as
for the glimpses of cultural background they provide.

Encyclopedia of Sports

By Frank G. Menke. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $3.50.

We BELIEVE we shall not be challenged if we make the
statement that no one has made a more exhaustive
study of the background and history of sports or dug
out more interesting facts about them than Frank Menke.

OCTOBER 1944

lection of Christmas carols and songs from many nations:

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

This enlarged and revised edition of the 1939 Encyclo-
pedia of Sports deals not only with the sports and inter-
esting facts about them, but with organizations which
promote them, and players who have taken part in them
and become well known because of their outstanding
ability. Not only interesting but often little known facts
crowd the pages of this volume of more than 625 pages.“

Sports—Their Organization .and
Administration

By William Leonard Hughes, Ph.D. and Jesse Feiring
Williams, M.D., Sc.D. A. S. Barnes and Company,

New York 18. 

HE AUTHORS, believing that the wide participation of

people in a variety of athletic games and sports in-
Huences profoundly their cultural and social pattern, have
devoted this book to a consideration of Sports in relation
to the American scene. The early chapters consider the
place of sports in Igodern American life; the later
chapters give practical, concrete suggestions and direc-
tions for the conduct of sports in various institutions at
different age levels and with respect to the needs of both
sexes. In brief, the first part of the book presents a
social philosophyma point of view; the latter part, an
educational analysis—a way of procedure. It is the hope
of the authors that those who read the book will gain
an understanding of the place of sports in American
culture and will learn how to conduct them so that social
values will emerge.

Conquering the Surf—Lifesaving
.and Surtboarding

By Henry F. Pohl. Hoffman-Harris, Inc., 425 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. $1.35."
HIS BOOK HAS BEEN WRITTEN not only for aquatic
professionals and members of the armed forces, but
for all individuals who want to derive more pleasure from
the surf. The material is clear and informative, and
graphically illustrated. o

How-to-BuiId-lt Series

By Hi Sibley. Douglas Fir Plywood Association, 205
East 42nd Street, New York 17. Up to five c0pies, free.

THESE PRACTICAL LEAFst cover such subjects as A

Rigid, Take—Apart Tennis Table; An Informal Gar-
den Pool; Two Swings and a Merry-Go-Ronnd; Two
Folding Picnic Tables; Make Y our Own Bird-Bath;
Portable Workbench for Indoors; A Dutch-Colonial Doll
House; and A Light-.Weight Skip“ and other articles.

391

392

Great Song of Faith.

Arranged by Beatrice and Max Krones. Neil A. Kjos
Music Company. Chicago. $.50.

Eighteen songs from different lands and different times
have been brought together and arranged to be sung by
congregation and choir, or by two choirs. Many of the
hymns will be familiar to everyone, others, less Widely
known, are well worth learning. -

Tricks You Can Do Without Practice.
Hart Publishing Company. New York. $.06.

Here are twenty-one tricks, with cards, with coins,
with cigarettes and cutlery and checkers and strings and
other commodities you might lind in your pocket—or at
least very close to hand. The booklet tells, with pictures,
how to mystify your friends. It is one of a series of nine
titles published by the Hart Company at the same price.
Some of the other titles are A Slew of Swell Pencil
Games, A Pack of Prize Cartoon Games, What’s Y owr
I. Q., The I/Vorld’s Best Puzzles, The World’s Best

Quizzes.

Health and First Aid.

By Morris Fishbein, MD. and Leslie W. Irwin,
Ph.D. Lyons and Carnahan, New York. $1.60.

Designed as a textbook, Health and First Aid is a
clear and reasonable approach to the two subjects. The
book is divided into two parts. The hrst half is a com~
mon-sense discussion of day to day questions such as
clothing and sleeping, and (118131 habits in relation to
health, the care of the teeth, skin and hair, and similar
topics. The second half of the book is a manual of

first aid.

Economic Factors in Michigan Delinquency.

By Paul Wiers. Edited by William N. Fuson.
Columbia University Press, New York. $1.00. '

This study, the first attempt known to its sponsors to
provide a state-wide statistical picture of the economic
backgrounds of juvenile delinquency in the United States,
supplies a method for broadening scientific research in
juvenile delinquency. The study reaches the conclusion
that delinquency prevention will not be achieved by a
program of slum clearance confined to the larger cities,
and it will not be eliminated merely by raising the aver-
age income of a communit'y. The problem of parental
neglect must be solved if the maximum possible reduc-
tion of delinquency rates is to be achieved. An important
question is raised in the final conclusion reached, which
is that the data shows a lack of association, either nega-
tive or positive, between educational indices and church
membership on the one hand, and the rate of juvenile
delinquency on the other. “Are the churches and the
schools really as neutral in this light as this study
suggests ?”

Delinquency and the Community in Wartime.

1943 Yearbook of the National Probation Associa-
tion. Edited by Marjorie Bell. National Probation
Association, 1790 Broadway, New York 19. Paper
bound, $1.25; cloth, $1.75.

This issue of the Yearbook of the National Probation
Association contains addresses, discussions, and reports
on the treatment and prevention of delinquency and
crime by leaders in the correctional field who discuss
such questions as how the war is affecting delinquency
and crime in local communities, and what are the most
effective methods in meeting the problem. This timely
publication will be of great interest to recreation workers
and other leaders of youth. .

NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

How to Retire and Like It.

By Raymond P. Kaighn. Association Press, 347
Madison Avenue, New York. $1.75.

Here is a guide to happy and satisfying retirement.
Our later years, the author points out, can be tilled with
happiness and usefulness if we will learn from the ex-
perience of others. And so he suggests ways of meeting
the physical, financial, vocational, avocational, emotional
and social adjustments upon which will depend the
degree of happiness the retired man or woman will
achieve. There are many suggestions for hobbies and
satisfying recreation.

1943 Year Book—Park and Recreation Progress.

National Conference on State Parks, Washington,

D. C. $1.00.

The effect of the war upon the state parks and their
services is made clear in this publication which contains
detailed statements submitted by park authorities in 36
states. Evidence is presented that in spite of travel re-
strictions, state parks are making a valuable contribution
to the war ei’r’ort. Although civilian use has been curtailed
in most of the states, park areas and facilities are serving
large numbers of men and women in the armed forces.
The National Conference of State Parks is to be com-
mended for having assembled and made available the
valuable information contained in the Year Book.

In addition to the accounts of developments in 1943,
the Year Book presents statistical tables recording the
1942 expenditures, sources of funds, personnel and at-
tendance at state parks and data concerning the existing
acreage and land acquired during the year. A directory
of the agencies administering state parks and related
recreational areas is a useful feature of the publication.

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association
OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD.BRAUCIIER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscan, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK._LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
_ToHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

