Faith—Christmas |944

HE UNITED STATES has responsibility with others after the war to prove that

life the world over can be beautiful, .can have tuneful music, delightful
adventure, satisfying drama, thrilling athletic competition, can be a place that
gives the soul of man enduring satisfaction.

The world after all is not a plate for savagery, for torture, for incredi-
ble forms of cruelty, for continued unnecessary physical suffering, for stark
. endurance that is negative, that gets no one forward. War is a negation of all
that makes man most fully man and different from the beasts in the jungle.

There is a dream for mankind that has reality, there is romance of living,
there is'depth and breadth and thickness and richness and joy to living—once it
can be uncovered.

Cynicism, pessimism, brute force is not the last word.

There is satisfying life to be savored together, a comradeship that passeth
words. There is beauty beyond description that is for us all.

I do not know whether or not there be milk and oranges and nylon
raiment for all who live in Thibet and in Central Africa, but I do know there
can be and will be a world in which little children everywhere can smile, can be
happy; where grown men and women find daily pleasure in their daily life;
where all the people have a measure of freedom to do the things they most want
to do; where the songs are not swallowed in the throat; where the feet are not
kept from dancing; where pleasure is not frowned upon as unfltting for those who
have grown up, because the work is too serious for joy.

First I have faith in America, in the people of America. In the long run
the people of America will be willing to pay the price of letting, so far as it
depends upon them, the people of all the world have democracy in living, which
is of far greater importance even than democracy in voting.

The people of America will be willing that all people everywhere shall
have a constantly .unfolding richness of life that permits them to do right here in
this world what in their best moments they have dreamed of enjoying in another
world hereafter.

The people of the United States and the people of the world have the
"know how" to establish this measure of heaven on earth now. All that we
need is the will to do—the will to pay the price, which is not great—for hap-
piness and deeply satisfying, abundant living depend not mainly upon gold nor
abundance of material things, but upon inner spirit, upon providing a little of
leadership. ,

On Christmas Day, 1944, I have faith that the people of- the world and
the people of the United States will open the way to beautiful and victorious
living. -

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

 

DECEMBER 1944

449

December

 

Courtesy Pennsylvania Department of H ighway:

C

450 RECREATION

Alfred Emanuel smith

By ROBERT MOSES

"He was a pioneer in many fields,"
says Robert Moses in a tribute to his
friend, Governor Smith. "In no other
field were his contributions more im-
portant, more conspicuous. more last-
ing' and more influential than in the
field of conservation' parks and
playgrounds. and recreation.‘I

HEN ,1 FIRST talked to Governor Smith,
w toward the end of his first term in 1920,

about a unihed State park program, he said
I was trying to sell the State a fur overcoat when
it needed red flannel underwear. That was the re-
action of a city man thoroughly familiar with mu-
nicipal parks and playgrounds and enthusiastic for
their expansion, but not as yet sold on suburban
and rural parks. The Governor was out of office
for two years after Nathan L. Miller defeated him
in the fall of 1920 and before he returned the com—
pliment in 1922 and went back to Albany. In that
interval I saw a great deal of Governor Smith,
whom I had met through Mrs. Henry Moskowitz
and others, and had really known only slightly in
his first term. Often I stopped in at the office of
the United States Trucking Company on Canal
Street and walked 'over to the Governor’s home on
Oliver Street with him. I was a Republican but
not in the least sympathetic to Governor Miller’s
honest and prudent but extremely narrow and
arbitrary conceptions of the role of Government in
matters of general welfare. I became one of the
Smith Republicans and remained one of the Gov-
ernor’s close friends, even in spite of subsequent
political differences.

In 1923, 1924, and 1925
Governor Smith became the
great champion of State park
and conservation improve-
ments. No one was sharper
and keener in an argument .
than Alfred E. Smith. It did
not take long to convince him
that with the advent of the
automobile and the enormous

DECEMBER 1944

Robert Moses is nationally known as
Park Commissioner of New York CityI as

President of the Long Island State Park In 1924 the State was
CommissionI and as Chairman of the New

York State Council of Parks. Mr. Moses
is serving as Chairman of the Executive
Committee selected to formulate plans
for a campaign to raise a $75,000 fund
for a memorial to Governor Smith.

 

Governor Smith takes time out for a sand-
wich at a Boy Scout outing at Bear Mountain

increase in outdoor activities, sports, and recrea-
tion, the time had come to substitute a unified,
scientific, and adequate State park system for the
scattered monuments, scientihc, historical, and oc-
casional beauty spots which through accident,
private gifts, or the temporary enthusiasm of local
people had become so-called State parks and res-
ervations. These scattered places were adminis-
tered by scores of boards, societies, and ex-officio
commissions, reporting directly to the Governor,
to other departments, and
even functioning with public
funds but without Govern-
ment control.

divided into several natural
and logical park regions, each
under an unpaid commission
whose members served for
overlapping terms, excepting
the Forest Preserve, which

451

452 ALFRED EMANUEL SMITH

 

At the celebration in I939 of the tenth
anniversary of Jones Beach State Park

was under the Superintendent of Forests. The
efforts of these regional commissions were co—
ordinated and their budget was prepared by a
Council composed of the chairmen of the several
commissions with several other members. A
$15,000,000 bond issue was submitted to the peo-
ple to finance the first steps in a unified program
based upon recreational needs. This bond issue
was carried largely through the enthusiastic day in
and day out support of Governor Smith. The
Governor said there was no good in having a pro-
gram unless someone was prepared “to head it and
see it through. Therefore, at his insistence I be-
came head of the State park system and have con-
tinued in this capacity for twenty years.

No sooner did the State park program get under
way than a terrific row broke out over the pro—
posed Northern State Parkway running along the
borders of the great estates on Long Island, Deer
Range Park, later known as Heckscher State Park,
in the estate section on the south shore of Long

Island, and the Montauk
parks which were bitterly
opposed by Carl G.
Fisher, a developer from
Florida. The bitterness
engendered by these fights
is now almost impossible
to understand, especially
as those who were ugliest
and most vociferous at
the time have long since
eaten their words and
even claim they never
were among the oppon-
ents.

Long Island in those
days was the wealthiest,
most snobbish, and most
reactionary community in
the United States. It was
at the height of the great
boom when the big estate
owners, whose names
read like a roster of
American big business
and banking, and their
various allies, stooges, and
henchmen in politics, the
professions, and the press,
were convinced that there was nothing they could
not buy and no one who did not have his price.
The pressure on Governor Smith was enormous.

"He had a Republican legislature solidly opposed to

him. They crippled not only the new Long Island
State Park Commission but the entire State park
program by withholding appropriations and by
offering to make them only under impossible con—
ditions which would have given them no power to
condemn pr0perty and would otherwise have re-
stricted their activities so that nothing of conse-
quence could be done without the approval of
hostile critics. The Governor called a special ses-
sion to consider this situation and was beaten at
the session, but among my Republican friends
were some powerful, astute, and honest support—
ers of the park program. .They went to work on
the reactionaries and brought about a satisfactory

compromise which got the park program back on
the track.

As the head of the State park system I came in
for an incredible torrent of abuse and mud-sling-
ing. Efforts were made to remove me from office.
At no time during this unpleasant period was

RECREATION

’Place where he did his

ALFRED EMANUEL SMITH 453

there ever the slightest question about Governor
Smith’s loyalty and support, and his humor, elo-
quence, increasing knowledge of the program, his
cleverness in debate, and his tremendous hold on
popular confidence finally turned the scale and
made the program a reality which today no one
would dare to upset.

When the Governor retired from public office he
became one of the commissioners of the Palisades
Interstate Park. This bi-state park began in New
Jersey, opposite New York City, ran on in a thin
line, with occasional larger areas along the top and
bottom of the Palisades, and ended in a tremend-
ous forest preserve and wild area of almost 50,000
acres in and around Bear Mountain. It could be
used by people from crowded city areas for a few
hours, for half a day, a day, over night, and for
camping and hiking over longer periods. The Gov-

ernor took a particular interest in the activities of .

the Boy Scouts in this area. Of course he never
lost his interest in Long Island where he spent a
great deal of his own leisure time, and he knew the
Long Island parks as he
knew the spot under the
highway bridge at Canoe

flounder fishing.

The development of
Jones Beach was of par-
ticular interest to him.
Here again we ran into
enormous difficulties.
First we had to get the
old Long Island town-
ships which owned the
land to give it to the State
by popular vote. This
took several years to
bring about. Then we had
to get appropriations from
rural upstate legislative
leaders who said that no
one would ever reach this
absurd sand bar thirty
miles from New York
City, that every nickel
spent on making it acces-
sible and usable was an
outrageous waste of State
funds, and who insisted
on cutting the appropri-
ations to a point at which
it would have been quite

DECEMBER 1944

impossible to carry out any comprehensive plan.
We used the money they made- available to start
the 'work, and one of the most amusing incidents in
the long controversy was an inspection by the
Chairmen of the Senate Finance and Assembly
Ways and Means committees with Governér Smith
in the fall, when a sand storm covered over the

. foundations into which we had sunk all our funds

and made it look as if these appropriations had
indeed been buried. The Governor’s faith in Jones
Beach was vindicated and it became'a feature of
the Metropolitan .area, famous and familiar here
and abroad. Some of our most distinguished for-
eign visitors said that it was the most unique and
extraordinary improvement of a natural resource
which we had to offer. ' ,

When Governor Smith moved uptown to Fifth
Avenue, opposite the Arsenal and Zoo in Central
Park, he automatically became the guardian of the
Zoo and was widely known as the night superin-

The honorary night superintendent of the
Central Park Zoo with two of his charges

 

454 ALFRED EMANUEL SMITH

Bronze s’rafue of Governor
Smifh *0 be erecfed as a
memorial *0 him in a hous-
ing development in New

York Cify which will be

named for fhe Governor

3

tendent. He knew everything that went on there,
called every animal by name, and was delighted
because most of them recognized him. It was his
favorite hangout and every spare hour he had was
put in there, usually with his grandchildren or
with other small visitors.

Governor Smith took a tremendous interest in
the expansion of the New York City parkway and
playground system, often discussed recreation
needs with me, attended the openings and flag
raisings, and offered shrewd and homely advice of
inestimable value.

In the last two years of his life the Governor
gave a good deal of attention also to slum clear-
ance for public and redevelopment housing. He
was particularly anxious to clean out the old run-
down neighborhood north of the Brooklyn Bridge
where he and his family were born and lived for
many years. He was a trustee of the New York
Life Insurance Company and tried very hard to
persuade that company to establish a housing pro j-
ect in this section. A number of inspections were
made with company officials, and it was interest-
ing to see how many people in the old neighbor—
hood knew and recognized him. When this plan
failed we persuaded the city and state housing
authorities to establish a state housing project
here, to be known as Governor Smith Houses.

In this connection, some of the Governor’s

 

friends discussed with him a bronze statue of
himself to be placed in the housing development,
with steps leading up to it on which the children
couldqplay, and with the “Sidewalks of New
York” as its theme. We had a model made and
the Governor himself gave us many suggestions to
improve it. Immediately after his death his friends
decided to make this a memorial to be paid for'by
them, and contributions will shortly be received to
carry out this plan. It is estimated that seventy-
five thousand dollars will be required to pay the
cost of constructing the memorial and of land-
scaping the surrounding area.

According to the plans which are being made by
the group in charge of the project, the memorial
will occupy a place in the playground to be in-
cluded in the plans for the Governor Smith Houses.
The housing deveIOpment will be built in the area
in New York City bounded by New Bowery,
Madison, Catherine and South Streets, and the
Brooklyn Bridge. Thus hundreds of families in
Governor Smith’s own neighborhood, whose wel-
fare was always a matter of deep concern to him,
will be provided with comfortable living quarters.

Governor Smith was a pioneer in many fields.
In no other field were his contributions more im-
portant, more conspicuous, more lasting and more
influential than in the field of conservation, parks,
playgrounds, and recreation.

RECREATIOI‘

Feet That Dance and Hearts That Sing

ms was THE HOTTEST summer that has come
Tto Philadelphia in many years! It was not the
best season of the year to “go experimenting.”
Many people were tied up for long hours in war
work. Those who could get away sought the cool
breezes in the suburbs or at near-by coast resorts.
However, there were advantages. Because of trans-

l portation difficulties most people had to remain in

I DECEMBER 1944

 

By SARAH GERTRUDE KNO'I‘T

Founder and Director
National Folk Festival Association

The Twelfth Annual National Folk Festi-
val will be held May 9-l2I I945I at the
Academy of Music in Philadelphia, under
the sponsorship of the Evening Bulletin
Folk Festival Association. Groups inter-
ested in taking part in the Festival are
urged to communicate with Miss Knott.

the city and find recreation in their own commu—
nities. There was greater need than ever before
for group recreation to felieve the war tension
felt by everyone. Young and old roamed the
streets and more than crowded the moving picture
houses and other places of entertainment.

~Elfreth Alley Day

Our first activity was the “Elfreth Alley Day”
celebration, June 3rd, commemorating the his-
toric alley which Philadelphians claim is “the
oldest street on the American continent, with
houses on both sides of the street which have been
continuously occupied as dwellings for more than
two hundred years.” The Alley is a narrow, pic—
turesque street with the original cobblestones and
thensame houses that existed before the Revolu-
tion. For the occasion United States flags hung
from the top windows of every one of the two
storied houses, giving a gala, holiday atmosphere.
Members of the Elfreth’s Alley Association,
dressed in quaint colonial costumes, greeted people
in the old houses opened for the occasion. They
led the guests from house to house where original
heirlooms of many kinds could be seen.

A Town Crier with his clanging bell cried,
“Hear Yell Hear Ye! Hear Ye l” as he an-
nounced the activities in different parts of the
Alley or in the courtyards adjoining. The families,
grownups and children, sat on the doorsteps or
wandered here and there, feeling honored to live
in these old houses so enshrined in the annals of
the historic city.

From one o’clock in the afternoon until ten in
the evening tradition-loving Philadelphians crowded

455

456 FEET THAT DANCE AND HEARTS THAT SING

the narrow street and stopped in the courtyards
for tea or to buy Betsy Ross china from the studio.
Artists made sketches of any visitor who would
paylifty cents to the Elfreth Alley Fund for restor-
ing some of the old buildings. When the sun went
down, many who wanted to stay for thé evening’s
celebration found their way to the historic old
Christ Church where Washington worshipped.
There in the courtyard in the cool summer breezes
a delicious dinner was served by the Ladies’ Guild
of the Church.

The evening’s program was something like a
three-ring circus, reflecting the spirit of the old
days. Strolling folk musicians and dancers came
and went. One end of the Alley gave forth the
strains of a guitar and accordion as Italians from
the Order of the Sons of Italy, in colorful Italian
dress, came down the Alley singing lovely Santa
Lucia and other Italian folk songs, and stopped on
the uneven cobblestones to do the Tarantella with
gaiety and abandon. On the doorsteps in the cen—
tral part of the Alley the A. C. Bilbrew Negro
Chorus assembled to sing the spirituals that had
grown up out of the burden of slavery before and
during the period when Elfreth’s Alley was young.
In the courtyard of one of the houses “Chris”
Sanderson, veteran square dance caller, with his
musicians, the “Pocopson Valley Boys,” carried on
a continuous square dance in which as many as
could be accommodated took part. Many specta-
tors crowded inside the gates to look on.

When ten o’clock came and it was time for the
curfew to ring, down the Alley from one end to
the other strolled the Street Criers, crying their
wares: “Straw-ber-ries, red, ripe straweber-ries’i;
“pep-per-ry pot, smok-ing hot, five cents a bowl l”
“Swe-e-e-t po-ta-toes, swe-e-e-t po-ta-toes l” These
old cries awakened nostalgic memories for old
Philadelphians who re-
membered well the days
when such cries were a
part of the everyday street
scene in every part of the

Fifth War Loan Drive

Then came the Fifth
War Loan Drive. Each
Wednesday evening for
four weeks beginning June
12th we brought various
nationality groups as well
as Americans with their

 

 

Three years have passed since the National
Follt Festival Association moved to Philadel-
phia. Leaving the nation's capital which had
city_ housed the festival for five of its ten years

of life was not easy. but the change proved
to be justified when, in I943. the Evening

Bulletin Folk Festival Association. the Festi-
val's new sponsor. made it possible to extend
community folk festivals in the Philadelphia
region as well as on a national basis.

Miss Knott tells us here of some of the ac-
tivities which have been promoted in co-

operation with other groups in the city of
Philadelphia and its environs.

folk songs, music, and dances to the auditorium of
Snellenburg’s, one of the large department stores.
When each program started, about one thousand f
peOple were assembled to hear the songs and see I
the dances which represented a cross-section of the
folk expressions of Philadelphia. There were Ital-
ians, Chinese, Poles, Greeks, Armenians, Filipinos,
Hungarians, Ukrainians, Portuguese, and others
representing the new American groups that have
more recently come to the country and to Phila-
delphia. There were English country and Ameri-
can square dances, Scottish dances and songs,
Negro Spirituals, and Pennsylvania German folk
songs.

One night some of the British. sailors from one
of His Majesty’s ships in port at the time sang
sea chanteys and traditional British ballads which
form a common tie ,between our country and Eng-
land. On the tinal night a group of Jamaicans
from the work project of the \Nar Food Adminis—
tration in Burlington, New Jersey, sang the Jamai-
can folk and popular songs, many of which showed
a decided English influence. Musical instruments
of the I “store-bought” or homemade Jamaican
variety were used to accompany the singing. I

When this series of programs ended we felt we
had served two purposes: one, to do our bit in '
helping to raise money for the war effort, the other,
to give to the participants and the people in the ’
audience the feeling that Philadelphia’s cultural 1

life included more than the “Main Line.”

 

Square Dancing—Outdoors and In ,

The square dance mania has hit Philadelphia, as
its revival has touched practically every large city |
and rural community. When summer came and
the indoor dances were discontinued, many peOple
felt the loss. We thought dancing in the parks
would be fun. The Super-
visor of Recreation for the
Park Commission was in—
terested and through him,
with the joint sponsorship
of the Park Commission
and the Evening Bulletin
Folk Festival Association,
this was arranged.

Our first dance was
scheduled for the middle
of July at Hunting Park.
When we arrived early we
saw that the great street
space had been roped off

RECREATION

(

FEET THAT DANCE AND HEARTS THAT SING 457

 

Forty sets of four couples each—320 dancers

in all—took part in this old-fashioned .square
dance held last August at the USO-Labor Plaza

by the Park guards. Little
notice had been given that
the dances were to take
place, so imagine our sur-
prise to see several hundred people already lined
up around the ropes waiting for the music to start.
The sound equipment truck was already in place
in the center of the street. “Chris” Sanderson and
his musicians were assembling the dancers. From
the beginning we knew by the enthusiasm of those
present that we were off to a good start and that
we were helping to answer a need for summertime
recreation in Philadelphia.

About two thousand people were present with
several hundred dancing. The next week five
thousand were there, withnmany more dancing.
Whole families, hearing the lively tunes, had come
from their homes near-by to find out what was
going on. Small children were taken into dance
groups by themselves and taught the “Heel and
Toe Polka” and other simple dances. For the third
week we moved to Strawberry Mansion in Fair-
mount Park where we stayed for two weeks, re-
turning to Hunting Park for the remainder of the
season. By the time summer was over people who
had known little about dancing at the beginning
went through the figures like veterans. The Park
Commission and the Evening Bulletin Folk Festi-

DECEMBER 1944

val Association plan to
continue the dances next
summer, beginning earlier
and including more parks.

The Teen-Agers

The teen-age and adult recreation problem is
felt in Philadelphia, as in most cities. In August,
through the interest of a committee of residents,
we had a block party on Allison Street to see how
teen-agers would react to the square dance. We
took along a number of our “strolling dance en—
thusiasts,” who had followed us from one place to
another during the summer. The square dance
was new to these young people and the “jitterbug”
was firmly entrenched. We were handicapped be-’
cause we had no loud speaker equipment and it
was hard to get the attention of a hundred or more
boys and girls out in the open, when they were in
such a high holiday mood. We experimented with
groups of about the same age at the Southwest
Belmont Branch of the Y.W.C.A. and at Oxford
Village, one of the Philadelphia’s eleven housing
projects. We met with the same general obstacles
at both places. Though we did not feel satisfied
with the results of our first efforts, we do believe
that with more definite leadership and better equip-

r ment we shall soon be having the teen-agers find

p

458

just as much fun in doing
the fascinating old square
dances as they do in the
energetic new jitterbug.
One of the boys who
came to the first dance to
take pictures, joined in
the dances and had such
fun that we found him at
all the other events. The
last night he said: “I like
these dances. They are
the very thing for us
kids. We go for the new
and novel. That’s what
they are.”

Folk Activities for Special Groups

On several occasions we went over to the State
Hospital at Trenton, New Jersey, through the in-
vitation of the Director of Recreation for the Hos—
pital. There we saw what she had done with
mental cases through the use of different kinds of
rhythms and square dances. We took our dance
leader and musicians, and it was a great satisfac-
tion to see what joy more than a hundred patients
had in doing the dances that brought them all
together in a community of interest, making them

forget for the time being
their own personal limi-

 

The Evening Bulletin Folk Festival Association"

is issuing a book. Community Folk Festival"

Hand Book, designed as a guide to leaders in
developing community folk festivals or in using
traditional expressions in a variety of ways. The
three sections cover the step-by-step organization
of a festival; material giving something of the
background of the older traditional expressions
and the new ones which have grown up in America,
with examples of songs and dances to be found in
most communities; and a bibliography of several
hundred usable books. with publishers and prices.

Copies of the book will be available at titty
cents each from the Evening Bulletin Folk Festi-

val Association. 62| Bulletin Building. Filbert and
Juniper Streets. Philadelphia. Pa.

When they danced the Heel and Toe Polka last

summer at Strawberry Mansion. Fairmount Park

FEET THAT DANCE AND HEARTS THAT SING

tations and problems.

The Labor Plaza, one
of the largest USO cen-
ters in the country, faces
Philadelphia’s old City
Hall, from whose tower
William Penn looks down
surveying the land long
ago named for him. Here
we had square dances out
in the open for service-
men and women every
two weeks during the
summer. We wondered
how square dances would
go in such a great space
with so many people

knowing little or nothing about this type of dance.
3ut with “Chris” Sanderson as leader, and the
Plaza’s regular orchestra playing familiar square
dance tunes, the servicemen and women entered en-
thusiastically into the dances. Often live hundred
couples were on the floor with thousands more
seated at the tables surrounding the great dance
floor looking on and smiling with satisfaction. As '
we saw not only our own servicemen and women, I

but enlisted men of the British, Dutch, French, and
Brazilian navies participating in the dances, we

felt that it was not only a
unique diversion for many

 

RECREATION

FEET THAT DANCE AND HEARTS THAT SING 459

but that it gave these servicemen of other coun-
tries an insight into the spirit of the United States
as expressed in our best-loved folk dance.

We know that our servicemen and women on
far—flung battle lines are glimpsing the spirit of
other peoples through native songs and dances.
Many of our festival participants have written
about such experiences and have told how people
in faraWay places have responded with enthusiasm
when they have led our square dance, or when
our Negroes have sung their spirituals. Service-

men and women in this war seem to be the best

ambassadors of good will. They, like soldiers and
sailors of all times, are borrowing the songs and
dances of other nations and are leaving theirs be—
hind them. No doubt this will mean a broadening
of horizons for many and will be a contributing
factor to international good will.

As the summer days ended and square dancing
could no longer be carried on in the parks, we
wondered how we should carry forward the inter-
est develbped during the summer. Philadelphia
has one of the largest adult schools in the country.
' Four years ago, through the vision of George F.
Kearney, who felt the need for recreational activity
as well as for adult educational courses of differ-
ent kinds, the “Junto,” a modern offspring of the
old “Junto” founded by Benjamin Franklin in
I 729, was revived. That it met the needs of
many people who were interested in “fun while
learning” was proved by the registration of more
than thirty thousand people who have enrolled in
the school in the last four years.

We were asked to cooperate here in the folk
dance division which has been directed for the last
four years by “Chris” Sanderson. A hundred and
fifty people enrolled in the course this year. There
I would have been twice the number had it not been
for the space limitation of the Mercantile Library
where the classes are held.

When Saturday evening comes, the bookcases
are pushed to the side and there, amid the
thousands of books which represent much of 'the
learning of the ages, the “old maestro,” with his
homemade fiddle tucked under his chin, fiddles as
he calls in Pennsylvania style, “Dive for the oyster,
Dive for the clam, Dive for the girl from Alabam,”
and directs the group through the intricacies of
the figures popular in this section.

During the second semester we are planning to
expand the folk dance course to include interna-
tional folk dances taught by persons who have
specialized in different nationality dances. Tenta-

DECEMBER 1944

tive plans are to have guest teachers—some from
Philadelphia, others from New York—rotate on
different evenings. Another course being planned
is one to develop leadership, especially in the
American square dance, to help meet the need felt
as more and more groups are becoming interested
in the use of this form of recreation.

As people in this section have learned more
about the plans for the Evening Bulletin Folk Fes-
tival Association, we have been asked to cooper-
ate with leaders in the vicinity of Philadelphia. We
worked with the Marcus Hood Merchant Seaman’s
Club in a “Chester Folk Festival,” the purpose of
which was to raise money for the Christmas fund
of the club to provide gifts for the merchant sea-
men. From Philadelphia we took Irish, Spanish,
Hungarian, Italian, English country dance and
American square dance groups to meet with
Ukrainian, Greek, Polish, and Scottish dancers
from the Chester community.

Early Religious Music

We have become interested in the different types
of early religious music as we have run across it'in
developing National Folk Festival programs each
year. In these days when every effort is being
made to find a common ground upon which to
stand, we thought it would be an interesting ex-
periment to find out what common traditions of
religious music have been carried down through
the years by people of different faiths. We won- “
dered if we might not arrive at a better under—
standing if we knew the significant differences.
During the suinmer, through the cooperation of
the Philadelphia Federation of Churches, the Jew-
ish Ministerial Association, and interested Catho—
lic groups, we started plans for a “traditional re-
ligious song festival,” bringing together groups of»
Protestants, Jewish, and Greek Orthodox faiths to
present outstanding examples of church music used
in early days and those that have developed later.
This Festival will take place at Irvine Auditorium
on the University of Pennsylvania campus, on
February 22, 1945, during Jewish—Christian week.

And so our plans proceed! There are, of
course, other folk activities in Philadelphia besides
those in which we have been directly interested.
The International Institute, the Play Cooperative,
and the “Folk Ways,” English country dance
group, have their weekly folk dances. Many of the
public schools as well as the universities and col-
leges are stressing. folk dancing in their physical

(Continued on page 494)

A Christmas Message t

HEN 1 STARTED to write
W this Last Word, I

found it difficult. I
could not help thinking of
our boys, scattered all over
the world at Christmas time,
fighting our battle of democracy. It seemed as if,
in spite of the desire of each of us at home to do
everything -we can to help, our contribution is so
trivial in comparison with what they. are doing
out there.

I knew that was not the right spirit in which to
approach the Christmas message, so I gave it up
and dropped into a moving picture theater where I
sometimes get inspiration. The picture was a beau-
tiful presentation of an old subject. I hope you
saw it-—“The Great Gift,” based upon the old
opera, “The Juggler of Notre Dame.” On the
screen the theme was presented in a way which
has special significance just now. You may recall
the story:

The Juggler falls ill at the door of the monastery
and is tenderly cared for by the good monks. The
youngest of them all, a brilliant, tempestuous
youth, longed to see God, but found it hard to
overcome his human frailties..
There was the old monk, whose
sweet charity was evident in
the way he replied to the Jug-
gler’s insistence that he must
not stay because he had no
money to pay for his care:
‘fWe have no money, either,”
gently replied the old monk.

And with the coming
of Spring approached the
the festival of the Blessed
Lady, when choicest
treasures were placed
upon the altar as an of—
fering—beautifully
wrought silver can-
dlesticks, lovely
carvings of wood,
iron candelabra, and
a profusion of Eas-
ter lilies.

The Juggler looked

460

By FLORENCE HALE

Reprinted by permission from "The Last
Word." by Miss HaleI which appeared
in The Grade Teacher, December I942.

". . . Not the greatness of the thing
we do; not the value of the gift we
"make: but only that we give our best!
That brings a blessing upon the small
things that even you and I can do at
this Christmas time.
inspiration for the coming year."

 
  

on and wished to do his part,
to show his gratitude. But he
had no skill in these things.
His only treasures were .his
clubs, with which he per—
formed marvelous feats. He

' eagerly approached the others at their work and

said, “See! Here are my best clubs! I offer them
gladly to the Blessed Lady!”

The young monk replied quickly, “Oh, I hardly
think . . .”

But the old monk, quick to sense the hurt to
the Juggler’s feelings, but thinking he could not
accept the clubs, said gently, “You must not give
up your clubs, for they are 'your means of liveli-
hoodf’

And so the great day came and the marvelous
gifts were heaped upon the altar. And the time
had come for the Juggler to depart. He stood on
the threshold, gazing at the wonderful gifts. He
felt he must give something. If it were not the

clubs themselves, would not the Blessed Lady ac- q

cept the very best performance he had ever given?

And so he went softly down the aisle and, before
the altar with his clubs, he performed his magic
acts.

The young monk saw and
was shocked at the sacrilege
and the old monk, summoned
hastily, felt likewise. Then, a
miracle happened! A veil
seemed to pass for a moment
over the statue of the Blessed
Lady. Look!
comes nearer, than
stretches out her
hand in blessing
upon the head of the
Juggler and, with a
look of surpassing

This is our

  
 
 
 
 
 
  

that his act has been
pleasoing in her
sight.

Here was the an-
swer to the things

(Continued on
page 499)

Print by Gedge Harmon

RECREATION

tenderness, shows'

She moves, ,

o
l

l

-.

about to go into action, be-

eoing on the Air?

RE you om: of those ex-
A ecutives who have just
had a brilliant idea
for publicizing the work of
the Recreation Commission? '
Have you decided to go
down tomorrow and ask the-
manager of the local radio
station .for half an hour each
week~— or maybe an hour
even — for telling people
about your program? If this
is a thumbnail sketCh of you

ware, take care! There’s a

green-eyed monster peering

over your shoulder who can do more harm than
any gremlin you've ever met!

Once John  Public had decided that “radio is
here to stay,” the people who had something to sell
———whether the product happened to be Ivory soap
and Oxydol or a community service—began to see
the possibilities of radio as salesman extraordinary.
Potentially radio is the greatest publicity medium
so far discovered. Actually it is the most difficult
medium to use effectively.

Consider your problem as director of recreation
for Podunk, U.S.A. The development certainly,
the very continued existence possibly, of your pro-
gram depends upon the backing of the people of
the community. Many of them know nothing of
what you are doing. Others are skeptical, to say
the least. Some of them believe in a community
recreation setup, but they want to be kept in touch
with what is going on. Newspaper publicity.
dodgers, posters cannot, you feel, bring to all
these people the full, dramatic story of your ac—
tivities. So you think of radio. You know Joe
Doaks, manager of radio station WXYZ. He be—
lieves in this thing you are doing. He is a public-
spirited citizen. He will give you time on the air
and, since everybody in Podunk listens to the radio.
your problem is solved.

Problems of «Radio Production

The chances are you are right about Joe Doaks.
He probably will give you the time—fifteen min-
utes anyway—for a program. Not only is he a

DECEMBER 1944

By ANNE I. FAULKNER
National Recreation Association

a "Potentially radio is the greatest publicity
medium so far discovered. Actually it-is
the most difficult medium to use effectiver."

In this article we have tried to
some of the things to be kept.in mind by
beginnersdn radio publicity, some of the
pitfalls to be avoided, and some of the steps
to be taken in starting a program. And iust
in case you find our presentation a little
discouraging, we'll tell you in later issues .
of successful experiments being carried on.

public-spirited citizen inter-
ested in recreation, but a
certain amount 'of his sta-
tion’s . time is ,reserved for
programs “in the public ser-
vice” by agreement with the.
Federal Communications
Commission without whose
sanction hisqcharter will not
be renewed. But neither Joe
lDoaks, nor Chairman Fly
of ;the F.C.C., inor alli the
executives of all the 399
local stations rolled into one
can assure you a listening
audience for your program,
not even in Podunk where everybody listens to
the radio. ,

Just think about' radio for a moment. Forget
that you are a director of recreation with a story
to tell and think of yourself as Mr. Average List-
ener. You come home from the office, eat a good
dinner, light your pipe or cigar or your cigarette
(if you’re lucky) and read the paper. These eve—
ning chores attended to, you turn on the radio.
You are lord of the dials in your home in the eve—
ning, so you can take your pick of programs. If
you want to be amused you can have the best
known comedians or actors in the country in
variety show or drama. You can listen to quiz
programs prepared by experts. Maybe you prefer
an evening of music. The best dance bands or the
best symphony orchestras or the best soloists are
yours for the iiick of a wrist. If what you want is
a serious discussion of world politics well—informed
experts will give it to you. Each program is care-
fully planned, thoroughly rehearsed, .aided by the
latest technical improvements that science can put
into a network studio. Whether you know it or
not, you and every other radio listener are “sub-
jected” day after day to the best radio talent that
money can buy. Whether you know it or not, you
are a connoisseur of radio. And so is every other
listener, rich or poor, businessman or farmer, man

r

point out

0 or woman or child. That is the kind of competi—

tion that you, the director of recreation in Podunk,
will be up against.
Furthermore, nothing under heaven can make

461

462 GOING ON THE AIR?

any listener “keep tuned to this station.” To turn
off a program is much easier than rolling off a
log. Why, you haven’t even paid an admission
fee which might make you sit through a poor mov1e
just to “get your money’s worth.” Yes, you’re
going to have some tall planning to do if that
fifteen minute program is going to be listened to.

What Kind of Program?

Where will you start with the planning? What
is your first question? Obviously, “what kind of
program shall we prepare?” That will depend upon
what you want the program to do, upon what you
want to say, and to whom you want to say it. Let
us assume that your main purpose is to tell as
many people in Podunk as possible as much as
possible about the recreation program. You can do
several things. You can ask the Mayor and the
Secretary of the Chamber of Commerce and the
President of the Woman’s Club and the Chairman
of the Ministerial Union to say a few well—chosen
words on “What Recreation Means to Podunk.”
At the end of the fifteen minutes you will have the
husbands and wives of the honorable speakers still
listening—maybe you will have a few of their in-
timate friends. The chances are that the rest of the
audience will have turned to Amanda of H oney-
moon Hill or to the Lone Ranger.

Well, how about getting the playground chil-
dren together for a variety show? That will kill
two birds with one stone. It will give the com-
munity a sample of the program at the center and
give the youngsters a chance to shine, which they
need. Have your ever listened to one of those pro-
grams? Have you ever listened—with an unpre-
judiced ear—to a dozen or so untrained and un—
selected children’s voices over the radio? If you
haven’t, do before you even think about such a
show. Remember, you can’t see the children. You
can’t see their eager faces, their delight in being on
the radio! You can only hear them. This is not
to say that if you have carefully selected voices,
tested over microphone, trained in a carefully
rehearsed production planned by people who know
something about radio—you can’t do a very suc-
cessful variety program with children that will
delight a large audience. Witness “Coast to Coast
on a Bus.” But if you haven’t got all this or a
reasonable facsimile—steer clear of variety pro-

grams or any programs with children. You’re not ‘

apt to have it in Podunk.

What, then, is the answer to your problem?
You could do a fifteen minute dramatization of a

story that comes out of your program. Better still,
if your friend, Joe Doaks, the station manager is
willing, you can do a series of fifteen minute drama— '
tizations for thirteen or twenty-six weeks. This
kind of a program has proven through the experi-
ence of many agencies to be the most successful
method of telling the story of a community
program.

Best Time for the Program

Your next question will be when to put the pro-
gram on. Here you are in the hands of Joe Doaks.
He is a business man with a valuable commodity
to sell. That commodity is time. Never forget that
fact when you are dealing with him. His working
day is divided into chunks. Some of it is allocated
by agreement to network programs which he had
promised to carry. Some of it is sold to sponsors,
individuals, or concerns who have paid good money
to advertise their products. You will get some of
what is left. And you will get it where Joe Doaks
sees fit to give it to you. You can bank on one
thing. It won’t be the “hour” you want! This,
however, is not an unmixed evil. If you did get
that fifteen minutes between 6:30 and 7:30 on
Sunday night youawould be competing with some
of the most popular commercial programs on the
air. So, a most amazing paradox, the “best” time
is almost inevitably the worst time for a program
originating locally. You will, probably, have some
choice. To make the most of it you will need to
consider, once again, the audience you are trying
to reach. Is it the women of Podunk? Then your
best time will be the morning or early afternoon.
Is it the youngsters of the community? Obviously
they will be potential listeners only outside of
school hours. Is it the whole family? Try to get a
time in the early evening.

If you have to choose (for a single spot pro-
gram) between fifteen minutes all for recreation
or five minutes on an already established program
(such as Mary Jane’s Advice to Women) with a
ready-made audience, by all means take the latter.
A five-minute interview in the skillful hands of
Mary Jane, who undoubtedly has a following, is
worth infinitely more than those fifteen minutes you
would struggle to fill. The moral of all this is that
radio time is more relative than Mr. Einstein’s

famous theory, and needs to be considered from
many angles: “

Getting the Program Ready

Now that you have decided on the kind of pro-
gram you are going to use and the time for it, all

RECREATION

GOING ON THE AIR? 463

you have to do is get a script, find actors and
director, produce it, and promote a listening audi-
ence. Your troubles are just beginning. The most
important single consideration is getting a good
script—a script that will hold the attention and the
interest of listeners from the first word of the an-
nouncement of the program to the last bar of the
musical signature. Inst anybody can’t write such
a script! Script writing is a definite and well—
defined craft. Occasionally, it is an art—not often.
So, somewhere, somehow, beg, borrow, or steal
the money to hire a professional script writer to
do the job. In Podunk this will probably be the
only expense you will incur except a small sum for
promotion (of which more later). Bedause Susie
Jones, your secretary, writes a good, chatty letter
is no sign that she can turn out a script good
enough to hold an audience. If you cannot pos-
’ sibly juggle the budget to allow you to pay for a
script—if you must have a script written by an
amateur—then turn the job over to an amateur
who is willing to listen to the best in radio, to read
published scripts, to study the craft before pen is
put to paper.

When you have your script, cast it with great
care. Remember, each voice must be different.
Your actors have only their voices to work with,
because your audience has only its ears with which
to follow the script. Nothing is more distracting to
a listener than not to be able to tell at once which
character is speaking. Choose characters wisely.

Bear in mind always that the audience must see
with their ears.

Promoting an Audience

Now let’s go back for a moment to you and Joe
Doaks. Joe Doaks has given you a valuable
present. He has made you a gift of time, and in
radio time is essentially money. You, in return,
owe Joe Doaks something. First of all you owe
him the best program you can possibly secure.
Your program, ideally, should produce letters and
postcards and phone calls and personal visits com-
mending Joe Doaks on his sagacity, praising him
for making a contribution to the community’s
radio listening. Your program, ideally, should
“sell” Joe Doaks’ station to the people of Podunk.

You owe Joe Doaks (and your program) a pro-
motion job. It is up to you to tell the public in
advance about the radio treat in store for them. It
is up to you to tickle Podunk’s curiosity through
newspaper publicity, through dodgers, through
posters, through announcements at clubs, by word

DECEMBER 1944

of" mouth, in any other way you can think of. It is
up to you to see that the public is anxious to know
what kind of program you will give them. You
owe it to Joe Doaks to promote a listening audi-
ence for the time he is giving you.

And you owe it to Joe Doaks to come into his
station as a guest—not as if you owned the place.
Unless you are the exception (which is unlikely)
you don’t know nearly as much about radio as you
think you do! Certainly, unless you have at one
time worked in a radio station, you don’t know
what “make the wheels go round.” Let the people
who do know the ropes tell you what to do. Don’t
you tell them. Incidentally, if you take an intelli—
gent interest in what is going on—an intelligent
interest, mind you, not a nagging curiosity—you
will probably get a lot of help from Joe Doaks and
his assistants, and, therefore, a abetter program.
It might not be a bad plan to take the time to read
a book like Earl McGill’s Radio Directing (which
is well worth the reading in any case) before your
program gets under way. It always helps to know
the special terminology of any group you’re work-
ing with.

A Last “Don’t”

By this time you probably think the game isn’t
worth the candle. There are too many do’s and
don’ts. Well, here is a last don’t. Don’t feel that
way! Radio is the best way to publicize your
program. Only radio, like all good things, must be
used, not abused. The more you know about its
pitfalls, the less apt you are to take a header into
them. Radio is by way of being one of those things
that looks so simple that everybody thinks he can
use it without thinking or without plans. The point

’of this article is to say that this is very decidedly

not the case. Nobody expects Podunk to compete
with WABC or the National Broadcasting Com-
pany. But, because of what the National Broad-
casting Company and VVABC have accomplished
in sending fine programs to everybody, Podunk
must be on its toes when it undertakes to go on
the air. It is not impossible for Podunk to put on
good programs. But good programs, from Podunk
or Radio City, take thought and care and work.

The more you of Podunk listen to the network
programs—listen to learn not just to enjoy, listen
to what you think you don’t like as well as to
what you know you do—the better chance you

will have of putting on the air fine programs of
your own.

uFood Fights for Freedom"

LIMAXING an intensive sum-
mer program in which
home vacations and other

patriotic necessities
had been emphasized.
the Berkeley Recre-
ation Department
tried a new unique
idea in city recrea—
tion planning by ..

holding a country fair on August 26th. Tradi-
tionally the last big event in the summer program
has been the playground circus; but due to war con-
ditions it was thought advisable to tie the outstand—
ing summer event in with the thing with which
everyone is most concerned—the winning of the
war. The theme “Food Fights for Freedom” was
selected early, and the planning of the fair was
built around that theme.
Interest, built up during
the victory garden contest

By CLIFTON BOYACK

Summer Supervisor of Playgrounds
Berkeley. California

"Food Fights for Freedom'I was the theme
of the successful Country Fair which was
held last summer in Berkeley. California

The marionette show was a free feature of the
lunch hour program which also included a ven-

which the Rotary Club spon—
sored under the auspices of the
Recreation Department, was
capitalized upon, and
early letters were
sent to all victory
garden entries invit-
ing them to exhibit
their victory garden
produce.

Displays and Exhibits

In addition to the displays and exhibits in
victory gardening, there were divisions of home—
craft, home canning, and home grown “livestock,”
as it was called. This included the meat-produc—
ing birds and animals that help in the war effort
or aid in the trying days of meat rationing.

Four divisions were es—
tablished for judging, with
small groupings in each

triloquistl clown actsI and specialty numbers

0 :9
g t

eusesu.

 

404

(is. ' . ~ '4
Courtesy Berkeley Daily Gazette

RECREATION

"FOOD FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM " 405

 

 

Courtesy Berkeley Daily Gazette

A small portion of the enormous crowd at

division to add additional in-
terest. There were junior
divisions, including those ' ‘
sixteen years of age and under, and senior divi—
sions for those over sixteen. It was strictly an
amateur show as far as the contest was concerned.
but several commercial exhibits added interest and
variety to the display materials. The types of dis-
plays included victory garden display, individual
vegetable display, flower display, homecrafts, ani—
mal husbandry and canning. A display entitled
“miscellaneous” showed the largest egg, the biggest
pumpkin, and other “super” exhibits. There was
a poster contest --—a junior entry entirely—~—
which was carried on through the city playground
directors as a part of their handcraft program.
Stamp and bond sales, and “winning the war”
ideas were prevalent in the poster entries.

Special points of judging were worked out and
prizes were offered in the various divisions, which
ranged all the way from a $25.00 war, bond to
boxes of garden fertilizer and garden plants. ‘

The exhibits were open from 10 A. M. to, 5 P. M., .

and during that: time an estimated 5,000." people
visited this part of the fair and gained suggestions

DECEMBER 1944

the "big show" which watched the magician
performing some of his incredible tricks

and interest in homecrafts
and victory gardening.

The exhibits and contests
were only one phase of the fair. The usual Gay-
Way was there with more than a dozen games of
skill at which to try your luck. Everything-hfrom
a bean bag toss, called “choke Hitler,” to a penny
arca'de of small interesting games—was offered for
the enjoyment of the fair crowd. On sale, of
course, were hot dogs, pop, ice cream and peanuts,
to make the day complete. The playground chil-
dren, under the direction of their playground di-
rectors, were in charge of these concessions and
food sale events, and it was evident that the boys
and girls, from barker to cashier, were enjoying
themselves to the utmost. Concessions were one
cent or five cents, and prizes were given in the
form of red, white and blue pencils, canes, and
leis.

The decoration committee did yeoman service
in placing ,huge banners and flag decorations
around the fair grounds at Live Oak Park; and
with the banners and crepe paper on the booths,
which. were specially constructed for the occasion,

(Continued on. page 494)

 

05ml}! U. 5. Navy Photograph

BermudaHby Motor

HE AMERICAN tourist is back
Tin Bermuda. He is taking in

all the sights that made this
island a Utopia for vacation—seekers in peacetime.
He gets around, this wartime tourist—but he gets
around with a difference. He uses that rare avis
of island transportation, denied by legislation to
even the wealthiest of peacetime visitors, the
motor vehicle. It’s a different type of tourist see-
ing the island now. His habit is not the usual
slacks and shorts of the prewar traveler. He is
wearing Navy Blues this trip, and he hasn’t time
to see the sights from a bike or a buggy.

U. S. Navy Recreation and USO authorities
were distressed by the hundreds of lonely sailors
on the streets of Hamilton. With a day to spend in
Bermuda the men of the fleet wanted desperately
to see all there was to see on the island. Bike and
buggy were too slow and too expensive. The rec-
reation leaders solved the problem by organizing
motor—caravans. The USO information center was
used as a starting point.

Take a typical day in the life of the “Pearl
Harbor of the Atlantic,” as the late Frank Knox
called Hamilton. A ship is in for
a day. The crew spill over the
streets. For a while they roam
around looking at the town. But
before long they drift into the
USO wanting to know “What’s
cookin’?” Well, there are Navy

466

By JACK P. HOULIHAN
Chief Specialist (A). U.S.N.R. . island is “cooking,” and for each

"The opinions or assertions con-
tained in this article are the private
ones of the writer and are not to
be construed as official or reflect-
ing the views of the Navy Depart-
ment or the naval service at large.’I

trucks outside and a tour of the

sightseer there is a recreation
guide of the island put out for the Navy by the
Red Cross. Sure—see the island without “pump-
ing a bike up and down those dusty roads!”

The boys pile in and start on their tour. The
tour conductor—from the Navy’s Welfare-Recre-
ation staff—is familiar with all the island’s points
of interest. He knows, too, something of its history
and local customs, its flora and fauna. First stop
is the Flatts USO Club, formerly the swanky
Coral Island Club. Here the boys drink cokes and
eat homemade pies, or take a dip in the ocean or
a boat ride.

When thirst and appetite have been assuaged,
the caravan moves across the inlet to the world-
famous Bermuda Aquarium. Sharks, Morays,
giant turtles, lobsters, and many other forms of
marine life ab0und in this ancient collection. Ex-
perts on the “life and customs” of tropical fish are
on hand to answer questions and supply bits and
pieces of piscatorial lore.

Next it’s “Down De Roaad,” as the native
’Mudian would say, to stop off
at another peacetime tourist at-
traction -—Devil’s Hole. This
natural phenomenom is a cav-
ernous body of water where
scores of huge rocklish and

(Continued on pay; 496)
RECREATION

I
i
l

A Suitable Stable for Hobby Horses

HE OLD BUTTER MARKET in Guelph,

Ontario, wasn’t doing anybody any

good. It just sat there beside the City
Hall with an air of faintly pathetic desue—
tude, its usefulness outlived. Or so it
seemed until the town’s youth groups got
the idea of turning it into a handcraft center for
Guelph’s townspeOple of all ages. The idea was
born in the winter and a committee of seven craft-
minded citizens went to work on plans. The City
Council blessed the project with free rent,free light,
free heat. Ingenious minds worked on the prob—
lems of how to devise homemade equipment. The
Optimist Club struck a bargain with the planning
committee. The Club members agreed to provide

1 ‘the machinery if they could use the shop on the

nights when the center would be closed.

While all this was getting done—while benches
and vises were being whipped up on the premises,
and a marvelous blackboard of tempered masonite
with .nails to serve as guide lines as well as their
usual purpose was being built, the program was
already getting under way with four craft groups
started at the “Y.” Enthusiasm among these
groups was so immediate and so great the plan-

Sufficienf space, adequate materials, and
good tools make a hobby doubly enjoyable-

 

Paul Parker Photo

DECEMBER 1944

You can ride a hobby almosf anywhere, buf
it's nof a bad idea to have a place where

hobby horses can be sfabled comfortably!

ning committee knew that though they might have
a bear by the tail they had a rainbow around their
shoulder. Classes in water colors and oils, in pot—
tery and woodworking, were open to anyone for
a six months’ period at a fee of $2.00 for adults,
$1.00 for youngsters under sixteen.

During the spring, $500 was contributed by
Guelph firms to buy the rest of the necessary equip-
ment. On September 25th, the center was officially
opened and classes were begun. The main room
of the barn-like structure became the weaving
house with three looms. Here women of all ages
struggled with their first weaver’s knots, revelled
in stringing the looms with the bright colored
thread, felt the excitement of throwing the shut-
tles for the first time. What difference did it make
if their thumbs tangled in the threads? This was
the first lesson. There would be others when skill
would grow with pleasure in craftsmanship.

In other rooms nine amateurs—lovers of their
work—were learning to manipulate materials and
tools new to them.
In the leather and
linoleum block
room a young girl,
busy with the first
stages of a braided
leather belt, called
wildly for help,
“What do I do
now?” Hand-
woven sheepskin
gloves, bedroom
slippers, leather
accessories, linole-
um block prints
would be in the
making there be-
fore long. Already
designs were be-
ing worked out

(Continued on
page 497)

Courtesy Notional Girl Scout:

467

B et’t'eir

HE CR'ISES that come in
Tsocieties and nations are  .   ..

always due to a time lag
between new developments
and existing institutions. Or-
ganized societies of people are
never living in the, same epoch
in all phases of their lives.
Their institutions tend to be-
come frozen in some previous
pattern, while life itself as—
sumes incompatible forms.

Thus we are confronted
right now, in our so-called
“enlightened” times, with unparalleled juvenile de-
linquency. It has enormously accelerated since the
war began taking mothers from their homes, ban-
ishing fathers to far places of work or even across
the seas, and filling the movies and papers with
accounts of violence. But juvenile, delinquency
cannot be attributed to the war, although the war
has increased it. It was steadily increasing long
before the war. To what can it be attributed?

. . . In truth, the rise of juvenile delinquency
must be attributed in large part to the rapid change
taking place in the world, the instability of society
as a result of it, and the inadequacy of previous
institutions in the light of it. This is eSpecially to
be noted in the inadequacy of organized recreation
for children and teen-agers.

A generation and a half ago the very concept of
“organized recreation” seemed a contradiction in
terms. Even in those days the “teeming city” was
deve10ping, but it was not so teeming as'today, nor
anything like so characteristic of the American
way of life. Commercialized recreation had hardly
begun. The average home was not nearly so com-
fortable, sanitary or laborsaving as it is today, but
it was larger. A larger proportion of the popula—
tion lived on farms or in small towns, and children
organized their own recreation, in the neighbor—
hood. Canned entertainment had not yet arrived
with movies and radio. Imaginative children found
pleasure for their fantasy in books, and the village
libraries were its chief source. Swimming holes and
skating ponds had to be reached on foot, and chil-
dren organized expeditions to them. The back
yards and farms of neighbors were the natural play

l

' 468

 

In the November, I944 issue of the
Ladies’ Home Journal, DorothyThomp-
son, discussing the growth of juvenile

delinquency. asks herself the question—
"To what can it be attributed?"

RECREATION is happy to publish ex-
tracts from Miss Thompson's replyI re-
printed by permission from the Ladies’
Home Journal. Copyright I944. The

Curris Publishing Company.

Recreation for ur Youth ‘

1 By .IQOROTHY THOMPSON

I-

centers. and through the
kitchen window somebody’s ‘
mother, if not one’s own.
usually “kept an eye peeled"
to see that the children did
not get into too much mis-
chief. Visual glimpses of far
more exciting worlds, in the '
films, than were afforded by
Sauk Centre or Big Tree did
not take the edge of enjoy-
ment off a strawberry festival
or a Grange picnic.

Millions of American chil-
dren still amuse themselves in much the same man-
ner as Huckleberry Finn or their fathers and
mothers did. But there is a difference—the differ-
ence is in the line of vision and the knowledge of
possibilities. They are not so contented because
they are more sophisticated. Even in the smallest
hamlet there lives no child who has not partici-
pated, vicariously at least, in a much larger life
than that encompassed by his own village. The
child and teen-ager are more demanding, as a
result.

And the great cities have become vast anony—
mous work and living centers. A whole village can
live in one apartment house and no single family
know another one. The child cannot play in his
neighbor’s back yard; he can, at best, play with the
neighbors’ kids in the streets, or in a city play-
ground. In all cities the playgrounds are insuf-
ficient, and in no city are there anything like ade-
quate “playgrounds” for teen—agers, who no longer
care for sandboxes, swings, horizontal bars and
other grade-school amusements. Teen-age sports
are baseball‘s—but for baseball you must organize
team, and ont-of-school schoolmates tend to scat-
ter; and tennis—but no city has more than a hand-
ful of free tennis courts in comparison with th
potential demand; and table tennis, badminton.
swimming, horseback riding———but these are stil
the sports of those who can afford to pay consid-
erable fees for them.

The theory, therefore, that the teen—ager goe.
home from school at three o’clock, with a free
Saturday, and spends his out-of—school time in
healthful sports and creative play is a holdover of '

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

RECREATION

BETTER RECREATION FOR OUR YOUTH

a simpler and less complex age. Literally millions
of children do not. If they have the change, they
drift into movies; or with a pal, they hang around
drugstores. \Vhere parents can afford it, they send
their children to private day or boarding schools,
where afternoon recreation is organized and super-
vised. But the number of city parents who can
thus provide for their children is extremely small,
as is the number of city public schools which in-
clude organized recreation in out-of-school hours.

Teen-agers hate continual obvious supervision

' by their parents. They would rather go to the

movies with a pal or a girl friend than with mother.
Wherever they go, they tend to go alone, or with
one another. But in great cities these children, on
whatever object bent, are absorbed into the anony-
mous mass, once they leave their own doors.
Mother cannof call up Mrs. Simpkins or Mrs.
Jones in New York, as in \Voodstock, Vermont, to
ask, “Have you seen Mary or Jimmy?” There is,
therefore, not a conscientious parent of a fourteen
or sixteen year old boy or girl, living in a great
city, who has not worried time and again, when the
child, supposed to be Spending the time in some
appropriate place, failsato appear when he or she

lshould.
If they go to one another’s homes, what is there

’

DECEMBER 1944

 

4419
to do ?f The home, more likely than not, is a rela-
tively small apartment, without garden or yard. In
a supervised apartment house, it is relatively safe
from fire or bu'rglary. But there supervision ends.
Often young adolescents gather in such apartment
homes without an adult present at all.

The sexual precocity of the children of this gen-
eration may be largely attributed to thesethings:
greater opportunity for sexual experimentation
and play, less opportunity for vigorous healthful
outdoor sport, and premature stimulation of the
sexual instincts through'the movies and the radio.

The small-town teen—ager is bored with the oc—
cupations that satisfied his parents at a similar age.
He expects transportation to a lake three miles
away and, if it is not available, he‘won’t set out on
foot. His father did because he had to. The bore—
dom of teen-agers in small American towns in
this generation has been vividly described by
sociologists and novelists, but still the myth per-
sists that the small town is practically a paradise
for youth. Actually most of them encourage loafmg.

A few progressive small towns have developed
recreation centers, with a stage for amateur the-
atricals; with table-tennis equipment, well—selected
magazines, a swimming pool and tennis courts for

(Continued on page 501)

.-

 

Cnurtesy South llIinneapoHs Youth Center

Living Memorials

National Groups Pass

Resolutions

RESOLUTION was unanimously adopted by the
convention of the American Institute of Park

Executives at Indianapolis, September 25—
27, 1944. declaring:

“Inasmuch as we are engaged in a great war
and many of our young men and women are giving
their lives for our country and our way of life, we.
the members of the American Institute of Park
Executives do urge that each park district actively
consider the creation of living memorials to the
memory of our fallen countrymen, such memorials
to take the form of memorial forests, parks, park-
ways and plants of various types, together with
appropriate structural developments designed to
be of service to the community; that every effort
be made to include provision for the adequate
maintenance of any such memorials which may be
created; that all park agencies participating in
such a living memorial program make a report of
progress at each annual meeting of the American
Institute of Park Executives.”

During the discussion on Design, led by Alfred
MacDonald of Wichita, many members expressed
themselves as believing that
most of those in the armed
services were opposed to the
' erection of such memorials as
would remind them of the
war. The general opinion
seemed to be that any struc-
tures erected should give a
recreational service. ——- From
Parks and Recreation, Sep-
tember-October 1944.

Another group advocating
living memorials is the Ameri-
can Legion which recom-
mended by resolution the
erection of a state memorial
in Albany honoring veterans
of World War I and 0f the
present war, and suggested
that communities erect such
living memorials as buildings
and recreation centers.

470

FOR REMEMBRANCE

How will you remember us

When war's alarms shall cease?
What signs upon the country's face
Will mark the cost of peace?

Shall we who died for freedom.
For love of things we've known——

The SWImmlng hOle.+he new-ploughed  develop  land for an in-
Have monuments of stone?

Remember us. we beg you.
The boys who loved you dear.
With monuments to freedom
Not travesties of fear.

In lakes and reaching forests.
Cool parks—a field for play
Where children. happy. fearless
Come eagerly each day.

These are the things we cherished
When lost in war's cold mists.

If you would build us monuments.
Remember us like this.

Canada Plans Living
Memorials

ll UT SOME THERE BE who have no memorials.
B . . . Their bodies are buried in peace, but
their name liveth forevermore.” To the
memory of these men and women, and for the
greater glory of all the living, Canada is dedicating
parks and gardens.

The mid-October Bulletin of the Ontario Parks
Association notes three living memorials now de-
veloping in Canada. A permanent Peace Memorial
Park will be constructed on the border between
Ontario and Manitoba and financed jointly by the
two governments. The site of the park is thirty
miles west of Kenora.

Memorial trees. may be planted in the Interna-
tional Peace Gardens as soon as the war is over.
Municipalities, towns, villages, or individuals may
participate in this program. Ten dollars from a
municipality or five dollars from an individual will
plant a tree, place an identgying marker on it, and
give it “perpetual” care. The trees will be planted
in groups or in avenues as the plans for the garden
dictate.

Ten thousand acres of lake and'woodland lie
across the Ontario-Minnesota
border between Lake Su-
perior and the Lake of the
Woods. Six thousand acres
of land, submarginal for agri-
culture, but “super-marginal”
for man’s delight is available
for a park area. Ontario and
Minnesota are planning to

ternational park, a war me-
morial to the men and women
of both countries who died in
World Wars I and II.

A number of other proj-
ects are under consideration.
The Hamilton Board of Con-
trol has voted to recommend
to City Council the eXpendi-
ture of $1,000,000 for a war
memorial arena in Scott Park, l
and $500,000 for park de—
velopments.

RECREATION

A Decalogue tor Parents

inherently-and instinctively
good and wholesome —
mentally, morally, and physically

CHILDREN BY AND large are

clean. Adult America has
refused to face this fact.
Young America demands
its recognition.

A boy of sixteen in Chi-
cago has called the parents
of America to account. His
ten-pronged advice to par-
ents regarding their re-
sponsibility to their chil-
‘dren was weighed care-
fully and found good by
delegates to the Chicago
Youth Congress held to

discuss the problem of juvenile delinquency and to

suggest cures.

Here is what youth says to its elders in its

Decalogue :

I. Make a friend of your child; take him into

By PHILIP L. SEMAN

General Director
Chicago Jewish People's Institute

Dr. Seman. the Chairman of the Chicago
Recreation Commission. is a member of the
Executive Committee of the Conference for
Youth. organized.in October. I943, whose
members are drawn from religious. civic. and
business organizations. Its obiect is to pro-
vide young people with the means tor PI'O-r
tecting their interests through their own
initiative and management.

The particular Congress from which the
"Decalogue for Parents" emerged was at-

tended by 250 delegates representing l76.000
high school students from public. parochial.
and county schools.

with kindness.

your confidence; be his buddy,
not his policeman. Remember
you were a child yourself. Show
your child the right way by ex-

ample. Make him proud to
be your offspring.

2. Make it your busi-
ness to know the where-
abouts of your child at all
times, but don’t allow him
to feel “haunted.”

3. If a child errs, it.is
chiefiy because he. has never
been shown the right way;
hence, don’t punish him
to excess, but show him
where he has faltered.
Show him the right way

4. Disciplinary action should not be shifted from

one parent to the other as exemplified by the com-

monly heard phrase, “Just wait till your father

comes home.” Threats of this nature soon become

 

DECEMBER 1944

471

472

so weak they go unheeded. The only acpomplish-
ment in making a statement of. this sort is the
child’s loss of affection for his “discipline-parent,”
and a realization of the weakness of character in
the other parent.

5. Don’t give your child the impression that he
is a nuisance when adults are present. Make him
feel that he is a vital member of his family unit
and that you are counting on him to fulfill his

.»-I DECALOGUE FOR PARENTS

working steadilygandhas developed seine excellent
projects. . The executive board of the Congress is
planning" an exhaustive survey of Chicago’s recre-
ation facilities which will be presented for action
at the fall conference. Another committee will' sur-
vey the causes of juvenile delinquency. The young
peOple have set up 3. speakers’ bureau and are
accepting invitations from various groups in the city
to speak on the subject, “What Youth Is Doing to

obligations as such.

6. It is the duty of every
father to explain to his
teen age boy the facts of
life, and his debt to society
as a man. If the father is
unable to cope with this
task, the family doctor
should be consulted, so that
the two can sit down to-
gether, “behind closed
doors” and have a man-to-
man chat.

7. It is likewise the duty
of every mother to explain
to her adolescent daughter
the fundamental truths
about life, impressing upon
her the righteous trends
of young ladies of high
character.

8. Keep the doors of
your home open to your
child’s friends—Lmake his
home his castle. If his
home life is wholesome
and enjoyable he will not
seek the haven of pool
rooms and cheap movie
houses that attract others.

9. Encourage church at-
tendance. Here he will find

THEY SAID—AT THE YOUTH CONGRESS

"At the present time we have all recognized
the problems of juvenile delinquency. but per-
haps we have overlooked the problem of
parent delinquency. which is in coordination
with our problem. In many cases where people
of high school age are delinquents. it is partly
due to the parents. They are working in war
plants and they have not made the proper ar-
rangements for the care of their youngsters
of grammar school and high school age. 1 pro-
pose that we draw up some form of instruc-
tions in regard to their children. and how their
children are to be looked after. Many children
are allowed to roam the streets while their par-
ents are unaware that they even have children."

 

"There ,have been men who have spent their
lives studying sociology and psychology. They
can't come to a conclusion. and as a last re-
sort they have come to us. the youth. to tell
them our ideas. That is why we are here. We
have spoken. and we have come to the conclu-
sion that the adults-—possibly our pa rents—are
at fault for juvenile delinquency. All right. let
it be so. We have at our disposal newspapers.
magazines. and other means of communica-
tions to the adults of the country. Let's have
this Youth Conference in Chicago draw up a
second Ten Commandments. Let's draw up a
set of rules to the parents. to the adults of the
country. If we blame them. let's aid the situa-
tion. Let's educate them through these news-
papers. and let's get down to brass tacks.”

Help Solve Its Own Prob-
lem.”

The Conference is also
sponsoring a thirteen-
week series of radio pro-
grams over WBBM to be
known as the Young Peo-
ple’s Platform. On these
programs four boys and
girls from the Conference
will discuss juvenile delin-
quency and what youth can
do to solve it. Among the
topics to be discussed under
this general heading are:
“Granting that youth had
the power to change condi—
tions, what would you pro-
pose doing first to effect-
ively combat juvenile de—
linquency ?” “Do you think
radio, movies, and news-
papers are doing all they
can to help solve this na~
tional problem?" “Do' you
think it should be made
mandatory that parents be
brought to trial along with
their children who are de-
linquent ?’-’ “What agency,
organization, or force do
you think could most ef-

many attractions awaiting him, such as clubs.
dances, parties —- and at the same time he will
acquire a code of morals and ethics which are ex—
tremely vital in regard to his present and future
relations with people.

10. Instill within your child a love for his coun-
try. See that his energies are utilized in Red Cross
work, scrap collecting, bond selling, and other
patriotic movements of high caliber. A busy child
has no time for immoral practices.

The Youth Congress elected an executive commit-
tee from its membership. That committee has been

fectively prevent uvenile delinquency?”

One of the projects of the Chicago Conference
for Youth is the publication of a series of pamphlets
showing the folly of juvenile delinquency. These
booklets will be written by boys and girls to other
boys ‘and girls advising against the errors that chil—
dren unthinkingly' permit. The executive com—
mittee of the Conference will help with the editing
and preparation of this material.

NOTE: There are available a limited number of
the reports of the Chicago Youth Conference held

(Continued on page 499)

RECREATION

ll

!
l
1

M * Al: the New Yorkcenter

m

0 CREATE at the New

York City Center an in—

spirational focal point
and a model for future art
centers, and the spirit of a
new and greater democracy
to come, is the vision of
those men and women who
are working closely with the center, according to
Leopold Stok’owski, who has donated his services
to the center for the duration of the war. The
noted conductor, in announcing some of the specific
plans for the remainder of the season, also dis-
cussed the broader concept of the center as an
eventual home for all the arts, and as an example
’ of the kind of practical idealism which can iiourish
now and which should obtain when there is a
wider base for musical culture possibly to come
through government sponsorship.

Immediate events under his direction will be the
concerts of the New York City Symphony which
have already been successfully launched, a series
of concerts for students to begin after Christmas, a
Christmas festival for and by children, and the
production of two contemporary operas.

SpecialStudents’ Concerts

“We are going to schools, colleges, universities,
vocational schools and orphanages for audiences
for our special students’ concerts,” said Mr. Sto-
kowski. “They will be still more informal than
our regular symphony series. I shall discuss cer-
tain passages in the works to be played, have these
passages played, explain the ideas of structure,
orchestration and development, not academically
but simply, and then let the music speak for itself.
Soloists will be chosen from among young talented
Americans of the students’
age range— 15 to 25, and
music of young American

There was‘a time when art was for
the privileged few. But now comes
an entirely different conception.
Art is for every man. rich or poor,
with no racial or other barrier.

the theater and in the foyer
as projects in their art
classes. They will also
assist in the distribution
of tickets.

‘ “At the last student
event, several of the best
student orchestras will give
the concert. Each will play a work under its own
conductor and 'all will join in one work to be ~
selected, which I shall conduct.”

Beginning this Christmas, it is the hope of Mr.
Stokowski to give an annual holiday festival for
children. This year there will be one performance
two days before Christmas eve and two perform-
ances on Christmas eve, the second to begin at
II :20 and end at midnight, when Christmas bells
will be heard. The birth of Christ will be depicted
in costume on the stage by. children in pantomime,
while the orchestra plays in the pit, and at the sides
and up steps to the stage, forming a frame, will be
ranged the Collegiate Chorale, whose conductor is
Robert Shaw. Music from Bach’s “Christmas Ora-
torio” and Yule folk music from all over the world
will be used for this presentation. Behind the
stage will be a transparent screen on which will be
thrown projections by a noted projectionist, Sond-
heimer, with designs and costumes by Robert
Edmund jones. Other collaborators will be Anita
Zahn, a former Duncan pupil, and Helen Park-
hurst, founder of the Dalton School.

“It is fundamental with us,” Mr. Stokowski de—
clared, “not to have ‘specialists,’ but to work as
comrades together on the entire presentation. I am
interested in the music, but so are Mr. Jones and
the others, and I am concerned with the staging and
all the other elements of the production. So we
shall not have ‘credit lines’
but shall simply call our-
selves collaborators in the

 

composers as well as of the
great masters will be played.

“Students will participate
in many other ways. They
will write program notes as
a project in English com—
position classes, and design
the program cover and post-
ers to be displayed outside

DECEMBER 1944

Because the experiment in the democra-
tization of art at the New York City
Center is so significant. we are reprinting
some extracts from an article by Frances
Quaintance Eaton which appeared in the
November issue of Musical America. In
this article Leopold Stokowski discusses
his aims and plans for the Center which.
he hopes: will be "truly representative
of our national and universal culture."

whole conception of the
production.”

The symphony concerts
have been divided into Fall
and Winter series, and the
Tuesday evening concerts at
6:00 will continue at that
hour as long as it seems a

(Continued on page 496)

473

The Part of theY.W.C.A. in Community Planning

HESE ARE DAYS when
Tthere is a great deal of

peering into the future
and of getting ourselves
ready for what that future
may bring. Postwar plan-
ning is going on with vary-
ing degrees of realism and
effectiveness in practically
every organization, public
and private. When circum-
stances are in the present
exaggerated state of flux it
is natural that we should try
to keep our footing by at-
tempting to see ahead and

to plan accordingly.
One of the healthiest habits to cultivate at such

a time, I believe, is to look realistically at the
present since in it the seeds of the future must
already be found. In thinking of the future plans
of the Y.VV.C.A. in the community, therefore, I
should like to point out several very important
trends already evident. I should then like to dis-
cuss briefly what meaning these may have for
those responsible for planning the organization’s
program.

Important Trends

The first trend that is of major importance to
the organization is the increased recognition of the
value of recreation and informal education for all
sections of the population. The evidence of this
new recognition can be seen in the following
familiar facts:

The extensive provision of such services as es-
sential for the armed forces, under the auspices of
the government itself and of the USO and the
Red Cross.

The rise of the teen-canteen program in many
communities and the growing awareness of ado-
lescent needs.

The extension of recreation services, especially
to war-impacted communities through the Recre-
ation Division of the Federal Security Agency.

The opening, with Lanham Act funds, of day-
care centers for the school-age children of working
mothers as well as nursery care for younger
children. “

474

By GRACE L. COYLE

Western Reserve University

Miss Coyle's article. though addressed to
local Y.W.C.A.'s. contains so much of inter-
est and help to all community agencies
planning recreation programs that we are
reprinting it. Recreation workers will espe-
cially appreciate Miss Coyle's plea for the
support of public recreation bodies and the
expansion of their facilities and programs.

The article originally appeared in the
September issue of The Womans Press,
and is reprinted by permission.

 

The organization under
OCD and in the extracur-
ricular program of public
schools of war-service activi-
ties for children and youth.

The increased pressure on
all the regular agencies for
more services.

 

These are only the most
obvious developments with
which we are all familiar.
Taken together they indi-

_ cate, I think, a sudden ex—
pansion in demand for all
kinds of activities, programs,
equipment and leadership
which amounts to a new

place accorded these services as essential for the
whole population.

As this expansion has occurred it has become
increasingly clear that it is of three distinct types.
The great bulk of it consists of activities of rec-
reational or light educational value which exist for
straight purposes of diversion, entertainment, re-
laxation and the pleasures or profit derived from
the activity itself or the sociability connected with
it. In the second place, there is a type of program,
carried on principally by the large private agen-
cies, in which activities are to greater or less extent
permeated by certain specified educational pur-
poses of the organization. These purposes pre-
sumably color the recreation and add, to the
pleasures derived from the activity itself, certain
social values, cultural interests, religious concepts
or “character-building” results which have been

defined by the organizations under whose auspices '

the activity is set up. Familiar illustrations of this
difference can be seen in the program of a typical
public recreation center compared with the pro-
gram of the Y.M.C.A., the Boy Scouts, the C.Y.O.
or the Jewish Center. Not all public agencies are
without flavoring—as witness the 4-H clubs or the
Junior Citizens Service Corps of the OCD. Not
all private agencies are in actual fact providing
activities with any distinct flavoring—as witness
much of the athletics, dancing, adult education
classes carried on in the Y.W.C.A. This difference
lies not in whether an agency is public or private,
but in whether a specific activity is actually pene-

RECREATION

THE PART OF THE Y.W.C.A. IN COMMUNITY PLANNING 475

trated to any real extent by purposes beyond those
of the activity alone. This is admittedly hard to
distinguish but roughly the difference is clear and
is well recognized by all of us in the field.

A third type of service developing slightly here
and there is the use of group relations and recrea-
tion activities for treatment purposes for individ-
uals who are physically, mentally or emotionally
handicapped. This is found in the military hos-
pitals to some extent, in certain clinics, in camps
for the handicapped and in a few community
agencies.

A second major trend is the new place given to
programs for youth. The place given to youth
programs in the totalitarian countries, and recent
new developments in England, have hastened the
recognition that these programs of the large youth-
serving agencies are an essential part of the way
by which society prepares its young to participate
successfully as adults. Such programs, along with
the public school and the control of work experi-
ence for the young, are outside of the family, the
major instrument through which we can bring each
generation into its proper place in our society.
Here again I think the war has hastened a realiza-
tion of the social significance of these organiza-
tions—of which the Y.W.C.A. is one. The need
to define how youth activities are to be carried out
in democratic countries is now of concern to those
responsible for such pro—
grams.

A third major trend of

 

DECEMBER 1944

The Penn Dutch Canteen at York. Pa.. is

only one example of the many services es-
sential tor the men in the armed forces

special importance for the future of the Y.W.C.A.
is the changing place of women. As during all
recent wars, women have, since 1940, moved in
increasing numbers into work outside the home.
In many cases, they have had to assume responsi-
bilities for bringing up children without the im-
mediate help of the fathers. They have been urged
to go into new lines of work but always with an
overhanging uncertainty as to whether their place
will be secure “when the boys come home.” There
seems to be considerable evidence that women
have made no marked advance into more skilled or
more responsible jobs and certainly there is no
proof that they can rely on a “grateful country” to
guarantee them their newly won positions when
the war is over! Many, also, are having unusual
and inevitably unsatisfactory experiences with
marriages in which the war prevents the necessary
adjustments or makes it impossible for them to
start as they should on the making of permanent
homes of their own.

A fourth important aspect of our social scene is
the changing picture of race, religious and na-
tionality relations. This is bringing belated and
all too slight advances in certain ways. It is also
increasing tension, and at points is giving rise to
flagrant expressions of prejudices relatively new
in America and full of serious import for the future.

These are only a few of what seem to be
elements in the making of
that future for which the
Y.W.C.A., along with other

476 THE PART OF THE Y.W.C.A. IN COMMUNITY PLANNING

 

There is need for the extension of recreation

Similar organizations, is services so that many more children may enjoy
such events as the doll show at ChesterI Pa.

now trying to plan. What
bearing do they have on
its projected program?

Their Bearing on the Program

The first step is to recognize the distinction pre—
viously mentioned, between the provision of “un-
flavored” recreation and the provision of a program
which has a unique core of social ideals and pur»
poses. In these days when the demand for recrea—
tion services is rising there is great pressure on
existing agencies to provide anything and every-
thing to meet urgent needs. The Y.VV.C.A. must
obviously not retire to an ivory tower or merely
“keep its home fires burning” regardless of the
demands of those outside. On the other hand, it
should not lose its identity and become a recrea—
tion or education center without any flavor of
its own.

The Y.W'.C.A. must, it seems to me, do three
things simultaneously. First, it should unite with
other organizations to push for expansion of pub-
lic recreation facilities of all kinds. This will
provide the minimum of equipment and leadership
to meet the insistent demand for more recreation

activities. Instead of being
somewhat afraid of such
developments—~as has

r sometimes been the case—it should see that the

demand for basic recreational opportunities is so
great that it can be cared for only by public
sources. Much of this recreation should be free,
available to all parts of the population and for
those who want it without the necessity for accept—
ing any organizational flavor in order to get the
activity. Such an extension of these activities will
relieve pressure on the Y.VV.C.A. to do things not
vitally within its function and will free its money,
staff and equipment for its unique functions, I
believe the pressure for adequate public recreation
facilities should become a part of the Public Affairs
program.

In the second place, the Y.VV.C.A. will need
to accept the fact that it may be a long time before
enough such facilities will be provided publicly.
In the meantime, it cannot refuse to help meet
urgent community need. As an emergency meas—
ure, therefore, it might carry on for war workers,
small boys near a branch, boys and girls without
a decent place to dance, and similar groups, a
variety of activities which meet straight recrea—

RECREATION

THE PART OF THE Y.W.C.A. IN COMMUNITY PLANNING 477

at“

I tional needs but do little else. These will often
indistinguishable from those of any other agency,
I public or private. So long as they are recognized
as temporary expedients which the Association is
' carrying only until they can be taken over by'the
public or by some other more appropriate agency,
' they will not get imbedded in the program or

| confuse the real purpose of the agency.
As a third step, I believe the Y.W.C.A. needs to

sharpen and define even more clearly that core of
social ideals which is its Special contribution to the
social scene. Such a core is obviously a living and
changing entity, shifting with the times—but still
expressing a certain unity which grows out of the
traditions of the organization and the ideals of its
present leadership. This is clearly no place to
define such a core. It is the function of the whole
Association to do so, both formally through its
.convention and informally through its everyday
contacts with pe0ple in itsncommunity.

It seems to me that in the days ahead the core of
social purpose of the Y.W.C.A. should give some
clear guidance at certain crucial points. Judging
by its past and by what I know of its present, I
would suggest that this guidance be focused on at
least the following: (1) Assistance to women in
dealing with the new problems arising around work
and marriage—problems which the postwar period
will sharpen still further. (2) A clear stand against
racial and religious discrimination as inconsistent
with the Christian purpose of the organization.
(3) A dynamic belief in the need to extend demo-
cratic,participation into areas of our social life still
dominated by feudal ideals. These include certain
industrial] relations where unions are not yet
admitted to active participation with management.
They also include certain kinds of community
rganization like Welfare Federations or Councils
of Social Agencies where larger participation
‘hould be sought from minority groups, labor, and
thers not always consulted at present. This might
ven include board and staff relations inside the
.W.C.A. itself in a few instances! (4) Assistance
11 defining a new world order based on the respon-
'ibility of each nation to the whole and an appre-
iation of cultures other than our own. (5) An
nterpretation of religion adequate to our times.

I am, no doubt, only listing the obvious in men-
ioning these five points as the preeminent contri—
ution — or potential contribution — of the Y.W.
‘.A. It may well be that there are other equally
mportant facets of its life. All I am urging is that

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
   

reation services and merely go out to provide
them—at least not permanently. I hope rather that
it will say in clear and compelling ways what it
believes about the important meaning of life for
our generation. Moreover, as it constantly defines
those meanings it must work more effectively on
securing the participation of its members and con-
stituency in the process of such definition and also
on promoting such a program through its com—
munity. 0

Joint Planning Essential

Finally, I should like to make one further sug-
gestion about the contribution which the Associa-
tion might make to itscommunity.= In nearly every
community now, large or small, the Association
works with others in some kind of federation or
council. It is through such bodies including both
public and private agencies that the planning
should be done for the total volume of recreational
and educational services. The experience of vari-
ous organizations which are trying to work to-
gether in this way points up the need both for
skill in cooperative effort and for a new kind of
organizational ethics. If such , planning is to be
done effectively, a new type of leadership will have
to emerge.

The Y.W.C.A. can help to develop this type of
planning, I believe, by its own attitudes and
methods. It can do such things as the following:
(1) Encourage a generous and cooperative rela-
tion between public and private agencies or be-
tween potentially competitive youth agencies.
(2) Urge representation in planning bodies from
important groups not usually included—as men—
tioned above. (3) Refrain from organizational
jingoism or extreme individualism and try to get
others to do the same. (4) Insist upon high levels
of qualified personnel with adequate salaries based
on competence and without sex or racial discrimi-
nation—not only for its own staff but in all agen-
cies. (5) Maintain orderly and fair procedures in
such overhead bodies, thus helping to eliminate
vested interests and power politics among agencies.
(6) Help planning bodies to concentrate always
on the services to be rendered and the need for
them—not on the maintenance or promotion of the
existing agencies as ends in themselves. Here
again I am only suggesting areas in which I believe
new steps need to be taken.

The Y.W’.C.A. cannot plan for itself alone. It
must play its part in the wider community both by

(Continued on page 499)

Village Green

the English village; like

so many other things
peculiar to Britain it just hap-
pened. Yet in some respects this
natural happening followed a definite plan. For
instance, the houses of the village have always
rallied, so to speak, around the church, the inn
and usually the school.

Adjoining these three key buildings was a patch
of green grass of from five to ten acres. In some
counties this was unfenced, in others it was a
fenced pasture flClCl used primarily as a grazing
ground for “stock; but, fenced or unfenced, farmed
or not, it was the village recreation ground, on
which all sport, shows and outdoor jolliflcations
took place.

No villager ever thought of it as The Recreation
Ground, or referred to it familiarly as “The Rec.”
That sort of thing was scorned as merely weakness
of towns; villages preferred the names handed
down from generation to generation. Thus, un-
fenced, this piece of grassland was known as The
Village Green; fenced and farmed, it boasted all
sorts of titles such as Show Place, Circus Ground,
Cricket Field, or simply Ten Acre.

Since time out of mind the work of the villagers
was done in the rolling fields around the village,
but their pleasure was enjoyed upon the Green.
Until war came, here was held the annual village
Flower Show—r—in July so that it should come
between haymaking and harvest when the land
could be neglected for a full day without much
harm coming to it. In a flat green pasture a large
ring was fenced off for the mounted gymkhana, a
huge tent for the flower show, and also, something
difficult to believe today, hundreds of cars parked
in the shade of immemorial elms.

Inside the tent it was much too hot for comfort,
but not too hot for interest; for here the squire’s
garden competed with the cot-
tager’s, and the justice of every
award was criticized by dozens
of qualified experts. One over-
heard such remarks as, “Ees, I
beat Bill Brewer fur taters, but
nobody cain’t touch ’im fur
onions. Ye zee, working fur the

butcher, ’ee kin git blood.” A

N 0 ONE, presumably, planned

478

By A. G. STREET

ReprintedI by permissionI from the
DecemberI I943, issue of Britain

"SoI while the war lastsI the plough
will rule the Village Green, but as
soon as war finishes. we shall sow
down those few important acres
to grass once again, and in July
hold our Flower Show, as our fore-
fathers did since time out of mind."

gruesome thought perhaps, but
an undeniable advantage to Bill.

If you wished to take the
taste away, you moved on from
vegetables to homemade wines,
discovered that well-matured parsnip wine has a
stiffish kick, and perhaps managed to buy a bottle
of mead. Of course, to sell mead without a license
was illegal, but who cared? After all the village
policeman was outside watching the jumping.

Having carefully hidden your illegal purchase in
your auto you joined the policeman and watched
the jumping. You marveled at the feats of horses
that had won at Olympia; but you thrilled when
the small daughter of a duke on a blood pony
fought out the final of the musical chairs with the
small daughter of a smallholder on a fat twenty-
year-old shaggy pony that had been hauling the
milk float that very morning.

You watched the carthorse parade, huge Shires.
and Suffolk Punches groomed to a shine and be-
decked with jingling brasses. You joined the keep-
ers and their friends in one corner of the field and
lost a few shillings to them at. clay pigeon shoot-
ing. And, as the huntsman paraded his hounds in
the big ring, you wondered just why it was that
this one remaining bit of rural pageantry was, in-
modern language, O.K. for color, sound, and music.

Such was Show Day on the Green. Every sum-
mer Saturday, too, you watched or played cricket,
there, and every winter Saturday you witnessed or.
shared in the football battles between say Sedge-
bury Wallop’s Saints, and Marston Meysey’s
Wanderers. Perhaps in early spring the traveling
circus tent was set up there for one thrilling after-
noon performance. Perhaps in early childhood
you picked violets along the hedgerow of Show
Field. Young or old, your life as a villager re-
volved around those few acres of green grass.

When war came the activities on those acres
changed, but the Green still pro-
vided the setting for village life.
There the one-time cricketers
drilled as Home Guards, or
practised as the local F ire Bri-
gade. There the village police-
man demonstrated how to deal
with incendiary bombs, and the

(Continued on page 497)

RECREATION

Home Recreation Atter the War

EOPLE ARE activity-conscious. They have per-
force been held down during the long war
period. When the war is over, their desire to

do things and go places will be multiplied many-°

fold. Unless this desire is channeled and con-
trolled, it will get out of balance and wreak havoc.
A recreation program in the home, in the school,
in the church, and in public areas financed by
public funds should be organized and planned now
if America is to stay on an even keel after the
lighting is over.

Our society is based upon the structure of the
home and the family, but little has been done
consciously to promote home recreation. We need
.to develop a sound program for families together
in the postwar world—starting with the physical
setting. The homes of tomorrow must be more
than places to eat and sleep. Slums, crowded city
areas, and small, ill-planned city homes, disastrous
alike to the play of childhood and the social enjoy-
ment of adults, must be no part
of the building plans of the
future. Tomorrow’s homes must
have grounds for ‘a garden of
fiowers or vegetables. We need
to go back to the era when gar-
dens were behind the house, not
miles away in some vacant lot at
the city’s limits. City dwellers
. must be able to have and enjoy
trees, flowers, and shrubs about
their homes. Rural people must
have homes with modern con-
veniences on good roads. They
must have opportunities for more
social living.

America needs to build morale
for peace as she has built it for

:l'he home ot tomorrowI it is to
be hoped' will have plenty of 1,,
ground for a garden. "We need ‘
to go back to the era when

gardens were behind the house.

not miles away in some vacant
lot at the city's limits."

DECEMBER 1944

By HOWA‘RD G. RICHARDSON
Assistant Supervisor
Physical and Health Education
Virginia State Board of Education

war. The family must learn to play together, as
well as work together for a livelihood. The Na-
tional Recreation Association’s statement, “A
family that plays together, stays together,” is a
vital necessity for thinking about the world of the
future.

A home recreation program needs leadership
from some member of the family. A desire to take
part in some home activity will probably find
echoes in the interests of other people in the neigh-
borhood. Neighborhood groups can be organized
along lines of common activity interests for chil-
dren or fathers or mothers or whole families. But

(Continued on page 498)

 

479

A Negro One-Act Play Tournament l

' By Lovo HATHAWAY

Recreation Department
Winston-Salem. North Carolina

N ET’s PUT ON A PLAY l”
Magic words—words
that can be counted on

to elicit a chorus of ap-
proval. Negroes, especially,
have a love of drama born
in them. They take to act-
ing as naturally as a duck
takes to water.

In 1935 the Winston-
Salem Recreation Depart-
ment organized a one—act
play tournament for Negro
citizens. Eleven clubs en-
tered the meet. Each year
since the number of entries
has increased, until in 1944 twenty—four clubs had
applied two weeks before the date for the close of
the entries. Since there is a limit of twenty entries,
the first twenty to hand in entry blanks and fees
were accepted and the remaining clubs were placed
on the waiting list to take the place of any groups
that might have to withdraw from the tournament.
The response of participants has been most grati-
fying. A capacity audience came each night for
five successive nights of a tournament week to see
the plays.

Leadership, Professional and Volunteer

The Recreation Department does not have a
dramatic specialist. In October of each year, the
Department secures the services of two dramatic
leaders for one night each week. One of these
leaders meets dramtic clubs at a recreation center,
and the other, the chairman of the drama tourna-
ment committee, works from her home. All other
dramatic direction is given either by volunteers,
including several members of the committee, or by
the neighborhood recreation directors. In spon—
soring dramatic activities, the Recreation Depart-
ment has paid only two leaders for one and one-
half hours work per week, from the middle of
October until April.

The leaders, paid and volunteer, assist individ—
uals and groups in the various neighborhoods in-
terested in dramatic activities. They have not
limited their work to groups interested in the one-
act play tournament. In some cases, they have

480 '

 

Many people feel that comparatively lit-
tle has been heard of drama tournaments in
the past few years only because transporta-
tion difficulties have been so great. and
they believe that after the war there will
be a greatly increased interest in these
events. It has seemed worth while. there-
fore. to publish in some detail the tourna-
ment rules so carefully worked out by the
Winston-Salem Recreation Department.

helped to organize clubs and
direct plays, but the major
effort has been in helping
groups select and order
plays, choose casts, and
solve the many other prob-
lems involved in organizing
a club and producing a play.
While some of the clubs
meet at the recreation cen-
ters, the majority of'them
organize and have their reg-
ular meetings in homes and
churches. The dramatic
leaders keep in contact with
the different groups and
visit some rehearsals in order to stimulate interest
and keep the clubs together, but a big part of the
work is done by the members of the clubs them
selves. The members of the drama tournamen
committee have played a large part in holding th
clubs together from year to year by keeping in
contact with the directors of the clubs over the
telephone, at churches, and at various club meet-
ings. The success of the tournament is due in .
large part to the interest and year-round work 0
this committee.

Organization and Promotion

In the early fall, about the time the dramati .
leaders start their work, the latest catalogs ar l
secured from all leading play publishers and place
in recreation centers in three neighborhoods. I1 '
the fourth neighborhood, the chairman of the dra '
matic committee keeps the catalogs at her home
A mailing list of approximately I50 people inter
ested in dramatics has been built up during th
past ten years. In October of each year, a posta *
card is sent to the people on the mailing list, stat
ing that the Recreation Department will sponso
the dramatic tournament, that. catalogs will b
available at the four centers, and that assistanc
will be given all groups by the dramatic leaders 0
a given night each week. An article is usually ru1 ~
in the' Sunday edition of the local paper in Decem
ber, emphasizing the fact that the tournament will}
be held. 'I

The drama tournament committee usually meets.

RECREATonf,

 

A NEGRO ONE—ACT PLAY TOURNAMENT 48]

early in January to draw up rules and to set the
date for the tournament. The rules are mimeo—
graphed and sent to the people on the mailing list,
together with a letter bearing the names of the
drama tournament committee. Each person on the
list is invited- to enter a club in the tournament.
Several newspaper articles follow in Sunday edi-
tions of the paper. Usually additional postal cards
are sent to each person on the mailing list, giving
the closing date for entries and urging clubs to get
in their entries early. As soon as a club enters, in-
structions are sent to the director. The instruc-
tions include among other things, an invitation to
meet with the tournament committee on the night
that entries close. This meeting gives the tourna-
ment‘committee an opportunity to answer ques-
tions for club directors, and to distribute posters
to be placed in the various sections of the city to
help advertise the tournament.

Each club entering the tournament is given as
many tickets as it wants. The money from the sale
of tickets is turned in to the treasurer of the tour-
nament committee. ,After overhead expenses are
deducted, the remainder of the money is returned

. to the clubs in proportion to the amount of money
‘ reported from the tickets sold. On Monday night
following the close of the tournament, the commit-
tee meets with club directors, and all clubs that
have completed their financial reports are given a
check for the amount of money due them. Regard-
less of the amount of money that clubs have turned
in to the treasurer of the tournament committee,
they do not get a refund until
every ticket has been accounted
for.

The first year of the tourna-
ment all clubs that entered were
grouped in one'classitication. Be-
cause of the difference in the age
and abilities of the players, it was
necessary the second year to
group the clubs into three classi-
fications. As a rule, clubs state in
which class they belong and the
tournament committee has had to
re-classify very few clubs.

The tournament is held in an
. elementary school building, which
the school board allows the rec-
reation department to use for the
actual cost of light, heat, and
janitor service.

At the request of people entered

DECEMBER 1944

in the tournament, an original play contest was
added. Froin three to five original plays have been
entered in the contest yearly. The original plays
are judged and scored before the tournament.
Since this is a playwright’s contest, a different set
of judges is used to judge the original plays. All
original plays are required to be presented in their
proper classification in the tournament.

Rules for Contestants

The rules which follow were written after secur-
ing material'from the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and from several recreation departments
that had sponsored such a tournament. Some of
the rules may be identical with those used by rec-
reation departments that sent us c0pies of their
material. It has been necessary, of course, to
make changes in our rules from year to year to
suit the local situation.

Any Winston-Salem dramatic club whose cast is com-
posed of members fifteen years of age or over may enter.
All major parts 'of plays must be played by persons
fifteen years of age and over.

Not more than-twenty clubs may compete. Entries will
be accepted in order of receipt of registration fee until
the above quota has been filled.

No professional actor shall be employed in the pre-
sentation. By “professional” is meant a person who
makes acting his vocation and earns his living in that
manner.

No person may participate in more than one play during
the tournament except as follows: A person may direct
and play in the same production in any classification. or
direct a play in one classification and play in a produc-

 

482 A NEGRO ONE-ACT PLAY TOURNAMENT

tion in another classification. No person may participate
as a player in more than one production and no person
may direct or coach more than one production.

The tournament will be divided into three classifica-
tions as follows: (1) school a-ge—15-20 years; (2) com-
munity inexperienced; (3) community experienced. Clubs
will decide in which group they are to be placed. The age
and ability of the majority of the players in the cast will
determine the group in which a club will be placed. The
committee reserves the right to pass on all questions
raised regarding the grouping of clubs.

A cup will be awarded to the play judged the ‘best in
each classification. A cup will also be awarded to the
best original play. These cups, except the one for the
best original play, are to be held by the winning group
one year. They will be oompeted for again at the next
tournament. The group winning a cup three times, not
necessarily in succession, will become permanent owners.
The person winning the best original play contest each
year will become permanent owner of the cup.

Plays are limited to one set and must not be more than
forty-five minutes or less than fifteen, and must have no
less than three actors. No play presented in the tourna-
ment in the last three years may be used. One act of a
long play, musical or dancing specialties, may not be
entered.

Entries open on January 17th and close March 20th, or
as soon as twenty clubs have paid their entry fees. The
name of the play to be presented in the tournament, to-
gether with the names of those in cast, the synopsis of
the play, and other information requested by the com-
mittee must be submitted by March 27th.

The committee shall meet with the directors of clubs
at 7:30 on March 20th, the night that entries are closed.
All directors are urged to be present for this meeting.

A copy of each play must be sent to the com-mittee for
approval by March 20th, No two organizations may
enter the same play. '

Three typed copies of all original plays must be sub-
mitted to the committee by March 27th. ‘The judges for
the playwrights’ contest will read and score them before
the tournament. The plays. will then be presented during
the tournament in their proper classincation.

An entrance fee of one dollar per club shall be paid
upon registration. This fee is not returnable in event of
withdrawal. No member of the committee shall be al-
lowed to stand responsible for entry fee, royalty, or any
other expense for a club. Entries will not be accepted
unless a club is sponsored by an adult.

The committee will furnish gray drapes as a back—
ground which will be used by all clubs.

The committee will furnish four pieces mf furniture
which will be a settee, two chairs, and table to match.
Each club will furnish remainder of furniture, including
such items as stairs, bookcase, and other specialties. One
club will not be allowed to use the properties of another
club without the special permission of the club owning
the properties. Each club must furnish its own stage crew.

Foot and border, one spot, and two floodlights will be
provided. All additional lighting equipment, including
gelatine, must be furnished by production.

Tell what backings of doors and windows are to be
lighted. Give this information on ground plan sheet. '
Your electrician will be responsible for operating lights
for your production. The tournament committee will pro-
vide a lighting expert to work with each group.

Lighted table or stand lamp should have connections |
adjusted at least one day before rehearsal. Extension
cords, plugs, etc., will be provided by committee.

Cigarettes, candles, lamps, or other open flames must _
be furnished by production.

Equipment for wind, rain, thunder, and lightning are
available. Other off-stage noises such as auto horns, etc.,
must be furnished by the production.

The committee will furnish a telephone.

Each contesting group must be responsible for its own
royalty, and receipt for payment to play agents must be
presented to the committee twenty-four hours before the
performance. Failure to comply with this rule will be
considered an automatic withdrawal from the contest.

All scenery, properties, and effects of each group must
be at the Fourteenth Street School on the afternoon of
the day of the production. Properties must be clearly
labeled with the name of the organization,' the name of
the play, and the date of the appearance. If your set
requires any special assembly or rigging, look after these
details before date of rehearsal. Groups must remove
pr0perties from rooms on stage as soon as they have pre-
sented their play. Clubs will arrange for all transporta-
tion to and from Fourteenth Street School.

A storage room for scenery and pr0perties during the
week of the tournament will be available at Fourteenth
Street School.

Each club will be allowed one hour before the tourna-
ment for a complete scenery, properties, and lighting re-
hearsal; time to be allotted by the tournament committee.
A complete dress rehearsal of each group will be im—
possible. If it is impossible for your group to be present
at rehearsal as per schedule, your rehearsal time will be
forfeited.

Club members not actively participating in production
will not be allowed backstage or in the dressing rooms
during rehearsals or production. Those wishing to
observe their group rehearsals must remain in the audi-
torium. All messages for the club must be given to the
group stage manager who will pass them on.

The night on which each group will appear will be
decided by the tournament committee. The order of the
plays will not be changed after the tournament begins.
Plays will be grouped to give a diversified program at
each session.

The night of the production, all players must be dressed
and ready to go on the stage five minutes after the tour-
nament stage manager and assistants finish setting up the
stage. Each club director and stage manager is requested
to report to the tournament stage manager as soon as the
preceding play ends.

Judges will be selected by the drama tournament com-
mittee. Each club should suggest the name of at least
one person to be considered by the tournament committee
as a judge for the tournament. It will be understood by

(Continued on page 499)

RECREATION

industrial

Recreation

Canadian
Style

EN AND WOMEN from
M all over Canada

were pouring into
‘ Toronto. From city and
country they came to
manufacture the tools of
war. Toronto’s recreation
facilities were crowded to
the bursting point and still
they came. The men seemed to manage somehow
to fit into Sports programs already set up. But the
women presented another and more difficult prob-
lem. They had not been long in the city before
they were clamoring for some place to relax body
and mind after standing all day at machines. The
need was obvious. So the officials of John Inglis
Company, Limited, got to work to see what could
be done for their women employees.

Fortunately for the success of their plan, the
company decided to make haste slowly. They drew
up a preliminary questionnaire in order to find out
whether the girls would really be interested in a
program of organized physical activities. The re-
sponse, when the questionnaire was circulated
through the plant, was immediate and enthusiastic.

The management set about the task of finding a
place to house a recreation program. That, in the
war-swollen city of Toronto, was no merry jest.
At long last, however, a building of sorts was
found. But much time and money needed to be
spent before the place would be ready for the use
to which it would be put. So another questionnaire
was prepared. This one was calculated to discover
whether enough pe0ple would actually become
members of the proposed club, at a cost to them of
fifteen cents per week, to justify the expense and
the trouble of renovating. Within ten days 2,500
applications for membership had been received.

DECEMBER 1944

 

Courtesy United Aircraft Corporation

By BOB WARREN
Edifor, The Shotgun

The reconstruction proceedings got under way
quickly. But long before the building was ready
an activities program was started in temporary
quarters. Under the leadership of a capable rec-
reation staff tap dancing and health and beauty
exercises were begun, and a program was planned
for a grand opening of the club.

That great day finally arrived. The members of
the club had a chance to view their domain. The
core of the club was a large gym marked for two
basketball courts, four badminton courts, shuffle-
board and volley ball. In addition, there was ap—
paratus including a horse, springboard, box, and
mats. A small stage at one end of the gym was
equipped for dancing routines and dramatics.
Across the front of the building ran two comfort-
able lounges furnished and decorated in shades of
rose, turquoise, and honey. Glass partitions across
the sides of the lounges that faced the gym allowed
the girls to take their ease and watch their more
active friends in game or drill. A well-equipped
snack bar and soda fountain in the lower lounges p
served light lunches, sandwiches, and drinks cold
or hot. A library, stocked to suit every kind of

(Continued on page 500)

483

uCome, Read to Me Some Story”

'1‘ IS EARLY Saturday morning
(or maybe \Nednesday after—
noon after school) in a rural

community in California. That
small building is a branch library.
Those children going so quietly through its door
(they know by experience that readers don’t like
to be disturbed) are the members of a reading
club. Their eager faces are proof enough that they
expect to have a good time for the next hour or so.
And well they may, because before they go home
it is likely that they will have journeyed to far
countries, made new friends, had strange adven—
tures.

The branch libraries _in rural California are small

and trained librarians are scarce. But somebody .

must keep the buildings Open, the store of books
circulating; somebody must feed the hungry minds
eager for new experiences and new ideas. Cali-
fornians know that intelligent, though untrained,
people can do a valuable job in helping youngsters
to know good books. Rural Californians have
learned from experience that reading clubs for
children, held in branch libraries by lay people with
an intelligent interest in cultivating a taste for good
books in young people, really work even if there is
no person with a degree in library science to super-
vise them.

The California experience can be put to good
use by any community anywhere. Recreation lead-
ers in community centers \
and playgrounds, program '
directors for club programs,

By FRANCES DILL GISH
Head. School Department

Kern County Free Library
Bakersfield. California

 

authors of children’s books have
moved out to the uttermost parts
of the earth for their subject mat—
ter. No longer is the child de—
pendent upon stories of another
age for good reading. Any adult who has a taste
for good books and is willing to take a little time
to find out about the best books for children can
foster good reading habits in youngsters.

A community reading club might start with a
mother and her own child. The youngster’s friends
and other children in the neighborhood can be
drawn into the circle, and lo! a club is born. The
size of the club is not of great importance. Any
number from two or three to a dozen or more con-
stitutes a large enough group to Find real pleasure.

There are, and should be, no hard and fast rules

_ for working out a pattern for a reading club. The

children will have their own interests: Their spon-
taneous suggestions will indicate the direction of
the “program.” Here, as everywhere, the leader’s
job is one of guidance, of helping the group to
develop their ideas constructively. The primary
adult responsibility is to see that the quality of the
books chosen is high. The basic purpose of the
club, the cultivation of an intelligent and discrimi—

nating taste in literature, must never be lost
sight of.

Obviously each club will develop in a way
peculiar to itself. The books selected and the
manner of their presenta-
tion will depend upon the
age and the interests of the

parents thinking in terms
of all the neighborhood chil-
dren can follow the lead of
California's rural libraries.
The opportunities for chil—
dren’s pleasure and for the
widening of. their cultural
horizons are unlimited.

The art of writing for
children and young people
has taken great strides for—
ward in the last ten years or
so. As, almost imperceptibly,
the many adult worlds have
become one world, the

484

"Librarians in children's and school libra-
ries are alert to the needs of boys and girls
in,their communities during wartime. and
are working in various ways to help parents
make life as normal for them as possible. In
Chicago. for example. children's librarians
and Chicago leaders in the Illinois Congress
of Pa rents and Teachers are working together
on two courses in children's reading for
mothers—-one for younger children—the
other for adolescents. Des Moines. Indiana-
polisI Rochester. Washington. and many
other libraries are offering similar courses
which. in some instances. include classes in
storytelling for parents and suggestions

for books to read aloud."—From Educa-
tion Today Clip Sheet, The Quarrie Corp.

 

children. Children of pre-
school age (the younger
they are caught, the fewer
bad reading habits to break)
will be particularly inter-
ested in picture books, nurs—
ery rhymes, simple folk—
tales like The Three Bears
or The Three. Little Pigs.
They will like poetry, Chris—
tina Rossetti’s Sing—Song,
Robert Louis Stevenson’s
Child’s Garden of Verses,
A. A. Milne’s lV/zen l/Ve

(Continued on page 498)

RECREATION

t

Films by Starlight

HE sLn snmes hot
Tin Texas when sum—

mer has come in.
Night is welcome. \Vhen
the dark comes down the municipal parks in Dal-
las are thronged with people seeking coolness from
the trees and the grass before bedtime.

In the summer of 1944, the Army was anxious
for as many people as possible to see its great
documentary film, W lay IV e Fight. The Dallas
Park and Recreation Department conceived the
idea that it would be fun for the park Strollers if
they could sit in the cool of the evening and watch
a moving picture or two.
i The Department there-
fore suggested that they

Show Why IVe Fight and

By LILLIAN SCHWERTZ

Supervisor of Playgrounds and_Community Centers
' Dallas. Texas I

A typical scene at Exall Park. DallasI showing
the crowds attracted to the summertime. outdoor
series of "Why We Fight" films presented in the

parks by the Park and Recreation Department

utllu‘ krnly films in luv
parks. They owned :1
I6 nnn. sound projector
which they had bought
a few months before, and motion pictures under
the stars seemed a sound idea. There was only one
(lifliculty. Their one projector just wouldn’t “go
’round." Perhaps other projectors could be begged
or borrowed somewhere. The Department mem-
bers got to work with letters, new3paper articles.
radio broadcasts to let Dallas know of their
dilemma. \Vithin a week eleven Dallas concerns
had offered projectors to use and operators to run
them. The Army, eager
for their war films to
reach the public, kept the

l'(‘rml‘inm‘d on page 500)

 

DECEMBER 1944

Recreation Provides a Vocation

generally recognized as one
— of the most important avia-
tion centers in the country, and
its Parks and Recreation De-
partment is accomplishing a dual purpose by offer-
ing incentive to the potential aircraft engineers
and, at the same time, providing a leisure-time
activity of great popularity for the 6 to 16 year
age group.

The first “6—16” model airplane contest held in
1943 was such an overwhelming success that it
was decided to make it a yearly event, and the
second annual contest, which closed on August 20,
1944, proved beyond a doubt that this is one con-
test which has all the attributes of an ideal recrea-
tion activity.

Beside the vast Lockheed plant there are almost
a hundred companies
within the corporate limits
of Burbank which are in
some way connected with

THE CITY OF BURBANK is

By WALTER H. LONG
Presiden’r
Parks and Recreafion Commission

Burbank. California

The aerodynamisf of ’rhe Lockheed Avia’rion Cor-
porafion falks fo an inferesfed group of model

airplane builders. Meefings of fhis kind are that sound
held in all fhe San Fernando Valley libraries.

the building of airplanes, and
five of the major Air Lines have
their terminals there. Confident
that the industry would be in-
terested in the welfare of our

a young people, the Parks and Recreation Commis-

sion sought their cooperation. The response was
most gratifying, and generous checks and offers of
help poured in until it seemed selfish to confine
this opportunity to the young people of just one
city. Accordingly it was opened to the entire San
Fernando Valley. The result was that almost 400
signed entry blanks the first year.

The Recreation Division of the Department
carries the full responsibility and does all the “leg
work” for the contest but it receives invaluable
help from many sources. Design engineers and
model builders from the airplane companies meet
' with recreation leaders to
draw up the specifications
and make the rules so
experience

 

486

RECREATION

RECREATION PROVIDES A VOCATION 487

will be gained by those participating. It was these
men who ruled out flying models as being too ex—
pensive for the average boy to build. They wanted
this to be a contest in which everyone could enter.
Their opinion was, “We want perfection of work-
manship and design. That is what is needed in the
industry. A flying model cannot conform to scale
and a scale model cannot fly.”

Libraries in the several Valley towns handle the
entry blanks, printed in duplicate and bound in
books of 25. When each entry is made, the
youngster receives the original, a printed sheet
telling all the rules and regulations, and a mem-
bership button. The children’s librarians vie with
each other in developing interest and actual par-
ticipation, even providing transportation for the

finished models to the show.

Burbank schools include the contest as a part of
their summer playground activity, just as the
parks do, and during the contest sh0p teachers
turn model instructors. Some of the finest work
is turned out under their supervision. In the
Senior class, II to 16 years, all models must be
solid and conform to the 72nd scale of the Army
and Navy, but the Juniors, from 6 to 11, may
build any type, the only restriction being a 36-inch
wing spread. Templates in the schools help con-
testants to conform to the rules, as do many pic-
tures and charts showing detail and finish, which
count so heavily with the judges. Awards are
generously provided by the collaborating com—
panies, special awards and certificates of merit
signed by the Air Line captains are given those
whose models just miss winning the awards for
excellence in workmanship.

The contest would be of little value unless the
boys—yes, and a few girls—knew of it. The whole-
hearted cooperation of the newspapers takes care
of this. The public relations department writes
releases on the progress of the contest, including
names of those doing outstanding work and any
special information which would be of interest to
the public or the model builders. Pictures of the
contestants and their partly finished models, the
awards or any other “art” are welcomed by the
press and the company papers of the participating
firms, who even send their photographers to take
the pictures.

Displays of the awards are arranged in down-
town store windows in each city, with the press

releases properly keyed to give “push” to the
exhibit. At the same time. the libraries make spe-

DECEMBER 1944

cial displays of material and books on model build-
ing to help build up interest.

About midway through the contest, everyone
who has signed an entry blank is invited by
postal card to attend a meeting at which engineers
from the companies act as technical advisors to
help contestants with their problems. These busy
men who are at the very top of aviation engineer—
ing, give a full evening of their time to help these
boys who will soon be their successors. The young-
sters bring the models upon which they are work-
ing to be criticised by experts in design, structure
and aerodynamics. Pilots from the Air Lines take
part in these meetings, too, telling firsthand experi-
ences of flying the transport planes of'the world. A
question and answer session concludes each meet-
ing and often the questions “stump the experts.”

This year’s contest ran from May 15 to August
20, and all models had to be brought to the Rec-
reation Center on August 17th to be judged and
displayed for the two—day show, to which the en-
tire Valley was invited without charge. The small
planes were separated into divisions and classes
and arranged on long tables in the spacious room,
so that all could gaze to their heart’s content.

An engineer from each company served on the
judging committee, and these men did such an ex-
pert job that it took them five hours to complete
the list of winners. More than once precision
gauges were necessary to measure the accuracy
of the model.

The really big moment arrived on Saturday
night when the curtains opened on the flag—draped
stage filled with Army and Navy fliers just re-
turned from the world combat zones; the master
of ceremonies, one of the great names in aviation;
uniformed captains of the Air Lines, and the com—
munity band playing the national anthem. It was
the thrill of a lifetime for both the large audience
and the winners as each name was called, and the
young men stepped proudly forward to receive
their awards from the hands of these men who are
now making aviation history.

The remarkable improvement in workmanship
between the first and second contest was both
amazing and gratifying to all those who had any
part in them, and an inspiration to continue
this vacation activity which not only serves to
absorb leisure time but lays the firm foundation of
a future vocation for the youthful contestants.
Plans for the “6—16” Model Airplane Contest for
1945 are already underway. It seems probable
that the entry list will exceed 1,000 boys and girls.

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature—Grams -

QUARIA. "Guide to Higher Aquarium
Animals,” by Edward T. Boardman. Cran-

brook. 107 pp., illus. $2.00.

Arbor Day and Bird Day. University of the

State of New York (Albany), Bulletin to the
Schools, 30 (7), March 1944, pp. 221-268, illus.

Bears. “Meet Mr. Grizzly,” by Montague
Stevens. University of New Mexico Press. 281
pp. $3.50. Reminiscences of an old-time hunter.

Birds. “The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Ameri-
can Birds," by Leon Augustus Hausman. Halcyon
House. 541 pp., illus. $1.98. Alphabetical se-
quence of 1422 North American birds.

Climate. “Climate and the Energy of Nations,"
by S. F. Markham. Oxford. 236 pp., illus. $3.50.

“Ditmars, Raymond L.: His Exciting Career
with Reptiles, Animals, "and Insects,” by L. N.
Wood. Messner. 272 pp., illus. $2.50.

Farming. “Work Leaders for Groups of Non—
farm Youth Employed in Agriculture,” prepared
in consultation with the War Food Administra-
tion and the U. S. Office of Education. Govern—
ment Printing OH'ice, Washington, D. C. 10 pp.

5 cents. Single copies free from the Children’s
Bureau.

Food for Birds. Bird lovers, unable to get cus-
tomary winter foods for neighborhood wild birds,
may substitute oatmeal, hominy, grits, peanut but-
ter, nuts, fruits, and dry breadcrumbs.

Forest Fires. “In a moment the ashes are made,
but a forest is a long time growing.”—Seneca.

Forest Quiz and Track-
ing Down America’s Forest
Fire Bugs. Important ques-
tions and answers about the
causes and results of forest
fires. U. S. Department of
Agriculture, Forestry Ser—
vice, Washington 25, D. C.

Forests. “Some Plain
Facts About the F orests,”
Department of Agriculture.
Miscellaneous Publication
number 543. 22 pp., illus.
10 cents. Single c0pies free.

488

. "To appreciate to the full any aspect of the
countryside, we must have watched that
particular landscape through all its varied
phases. The richness of the green thigh-
deep bracken on a hillside in summer is felt
more strongly by those who have trodden
the tattered red fern in winter. The spright-
Iiness of the crimson larch flowers in spring
is more thrilling to those who have seen
the same branches sprayed with snow. The
swirl of the November flood is heard with
greater intensity by those who have listened
to the soft burblings of summer."-——Robert
Gibbings in Coming Down the Wye.

Gardening. Soilless gardening at the AAF
Regional Hospital, Coral Gables, Florida, is giving
convalescent men a healthful outdoor activity,
training in a postwar skill, and a chance to produce
choice vegetables.

Great Britain’s Natural Resources. Write to
Mr. H. M. Arbuthnot, British Information Ser-
vice, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, for an at-
tractive and useful map.

Hiking Trails in New England. Copies free
from W. R. Hamlin, 60 Fearing Street, Amherst,
Massachusetts.

Maine. “Guide to the Appalachian Trail in
M aine,” Appalachian Trail Conference, 808 Seven-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington, DC. $2.50.

Michigan Conservation Commission proposes
that the state acquire 100,000 acres for recreational
purposes. It will provide for such outdoor sports
as fishing, hunting, hiking, canoeing, picnicking,
and camping.

Nature Therapy. The Dayton Art Institute pro- _

vided a miniature zoo for convalescing patients at

.Patterson Field Station Hospital, Ohio. An after—

noon of fun for the patients was arranged by the
Miami Valley, Ohio, Hospital Council of the Red
Cross.

Nature Trails, St. Louis. Alfred H. Wyrnan,
executive director, Park and Playground Associa—
tion has issued an interesting report on the estab-
lishment and maintenance
of nature trails, museums,
and nature workshops in
the St. Louis public areas.
His maps of the training
section of the national trails
at Sherwood Forest Camp
is rich with suggestions.

Plants, House. “Enjoy
Your House Plants,” by
Dorothy H. Jenkins, and

Helen Van Pelt \Nilson.
Barrows, 238 pp., illus.
$2.50.

RECREATION

 

 

1
l

Craft Institute in Buffalo-

THERE were more than one hun-
dred registrations representing
thirty-seven active organizations
in western New York for the
three day institute in crafts held
in the Buffalo Museum of Sci-
ence. The purpose of the insti-
tute was to arouse interest in the
development of craft skills. (The
accompanying illustration shows
.handmade looms made fromnice
cream sticks or tongue depres—
sors on which many members of
the craft institute learned how
to weave belts.)

Institute exhibits of craft
work were arranged which con-
tinued on display in the Museum
after the institute had closed. In the exhibit were
examples of weaving, metal and' leather work,
pottery, and miscellaneous items from local organi-
zations in Buffalo.

As a follow-up to the institute, Ellsworth Jaeger,
curator of education of the Museum, announced a
number of classes for adults and children. For the
children there was Nature in Art, which included
the making of marionettes, birdhouses, plastic
crafts, and other articles. The children’s Print and
Palette Club offers a program of print making,
including stencil printing of textiles. The Young
Explorers also have a program of crafts related
to nature and Indian lore. For adults there are

classes in weaving, pottery, leather craft, and in-
terior decoration.

 

 

EACH year for the past
twenty years, the Na-
tional Soap Sculpture
Committee has con-
ducted competitions for small sculptures in white
soap. The 1945 contest is now open. Awards will
be given in three classes, advanced amateur, senior,
and junior; and there will be special prizes for
group entries and for reproductions. The contest

Soap Sculpture
Contest

 

will close May I 5, 1945. Entry blanks and infor-

l mation about the contest will be sent on request

DECEMBER 1944
| fr

. WORLD AT PLAY

 

Courtesy Buffalo .Museum of Science

by the National Soap Sculpture Committee, 160
Fifth Avenue, New York IO, N. Y. A Soap S culp—
ture Manual is available from the same source to
teachers and other group leaders. This pamphlet
contains many suggestions for carving in soap.

THE Milwaukee Pub—
lic Schools Department
of Municipal Recrea-
tion has announced its
eleventh season of Children’s Theater with a
dodger decorated by a beckoning figure of the
Scarecrow of Oz. The program will include live
performances to be held on Saturdays in Novem-
ber, December, January, and February. The Clare
Tree Major Players will give Peter Pan and The
Prince’s Secret, the Civic Light Opera Company,
Babes in Toyland. The season will close with the
new Edwin Strawbridge ballet Johnny Appleseed.
A season ticket for the four plays costs $1.20 (tax
included). Single tickets are 40 cents with tax.

Children’s Theater in
Milwaukee

THE iilm service of the
National Council of
Y.M.C.A.’s will sup-
ply iilms free or for a
small rental to any organization which wishes to
exhibit them. The films, both silent and sound

Y.M.C.A. Motion
Picture Bureau

489

490 WORLD A’T PLAY

With the
A .R M Y

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every nghting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

DIAMOND CALK

z' ’Iii'l‘k

,3 

1|: *9:
1' "j 9/

It

 

16 mm., include educational subjects, feature pic—
tures, comedies, and newsreels. There are over
fifty films on sports and athletics. A catalogue of
films available from the Bureau, together with their

cost and instructi0ns\fbr ordering, will be sent on
request by the Y.M.C.A. Motion Picture Bureau,
347 Madison Avenue, New York I7, N. Y.

Violins and Mosquitoes in the Pacific—

“Every Monday night we have a ‘concert under.

the stars.’ It’s not much; in fact, the mosquitoes
offer excellent competition to the recordings. But
the music is beautiful. . . . This past Monday
they had numerous selections from the opera,
‘Carmen,’ and a number of pieces by Rachmanin-
off. I relaxed in the luxury of my pipe and meni-
ories. Yes, for a few brief moments I was home.”
-——From a letter from the southwest Pacific. (The
writer is a Liberator pilot stationed in the south-
west Pacific.)

Silver Anniversary—Congratulations are in
order! In October, the Federal Community Club
of Federalsburg, Maryland, celebrated its silver

anniversary. The program for the occasion in- I
cluded a review of the club’s work during the
quarter—century of its life, a. playlet entitled
“Martha Joins the WACs,” and an original pag-
eant “The Silvery Gleam” which pictured the main
activities of the club during the past twenty-five
years.

Birthday, United Nations Service Center-—
The Capitol Park Hotel in Washington, D. C., had
a birthday in October. It was only a first birthday
because just a year ago the hotel was converted
into the United Nations Service Center. Here a
serviceman or woman can get a night’s sleep or a
catnap, treatment for “soldier’s feet,” clothes laun-
dered in thirty minutes, or the baby “parked” for
the day. On the afternoon of Saturday, October
28th, the millionth serviceman entered the Center
and, as a sort of birthday-present-in-reverse, re-

ceived a War Bond.

The Light Fantastic—"1944’s near-record heat
doesn’t seem to have bothered Terpsichore’s New
York followers. Dance festivals were held this.
year in all five boroughs. At Prospect Park,
Brooklyn (the oldest of the festivals) 1,000 par-
ticipants performed before an audience of 10,000.
In preparation for this festival the dance classes
and clubs which are a regular part of the recrea-
tion program were expanded to many times their
usual size in order to accommodate the youngsters
to whom the Brooklyn Dance Festival has become
a tradition.

The dance programs were part of the summer
recreational activities of the Department of Parks.
For those less actively inclined the Department
had other activities. More than a hundred con-
certs were given during the summer. Their pro-
grams ranged from Brahms to boogie-woogie in
subject interest and were heard by over 400,000
people. Seven music groups on both the profes-
sional and amateur levels provided the music.

A Dream City—J‘At’this very moment cer-
tain of our organizations are planning for another
city on a larger scale, which may be located on a
beautiful water front near one of our industrial
operations. This conception comes from the mind
and heart of one of our youngexecutives who is
operating one of our shipyards. He calls it his
dream city. In it there will be room for light and
air, these basic essentials to healthy, happy living.

RECREATION

  
 
 
   
   
  
      
   

' DECEMBER 1944

CeWILS0N”
is short for

“BEST IN THE
won]. 99

0 When you say “WILSON” sports equip-.
ment, you automatically specify what thousands

of players and sporting-goods dealers agree is
“the best in the world.”

Wilson’s standards of quality in materials,
design and workmanship are the highest, and
even under war’s obligations and restrictions
we are maintaining these standards.

Specify “Wilson” when you buy and you
specify quality—all the way. Wilson Sporting
Goods Co., Chicago, New York and other

leading cities.

Wilson Athletic Goods Alfg. Co.
Chicago Plant

 

 

491

492

The broad streets will be lined with trees and
flowers, nOr‘x’vill they be marred by any overhead
electric wiring. ,From the parks and playgrounds
will come the laughter of happy children. On ath—
letic fields men and women who have worked all
day on what are often the monotonous rOutine'S Of '
technical prOduction will find recreation in the ‘
games which‘all Americans love to play.’g’-—-Heur'_\Y
J‘Kniser iiii 3an address delivered before the? Na-‘ -'
tional Conference on Postwar HouSing. lVlarch.
[944.

m . r . 4' . -
The Most Beautiful‘hSight -_—'?“Thi,s' stihk‘irig
life has done one good thing for me,” said the
hard-boiled sergeant on the Italian front. “I’ve
learned to getqaql<ickiolutaa§re§ry itsinglepminu‘te I:m
alive _.  and .it’tsi‘funny the Jway, you learndio“:
g'oOd"everythirfg'isTJLiSt béfiireiwe moved upi last
Week wéih’ad to sweat out’a long wait." Know what
I did? For a solid hour I laid (thefe in“ the grass 3
and looked at! a little blue Hower. Don’t {know what
kind it was’, butiI could' tell you all about: it. “It”
vias the prettiest- flower I’ve ever seen, and I guess.

I enjOyed that hour more,than any-I ever spent in
my life.”—From N. Y. Herald Tribune:

On Demand Only—A series of teen-age
dances is being sponsored for the first and third
Fridays of each month by a committee 0f Long
Beach, California, citizens representing groups in—
terested in high school and college boys and girls.
An interested member of the community is under-
writing the cost of well-known dance bands. Any
surplus of receipts from any dance goes into a
fund for future dances. The sponsoring groupwill
publicize the dances, but they will not “high pres-
sure” the young people into coming. The future
of the dance program belongs to the group for
which the dances were started, and depends en-
tirely upon their attendance in numbers large
enough to justify the effort. The Long Beach Civic
Dance Committee is promoting the plan. The Rec-
reation Commission is represented on the commit—
tee and is responsible for the management of the
dances.

Recreation Library Service -—- T he I’ublic
Recreation Board of Grand Rapids, Michigan,
maintains a lending library of literature on recrea-
tion which is proving an invaluable aid for party

planners, craftsmen, and other leisure-time en—
thusiasts.

(Continual inn page 494)

I, @ $1
; l’resident:

r ' ‘Ireas'clrer:

y eiiibe rs-at-Large :

THE SOCIETY OF RECREATION WORKERS OF AMERICA

The Society of Recreation
Workers of America

THE FOLLOWING OFIZrIcERs and geographical rep—
resentatives of the Society of Recreation Work-
ers of America have been elected for the year

1944-45:
OFFICERS

MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN, Washington, D. C.
First Vice-President:

MISS JESSIE SCIiOFIELD, Provo, Utah
Second Vice-President: ‘

ARTHUR E. GENTER, Akron, Ohio
Fecretary: "

GEORGE T. SARGISSON, Chester, Pa.

   
 

.} KARL B. RAYMOND, lVI—inneapolis, Mix (- i
. - f '
_ClIASE HAMMOND, Waterloo, 'owa
., K. MARK COWEN, Birmingham, Al‘ !
GEORGE HJELTE, LosiAngeles, Calif. o
PHILIP LEBOUTILLIER, Irvington, N. J. _
JAMES PRYCE, Eaton’s Industrial Workers Association,
Toronto, Canada

GEOGRAPHICAL REPRESENTATIVES
New England:
DUNCAN RUSSELL, Boston, Mass.
CHARLES H. ARNOLD, Waltham, Mass.
Mid-Atlantic:
WILLIAM M. LEONARD, Schenettady, N. Y.
PETER J. MAYERS, New Rochelle, N. Y.
East Canada:
\Vest Canada:
East Central:
L. P. MOSER, Kalamazoo, Mich.
JULIUS KEMENY, Cleveland, Ohio
South Eastern:
K. MARK COWEN, Birmingham, Ala. '
CORDELIA B. HUNT, Tampa, Fla.
M id-Western :
ERNEST W. JOHNSON, St. Paul, Minn. ll
KATHERINE E. KRIEG. Des Moines. Iowa
South Western:
CORINNE FONDé, Houston. Texas
\Vestern:
HOWARD C. BERESFORD, Denver, Colo.
MALCOLM LESEUR, CasPer. Wyoming
Pacific: .
MARION SPARROW, North Hollywood, Calif.
DUANE GEORGE, Long Beach, Calif.

Allan Krim of the Newark, N. J., Recreation Depart-
ment, has been elected chairman of the Committee on
Records of the Society of Recreation Workers of
America. Mr. Krim wishes that any person having any
of the past records of the Society would send them ad—
dressed to him to the OHice Of the National Recreation
Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City. Mr.
Krim feels it is important that all the Society’s records
be assembled and filed at this time.

RECREATION

 

America’s pilots train as a team,
coordinate individual maneuvers
as a team, gain mutual confidence

as“ a team—then fight as a team!

Why are they so successful in war? Because
in peace. . .when they played baseball or
football or basketball .or softball. . . they
were learning how to coordinate their efforts

with their team-mates’ for victory.

 

BUY WAR BONDS REGULARLY
HANG ON TO THOSE YOU HAVE

DECEMBER 1944

In the post-war period—and for all time
—America is going to need teamwork in
solving economic, social, and political prob-
lems . . . in keeping the peace when won.
Again, our playgrounds and athletic fields
will build this teamwork-to provide the spark

' to keep America’s bright torch shining.

©0 F svuruznc-nuassn-covsnso
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
Mfgd. by W. J. Vol! Rubber Corp"
I600 E. 25“. Sh. to: Angola: ll, Calif.

China? lunch-180 No. Wackor Drivo—Zono 6

 

 

493

494 “FOOD FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM”

  

48,000-WATT NIGHT
RECREATION PLANT

for sale, embracing items unprocurable even with
priorities. Includes 10-pole Crouse-Hinds 32-fixture
softball lighting system, one master and four circuit
switch ensembles, all accessories including auxiliary
lights; 1,200 Leavitt “knee-room” portable bleacher
seats; 72x24 steel backstop; shower baths and
plumbing fixtures; 1,050 lineal feet 10-foot fence built
in 10-foot panels for portability—Suitable for All
Types of Night Recreation. Cost $12,000 to build in
1941, can be seen in place; owner will accept best
offer. Communicate with MORRIS A. BEALLE, 230

Peabody Street NE, Washington, D. C.

     
       
         
       
     
    

World at Play

(Continued from page 492)

A Report from Honolulu—The Civilian Rec-
reation Committee of Honolulu, Hawaii, has earned
over $300,000 through presentations of shows and
entertainments and has erected an $I8,000 recrea-
tion center on one of the playgrounds, entertain—
ing more than one million people, 60 per cent of
whom were servicemen and women. Honolulu’s
Recreation Commission has taken the lead in rec-
ommendations for future playgrounds for the
“Master Plan” and postwar plans. Land acquisi-
tion and improvement of sixteen proposed areas

alone comes to $1,600,000.

Recreation for Negroes in the Deep South—
From Georgia and Mississippi come stories of in—
terracial action to secure recreational facilities for
Negroes. Community houses were built and play-
grounds openedf The centers are used to capacity
by men and women from the cradle to the grave.
The improvement in the neighborhoods where-the
centers are located has been noted with great sat-
isfaction by the whole community.

Feet That Dance and Hearts That Sing
(Continued from'page 459)

education departments. The Parks and Play—
grounds Association ended its summer work with
a folk festival in late August. For almost ten years
the Cultural Olympics of the University of Penn—
sylvania has had an annual folk festival. The next
one will be held in “February, 1945. Stress will be
placed on similarities rather than differences in the
folk songs, music, and dances of the varied groups
in the city.

"Food Fights for Freedom"

(Continued from page 465)

the park took on a real fair atmOSphere. As a
result, those attending swung into the fun for a day
and forgot for the moment about the lack of gas
for vacations away from home, and other necessary
wartime restrictions, and enjoyed the fun and en-
tertainment which was an outgrowth of their own
activities, held in their own neighborhood,

Two interesting programs highlighted the day’s
activities. The first was held during the lunch
hour in the park area of the playground. It
featured a marionette show from one of the play-
grounds, and a professional ventriloquist.‘ Both of
these features delighted young and old alike.
Clowns were in the crowd causing laughter with
their usual antics, and the master of ceremonies
added to the program with clever jokes and good
introductions.

The second program, held in the playground
area where the fair ground was established, was a
sort of “main show” event. The president of the
Berkeley Lions Club acted as master of cere—
monies and the program numbers were as follows:

I. Introduction of dignitaries

2. Selections on accordion

3. Folk dance numbers by the Garfield Folk

Dance Group

4. “The Lone Stranger Rides Again”—Jeffer-

son playground

5. Tumbling Tumblers—James Kenney play-

ground

6. Jolly Tappers —Washington playground

7. Magic Show—New Magic from Old Mexico

Both programs were well attended and received
applause and encores from their appreciative on—
lookers.

Financing the Fair

The fair was not planned as a money-making
proposition, but because of the many incidental
expenses, small charges of ten cents and twenty
cents were set as admission fees. All participants,
exhibitors, concession and food sale helpers, and
committee members who were aiding in any way
with the fair were admitted free. Boys and girls
who were already Junior Commandos and helping
with the salvage drives, also under the auspices of
the Recreation Department, or boys and girls who
wanted to gather some salvage for the ticket, were
admitted free to the fair by presenting twenty
pounds of paper, ten clothes hangers or six coffee

RECREATION

“FOOD FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM” 495

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS "IN ACTION" IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
N. C. C. S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two—Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL-
LATION COST!) is proving to be one of the leading game—units, now
included in RECREATION PROGRAMS all over the country. Because of
its E—Z set-up features. solid construction and convenient size, the
alley is perfectly adapted for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send for complete information and deScriptive
literature including many, many letters praising the good, clean com—
petitive fun and relaxation derived from Two-Way Bowling.

the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

jars. (All these had been used in previous drives
of the Junior Commandos in Berkeley.) The
clothes hangers thus collected were turned over to
the hospital unit of the local Red Cross; the coffee
jars were given to the Mobilized Women’s organi-
zation; and the waste paper was donated to an-
other service organization.

In an effort to provide still more fun and frolic
for the children, the local Berkeley paper asked
for the privilege of paying the admission price of
all the boys and girls who were to be charged ad-
missions. Their request was gladly granted, and
the record was obtained by the boys and girls sign—
ing up at the entrance gates. More than six hun-
dred children entered the fair through this method.

The entire project which was sponsored by the

DECEMBER 1944

. . . Mail

Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
I I4 East 32nd Street, New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

N ame .............................................................. ..
Address ............................................................ ..

City ...................................... .. State ................ ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

Berkeley Lions Club, required much organization,
and committees of various types and kinds were
organized early, each with a special job and specific
duties which were carried out on a well-planned
time schedule. It was a project that required a
great deal of planning and work, and without the
help and assistance of many committee members
the undertaking would have been most impossible.

If the need is still here another year, and if the-
war still goes on by that time, there will be another
fair. If peace has come by that time, and chil—
dren as well as the adult population can derive
more enjoyment from some other type of recrea-
tion program by next summer, the climaxing
event will take on a somewhat different form—

one designed to meet the recreational needs of the
people of Berkeley.

496

in all parts of the coun—

  try for qualified profes—

sional workers, both experienced and inexperienced, at

salaries from $1,800 to $3,000.

PERSONNEL DIVISION

6 I R L S C O U T S
l55 East 44th Street New York I7. N. Y.

Bermuda—by EMotor
(Continued from page 466)

groupers nibble at the bait held on hookless lines
by the visitors. The hungry fish grab the tempting
morsel and hang on until pulled up. Sometimes
they let loose in mid-air, much to the entertain-
ment of the sailors. To add to the general ex-
citement, several baby sharks are swishing around
in the pool, making desperate bids to outdo the
other fish in getting at “GI Joe’s” bait.

A trip around Harrington Sound brings our
party to the terrace of the Castle Harbour Hotel.
From here they can look out on miles of breath—
taking scenery. Later on, the group travels to that
marvel of engineering, the Bermuda base of the
U. S. Army Air Corps. Recreational engineering,
incidentally, was very much in evidence when this
base was laid out. Ample athletic fields and recre-
ational buildings were provided for enlisted men
and officers.

Swinging back to Prospero’s and Leamington
Caves, the party goes through these natural cav-
.erns. Similar to our Crystal Caverns in Virginia
(stalagtites and stalagmites) the interest of the
caves is heightened by the vivid tales of the place
told by the caretakers, characters whose fame will
“be further spread abroad” by their sailor audi-
ences.

Other points of interest visited include the Ber-
muda Cathedral, Parliament Building, Gibbs Hill
Lighthouse, Bermuda Library and Gardens, Ad—
miralty House, Spanish Point, the famed Lili
Perfume factory, where Bermuda lilies are con-
verted into the “eau de soiree”,of milady’s choice.

And so~—back to Hamilton and the liberty boats
in Hamilton harbor. It’s a tired group of sailors
who go ship-ward—tired but well-versed in “Ber-
mudalore.” And it’s a tired but satisfied Navy
Recreation Department that “secures” the trucks
as the USO director closes his office for another
night. The new type of Bermuda tourist likes the
island. He likes it so well that he promises to
.come back in peacetime “with the wife and kids.”
Then, with more time to spend, he can' lead the
family in leisure through this island for he will be
.an “authority” on its points of interest.

 

BERMUDA—«BY MOTOR

At the New York City Center

' (Continued from page 473)

convenient hour to ‘the audiences. “Out of the
many letters I have received about these events,”
said the conductor, “not one has expressed a com-
plaint against the hour. They tell me that although
they may have to hurry—in some cases from lower
Brooklyn, the upper Bronx, and even from New
Jersey and Philadelphia—their evenings are still
left free, and they relax completely from their
tiredness in enjoyment of the music. '

“From these and the Monday evening concerts,
I have felt a wave of friendliness from the audi-
ence which I have never experienced before.
There is an atmosphere of happiness and infor-
mality which seems to me unique. These music
lovers come solely for the music; they express
their enthusiasm by their spontaneous applause—
even between movements of symphonies—and they
don’t rush away immediately afterwards. I believe
that the reason for this is that they understand we
are trying to build an institution devoted to cul-
ture, without any self-seeking, and with the object
of making music for everyone, with no exception.
This spirit will increase as we go on. It will take
time to reach our ideal, the conception is so great,
but every concert is a step forward.

Towards Democratic Ideal

“One of our aims is gradually to bring together
a group of artists with ideas, to work out plans
together and act on them. New York has become

the greatest metropolis in the world, and we have .

here artists from everywhere. We shall welcome

art from every part of the world and from every I

time, with due regard for native expression but
without chauvinism, and for contemporary works
without neglecting the spirit of the universality of
art.

“The real meaning of this war is another great
step towards the democratic ideal. The period of
Washington, Jefferson, Paine, and Hamilton was
an expression of simple, brotherly democratic feel-
ing between people later reflected in every kind of
art. Quite soon we shall feel that again. Art used
to be for the privileged few—in the times of the
Medicis, the 18th century in France and recently
in New York, for example—but now is coming an
entirely different conception. Art will be for every
man, rich or poor, with no racial or other barriers.
We are looking forward to that day at City
Center.”

RECREATION

 

VILLAGE GREEN

Village Green
(Continued from page 478)
local matrons practiced stretcher bearing. All that
was in keeping with ancient custom; but in Octo-
ber 1941 came a great blow that semed to strike
at the heart of village life. Orders came to plough
the green and sow it with wheat. Well, we obeyed
orders—Z—but these lines by my daughter Pamela
Street, paint the picture all too clearly:

There’s a group of aged elm trees by the narrow wind-
ing lane.

That runs beside Ten Acre to the f arm ,'

And like weather-beaten sentries in the sun and in the rain

They have kept it down the ages free from harm.

They have watched it through each season, they have

shared its every joy,
They nodded down when Jill was taught to ride;
And they rustled when the Vicar judged the finest baby

boy,
Whilst old Jarrock’s red rosette they shared with pride.

Then-they shook a very little when Old Harry broke the
fence,

And turned a little yellow at his fall;

But it’s only very recently they’ve waited in suspense——

And have sighed in one sad chorus over all.

P or Ten Acre is a happy field, the elms have seen its fun,
When shows were held and young things born and bred;
So it’s just a little hard to think in nineteen forty-one
We are ploughing, sowing, rolling it instead.

America, too, has its village greens. Last June
the green at Millburn, New Jersey, was the scene
of a village festival sponsored by the Art Center.
The day’s program, which lasted from 10:30 A. M.
to 10:30 P. M., included exhibitions of art of ser-
vicemen abroad; arts and crafts, creations of school
children; wood carving, and ceramics; a demon-
stration of portrait painting with child artists at
work; linger painting; a Maypole dance and folk
dances; and scenes of the Gay Nineties. In the
evening came a concert and a country square
dance.

There is, too, the old village green of Thetford
Hill, Vermont, flanked at one end by the more
than a century and a quarter old church and sur—
rounded by gracious old houses. Here are held
gatherings of all kinds—most important of all the
annual village fair in August with its booths where
articles of all kinds are sold, its Punch and Judy

I show, supper on the green and, at the end of the

day, the beautiful candlelight service in the church.
Last year came an innovation—a community
mowing! Wartime conditions had made it impos—

sible to secure labor for cutting the grass on the
(Continued on page 499)

I

1 DECEMBER 1944

l p

497

 {GYM MATS-PADS

BOXING RINGS

TRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALL
BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT . . .

designed by 0190!“, ends by experienced when he.
quelity mid: end so“ diced to schools, nape. ek-
lndepondeel, truly wholesale.

“ NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT COMPANY
ass use-aunt: . rose on me. me.

   
 
  
       

A Suitable Stable for Hobby Horses

(Continued from page 467)
for them. Groups of interested Spectators lingered

string for future candlewick spreads, watched the
potter’s wheel turning merrily to shape the 'clay,
saw the woodworking shop being set up. 'These
people would not long be spectators. Because of
community cooperation in the building of this
project the costs of participating actively were so
low;nothing more than what it took to buy the
materials—that every one could be a doer of the
work and not a watcher only.

On that Opening night there was a new excite—
ment in the autumn air at Guelph." This was'a.
beginning. Other, bigger plans were being forged.
alre’ady. New shops will be added to those already
set up. The walls of the market will be decorated
with a mural showing the history of the town and
painted by the town’s own citizens. There will
soon be soldiers coming back from overseas, men
who have, in convalescent h05pitals, learned to
value handcrafts. They will want and need the
therapy of creating for the fun of it and for the joy
of making things for beauty and for use. Guelph
is looking more happily to the future because an
old butter market has had its facade lifted to be-
come a stable for many hobby horses—From On-
tario Parks Association Bulletin, Mid—October,

1944.

Attention!

RECREATION DEPARTMENTS
COMMUNITY and CIVIC CENTERS

We supply Costumes on rental basis for

VICTORY and PEACE PAGEANTS
PERIOD PLAYS, OPERAS, and CARNIVALS

_FOLK FESTIVALS, and DANCES

Accurate Period Costumes for Jr. and Sr. Hi. Schools

Wigs, Make-U p Masks, Heads, Accessories

811 CHESTNUT ST.
PHILA. 7, PA.

VAN HORN & SON

Established 1852
Theatrical Costumers

u-

 

498 “COME, READ TO ME SOME STORY”

 

you Gem Use

THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
.PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

"Comel Read to Me Some Story"
(Continued from page 484)

Were Very Young and N ow lV e Are Six. They
may want to dramatize the stories they have heard.
The leader may find that all the youngsters want
to be the smart little pig who survives, but since
this is obviously impossible there will, no doubt, be
a couple of volunteers prepared to sacrifice them-
selves to the wolf in the cause of drama. Let the
youngsters work out their own improvisations.
The little ones won’t need many suggestions!

Children in the six to ten age group will like
folk stories and fairy tales and tales of mythology;
Howard Pyle and Rudyard Kipling and Hans
Christian Andersen. They will be interested in
Louisa May Alcott and in the admirable pioneer-
ing books written in recent years by Laura Wilder.
They will want books of the times in which they
live, like Kitty Barne’s Three and a Pigeon and
Gregor Felsen’s Struggle is Our Brother and
books of fantasy and far places, Gift of the Forest
by Eloise Lownsbery and H. Lal Singh and Mocha
the Djnka by Frances F. Neilson.

Older children will want variety. They will be
eager for biography, books of science and travel,
good fiction. They may want to read independ-
ently as well as in a group and, from time to time,
report to the rest on what they have been doing by
themselves. A reading scrapbook, kept as a record
of his own reading by each club member, and a
club scrapbook chronicling group activities, are
stimulating and interesting as a record and a
reference.

Now, where are the books (and the knowledge

that will insure the best choice of books) coming
from? In communities where there is a trained
children’s librarian the answer is easy. She will
help with the selection and provide the booksmor
she will know where any books not on her shelves
may be obtained. Her training will be an ever—
ready resource for the_ lay leader. But what of
communities where there is no children’s libra-
rian«—-indeed no library of any kind? For them
there is the state library. It will be in the state
capital and will probably have a librarian trained
to work with children. At any rate someone in
the organization will suggest the best books for
children both curent and classic. Arrangements
can probably be made for borrowing these books
from the state library at no cost or for the cost of
mailing only.

The mechanics of forming a reading club in a
neighborhood home, in an agency’s clubroom, or
in a recreation center are not difficult. The re-
wards in happiness and knowledge for the present
and for the future are greater than can be guessed,
much less set forth in numbered pages. The
proof of this pudding can only be in the eating, but
the experience of other people says it is a palat-

able dish.

Home Recreation After the War

(Continued from page 479)

it must be remembered that participation is volun-
tary. If people are forced or overpersuaded to do
something against their inclination they lose in—
terest, and the activity ceases to be recreational.
Informal or unorganized participation makes a
home recreation program successful.

To most children under eight years old, the
backyard is the preferred playground. It will
probably be a better playground if it is made more
interesting by adult care. Many small children
play well alone without an adult to organize their
activities, but they will welcome adult guidance
and suggestions. This gives the mothers in a
neighborhood a wonderful opportunity. They
might well select a backyard suitable for a play
lot and arrange a schedule among themselves for
supervising children in the play area. The fathers
who are interested in shopwork could make play
equipment for the area. The same kind of c00pera-
tion could be used to develop neighborhood recre-
ation for older children and for adults.

Home recreation can work. It can provide in-
expensive, wholesome fun for the whole family.

A NEGRO ONE-ACT PLAY TOURNAMENT

Village Green

(Continued from page 497)
green. So an invitation was issued, “Come to the

community mowing, bring your supper and a
mowing machine !” The enthusiastic response re-
sulted in the cutting of the grass not only on the
green but on the lawns of the surrounding houses
and of the church.

‘ And there was plenty of fun with the work!

The Part of the Y.W.C.A. in

Community Planning
(Continued from page 477)

fulfilling-its own clearly defined function with skill
and enthusiasm and by helping to establish effect-
ive and mutually helpful relations among all the
agencies for the benefit of the entire community.

‘ A Decalogue for Parents
(Continued from page 472)

in the City Council Chamber of the City Hall on
February 11, 1944, when about 500 delegates rep-
resenting schools in Chicago and Cook County
were present.

It is suggested that anyone desiring a copy com-
municate with Mr. E.  Lewinski, Executive

Secretary of the Conference, 326 West Madison
Street, Chicago 6, 111.

A Christmas Message
(Continued from page 460)

that had troubled me . . . not the greatness of the
thing that we do, not the value of the gift we
make, but only that we give our best! That brings
a blessing upon the small things which even you
and 1 can do at this Christmas time. Thisnis our
inspiration for the coming year.

A Negro One-Act Play Tournament
(Continued from page 482)

the committee that any club entering the tournament
agrees to accept the decision of the judges as final.

The plays will be judged as follows: presentation-—
meaning “how well the idea of the play is gotten over”—
50 per cent; acting——25 per cent; setting—15 per cent;
selection of play—10 per cent. One point will be de—
ducted for each minute that a play runs over the time
limit of forty-five minutes.

Each judge will grade each play independently, handing
in his or her gradings in a sealed envelope at the con-
clusion of each evening’s plays. Places won 1by each club
will be announced. Points won by each club will be given
to directors upon request.

The original plays will be judged as follows: PLOT:

(a)Is the plot unified? (b) Are there “gaps” in the
acticm? (c) Are the entrances well prepared for?

499

in every field of sport in Protes-
sional, Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities,
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and industrial Recreation.
Goldsmith Sports Equipment is rec-
ognized as a hallmark of quality
and unvarying performance.

Army-Navy "E ' .. awarded,

MACGREGOR-GOLDSMITH INC. SPORT panopyc'rsI Inc"

30"" {I FINDLAY STE. CIWIN’NATI I5. OHIO. 0.3.5‘

rat;

 

d.

ENCYCLHPEDIA
0FSPORTS

By Frank G. Menke

l

‘ Here is a tremendous vol- I

ume chock-full of fascinating

I  facts and records on 118

 -' J  different sports— presented

refreshingly and authorita-

tively by the master historian of the sports world.
Believe-It-Or-Not Ripley claims it will answer
4,000,000 questions on sports records and history!

I

Frank G. Menke occupies a prominent place on a
Sportsman’s roll of honor. His indefatigable research
has answered countless questions. This latest edition
of his enormously successful ENCYCLOPEDIA is the
result of a compilation of facts from 2,000 books and
his independent findings of twenty years.

This is the most amazing sports book of our time!

623 Pages $3.50

Send for our new, complete_ catalog

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY

67 West 44th Street New York 18, N. Y.

 

Manufacturers. Cincinnati. 0.

   

500 FILMS BY STARLIGHT

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MU NICI PAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the administration aspeCts of
their department and its correlation with other departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and

reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the held on each
lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfactory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wr0te, "Trut/afully I cannot remember any
ego” on my part which 194: paid opt in dividend: to quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
|3|3 East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois

CHARACTERIZATION: (a) Are the characters clearly
drawn? (b) Does the dialogue fiow naturally? (c) Is the
language authentic? ATMOSPHERE: (a) Does the play-
wright sustain the mood? (b) Do all parts of the play
contribute to the mood? In rendering a decision, the
judges should keep in mind that this is a playwright’s
contest. The decision shall be rendered in terms of place
for each play and shall be determined by majority vote

for each place.

Single admission, 20 cents; season tickets, 50 cents. No
reserved seats. Each group will be given as many tickets
as they want, but they will be requested to sell a mini-
mum of twenty-five tickets. The money from the sale of
these tickets shall lbe turned in to the treasurer of the
tournament committee. The overhead expenses of the
tournament such as drapes, tickets, posters, trophies,
lights, heat, janitor service, federal tax, etc., will be paid
from these receipts. Whatever is made over and above
expenses shall go to the group in proportion to the
amount of money received from the tickets sold by that
group. The committee will meet with directors and busi-
ness managers of clubs on Monday night following the
close of the tournament. At this meeting, the committee
will refund clubs the amount of money due them after
deducting all overhead expenses, including the federal
tax. However, clubs must account for all tickets checked
out either by turning in the tickets or money before they
will be refunded any part of the money due them.

Films by Starlight

(Continued from page 485)
Operators busy feeding film into the projectors.

Shorts on safety and health, travelogues, and
comedies rounded out each evening’s program.

 

Five nights a week, Monday through Friday, a
different hlm was shown at each of four parks.
The show began at 9 P.°M., lasted an hour and a.
half. The shows were advertised regularly. Two
daily newspapers published releases “selling” each
attraction on the basis of audience appeal. Radio
stations gave the shows thirty-five “plugs” a week
in spot announcements at no cost to the Depart-
ment. The park recreation leaders announced the
shows widely as part of the community recreation
program. The promotion campaign was highly
successful. Audiences built up steadily during the
hot summer weeks. Fifty thousand people saw the
films during the summer.

Now that winter has come, movies have gone
indoors. They have not gone in to hibernate, how-
ever. Educational films will be shown in commu-
nity centers through the winter months. When
hot weather brings peOple once more in droves t0
the parks,.the sky will again roof the “theater.”
If 1945 is, as we all hope, a postwar year, other
types of educational films will take the place of the
war films.

Industrial Recreation Canadian Style

(Continued from page 483)
taste, and a good victrola and radio combination

were on hand for people who liked their recrea-
tion in less active form. Showers, dressing rooms,
and lockers were provided for the girls, and show-

RECREATION

l

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

ers and dressing rooms for men who would attend
the not infrequent open-house parties and games
planned for the future.

The program that developed in the clubhouse
was built, like the house itself, about the gym. But
to classes in exercise and games was added a
course in handcrafts and later (for a nominal fee)
classes in the remaking of old clothes. Swimming
instruction, though not available at the club, was
given to the girls twice each week at the Y.W.C.A.
pool. The club membership fee allowed the mem-
bers to swim in this pool at any time that classes
were not in progress.

On Sunday evening from 7:30 P. M. to closing
time was Canteen Night to which the servicemen
in the city were invited and entertained by Inglis
girl workers who act as hostesses. A well-rounded
evening of entertainment was planned for these
affairs. Beauty contests and holiday parties at
every season of the year rounded out the program
with special events.

Better Recreation for Our Youth
(Continued from page 469)

summer. Nothing would do more to prevent the
drift toward the great cities, which occurs at least
as much through boredom as through greater
economic opportunity.

All planners of organized recreation should keep
in mind the original meaning of the word. It
means re-creation. The only recreation that de-
serves the name is recreation in which the child or
youth makes some effort of his own. Children
playing in an orchestra, however amateur, or writ-
ing, staging, or acting a play of their own. are
developing their minds and imaginations. They are

,developing absolutely nothing as mere spectators

or listeners.

Under the Social-Democratic Administration of
the City of Vienna, the teen-age children of work-
ers were encouraged to build, with their own
hands, throughout the countryside and in the sur—
rounding mountains, their own hiking and skiing
shelters. It was fantastic what they achieved,
through their own carpentering and building. But
the movement had to be organized, and given some
hnancial support. Young people could do much of
the building of their own recreation centers in
small towns, if they could be given some sort of
property to start with, if only a barn. But they
would have to have encouragement and adult

assistance.
(Continued on page 502)

DECEMBER 1944

501

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker t

 

MAGAZINES

Ladies’ Home Journal, November 1944
Better Recreation for Youth, Dorothy Thompson

Scholastic Coach, November 1944
Basketball Rules Changes, H. V. Porter

This W eeh, October 29, 1944
Postwar Industry No. 1, Clarence Wood'bury

The W omans Press, nN ovember 1944 ,
Pioneering with Teen-Age Hangouts, Hazel Osborn

H ygeia, November 1944

Physical Fitness for America, Morris Fishbein, Herb
Grafiis and Col. Leonard G. Rowntree

Adult Education Journal, October 1944

Creating a Community, L. Margaret Stanley

Journal of Health and Physical Education, October 1944

Problems of Youth in Peace and War, Eleanor L.
Hutzel

Track and Field for Girls in Secondary Schools,
Rachael B. Yocom

Journal of Health and Physical Education, November 1944
The Public Schools Look Ahead, by a group of teen-
. age girls "’

Safety Education, October 1944
Safe and Sound, Howard G. Danford

Research Quarterly, October1944

Studies .Completed 'by Members of the National As-
soc1ation of Physical Education for College
Women, 1941-1943, Pauline Hodgson

What Is a Physical Fitness Program for Boys?
Karl W. Bookwalter

Children’s Religion, December 1944

Our Best Christmas Party, Alice Geer Kelsey

Let the Children Play at Christmas, Florence Alvard
Dieterich

PAM PHLETS

Playground Safety

Connecticut Highway Safety Commission, Hartford,
Connecticut

A Soap Sculpture Manual

National Soap Sculpture Committee, 160 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York 10, N. Y.

Agencies Concerned with the Quality of'Rural Life in
the South

Southern Rural Life Council, George Peabody Col-

lege for Teachers, Nashville 4, Tennessee. Price 50
cents

How to Organize and Activate Your Science Club, 1944
Edition

Science Clubs of America, 1719 N Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D. C.

Selected Motion Pictures, 1944-I945 Edition

Y.M.C.A. Motion Picture Bureau, 347 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 17, New York

502 FROM SLUM TO A PLAYGROUND

 

GREATER
UNDERSTANDING

AMONG peoples .everywhere is the goal of

all who are interested in a better world.
Two potent aids to promote such understand-

ing are

OUR GOOD NEIGHBORS

(Revised Edition!

and
OU R UNITED STATES

These two books in the hands of teachers,
recreation leaders, young people’s groups will
do much toward making the peoples of Latin
America real and toward showing that, in
spite of a diversity of cultures, the people of
the United States are on their way to amicable
living with one another and with peoples of
other Americas.

.‘H‘

OUR GOOD NEIGHBORS contains reference data,
maps, projects, and crafts on Canada, Mexico,

Central American republics, and South Ameri-

can republics.

OUR UNITED STATES contains maps, reference
data, projects, crafts, and illustrations on
Alaska, the District of Columbia, and eleven
of the States of the Union.

Both for only $|.00 postpaid
60c each postpaicl

(Payment must accompany all orders)

— — — — PLEASE USE THIS COUPON — — — —

The Jonas Publishing Co.
Dept. R

4M6 N. Clark St. Chicago 40. III.

E] Please send me both Our Good Neighbors and
aOur United States. I enclose $1.00.

[:1 Please send me ............................................................ ..
(one book only)
I enclose 60¢.

Name .................................................................................. ..

Address ............ .., ............................................................... ..

City ...................................... .. Zone ...... ..State .................. ..

 

From Slum to a Playground

ON A 6%» ACRE SITE which seven months ago
was cluttered with dilapidated garages and
small commercial buildings and tenements, one of
the largest playgrounds in New York City was
Opened on September 16, 1944, in Harlem, with
only coal bunkers between it and the Harlem River.

Two thousand fathers, mothers, youths, and
children from the congested neighborhood came
for the opening, watched a parade, applauded the
city officials and Negro leaders who spoke of other
improvements to come, and remained to play ball
on the new asphalt surface and to use the ap—
paratus which had been installed. _

The playground is named in honor of Colonel
Charles Young, a Negro officer who graduated
from West Point, and served in the Spanish-
American War and World War I. Fencing is
lacking for the large playiield within the play-
ground, and the construction of a recreation house
with bandstand must wait until after the war.
Meanwhile there is a large area, for supervised and
safe play where none existed before in a heavily
populated district.

Commissioner Robert Moses, as chairman of the
ceremonies, told of two housing projects slated for
postwar construction in Harlem—the Abraham
Lincoln Houses, a $7,000,000 housing group, and
James Weldon Johnson Houses, a $8,000,000
project. It is Mr. Moses’ hope that the general
hospital for Harlem, estimated to cost $5,500,000,
will be built immediately adjoining the Johnson
Houses.

Other speakers included Walter White, secre-
tary of the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored PeOple, and Councilman Ben-
jamin  Davis, Jr., who said that the playground
was one of the most important steps taken to help
solve the problems in Harlem.

  
    

BeHer lRecrea’rion for Our Youth

(Continued from page 501) ~
' And the entire recreational facilities of our great I
I

cities need replanning and infinite enlargement, if
our youth is to have the normal and creative life
of youth and not be plunged too early into adult-
hood. In the end wepay for all our sins of omis—
sion—we pay in money, as well as in heartbreak
and in scars on our civilization. We have, as a
nation, the money, materials, labor, brains and
vision to do anything we like. The problem is to
put first things first.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Git on Board

Compiled 'by Beatrice Landeck. Edward B. Marks Music
Corporation, New York. $1.00.

“THE PEOPLE HAVE LOST no whit of their power to make
great songs out of their experiences,” says Norman
Studer in the introduction to Beatrice Landeck’s compila-
tion of folk songs. It is good that this is so, and good to
find concrete evidence of it in songs of the Russian army
and the Jugoslav guerillas side by side with the ballads
and spirituals kept alive by centuries of singing by the
descendants of the ’people who first made them. These
songs and many other kinds have bem brought together
in arrangements for group singing.

Work and Sing

Selected and arranged by Elie Siegmeister. William R.
Scott, Inc., New York. $2.50.

THIS COLLECTION of more than thirty of the songs that
built America is a treasury of American work songs
of yesterday and today. There are songs of the sea and
of the West; songs of railroads and river boats; of the
country and of the city. The drawings 'by Julian Brazel-
ton round out the trio of song, text and picture, and
express the lusty Spirit of the songs which is so essential
a part of our country’s history.

". . . And Promenade All!"

Compiled by Larry Eisenlberg. Order from Mr. Eisen-
'berg at Yale Divinity School, New Haven, Conn. $.35.

HIS LITTLE MIMEOGRAPHED manual “expounding the

pleasures of folk treasures” represents an excellent
collection of well-known square dances with clearly writ-
ten directions and with some practical suggestions for
teaching. A valuable feature of the publication is that
records are suggested for each dance.

Volunteers tor Youth Recreation

Programs

0CD Publication 3637. Prepared by Office of Civilian
Defense in Cooperation with Church Groups, Group
Work and Recreation Agencies and Federal Agencies
Concerned with Youth. U. S. Government Printing
Office, Washington 25, D. C. $.10.

'TIIIs PRACTICAL PAMPHLET presents suggestions for joint
recruiting and training. The material is treated under
two main headings: Part One—The Campaign, with
suggestions for recruiting, publicity, and the selection of
volunteers; Part Two—Training and Development.

0

Outdoors on Your Own

By E. Lawrence Palmer. The American Home, New
York. $.15.

-” XPLORE, EMPLOY, ENJOY,” is the burden of this pam-
phlet. It is full of suggestions about the out of
oors, the things tO do and the things not to do on [hikes
or bikes, with fire and water. A suggested list for
further reading is a valuable adden-da to the booklet.

ECEMBER 1944

 

A Directory of Plays for All

Female Casts

National Thespian Society, Cincinnati, Ohio. $.25.
ALIST 0F PLAYS for all-women casts has been a need
sorely felt by drama directors and teachers in the
past few years. A committee of high school dramatic
teachers under the chairmanship of Robert W. Ensley has
prepared such a Ilist. The directory does not include
every known play with women only in the cast. An effort
has been made, however, to include many types of plays,
and the directory should prove a real help to harassed.
directors who have watched their available men actors
silently" steal away during the last two Or three- years.

The Servicewoman and Her Leisure

Time in the Community

Joint Army and Navy Committee on Welfare and Recre-

ala‘tion, Room 1-E 575, The Pentagon, Washington, D. C.
ree.

THIS MIMEQGRAPIIED STATEMENT, which tells what com-

munities are doing and what they can 0 to meet the
needs of servicewomen, was prepared in accordance with
the recommendation of a conference held in May 1944 of
government agencies and national organizations interested
in the welfare of servicewomen. Anyone wishing a copy
of this statement may secure it by writing the Joint Army
and Navy Committee on Welfare and Recreation.

Modelling for Amateurs

By Clifford and Rosemary Ellis. Studio Publications,
Inc., New York. $1.00.

FOR TIIE BEGINNER in modelling here is an effective guide

book. Thirty-three illustrations give additional value
to sections on work with clay, work with wire, newspaper
and paste, and work with cut and twisted paper.

All Aboard, We Are Ott

Story and pictures by Nura. Studio Publications, Inc.,
New York. $2.50.

CHILDREN WIIO LIKE plenty of pictures with their stories

will be fascinated by this book with its tales of visits
to new and exciting lands and, most exciting of all, it's
an airplane that takes them to these countries—the Land
of Play, the Land of Food, the Land of Study, of Story
Books, and best of all, the Land of Home.

How to Make a Speech and Enioy It

By Helen Patridge. National Publicity COuncil, 130 East
22nd Street, New York. $.75.

HERE Is GOOD ADVICE for the novice at speechmaking.
The booklet begins with how tO treat the victim

when stage fright first rears its ugly head, and takes the

reader through all the stages of preparing for and de-
livering that maiden speech. The material is presented
with graphic simplicity and amusing illustrations.

503

504r NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Boys and Girls Together.

By Margaret Shreffier and George B. Corwin. The
Womans Press, New York. $.25.

The purpose of Boys and Girls Together is to suggest
ways by which youth and adults can build a program for
youth that will provide opportunity for co-recreational
activities, including recreation. The contents are practical

and helpful. There are suggestions for planning and
starting the program, for promotion and attendance, and

for leadership. There is a section on projects in practice
and occasional programs. Finally the subject of co-recre-

ation centers is discussed and an.outline given.

The Care and Construction of Tennis Courts.

1945 Edition. United States Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion, 120 Broadway, New York 5. $.25.

Here is an exceedingly practical mimeographed bulletin
which clubs planning to build new courts or resurface old
ones will do well to study carefully. Different types of
surfaces are discussed in detail, and their advantages and

disadvantages pointed out. .-

ls There Interaction Between
Recreation and Religion?

By Howard. Johnson, Ph.D. Obtainable from the
author at 1101 Harrison Street, Philadelphia 24.

$1.00.

Dr. Johnson, author of Should the School Absorb the
Church Program?, The House That Hope Built, and
other monographs, wrote this thesis as partial fulfillment
for the degree of Doctor of Philos-Ophy at the Graduate
School of the University of North Dakota. In securing
information for the thesis he made use of a questionnaire,
488 of which were returned. The results of his findings
are shown in a number of charts.

While Dr. Johnson’s treatment of the subject is neces-
sarily academic, he has succeeded in keeping it somewhat
popular in tone, and the use of examples and stories of
individual church situations have helped to make it a

readable document.

Ride Your Hobby High.

By Beatrice Elizabeth Allen. Girls’ Friendly Society,
386 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. $.25.

Here is a series of attractive and constructive sugges-
tions on hobbies designed for girls twelve years old and
younger. Five sheets of instruction and illustration deal
with music and musical instruments, dancing, marionettes,
lending libraries, and hobby shows.

The American School and University.

American School Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. $2.50.

This is the sixteenth annual edition of a yearbook
“devoted to design, construction, equipment, utilization,
and maintenance of educational buildings and grounds.”
The emphasis, as might be expected in 1944, is on postwar
planning and on the lessons taught educators by the war
experience, especially with audio—visual techniques. The
section on “Instructional Materials” is especially valuable
for its comment on the postwar use of audio-visual
materials.

Checker Magic.

$BlySOTommy Wiswell. David McKay, Philadelphia.

Here is a collection of 100 checker problems from the
work of some of the outstanding composers of the present
day. Comments and quotations on the game appear on
each page, making of the book a sort of anthology of
checker lore as well as a source book of problems.

"name and address, as well as those of each individual member,

   
 
  
    
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
 

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC, REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OF
CONGRESS 0F AUGUST 24, 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933.
of RECREATION, published monthly at New York 10, N. Y., for
October 1', 1944.

STATE or New YORK,
3:.
COUNTY or New YORK,

Before me, a notary public, in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared Hownn Bnaucnaa, who, having
been duly sworn according tO law, deposes and says that he is the
editor of RECREATION, and that the following is, to the best of hi
knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, manage-
ment (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid
publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by
the Act Of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act of March 3,
1933, embodied in section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations,
printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

Nlilsditor: Howard Braueher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,

Managing Editor: Abbie Condit, 315 Fourth Avenue, York
York 10, N. Y.

Business Manager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth AVenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
and addresses Of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or
more of total amount Of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the
names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its

must be given.)

National Recreation ASSOciation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

F. W'. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.: F. Gregg Bemis, Boston,
Mass.; Mrs. Robert W'Oods Bliss, Washington, D. C; Howard
Braucher, New York, N. Y.: Henry L. Corbett. Portland, Ore.;
Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jacksonville, Fla.; Mrs. Thomas A.
Edison, West Orange, N. J.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.;
Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.: Austin E. Grifiiths,
Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitch-burg, Mass: Mrs.
Melville H. Haskell, Tucson, Ariz.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox,
Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D. Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. H.;
Gustavus T. Kirby, New York, N. Y.: H. McK. Landon, India
napolis, Ind.: Susan M. Lee, Boston, Mass.: Otto T. Mallery
Philadelphia, Pa; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L.
Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.: Mrs. Sigmund Stern, San Francisco,
Calif.; J. C. Walsh, New York, N. Y.: Frederick M. Warburg,
New York, N. Y.: John G. Winant, Concord, N. H.: Stanle
W'oodward, Washington, D. C.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other securit
holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more Of tOtal amount O

bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none,
so state.)

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above giving the names of the
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain no
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appea
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stoc
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the compan
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of th
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given:
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing
afiiant’s full knowledge and belief as tO the circumstances an
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who (1
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stoc
and securities in a capacity other than that Of a bona fide owner
and this afhant has nO reason to believe that any Other person,
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies- Of each issue of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to paid
subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shOWII
abpvi; is (This information is required from daily publiCations
on y.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 26th day of September:
1944.

[SEAL] MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANN,
Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s No. 317. Certificate Filed in New York
County. Clerk’s No. 26. Register's No. 27-D-6. My Commission
expires March 30, 1946.

