A Message to the Children on the
‘ Playgrounds of America

from
HONORABLE JOHN G. WINAN'I'

 

Ambassador ’ro fhe Courr of 5+. James .

Former Chairman Social Securi’ry Board

Three limes Governor of New Hampshire

Firsf Vice-President Nafional Recrea’rion
Associa’rion

LONDON, W. I.
June27,l944

Today your fathers and brothers light bravely on the far-flung
battlefronts of the world. '

I like to think, as I_ know many of them do, of the playgrounds,

' athletic fields, swimming pools and beautiful parks in communities

all over America. In their mind's eye they see your smiling faces and

know your carefree life. They remember it was good to live in that

kind of country. "rf‘They are determined that you and all of America's
children shall continue to have that kind of life.

On the playgrounds of America this summer your happiness will
lighten the load of your fathers and brothers, They will know you
are living the kind of life for which they are lighting and that you
too will become the kind of men and women that will keep America
a much beloved land, but because you have good fun, don’t think
that those who are lighting around the world to protect America
don't also know that you are doing your share in helping at home.

Sincerely,
- ~ JOHN G. WINANT

 

 

AUGUST I944
225

 

Tuf’rs College coeds s’rage a cook-ou’r righ’r on campus! Travel

resfric’rions curfailed ’rhe recrea’rional plans of s’ruden’rs a’r
TuHs. so ’rhey cons’rruc’red fheir own fireplace in back of one

of ’rhe dormi’rories on ’rhe campus a+ Medford, Massachuse’r’rs.

220 RECREATION

Living Memorials

Transfiguration as re—

corded in the Gospel ac-
cording to St. Matthew we
find these words, “And after
six days Jesus taketh Peter,
James and John his brother and bringeth them up
unto a high mountain apart, and was transfigured
before them, and his face did shine'as the sun and
his raiment was white as the light.

“And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses
and Elijah talking with him.

“Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus,
Lord it is good for us to be here; if thou wilt, let
us make here three tabernacles ; one for thee and
one for Moses and one for Elijah.

“And while he yet spake, behold a bright cloud
overshadowed them; and behold a voice out of the
cloud which said, this is my beloved Son in whom
I am well pleased, hear ye him.”

This was a great experience for the three simple
men who left the great company of people in the
valley and journeyed with Jesus to the mountain
top. For they had seen talking together, Moses
representing the law, representing also those who
had passed through death into the kingdom;
Elijah representing the prophets and those who
entered the kingdom through translation, and
Jesus the Messiah, for whose ultimate appearing
the lawmakers and prophets had eagerly looked
during the centuries.

IN THE ACCOUNT of the

   
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
  

They were stirred to make some adequate recog-
1ition of this momentous event. “Let us build here
three tabernacles, one for thee; one for Moses and

one for Elijah.” Here was the age—old reaction of
man——to memorialize a great event with a monu~

ment, a statue, a cairn, a pyramid.

It has been man’s desire since the dawn of civi-
lization to erect monuments to perpetuate their
own names or the names of those whom they
admire. The earth is strewn with such structures
too often symbolic of man’s vanity'rather than of
his achievement. In saying this I do not question
.the motives of Peter or suggest that the taber-
nacles would have had no value: I merely point
out that his’conception was inadequate. Marcus
Cato well said, “I would rather have men ask why
I have no statue than why I have one.” The

AUGUST 1944

By WILLIAM MATHER LEWIS
President
Lafayette College. Easton. Pennsylvania
Baccalaureate Sermon

June l8. I944

voice from the clouds said,
“This is my beloved Son, hear
ye him.” This was, indeed,
the answer to Peter’s sugges-
tion. Earthly tabernacles
could not properly memorial~
ize the event—there must be “a building of God,
an house not made with hands eternal in the

heavens” built on the teachings of Jesus.

“Can storied urn, or animated bust

Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath?
Can honour’s voice provoke the silent dust,

Or flatt’ry soothe the dull cold ear of death P”

I have never seen statistics relative to the amount
of money wrapped up in memorials throughout the
United States. It must total hundreds of billions

of ollars.

@ ow we are approaching another period when
countless people will wish to erect monuments to
those who have given their lives or have done some

great deed, that we might continue to live in a
free country.\j

God forbid that we should erect dead memorials
as has been the custom in the past. After the Civil
War few communities in the land failed to erect
an angular monument surmounted by the metal
effigy of a soldier. Washington parks and circles
are disfigured with grotesque equestrian statues.
Freakish structures mark many historic spots.

What memorials shall we erect? What will be
worthy of the boys who laid down their lives at
the Anzio beachhead, along the French coast and
in the islands of the Pacific? . . .

If our beloved sons could Speak, they would
ask us not to misinterpret them in useless panoply,
but to carry on for them in high adventure.

There are three types of monuments: those
which have no value artistically or functionally;
those which have beauty without utility; and
finally, those which deserve the name “living
memorials,” which contribute something to the
welfare of mankind. Of the first type there are
innumerable examples; the second, the beautiful
memorials, do have some justification. But for him
who suffered on the field of battle, what better
memorial than a hospital or an endowed hospital
bed or medical research project, or a medical cen-
ter. Cancer and tuberculosis are greater foes of

227

228 LIVING MEMORIALS

mankind than are military aggressors. Forohim
who. laid aside his books and his ambitions in con-
nection with scholarly pursuits, what more fitting
memorial than a perpetual scholarship in some
institution of learning where youth generation
after generation may join the quest of truth. For
those who went out of a community where the
opportunities for wholesome entertainment were
restricted, a fine playground or a community hall
would be splendid living memorials. A commu-
nity hall open constantly for athletic games, sym-
phony concerts, dances—a place which would
counteract the degrading commercialized amuse-
ment so common in most cities; a crippled chil-
dren’s clinic; a church center such as the people of
Coventry have planned; a music foundation. The
list of living memorials is endless if we but give
our minds and hearts to the task of realizing the
possibilities of immortalizing our heroes.

Every college campus should have its memorial
hall—not as a show place but as the center of
some great intellectual enterprise conceived in the
interest of humanity. This well might take the
form of a Hall of World Affairs; where teachers
and students of various nationalities and creeds,
living and working together would seek through
sound and realistic methods to develop interna-
tional understandings and trust. Here lies the
great hope of enduring peace——-not in fantastic
programs, not in wishful thinking of a Chamber-
lain at Munich but a united and far-reaching en—
deavor to think the whole tremendous problem
through. Many times our academic interests . . .
have discouraged international good-will rather
than promoted it. . . .

You may recall that in the motion picture, “Edi-
son, the Man,” Mr. Edison is the guest of honor
at a banquet where the technical leaders pay their
tribute to the great inventor and in his response
he says, “To be told by the outstanding men and
women of your time that you have contributed a
great deal to human betterment is pleasant, very
pleasant. I would hardly be human if my heart
did not thrill with such a major compliment. But
somehow I have not achieved the success I want.-
Earlier this evening I talked with two school chil-
dren. Tomorrow the world will be theirs. It is a
troubled world—full of doubt and uncertainty.
You say we men of science have been helping it.
Are those children and their children going to
approve of what we have done? Or are they going
to discover too late that science was trusted too

much so that it has turned into a monster whose
final triumph is man’s own destruction?

“Some of us are beginning to feel that danger,
but it can be avoided. I once had two dynamos.
They needed regulating. It was a problem of
balance and adjustment. And I feel that the con-
fusion in the world today presents much the same
problem. The dynamo of man’s God-given inge-
nuity is running away with 'the dynamo of his
equally God-given humanity. I am now too old to .
do much more than to say, ‘Put those dynamos in '
balance. Make them work in harmony as the '
great Designer intended they should.’ It can be ,
done. What man’s mind can conceive, man’s I
character can control. Man must learn that, and
then we needn’t be afraid of tomorrow, and man
will go forward toward more light.”

That institution which teaches its technical stu—
dents to put the dynamo of man’s God-given in-
genuity in balance with the dynamo of his equally
God-given humanity will indeed erect a magnifi-
cent memorial for those of its graduates who went '
down in the storm. I

Pope Brock, a Regent of the University of
Georgia, recently said in his Charter Day address,
“It is entirely possible to maintain an endurable
social order with a modest amount of technology
if there be present the. necessary political, intel-l
lectual and spiritual statesmanship. But if thisl
statesmanship be lacking, then all the technology, I
the genius man can create cannot save the world
from anarchy. The question is not whether we
shall abandon the teaching of the trades and tech—
nical skills but it is whether we shall first provide|
the leadership without which the mastery of the:
vocations is a fruitless expenditure of effort.”

Now, you may say that the subject of monu-
ments is out of keeping with the spirit of Bacca-l
laureate Sunday. Monuments, hOwever desirable,
are after all erected in honor of those who have
completed their lives not for those who are begin-l
ning them. This is only partially true. “All arel
architects of fate working on the walls of time,
some with massive deeds and great, some with'
ornaments of rhyme.” .

 

From the day of his birth every individual
builds his monument—some with stone, others
with wood; hay; stubble. Day after day they grow. °
You see them going up all around you—if you =
have the eyes to see. Every man on the battle-
front is building his, with blood, sweat and tears,
but no less is every man on the homefront. For

RECREATION

 

BRIG. GEN. THEODORE ROOSEVELT 229

many it is a monument of self-denial; of eager
participation in every enterprise which will help
win the war, in willing cooperation in efforts to
maintain and strengthen the institution in whose
service they are; of readiness to withhold destruc-
tive criticism until all the evidence is in. For
others it is an ugly monument, a monument upon
which is inscribed in sharp relief the words, What
do I get out of it; the monument of selfishness and
pettiness, of evil communication. Will each 'of us
be able to look at the monument he has built during
the war with inner satisfaction, with certainty
that he gave the best he had at all times to the end
that victory might come surely and quickly. There
are unhappy days' ahead for those whose record is
not what they'would wish to show to the boys
when they come home.

Thus in all the activities of our lives the monu-
‘ments go up. That is why the subject of monu-
ments is an appropriate theme for a baccalaureate
sermon. That is why William Hazlitt said, “Those
only deserve a monument who do not need one;
that is those who have raised themselves a monu—
ment in the minds and memories of men.”

We cannot beat the game. Our true monuments
may be concealed for the monient but in the end
the scaffolding comes down and there it is. The
monument into which unworthy thought has gone
will profit us nothing. A medieval Prince, an
atheist, laughed at the assertion of an ultimate
resurrection. He built for himself a mausoleum,
constructed of tremendously thick stone. “Now
let God get my body on his resurrection day,” he
sneered. But a seed from a tree dropped into a
small crack between the stones and in the years a.
sturdy oak pushed aside the slabs and made a great
opening. We can’t beat the game.

And, behold, a voice out of the cloud which said,
“This is my beloved Son, hear ye him.”

The voice from the clouds gives us the best
instruction for monument building uttered through
all time—“This is my beloved Son, hear ye him.”
If you who are going out to meet life heed that
injunction, the future will hold no terror for you.

a—

“History was made by men and women who
were not afraid to gamble on the hope of the
future, and in our time history is being made
again by those who are not afraid to face the heavi—

est odds to keep human hope alive.”—-—Dam'd
thman Coyle in America.

AUGUST 1944

 

Courtesy Press Association, Inc.

Brig. Gen. Theodore Roosevelt

RIG. GEN. THEODORE ROOSEVELT, son of the
late President, died suddenly on July 12, 1944,
on a battlefield in N oi‘mandy.

For many years he had been a devoted friend of
the National Recreation Association and an hon-
orary member, and ever an ardent believer in the
playground and recreation center movement in
the localities of the United States. He gave en—
couragement to the Association workers, wrote for
the RECREATION Magazine, spoke at a Recreation
Congress. At the time of the President’s Outdoor
Recreation Conference he was the real executive ,,
leader, and the Association worked closely with
him, contributing the full time of a worker for
many months to help in making the Conference a
success. He was active in the work of the Boy
Scouts of America.

Brig. Gen. Theodore Roosevelt thought of his
own father, President Theodore Roosevelt, as a
real recreation leader, recognizing the unusual Op-
portunity he and the members of his family had
had for recreation in their own home. His father
had been Honorary President of the National
Recreation Association for a great many years,
and one of the first organization meetings of the
society was held in the White House with his

(Continued on page 270)

Victory Gardens in Housing Developments

“Eighty per cent of all our residents had victory gardens of some size in
1943, and at least 89 per cent are planning gardens in 1944,” reports the
Vancouver, Washington, Housing Authority. This is a significant statement
which adds interest to these stories about victory gardens at two housing
projects, and the Harvest Festival and Victory Fair so successfully held.

A Victory Fair

By WALTER E. POLLOCK

Project Services Adviser
Vancouver Housing Authority

A VICTORY GARDEN CONTEST for war workers

that ended in a county-wide Victory Fair;

that, in brief, is the “great oaks from little

acorns” story of the Vancouver, Washington,
Housing Authority’s gardening activities of last
season.

The story begins in March 1943 when Mc-
Loughlin Heights, the largest federal housing
project in the United States, was only a month
old. Through the cooperation of the project ser—
vices department of the housing authority, the
Clark County agricultural agents’ office, and the
Vancouver OCD, community garden plots were
secured to augment the small home plots the new-

10’ x 10’ plot in their small yards. Gardens from
all housing areas were registered in the central
project services office in McLoughlin Heights, and
were judged by local citizens and members of the
Greater Vancouver Recreation Association staff.
It was then that the idea of a Victory Fair was
born. Because of gas rationing and crowded time
in the defense industry community, the long stand-
ing Clark County Fair which had been held every
September had been discon—
tinued for the duration. Then
came the great idea! As a
climax to the garden pro-
gram, why not have a regu-
lar, old-time county fair
where ribbons and awards
would be presented, and the
zealous gardeners could have

an opportunity to display

230

 

Probably no other project undertaken
by the Vancouver Housing Authority has
afforded greater pleasure and satisfac- ists
tion to the statf members than the Vic-
tory Fair. For it gave them the feel-
ing that they had had a part in preserv-
ing one of America's oldest and best
loved institutions—the County Fair!

 

their produce? The idea caught on immediately.
County agricultural agents and OCD workers en—
thusiastically cooperated with the housing author—
ity to make the fair a success.

There was another very special reason for hold-
ing the fair. Because the housing projects are
located some distance from the residential areas of
Vancouver proper, there had been a need for ac-
tivities in which old-timers could take part and
learn to know and appreciate newcomers to the
area. A county-wide fair would——and did—prove
a valuable link between the two groups.

That the enterprise was a success is proved by
two facts: I. This season at least 95 per cent of
all housing residents are planning gardens. 2. A
definite interest in the housing areas and project
services activities on the part of old-timers became
apparent during the fair. Requests for talks con-
cerning the recreation program and housing au-
thority’s problems and plans came frequently from
a group of varied civic, fraternal and social or—
ganizations in Vancouver. The newspapers in
Portland, the sister city located across the Colum-
bia River, as well as those in Vancouver, were
‘tremendously interested.

The Victory Fair was held September Ist and
2nd, in the large gymnasium, lobby, and clubrooms
of the McLoughlin Heights Community Center.
In addition to garden produce such as celery, let-
tuce, squash, watermelon, corn, peas, rhubarb,
tomatoes, cucumbers, potatoes, prunes and peaches,
displays of handcraft, Horiculture, sewing, can-
ning, baking, cooking, and an
extensive art exhibit of works
of tenants as well as longer
established Clark County art-
were arranged. Much
artistic talent was discovered,
including scenes and portrait
studies from all parts of the
United States, as well as
some foreign works. Several

RECREATION

VICTORY GARDENS IN HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS 231

 

Boys and girls living in the neighbor-
hood of Coolidge School. Burlingame,
California, raised a vegetable garden
in a vacant lot loaned them by an in-
terested neighbor. Another neighbor
supplied the garden hose and water.

commercial and club booths
were also arranged, and there
were exhibits of the Washing-
I ton State Guard chapter whose
headquarters are located on the
Heights, the Vancouver Council .
of Churches, public schools, and other groups.
The exterior of the center presented a festive

appearance. American flags as well as festoons of

red, white and blue covered one entire side of the
building. while vari—colored banners adorned the
interior as well as the exterior of the building.
As a first step in organization, early in the
spring interest in gardening was created through
local and Portland newspapers, radio announce-
ments, series of pictures of the gardens as they
progressed published in The News—wthe housing
authority weekly distributed free of charge to all
project residents—and talks by gardening experts
prescribing the care of the soil peculiar to this area.
Approximately eight local labor unions donated
funds for operating expenses such as printing, rib-
bon awards, and publicity. Prizes of $2 5 war bonds,
and $10 and $5 in war stamps, were chosen as
first, second, and third prizes for each contest
division. Gardens from each housing area were
judged separately because of a widely varying
fertility of soil in the projects which made fair

AUGUST 1944

judging possible only with that
ruling. Greater interest was
aroused because neighbors were
competing with neighbors and
enjoyed comparing the prog-i
ress of their gardens.

Those with very small gardens had equal op-
portunity with neighbors farming larger plots,
since quality of produce alone was judged. Among
the divisions were those for best boys’ and girls’
gardens, those cared for by an entire family, and
a section for the best small gardens which aver-
aged 10’ x 10’.

Grand prizes were also given. Vancouver and
Portland business concerns donated the prizes.

An especially fine feature was that all workers
volunteered their time. Not one among those who
planned or executed the enterprise was paid. The
judges gave their services; local people as well as
tenants served as volunteer workers. The number
of “natives” and newcomers who assisted was
equal. Meinbers of the long established Vancouver
Art group, as well as those in the Garden Club,
took an active part, while tenants, too, judged the
produce. Members of theicounty agricultural staff
aided in judging the handcraft.

The fair ran for two consecutive days and eve-
nings, and during that time a stage show was pre-

232

sented every half hour dur-
ing the day, with two hour
performances at night featur-
ing local amateur and pro—
fessional talent from Van-
couver and Portland. A
broadcast was made by a
local radio station, while the
show was in progress, from

the Vista Room directly above the gymnasium..

An average of 1,800 persons attended each of the
evening shows, while a total of 5,000 visited the
fair during the two days.

Although persons from throughout the county
took part in the fair, the majority of victory gar—
deners had lived in this area for an average of only
six to eight months. Many worked on swing and
graveyard shifts. This meant that they sacrificed
hours of sleep that they might work in their gar-
dens during the day. A tremendous volume of
produce was canned in homes or in the local
custom cannery.

Plans are already“ under way for a “bigger and
better” Victory Fair this fall. This year livestock
will be included, housed in big tents on the com-
munity center athletic grounds, and there will be
a large section for the youngsters’ pets.

Probably no other project undertaken by the
Vancouver Housing Authority has afforded
greater satisfaction to the staff members who felt
they had had a part in preserving one of America’s
old institutions—the county fair!

War Housing Victory Gardens
By G. D. WILKINS

HE RESIDENTS of the three war hous-

ing projects in the Wichita Area now
have a total of sixty acres of ground
under cultivation in their victory garden
program. Each project has a resident
garden committee whose
members have volun-
tarily taken on the job .

  

There's a lot of fun
in planting and car-
ing for your garden

5‘ ’9." 15 '
v

"I be. ’. \“

Mr. Wilkins. Assistant to the Area Hous-
ing Manager. Wichita, Kansas' Federal Pub-
lic Housing Authority' gives the following
information about the development: There
are three projects—Planeview, a city of
4,382 units with a population of 20,000;
Hilltop ManorI a town of LI I8 units and
5,000 people; and Beechwoodl a village
containing 500 units with 2,500 residents.

_to raise a victory garden.

 
   
 
 
     

‘ ,

-‘A

VICTORY GARDENS IN HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS

of managing the garden pro-
gram for the benefit of all

residents. Although the
Management of the Federal
Public Housing Authority
encourages the planting of
victory gardens and assists
the residents whenever the
need arises, the program
is exclusively a resident activity. The plotting,
plowing, planting, cultivation, and financing are
all handled by the resident garden committees and
the residents themselves.

The victory garden program is operated in a
similar manner on all three projects and the pro-
gram at Hilltop Manor is typical. The Garden
Committee of HilltOp Manor made arrangements
to lease forty acres directly south of the project for
the sum of $300 per year. The area was plowed
at a cost of $200 and then surveyed and divided
into individual garden plots at a cost of $60.
The individual plots, 50’ x60’ in size, were sub—
leased for $1.50 per plot to residents who wished
In order that the
work might prOgress on schedule, the Resident
Council advanced the necessary funds with the
understanding that it would be repaid out of the
money obtained from the sub-leasing of the plots.

Last year a harvest festival was held-at Hilltop
Manor as a climax to the victory garden program.
Hundreds of residents displayed their canned
vegetables andI fruits, and the Sedgwick County
Home Demonstration Agent judged the exhibit
and presented prizes. The enthusiastic crowd that
attended this festival saw firsthand results of
the victory program and went away with the idea
that they should participate in the program the
next year.

Again this year, as a follow-up of
the garden program, the resident
garden committees
plan to have a har-
vest festival in the
fall on all three
projects, in order

(Continued on
page 273)

And a tremendous
satisfaction in bring-
ing home the harvest!

Gedge Harmon

RECREATION

Bicycling

asa

' s

. . ‘ L ‘
.. i " ‘2‘.
r, , r Pgl;¢ I “w 5 _ ‘ ' .1‘1,{,.n 
H i ' r- if -‘ ‘  '.~ ‘3 . 1"
obby  f 53.1,. 5- Mn

. ’9: O x  ‘.

. Community

I
\

   

- HE SELECTION of a
' Tcommunity-wide rec-

reation activity
‘should be based upon
many considerations. We
suggest here a few of the
points to be taken into
account: ,' I
, .5! - '-
1. Is the hobby recre- ea"; . -
ational in the sense that '
it affords a complete ' {- I ' « :
change from the regular : ' " ' '  ‘ “ "   
workaday routine in en—

vironment, activity, and other respects?

‘.
_(l
u.

 

Courtesy Milwaukee Municipal Recreation Department

2. Is it a safe pastime? By ROLAND  GEIST

3. Is it a healthful outdoor sport for at least the
spring, summer, and fall?

4'. Is It avallable to bOth sexes’ as partlclpants ’ indoor use which make it enjoyable 1n unfavorable

5. Is it available to both young and old? ' weather?
6. Is it inexpensive from the individual’s vieW- 14. IS there a great. tendency toward profes-
‘POint? sionalism in the hobby which robs it of pleasure
7. Does it require large stadia or fields which value?
are dimmlt to locate in Congesmd CitieS? ' 15. Is there a thrill of adventure each time the -
8. May it be enjoyed strenuously or moderately? pastime is undertaken?
9. May it be enjoyed alone or in groups? 16. Is there a utilitarian value to the hobby in

war or emergency periods?

10. Does it require many A h ,
17. re t ere organlza-

years of training from expen—

sive professional instructors? Mr. Geist, who is the author of the tions: national 01' local: that
book. Bicycling as a Hobby, makes the will aid in establishing the
statement that while much has been hobby?

written about indoor and outdoor games 18. May the hobby be used

12. Will proficiency in this and similar activities as hobbiesl bi-
cycling has received little attention

from writers on hobbies. It is his

. h purpose in this article to point out triPS, Etc?
may carry over Into 0t er how bicycling may be enjoyed as group 19. Is the hobby a contin-

sports and pastimes? recreation in the community program- ual challenge to learn some-
13. Has it possibilities for thing new about it?

AUGUST 1944 . 233

l

l . .

l 11. May it develop into a
l later vocational career?

with an educational aim such

Sport gIVC balan'ce, 130156, and as nature study, historical

similar characteristics that

234 BICYCLING AS A COMMUNITY HOBBY

20. Is the hobby just a
current fad which will van-
ish in a year or so?

Bicycling Measures Up !

Bicycling. in my opinion,
meets all of the require-
ments outlined. A bicycle
tour into the country or to
another section of our land
certainly makes for a change
in environment. Cycling is
safe if enjoyed on cycle paths and side roads away
from congested motor highways. Most of our ball
games, such as football and baseball, are enjoyed
by our people only as spectators. There are few
sports that an individual of fifty or more may
enjoy in a leisurely way as much as cycling. There
is, too, the point that the art of balancing learned
in cycling is helpful in skating, mountaineering,
skiing, and similar sports. As for the question of
expense, once a wheel is purchased—and it may
last for fifty years with proper care—{he yearly
upkeep is practically nothing. Expensive fields,
links, or stadia are not required, and the highways
and byways are open to all without tolls. For
ordinary cycling a few lessons will train a be—
ginner to become proficient. Trick riding, of course,
requires many years of experience, but to the
majority of riders bicycling will always be a pleas-
urable hobby rather than a strenuous training
period for a world or Olympic championship.

Cycling, many people will feel, is an individual
pastime. While this is true, it may also be a group
hobby as in bicycle polo, team races, or formation
riding. Its outstanding possibility as a group
activity, however, lies in the organization of com-
munity bicycle clubs such as Milwaukee’s Muni-
Bike Club, now more than four years old, which
every week brings out old and young when the
weather is favorable. To stimulate new bikers to
take part in the weekly rides, boys and girls
sixteen years and over have recently been invited.
Two veterans of the Muni-Bike Club have volun-
teered to supervise the weekly rides and act as
advisers. Special emphasis will be placed on having
high school groups come out.

Every bicycle tour, however short, is like a new
adventure, for the rider never knows what he will
meet—perhaps some old friend or a new scene.
Even the same roadway changes with the season
and seems to be different.

Nature study groups are using the bicycle with

"Bicycling is now about a century old. and
it will undoubtedly remain with us for sev-
eral hundred years moreI since it will be a
long time before the average man can at-
ford to ride a helicopter! The bicycle is still
the world's most efficient vehicle. Twenty-
five pounds will support and carry a person
weighing I50 pounds on a long trip at very
little cost. And after the war we may ex-
pect new and lighter alloy bicycles made
with mass production methods which will

reduce the cost to $|5.00 for a bicycle."

success because so much
more ground can be covered
in a day, and the silent
Wheel can creep up on birds
and animals and come closer
to them than the mecha-
nized vehicles. City history
can be quickly and efficient-
ly studied by the use of the
bicycle.

A hobby which stems from
bicycling is Cyclana or the
collecting of all material relating to the bicycle and
the sport of cycling. The author has collected such
material for over thirty years, and his collection
includes over 200 books, periodicals and catalogs,
100 prints dating from Currier and Ives to the
present time, 100 old and new posters. five large
scrapbooks, three photograph albums, music hav-
ing to do with bicycling, programs, trophies, maps,
models of bicycles, and many other articles. The
old-timer can relive the Gay Nineties again with a
collection of Cyclana, and gathering the material
will make an engrossing activity for a bicycle club.

Lectures on the good old bicycle days will pro-
vide a most enjoyable community entertainment,
with a dance in the community house to the strains
of “Daisy Bell” as a suitable climax.

Let’s organize a community bicycle club now.
Arrange a meeting, plan a tour, invite everyone—~—
tell your local newspaper about your plans—secure
the cooperation of the local bicycle dealer, and
make the first affair a real picnic!

Mention has been made of the flourishing
bicycle club of Milwaukee promoted by the De-
partment of Municipal Recreation and Adult Edu-
cation. In this city legal provision has been made
to safeguard the increasing number of cyclists.

On December 20, 1937, an ordinance providing
for the registration of bicycles and the establish-
ment of rules governing their operation was passed
by the Common Council of the city of Milwaukee.
In that year, I 5,610 licenses were issued; in 1943,
29,168 were issued.

Since the passage of the ordinance, bicyclists
have been stopped and cautioned by police officers
for violations of the ordinance or traffic code.
\Vhen such violations occur a warning card is
issued and referred to the Traffic Bureau where it
is placed on file. When bicyclists under eighteen
years of age have had two previous warning re-

(Comimtcd on page 277)
RECREATION

 

Design tor Fishing—Fun and Food

with double plays

from rearing pond to
streams to rationed-bound
skillets, is bringing delight
to scores in Duluth, Minne-
sota, this summer.

Doorstep angling wasn’t
planned for wartime, but it’s
mighty handy. It is conser-
vation with a brand new twist, providing recrea-
tion on the homefront, giving the youngsters an
opportunity to get a wholesome treat in the time.—
honored sport of fishing, providing a chance for
busy war workers to get the “tonic of the wilder—
ness” without burning up the gasoline and rubber
of their automobiles.

Virtually within a mil'g’s walking distance of
any home in Duluth, rod and reel exponents this
summer are getting their outings on streams and
lakes and eating their fish, too—a unique pleasure
in a metropolitan city, 101,065 population as of
1940 census.

Ten streams, all stocked with battling, wary
trout, bound over the rocky 510pes on which
Duluth snuggles against the
shores of St. Louis River

(largest tributary of the
Great Lakes) and Lake

N EIG H BORHOOD fishing,

By LLOYD V. GUSTAFSON
The Duluth Herald and News-Tribune

Duluth, MinnesotaI where. about ten years
ago' flycasting classes were established in
othe schools as an extracurricular activity.
now sets the pace in another tield tor the
sportsman. angling at home with your
neighbors. It's a design for fishing—whole-
somel insPiring tun—and tor the duration.
for food. pink meat instead of red coupons!

Duluth citizens make the proud boast that
their municipal golf course is the only one
where you can get a turn at trout angling
and at the same time play a game of golf!

Superior. Giving variety to
the mode of trout angling
are three lake-type sites
(those are good-size ponds)
and for those who seek di-
'version in their game, there
are three bass ponds and
one perch pond. Meandering
St. Louis River is the source
for a variety of fish includ-
ing wall-eyed pike, Northern pike, perch and bass
and other panfish. “Deep-sea” fishing in Lake Su-
perior for hundreds is still a must avocation to
those who enjoy trolling for lake trout.

Duluthians for years have been doing some fish—
ing in urban streams, but catches were getting less
frequent each spring and no one seemed concerned
about the depletion.

What developed into a municipal fish propaga-
tion program through the efforts of city officials,
conservation clubs, and a relentless campaign to
arouse civic consciousness has set a pattern that
has brought inquiries from all sections of the
United States.

The story starts with John Hoene, city park
superintendent in Duluth.
He will tell you that his love F
of the out of doors has been
with him since early boy--

 

AUGUST 1944

236 DESIGN FOR FISHING—FUN AND FOOD

hood when he and his brothers would roam the
woodlands near their home, explore the hills of
Duluth, and go on camping trips. A lakeshore
cabin in the depths of the northwoods was the
home of the Hoenes during the summer. As long
as he can remember, John has been a hand for fish-
ing and hunting. Collecting wood specimens,
mounting tree leaves and assembling flower species
for study and classification were his delights when
other lads would rush away to a movie serial.

When young Hoene matriculated at Cornell
University to pursue the study of horticulture, it
was to get a more intensive, more scientific ap-
proach to his youthful studies in woodlore. But
study in the East gave him more .than the knowl-
edge from books and the benefits of experiments
in camps laboratories. He gained a new perspec-
tive on his home town which only distance can bring.

Duluth, at the gateway to the Minnesota Ar-
rowhead Country, one of
the major summer resort
and outing areas in the na—
tion, for years has drawn
thousands seeking the ad-
venture of the woodland
trails and northern lakes
and streams. Hoene saw his
city—Duluthmwith its
abundance of natural facili—
ties for angling and outdoor
recreation right at home,
i being lost.

It was his first summer out of college when, as
a landscape engineer of the city park department,
he began to voice and plan what since has de-
veloped. He lost no time in charting his neighbor-
hood fishing program. ”

Stewart Creek, a turbulent stream which Hows
out of Magney Park, Duluth’s municipal forest on
the rocky ridges in the western part of the city,
was the first site of operations. More than 400
yearling trout were released in short order into the
Creek. '

Duluth creeks had been given their “hypos”
fingerling trout sporadically over a period of years,
but under Hoene’s direction, the spring of 1938
found fish propagation activities on an unprece-
dented scale. In succession, five more streams
were restocked that same May. Brook trout, rain-
bows and speckled, averaging ten inches in length
were dumped into pools throughout the gridwork
of streams that cleave their courses down the hills.

In Chester Creek, a rapid feeder that tumbles

"The human animal originally came from
the out of doors. When spring begins to
move in his bonesl he just must get out
again. One time' in the spring, our grand-
mothers used to give us nasty brews from
herbs to purify our blood of the winter's
_ corruptions. They knew something was the
matter with the boys.
saved trouble by giving them a poleI a
string and a hook. Some wise ones. .among
them my own. did just that."—Herbett
Hoover in Collier’s, April 22,

into Lake Superior less than a mile from the center
of the city’s loop, are two ponds which serve as
skating rinks during the winter. Here was a spot
that would give Hycasters plenty of room to fiip
their lures. Five hundred 10-inch .battlers were
released into the creek above the ponds. Embow-
ered in a cup of the gabbro hills overlooking St.
Louis Bay, where St. Louis River broadens into

‘ the Duluth harbor, are Twin Lakes. Each lake is

about I 50 feet in-diameter and running into the
larger pond is a draining creek that bisects one of
the two municipally—operated golf courses in
Duluth. When Twin Lakes were planted with
trout, it was a public ceremony in which the state
conservation department and the city park depart-
ment shared the spotlight. Youngsters who had
used the ponds for a swimming hole previously
now could come equipped for a day of fishing.
Golfers who wanted to tarry on the sixteenth
green of Enger Golf Course
could take time out from
their fairway objectives for
a try at angling.

On the opening day of
stream trout angling this
spring, overenthusiastic
adult fishermen launched
three canoes on Twin Lakes.
The canoeists were re-
quested to remove their
craft in order to give the
shore anglers an equal
chance in their quest of trout.

Largest and most popular trout stream within
hiking or bus ride reach of Duluthians is Lester
River. Most westerly tributary of the Lester is
Amity Creek and then there are the East Branch
and West Branch of Lester River. The stream
resolves into one course only a quarter of a mile
from its mouth on the shores of Lake Superior.

A stone’s throw_from Lester River and only
two blocks from the trolley-bus line that has its
terminal in Lester Park is the city’s oldest rearing
pond. Built by the Izaak Walton League in the
20’s, the pond was used for years for bass pr0pa-
gation. Last spring the pond was loaded with
yearling trout. On Saturday morning, May I 5th,
opening of the 1943 stream trout angling season,
casting space was at a premium on the concrete
walls and rocky banks that encase the pond. In
July, the pond was drained and the remaining
trout removed to Lester River. Replacing the trout

(Continued on page 266)

They could have

I 944.

RECREATION

The Contribution of Recreation to Morale

HE CONTRIBUTION that

wholesome, well-or-

dered recreation activ-
ity makes to maintaining
morale in our armed forces
cannot be overestimated.
There is no doubt that the
high morale which prevails
among the personnel is due
to the fact that all realize
the inevitability of victory,
but there are other factors
that contribute to this

By Private TOM WISWELL

 

Private Wiswell bases his conviction re-
garding the value of recreation as a morale
builder on observations made during his six
months in the ArmyI andI previous to that.
during several trips in the Merchant Marine
when he visited many USO centers. From all
these experiences one thing stands out—and
that is the high morale prevailing among +he

personnel in every part of the war theater. _

Private Wiswell is a well-known checker player
and author of several books. among them Let’s

Play Checkers, Checker Magic, and Chess.

was a complete revelation.
One demonstration was
aboard an oil tanker in
the Gulf of Mexico for
the benefit of able-bodied
seamen and members of
the “black gang.” It was
during that difficult period
in our war effort when
the depredations of the
marauding Nazi U-boats
were at their high, and
yet not a man in this in-

 

wholesome attitude.

It is our sincere belief
. that when the smoke of
battle has finally cleared and the forces of the
United Nations stand triumphant, one of the
I major factors contributing to our victory will have
been recreation and sports activity. In no other
major military enterprise in our history has the
lighting man’been given such splendid facilities for
games, sports, and recreation in many varied
forms. The USO centers, camp shows, day rooms,
and recreation provided by local communities near
training camps have all played a vital role in this
important phase, of our war effort.

In our use of: the term “recreation” in this
article, we are concerned with such pastimes as
chess, checkers, table tennis,
bridge, and other games that
bring skill into play. ~‘
These are not games
of chance, and it is
the player who ex-
cels by sheer skill
and application who
wins.

The writer had
the privilege of giv-
ing many exhibi-
tions in chess and
checkers for ser-
vicemen and Mer—
chant Marine sail-
ors, and the interest
displayed by these
men in such games

AUGUST 1944

 

They don't wait until they're grown
up to enioy such games as checkers!

‘0

 

v O
a - _ t
,  .71.,” , fwmunxaaglw,nr a  5,,  nan-:33;  (I?  I v" _ m}. .. 7

Courtesy Chester, Pa., Recreation Board

terested gathering gave a
thought to the danger so
near at hand, so com-
pletely absorbed was everyone in the exhibition.
It is this freedom from worry for even a short
period which helps keep a man going, and re-
freshes and invigorates him for new ordeals and
hardships.

The very ship on which this exhibition had been
given was later blown up, and many members of
the crew were lost. Among the few articles sal-
vaged by the men were a chessboard and a set of
chessmen which the survivors later used to while
away the tedious hours of awaiting new orders.

The man in the Army, too, gets a real “kick”
out of these old, yet ever new games. The writer
has given blindfold checker
demonstrations for several hun-
dred men and of-
ficers at one time,
and the interest dis-
played has been
nothing short of
phenomenal. A col-
umnoof checkers
which is run in The
Gas Bag, our camp
paper at Tyson, is
eagerly read by the
men and sent to
comrades overseas
in England, North
Africa, and Aus-

tralia.

(Continued on
page 274)_

237

Still with US—Youth Centers!

They go on and on—these Youth Centers! And if RECREATION seems to you
to be publishing a great many articles about them, it’s merely because there’s such
a demand from all over the country for more information on the subject.
If you’ve anything to contribute from your experience, we want to hear from you.

The "Rec"

By JANE PARSONS
New Philadelphia. Ohio

" OULD YOU MIND telling me where the wreck
W is i’” asked the new art teacher of one of
her students as he hurried out of the

room.

“Sure. It’s up on the corner of Broadway across
from the Post Office.”

“Yes, but —” but the young man was gone. She
turned to the history teacher. “What is the matter
with that corner? Every night all the children run
out, screaming, ‘I’ll meet you at the wreck !’ Why,
I never saw such a town for accidents.”

“A wreck? Oh, you mean the ‘Rec.’ ” The his-
tory teacher laughed. “Why, that’s the recreation
center.”

“Well, of all things l”

Yes—“well, of all things!” A youth center—a
place that belongs to the youngsters exclusively—-
or almost so, because the older ones are always
welcome; we believe in our town that everyone
should live together like one big family. And they
do at the “Rec,” which is an old, large home with
twenty-two rooms where anyone from six years
up may go for a good time.

In the fall of 1942, ten men and one woman
met in the Mayor’s office to talk about a crazy idea
called a recreation center. They had at their dis-
posal $2,500, and that seemed like a lot of money.
After a winter of planning. discussing, scrubbing
floors and painting walls, the
Youth Center was opened in
June 1943. One of the teach-
ers, Vincent Carter, offered his
services for the summer months.
Things did not run very
smoothly. Too many people
were rather dubious about the
project, and the young people

238

Jane Parsons. author of this story and
director of the "Rec." says of herself
that she is a preacher's daughter. a
graduate of a girls' school, and can
fly a plane but is too short and too
small to add to the war effort in that
respect! So she is making her contri-
bution to the winning of the war by
serving at the town's Youth Center.

went to other places. School was just around the
corner, Mr. Carter had to return, and it seemed
as if the board of directors had a South Sea bubble
———and that was all. With some misgiving, at Mr.
Carter’s recommendation they hired a twenty—
four-year-old girl who, like all the other young
people of New Philadelphia, had roamed the town
looking for a place to eat and dance. “Give them
a lunchroom and a nickelodeon,” she said, “and
you’ll be surprised.” The board took her advice—
and were surprised! After they had converted one
room into a lunchroom, thrown out the hand—
operated victrolas and bought a nickelodeon, over—
night the membership went to a thousand, with an
attendance ranging from 150 to 300 or more a
night. Crowded? N 0, but watch out for your
neighbor’s toes!

This fall the board of directors, made up of rep-
resentatives from the service clubs, ministerial as—

sociation, the P.T.A, school board, and City Coun-

cil, asked the Community Chest for $3, 500 to carry
on the work at the center. This group meets once
a month at the center to discuss the work that has
been done and plan for the future. The young
people may appear before them for anything they
feel is necessary for the centeis A junior board
representing the young people is being organized.
These ten young peOple are over seventeen years
of age and are chosen from the various churches in
town in order to have a wide representation.

What You Can Do at the “Rec”

There are few rules. You must have a member-

ship card, and you must remember that the center

is a home, not a barn, and treat
it as such. And most important
of all, you must respect the
rights of others. In order to he
a member you ask for an appli-
cation card, and when it is re—
turned you are given a year’s
membership without any fee.
Members are divided into three

RECREATION

 

STILL WITH US— YO UTH CENTERS! 239

 

age groups: 6 to II, 12 to I5, and 16 up. All
activities are scheduled upon this basis.

The children under twelve years of age are per—
‘ mitted to use the building after school, and until
, 8:00 on certain evenings during the week. Any-
) one under sixteen must leave
‘ at 9 :00 for the curfew rings at
10:00 (and they know it’s en—
forced, and parents have to pay
for offenders). The older group
stays until II :00 or 12:00.

If you want to loaf, the
“Rec” is the place to go to, for
there’s a loafing room. Dance? Then there’s the
nickelodeon and a dance Floor. Or if you wish
just to hang the piano or listen to some future
Eddie Duchin—then go to one of the living rooms.
There’s food, if you are hungry or thirsty, and
a radio for your favorite program.
For the more active young pe0p1e
there is table tennis and plenty of
experts with whom to play. You
may join a hobby club, go intel—
lectual with the debate squad or
aeronautics class, or find a quiet
place to read.

A workshop is open certain
hours for boys and girls to make
articles for themselves or the cen-
ter, or to try a little interior dec—
orating or art work. If all this
bores you and if you have a
penny to spare you may buy the
Weekly Rec and find out when
the orchestra is favoring the mem-
bers with a real dance, or if the

AUGUST 1944

The people who live in New Phila-
delphia. Ohio, have the comfortable
feeling that the next generation is
going to find the town a better place
to live in because of the I'Rec" es-
tablished on the corner of Broadway!

“Ramblin’ Rec’s” won or lost
their last basketball game. You
can skip the gossip column and
the original jokes, if you want to,
and read the editorial that ex—
presses the viewpoints of the
future voters of New Philadel-
phia. i

Every night of the week vari-
ous clubs send a member to help
in the leadership of the youth
center, or give a hand with the
clubs. The lunchroom is run
completely by volunteers. One of
the young people takes care of
registration at the front desk or
checks coats in, or games out,
while others wait on tables.

Once a month, with the profit from the lunch-
room, a party with “eats” is given to all the mem-
bers. These are gala events. Younger members
come early and play games, while the older ones
arrive later to dance—square or jitter. These are
not the only parties, for hardly
a week goes by that some
group, young or old, does not
reserve a room for a get-to-
gether.

During the afternoons the
building is open to the older
groups in town who want to
have a meeting or a tea. Anyone may reserve one
room in advance, but the building is never closed
to the members, being open every day and night
of the week, and Sundays after church in the
evening.

 

240

The “Rec” is not the quietest place in town,
but at least there is never a dull moment, and
everyone is happy. The citizens of New Phila-
delphia are very proud of their achievement.
Juvenile delinquency? According to the figures it
has been cut in half since the Opening of the
center, and is still going down. For the first year,
the police said, they have not had to watch youth
gatherings, such as basketball games and dances,
and even the pep meetings have been orderly.
Each day new parents are added to the group who
don’t have to worry about their children because
they’re at the “Rec.” And the next generation
will see New Philadelphia a better town, because
of that “Rec” down on the corner of Broadway!

Torner House Teen-Agers

TORNER HOUSE has become 'the center for teen
age activities in Terre Haute, Indiana, ever
since the Recreation Commission first initiated a
program for teen age boys and girls in that build—
ing last summer. The programs, which consist of
dancing, games, and community singing are held
two nights each week. Attendance has increased
rapidly and the group now totals Over 200 members.

A few months after these programs were intro—
duced, the Torner Youth Club was formed and
membership cards were issued to all teen age boys
'and girls who desired them. Not to be outdone,
the children under thirteen years of age have
formed the Junior Torner Youth Club and their
membership cards have the words “junior mem—
ber” written on them. The “juniors” also have an
activity program all their own.

Within the senior youth organization, a boys’

club and a girls’ club have been organized with .

separate club rooms. Each club elects ofhcers and
holds meetings one night a week. A council com—
posed of five members, president of the boys’ club,

and president of the girls’ club are elected to draw

up rules and regulations for the Youth Club.

The boys painted their own
club room in the basement
and also the girls’ club rooms
on the second floor of Torner
House. The rooms were sup-
plied with furniture given to
the Commission by the USO.
The boys have started boxing
and are also going to the
Y.M.C.A. one night each

"Our attack on delinquency must be sus—
tainedI not sporadic; it must be con-
certedl not piecemeal action. Delin-
quency does not take a vacation. or
observe the holidays. or subside on Sun-
day. We need to intensify our efforts
at certain hours and times of the year.
but we cannot afford ever to stop them

entirely.”—Austin H. M acCormick in
the Satéeg M idmontbly, March I944.

STILL WITH USHYOUTH CENTERS .’

week. Training facilities for boxing have been set
up and large groups of boys are taking advantage
of them. The night at the “Y” is spent in swim-
ming and the learning of fundamentals of basket—
ball. Practice games have also been played by
dividing the boys into groups.

The first project of the Torner Youth Club Coun-
cil was a Halloween party held last October in
Torner House. Everyone who attended was masked
and games and dancing were enjoyed by all. Re-
freshments, too, went over in a big way.

During the fall the boys of Torner House or-
ganized a football team, known as the Torner
Tigers, which played several games with high
school “C” teams and other organized groups. The
equipment for this group was furnished by Indiana
State Teachers College, Garfield High School, and
Gerstmeyer High School.

The last major project of the Youth Council for
the year 1943 was the Christmas party held at
Torner House. All the members of the Recrea-
tion Commission and other pe0ple interested in the
program were sent invitations—and the turnout
was large. The recreation room was decorated with
two large Christmas trees donated by the Round
Table Study Club, Christmas bells, and red and
green crepe paper. The evening was spent in play—
ing games, dancing, and carol singing. Refresh-
ments of ice cream and cake were served.

The Pirates’ Den

N 1939 PARENTS of Anthony, Kansas, youngsters
I were a little worried. The only recreation fa—
cilities in the town of 3,000 were of the commer-
cial variety and these were few. Roadhouses,
dance hall and beer “joints” in surrounding towns
were attracting teen age boys and girls in too great
numbers for the peace of mind of their parents.

But instead of asking the school or other or—
ganizations to take over the recreation problems of
their children, several mothers banded together,
secured permission to use the,
upper floor of the City Hall,
as a recreation center, and
with the help of the service
clubs equipped it with ping—
pong tables, miniature pool
tables, checkers, dominoes,
other games and a juke box
for dancing.

High school students dc;

RECREATION

l

o
;

 

 

“The Pirates’ Den,” and for

STILL WITH US—YOUTH CENTERS! 241

signed and installed the deco-
rations. As the high school
symbol is a pirate it was only
natural that the center be called

mothers.
five years it has been providing
wholesome recreation and fun
for Anthony’s younger set.

A committee of mothers provides supervision
and assistance in helping the young people with
their fun problems. The “Den” is open each Fri—
day and Saturday evening and after all major
school events. During the athletic season players
and members of the student bodies of visiting
schools are invited as guests. Admission is limited
to members of the senior high school student body,
but parties are planned for junior high school
pupils several times during the year.

There are no dues or fees of any kind. Students

provide the nickels for the juke box or, if coins ‘

seem a little scarce, members of the committee
keep the music going.

If any funds are needed for equipment or deco-
rations the “Motliers’ Committee” has little trouble
securing all it needs, for Anthony is sold on this
effort of parents to provide for some of the recrea-
tional and amusement needs of their children.

Rules of the Parent and Student Committee are
simple—students are expected to have fun and to
observe the rights of others. A few quiet sugges-
tions have taken care of most of the problems

I which have arisen.

The unique features of
the Pirates’ Den are that it
was one of the first of such
centers in the state and
most important of all— it
was created not by organi-

The Recreation Department
of the Hamtramck. Michigan.
Public Schools has opened a
teen age club center equip-
ped with a juke box. table
tennis. and other games.
Although many of the young
people are serving in the
armed forces. participation
in the recreation program
by this age group is greater
than it has ever been.

AUGUST 1944

The Pirates' Den in Anthony. Kansas.
is the upper tloor of the City
appropriately decorated by the boys
and girls. and equipped by their
It's just a place where
parents and children move in for an
evening because it's better equipped
for tun than is the average home.

zations to help take care of the
“youth problem,” but by par-
ents who were interested in
and willing to help with the
recreational problems and wel-
fare of their own children and
those of their neighbors. The
Anthony Pirates’ Den is not
just another youth organization—it is parents and
children moving for the evening to a location
which is better equipped for fun than is the
average home.

Hall.

There’s an Idea Behind
the "Paper Doll”

OR YEARS, people who understand public rela-
F tions have been advising all recreation depart-
ments to do two things: (I) offer activities that
fill current needs; (2) make a steady effort to
widen the circle of people who know what the
recreation department is doing.

Rules and advice are always a bit abstract. Now,
suddenly, along comes a recreation "trend that
makes the general, abstract advice graphic. Do
we mean “youth centers”? We do.

Iowa City’s “Paper Doll” is an excellent ex-

ample.
Every good recreation director’s dream of

Bi

‘b
i" " 6 - s‘ s' » ‘i “ r
t' 4.. t V b '— .gh‘ Ms” *5 ..
(mitmj a». £3». divas. ~- $668» * w. aurora * ~

 

242 STILL WITH US—YOUTH CENTERS!

achievement probably includes
that of having one of his city’s
leading lights comment: “I’ve
never seen anything like the
way the high school crowd is
taking to that new idea over _
at the recreation center—‘dry night club,’ isn’t it?
Don’t they call it the ‘Paper Doll’? When I
heard they had seven hundred members last week,
I went over one night and checked up. They’ve
got that many people in the club and more,.and the
youngsters are having such a good time it’s a
pleasure to watch the fun.

“I knew they had some interesting activities
over at the center, and I always thought that the
recreation program was agood idea, but I always
had the feeling that the center was a place where
the boys and girls in town who didn’t have any
better place to go went for a little fun. This Paper
Doll business has made an impression on the whole
town. The parents in every neighborhood really
appreciate it.” '

This conversation actually took place. The man
who said it not only knows people in town, he
knows the town. His business is knowing what
the public thinks and how it reacts.

Iowa City’s Paper Doll is young. Today it has
a thousand members. By May it may have only
fifty. However, whether it lasts six months or six
years, it would seem to furnish a valuable idea for
getting recreation participation.

Not that the idea of Friday and Saturday teen
age dances was new to Iowa City. One of the
first programs introduced by  Edgar Frame,
when he came to the university town two years
ago as director of recreation, was to inaugurate
7 to II o’clock dances on Friday and Saturday
nights.

As now, the dances took place in the gym. As

now, tables (built by boys

Iowa City, IowaI is a community of
l7,000 people which is looking after
its young people. The story of the

"Paper Doll." the city's Youth Center.
is tood tor thought -— and action.

papers in Iowa City, but in
Cedar Rapids, Waterloo, and
other near—by cities.

“Nearly 400 Crowd Paper

D011.” . . . “Dry Night Club'

Opens with Success at Recrea—
tion Center.” . . . “Dry Nighterie for Juveniles at
Iowa City.” . . . “High Schoolers Enjoy Own
Night Club.” . . . “Snack Bar at Paper Doll Popu—

lar Spot.”

The Iowa City Press—Citizen even editorialized
under the title, “By and For the' Youngsters.” To

quote :

“Friday evening, there will open in Iowa City a
night club for youngsters of high school age—~which
fact leads us to comment that perhaps now we’re
getting some place. Too often, it seems, people are
too ready to condemn young people for their atti-
tudes and antics, overlooking as they do, some of the
reasons that contribute to the situations that may
arise. While there are many things that go into the
make—up of a healthy attitude on the part of youth,
among them the very great and important influence
of the home, one may well single out the provision
of proper recreation facilities as one of the most
important. The Paper Doll, the new dry night club,
will ‘be one of the youngsters, by the youngsters, and
for the youngsters. Our congratulations to J. Edgar
Frame, Recreation Center Director, for sponsoring
this project, and to the City Council for giving its
full approval.”

“Of the youngsters, by the youngsters, and for
the youngsters” indicates one of the main reasons
for the headlines. It is not the only reason.

Early in November, a number of the youngsters
hunted Mr. Frame up in the game room where he
was repairing a billiard table.

“Quite a crowd of kids are circulating a peti—
tion,” a tall blonde handball expert told him. “We
all want a club of our own."

Director Frame took over the loud ,speaker

before intermission. He

in the craft classes) bor—
dered the dance floor. As
now, there was a place that
sold snacks. The room was
decorated. The lights were
low.

During this time, how-
ever, it was just a popu—
lar Friday and Saturday
night diversion at the rec—
reation center. Then, on
January 9th, it made head—
lines, not only in the

"The worker with youth cannot isolate young
people and their problems from the total com-
munity picture. Therefore it is often neces-
sary to work on phases of the community prob-
lem which. at the time. seem unrelated to the
problems of youth. The worker is also aware
that recreation for youth is not a panacea and
that even when youth specify particular activi-
ties which they want. there are usually other
underlying needs that are brought out through
participation and study. Recreation is often
the first step toward solving these unmet and
unexpressed needs and desires of youth."—
From the Progress Report of the Wayne
CountyI MichiganI Youth Guidance Committee.

told the dancers he’d heard
about their petition and
invited all those interested
to a meeting during inter—
mission. At the meeting,
the teens talked. Mr. Frame
listened. He advised them
to form an acting commit—
tee. He suggested they
elect representatives from
all the schools and from
all the different cliques in
the different schools. “Be

RECREATION

l

,mission, schools, and parents was

STILL WITH US—-YOUTH CENTERS! 243

sure to include everyone,” he ad-
vised them. “You want this an all-
high-school affair. Get the noisy
ones, the quiet ones, the bold ones,
and the retiring. You want them

all.”
They got them.

Another meeting of all the repre-
sentatives followed. Officers were
elected. The president and secretary
are both girls, but there are plenty
of boys on the Junior Cduncil (the
name chosen for the governing body
of the club). Of the twelve council
members, in fact, eight are boys.

With the help of Director Frame,
the approval of the Recreation Com-

secured. A curfew had been passed
which ordered children under six-
teen off the streets at 10:30. Many
high schoolers were under sixteen.
The City Council was approached,
gave its approval of Friday night
hours of 7 to II and Saturday night
hours of 7 to II :30. A juke box was installed.
Everything was set but the “club” atmosphere.

What provides the “glamour” for the Paper
Doll?

The decoration committee went into a huddle
and came out with--crepe paper! But their crepe
paper idea is “clubby‘,” scientific, and permanent.
It’s a centerpiece, Hollywood size, built on a
wooden base that does a thOrough job of conceal-
ing center gym lights and is a substitute for the
old crepe-paper streamers Haring out to the walls.
Friday afternoons, it takes three or four high
school “huskies” only a little while to hoist the
centerpiece up to the gym ceiling by a rope ar-
rangement. Once in place at night, the Paper
Doll’s as different from the gym dance of 1930 as
the Rainbow Room is from a cafeteria. But the

“glamour” is strictly crepe paper . . . and dimmed
lights.

;\

And the “bar.” The original dance had a snack
stand, as mentioned before. But even its creators
admit it was nothing like its Paper Doll successor.
The Refreshment Committee of the Junior Coun-
cil had a single urge What they wanted was a
bwa-r. They got it. A dad who carpenters for a.pro-
fession concocted a blonde wood creation that’s a
pleasure to step up to. Total cost: $23.

AUGUST 1944

 

Signs back of the bar do the job of “menus” at
one stroke. They’re strictly Golden Bantam. The
list carries the heading: “For those and them still
on the bottle.” Another sign reads: “Great big
hot dog—IO cents.” And there’s a drawing of an
animated frankfurter with a wise look and a curly
tail. Primer printing spells out: “This is a dog.”
Another sign heading runs: “Sure We Got”—and
proceeds to list “Tater Chips,” and other re-
freshments.

Even Friday nights, between 7 and 9 :30, when
junior high people are guests at their special
dance hours, President Shirley Jackson and Secre-
tary Laura V andenburg are the “hired help” who
find out what the boys in the short pants want and
serve forth hot dogs, pop, cokes, popcorn, and

candy.

The council members are a hard working lot. It
was they who decided the club should have a name.
It was they who wore themselves out concocting
one. They issue membership cards and see every-
one’s card who enters for each dance. Once a
month there’s dancing to a real five-piece orches-
tra ($5 a “piece”) instead of the juke box. Besides
dancing, there’s the game room. With its billiard
tables, table tennis, and every imaginable game,
it’s always patronized. Newest development is a

244 STILL W'ITH [IS—YOUTH CENTERS!

club gossip sheet (“blab sheet”-—-—to quote a junior
member).

That’s just about the story of the Paper Doll
anyway you track it down. Question Recreation
Director Frame. Ask the young members. Three
attractions seem to make all the difference: The
fact that it’s a club with membership cards and a
council. The juke box and real orchestra. The

“bar.”

Does the Paper Doll have any general advice to
offer? For snack supplies. keep track of every
item, even miscellaneous small purchases. Director
Frame acts as what he terms “flunky poster” for
the books. He tabulates coke, pop, etc., as it’s
delivered. A Council member checks on-hand sup—
plies before business and after the evening is over.
If strawberry pop doesn’t sell well, inquiries are
put to customers. Future stock is set up accord-
ingly. The Paper Doll tried sandwiches; found
them difficult and unsuccessful. Hot dogs are a
big success. Most profitable supplies are pop,
popcorn, candy.

There’s the story of the recreation idea that
made headlines, got 1,000 members, brought brand-
new people to the recreation center, awakened
parents and the community to the recreation pro-
gram. Is it a clue to securing other recreation

participation ?

Granted that participation should develop nat-
urally and genuinely, would recreation hasten this

development by tuning in
on current trends a bit

The school band is a much appreciated feature
of the program at La Cabana every Friday night

more? Do even adults respond more readily to
something that’s made a bit of a game? Do we all
react unconsciously to the way a package (or
idea) is wrapped up?

Business follows a steady principle: It offers
people what they want. It sometimes goes to great
lengths to survey what people want. Right now
recreation is doing a fine job of offering teens what
they want. Could it do an equally interesting job,
perhaps, of offering the sub-teens, girls, and adults
what they Want?

Helping Youth to Help
Themselves

By ETHELWYN G. CORNELIUS

THACA, NEW YORK, a community of 20,000 peo-
I ple, has, along with many other cities, awakened
to the needs of teen-agers.

From a survey conducted by the Ithaca Youth
Council and observations of many adults in daily
contact with the boys and girls, evidence came to
light that a real need existed for a place which the
teen—agers could call their own. A number of civic
organizations were interested in helping these
young people, and meetings were held to discuss
ways and means. The American Legion then came
forward with the offer of a recreation hall.

The next step was get-
ting organized. A senior

 

RECREATION

STILL WITH [IS—YOUTH CENTERS! 245

board was formed, composed of representatives-

from the Youth and Service Council, Ithaca
women’s clubs, and the schools, with the Ameri—
can Legion and Auxiliary as sponsor. Each mem-
ber of this board has a definite responsibility, but it
acts mainly in an advisory capacity. A junior board
was then set up in the senior and junior high
schools, and its members took on the job of plan-
ning, organizing and carrying on the club which
by this time had a name chosen by the boys and

girls—La Cabana.

Junior board members and their friends worked
long hours to get the club started, while the money,
the furniture, and the overhead expenses were

. provided by the senior board. After several weeks

of making curtains, painting walls and murals,
locating the juke box and records, fixing the soda
bar, La Cabana became. a reality.

Opening night attracted a capacity crowd. The
school swing band provided the music, refresh-
ments were sold out, and everyone had a wonder-
ful time. About 300 teen-agers were present. This
is the usual attendance, although on some nights
the number drops to around 100.

The junior board is gradually working out
house rules and membership regulations. A
nominal fee of twenty-fivercents a month is charged
for membership. At present the club is open on
Friday nights from 7:30 to 1 I :30, Saturday after—
noons from 3:00 to 5:30, and Saturday nights
from 7 :30 to 12 :00. r-The band plays every Friday
night while on Saturdays the juke box, games and
special programs hold sway.

A chaperon system has been worked out with‘

the help of the senior board, and oné or two
adults are at La Cabana
each night. Many people

Recreation for Negro Youth

By LINA TYLER

Recreation Supervisor
Flint, Michigan

LINT, MICHIGAN, only a few months ago faced
F a definite challenge in providing wholesome
recreation for Negro youth in that city. The Rec-
reation Department took up the challenge and pro-
vided a prompt answer—a series of informal
dances planned by and for Negro teen-agers.

The Department has two colored community
houses: one is located on the north side of the
city where eighty-five per cent of all Negroes in
Flint live, and the other is located on the south
side. .

Negro high school youths had no definite spot
to dance-——a place which they could call their own
for their age group alone. With the help of the
colored workers, the Recreation Department sug-
gested that a Negro Youth Council be formed
consisting of some of the key colored youths in
both communities.

The first council meeting took place at the
Clifford Street Community House on January 7th
where plans for the first dance to be held January
21st were made. This was to be an invitation
affair with the names and addresses submitted by
council members and the age limit ranging from
16 to 20 years. The first and third Friday of every
month were reserved as the regular dance sched-
ule with dancing from 9 to 12 o’clock. The music
was provided through the Junior Chamber of
Commerce which purchased a juke box for the
Community House.

The first affair was a

in the town have helped
the boys and girls by donat-
ing money, helping them
find the things they need,
giving their services, and
standing behind them in
every way.

Ithaca is really. doing
something to meet the
needs of its youth, and
everyone in the commu-
nity is proud of La Cabana
and of the boys and girls

(‘

who are running it on
their own.”

AUGUST 1944

"You will get a thrill out of our new Youth
Center," writes F. R. BurlsonI Secretary of the
Kankakee. IllinoisI Chamber of Commerce.
"We call it the 'Circus.' The ceiling of the
long room has been painted to resemble a
tent: the side walls are decorated with circus
postersI with imitation cages; the raised plat-
form for dancing represents a circus ringI and
the soft drink bar at the end of the room re-
sembles a big base drum lying on its side. One
small front room has become a game room and
a second room will serve as a crafts workroom.

"To insure the interest of parents we have
organized a Big Top Club which will contrib-
ute liberally toward the remodeling and main-
tenance of the Center. In addition to these
gifts and some miscellaneous incomel we now
have $6,000 a year from the Community Chest."

huge success. One hun—
dred invitations were sent
out, and each person who
was invited was asked to
bring the invitation along.
Ninety-five were returned.

The second dance was
known "as the “Coat Hanger
Dance,” as a new coat rack
had been built but no metal
hangers were available.
Everyone attending the
dance was asked to bring
one coat hanger. By this

( Continued on page 276)

A Playground in the Jungle

ow WERE our servicemen
H with so little military

training able to adapt themselves so quickly
and readily to military life? How, with less than
a year of such training in many cases, has it been
possible for them to face an enemy who has built
up the fighting spirit of their men over a long
period of years?

One answer which explains this remarkable
adaptability on the part of our men may be found
in what American educators call “carry-over
values”—the quality deve10ped through our rec-
reation and sports program by which essentials are
developed by participants in one activity which
may be carried over to another activity of a dif-
ferent kind. American coaches have for years
taught our boys on the football field ways of out-
maneuvering their opponents, how and where to
strike, and where the weak points of the opposing
team lie. These tactics are being carried from the
football field to the battlefield.

Other sports, if analyzed, would prove to have
values essential to combat. Even in the simple
game of Throw and Catch, coordination and ac-
curacy, both important in war, are highly de-
veloped. Hide and Seek, played so often in our
childhood, has taught us the importance of silence,
discipline, and something of the art of camoufiage.
Thus through our play certain skills essential in
meeting the present emergency have been deveIOped.
: When a serviceman is in training or fighting he
is greatly in need of keeping fit through games and
sports, and facilities for recreation are important.
“How can I play games,” the serviceman often
asks, “if there are no facilities?”

This question was answered by the work of the
Special Service Officer and the men of the 14th
Evacuation HOSpital when they made a playground
in the jungle. The immediate and very important
job, to be sure, was to set up a hospital, but the
completion of this was followed by the building of
a two block square athletic field. Through a tow-
ering cluster of trees a powerful “cat” paved the
way for our field. In a short time we had cleared
and leveled a surface which looked like nothing
more than a large parking lot. But through the
resourcefulness of the Special Service Officer and
the men working with him the jungle playground
was completed.

246

By Private CHARLES ZABIN

In the course of their con-
struction work these men per-
formed prodigious feats! Tree trunks and bamboo
poles were used as supports in making volley ball,
basketball, and badminton courts. It was sug-
gested that long, thin bamboo strips placed hori-
zontally on the ground and joined vertically by
strings, leaving one inch between the strips, would
make good nets. As it happened we had enough
rope for the boxing ring, so the suggestion that
long, flexible vines might be held together by
short strips of rope was not acted upon. The soft- -
ball field was laid out according to official rules
and occupied a large portion of the field. An out-
door stage was built for plays and was in use soon
after the men arrived. The one facility which our
athletic field lacked but which will be constructed
soon is a miniature golf course. This could easily
be made from scrap pieces found around the field.
One inch thick branches, V-shaped at the end,
could be used as clubs, and almost anything round
and hard, as balls.

The screen for movies was set up on a higher
level off the athletic field so that it could be easily
seen by all.

One of the most important features comprising
the recreation layout was our day room. A native
built basha divided by a partition gave us two
sections—one to be used as a library and study,
the other as a quiet game room. At present, bridge.
and table tennis tournaments are the chief at-
fractions.

With the recreation facilities completed, our
Special Service Officer organized the personnel of
the.camp to compete in various sports. Ward
technicians, cooks, motor pool men, supply men,
and others were organized into teams competing in
intraleague sports. The greatest event was our
athletic field day when the entire field was dotted
with sun tanned bodies engaging in volley ball,
basketball, badminton, horseshoe pitching, table
tennis, and other games. The work of the hospital
was so arranged that a number of men might take
part at one time without affecting hospital rou-
tine. Awards were made, and everyone had a won—
derful time. As far as it is possible more of these
field days will be introduced into the program as
time goes on. The enthusiasm and interest of the-

(Continued on page 275)

RECREATION

A Boy...A Water Wheel...And a Dream!

 

seen a more beautiful sight. . . . Over a little

dam spilled the water of the country ditch. The
homemade water wheel began to turn on its rake-
handle shaft. Faster and faster it went. Next step
was to connect it to an old coffee mill inside the
woodshed.

Pebbles were poured into the churning mill.
They sparked and crackled like a Fourth of July
display, grinding noisily into sand to be used later
for a casting mold.

Here in this water wheel was the first moving
device ever created by Henry Ford!

Meantime, somewhere inside his inquiring mind,
.a dream was struggling to shape itself. A dream
of other wheels that would one day turn to lighten

AUGUST 1944

IT WORKED! Perhaps no youngster had ever

the burdens of farm and industry . . . to change
the transportation habits of the nation.

Down through the years, from water wheels to
watches, to steam engines, to gasoline engines,
Henry Ford’s lively interest in wheels progressed.
And the rest is history—the history of America’s
great automobile industry.

From that day in May 1895, when the first
Ford car was wheeled into Bagley Avenue, De-
troit, more than 30,000,000 Ford—built cars and
trucks have been produced.

Yet the thought and spirit that prompted that
long-ago experiment with the water wheel have
never changed at Ford Motor Company. There is
still the same ingenuity that is not afraid to be

(Continued on page 275)

247

Promoting Employee Recreation

situation facing the man-

agement of Tube Turns
was not unlike that confront—
ing numerous other small in-
dustrial concerns suddenly
finding themselves with hun-
dreds of new employees. In a
city adjacent to several mili-
tary posts, and with a civilian
population influx of 5,000 a
month, employee spare time
recreation was beginning to
become a real problem.

Believing that recreation of the right sort was
necessary to provide employees with new interests
to replace the old and to take their minds off the
war, the company took the first step and hired a
full-time recreation director. That was last July.
From then on management has kept in the back-
ground.

An executive committee of twenty members was
elected to hold office for a year, thus giving the
whole set—up a democratic status from the start.
This group’s suggestion for the organization of
small departmental units to be known as Good
Fellowship Leagues was enthusiastically received
and resulted in the formation of seventy—two such
groups. Each of these units has its own constitu-
tion, its own fees, and its own recreational and
get-acquainted affairs. Some have had picnics,
skating parties, and dances. Parties have been
given for men going into the service, and for em-
ployees transferring to other work.

I N THE SUMMER of.1943, the

To provide an informal occasion for becoming -

really acquainted with the fellow who works three
machines down the aisle, or with the foreman, has
been the central idea in each case. The fact that
each unit is free to carry out its own ideas is con-
sidered a contributing factor in the success of the
plan. This is an employee program which belongs
to the group and is not the director’s responsi-
bility alone.

The Athletic Program

When the word “recreation” is mentioned there
is often a tendency to think of athletics. As in
many such programs, athletics does have a

248

By ORVAL C. HUSTED

Public Relations
Tube Turnsl Inc.

Promoting good times and neighborli-
ness among industrial workers through
the medium of good fellowship clubs
may be nothing new. but it is being
[used so successfully by employees of
Tube Turnsl Inc.I in Louisville. Ken-
tucky. that we are passing on their
experience for the benetit of similar
groups throughout the country.

prominent place in the em-
ployee recreation program.
Tube Turns teams have been
active in both intra-plant con-
tests and in city industrial
leagues, but the program is by
no means limited to sports.
An event of considerable in-
terest this past winter has been
the departmental basketball
tournament in which the com-
pany championship team was
picked. So many table tennis
stars developed in the plant
recreation room that it took weeks to play off the
tournament and pick the winners of the cups which
the company offered for the best players.
City-wide attention this winter has been at-
tracted to bowling, in which Tube Turns teams.
have taken a leading part. Early—bird alleys are
reserved from 10 A. M. until noon for men work-
ing the night shifts. Other reservations have been
made for nearly every evening of the week. On
VVe'dnesdays eighteen inter—departmental teams
have reservations, and on Fridays ten women’s.
teams bowl. Interest is so great that whole families.
spend the evenings boosting their favorite pinsters.
For those who enjoy golf, softball, horseshoes,
tennis, volley ball, and badminton, plans are being
carefully worked out with the city Recreation
Council and the Park Board in order to make the-
most use of available facilities.

Sports Only One Feature

Only one phase of the Recreation Council's
activities, however, is covered by the athletic phase
of the program. The need for relaxation is also
being met in other ways. Some of the men who
like to sing have organized a glee club. Negro
men have gone one better by having both a glee
club and a quartet, the latter being frequently
heard over the radio. A fifteen piece dance orches—
tra is the special pride of Tube Turns swingsters..
These groups choose their own directors, in keep--
ing with the democratic idea of the good fellow-
ship leagues.

A current activity being sponsored by one group
is an open city-wide j itterbug contest. The Council.

RECREATION:

t

», PROMOTING EMPLOYEE REL RILI'I‘IUN 24‘)

l has given the league members Results of the first eight
I

It is very encouraging that in increas-
ing numbers industrial plants are sending
us information about their recreation
programs for publication in the maga-

months of this recreation
program only confirm the
company’s conviction that

two free skating parties
financed through the pro-
ceeds of the three big Christ-

-maS dances necessary to aC' zine. We hope that 'many more such men and women cannot PUt
commodate company person- ' reports will be received. forth their greatest effort in
me]. - It may be of interest to some of our their work without some re-

A weekly Tube Turns readers +9 him” the" '3 new ediliO” 0* “‘9 laxation of the type which
night is being arranged at the b°°klel' Recreatlon for War Workets’ renews strength, and the kind

, i . with some revision. has been published , .
X .M.C.A., featurlng a cold under “19 mle' Recreation for Workers. of play which re-creates. The

 

picnic supper and a dance to Copies are available 6+ {my cemus from best worker is the worker
be followed  swimming in the National Récreation Association, given the opportunity t0 find
the Y pool. \Vhile members pleasure in simple things—
Ship fees and admissions clean play, music, dancing,
finance many of the activities, the company buys pleasant conversation, and good friendship.
sports equipment and awards.

Recreation Director Bob Howell is quick to At Chase Brass Company in Waterbury, Con-
explain that no man would get to first base in necticut, the Foremen’s Club sponsors an employee
‘sponsoring such a diversified program if it were recreation program which includes basketball,bowl-
not for the interest shown by the seventy-two good ing, and noon-hour movies. There is also a rifie
fellowship units, and the co- range, golf course and coun-
OPemtion Of his CounCil- Tickets go on sale for an event sponsored try Chib-

by Good Fellowship Leagues at Tube Turns

 

AUGUST 1944

New York's Handcraft Exhibit

RTICLES for the
A home, toys and
games, generally
useful articles and
hobbies were the main
divisions at the Hand-
craft Contest sponsored by the New York Depart-
ment of Parks and the New York Community
Trust. Juniors, 8-11 years; Intermediates, 12-14
years; and Seniors, I 5-17 years each devoted one
booth to all four of the above categories.

In preparation for the city-wide show, live
individual borough exhibitions were held, pre-
ceded by thirty-one district displays. There were
I 5,000 visitors to the district exhibitions, approxi-
mately 9,000 to the borough exhibits, and 5,500
persons viewed the city-wide exhibit at Education
Hall of the Museum of Natural History.

lrsgwra‘ warmer x
 in was».  mags: , 

wrrrrwrwn rim freq 

9 m g r 523;, W; W“ ,

250

3.000 boys and girls took part in New
York City's Handcraft ContestI and ap-
proximately 29.000 viewed the exhibits sets, picture frames,

O'-

 

Junior articles for
the home exhibit in-
cluded rugs, luncheon

waste baskets, etc. In

the toy division an
elaborate puppet stage, complete with puppets,
was on display. Hobbies showed a definite interest
on the part of boys toward model aircraft, and
dolls for the girls.

The largest number of articles were those
produced by the intermediate group. Included
here were footstools, ash trays, rugs, picture
frames, lamps, and other articles of furniture.
Leather purses and belts, wooden notebook covers,
and luncheon sets were also on display. In the
hobby division, planes predominated and there

(Continued on page 276)

as“
#W ‘

 - -- W -

: a I _“_ I . _.'  i
ii    u {"3 
, l5

RECREATION

I.
A Nature Fair

in
Houston, Texas

NATURE FAIR, sponsored by the Parks and
Recreation Department of Houston, Texas,

in cooperation with the I-IOuston Outdoor
Nature Club and other civic organizations, proved
a successful and unique event last year.

The fair marked the opening to the public of a
permanent nature trail in Hermann Park, and the

reopening of the Museum of Natural History.
During the period of the fair there were conducted
tours through the Zoo, and a number of exhibits
were on view. These included exhibits at the Gar—
den Center in Hermann Park of nature collections
and crafts arranged by the children either as indi-
viduals or in groups; similar entries from adults,
who were not, however, eligible for awards;
feature exhibits prepared by the Outdoor Nature
Club and local garden clubs; exhibits by the Parks
and Recreation Department and various govern-
mental agencies interested in natural history and
conservation; and commercial exhibits connected

with the theme of the fair.

At the. Garden Center there were such events
and activities as moving pictures on nature and
conservation, nature games for children, star gaz-
ing through a telescope, woodcraft demonstrations,
and a session of nature lore and song around a
huge campfire.

The program of the fair reads as follows:

FridayI November I9—Opening Day

2:00 to 10:00 Exhibits Open—Garden Center Building

2 :00 to 6 :00 Conducted tours of Nature Trails, Zoo and
Museum

7 :00 to 10 :00 Skies Through a Telescope—#Garden Center

8:00 to 10 :00 Outdoor Movies—Garden Center

8:00 OFFICIAL OPENING CEREMONIEs—Garden

Center
8 :30 Campfire Singing—Garden Center

SaturdayI November 20

2:00 to 10:00 Exhibits Openu—Garden Center Building
2:00 to 6:00 Conducted tours of Nature Trail, Zoo and

Museum
3 :00 Nature Games—Garden Center

4:00 \Voodcraft Demonstrations—Garden Center

AUGUST 1944

 

Gedge Harmon

7 :00 to 10 :00 Skies Through a Telescope—Garden Center
7 :00 to 10 :00 Outdoor Movies—Garden Center
8:00 Campfire Singing—Garden Center

Sunday. November 2|

2 :00 to 10 :00 Exhibits Open—Garden Center

2:00 to 4:00 Casting Tournament—Casting Pool

2 :00 to 6 :00 Conducted tours through Nature Trail, Zoo,
Museum

7 :00 to 10 :00 Skies Through a Telescope—Garden Center

7 :00 to 10 :00 Outdoor Movies—Garden Center

7:00 Campfire Singing—Garden Center

Nature Exhibit Contest
In the nature exhibit contest, which was open to

'any child or youth attending the public or private

schools in the Houston Independent School Dis-
trict or connected with any playground. group or
Boy and Girl Scout troop, exhibits were” entered
in the following classes:

Group A. Collections. Insects (except butter-
Hies and moths); butterflies_and moths; insect

galls; shells, pressed plants; twig, wood, seed or

fruit collection; abandoned bird nests ; rocks, min-
erals or fossils; all other collections.

Group B. Living Plants or Animals. Insects;
aquaria or microcosms; terraria; vertebrate ani-
mals; wild flowers; germinating plants; plants
growing in nutrients (without soil) ; plant experi-
ments; other living plants; other living animals.

Group C. Nature Crafts andHActivities. Bird
houses and feeding stations; other homemade
equipment such as aquaria, terraria, weather sta—
tions; telescopes ;photographs ; paintings, drawings
and scrapbooks; plaster casts ;, leaf prints; mush-
room spore prints; star maps and planetaria;
models and diorama; all other nature crafts; re-
ports on nature activities such as clubs, construc-

(Continued on page 275)

251

Handicraft House Pioneers in Recreation

OR SOME TIME we of the
Regina Recreation De-
partment had felt the

need of community playrooms ,
where the children of our city could have oppor-
tunity for play with leadership. With the con—
gestion and conditions brought about by the in—
dustrial situation, this need became a necessity.

We were fortunate in having a foundation laid
by the work of our physical director, Robert Cole-
man, who three years ago pointed out to the alder-
men on the Parks Committee and the Parks Board
that when the playgrounds were closed before the
skating rinks had been opened many children had
no place except the streets in which to play. He
began the program very modestly in a small vacant
building which he equipped as a sewing room and
woodworking shop. The children were definitely
interested, especially in the woodworking, and the
following year arts and crafts were added.

When it was discovered that the.chi1dren con-
tinued to come to the center even when the rinks
were open, the aldermen thought things over. For
some reason athletics and recreation had been
synonymous in" their minds. Of course they had
made a concession to the odd bookworm by estab—
lishing a series of children’s libraries, but children
wanting in large numbers to use their hands in
creative imaginations were new in their experience!

Soon it became necessary to move into new
quarters, and we were given a floor in what was
known as the Relief Building in downtown Regina.
The need for relief work was fortunately decreas—
ing, and soon Handicraft House occupied a second
floor. Two new departments were added—~music
and drama—and in the spring of 1943 we were
given a director, and the staff ceased to be em—
ployed on a seasonal basis.

We are strictly a taxpayers’ organization under
the Recreation Department of the Parks Board,
which fortunately has a sym—
pathetic understanding of our
objectives in children’s recre—
ation. One of these is to do
something for the children of
Mr. John Citizen who may
be duffers artistically, but ac—
complishing this is something
of a battle at the present. time

252

If any

By AGNES KNox MUTCHLER

DirectorI Handicraft House
' Regina. Canada

"There is nothing extraordinary. about
what has been done in our city." says
Mrs. MutchlerI "but we have done some
pioneering and it is harder to estab-
lish a precedent than to follow one.
part of our experience can be
helpful to some other community, we
shall be happy to be of assistance."

because the materials we
would like to use are unob-
tainable and it is necessary
_ for us to find inexpensive
things with which to work.

Our children come from every school in the
city. They feel that Handicraft House is theirs,
and they are learning within its four “walls to
express themselves in the various arts and crafts.
In the art department, devoted to painting and
drawing, the children with brown paper, charcoal,
and tempora paints make pictures of things they
have seen and stories they have heard or made
up. Many who come have little or no talent, but
in expressing themselves through this medium
they are as happy as their more talented neighbors.

About a hundred children a week, chiefly boys,
attend this department for the two and a half days
a week it is open. we hope before long to have an
exhibit of the children’s work, though the really
important exhibit is one which may be seen every
day—ma group of children busy working and having
fun, satisfying their creative urge through color
and line.

The war and the pocketbook of the average
citizen have more or less dictated the crafts we
teach. Many of the materials are off the market
and others are too expensive to be supplied free, so
we reached the decision to use material now avail—
able in Saskatchewan and have reduced our crafts
to two—weaving and clay.

For weaving we use the cotton threads still
available and provide opportunity for those chil-
dren who love color and design but who are not
particularly original and want, for a time at least,
to work with other people’s designs. The child
who is talented finds plenty of scope in working
with the clay available in the Province. The arti-
cles made are colored with tempora and have a
fairly successful quick glaze, which makes them
waterproof. The work is
crude for the most part, but
it is our hope that the chil-
dren will become sufficiently
interested to form a nucleus
of individuals who will de— -'
mand a pottery industry for
the Province, making it un—
necessary to import workers

RECREATION

 

H A A" DI CRAF T H 0 USE P1 ONEERS I N REC'RE. IT! ON

as is now being done for even the must rudi-

mentary jobs.

The drama room has been most successful. The
children first play charades, and from that activity
it‘is an easy step to acting stories they have had
read to them or made up about historical charac-
ters or peOple in other lands. They set their stage,
make their props in the woodworking room, and
their decorations in the art room. As many as
sixty children have attended the sessions.

After 8 :30 the
room is given over
to older children
who do script
work, rehearse
plays by recog-
nized dramatists,
and learn the line

,points which make
(1 r a m a a n a r t .
Most of these
youngsters Will
find happiness
in the little theater
when they are
grown up.

 In the music and
dancing depart-
ment the children
have choruses,
rhythm bands,
dancing, and musi—
t:a1 games. The
teaching is all done
in g r o u p s. A t
present a minstrel
Show is in re—
hearsal which the
older boys and
girls are greatly
enjoying. Studio
nights are held in
both these depart-
ments so that the
children may per-

form before audi-
ences.

W'e have intro-
duced an innova-
tion this year in
the teaching of

( Continued on
page 271)

AUGUST 1944

 

Courtesy Mary Meighen, Escanaba, Michigan

"We must do our utmost to develop in every
child the peculiar individual power that makes

him a person. We must teach him to know
the thrill of creation. . . lt is by doing the

thing he likesI the thing that is an expression of
his inner self' the thing that allows his creative
power to function' that the child gets an appre-
ciation "of his own strength."—Angelo Patti.

 

Photographed by Bill Puckelwalrt:
Cut loaned by Childhood Educatwn

Hobbies as Recreation for Older People

HE OTHER DAY a physician

friend of mine said that it

is highly desirable for one
to acquire a hobby as intense
and as all-absorbing as one’s
vocation or profession This will
add health and certainly will
prove of tremendous value to all
those who, after they reach the
age of retirement, unless they
have something definite to live
with, find life very boresome.

I recall some twenty-five
years ago when we were working on locating a
site for a camp for the youngsters of our commu-
nity center, I found it necessary to stay over to
rather a late hour in a small village near the site
which we finally selected, and had occasion to chat
with an old gentleman who, at the age of eighty,
was still carrying a mail bag from the drugstore to
the station and back, three times a day. When I
asked him why at his age it was necessary for him
to continue so difficult a task, he smiled and said:
“If I were to give up this job I would die. This is
what keeps me alive, and I have been interested
in this activity for a long, long time. As a matter
of fact, it is a great joy for me every time I carry
this bag from the drugstore to the train and from
the train to the drugstore, to know that the letters
I carry will in most instances bring joy to the
receivers. I dream of these things.”

A year later, when we opened our camp, I was
rather shocked to learn of the death of my aged
friend. When I asked the reason for his death,
aside from old age, the answer was this: John G’s
children insisted upon his retiring. Death came
within'a few weeks.

Physicians Have Hobbies

Some time ago I had occasion to visit what was
the first hobby show put on by the Chicago Medi—
cal Society. It proved a most successful affair. In
spite of the blizzard which raged that evening,
more than 200 persons attended the dinner which
preceded the opening of the show, and over 800
interested spectators visited the exhibits from 6 :00
P. M. until midnight. The exhibits were diversi-
fied and enlightening, and a spirit of good fellow—
ship prevailed.

254

By PHILIP L. SEMAN

 

Dr. Semanl General Direc’ror of the
Jewish People's Institute of Chicago.
and Chairman of the Chicago Recre-
ation CommissionI stresses the fact
that the problem of providing recrea-
+ion for the aged is one which must
be given l'houghl’ful attention by all
interested in recreation. °He poini's +o
hobbies as one possible solution;

 

This exhibit included the
hobbies of some of the out—
standing medical men in the l
city of Chicago. One of the
doctors exhibited archery bows l
and arrows made by himself; I
another, 350 souvenir spoons
that he collected from all over
the world; a third, a schema—
tic drawing of a hobby—horse
demonstrating his various hob-
bies. There were pictures of 1
hunting and fishing trips, the
head of a mountain sheep, a wall—eyed pike, and
similar exhibits. One doctor had an exhibit of l
words and music composed by himself; still an-
other had a collection of etchings. Another showed

pictures of lawn bowling, and balls.

There were a number of very interesting stamp l
collections; an exhibit of Chinese pottery and child
portraiture; birds’ eggs, together with pictures of '
birds; wood sculpture and photography; live rab— ll
bits and furs; caricatures of Viennese professors
and modern portraits; Philippine weapons; py- l
rography; cabinet work, drawings and cartoons;
medical history exhibited through the medium of +
medallions; a dollhouse, plaster work, wood carv—
ing," statues, a coach and four; a neglected chapter
in the history of anatomic illustration, anatomical
manikins of French, German and Italian construc-
tion—period I700 to 1800; interior rummaging '
and decorating; doll furniture; copper etchings;
coin collections; oil paintings and statues; por—
traits and engravings of doctors; old books on
ear, nose, throat, and acoustics; a specially con—
structed phonograph; pictures of distinguished
sons and daughters of medical women, and many,
many other exhibits.

There is a story told of a well—known university
president, who, after a lecture in a strange town,
was left alone until train time with only an aged
janitor. “If you don’t mind a modest home,” the
janitor suggested, “I would be proud to have you
wait at my place. You might like to see my
pictures.” There was eagerness in the old voice,
and not knowing how to refuse, the president ac—
cepted. He visualized a plush-covered album and
utter boredom, but the janitor surprised him! The
old man who earned his living with the broom and

RECREATION

HOBBIES AS RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE

mop laid out before the man of learning not formal
photographs, but rather wonderful photographs,
posed for beauty and developed with rare skill: a
willow tree in a stream, an aged oak bathed in the
magic of sunset, a lone maple at a lane entrance;
silver birches in a twinkling fairy dance.

.“You did all this?” exclaimed the_astonished
guest. The answer came very promptly, “Yes, it
is my recreation.” 

To go back to the doctors’ exhibit of hobbies. I
noted the names of all the exhibitors and wrote to
them asking them to give me the background of
their hobby and how they acquired it. I stated in
my letter that as I went through the exhibits I
realized what a tremendous impetus and encourage-
ment a description of each one of these would be
to young people. I added that I was desirous of
passing on the exhibits to the .literally thousands

'- ,of young people with whom I came in contact, and

in order to be able to do so intelligently, I would
appreciate their telling me the story of their par-
ticular exhibit—~how they became interested in the
hobby, when they began collecting, and some in-
teresting features in connection with their secur-
ing and making various items.

Practically everyone to whom I wrote replied,

' and I received some very interesting information.

, lighted room in

One doctor, whose hobby was wood working,
told me he had been at it for many years, and that
his greatest difficulty has been in maintaining a
workshOp. It was one of the principal reasons for
living in the same
apartment for
twelve years,
since the owner
is a sympathetic
soul and has al-
lowed him to use
a large, dry, well-

the basement. He
stated that his
shop is a com-
bination wood
working and ma-
chine shop, and
that his whole
family putters
around there.
Another phy-
sician called at-
tention to the
fact that the

AUGUST 1944

255

pictures he had exhibited were not collected, but
made by him. Two of them were dry point etch-
ings ; another, a wax crayon. In doing these pic-
tures he had tried to build a perfectly balanced
composition. One interesting fact which came to
light while he was making the crayon was that
because of the impossibility of blending the colors,
there was no cohesion between the different parts
of the picture. This he accomplished by going over
the entire surface with French grey. This, the
artist felt, shows how sometimes success can be
pulled out of failure.

Another exhibitor said that his first venture in
painting was at Devils Lake, Wisconsin, where,
inspired by the beautiful scenery, he made his {irst
water-color. It looked, he said, like the work of a
grammar school child, but he continued until the
pictures began to look like something. He has
never had any art instruction, having learned by
his own mistakes.

One doctor told me he always felt that “doing
it yourself” is the thing which is in contra-dis—
tinction to merely “collecting.” His real hobby,
he stated, would be collecting prints and etchings
from all over-the world, and yet, if he could make
etchings himself, there would be more satisfaction

Gardening—the hobby which grows more
p0pu|ar and important with every year

 

. .‘muv “M4.

Courtesy C hicago Recreation Commission

256 HOBBIES AS RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE

in it. In medical school, and
as an interne, he used to
make drawings for various
doctors, illustrating opera—
tions. It helped to pay his
way. He had previously had
some lessons from a grand
old man, who taught him to
draw in the rigorous stand-
ard method. He 'believed
that an arm or a body

should look as God intended
it to, and not like a distorted carrot! Owing to

the fact that he has had to practice medicine at
least part of the time, he has not had a chance to
do much drawing. However, he never travels, if
only to Wisconsin, without a sketching pad.
Another doctor started his hobby about seven

years ago when he visited a friend of his who was-

busy painting on glass. He became very much in—
terested and gathered full information. At that
time most of the paintings were done in transpar-
ent colors, but since then he has learned to com-
bine the Opaque colors as well. The paintings
themselves are really quite simple to do. A plate
of glass is placed over a design which is outlined
on the glass. After the paint has dried in from
four to six hours, it is only a matter of filling in
with the various colors. It usually takes approxi-
mately two to four weeks to finish a 12”}: 14”
picture, with the "limited spare time of a man
busily engaged in a profession, since one color has
to dry before another is put on beside it. Other-
wise the colors would blend.

An interesting story came from a doctor'who
became so interested in wood sculpture that he
had the urge to attempt it himself. The fact that
his son was taking lessons from a famous character
wood sculptor increased his interest. He viewed
the beginning of the life sized figures, carved from
wood, that were exhibited by General Motors dur-
ing the VVorld’s Fair, and was greatly impressed
by them. It is his feeling that wood sculpture has
opened to him another door to the appreciation of
other fine things in life.

Stamp collecting is proving very fascinating and

entertaining to one doctor, who is collecting the

stamps of British Colonies. Many an evening has
been brightened for this busy physician by his
stamp albums, and it is his feeling that this is the
experience of a great many others.

Several years ago a famous pediatrician passed
a jewelry store on one of the main streets of Paris

"A craftsman can take some material worth
five dollars and mate it into a watch worth
fifty. A great artist can‘take a fifty cent
piece of canvas and paint on it a picture
valued at hundreds of dollars. That's art.
Tennyson could take a worthless sheet of
paper. write a poem on it. and make it
worth $65,000. That's genius. You and I
can take a scrap of metal and hammer
and shape it into beautiful things for those
we love. Th'at's fun. and self—expression.

and a hobby." —Dr. David Monasb.

and saw in the window a
medallion of Louis Pasteur.
Although he had seen sev-
eral photographs of Pasteur,
a likeness of him on bronze
was novel to this physician.
He was especially impressed
by the fact that the medal-
lion was small enough to be
put into a,pocket and car—
ried about without injury.

Since that day this par-
ticular doctor has made a systematic search for
medallions of medical men. Paris, London, Ber—
iln, Budapest, Naples, Cairo, little towns in France I
and Hungary, have all been centers of his search.
His search for books has taught him that the best '
of them can be found, not on the main streets but I
on side streets, if one cannot afford to pay high .
prices for them. So he invaded antique shops
where one of these bronze pieces might be found
in the midst of a great deal of debris, old coins
and religious ornaments. His search for medal—
lions has become a part of his recreation.

The principal hobby of one doctor is building,
and he has found that when he has a fair idea of
what he wishes to construct and an idea of how to I
go about it he can reach his goal. Through his
hobbies he has learned how to get a complete i'

mental rest while enjoying physical activity,-which ‘1

sharpens the mind and keeps the body functioning '
properly. ,I
About six years ago the opportunity presented '
itself for him to buy an inexpensive lot in a small
lake subdivision and to secure building materials
nearby. He first drew several sketches in order to
decide which would make the most practical house
for his purpose. He then drew plans and itemized '
the necessary materials. In order to transport
some needed materials from the city he built a
trailer to be attached ‘to the rear of his car. With
the exception of large items, such as the buffet and
bathroom equipment, he gradually assembled the
materials he needed, took them out in his trailer,
and started to build. He devoted the Saturdays
and Sundays of one fall, Spring and summer to the l
erection of his home. His principal object was to
get the house sufficiently far along so that h
could live in it and then proceed with the finishing
at convenient times. After six years he is stil
finishing something or perhaps tearing out an
replacing a construction on which he had made an.

error.

RECREATION '

HOBBIES AS RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE 257

   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
 
  

This physician has two other hobbies—pho-
tography, which he started as a boy of thirteen,
and .mending broken articles of value no matter
what their material. As a result, whether in the
city or country, he has some type of physical
activity which he can turn to for relaxation.

Dr. “X” turns to lawn bowling for his’liobby.

’football, baseball, tennis, swimming, quoits, arch-
’ery, hunting, fishing, hockey,_ skating, golf and
boating. About twelve years ago he started to play
lawn bowling as a means of getting exercise at
times when other games were not available, for
with proper lighting this game can be played in
the evening. In a game of doubles, 21 ends, a
player walks about a mile, and stoops to the ground
I68 times—no little task. The exercise, however,
is not violent but effective. A friend whom he
introduced to the game reduced his waist line eight
inches the first summer.

It is exhilarating to accomplish a good shot, and
it develops self-control to deliver a proper bowl.
I he game is good mental and physical discipline
'n close competition. It has great possibilities for
ood fellowship and friendship, with time for in-
erchange of ideas.

obby is etching, told me that his first impetus to
ry etching came from seeing the electro of a scene
n the forum in Rome when President Wilson and
group of ofiicials visited it. He admired the
late and wanted to purchase it for framing, but
ound it was not for sale. He then experimented
vith copper plates and made a few etchings, one
f which was the description of the physician in an
arly edition of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales. An-
ther was copied from an old Latin Bible-"the
afer N aster.
Bird banding is the very interesting hobby of
another physician, who carried on his work in the
cart of a large city. He received his first inspira-
on from literature published by the Bureau of
iological Survey, U. S. Department of Agricul-
ire, Washington, D. C. Bird banding is done
under the auspices of this Bureau, and his station,
as far as he knows, is the only one in the heart of
a large city. In this fact lies much of the interest
in the results that he has obtained. He has ob-
served ninety—nine species of birds in his back-
yard, or flying overhead, and an even fifty varie-
ties have been trapped and banded. Many of these
species were photographed, as proof of correct
identification. One of his robins ranged to Galves-

:; AUGUST 1944

All his life he had been accustomed to exercise;'

The managing editor of a medical journal, whose .

ton, Texas, and others returned to him again in
succeeding years.

The final hobby to be mentioned is probably one
of the most inspiring that has ever come to my
attention. It is that of metalcraft, which an emi-
nent Chicago physician—and surgeon began when
he was sixty-eight years of age and is still continu-
ing at seventy—five. He has made a total of 450
exquisite pieces, using as a medium copper, silver,
and brass. Among them are a large circular tray,
with fluted edge and initial; two very beautiful
silent butlers; items for a lady’s breakfast tray,
such as combination coffee, creamer and sugar set,
and individual cigarette containers ; a turkey dress-
ing spoon, with silver inlaid on handle between
blackwood and snakewood ; two. silver vegetable
dishes; a copper stamp box; a brass letter opener;
numerous trays, large and small, some etched,
others fluted, and still others on stands. There are
also a number of monogrammed items, such as
match boxes, and ash trays. "

This hobby, I learned with much interest, was
quite unplanned, and was inspired by a casual visit
to a school of metalcraft where the surgeon ob-
served a number of amateurs busily engaged fash—
ioning beautiful pieces of artistic design out of
silver, pewter, brass and bronze with the aid of
competent instructors. Challenged by the director
of the school to try his hand at the craft, he made
the attempt, inspired by the earnestness and en—.
joyment shown by the students he was observing.

He well recalls his first “piece,” which, he said,
served as his aptitude test. It was a copper tray
six inches square, with a shallow, saucer-like cen-
ter. “It was mine, all mine, made under the
watchful guidance of the instructor. ‘Moons,’ the
earmarks of the novice, are abundantly in evidence.
I designed and cut out of pewter my wife’s initials
in block letters, and they decorate one corner of
the tray. This work, completed on my first day of
school, was as amazing as it was pleasing to me.
I still treasure it as the shining light and harbinger
of my hobby.”

Now that Dr. Monash, the physician I have been
telling you about, has made almost 500 articles and
knOWs what joy can be had from a hobby, he has
endowed a school of metalcraft at the Jewish Peo- I
ple’s Institute which will begin functioning im-
mediately after the war. Boys and girls of school
age who show, on test, an aptitude for this type of
work will be given, at this school, an opportunity
to make a career of metalcraft. Returning ser-

(Continued on page 275)

Out of Doors with lrvington Youth

HE TEEN AGE GROUP in 1r-
Tvington, New Jersey, is con-
centrating on out-of—door ac-
tivities for the summer months.

_/

When it became evident that block dancing and .

roller skating were first and second choices on the
list of preferred summer activities, the teen age
committee, composed of young people from junior
high schools and high schools, and its advisory
committee in cooperation with the Department of
Public Recreation made arrangements for the use
of a street adjacent to the Municipal Building.
The first party was held in May. In spite of the
fact that one scheduled party came on a rainy
night, the attendance has averaged 1,100 “tagged”
boys and girls. Party tags are sold for 10 cents.

Street lighting for the parties is augmented by
batteries of floodlights placed on the Municipal
Building by the Fire Department; dance records
have been loaned and donated; a public address
system and equipment for record playing have
been loaned. Hostesses are supplied by the groups
represented on the advisory committee. Conces—
sion privileges are given to local boy and girl
organizations. “Just for Fun” prizes donated by
merchants are awarded at
each party to the holders of
lucky tags. Provision for
first aid for scratches and
other« minor wounds is the
responsibility of the local
Red Cross.

Although the planning
and conduct of the parties
is largely the responsibility
of the teen age committee,
an enthusiastic advisory
committee of adults meets
with the teen—agers twice
each month to assist as re-
quested. A line spirit of
comradeship has been de-
veloped between the two
groups. On the advisory
committee are representa—
tives of parent-teacher as-
sociations, the Department
Of Public Safety, the

258

called "shadow."

By PHILIP LEBOUTILLIER

Superintendent of Recreation
lrvingt'onI New Jersey

- Organization to promote a recreation program for

in a certain Massachusetts city a leading
Episcopal church donated the use of its
parish house to the youngsters of the com-
munity. letting the youth themselves take
charge. The young people very soon had
placed out in front on the lawn of the very
dignified and beautiful church property a
large sign reading "Jive Junction"! After
a number of meetings of the board control-
ling policies' it was eventually decided to
let the name stand—and stand it does!

The first night the parish house was open.
900 boys and girls appeared, and there has
been ever since a very large use of the center.

The youth committee in charge decided
that each youth should be known as "sub-
stance." and should have an adult adviser
So there is as a result
frequent use of the phrase, "shadow and
substance." It is rather interesting to note
that the adult is classed as a shadow. In
truth. youth are taking over!

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   

Women’s Suburban Club, ser-
vice clubs, high school faculties,
and Boy and Girl Scouts.

Proceeds from the parties are
added to the indoor teen age center funds. Pub-
licity for dances is released through the distribu-
tion of “throw—aways” in schools and on play-
grounds, and through newspapers. A Fire Depart-
ment car manned by teen-agers visits various sec-
tions of the city to broadcast news of the next
party over a public address system.

The teen-agers held a one—day paper salvage
drive in May. Proceeds were given to the Red
Cross and netted that organization $1,044.

In all probability the summer program will in-
clude a teen age picnic and a community-wide
teen age activity which will be chieHy related to the

war effort.

 

Endwell, New York, a community of upwards
of 4,000 pe0ple, has formed the Endwell Youth

young peOple twelve years of age and over. The
Board of Directors is composed of seven individ-
uals elected for the purpose at a town meeting.
The group has sponsored a
community band; a boys’
hobby night, with classes in
radio, blueprint reading,
woodwork, leathercraft, and
recreation activities ; a hobby
night for girls, with work
011 projects for local hOSpi-
tals and the USO, lectures
on personal appearance ancif
fashions; and social activi—l'
ties such as coed party'
nights and dances. I
The community is smalt,
to .be sure, but it illustrates;
what can be accomplished
without the conveniences
and aids available in most
large cities. A little initiative,
plus a willing spirit, plus
good hard work are the
tools with which small—sized
communities work.

RECREATION

 

 

‘ A Summer Program at the Newark Museum

ANY PARENTS are con-
M fronted with the
' problem of what to
do with their children dur-
ing the summer months,
both because of the cur-
tailment in travel which is
limiting vacations and, in
the case of working parents, the lack of someone
to care for children during daytime hours.

In order to help meet this need for recreational
opportunities, the Newark, New Jersey, ~Museum is
extending the hours of its Junior Museum during
the summer months, and is opening its doors at IO
‘A. M. instead of noon as during the winter. The
activities are determined by the interests of the
children, which have been found to be largely in
the field of painting, modeling and nature study.
Therefore, on Monday mornings there are meet-
ings of the Nature Sketch Club, which allow an
opportunity for work out of doors ; on Tuesday, in
the afternoon, the Insect Club meets, and the chil-
dren are shown how to prepare insects for collec-
tions ; on Wednesday and Thursday afternoons the
Painting and the Modeling Clubs hold their meet-
ings, and on Friday
mornings come the ses-
sions of the Nature
Club, with occasional
field trips. All these ac—
tivities are supervised
by staff members.

In addition, the paint
and the clay workshops
are open fOr individual
work Mondays through
Fridays, both morning
and afternoon, and work
on individual projects
is possible in the nature
workshop on Wednes—
day mornings and after-
noons. Although the
Museum has had sum-
mer programs in other
years, none as varied
has been offered
heretofore. It is true

that the Board of Edu-

‘7‘!"-
3

AUGUST 1944

To residents of Newark. both young
and old: who are remaining in the
city during the summerI the Mu—
seum is offering unusual opportuni-
ties for recreation and enioyment

., _ _ ,___ . w   . _
. W 3 , a . - ‘4
y '- . \‘ \
. 3 ‘ ‘ ' ‘ < ‘: $ 3;“
u .a ‘u '.' ’ g l . ,1, \.
’ .
. ,1- .' .
-'\ - \. c
z . c
_, u - :
g m '
. i 1'8 a, '
is»: ~ '  ~- '- ‘
2:“: . , ~ + 'f 3
. ~ . .

 

Courtesy the Newark, N. 1., M useu m

cation offers summer pro-
grams in its vacation
schools. In the programs
offered by the Museum
there is no duplication of
effort.

The Board of Education
is cooperating by sending
word regarding the Museum’s activities to recrea—
tion schools and playgrounds, and to the schools
with expanded programs. Groups are being
brought by the Board of Education to the Mu-
seum each Tuesday afternoon to view the puppet
shows presented in the" garden. These are based
on Museum exhibits and are written and pro—
duced by children of the Junior Museum, who
have also made the scenery and the puppets. On
every Thursday there are gallery talks based on
Museum exhibits.

Other organizations have expressed interest in
these summer puppet shows; the Y.M.H.A. in
particular plans to send from 50 to 100 children to
them each week from what is known as their “stay-
at—home camp” comprising children from 5 to I 5
years old. Since the group has as its theme this
summer “World Ex-
ploration,” it is planned
to use the Museum’s
exhibitions of the Thea-
ters of War which have
interesting material on
China, India, and the
islands of the Paciflc—
plenty' to stimulate the
imagination of any child.

In order to bring
these activities to the
attention of as many
people as possible, direct
personal contact has
been made with repre—
sentatives of industrial
plants, local organiza-
tions, and housing proj—
ects, which have posted
notices. Talks have been
given in the schools to
assembled groups of

(Continued on page 275)

259

DEW.  POLK

 gun-gm f  ranger. n;

" 3.

*

o“, —-. m  -.-II- '

 —-momr cw alt-.-

 l ‘ \l

J.‘

"We Can Build It”

sey, decided it was ready

to go into recreation on a
year—round basis. However, the
budget for the recreation pro-
gram had been allocated before
a superintendent was em-
ployed, and since it did not
include an item for labor and
only a very small amount of
equipment was on hand, it meant that the avail-
able equipment would have to suffice.

This gave rise to a real problem, but we solved
it! We approached the Safety Bureau of the
Police Department through Chief of Police C. J.
Harte and Sergeant Henry Costy, head of the
Safety Bureau, on the rebuilding of a table tennis
table which had been resurrected from one of the
local lirehouses. The table had been stored for a
good many years and, judging from its appear-
ance, it was beyond hope. There were no legs, the
braces were about to drop off, and it was generally
in pretty sad condition. On Sergeant Costy’s
order, however, three members of the Safety
Bureau went to work on the dilapidated table. By

IN 1944 TEANECK, New Jer-

260

By RICHARD E. RODDA

"If you can put it on paper. we can
build it," was the challenge pui' +0
Mr. Rodda..who is Superinl'endenl' of
Recreation in Teaneck, New Jersey.
by the Safety Bureau of the Police
Department. And they proved beyond

doubt that if was no idle

using legs from confiscated pin
ball machines and through
some very cleverw carpentry,
well-placed paint and a bit of
masking tape, a practically new
table was produced for “The
Little Brown Jug,” the teen
age canteen maintained by the
Recreation Department.

That was only the begin-
ning! On learning the other needs of “The Little
Brown Jug,” the Safety Bureau constructed coat
racks, card checking boxes, suggestion boxes, and
bulletin boards, to mention only a few of the arti-
cles. And they couldn’t have looked better had
they been bought from one of New York’s exclu—
sive sporting goods stores! In addition to these,
the public address system of the Safety Bureau was
offered the Recreation Department for music for
the children.

All this was done in addition to the regular
work of the Safety Bureau which entails keeping
the traffic lights in working order, maintaining
signs and seeing that they are placed in the most

(Continued on page 279)

boast!

RECREATION

 

l
l

. Community Activities

in

War Relocation Centers in Arkansas

I-IE TEN WAR reloca-
Ttion centers quickly

constructed by the
Federal government in
remote areas of our coun—
try were made necessary
by the evacuation from
the Pacific Coast military
area and Hawaii, in the
spring and summer of
1942, of 110,000 Japa—
nese-Americans, two
thirds of whom were
American citizens born
in this country and educated, for the most part, in
American public schools. The one third who are
aliens were born in Japan and therefore could not
become citizens of this country. All of them have
been in the United States at least nineteen years,
many of them for forty years. It was found that
the great majority of these people could not im-
mediately find new occupations and homes on their
own initiative.

Some Background Information

A review of the cause and purpose of reloca-
tion centers, the character of the people residing in
them, and their living conditions would seem nec-
essary as the background of any report of their
community activities. Most of this is found in
publications of the WRA itself.

Jerome and Rohwer, Arkansas, are each a com—
munity of roughly 8,500 persons. Relocation cen-
ters are not municipalities in the normal sense.
Life in them is not much above the subsistence
level for anyone. A home in a relocation center
consists of 100 square feet per person in a tar-
paper covered barracks 100 feet long and 20 feet
wide, of simple frame construction, with army cots
and blankets and small heating stoves furnished,
but with no plumbing or cooking facilities. A bath,
laundry and toilet building is shared with upwards
of 250 people with like accommodations in the

AUGUST 1944

The War Relocation Authority (WRA). through
Edward B. Marks. Jr.. its Community Activities
Adviser. requested the National Recreation As-
sociation to have someone visit the Jerome and
Rohwer relocation centers in the Mississippi
Delta of Arkansas to observe and report upon
the recreation pattern developing there.

Corinne FondéI who for many years served as
Superintendent of Recreation in Houston. Texas.
was asked to accept the assignment. Her report
is based on brief visits to the Southern Area
representative of WRA at his headquarters at
Little Rock. and to the two relocation centers.

same block, as is the mess
hall where food, fur-
nished without cost, con—
forms to the rationing
program in effect for all
citizens of our country.

Free ordinary medical
care, but not special medi—
cal service, is available
to all evacuee residents,
as is education through
the high school level.
Student evacuees may
leave.the centers to begin
or continue higher education. The WRA provides
no financial aid for this higher education. Many
evacuees are graduates of American colleges. Vo-
cational training is a part of the regular school
program for children and of the employment pro-
gram for adults, to prepare for resettlement out-
side the centers and for replacement in the centers.
Adults may accept private employment on tem-
porary or indefinite leave. Resettlement of all
Japenese - Americans in normal communities
through private employment is the objective of the
WRA. There is no intent on the part of the
Federal government to remove any of their rights
or deprive them of opportunity of earning a living
and contributing to the nation’s economy.

There is opportunity for every able-bodied adult
to earn, while Within the center, from $12 per
month, as an apprentice, to $16 or $19 for a 44-
hour week in jobs requiring skills essential to
community operations—in the mess halls and hos-
pitals, on the farms and the internal police force,
in construction and road maintenance work, in
clerical and stenographic work, as members of
the community activities staff. There is a maxi.-
mum allowance of $3.75 per month for work
clothes for adults and for personal clothes for de-
pendents. Outside of a few consumer enterprises,
such as stores, canteens, barber shops and shoe
repair establishments, which pay patronage divi-

261

262 COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES IN WAR RELOCATION CENTERS

dends from their profits, opportunity for economic

gain is almost completely lacking.
A year ago these communities were undeveloped

red dust. All roads and walks are today red dust
and coarse gravel. There are no trees except in
some of the farm lands far removed from the bar-
racks. Government owned or leased farm lands
Operated by evacuee agricultural crews produce a
considerable share of the vegetables needed in the
mess halls. There are small family vegetable gar—
dens in plots of ground in front of barracks spaces.
Eggplant and celery are the favorite vegetables.

The residents of the relocation centers have
never been found guilty, either individually or col-
lectively, of any acts or intentions against the
security of the nation. Under our laws, aliens of
enemy nationality found guilty of such acts are
being confined in internment camps administered
not by WRA but by the Department of Justice.
Minor misdemeanors are handled within the center
by the project director or judicial commission
made up of evacuee residents. Major criminal
cases are turned over to outside courts. Marital
difficulties, juvenile delinquency, interfamily quar-
rels, all find encouragement within the single-room
apartment that contains married and unmarried,
young and old, stable and unstable, in undesired
and undesirable proximity. For the majority of
the evacuated people the environment of the cen—
ters—despite all efforts to make them livable—
remains subnormal and probably always will. The
exterior boundaries are guarded by military police,
who may be called into the centers in emergency.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is called as
the need arises. . . . A certain feeling of isolation
and confinement is almost inevitable.

The 110,000 evacuees living in relocation cen-
ters left behind them in their former locations on
the Pacific Coast an estimated total of $200,000,000
worth of real, commercial and personal property—
ranging from simple household appliances to ex-
tensive commercial and agricultural holdings.
Many disposed of their personal property in quick
sales at heavy financial loss. Some stored furnish-
ings and retained interest in holdings. The WRA
maintains an evacuee property office and an officer
at each center to assist evacuees in keeping their
commercial and agricultural properties in pro-
ductive use through lease or sale, in having house-
hold goods shipped to them, and in other property
problems.

Evacuee government at the centers roughly
parallels that found in small cities of similar size.

It does not substitute for the administration pro—
vided by the WRA project director and his staff,
but encourages residents to assume responsibility
for many phases of community management. Each
block has its block manager appointed by the di—
rector of the center. The block manager has an
office in space allotted him for this purpose in one
of the barracks in his block.

There is freedom of worship. Barracks space is
provided for Protestant, Catholic, and Buddhist
services alike. Ministers and priests may hold
center jobs—they are not paid for performance of
religious duties. Of the evacuees 42.5 per cent are
Buddhists, 42.5 per cent Protestant, and I 5 per
cent Catholic.

Many parents in the centers have sons in the
armed forces of our country. The American sol-
dier of Japanese parentage visits the relocation
center as his home when on furlough. Over 9,000
are in service, roughly one-half of whom are vol-
unteers. Three have been decorated for bravery.
One resident of one of the centers spent thirty-
three years in the Navy. One served seventeen
years in the Army, went through the first World
War, and was wounded in the Argonne.

The majority of the evacuee residents of the
centers have said in true patriotic spirit that they
would take and bear evacuation as their duty and
sacrifice for the cause of their country. They have
generously contributed to \Nar Bond sales and
Red Cross drives. Quotas were exceeded in all
relocation centers in the Red Cross drive.

Community Activities

The evening I arrived at Jerome I was taken on
a tour of block activities. Every block was hum-
ming with baseball, softball, basketball, free throw
contests, volley ball, table games, crafts, flower
and vegetable gardening, mass games and story-
telling. The men of the WRA personnel, includ-
ing the director of the center, the superintendent
of schools, and the community activities supervisor
were practicing for a coming game with a girls’
team of the center who they predicted would walk
away with the game. A happy group of USO girls
were on their way to the entrance to say good-bye
to those leaving for private employment. I wished
I might find in every block of my city in the
twilight hours such a picture developed by the
people themselves from nothing but a bare space
of ground!

Later, in this center, I visited the new library,
just moving into its complete barracks home after

RECREATION

 

COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES IN I/VAR RELOCATION CENTERS 263

having gotten off to a good start in a small bar-
racks space; the classes in painting and sculpture,
where lovely pictures and figures were being cre-
ated; the nursery schools for the little children;
the Toyland Library, the Y.W.C.A. and the USO.
Girls of the USO were busy prepar'mg for a Sat-
urday night dance for seventy-five to] a hundred
soldiers who were expected for the week end.
Here I obtained some lovely artificial corsages left
over from the Y.W.C.A. booth at the recent Coun-
try Fair where these flowers made by the girls
were sold to raise their contribution to the com—
munity activities fund. Another week-end activity
was to be the High School Prom (School was in
session, due to a late start.)

If we refer to the background upon which it
has been built, the remarkable program of com—
munity activities in the two centers I visited, their
excellent community organization and admirable
icommunity spirit are nothing short of remarkable.
It will be noted that the term “community activi-
ties” is used rather than “recreation.” Community
activities encompass all activities in which the com-
munity and any or all of its members may be in-
terested in their leisure time—educational, religi-
ous, character building, recreational.

The VVRA provides an open space of ground in
each block and several strategically located larger
spaces for development by the community activi-
ties staff and the people for neighborhood and
center-wide community activities. A barracks to
serve as an indoor facility is also provided in each
block. It has been found necessary, however, to
use the barracks for church, school or community
enterprises, so that they are not always available
for recreation. The larger outdoor play areas will
accommodate a baseball game or a large commu-
nity event such as a pageant or carnival and coun-
try fair. Neither of the centers has as yet an
indoor facility to accommodate center-wide events
of large nature. The outdoor spaces and barracks
provided must be developed through the ingenuity
and enterprises of the evacuees with the help of
the community activities staff.

A very limited amount of equipment and cer-
tain occasional services such as hauling and sound
system may be requisitioned from the WRA.
National organizations such as the Y. W. C. A.,
Y.M.C.A., Girl and Boy Scouts, and religious or-
ganizations, especially the Friends Society of the
Quakers, have contributed furnishings and gifts
of money, special equipment, books for the libra-
ries and Christmas presents. At both the centers

AUGUST 1944

the evacuees have set up a trust, with trustees, to
handle correlation of the activity programs, a
depository for receipts from public entertainments
and an equitable system of apportioning those re-
ceipts among the different activities for equipment
purchase and other expenses.

A nonevacuee employee of the WRA serves as
a member of the staff of the director of commu-
nity management assigned to the duties of super-
visor of community activities. Men of outstand-
ing preparation and high purpose hold the positions '
of directors of community management in these
two centers. Education, health, religion, and com—
munity activities' are among the services under
their direction. On the staff of the supervisor of
community activities are some thirty to fifty
evacuees discovered through surveys to find the
best, potential leadership. These leaders may be
block or district leaders, assistant supervisors or
supervisors of special activities. At Rohwer there
are supervisors of arts and crafts, music and
drama, religious activities, maintenance and plan-
ning, athletics, clubs and organizations, social
activities. Jerome has supervisors of athletics,
playgrounds, entertainment, music, dance, adult
activities, arts and crafts, Toyland Library, clubs
and organizations, publicity, art production.. (Clubs
and organizations include all private agency
groups such as Y.W., Y.M., and Scouts, which
must have volunteer leaders.) I "

In Jerome, the supervisor of publicity is an
evacuee who speaks both English and Japanese
Huently and who goes into each block announcing
coming events and interpreting important prac-
tices—a sort of news commentator. The block
manager and the Community Council made up of
legislative representatives elected through block
organization, are used as interest and talent finders
and to acquaint the residents with the programs
offered. The program is left as far as possible to
the people themselves and, to my mind, is function-
ing with outstanding success in this respect.

A young Japanese—American departmental super-
visor of community activities at Rohwer, born in
this country and intensely loyal though he is a
graduate of an academy at Kobe, Japan, where he
spent four years, presented me with a history of
the Rohwer community activities section which
he had prepared. It contains organization charts,
maps showing the organization plan by blocks and
districts, forms for plans and reports and descrip-
tion in as neat and complete form as I have ever
received from any recreation department in the

264 COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES IN WAR RELOCATION CENTERS

country. It is dedicated to the supervisor of com-
munity activities at Rohwer, which shows another
form of desirable loyalty.

From an enthusiastic staff of young Japanese-
American men and women in the office of the
supervisor of community activities at Jerome who
makes a line art of bringing out the best in others,
I learned of the Community Council; of the occa-
sions when teams from nearby army camps and
towns come for match games with the center teams ;
of the five Boy Scout troops; the very active P.T.A. ;
the forty independent clubs; of the recent trip of
the Boys’ Worker to a Y.M.C.A. conference, who
went on his own with leave given by the WRA,
but who had a part of his expenses paid by the
Y.M.C.A. after he got there and they saw his in—
terest; of the moving pictures shown as a com-
munity activities cooperative enterprise in a differ—
ent block building each night, the people bringing
their own chairs; of the many activities of the
schools and churches; of the enjoyment of the
children in educational films and animal cartoons,
and of the popularity of relay games with them;
of the garden shows, art exhibits and adult hobby
exhibits that are held; of the coming center-wide
entertainment to be given as a farewell to older
members of the center who were soon to be sent
back to Japan or to the segregation center at Tule
Lake, California.

A play was given me which had been written by
a Japanese—American girl for production in the
Christian Church, and of which the Buddhist
Church asked a repeat performance. It very dra-
matically presents the story of evacuation and the
“conglomeration” of feelings of high school girls
and boys, parents, farmers, students in universi-
ties and business people; then “entrance into a
new life in a new location,” the Relocation Center,
and iinally the plan of resettlement interpreted in
this wise: “We are all searching for an exit to
the outside world, but may this exit lead us to
wider horizons, higher ideals, more people, to be
of greater service and to rise nearer to God. . . .
We must get out of a mile square world. We can-
not confine ourselves through pity. We must move
beyond these gates. We must expand. \Ve have
found our exit . . . let’s get out!”

A Carnival and Country Fair

I found the Rohwer Center steeped in prepara-
tions for its two-night Carnival and Country Fair.
There was the enthusiastic young community ac-
tivities supervisor who thought nothing of getting
up at six in the morning and driving 125 miles to

Little Rock and back for needed supplies; the club
members who worked all day in the broiling sun in
such heat as I have never before experienced pre-
paring their booths of games, entertainment, con-
tests, refreshments, pop-corn and peanuts, and
chicken noodle suppers.

In the community activities oche supplies
were being sorted and distributed, banners lettered
and all of the many details necessary to the success
of a large undertaking were being handled ef-
ficiently by the evacuee staff with the supervisor
absent on the Little Rock mission. In community
activities barracks in the two blocks nearest the
carnival grounds there were exhibits —one of
K ebarmi, or flower arrangements, and of vegetable
arrangements being judged as a feature of the
Carnival; the other of wonderfully carved plaques
and other articles of wood. Cypress knees were
polished and slightly altered to make exquisite
flower and vegetable containers and in some cases
interesting stands and tables —all retaining their
natural shapes. Here I learned that the evacuees,
seeing the nearby cypress swamps, had slipped out
to get the knees to make articles for their barracks
homes, and that when some of them came to the
view of the Center personnel, arrangements were
made to take them in trucks for this commendable
enterprise. I was told by the director of commu-
nity management that there was some question in
the minds of tree experts as to whether the knee
was vital to the cypress tree. He said their experi-
ence there should certainly determine this con-
,clusively, if disastrously, because few cypress trees
still had their knees!

That night, to all appearances, the entire com-
munity turned out. At least everything that had
been intended to last for a two nights’ run was sold
out or used up, so that new supplies must be
sought for Saturday night. The entertainment on
the platform was prepared by the older generation
and was-in the nature of a talent night. Here I
heard what I learned was Nani War Bushi—a
chanting of folk tales and an orchestra of Japa-
nese instruments directed by a leader who had
charged $25 a lesson in California and who has at
the Center no facilities for orchestration so he
writes them from listening to records played on
the victrola.

Leadership

At Rohwer I found again a group of interesting
and interested young evacuees on the community
activities staff. There was the athletic director
who had been a jeweler and owned a chain of theaters

RECREATION

COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES IN WAR RELOCATION CENTERS 265

in his California home town and as a hobby had
served as a volunteer with the Recreation Depart—
ment to organize Japanese teams throughout the
county. At Rohwer he had.a staff, a corps of
volunteers and teams in all sports for all ages from
the cradle to the grave, which seemed to give him
the greatest possible satisfaction_._, He still corre-
sponded with and received encouragement from
his good friend Alonzo Stagg. While he had some

| sumo and judo—Japanese forms of wrestling—-
and some of the well—known jiujitsu, he stressed
American sports for both the patriotic and the very
practical reason that in going out for resettlement
the Japanese-Americans would find themselves
more acceptable in communities if they had some
skill in games common to Americans.

charge of clubs and organizations, who so loved
her Y.W.C.A. that when we arrived at the room
devoted to this activity she settled down on the
couch and opened up her heart and her philosophy
to me. The Y.W.C.A. had given her the experi-
ence of a conference in New Orleans and Gulfport
where she had made friendships that gave her the
faith to seek her fortune in a new environment.
But she said her parents, true to Japanese tradi-
tions, wanted to arrange a marriage for her before
she went out to accept employment, and marriage
opportunities were greater in the Relocation Cen—-
ter because all Japanese were together in such
close proximity there.” She, of American tradition,
wanted to await the coming of love and had greater
hope of what life could mean because of Relocation
Center experience and wider horizons that had
come with it. She said that by and large the sec-
ond generation of Japanese-Americans were about
her age and that postponement because of evacua-
tion for a year'or two of the new life that they
would normally be making for themselves at their
age was not too great a sacrifice, in view of the
sacrifices everyone must make for their country in
wartime, and of the wider opportunities that might
come. She took me into barracks homes and gar-
dens that were inconceivably lovely to me after
spending two nights in a bare barracks room. They
were homelike, full (but not too full) of beautiful

i There was the charming young woman guide in
I

furnishings, with artistic half-partitions and in two-

of them adorable babies for whom most suitable
and tasteful arrangements had been made.

In the gardens there were the loveliest morning
glories of the most unusual size and hues, and
other beautiful flowers, and little boys carefully
gathering the seed from the ripe blooms for an-

AUGUST 1944 .

other year. Bordering all gardens throughout the
two centers were miles and miles of portulaca in
full bloom. Old men were busy with irrigation. On
one small porch entrance there was a youth, a
member of the orchestra, practicing on his instru-
ment. We visited the well-established library, with
a large number of children as patrons, the Buddhist
Church and the Church of the Federated Christian
Churches where the children of the daily vacation.
Bible school were having their closing party. '

Activities of All Kinds

We saw a barracks full of looms—thirty of them
-—all being used by women and girls weaving rugs,
cloth for suits, table linen and other materials of
exquisite pattern, weave and fabric. I learned of
the dressmaking classes, with evacuee instructors,
where women and girls learn everything about
making a garment from drafting a pattern from a
picture in a fashion magazine to the finished gar-
ment. The community activities_supervisor called
my attention to the excellent fit of all garments
worn by the women and girls in the Center. I was
told of the evenings of folk and couple dancing
many groups enjoy; of the book review club where
the intelligentsia of the Center review a book a
week; of the discussion group much interested in
the subject of postwar planning, and of the Little
Theater with all of the branches of the theater and
a member who was the Japanese butler in a play
that had a long run on Broadway.

In Rohwer there are 275 Girl Scouts in nine
troops and three Brownie troOps, 275 Boy Scouts,
twelve Girl Reserve, and three Junior Girl Re-
serve groups, two High Y clubs, eighty-live inde~

. pendent clubs, and a Toy Lending Library with its

story hour every Saturday morning. The favorite
leisure-time occupation of the women is the making
of life-like artificial Howers. Everywhere I went——
in homes, churches, mess halls, offices, community
activity buildings—there was the inevitable cypress
knee holder with its artificial roses, gladioli, car-
nations, morning glories—as my guide said, “To
brighten things up until we could grow the real

iiowers.” -
This is the community life that has grown up

in the War Relocation Center in a year’s time—
made simple on the one hand, it is true, by the
isolation and unavoidable institutional character
of the Center, but on the other hand fraught with
difficulty not often experienced because it must be
built upon the background of the people suddenly
evacuated from their homes and thrust into a
pioneer environment.

266 O TTO M ALLER Y

Otto Mallery

Otto Mallery has long given distinguished
service to Philadelphia and to the nation

 

ON JUNE 12TH, OTTO T. MALLERY was re-
elected President of the Playground and
Recreation Association of Philadelphia, and began
his twentieth year in that office. Prior to 1925, he
was an officer and director of the Association for
.nineteen years. He is a charter member of the As-
sociation, which was organized in 1907—-thirty-
seven years ago. He played an important role in
the founding of the Association, working closely
with Dr. Martin G. Brumbaugh, then Superin-
tendent of Schools and later Governor of Penn—
sylvania.

The Association is one of the oldest active
private recreation agencies in America—the Na-
tional Recreation Association was founded six
months earlier in Washington. Otto Mallery has
been a director of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation for thirty-two years and is a member of its
Executive Committee. Mr. Mallery has always
been an active leader in the National Recreation
Congress gatherings.

In Philadelphia, when the citizens think of play-
grounds and recreation, they think of Otto Mal-
lery. His nearly forty years of devotion to the de—
velopment of the recreation movement has given

him the distinction of being the leading citizen in
this field. No other Philadelphia person has given
so much of his time, his energy, skill, and personal
wealth to assure the happiness of children and
youth. .«

In spite of his long record, Otto Mallery has
today the point of view and spirit of youth. He is
always looking forward, formulating plans for ex-
pansion of facilities, more efficient operation, and
consolidation of public recreation agencies.

Design for Fishing—Fun and Food

(Continued from page 236)

in the former rearing pond are bass for late sum-
mer fiycasting.

Hoene’s fishing log in 1942 covered plantings
of nearly I 5,000 fish, mostly rainbow and speckled
trout. Last year the feat was duplicated.

Although fishing is being restored as a commu-
nity enterprise for public benefit, the task is not _
completed, and Park Superintendent Hoene (he
has held that post since 1940) will hasten to tell
you it has not been a one-man job. Ben Gustafson,
Superintendent of the French River Hatchery, has
been the fishing expert in the supply and planting
operations. The Duluth Conservation Club, largest
in Minnesota, has contributed thousands of man-
hours in stream improvement and in clearing the
way for establishment of rearing ponds.

From the standpoint of municipal administra-
tion, “it’s all a part of better living and a better
city,” Hoene tells you. “We need the trees to pre-
vent erosion of the hillsides, to check the flow of
silt into the storm sewers under the impact of the
spring thaws and summer rains. The trees and
shrubs hold the soil on the banks of the streams
and at the same time provide shade for the trout
pools. Youngsters like to get out to fish just as
much as they want to take a dip in the old swim-
ming hole. Here, right at home, they can enjoy
wholesome recreation. That makes for healthier
children and citizens. Clean, outdoor fun also is
refiected in juvenile delinquency records. It’s all
just a simple pattern into which the parts fit easily.”

Hoene believes that any city can provide the
same pattern, limited only by the sources of water
and natural facilities.

Already he is looking to the future. Give him
the opportunity and Hoene will draw from a desk
drawer the blueprints for his postwar projects.
What has proved to be a boon in wartime will have

as much value, come peace and domestic progress
(Continued on page 274)

RECREATION

Youth's Recreation Plan for Philadelphia

B, THE UNDERSIG NED youth
Wfrom the public, private

and parochial junior and
senior high schools of Philadel-
phia, in assembly, April 25,
1944, do hereby present to the
citizens of this city our recrea-

tion plan for Philadelphia.

This plan is a summary of recommendations from
a series of conferences of representative students
in the schools, which were conducted by the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Philadel-

phia.

It is our sincere belief that if our recommenda-
tions are favorably considered and made a reality,
the temptations that lead to delinquency will be
greatly reduced.

We, of the teen age group, therefore, offer a
program that we think is good and will meet our
needs. We respectfully request that favorable
action be started at once, and we assure the citizens
of Philadelphia that they can count on our co-

I Operation in adopting and developing our Ten-
Point Program, as follows: °

I. That the City Government greatly expand the
number of recreation centers, adequately
lighting them for night use, and adjusting the
programs to the interests of youth with a
more “glamorous” appeal.

2. That all the schools of the city be opened for
evening recreation, and that youth groups be
given the opportunity to suggest the program
of activities and the methods to achieve an
informal atmosphere.

3. That such organizations as the Y’s, Boys’ and
Girls’ Clubs and other groups extend their
services by the establishment of branches
throughout the city, and that these agencies
adjust their programs to meet the needs of
youth.

4. That the churches of the city offer their fa—
cilities for youth social activities, open to all,
without regard to race, creed, or the lack of
religious affiliations.

AUGUST 1944

The Playground and Recreation As-
sociation of Philadelphia consulted
the youth of the city's junior and
senior high schools about recrea-
tional needs and future plans. At

the annual meeting of the Associa-
tion held the latter part of April.
recommendations were submitted.

5. That all recreation agen—
cies offer more organized sports,
and that other organizations
join the recreation agencies in
forming a city—wide movement
to expand materially the athletic
and sports facilities for team
competition.

6. That Teen-Age Canteens for youth be estab—

IO.

lished in existing agencies, and, in neighbor-
hoods without agencies, that the adults there
be requested to cooperate in developing Can‘-
teens in vacant prOperties or other suitable
places.

That the Fairmount Park Commission create
more parks in congested neighborhoods and
increase the facilities of recreation services
appealing to youth in the parks now operated,
such as: vacation and week—end camping;
hiking groups ; swimming pools; sports fields;
ice and roller skating.

That youth be encouraged to make greater
use of the cultural services of the city by ad—
justing admission fees, offering more pro-
grams that they can appreciate, and by form-
ing cultural clubs to be inspired and directed
by the cultural leaders of the city, as: Youth

Centers, Art Clubs, Youth Theaters, and
Forum Groups.

That commercial organizations offering amuse-
ments to the public be required to observe
strictly the laws regarding admission of
minors, especially to tap rooms, pool rooms,
dance halls, and burlesque shows. Further-
more, that petty politicians be stopped from
interfering with laws protecting youth, and
that movie managements insist on proper
conduct of its patrons during shows. Also,
that candy and drug stores used as hang-outs
be forced to eliminate gambling, the sale of
obscene literature, and like irregular prac-
thCS.

That all agencies and organizations, public
and private, offering recreation for youth be
requested to have youth representatives on

, their boards to serve as advisers.

I

267

lt’s Being Done in Nature Recreation

Capln Bill's Column of Nature—Grams

C ORN S . Ex-President Grover Cleveland set
aside by proclamation a small section of
public lands for national forests. The United
States Senate spent two days debating whether he
should be impeached for such action. Now nearly
one fourth of our forest land is in national forests.

“Baby Bears,” a true story of bear cubs for
small children. Translated from the Russian of
E. Charushin by Marguerita Rudolph. The Mac—

millan Company, New York. $1.

“Bird Watching,” by J. J. Hickey. Opens the
door to a fascinating experience. Oxford Uni-
versity Press, New York. 262 pp. $3.50.

Canning. “Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow,”
a free 16 mm. educational sound film on the can—
ning industry from the days of Appert. Time——
thirty minutes. Also “Meat and Romance,” on
how to buy, cook and carve meat and its food

values. Address Castle Distributors’ Corp., 30
Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20. "

Crystals. Dissolve ten cents worth of potassium
nitrate in a cup of hot water in a pint jar. Stir
until the nitrate will not dissolve any more. Hang

a string from a stick set across the top of the jar.
Look every day.

Fire. “The Science of Fire Fighting,” by John
J. McCarthy. 265 pp., 13 figs., $3.00. Norton Pub-
lishing Co., New York, 1943. Subtitled “For the

Citizen, the Professional, the Volunteer and the
Auxiliary.”

Fisheries. U. S. Department of the Interior.
Fish and Wildlife Service.

“Fisheries of North
America with Special Refer-
ence to the United States,”
by R. H. Fiedler. Chicago,
111., 1944. 13 pp. (Reprint,
Geographical Review, Vol.
30, No. 2, April 1940, pp.
201-214.) Single copies are
free as long as supply lasts.

Forest Fires. “Burning

an Empire,” by Stewart H. socie
Holbrook. The Macmillan

268

"Everyone needs the comfort and inspira-
tion of placid lakes and rippling streams.
of birds and animals carrying on a normal.
natural life' of peaceful landscapes and
open spaces. These are fundamental neces-
sities even in normal times. and in abnor-
mal times the need increases. It is our test, Six-page leaflet by»
maior task to expose every man, woman. and
child to an environment that will stimulate
happinessI well-being, mental and physical
fitness, and love of homeland and of the

ty we call democracy."——Ftancis A.
Cross, President. Minneapolis Park Board.

Company, New York. 229 pp. Not comfortable
reading, but it will help rub smoke out of your
eyes.

Garden C labs. The Texas Garden Clubs and
the Pan American Garden Clubs are planning their
ninth visit to Mexico.

“Herbs: Their Culture and Uses,” by Rosetta
E. Clarkson. Grow your own herbs! More than
one hundred recipes. The Macmillan Company,

New York. Illus. $2.75.

Hiking. “The Hiker’s Handbook,” by Douglas
Leechman. Norton Publishing Co., New York,
220 pp., illus., $2.50.

“ll/Iaternal Overprotection,” by David M. Levy. I
Columbia University Press, New York. $4.50.
Most successful technique consists of direct en-
vironmental change, as going to camp.

11! oarning Doves are game in the Southeastern 'I
states. The Fish and Wildlife Service is anxious
to learn all it can about the status of this bird
in order to formulate a sound management policy. l
The Service would be glad to know about its rela-
tive abundance, when nests are occupied, etc. You

can take an active part in this investigation.

“Plants and Flowers in the Home,” by Ken-
neth Post. Orange Judd Publishing Company, ,
Inc., New York. 198 pp., illus., $2.

“The Star Finder,” by Henry M. Neely. Atlas-
style book. Many charts and diagrams. Smith
and Durrell, Inc., New York, 1943. 62 pp. $2.75.

Victory Gardening.
“$6,000 'in Scholarships
for Farm Youths.” The
1944 handbook of the Na— -
tional Junior Vegetable
Growers’ Association Pro-
duction and Marketing Con-

Professor Grant B. Snyder,
NJV GA, Contest Commit- .
tee Chairman. Massachu-

setts State College,Amherst,
Massachusetts.

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

Courtesy Recreation C ommissz'on, Monroe, Michigan

 

' IN MONROE, Michi-
gan, Tony’s kite is the
thing these days! It’s
a twelve—foot affair

iade by Tony Ziegler for the youngsters’ entertain-

w ent. One of his most” popular tricks is floating

he kite at two hundred feet, fastening a dummy

Ind parachute to the kite rope. The parachute

opens, the dummy glides to the earth, and the kite

'sails on. Next on the agenda, declares Tony, is a

forty-foot dragon kite.

ony’s Kite Entertains
Youngsters

VVILKES-BARRE, Penn-
sylvania, has a very
active organization
known as the “Friends

A Club with No Dues
and No Meetings

of the Shut-Ins Club,” which was originally af-'

filiated with the Playground and Recreation Asso—
ciation of \Vyoming Valley but is now on its own.
The club has about 400 shut-in members and an
equal number of volunteer visitors, each of whom
, makes twelve visits a year. A post card is sent
each month by the visitors to keep officers of the
society informed about the shut—ins, and an occa—
sional tea is given for the visitors.

One of the practical services of the Club is the
loaning of wheel chairs of which the organization
now owns 180. It also offers for loan portable

AUGUST:1944

w More People at Play in

radios and typewriters. Other services include
occupational therapy, eye care (arranged and pro—
vided for by the state), home movies, and a Coun—
cil Book Club. There are over 48 Girl Scout
troops working for the Friends of the Shut-Ins
Club, which now is the project of the Wilkes—
Barre Quota Club.

ATTENDANCE during
the week ending April
15; 1944, at the 52
, recreation centers
maintained by the Los Angeles, California, De-
partment of Playground and Recreation ,totaled
167,941 visits, a 45 per cent increase over the
record of 115,309 for the corresponding week in
1943. Virtually every week in the current year
has exceeded in attendance the same period in
1943, according to a report.

Los Angeles

THE. YOUTH Commit-

tee of Civilian De-

fense and the Council
of Social Agencies of New Orleans, Louisiana,"
are developing a program of recreation for young
people in their homes. As the plans have been
made, these parties are to be simple and inex—
pensive with such refreshments as cookies and a
cup of chocolate. .

The program has the following objectives: (1)
to encourage parents to open their homes to
groups of their children’s friends in the neighbor-
hood for wholesome fun; (2) to plan for the use
of community halls, social halls of churches, school
buildings, or other facilities where neighborhood
gatherings can be organized at regular intervals
under the leadership of parents.

Home Recreation

JOHNSTOWN, Pennsyl—
vania, is proud of the
fact that with the com-
pletion of a live year
channel fiood prevention project by U. 8. Army
engineers the city is now flood free. To celebrate
the event, a committee of 400 citizens has launched
a six months’ observance which will serve as an
announcement to the outside world that Johns-
town, free from fear of Hoods, is now a good place
in which to live, work, and do business. A num—
ber of subcommittees are at work including the

, “Flood Free
Johnstown”

269

270 CHARLES M. COX

governmental committee, of which I. C.
Gruber, superintendent of recreation, is

co-chairman.

Juvenile Delinquency and the Police
-—-Evidence accumulates that police depart-
ments throughout the country are becom-
ing increasingly interested in the provision
of recreation as one method of preventing
juvenile delinquency.

The February 1944 issue of the Police
Chiefs’ N ews Letter gives a brief résumé
of the history of the National Recreation
Association and its functions, refers to the
publications on youth centers and says:

“Police ofhcials who are taking an active
role in community organization to prevent
juvenile delinquency may secure from the
National Recreation Association assist-
ance and helpful information on recreation

programs.”

Helping Rural Communities-—-The
Iowa State College employs a drama and
recreation specialist whose time is spent
in the field, meeting with groups of all kinds and
helping them with their recreation programs.
During 1943 forty institutes were held, largely in
the field of drama and recreation.

Community Fun Nights in San Francisco——
The Community Fun Nights in San Francisco, in-
augurated this spring by the Recreation Commis-
sion, are proving very successful. On the third of

the evenings held on May 25th, a May Program~

was presented by the junior group and a Memories
Program by the adult group. The center at which
this was held is located in the section of the city
where there are many mixed nationalities, and at—
tendance is made up of Negroes, Filipinos and
white citizens, both adults and children. All join
enthusiastically in the fun, and a real community
spirit is developing as an outgrowth of the Nights.

Community Forests—The forestry extension
worker of Nebraska is greatly interested in the
setting aside of woodland areas for rural pe0ple.
Recently he has conferred with town authorities
regarding the setting aside of areas for “commu-
nity forests,” usually so located that they will be
available for recreation where groups come to-
gether.

 

v .m mm... wama m...q§-.- g. ---*’-

Courtesy Greystone Studios, Inc.

 

Charles M. Cox, volunteer helper in the
National Recreation Association for more than
twenty years. who died on June I3I I944.

Brig. Gen. Theodore Roosevelt

(Continued from page 229)

father present. In giving support to the Associa-
tion he was carrying on his father’s interest as
well as his own. Many supporters are now of the
second generation.

Brig. Gen. Theodore Roosevelt believed deeply
in the principle of decentralization of government
—that the roots.of a strong recreation movement
should be in each locality and that particular at-
teiition should always be given to the home.

In his own family and in his own personal life
Brig. Gen. Theodore Roosevelt practiced what he
preached and carried the spirit of recreation and
good fun into all that he did. He was deeply con—
cerned to serve the generation in which he lived.
In his death the recreation movement has lost a
very real and understanding friend.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

RECREATION

YOU ASKED FOR IT! 271

You Asked for It!

Question: The director of a State Youth Au—
thority of a Pacific Coast state‘asks: What are
recent public recreation developments in western
cities designed to meet the current youth delin—
quency problems?

Answer: Of course you know as well as I do
that delinquency is as old as the human race but
it is true that the present world war, like the last
one, has accelerated the problem.

‘While recreation is not a cure—all for juvenile
delinquency, practical experience has demonstrated

that wholesome, well—planned and conducted rec—-

reation can assist vitally in the total effort. The
problem can only be worked out successfully by
the combined efforts of home, school, church and
community. The special teen service “juke box,
\ coke—snack bar” social recreation lounges can never
be more than a small part in the sum total of
needed service. i

There are five essential factors in establishing

and maintaining the special teen centers referred ,

to: (1) location; (2) physical layout and facilities
including the amount and type of floor space avail—
able and the furnishings covering facilities for
parties, dancing and social comradeship; (3) the
extent in which young people themselves are in—
volved in planning and conducting the center;
(4) the thoughtful understanding and skill of the
professional recreation leadership, and (5) finance
and general administration.

In this last category such centers will generally
be more successful if managed by the public recre—
ation service department as a part of their general
service.

I know you are familiar with the extent of de—
velopments under Miss Josephine Randall, Super—
intendent of Recreation, San Francisco. One ef—
fective center is the new civic recreation center for
youth in La Arcade Building in Santa Barbara
where the average daily attendance is close to two
hundred. Two very skillful women, employed by
the Recreation Department, cooperate with the
youth groups here in the conduct of this center.
The Sunday afternoon and evening programs are
entirely under the Youth Council.

Some of the special centers set up are meeting
with difficulties due to the failure to recognize
some of the things already evaluated as related to
location, furnishing of leadership, etc. i

There are fine high school age dances put on
under the joint auspices of the Recreation Divi—
sion of the Park Department, the schools, and the

AUGUST 1944

With the

ARMY

N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Products are on every fighting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany, on the war front as well‘ as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion.

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

Association of P.T.A.’s at Seattle; Playground
Youth Councils and a special club for newsboys at
Long Beach ; four new youth centers at San Diego,
and four community centers emphasizing boys’
clubs and girls’ clubs at Salt Lake City. At Oak-
land the Board of Education and the Recreation
Department have worked out a broad cooperative
attack on the “youth recreation problem.

Handicraft House PiOneers in

Recreation
(Continued from page 253)

ballroom dancing in relays. The children up to
grade 7 are making remarkable progress. The
unfortunate feature is that it is necessary to limit
the number attending to those who are members
of the arts and crafts groups. This eliminates a
great number of the children who have left school
early to take jobs and for whom our approach is
not sufficiently adult to be suitable. We earnestly
hope that there may later be a center for these
young people which will for the most part be self-
governmg.

The woodworking department is “terrific,” to

use the children’s own expression. Youngsters of
(Continued on page 273) '

What They Say About Recreation

' E BELIEVE our mission will be to spread the
W spirit of good will to all parts of the earth.

In such a program, recreation is indeed

significant, and a vital part of any peace docu—
ments yet to be written.”—From the Code of the

Recreation Council, Bay City, Texas.

“Appropriate recreation has long been a panacea
for the ills of man, and its importance has been
enhanced manyfold by current c0nditions.”—J.
Edgar Hoover.

“Cooperative effort can best be learned through
team sports, and therein may be found the
dynamics of democracy.”—N0rt0n Pritchett.

“Wider, richer, more meaningful kinds of lei-
sure—time activities are needed to meet the present
challenge, and above all,‘ the new challenge.”—

Dr. Philip L. Seman.

 

“It is during the leisure time of a people that
the creative reservoirs are tapped and the mosaic

pattern in which are woven art, music, literature, ,

and the humbler forms of skill expressions are
developed.”—Lancaster, Pa., Annual Report.

“Beauty is the smile on the earth’s face open to
all, and needs but the eye to see, the mood to
understand.”—John Galswortliy.

“Our people'would benefit greatly if for some
of the modern amusements that contribute little or
nothing to spiritual growth they would substitute
the real recreation that comes from choosing nat—
ural science as a hobby.”—Franlelin D. Roosevelt.

“Music has played its vital_part in wartime all
through history. During the first World War,
music did as much as anything else to keep our

country’s morale to its heartwarmineg high level.”
——l/Valt Disney.

 

“Sometimes one comes across a person with
whom living is a fine art; then one realizes what
a much more beautiful creation it is than books
and pictures.”-—A. C. Benson.

“Drama is the hunting ground of all the arts.”
—.lo_y Higgins.

272

“I have always heard culture defined as train—
ing resulting in gracious, kindly customs and good
manners; something that contributes to fine, clean,
decent living, whether it is knowledge of art, or
science, or music or literature.”—Dr. William

Flee/a.

. “It is only as we grow older that we realize that
happiness is a subtle thing—depending on 'satis—
fying work, right human relationships, and spiritual
maturity.” — From Leadership of Girl 5 cont

Troops. ”
“Children are more important than war. We!

 

 

talk about postwar planningpbut children are post-
war people. What happens to the child determines
what happens to the future.”—Mary Simlehovitch.

“Recreation has become so securely entrenched

‘in the habits and folkways of the people that it is

a dominating force affecting the whole range of
their activities.”—Jesse F. Steiner.

“Art and play fulfill the same function, provide
the same refreshment. Moreover, they are both
their own excuse for being. Each is done for its
own sake, not for an ulterior object.”—Richard

Cabot.

“Fun is recreation but recreation is more than .
fun. The aims of recreation “are to create anew :‘
and to refresh as well as to entertain.”—Harry R.

Wilson.

“Travel opens the mind; but so does print; and
print is the cheapest mind opener there is, and the
best.”—John Cotton Dana.

“Camping is democratic living through camper
participation, through developing a sense of re-
sponsibility for the success of camp, as well as)
through using its privileges.”-——From Camping
Today. I

“The personal rewards to the gardener are.
equally rich from food or flower gardens. And, of
course, gardening is fun—wone of the finest kinds
of recreation, combining as it does physical exer—
cise with a creative craft.”—From Community
Recreation.

RECREATION

HANDICRAFT HOUSE PIONEERS IN RECREATION 273

 

(Continued from page 271)
all ages with saws, hammers, and other tools are

making many articles. With a: large number of I L 1 1
children present and-only one“~leader, it is impos— I

sible to teach them much, but they are helping each a
other and having fun. Later we may be able to
give additional instruqtion to those who want to go
further.

Most of the activities of the Recreation Depart-
ment are concerned with children, but that does
not mean any lack of appreciation of the value of
recreation for adults. At Handicraft House we
have .some adult classes, chiefly in the craft room,
where instruction is being given older people three
afternoons a week and late in the evenings. This
room may also be used by adults whenever the
children are not there.

we have organized Handicraft House as much
‘as possible about the needs of our community and
the leadership available. When we looked for
leaders we found a number of people not available
for full—time work but who had had training and
were able to accommodate their time to our needs.
The center opens at 4:00 o’clock every day except

_ Saturday, when the program begins at 9 :00 A. M.
I’In the evening it is open from 7:00 until 10:00.
.The supervisor pf woodworking is on hand every
day; the other instructors divide the week into two
and a half day sessions. Since the emphasis is on
* guidance rather than formal teaching, the per-
[sonality of the leader is extremely important. ‘

The fact that juvenile delinquency figures in
Regina have dropped during the past year has

 

 

TODAY in France, with the tables turned—

with overwhelming air power and equipment
and hundreds of thousands of hard-bodied,
clear-headed, fully-trained and equipped Ameri-
can, Canadian and British fellows on our side,
Hitler is getting a good taste of what he dished
out to the unprepared British and French in the

made the citizens feel that the taxes they are pay- early Stages 0f the war' This is the “Pay'og'”
ing for recreation are well spent. The more than It is a great privilege for us to know that every-
.4,500 children Who registered With 118 at Handi- Where, in schools and colleges, in training
craft House in March were too busy and happy to camps and base camps, in America and over-
get into mischief. seas, Wilson Sports Equipment has played a

part in the physical training, relaxation and

Vicfory Gardens in Housing morale of our American fighters:
Deve|0pmen+s "

. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York
(Continued from page 232) and other leading cities.

that the vegetables and fruit canned by the resi—

dents may be exhibited. .
The victory garden program of the war housing
prdjects in the Wichita Area is typical of the in-

terest evinced by all the residents in their varied

\community activities. It provides conclusive proof S P O  S  U I P M E N T

that democracy works and that a community pro—
\
, Chicago
Goods Mfg.Co., Inc. \' Plant

gram will be successful when the individuals par-
ticipating have the freedom to invest their time, Wilsm Athmi‘
effort, and money in community activities that

are actually of their own making. IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT
AUGUST 1944 ’

 

274 MRS. KELLY’S DOORSTEP

Baseball Gets Mandate from
Army to Carry On

HE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS have been taken

from the message sent by Lieutenant General
Brehon Somervell, Chief of the Service of Supply,
to the New York Chapter of the Baseball Writers’
Association at their twenty—first annual dinner:

“I want to tell you how important a factor base—
ball is in the winning of the war. It has been said
that the successes of the British army can be traced
to the cricket fields of Eton, and I say that the
sandlots and big—league ball parks of America
have contributed their share to our military suc—
cess. Nearly seventy per cent of all major league
players at the time of Pearl Harbor are wearing
the uniform today and giving a splendid account
of themselves. _

“Besides, a million and a half kids from the
junior sandlot teams sponsored jointly by the
major leagues and the American Legion are in the
armed services. They are good soldiers. They
learned teamwork early. And it takes teamwork
to win a battle or a war. It also takes realism. We
never dare forget that a battle or a campaign can
be upset by a ninth inning rally. We dare take no
chances, we dare not slow down, we dare not
relax until the last man is out. . . .

“I call upon you to help our Army and Navy by
employing your skill and your knowledge in the
maintenance of morale both at home and among
our troops. It is in your power to encourage both
the workers and the lighters to give all they have
to achieve victory. I am grateful to you for what

you have done and for what I know you will do
in the future.”

 

Design for Fishing—Fun and Food

(Continued from page 266) a
on a larger scale. His plans call for construction

of deflectors in streams, expanded plantings of
willow cuttings and alders near channels in head-
waters of fishbearing creeks, digging of pools,
small dams and other improvements on nature.

The Contribution of Recreation

to Morale

(Continued from page 237 )
There is the incident of the Russian officers who

took time out during a lull in hostilities to take
part in a game of chess. Practically every Russian
soldier knows the moves of this intricate game,

Mrs. Kelly's Doorstep

MRS. IRENE KELLY of Pittsburgh got news the
other day that her son, Sgt. Charles Edward
Kelly, first winner of the Congressional Medal of
Honor in the Italian theater of war, is coming
home soon. 'A photograph published in this news-
paper showed Mrs. Kelly on her doorstep passing
the news along to some of her neighbors. They
were neighbors with good American faces, and one
could guess that their homes, and Mrs. Kelly’s
home, were spick and span inside. But Mrs.
Kelly’s doorstep abutted on an alley that was cer—
tainly not more than ten feet wide, and into which
the sun could certainly not penetrate very long in
any day. The surrounding walls were of un-
painted clapboards or dingy brick.

This housing produced Sergeant Kelly, who
must be healthy as well as brave. It produced six
other Kelly boys, all now in service. But will any-
one dare say that it is good enough for the Kellys?
Certainly there is a field right there, in that angle
of Pittsburgh, for some housing—subsidized by
the Federal, State or city government, if necessary
——that will provide Mrs. Kelly with a better door-
step, more sunlight and something better to look
at than a gray wall ten feet away.—From The
New York Times, April II, 1944.

and. over 50,000 entries were recently received for
a chess congress held in battered Moscow.

Then there was the picture we shall never forget .
of the pretty nurse playing a game of checkers with
a veteran of the North African campaign who had
been invalided home. It would have been impos-
sible to tell which was enjoying the battle more!

These instances could be multiplied a hundred-
fold in every branch of the service and every thea-
ter of the war. A desire for this form of recrea-
tion is equally strong in the civilian population.
Witness the newsreels of bomb shelters in war-
torn London where people passed many weary
hours playing draughts, the English term for
checkers, chess, and darts. Our own factory work—
ers in the many war plants throughout the nation
also enjoy these popular games as well as dancing,
playing of musical instruments, and other forms of
recreation. When the mind becomes fatigued and
the human body begins to wear down, an hour or
so of relaxation and play acts as a refresher which
enables us to return to our important duties with

renewed zest.
One line day-"we fervently hope in the not too

RECREATION

 

distant future———this war will be over, and victory
and peace will be ours. In the era that is to follow
all will have ample time to participate in recreation
and indulge in hobbies. We shall not abandon in
peace those games and sports which in wartime
contributed so much toward conditioning us for
battle and victory.

Hobbies as Recreation for

Older People

(Continued from page 257)
vicemen, jobless, disabled, or depressed, will find

at the workshop a precious vocation, rehabilitation,
and an absorbing new interest in life. And men
and women with leisure, who perhaps are retir-
ing from lifelong activity of one kind or another,
may discover in metalcraft a sustained interest
promising a happy use of their well-earned leisure.
l‘ Hobbies are the things we want to do———not what
someone else does for us. They are very personal

—something to be shared only with fellow en-
lthusiasts.

Let’s have a hobby!

A Boy . . . A Water Wheel. . .

l
| And a Dream!
'

(Continued from page 247)
original . . . the same wanting-to-find-out-for-
oneself that always makes for progress.

Today, this philosophy and the skills developed
through more than forty years of experience are
being applied to America's vital needs. From this
will arise new techniques to serve the nation even
better when Ford resumes the production of
sturdy, comfortable transportation, priced within
the reach of the greatest number. As Henry Ford
has said: “Our times are primitive. True progress

is yet to come.”——~Used by courtesy of the Ford
Motor Company.

“A Summer Program at the

Newark Museum
(Continued from page 259)

children to tell them about the Museum.

For adults who wish to model, carve, paint or
draw, there is the recreation workshop where, in
informal group meetings, talks, demonstrations,
and discussions are offered which provide a basis
for individual work. During the winter months
this workshop was very popular, and the people
who came were delighted to find that no previous
experience was necessary. For those who wish to

 

HOBBIES AS RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE 275

   ‘ Efrem MATS-PADS

7 BOXING RINGS

. TRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALL
BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT.. .

designed by “porn. made by exporka won-limo from
quality material- nod sold dlrod to schools, camps. 0M.
Ind-pendent, truly abduct;

" ,  r i “noun. sronrs EQUIPMENT counuv

     
   
    

365 HAIQUIT?‘ FORD DU LAC. WIS.

59".)  ifor Ne w (dialog

contribute their services in carrying on recrea-
tional and vocational programs under medical di-
rectors in hospitals, a craft series on puppetry is
planned. This is open to teachers and to laymen
interested in community programs for servicemen
and women. Hand puppets, shadow puppets, and
string puppets will be made from cardboard, papier-
maché, wood, and other materials.

Those with interests in science are having an
opportunity to attend the meetings entitled “Hunt-
ing without a Gun,” which covers such subjects
as “Plants Grow Everywhere,” and “Shells Make
a Beautiful Collection.” During August the series
will deal with “A New World—Through the Micro-
scope.” Both series are designed to familiarize the
layman with scientific methods of collecting and
identifying specimens, and to introduce the micro-
scope as a valuable and interesting source of in-
formation and discovery.

 

A Playground in the Jungle

(Continued from page 246)

men in the program have wiped out “boredom
fatigue,” increased their efficiency in the work of
the hospital, and have gone far to make them
forget their complaints. '

The centralizing of facilities has proved an ex-
cellent plan. If a ward technician working nights
decides to play badminton in the afternoon, all he
needs to do to find a partner is to glance in the day
room which is on the athletic field. Movies twice
a week, a series of weekly lectures, and an occa-
sional game with another outfit complete our
program.

Our center at the 14th Evacuation HoSpital has

proved that recreation facilities are possible any-
where.

A Nature Fair in Houston, Texas
(Continued from page 251)
tion of nature trails, museums, bulletin boards,
publications, experiments, observations, and bird
bending.
Houston’s Nature Guide School is part of the

   

276

RECREATION FOR NEGRO YOUTH

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the administration aspeCts of

their department and its correlation with other departments of city government. Special emphasis

‘ is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-

grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each
lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfacrory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wrote, "Trat/afally I cannot remember any
effort on my part which has paid off in dividends so qaz'wély.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
|3|3 East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois

expanding nature program of the Park and Recre-
ation Department. Although designed primarily
for the city’s playground directors, it is open to
Boy and Girl Scout leaders and to all interested in
learning more about the natural history of the
Houston region. The course will be introductory
in nature but will, it is hoped, lead to more inten-
sive study later.

There will be a three hour session once a week
from July 10 to August 28. The registration fee
will be $1.00, and members of the classes will be
asked to purchase, as a textbook, a copy of
Adventuring in Nature (price 60 cents), published
by the National Recreation Association.

New York's Handcraft Exhibit

(Continued from page 250)
were several miniature. scenes made of various

kinds of material. One depicted the jungle, the
land of the Eskimos and another described the
country near the Nile.

The senior group was represented by a large
number of articles for the home and generally
useful articles. In the hobby section, there was a
miniature battleground with barracks, tanks, jeeps,
guns, a railroad and other such articles. This

exhibit was six or eight feet long and several feet
wide.

Recreation for Negro Youth

(Continued from page 245)

time the mailing list had grown to 125 and a card
system for checking attendance was formed, with

names checked Off as people entered. This workl

was all done by the Council which met once a
week to plan entertainment, decorations, the sell-
ing of soft drinks, and the running of thej uke box
fOr each dance. '

When the third dance drew an attendance of
150 people, a waiting list was compiled. As boys
go into the service, or as students move, names
are taken from the waiting list and placed on the
mailing list.

The fourth affair was a Barn Dance with prizes
awarded to the best dressed couple and the best
dressed individual girl and boy. This time two
couples of Negro parents were asked to serve as
patrons and judges.

 

The Council feels that it offers something new
in the line of entertainment for each dance. F utureI
plans consist of a council of parents to sponsor the|
last dance of the season—a formal affair to be held,
at a later date. Attendance at these dances has‘
been well distributed with as many boys and girls
on the mailing list attending from the north side
as the south side.

RECREATION

 

San Francisco’s Parental

School

AN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, sends parents of
S delinquent children to Parental School—and
as it’s turned out, no one yet has “flunked” _a
course and failed to “graduate.”

When a child is found guilty of delinquency, the
judge puts the parents on probation and sentences
them to attend school for eight consecutive meet-
ings, held as evening classes in Galileo Evening
High School and directed by M. Jay Minkler,
. principal-of the Daniel Webster School.

The “students” are usually those parents who

' have been sentenced to attend by the judge of

I Juvenile Court, the Bureau of Family Relations

of the District Attorney’s office, the Police Court,
and other agencies. The pupils are taught their

l‘legal, social, and religious responsibilities by speak—
ers who are volunteers or have been assigned by
cooperating agencies. ’

The school’s curriculum includes classes in
health, mental hygiene, social services, religion,
. work, school counseling, recreation, and legal re-

sponsibility. During the period on recreation, a
member of the City Playground Department maps
a wholesome program and urges parents to see that
their children participate. When the required
courses are completed there are no final exams,
but the parents fill out a questionnaire telling what
the classes have done for them.

. The school, created on May 3, 1943, and de-
signed to combat juvenile delinquency in San
Francisco, recently gave “diplomas” to more than
200 “graduates” and not a single “repeater” en-
rolled in the course.

The results of this unique school have been very
' gratifying. Several husbands and wives have been

reconciled, children have been taken back from

- foster homes, and mothers of former delinquents
have written glowing letters of tribute. Letters of
inquiry have come from other cities all over the
country requesting further information on the pro-
gram so they can adapt San Francisco’s plan to
their own community. Some towns 'have already
set up similar programs of their own.

The whole idea behind this school is expressed in

a recent statement made by Mr. Minkler, “This

is putting new emphasis on an old law. Formerly,

contributing to the delinquency of a minor meant
committing some overt act, but the new idea is

that parents are responsible morally and spiritually
for that delinquency.”

AUGUST 1944

 

SAN .FRANCISCO’S PARENTAL SCHOOL 277

Bicycling as a Community Hobby

(Continued from page 234)

ports filed against them, they are notified to ap-
pear at the Bicycle Violator’s School held every
Saturday morning from IO :00 A. M. in the Police
Training School. If the same person receives a
fourth warning card, his license plate and regis-
tration certificate are suspended for ten days by
the Police Department. Upon the commission of
the fifth and subsequent offenses, juvenile violat-
ors are referred to the Juvenile Court authorities
for more drastic disciplinary action. An average
of fifty-two bicycle licenses are suspended monthly
by the Police Department.

Rutland, Vermont, a little over a year ago faced
a serious situation. 'Bicyclists showed a complete
disregard for signals of any kind and for safety
regulatiOns. With 1,700 bicycles to register and a
small police force, the problem of enforcing the
existing ordinance was impossible without com-
munity help.

The Vermont Congress of Parents and Teachers
came to the rescue. In March 1943, the safety
chairman of the Congress, after talking with the
Chief of Police and various community groups,
presented the problem to the Parent-Teacher Coun-
cil. On March 15th the. Council gave the execu-
tive committee power to do what it thought best
to arouse public interest.

On March 23rd, with the backing of the Mayor,
a public meeting was held at which the Motor
Vehicle Department showed two films, “On Two
Wheels” and “Singing Wheels.” After a discus-
sion a committee of three people was appointed to
formulate plans. The Superintendent of Schools
made out a schedule for the showing of the films
in every public and parochial school where facili-
ties permitted. At each school Chief of Police
Potter talked with the children and enlisted their
help in making Rutland a safe place in which to
ride a bicycle.

‘ The plan was adopted of organizing a Bicycle
Court and Bicycle Patrol to promote safe riding
and the observance of highway regulations. Six
pupils were chosen by the principal of each of the
public and parochial schools to serVe in the patrol.
Each group selected its own captain, and training
was given the patrol members by the Chief of
Police.

For judges on the Bicycle Court six outstanding
juniors at the Mount St. Joseph School and Rut-
land High School were selected for character and

leadership ability by the principals of each school.

278 A SCHOOL-COMMUNITY PAGE/INT

Instruction in prOper legal procedure was given
by Municipal Judge Spero. Two judges serve at a
time for one month. The term of office is one year,
and court is held every Saturday at 9 :00 o’clock.

The duties of these groups are to see that bi—
cycles are properly licensed and equipped and to
correct careless riding. If a warning is not suf-
ficient, flagrant violations are reported to the Police
Department and a summons is 'issued for the
violator to appear in Bicycle Court.

Patrol members are given pads of report slips.
These are collected by the captains each Thursday
and given to the Chief of Police or officer in
charge. A police officer then approaches the par—
ents 0f violators, and a warrant is issued ordering
the boy or girl to appear in the Bicycle Court.
Records are all filed with'the Chief of Police but
no names are given to the newspaper. Judge
Spero supplied the court with a list of penalties
and outlined the procedure for the judges to fol—
low. The judges have taken their responsibilities
very seriously and have shown remarkable tact
and understanding.

On January 31, 1944, the Rotary and Lions
Clubs entertained the Bicycle Court and Bicycle
Patrol at dinner in appreciation of their good
work. Another local club is providing new arm—
bands for the patrol.

Rutland is very happy over the success of its
plan and believes that the Bicycle Court and Patrol
may be reaching more riders than would bicycle
clubs. a

Community Center Serves Many Groups—-
Salem, Virginia, a community of 5,737, has pur-
chased a 16~acre estate which has been made into
a park. On the grounds surrounded by large trees
is an IS—room mansion which is used as a com-
nmunity center building, The purchase price of this
property, $20,000, was paid out of the city’s gen-
eral fund.

The building is used by practically all civic or-
ganizations and luncheon clubs, most of which have
' dinner meetings at the building and pay the town a
nominal rental charge ranging from $100 a yea1
for the clubs meeting weekly to $25 a year for
those holding monthly meetings. Other groups of
citizens using the facilities pay a nominal charge.
On the first fioor, in addition to the completely
equipped kitchen and dining room, are two large
reception rooms. In the basement are a large as-
sembly room and four other rooms used as perma-
nent headquarters by four Boy Scout troops.

A School—Community Pageant

PAGEANT OF AMERICAN patriotic songs by 182
boys and girls and adult musicians was pre—
sented for three nights in the auditorium of the
high school at Du Bois, Pennsylvania. The ad-
missions collected will be used for sending copies
of the monthly high school newspaper to 850 for—
mer pupils now in service.

The pageant was the outgrowth of a need felt
by music supervisors and administrators for find—
ing a means of continuing the deveIOpment of
musicians trained from the first grade rhythm band
through to the commencement quarter. These
young musicians experience a letdown after gradu-
ation on finding themselves with no musical group
to which they belong.

Five years ago the Du Bois schools started an
adult choir which became known as the Sym-
phonic Choir. Its concerts were so successful that
a forty—five piece symphony orchestra made up of
musicians from Du Bois and surrounding towns
was started, and a players' group of alumni and
other adults was organized. These groups put on
concerts and plays until the war curtailed their
activities.

The recent patriotic pageant brought together
the choirs of the senior and junior high schools,
the adult Symphonic Choir, and the school band
augmented with adult musicians. Together they
presented a school-community program made up
of the songs which have been sung in this country
in times of national stress from Revolutionary
days to the present, winding up with “This Is My
Country.” The school music supervisor wrote a
continuity which bound the songs together and
showed the growth of the American spirit. This
was read by an experienced radio announcer.

Each of the three choirs was trained separately
until a month before the performance, when they
were combined under one conductor. The band
rehearsed alone until the last two weeks. The per—
formance began with the massed choirs outside the
entrance to the auditorium singing the national
anthem with the band and the audience. Senior
high school and adult singers, dressed in black
gowns owned by the school, and junior high
school singers in white surplices created an im-
pressive effect.

Nearly every department of the senior high
school was represented in the production or its
preparation. Vocational instructors and pupils
built up the stage in tiers. The art department

RECREATION

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS _ 279

decorated the stage, and designed and made win-
dow posters. The draman club and its adviser
handled lights and stage arrangements. The com-
mercial department had charge of the sale of
tickets. Home rooms cooperated by having each
pupil carry his chair to the stage and take it back
in the morning after each rehearsal and perform-
ance—Taken from The Nation’s Schools, June

1944. _
"We Can Build It"

(Continued from page 260)

advantageous position, assigning and supervising
school guards to safeguard the school children
while crossing the streets, and performing many
other tasks which fall on the Bureau's broad
shoulders.

The amount of work that can be undertaken at
any one time at the Bureau’s busy workshop in

. ‘the basement of the Municipal building is limited,

though anyone seeing the results accomplished
would End this hard to believe. Setting up swing
frames and seesaw outfits, cutting‘ pipes to size
and threading them are only a small part of the
day’s work for members of the Safety Bureau. The
fact that they found time to repair doll carriages
for children at one of the parks may be reflected in
the name of one of the parks, unofficially known
as Costy Park in honor of Sergeant Costy, whose
work along with the efforts of his men is greatly
appreciated by patrons of this park.

The Bureau has adopted several parks as their
favorites, though any preference would be denied
were the question put up to the members, and they
are very proud of their development.

It is gratifying to note that Township Manager

,Paul A. Volcker and Police Chief Harte encour—
- age the men to take this active part in the develop-

ment of the recreation program. Without such
active cooperation of the Safety Bureau the chil-
dren of Teaneck would not have the benefit of the
sandboxes, box hockey boxes, climbing boards,
seesaw sets, basketball standards, utility boxes,
and many other pieces of equipment which will go
a long way toward making it possible for the citi-
zens of Teaneck to find the recreation they are
seeking in their own community.

It is small wonder that the 28,000 inhabitants
of this suburban community take their hats off to a
Police Department that is a friend of the people
as well as their protector, and a Safety Bureau
ready, willing, and able to build anything that the
Superintendent of Recreation can put on paper!

AUGUST 1944

  
 

 
 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles ot
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

    

MAGAZINES

Audubon Illagazine, May-June, 1944
On Choosing a Summer Camp, Dorothy E.‘Bliss

Beach and Pool, May 1944

Beach Accidents—Their Causes and How to Avoid
Them, C. P. L. Nricholls

Pool Problems, Verbatim Report of Subjects Dis-

cussed at the Convention of the National Associa-
tion of Amusement Parks

The Camping Magazine, May 1944
Camp Records and Record Keeping, A. Alice Drought
Conversation or Conservation, Kenneth A. Howland
Experiments in Inter-racial Camping, Harry Serotkin

Food Rationing Amendments for Camps

The Catholic Charities Review, May 1944

Delinquency: A Community Problem, Hon. G.
Howland Shaw

Childhood Eduréation, May 1944
“The More Deeply We Live,” Rena M. Erickson

The Living Wilderness, May 1944

The Future of National Forests and National Parks,
Lyle F. Watts and Newton B. Drury

The Nation’s Schools, June 1944

New Postwar Objectives for Physical Education, .
Elmer D. Mitchell

A Unique Athletic Unit, Oliver M. Hazen
PAMPHLETS

_ Leadership in Public Recreation, A playground manual

Recreation Division, City of Danville, 420 Municipal
Building, Danville, Virginia

Let’s Take Stock of Our Children

Program Service. Number 5, Reader’s Digest, Pleas-
antville, New York

Low Organized Games for the Playground

Wisconsin Recreation Association, 3841 West St.
Paul Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Parent-Teach er Manual, 1944

National Congress of Parents and Teachers, 600 S.
Michigan Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois

Simplified Camping, Kenneth W. Reynolds

Program Service, Boys’ Clubs of America, 381
Fourth Avenue, New York .

The Square and Its Uses, M. M. Romig

Published by Douglas Fir Plywood Association, 205
East 42nd Street, 'New York 17. Price 25 cents

Victory Gardens for Community, Home, School, 1943(

Compiled by Dr. Lili Heimers, Teaching Aids Ser-
vice of the Library, New Jersey State Teachers

College, Upper Montclair, New Jersey. Price 25
cents

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Firelight Entertainments

A Handbook of Campfire Programs. By Margaret
K. Soifer. Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue,
New York 17. Fleming H. Revell Company, 158 Fifth
Avenue, New York 10. $1.50.

HERE ARE SEVENTEEN colorful and picturesque enter-
tainments which will help to turn history into vivid,
exciting drama and create romance out of the common-
place. They grew out of many summer evenings Spent
around campfires in both children’s and adults’ camps and
are intended for the use of all who have the responsi-
bility of guiding groups in the presentation of informal
entertainments, whether indoors or out, on the ground
or on a stage, with or without a campfire. Group rather

than individual effort is predominant.

American Planning and Civic
Annual

Edited by Harlean James. American .Planning and Civic
Association, 901 Union Trust Building, Washington,

D. C. $3.00.

PARK AND RECREATION WORKERS will be particularly in-
terested in the material brought together on state and
national park developments in 1943. Although war con-
ditions, particularly travel restrictions, have definitely
affected civilian use of state and national parks, reports
included in the manual show that in many state and
national parks there has 1been a definite increase in use
because of the accessibility of the areas to servicemen.
The manual covers also the fields of housing, conserva-
tion, and postwar planning and public works programs.

Music in the City

By Max Kaplan, B. E., M. Mus. Music Department,
Pueblo Junior College, Pueblo, Colorado. $2.50.
MR. KA_PLAN, with the help of several of his students at
Pueblo Junior College, has collected a large amount
of detailed information about the musical resources of
Pueblo, Colorado. He has organized this material under
six headings: (1) Agencies of Musical Education, (2)
Agencies of Musical Circulation, (3) Agencies 0f Musi-
cal Production, (4) Agencies of Musical Consumption,
(5) Sociological Application in Musical Studies, (6) and
Conclusions and Recommendations.

The study not only collects most of the available local
facts about musical activities but attempts to analyze the
sociology in which the music functions. Although there
is very little subjective evaluation, the data provides a
basis for a number of suggestions for improvement of

music in Pueblo and uncovers many problems for re- 

search. The task which Mr. Kaplan undertook demon-
strates a highly commendable interest on his part in the
whole community and a desire to make music function
more effectively in the lives of all the people.

280

Let's Build

By Constance Homer Crocker. Houghton Mifilin Com-
pany, Boston. $1.50.

THIS BOOK TELLS CHILDREN the simplest way to make

toys and other articles. The diagrams and instructions
have been prepared in such a way that a seven or eight
year Old child can follow them himself with occasional
help from an adult.

The Dog as a City Pet

Education Department, The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 50 Madison Avenue,

New York 10. $.15.

BECAUSE OF THE INTEREST of children of elementary

and junior high school age in pets, animals occupy an
important place in the curriculum, especially that of the
elementary school. For more than two years the Ameri- |
can Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
has kept a record of the various inquiries received from
children and teachers. Approximately 80 per cent of
these concerned dogs. Some of the children’s. inquiries
came as the result of their study of the dog in school.
Many more came apparently because the children needed
or wanted to know something about their dogs.

To meet this need, the -Association has prepared a
mimeOgraphed Ibulletin presenting material for the use of l
teachers about dogs and their care. Children, too, will be
able to use the material to advantage. There are lists of
motion picture films on dogs and some helpful 'books and
pamphlets.

 

Ofiicers and Directors of the ,

National Recreation Association I
OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRv, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILIE H. HASKELL, Tuscon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS-T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
lVIRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

