' Not to Be Bought with Money

ONEY ALONE cannot buy Life for your children and mine. A certain amount is needed———people
do want skating ponds, hills for coasting and skiing, bathing beaches, baseball and softball nelds.
tennis courts, golf links. People do need baseballs, skates, athletic equipment, violins, pianosf. .

crafts material. And all this is important. However, it is surprising how much can be made out of

how little.

But—a boy would rather have a father who can make a whistle out of a willow branch,
who will swim with him, skate with him, tramp with him, guide him a little but not too much in
making things for himself———than all the material equipment money can buy.

Money is not the important thing in recreation, Whether it be federal, state or local, or
whether it be in your own bank or in your own pocket.

What is important in recreation is the seeing eye, the hearing ear, the hand with the touch,
the voice that lifts, the face that lights up, and even more the spirit of good fun that is within.

Now let us be honest———face facts. There are, in more cities than we care to admit, well~
equipped playgrounds with very few children on them, well-furnished recreation center clubrooms
for boys and girls, that are empty. Just so there are private homes with pianos and violins that are
seldom used by the young people, elaborate craft tools that rust away, barely touched by human
‘ hands. The trouble is not lack of money. And these homes, these playgrounds, these recreation .
centers are sometimes not Without leaders, even leaders with Ph.D. degrees.

On the other hand, here is a home always swarming with happy children at play; ,here is a
backyard much used summer and winter; here is a playground, there a recreation center always used
to capacity.

What is the difference? Whatever it is, it is not primarily money. Money alone, training at
college alone, cannot bring the kind of leadership that makes life rich, deep, satisfying.

Recreation and the recreation spirit is caught, not taught. One man walks to the train and
sees the beauty of the snow on the trees, hears_ the birds that are singing for him, is touched by the
mystery of the stars at night, observes the goodly proportions of the public buildings, catches the
story of the world about him, and the little girl that leaves her breakfast to walk with long steps
to the train with him enjost all that he enjoys, though few words are spoken, and she in turn
becomes a real and true leader in recreation. a leader in life, and others feel with her that life
is beautiful, that there is much to do that brings pleasure, and people like to be with her as they
like to be with her father, “because she thinks of things,” because “life with her is never dull.”

There's always a song, a little play, storytelling, a game, an athletic contest———you never can tell
what. '

. The cities of our country need thousands, millions like her, who grew up in a world that
has the recreation spirit, a world that is alive with good fun and happy activity.

The creation of this kind of spirit, this kind of climate, atmosphere in our homes, our

churches. our schools and among our people, is what gives our playgrounds, our recreation centers
an opportunity really to render their special service.

Already the recreation movement in America has land, buildings, facilities, valued at about
six million dollars. There is still need for money——quite a lot of it—for- freeing the right individ-
uals with gifts for recreation leadership. But the greatest task of the recreation movement in America
is not securing great amounts of federal money, of state money, or great gifts of private property for

recreation use in localities, helpful as such gifts are. The greatest need is not for more money or more
machinery of any kind.

The greatest need is to secure the spirit of recreation, the understanding of the possibilities of
daily living on the part of all our people, so that larger sums of money can in the future be Wisely
used, because the people themselves in all the relationships of life carry the spirit of abundant living
and demand the necessary facilities. And this cannot be bought with money.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

FEBRUARY I945

 

561

February

Courts.” Cal: orm'a Parent Teacher

RECREATION

 

J

They that go (town to the sea in ships,

That do business in great waters
—Psalm CV11.

 

The Launching of the “Joseph Lee"

grey, salt mist of a Northeasterly
storm, a new Liberty Ship was given a

ON NOVEMBER 27, 1944, under the

name ancient in New England maritime history: .

“Joseph Lee,” in honor of the man who for twenty—
seven years was President of the Ngtional Recrean
tion Association. Descendant of a long line of
hard—handed seafaring men, of shipowners and de—
signers, of prosperous India Merchants, a lover of
the Massachusetts coast and of the great ocean out
beyond, a man who lived a lifetime always within
range of the barnacle—Scented smell of the eaSt
wind, there was a deep appropriateness about the
name and about the storm that dampened the yards
of the New England Shipbuilding Corporation at
South Portland, Maine, that winter morning. For
Joseph Lee was of New England and its rigors,
of a line of those “that go down to the sea in ships,
that do business in great waters,” but the name
that he made for himself in New England reached
out beyond its borders, as the ship that has been
named for him will reach out to the farthest har—
bors of the far seas. '

It was at the suggestion of the National Recre—
ation Association that the United States Maritime
Commission chose the name “Joseph Lee,” and its
sponsorship had the close c00peration and support
of the Massachusetts Civic League, of which Mr.
Lee was the founder and president for many years.
The actual sponsor was Joseph Lee’s grand-
daughter, Juliet W'oodbury, daughter of his eldest
daughter, Margaret Lee Southard.

It was a stormy -day. a day of dampness and

FEBRUARY 1945

By MARY LEE

mist that beat across the shipyards from
the grey reaches of Casco Bay and the
vast spaces of the North Atlantic, a day of rain
and fog that dripped into the first early snowfall ‘of
November. The grey, steel prow of the new ship
rose high above the heads of the little group of
spectators, the black letters “Joseph Lee” along its
rail melting away into the swirling mist above
them. Sleet drizzled down onto the fur coats and
gay corsage bouquets of the party of people who
had come down from Boston, and onto a little
knot of shipyard workers—overalled men and
women in Gloucester fishermen’s caps— who
gathered at the railing of the East Area Construc-
tion Basin to watch while Joseph Lee’s grand—
daughter, the moisture clinging to her bright curls,
cracked a gaily-decked bottle of champagne across
the waterline of the steel prow, the bottle’s con—
tents hzzling out onto her bouquet of pink roses.
and onto cheeks still pinker. '

“\Vet day for a launching!” commented the
down-Easters. . . .

Yet there was an appropriateness about the New
England weather, for Joseph Lee was never one
to let his purposes be dampened by the weather.
Raised on the New England coast, the rigors of
its climate were of his bone and sinew, and those
who stood there knew that he would,have loved to
lower his head, pulling his hat well forward across
his forehead and hunching up his shoulders, and
forge ahead into the Nor’easter. Those who knew
him knew that he would have rejoiced in sailing,
as his grandfather, Henry Lee, sailed-wand even

563

564 THE LAUNCHING OF THE “JOSEPH LEE”

one of his uncles—out of Boston Harbor with
spreading canvas creaking to the east wind, bound
for Calcutta. . . . To stop a New Englander from
the achievement of his purposes takes more than
weather.

The little group at the railing of the basin that
bleak New England morning understood this. For
to everyone there the name and work of Joseph
Lee had special meaning. His family were there:
his widow, Mrs. Joseph Lee, who for twenty-five
years before her marriage, as his secretary, Marion
Snow, had acted as right-hand helper in his work
for recreation and who, under the affectionate
nickname “Snowie,” was “guide, philosopher and
friend” to all his children. His son was there,
Joseph Lee, former member of the Boston School
Committee, chief promoter of sailing-for—every-
body on the Charles River, backer of the bill which
has recently become a law creating the new Rec—
reation Board of Boston of which he is a member.
With him were Mrs. Lee, and their son, Joseph
Lee III, aged nine, for whom an expedition to a
ship launching seemed eSpecially ordained. __Mrs.
Harry C. Southard, mother of the sponsor was
there with Mr. Southard, who had ably piloted the
group down from Boston by train. Mrs. Southard’s
son, Thomas C. Woodbury, stalwart twin brother
of the ship’s sponsor, was on hand with his camera.
There, too, was Joseph Lee’s second daughter,
Miss Susan M. Lee, now actively carrying on his
ideals for recreation by her work as Third V ice-
President and Secretary of the Board of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. Here, too, was Miss
Amy W. Cabot, sister of Joseph Lee’s first wife,
Margaret Cabot Lee.

Also with the family party was Miss Mary Lee,
granddaughter of Joseph Lee’s uncle, the late
Colonel Francis L. Lee, last of the Lee family to
sail to Calcutta as a super-cargo, who, at his home
on Lake Champlain, so Joseph Lee loved to relate,
first initiated him into the mysteries of fishing, a
recreation that lasted him a lifetime. Here, too,
was Mrs. Robert G. Vickery, formerly Catharine
Thacher, for years close neighbor and friend of the
whole Lee family at their summer home at Cohas-
set, a fellow tautog fisherman in summer, and a
member of Joseph Lee’s skating-expeditions on
the Charles River in the winter.

Besides the family party were a number of those
associated with him in the recreation movement:
Miss Abbie Condit, Managing EdiLor of RECREA-
TION; Mrs. Eva Whiting White, member of the
Board of Directors of Community Recreation Ser-

vice of Boston, former Head Worker of Elizabeth -

Peabody House; Mrs. John R. McLane, a spon—
sor of the National Recreation Association, who

came down from Manchester, New Hampshire, -

where she is a member of the Board of the Y.W.
CA. and an active worker for recreation, and

Lieutenant Homer Wadsworth, U.S.N., now sta— -
tioned at Portland, Superintendent of Recreation, '

Pittsburgh, Pa, on leave of absence.

A pleasant air of liOSpitality was added by the
welcome of Maine recreation leaders: William 
Dougherty, Secretary—Engineer of the Park Com—
mission of Portland; William T. Kiley, Director of
Recreation of Portland, Mrs. Kiley and Mr. Kiley’s
mother; Granville Lee, former Director of Recre—
ation of Portland, a veteran of eighty—eight years
whose memory reached back to sailing ship days,
and Bernard Campbell, Director of Recreation for
South Portland, with Mrs. Campbell.

If the spirits of two former Joseph Lees, sea
captains and ship designers, of Stephen Higgin-
son, Patrick Tracy, Jonathan Jackson, George
Cabot, were hovering in the mists above the ship-
yard they may have been disappointed in this
modern launching. Here was none of the exciting
chOpping away of blocks, the sudden shudder of
movement, the slow slide down greased ways, the
great splash into the water that used to thrill
spectators at the launchings of their brigs and
brigantines at the shipyards of Newburyport and
Salem in the days before the Jefferson Embargo.
Modern launchings are not like that. The poetry
is gone. The “Joseph Lee” stood there, stock still,
propped up by a forest of iron pipes, while an
elderly Italian gathered up old lunch papers and
other scraps in a wheelbarrow on the dry bottom
of the basin below the launching party. Indeed,
she seemed no nearer to the water after the cham-
pagne bottle was cracked than she had before.
But officials of the shipyard assured the sponsors
that some time during the night, the water would
be let into the basin, and a tug would tow her out,
unromantically, into Portland Harbor.

Yet there was romance of a modern kind in the
mere fact of the great ship’s existence; the ship

'was completed in fifty-eight days from the laying

of its keel, the Company’s officials said. The
poetry of modern times is Speed.

After the launching, the company was shown to
the office of the New England Shipbuilding Cor-
poration’s President, Andrew B. Sides, by John
H. Baker, Secretary of the Corporation. Mr. Sides
made a cordial address of greeting, pointing out

RECREATION

THE LAUNCHING OF THE “JOSEPH LEE” 565-

that the “Joseph Lee” stood in the basin between
two other Liberty Ships nearing completion-——the
“Wendell Willkie” on the one hand, and the
“Alfred E. Smith” on the other, each named for a
liberal and forward-looking leader in his own field.
And here, again, those who knew Joseph Lee
smiled, wondering what witty wisecrack he would
have brought forth at his ship’s standing there,
independent, between the Democrat and the Re—
publican. as he had stood in life.

President Sides then presented Miss Wood-
bury with a large silver plate, engraved at its
center: “Presented to Miss Juliet Woodbury,
Sponsor S.S. ‘Joseph Lee,’ launched November
27, 1944—New England Shipbuilding Corpora-
tion—South Portland—Maine.” After the presen-
tation, he called on Joseph Lee’s son and namesake
to say a few words about his father. '

Mr. Lee spoke of his pleasure and that of his
family that this ship should bear a name which had
for many years before and after the American Revo-
lution been well known in American maritime his-
tory. He recalled that his father’s great-grand-
father, Joseph Lee, went to sea at the age of thir-
teen and later became a substantial’fship designer,
merchant, and owner of .
privateers in the Revolu—
tionary War, and that his
maternal grandfather,
Thomas Handasyd Per-
kins, had declined the posi-
tion of Secretary of the
Navy on the ground that
he was already owner and
commander of a larger fleet
than that of the United
States.

Joseph Lee, his son
pointed out, would have
been the last person in the
world to want to have a
roomful of people sit and
talk about him. And this,
not because he was not in-

-terested in good talk always,
but because of his strong
belief in getting the job
done. He would have taken
delight, his son believed, in
this great ,ship as a task
and cause engrossing the
full energies of its builders.
And yet, in the joint effort

FEBRUARY 1945

of many individuals in building this ship, he might,
too, have seen one of the dangers of modern civili-
zation: the danger that in the course of this crea-
tiveness, the individual workers might succumb to
a mechanical routine to such an extent that they
became mere cogs in a great machine, so that life:
might go by them without their having lived.

This, Mr. Lee emphasized, was his father’s fun-
damental belief: that causes of unrest were not’
economic but spiritual. Men were too often seeing
life pass away without ever having lived—facing
the prospect of carrying their ideals and aspira-
tions unfulfilled and unspoken to the grave. To,
meet this problem, Joseph Lee’s answer was recre-
ation. The recreation movement he conceived as
a means of putting the theme of rounded lives back
into modern, mechanized existence, of giving peo—
ple a chance, that a man’s life might not be only a
fragment, but a rounded thing.

In this belief of Joseph Lee, his son added, the
Lee family were to give to the new “Joseph Lee”

Juliet Woodbury, Ship's Sponsor, her aunt,
Susan Lee, Third Vice-President, National
Recreation Association, and Joseph Lee, Ill

 

566

a ship’s library, so that her crew of forty-eight
men, the twenty-six members of her Navy corn-
plement, and her ofiicers might have the oppor—
tunity of refreshing themselves by reading, of keep-
ing themselves from becoming individually lost in
the great machine of modern warfare.

Mr. Lee thanked the ofiicials of the New Eng-
land Shipbuilding Corporation for the efficiency
and friendliness of their hospitality, and invited all
who were present to be guests of the Lee family
for luncheon at the Lafayette Hotel in Portland.
50, after the flashing of many photographs, and
the surrender of their special passes, the party
once more climbed into the Company's fleet of
beach wagons and were piloted by their efhcient
women drivers to the hotel, where appetites made
keen by the New England weather were satisfied
as only State of Maine cooks know how to satisfy
them.

The ship “Joseph Lee” has, since its launching,
been delivered to its operators, Messrs. Smith and
Johnson of 60 Beaver Street,“ New York City, and
the ship's library, its volumes chosen with care by
members of the Lee family, with the assistance of
Lee C. Brown, Librarian of the American Merchant
Marine Association, was shipped to Portland on
December 16, 1944, and has been acknowledged
by the Ship’s Master, Captain K. Langfelt. and
by the Commander of the Armed Guard, Lieu-
tenant W. R. Kendall.

The National Recreation Association contributed
to the library a collection of books and pamphlets,
among them the memorial number of RECREATION
of December, 1937, with its photographs, and
sketches of Mr. Lee’s life and work by friends and
co-workers. The Association also sent the ship
a photograph of Mr. Lee receiving the Distin-
guished Service Medal for his services as Presi-
dent of War Camp Community Service during the
first World War. A bound volume of many of
Mr. Lee’s shorter writings, brought together by
Miss Katharine Lyford, was contributed by the
Massachusetts Civic League.

With the collection went the following letter
from Mrs. Lee:

To THE OFFICERS AND CREW or THE 8.8. “JOSEPH LEE,”

New England Shipbuilding Corporation,
South Portland, Maine.

The members of Joseph Lee’s family are sending a col—
lection of books as a gift to the ship, and hope that the

ofiicers and men will enjoy reading them as we have
enjoyed selecting them.

The National Recreation Association, of which Mr.

THE LAUNCHING OF THE “JOSEPH LEE”

Lee was President, has also sent some recreation books
and pamphlets.

The Massachusest Civic League, of which Mr. Lee
was President and founder, is having a collection of
Mr. Lee’s smaller writings and pamphlets—bound in a
volume and sent to the ship.

We all enjoyed more than I can tell you the thrilling
experience of taking part in the christening of the “Joseph
Lee" and the courtesy and friendliness of the officers of
the shipbuilding company. It was a day to be remem—
bered always.

I only wish we could follow the ship as she sails out
of Portland Harbor and on to whatever her place in
history may be. Perhaps some of you will tell us some
day.

Yours very sincerely,

MARION S. LEI-3,

Dec. 18, 1944. (Mrs. Joseph Lee. Senior.)

To which the Master of the “Joseph Lee” re-
plied as follows: '

2 January 1945
MRS. JOSEPH (MARION 8.) LEE, SR.
c/o Miss SUSAN M. LEE,
90 Macdougal Street,
New York City 12.

Dear Friends :

The Master, ofiicers and crew of this good ship recently
received your kind letters acquainting all of your gener-
ous gifts and interest. The portrait and some of the
books have already arrived and will accompany us on our
first voyage. They will be 9 constant reminder to those
who use them daily of your generosity.

Already we have observed the behavior of the “Joseph
Lee” while at sea during coastwise voyage and can assure

you that the ship will do its part to bring to a successful
conclusion this war.

We are happy to learn of the life and work of the man
for whom the vessel was christened. It adds materially to
our interest in her and our determination to make her and
keep her a good ship. It is a most appropriate gesture for
the Maritime Commission to name these vessels in honor
of those outstanding citizens who have contributed so

much to the development of our national culture and.

greatness. It is our genuine hope that this ship will carry
Joseph Lee’s name with honor and success.

It will be a pleasure at some future date to relate to

you, as you suggest, the chronicle of her first voyage l_

should the opportunity and interests of security permit.
We shall welcome your continued interest.

With kindest personal regards, we remain
Sincerely yours,
W. R. KENDALL,
Lieutenant USNR,
Armed Guard Commander.

K. LA NGFELT,
Master.

And so the “Joseph Lee” plies forth, across the
oceans of the world, to “do its part to bring to a
successful conclusion this war.”

RECREATION

Their Entrances and Their Exits

we.er YEARS and more ago a group of Camp
Fire Girls were at work -on a play. They
were rehearsing seriously and conscientiously
each Saturday afternoon for a production of “The
Princess and the Fairy Tale.” One of the high
points of the rehearsals was the chase of a huge
dragon around a' fountain by a very young lady.
When the play was produced this scene “laid ’em
in the aisles.” The audience, “with laughter hold-
ing both its sides,” forgot for the moment to be
amazed at what they saw, forgot that the little
dragon-chaser was blind. So sure-footed had she
been, so completely “in character,” so faultless in
iller senseof direction, that she and her sightless
companions had proved to a disbelieving wOrld
that the blind can make a theater for themselves.
“The Princess and the Fairy Tale” was an end
and a beginning. It was the end of an experiment,
the beginning of an era of acting at the Lighthouse.
The experiment had come about because the
founder of the Lighthouse believed that her blind
friends would gain, as sighted people gain, in poise,
in ease, in freedom of movement, in self-realization
and greater understanding of themselves and others
from a first-hand knowledge of drama. In realiz-
ing this belief she was aided and abetted by the

  
     

o
. - .
a i}-
' 95'.“

.c
v;- 4
i x ’ c a
J . a“ ’f “'4. “r .
- A , s a . w
G v
I

 ‘~

'1 ' I I I ‘
gt :lilt .. v
.t “I! i I'
t no I u -

', u IIC’

I It. I’ll.

£ $ I § 1 . C C I n ‘-

 

FEBRUARY 1945

Courtesy New York Association for the Blind

 

This story is based on material in an
attractive booklet by Ruth Askenas en-
titled, The Lighthouse Players Present,
which has been issued by the New York
Association for the Blind with head-
quarters at lll East 59th Street, New
York 22. New York. It is the story of the
little theater company which has been

presenting plays since I923.

 

Director of Women’s Recreation at the - Light-
house, and by that group of youngsters who were
eager to put her beliefs to the test. Everybody con-
cerned felt that dancing should be an integral part
of the theater, so the first step in the development
of a dramatic program were classes in dancing in-
cluding the ballet. Enthusiasm ran so high for the
whole project that a director was brought in early
in the planning so that dramatics would not need
to suffer in competition for the time of a leader
with other parts of the over-all recreation schedule
at the Lighthouse.

Three of those Camp Fire Girls who played to-
gether in “The Princess and the Fairy Tale” are
i still acting to-
gether —- the
pride and the
backbone of the
Lighthouse
Players. Many
of the original
group have
dropped away
for one reason ‘
or another, but
others have
ta k e n t h e i r
places. In the
years of their
playing they
have presented
eighty- seven
one-act and
t w e l v e f u 11
length plays.
They have writ-

S67

568 . THEIR ENTRANCES AND THEIR EXITS

ten plays of
their own.They
have partici-
pated in the
Little Theater
Tournament for
the Belasco
Cup. They have
presented their
plays at Broad-
way’s Booth
Theatre and
f o r m a n y
groups other
than their own.
T h e y h a v e
financed them-
selves and have
added neces-
sary equipment to their own theater. They have
been praised by critics. And they have proven
that blindness is not, in itself, a handicap to an
actor. ,

Fingers sensitive to braille, strips of carpeting
and rubber matting, and seeing-eye dogs have
played their part in this drama of dramatics. The
Players usually try to find a script that offers them
six women’s parts and a minimum of men’s parts.
(The group “imports” the men from sighted folk
as guest actors)“. In studying their lines they use
braille sides. The rehearsal period takes longer for
them because they must learn the set and the posi—
tion of the furnishings, the prOperties, and the
other actors on it. For some time they used strips
of carpeting or rubber matting (which was less
conspicuous) to guide them about the stage. Now
they feel, that this is no longer necessary.

Bina and Sappho take
more or less active parts in
the rehearsals. Sappho ob-
jected with “dogged” devo-
tion and canine volubility
when his mistress, playing
a part which “called for a
stage brawl, was struck by
another actress! Once the
show begins, however, the
dogs drop out of the picture
to wait for the final curtain
somewhere in the rear of the
theater.

The actors are all leisure-
time theater people. Their

 

"The study of dramatics trains both mind
and body, and this makes it an ideal form
of recreation for any person—sighted or
blind. The sighted, howeverI learn through
the visual sense. and by imitation. The
blind must be taught to visualize a stage
set and fit the action of the play accord-
ingly. It would therefore be a definite help
to blind people everywhere if dramatics
were taught early in the schools. During
the impressionable age the students could
learn ease and freedom of movement. My
plea is for more dramatics f6r blind chil-
dren. with dancing emphasized to give grace
to their movements."-—-Ratb Askenas.

 

courtesy 1V cm 1’01): Assacmtm [or the Blind

The I'Cradle Song" was one of the many plays
effectiver produced by the Lighthouse Players

days are spent—like other people’s—in getting a
living. Their occupations vary from work with the
blind to work for the United States government.
Their lines are learned, their “business” rehearsed,
in their off hours. They like all types of plays and,
like sighted actresses, they vary in their reactions
to playing. The time it takes to learn lines, their
inhibitions, the amount of stage fright they are
plagued with, varies with the individual.

The Lighthouse Players have had five directors
since they have been playing together as a group.
The comments of these women are illuminating.
The director’s task is some—
what more complicated than
it is with people who are
not blind because she must
see to it that the audience is
never more. aware of the
actors’ handicap than it is
of the play they are present-
ing. The director, therefore.
must train her actors to.do
those things which the
sighted do automatically and
the blind can get along with—
out. As an example, a per-
son with sight always looks

(Continued on. page 611)
RECREATION

A
“ Brave New World"

By R. G. G. BOUSFIELD

ACES HAVE A STRANGE, new fascination for me.
In trains I study highlights on foreheads,
noses, cheeks; the shadows of eyes, chins,
hair. How would that old gentleman look on can-
vas? Could paint catch the almost tangible refrac-
tions of light from the unusual planes of that girl’s
face? The landscape bordering the train tracks
that carry me each morning along the Hudson has
come into new focusf-I watch my fellow commut-
‘ers, faces buried in their papers, unaware of the
early sunlight casting its reflected glory over the
snow of the Palisades, or the autumn trees burn-
ing red and gold in reckless glory. Factories, docks,
breakers, a tenement roof against the sunset, a
tugboat, trees, Fifth Avenue’s perspectives, move
before eyes re-created by new vision.
I have learned to paint. And learning to paint,
I have learned to see. All the harmony of color
and shape which makes our world beautiful—all
the movement and excitement of line and mass-—
have been revealed to me because I have been
cured of an inner blindness. 

Painting opened a new world. It forced me to

A still life

 

FEBRUARY 1945

 

The author's first picture

see things I had never seen before. A landscape
still creates a general impression of hills and trees
and sky. But now I see, too, the subtle gradations
of color from foreground to background, the
quality of cloud shadows on mountain sides. I
live in a new world.

My great discovery, like so many others in so
many lives, came about by accident. I had reached
middle age with no special interest in art. All my
time had been devoted to keeping a suburban home,
to feeding and clothing four growing .children.
Then, one day, by the merest chance ‘my eye was
caught by pictures in a store window. I stopped
idly and looked at them. Most of those paintings
were surrealist creations. To me they were very
bad, utterly meaningless. even revolting. I felt that
any normal person could do a better job.

During the next few days that thought per-
sisted. Somehow “any normal person” impercepti-
bly becamei “I”—I could make a better picture
than those in the window. I could make a picture
that would better please the average eye, convey
more to the average mind. I was afraid of my
family’s skepticism—I might just as well have
announced my intention of conducting the Phila-
delphia Orchestral But the thought persisted.
Gradually it resolved itself into action.

I had an old photograph of a buoy, taken on a
summer vacation. The ripples and reflections had
always interested me. One night I took another
look at it. I was sure it would make a good paint-
ing. Next day found me in earnest conversation

569

570 A “BRAVE NEW WORLD”

with the proprietor of an art store. I told him I
wanted to paint, frankly expressed my inexperi-
ence. I came away with the minimum necessities

for going to work!

I plunged! I worked all week end. I invented
colors, methods, techniques, but somehow I painted
a picture of that buoy. One of my friends said to
me later that 'I ought to have stopped there! The
picture has many faults, but it will always remain
a treasured possession. It was my initiation into
art—the start of my great adventure. Faulty or
not, I had 'done it and it led me on and on.

I had much to learn. Each successive attempt
disclosed more technical difficulties. I didn’t rea-
lize, for instance, that distant objects must be
colder and lighter, or that trees and rocks didn’t
have to stay where nature put them, but could be
rearranged to suit my composition. I realized, too,
that before I could paint as I wanted to paint I
would have to learn to draw.

An elementary class in freehand drawing solved
that problem. At first the class was irksome. But
I found that you don’t have to be an accomplished
artist to do interesting, creative work. Soon my
whole week was revolving about the sessions of
that drawing class.

My painting wasn’t all one, long, happy success
story. There were many disappointments. One
dull winter morning I watched the sea gulls—-
flashes of white and gray against the misty sky and
the dark, mirror water. For one moment one of
the flight poised, almost motionless, a foot or two
above the surface. There were two of him—one
hanging in the air, the other perfectly mirrored in
reverse. In that split second before the bird
dropped upon his prey every detail—blue-gray
body, white wings outstretched, yellow legs —
focussed itself clearly and indelibly upon my mind.
I wanted to paint the picture. I struggled to paint
it. I went to a museum and sketched stuffed gulls,
studied the anatomy of their wings. I sought out
photographs of gulls in flight. I drew and I painted,
but all in vain! I could not convey anything of the

spirit and grace and beauty of the image and its
reflection.

Despite such disappointments, confidence grew
as I learned to handle my medium with freedom
and directness. Friends began to express interest

and approval. Even my children—occasionally—
dropped a word of appreciation!

Why Not You, Too?

Why don’t you try to paint? ’Buy a canvas
mounted on cardboard, a few assorted brushes,
half a dozen tubes of paint, some oil and turpen-
tine, a palette and a palette knife. They may cost
three or four dollars —-—not too much to gamble
when the possible gains are so great. And if your
first production does not seem worth handing down
to posterity, paint your next picture right over the
first one. The process may be continued indefinitely
until you produce something worth keeping. It’s
the fun of painting that counts. It doesn’t matter
whether people admire your work. It doesn’t mat-
ter whether your work gains recognition for a
long, long time—or never. Each little improve-
ment lures you on to make better and better pic-
tures. Always ahead is the hope that one of these
days you will express that idea fully and com—
pletely. And in the meantime you will have a
clearer vision of a world so beautiful and varied
that no art can ever reproduce it.

Painting will help you keep your worries and
heartaches in their true perspective because they
will be viewed against a cosmic background. It
won’t remove the agony of war, but it will serve as
a palliative. As you study the grandeur of great,
billowing, white clouds against a summer sky of
limitless, deep blue, you may begin to feel some—
thing of the breadth and scope of the things which
are eternal, things which no strutting dictator can
change. Perhaps your awakening to the magnifi—
cence and beauty of the world may lead to the con-
clusion that, in spite of horror and bloodshed, in
Spite of cruelty and bestiality, kindness and beauty
and right will triumph in the end.

“Some day we shall not think of art as a pas-
time or the artist as one who paints a picture for
the library. Art will be understood as a necessary
part of- every human experience, a means of self—
fulfillment and joy. Nor will the word ‘practical'
mean a fixation of thought upon money and
things. We shall cherish every means by which
imagination is released and developed, by which
perception is stimulated and made powerful. . . .
We cannot go on concerning ourselves with things
and yet more things, neglecting the j'oyous release
of our personalities in some form of dynamic
1iving.”—David Seabury in Introduction to Finger
Painting by Ruth Shaw.

RECREATION

 

F YOU’ RE looking for
an inexpensive way to
entertain a large or small

group whose high holiday spirit
has gone on a down-hill toboggan °
ride, here’s a hot tip. In every bag-
ful of peanuts you’ll find a bagful of
, tricks that offers excitement, fun and
laughter—just the thing to wake up in
your group the esprit de corps that’s so
important for successful entertainment.
Here’s a list of peanut games to choose
from —whether you want hilarity or
quiet amusement. Peanuts in the shell and a few
odds and ends you can pick up around the house
are all the props you’ll need. Don’t worry about
breaking the ice. It’ll thaw out as soon as your fun
seekers start on the Plantation Peanut Hunt.

Plantation Peanut Hunt

This is a good game to break down those chilly
barriers that so often prevail early in the party.
Hide the peanuts before the folks arrive. Each one
is on his own, but may not pick up the peanut he
or she finds. The girls must ask the boys to pick
it up for them, and the boys must ask the girls.

Peanut Circulation

Divide the group into two or more circles, de-
pending upon the size of the group. Six peanuts
are passed at one time, very quickly around the

circle. On signal, the passing stops. The person ,

holding the peanuts is required to pay a penalty.
For the first offense, he must bend down on one
knee; for the second, he must put his'right arm
behind’him; for the third, he must kneel On both
knees with both arms behind him. The object of
the game is to remain standing. The sudden sharp
blow of a whistle or sudden stopping of the music,
or other sharp decisive signal may be used.

Three Blind Mice and Three Peanuts

Divide the group into three teams. Place a pea-
nut in the shell for each team on the starting line.

FEBRUARY 1945

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

The first player in each group gets on
his hands and knees and blows the
peanut across the floor. Between each
blow, he and the rest of his team sing
one line of “Three Blind Mice.” When the peanut (
is blown across" the .iinishing line, the contestant
picks it up, runs back, replaces it on the starting
line, tags the next player who repeats the pro-
cedure, and so on down the line. The first team to
finish wins.

Twelve Peanuts Go to a Music Recital

Divide the group into two teams—boys vs. girls.
Give twelve peanuts to the head of each team. On ,_
signal, the head of each team sings the notes of the
scale (the boy sings down the scale, the girl sings
up the scale) and then passes the peanuts to the
next in line. The next in line holds the peanuts,
too, while singing the scale before passing them on ~
to his_or her neighbor., The object of the game is
to sing the scale and get rid of the peanuts as soon
as possible to avoid being caught with them at the
crucial moment which is determined by the sound
of a whistle blown at ten second intervals. Any
player caught with the peanuts in her hand when
the whistle blows is listed and later required to
pay a penalty.

Along the Line.

Fasten strong buttonhole thread (one for each
team) to the wall. Run the thread the entire
length of the room. Put a darning needle in a pin
cushion. Place it on a table at the opposite end of
the wall to which the strings are fastened. On the
same table place bowls of peanuts in the shell (one

571

572 ‘ A NUTTY PARTY

bowl for each team) containing exactly the same
number as members in the team. Players are lined
up in relay formation. The game is started by hav-
ing the first player in each line thread the needle,
string the peanut, put the needle back in the pin
cushion and then run pulling the peanut to the end
of the string across the room. After touching the
wall he returns to the head of his line, touches off
the next player who repeats the procedure. It may
be necessary to have a nonparticipant hold the pin

cushion so that it won’t roll off the table while the
runners are taking their peanuts across the room.
The team whose players first empty the bowl of
peanuts, wins.

Eggwalk

Arrange a number of rows of eggs on the floor.
Ask for a volunteer to represent each row, to walk
along the row blindfolded. Before blindfolding
them, however, allow them an opportunity to walk
down the row, at a fast pace. Tell them that the
one who finishes the Eggwalk first, without break-
ing any of the eggs, will win. While blindfolds are

being put on, unknown to the volunteers, other
members of the group replace the eggs with pea-
nuts. The expression of dismay and trepidation
on the contestants’ faces at the sound of the crunch—
ing of the “eggs” makes this a very humorous
game.

A Bottle of Peanuts

Arrange several teams, according to the size of
the group. The teams may compete simultaneously

 

or in turn. There are two contestants on each
team. One holds a milk bottle on top of his head
with one hand and a tableSpoon in the other. His
helper holds a small mirror in front of him with
one hand and a bowl of peanuts in the other. The
first contestant tries to fill the bottle with peanuts
from the bowl using the tablespoon and looking in
the mirror. After a certain time limit, score one
point for each peanut in the bottle.

k
Four-cornered Peanut Race

Place chairs in four corners of the room. Two
players stand in opposite corners of the room in

RECREATION

A NUTTY PARTY 573

front if their respective chairs. Each player puts
his right hand palm down in front of him and
places a peanut on the back of his hand, and places
his left hand behind him. Each player goes around
the room in opposite directions and with his right
foot touches each of the four chairs as he passes it,
and returns to the starting point. And speed is
allowed, but there is always the danger of drop—
ping the peanut as the speed increases.

Peanuts Down the Hatch

Select‘a board at least 12—-20 inches wide. The
length will depend upon whether you wish to play
this game on the table or on the floor. (A pastry
board will do for the table game, an ironing board
for the floor.) Set it_ up in a sloping position

against the wall. Each player in turn rolls a pea—

inut down the board to the bottom. The player
Wins all the peanuts which his peanut has touched.
If no peanuts have been touched, his peanut re—
mains on the floor.

Put and Take

Make a cardboard circle 6 inches in diameter
and divide into seven sections. Write one of the
following in each section: Put I, Put 2, Put 3;
Take I, Take 2, Take 3, Take All. Color one
side of the tip end of a peanut to indicate the
pointer and pierce the center with a large darning
needle. The needle serves as a pivot which is
placed in the middle of the circle. The players sit
around a table and in turn spin the “pointer” and
put and take peanuts as the “pointer” indicates.

Peanut Ruler Race

The players are lined in two teams behind the
starting line. The first one holds a ruler "with‘ex:
tended arm and places a peanut on it. He walks to
a line about ten feet away, trying not to drop the
peanut. If the peanut falls, it must be replaced
before the contestant continues. After he reaches
the finishing line, he runs back, touches off the next
in line who repeats the procedure, and so on down
the line. The team that finishes first wins.

Peanut Race

Divide the group into equal teams, each facing
front. About six or eight feet from the starting
line place a box (one for each team) into which

the pointed end of a paper funnel has been inserted. '

Give each person in the team five peanuts. On the

FEBRUARY 1945

go signal, the first person in each line tosses his
peanuts, one at a time, into the funnel. When he
has finished, he steps away and the second person
tries his luck, and so on down the line. When
everyone has tossed, the team with the most pea-
nuts in its box wins.

Odd or Even .

Each person is given 6—8 peanuts. The object
is to get as many peanuts from the others as pos-
sible. John goes to Jane with a number of pea-
nuts concealed in his hand and says, “odd or
even.” If Jane guesses correctly, John must give
her the peanuts in his hand. If she guesses incor-
rectly Jane must give John the number of peanuts
he has concealed in his hand.

Nut Shelling Relay

Divide the guests into two or more groups.
About IO feet away, place a pan of peanuts in the
shell. At a given signal, the first in each line goes
to the pan, shells a peanut, chews and swallows it,
runs back, tags the next and goes to the end of the
line. The next one repeats the procedure, and so
on down the line. The team finishing first wins.

Pass the Buck

Players may sit around the table or in circles on
the floor. Select two colors of string and tie a piece
of string around each peanut, alternating the colors.
One color designates the buck, the other designates
the doe. Set one peanut down in front of each
player. On a given signal each player passes the
peanut to his or her right hand neighbor trying to
conceal the color of the string. At ten second in-
tervals a whistle is blown and each person calls out
“Buck” or “Doe” depending on the color of the
string of the left hand neighbor’s peanut. The one
who calls off his neighbor’s “animal” last is elimi-
nated. The object of the game is to remain active
as lorig as possible.

Peanut Walk

This is part of any" party! Mark circles on the
floor. Play a march and let all the participants
walk around stepping on the circles. When the
music stops suddenly the person standing on the
lucky number wins a large bag of peanuts. The
number of circles drawn depends upon the number
of people who are present.

Something New in Education!

LANEVIEW, the seventh largest
P city in Kansas, with a popu-

lation of approximately 20,000 people, is lo-
cated on a high plateau directly south of the city of
Wichita. The municipal airport joins Planeview
on the southeast, and immediately to the south is
the Boeing Airplane factory which produces the
famous 13-29. The Cessna Airplane factory is
about a half mile east. There are 4,382 housing
units, all within an area of one square mile. Each
of these homes is thoroughly~up to date, with a
living room, kitchen, utility room, bathroom, and
from one to four bedrooms.

This miracle city was built within fifteen months
after the ground was broken, and since Planeview
is not an incorporated city but a federal housing
project, it is managed by representatives employed
by the Federal Housing Authority. We have an
area housing manager who has been thoroughly
trained to administer such a city. He has an assist-
ant who works in close cooperation with every
agency in Planeview. There is an area maintenance
manager with an assistant, and a resident housing
manager assisted by a staff of accountants, clerks,
and stenographers.

The residents of Planeview come from forty-two
states and represent 225 different professions and
occupations.“ Our city is a typical Middletown, and
its residents represent a cross-section of good
American law-abiding citizens. According to this
year’s school census there
is a total of 8,159 chil-
dren under twenty—one
years of age. The mothers

By STRONG HmMAN

 

How would you like to be able to throw out

are selected by the residents in each
zone. Project service advisors are
employed to manage each community house and

to render assistance to the councils in each com-
munity.

The Schools and Their Facilities

The public schools operate ’as a separate school
district under the laws of the state of Kansas, with
a board of education of three members selected by
ballot by the residents. In the center of each of
the three zones of the city is a school building to
house elementary pupils. The junior-senior high
school, built to accommodate 750 pupils but now
serving over 1,400, is located near the center of
the city. There are also four nursery schools.

The school buildings are rather unique when
compared with traditional school plants. They are
well built but free from the architectural adorn-
ments which add to the cost of most school build-
ings. There is nothing “fancy” about these struc-
tures but they have been built for utility. They are
thoroughly modern in every reSpect with adequate
heat, light, sanitary toilet facilities, and drinking
fountains, but nothing has been spent unneces—
sarily. The walls of the rooms, painted with pastel
shades of blue, pink, green, and tan, are very
attractive.

Each elementary school is connected on one end
with a community building which has a large audi-
torium, kitchen, and several
spacious club rooms. These
facilities are available for

of almost 3,000 of them
work, approximately 1,400
mothers being in essential
industries.

It is the object of the
Housing Authorities to
operate Planeview on
democratic principles and
as a result they have or-
ganized councils in each
zone in the city to have a
voice in the management
of community affairs. The
members of these councils

574

of the window all the red tape which prevents
your doing a good job? Just what would you
do if you could start an educational system
free from tradition and unnecessary rules and
regulations? Given this freedom. what kind
of a school system would you organize?

They had this opportunity in Planeview, a
community in Kansas developed almost over
night to house war workers. Mr. HinmanI who
is Assistant Superintendent of the Planeview
Public SchoolsI tells how the school system.
which started a little over a year ago with
three teachers and seventy-five pupils. has
grown until today there are 4.446 pupils and

an employed personnel of ISS administrators,
teachers. secretariesI and custodians.

 

school purposes, and it is
not an uncommon sight to
see a class using a club
room for moving pictures
or a group discussion, or to
find a group of teachers pre—

., paring a meal in the kitchen

for some social occasion.
The auditorium is used
during the day for school
physical education classes
or an occasional assembly;
at night, for community
gatherings, and on Sunday
for religious services.

RECREATION

SOMETHING NEW IN EDUCATION! 575

 

At the opposite end of the school building is a
well-equipped nursery for children between two
and six years of age whose parents are employed in
the war effort. One is available for colored chil-
dren; three for white children. A staff of trained
teachers and other personnel is provided in each
nursery. Some of these children are brought to the
nursery at 5 :30 A. M. and are immediately put to
bed. Breakfast is served later, and during the day
a well-organized standard program for nursery
schools is carried on. This includes midmorning
and afternoon lunch and a well balanced hot lunch
at noon. A school nurse assists the personnel with
the health guidance program, and every effort is
made to keep these children healthy and happy
while their parents are busily engaged.

The playgrounds back of each school are spa-
cious. Part of each playground is planted with
Bermuda grass which makes a fine sod for playing
games. Part of each playground is covered with a
combination of sand and clay which provides all-
weather service. Swings, slides, a merry-go-round,
teeter-totters, horizontal bars, horizontal ladders,
jungle gyms, and basketball goals are installed on
each playground. Supplies such as balls, bats, nets,
and other types of play equipment are available at
each school and kept in a central place where all
may have access to them. '

During the past summer an experiment was
made in placing all movable supplies in a large
room where they were stored on shelves. Boys

and girls were given an opportunity to use these
materials whenever they wanted to, the only re-

FEBRUARY 1945

quirement being that when they had finished play-
ing with the article they would return it to its
prOper place. Many people, including some of our
own staff, told us that boys and girls could not be
trusted to return the supplies and that this scheme
would not work. They recommended that we re-
quire boys and girls to sign up for play equipment
when they took it from the play room. These
people discovered after a few days that it took a
lot of their time to check supplies in and out, and
they were very willing to try the experiment. The
teachers who were in charge of the supplies ex-
plained to boys and girls that we wanted them to
use them and to treat them as if they were their
very own. This was a new thought to some of the
youngsters, and most of them responded splen-
didly. One or two pupils did not understand and
took things home with them. When they found
out that activities could not go on unless these
supplies were available for all pupils, and when the
force of public opinion was brought to bear by
some of their own playmates, the supplies soon
returned to their rightful place on the shelves. The
things which these boys and girls learned about.
the proper use of public property, and the attitude
which they developed in sharing with one another
was worth far more than the few items which
were lost.

The junior—senior high school has well-equip-
ped laboratories for science and home making and
is especially fortunate in having up-to-the-minute
machines in the industrial arts shops. Boys who
enroll in machine shop or woodwork classes do so

576 SOMETHING NEW IN EDUCATION!

with the understanding that they are to produce
things necessary for the maintenance of the
schools. Last summer, for example, they made
and installed screens on all windows in the high
school, constructed easels for every classroom, and
are busy now making desks, telephone stands,
bookcases, and other school furniture. They are
developing useful skills and techniques while doing
work which is vital to the welfare of the schools.

Attendance

The attendance in the Plainview Public Schools
is much better than one would expect from such a
cosmopolitan group. We have a census and at-
tendance officer who assists materially in reducing
truancy. What may appear to the average citizen
as truancy is not that at all; many high school boys
and girls are out of school for a few hours, because
we Operate our high school from 8 A. M. to 5 P. M.,
making possible a very flexible schedule for stu-
dents. Some pupils begin school at 8 A. M. and
leave at 3 P M.; some come at 9 A. M. and leave at
4 P. M., and others begin at 10 A. M. and leave at
5 P. M. A few come to school on a split shift basis,
doing one or two hours work in the early morning
and several hours in the late afternoon. This leaves
the middle of the day free for work outside of
school.

Last summer the schools were open for aca-
demic and recreational purposes. We were told
that schools could not operate in the summer time
because boys and girls would not come back to
school once they were released in the spring. Our
experiment proved conclusively that boys and girls
do not dislike school when it is operated for their
benefit and, much to our surprise, more than
twenty-five per cent of our last year’s winter term
enrollment came back and enrolled in our summer
school academic classes, attending them regularly.
Some of these boys and girls took academic work
for credit; others took part in the classes on a
remedial basis without seeking credit. A third
group of students enrolled and attended for the
training and pleasure they received from the work.
The elementary schools Operated a morning session
and an afternoon session and it did not seem to
make much difference in the attendance whether

children were enrolled in the morning or afternoon
classes.

Personnel

The personnel necessary to carry on this educa-
tional program, totals 188 persons. It consists of

the superintendent, assistant superintendent, di-
rector of curriculum and guidance, coordinator of
visual education, director of census and attend-
ance, director of nursery schools, business manager,
chief engineer, principals, assistant principals,
teachers, nurses who‘ assist the classroom teachers
in the health guidance program, and custodians.
The classroom teachers are .well qualified for their
work.

All teachers in the Planeview Public Schools
were called together for an entire‘week before
school opened in the fall. This was a part of their
in—service training and each teacher was paid for
attending. General sessions, special group meet—
ings, and faculty meetings in each building were
conducted throughout the week. All of this paid
big dividends because the teachers were able to
outline their programs and set up their work so
that they could function effectively the very first
day of school. Policies were discussed, important
aspects of the curriculum explained, individual
building programs worked out, and many small
details concerning the year’s work were arranged
during this institute week.

Before the Planeview Public Schools were one
year old they were accredited in the North Central
Association of Secondary Schools and Colleges.
This was made possible because of the high stand-
ard of the teachers and also because of the quality
of the offerings in the curriculum.

The Curriculum

The entire curriculum, from nursery school
through the high school, is coordinated through the
ofiice of Dr. Cloy S. Hobson, Director of Curricu-
lum and Guidance. Made up of the planned and
organized experiences which the individual must
live in order to achieve a happy, rich, and success-
ful life, these experiences are selected from the list
of functions which people perform in life, as out-
lined in our basic philosophy. They are organized
around centers of interest located in the six areas:
home, school, Planeview, Kansas, the United
States, and the world.

A sound philosophy of education has been
adopted as the foundation upon which the curricu-
lum is deve10ped. Revised Several times to meet
the needs of changing conditions, it is a coopera-
tive venture in which all teachers have participated.
Our philosophy recognizes that the schools have

certain obligations and states that:

Educational facilities will be made available for
twelve months each year to all residents on the project

RECREATION

-——-—_-————

n for example, is responsi-

SOMETHING NEW IN EDUCATION! 577

regardless of age. For children under live years of
age, the nurseries will be maintained; for children
from six through high school age, the regular ele-
mentary and secondary school program; for adults,
various adult educational programs as needs and
demands arise.

Guidance will be given in fitness for optimum living
within the limitations imposed upon the individual by
heredity and environment. Fitness for living, 'be it in
the home, on the farm, in the factory, or at the front.
implies freedom from disease or signiticant deviations
from normal structure and function; enough strength.
speed, agility, endurance, and skill to accomplish the
maximum tasks that the day may 1bring; and mental
and emotional adjustment appropriate to the age of
the individual.

Direction in recreation activities will ‘be provided
throughoubthe year.

For the individual, the school will plan a program
based on his abilities, aptitudes, interests, needs, op-
portunities, and social obligations as they are dis-
covered in our study of him, that will help him *be-
come a well-integrated and contributing member in
our democratic society. '

For the family, the school will attempt to develop
a membership of socially-minded, self-governed indi-
viduals.

I

There are no departments in our school system
and all such areas of education as music, art, health,
and physical education, which are traditionally
handled by department heads, are given their
rightful place in the curriculum. There are no
supervisors of special subjects, hence no competi-
tion between groups for a lion’s share of the edu-
cational program. Each
elementary school teacher,

ble for giving health in-
struction to her pupils.
She does this‘by means
of specific lessons and also
through integration with
other subjects. A graded
course of study is pro-
vided for her through the
curriculum director. She
has full responsibility for
giving daily instruction
in physical education, in
addition to conducting -
two organized play peri-
ods each day at recess.
Once a week a helping
teacher is available to
assist the teacher with the

physical education pro-
gram.

FEBRUARY 1945

Vocal music is also the teachers’ responsibility,
and here, too, a helping teacher is ready to assist.
In the high school subjects such as English, mathe-
matics, and social studies there are teachers spe-
cially qualified to teach these subjects. High school
pupils receive specific health instruction in their
social studies and science courses which all are
required to take. One thing is kept uppermost in
the minds of the teachers at all times, and that is
the fact that we are teaching boys and girls rather
than subject matter.

A curriculum laboratory was conducted during
the past summer under the leadership of the di-
rector of curriculum and guidance. Principals and
teachers were employed to work in this laboratory
for the purpose of creating the curriculum which
would best meet the needs of pupils in the Plane-
view Public Schools. The experience gained by the
personnel who participated in this curriculum
laboratory has proved to be .of great value. The
contributions which they have made to the cur-
riculum have been equally worth while.

A thorough program of testing is carried on
under the direction of our director of curriculum
and guidance. Standard intelligence tests as well
as various types of achievement and aptitude tests

Cooking classes can be real recreation—
whether at school or in a boys' club

 

Carrier}! Madison Square Boys’ C lab

578 SOMETHING NEW IN EDUCATION!

are administered as a vital part of the total school
program. These tests are used in guiding and
counseling with pupils and their parents.

Children are placed at various levels in the
school program after they have been checked
thoroughly. Individual programs are worked out
to meet the special needs of some pupils. The
guidance program attempts to help high school
students prepare for their life’s work, and by
means of the various testing devices, as well as a
study of their total school picture, our director is
able to be of great assistance.

A library is being developed to serve the needs
of the pupils and teachers. During the past year
over 6,000 up—to-date volumes were placed on the
shelves to be used when needed. No text books
are required in some of the high school courses of
study, but pupils are required to prepare their
lessons from material in the library. This has
made it necessary to purchase many copies of some
'books so as to provide ample opportunity for all
pupils to study.

A coordinator of audio-visual education has
been added to the curriculum staff this year. This
arrangement makes the pictorial aids a definite
part of the curriculum set-up and the learning
situation. Pictures are used to supplement and
reinforce other subjects such as reading and dis-
cussion. Each school has a definite schedule of
days when materials and projection equipment are
available. At unscheduled times these services are
available on call. Picture sets are obtainable in
each building, or in the central library. The system
is using all the usual or perhaps unusual audio-
visual aids—motion pictures, slides, filmslides, fiat
pictures, maps, charts, radio and recordings, in so
far as equipment can be obtained. Some films and
slides are rented; others are purchased, depending
on the cost. A motion picture in color was made
during the summer of the various school activities.

It is being shown to all students and patrons in
the community.

The Summer Program

Our experiment in the summer school program
was built around a regular academic program and
a well-rounded recreation program. Kindergartens
were established open to pupils who would be
entering the first grade in the fall term. Pupils
who needed remedial work to help them continue
at a given grade level or to go on into a higher
one enrolled in grades one through six. High
school pupils were enrolled in the regular aca-

demic subjects. Some of these worked for credit
while others participated merely to brush up a
little. A visitor going into a cooking class in the
high school would be unable to determine which
boys and girls were in the class for credit or for
recreation. Boys and girls worked side by side in
the manual training shops using hammers, saws,
and planes to make things which would be useful
to them or to their families. In the sewing classes(
were found some girls who needed credit, butq
many were enrolled just for the fun of making'
their own dresses or cutting down an old one for a

smaller sister.

The dramatics class met daily and produced
many short plays which were used in the regular
weekly evening entertainments. The teacher of
dramatics visited each playground regularly and

told stories to the children.
A summer recreation band and an orchestra

were organized. Pupils who could play an instru-
ment were enrolled in these organizations. The
band, as well as the orchestra, helped make the.
weekly evening entertainments a success. Thesel
concerts provided an incentive for these boys and
girls to practice regularly during the summer and .
also made it possible to keep the bulk of the regu- .
lar high school band in action. The teacher of the
band and orchestra worked between the hours off
I P. M. and 9 P. M., making possible two practice 1
sessions daily. One session was held in the after—
noon for those boys and girls who were not em-l
ployed during that time of day, and an evening
hour was provided for those who worked during
the day time. An opportunity was given to ele- I
mentary school children to learn how to play a.
musical instrument. Many a child was taught
which end of a horn to blow into, how to hold the
instrument and to make his first note.

These little beginners in band and orchestra
worked together throughout the summer and
learned to play a good many simple pieces in
unison. When they had completed their summer
training, their parents were invited to a concert.
The parents who attended were amazed at the
wonderful progress their youngsters had made in
music in a few weeks.

Another experiment in music was to place
pianos in each elementary school and make them
available to boys and girls for practice purposes.
This was _done in order that those who did not
have a piano in their own homes might practice.
and also to eliminate noise which might disturb
some worker in the neighborhood who would be

 

 

RECREATION

l Jsleeping during the day. Any child who wanted to
‘ practice could do so by going to the principal of
l ‘the school and asking for a time to be assigned to
‘ him. These pianos were kept busy throughout
the day.

Moving pictures proved to be an interesting
'part of the summer program. Once a week the
children were given an opportunity to .see a picture
of an educational nature. The same teacher who
showed the pictures took the boys and girls on
‘ hikes, picnics, and fishing trips. It was quite a

sight to see a group of youngsters leaving school

l
l

. to go with their teacher on a hike or a fishing

excursion.

Arts and crafts were one of the most popular
features of the summer program. At no time were
the children told what to do, but they were always
encouraged to make something of their own choos-
ing. Free hand drawing, coloring with crayons,
painting with water colors, finger painting, weav-
ing with paper and string, making reed baskets,
molding animals out of paper, and similar types of
activities were carried on at a regular time each
day. Materials were furnished to boys and girls
without cost, and the finished articles showed much
creative ability.

Archery was provided on the high school ath—
letic field each afternoon. Boys and girls came from
all parts of the community to take part in this
interesting activity. They were allowed ample
freedom but were taught safety measures so that
no child would be in danger at any time. The
children were given responsibility for setting up
the equipment, using it, and seeing that it was
properly stored at the close of each session. This
sport grew steadily in popularity.

. Two softball teams were organized at each play-

: ground. A schedule was so arranged that both the
'A and B teams from two schools would play in the
same evening. The A teams would play at one
school and the B teams at the other. Fathers were
encouraged to serve as umpires of the games as
well as sponsors of these teams. Toward the end
of the season a real 'community spirit was begin—
ning to develop around the teams.

Each Thursday evening a community-wide en-
tertainment was provided in the high school audi-
torium with a program put on by the boys and
girls of the summer recreation program. The play-
grounds closed at 7:45 each Thursday, and the
children, teachers,.and parents would attend the
evening entertainments. There was music by the
band and orchestra, vocal and instrumental solos,

I FEBRUARY 1945

SOMETHING NEW IN EDUCATION!

579'

stunts by individual pupils, demonstrations of
group games, folk dancing, tumbling, and usually
a moving picture. The dramatics classes each
week put on a one—act play, sometimes two. These
evening entertainments permitted individuals and
groups to entertain their friends and relatives in
an evening of relaxation.

Recent Experiments

“Necessity is the mother of invention,” and the
most recent experiments in education were forced
on us. The spacious play and athletic field which
adjoins the high school does not have a fence of
any description. Our football team has a full
schedule of games, some of them scheduled to be
played on the home grounds. Paid admissions
could not be charged and collected, so the Board of
Education decided to finance football as a regular
part of the educational program and not attempt
to charge admissions. It was an entirely new idea
to the hundreds of people who attended the first
game and were admitted free. We explained to
the students and parents that football is consid-
ered a part of the total education program and that
we should not charge people to visit a football
class any more than we would collect a fee from
them to visit a foods laboratory, machine shop, or
English class.

The crowds have been well behaved and the
response of the pupils and public has been .very
gratifying. The experiment of conducting free
athletic games as a regular part of the total cur-
riculum has been a success. '

Another experiment which came about because
of overcrowded conditions has to do with the physi-
cal education classes. There is only one gymnasium
available for boys and" girls classes and they must
share it when the weather prevents them from
working outdoors. The enrollment in some of
these classes was so large that it was impossible to
do any kind of teaching. Several attempts were
made to change schedules of pupils to relieve the
crowded situation but they were of no avail. Stu-
dents were asked to volunteer to drop physical
education, but they preferred to stay in the large
classes. 50 school administrators decided to ex-
clude all juniors and seniors from physical educa-
tion and to conduct co-physical education classes.
The instructor for boys conducts the class during
one period with the instructor for girls acting as
his assistant. The next period the 'woman con-
ducts the class and the man assists her. Some

(Continued on page 612)

A Serviceman Considers Memorials

EAR EDITOR: Recently, in
D the newspaper of a big
\Nest Coast city, I saw
an article about a proposed
World War II memorial. It
discussed approximate costs
and had a map showing the
proposed location. Now, this
is not a model city; like most
big cities, it has plenty of slums and needy children.
This monument to be dedicated to our revered
(lead should be stopped. The money could go to—
ward slum clearance, child clinics or any one of a
thousand useful projects.

Take it from a serviceman who has been in com-
bat overseas and will be going back shortly, we
don’t want to be commemorated by any showy and
useless pile of marble. We’d much rather see our
children benefit by large, well-equipped parks or
perhaps a new lighting system or better desks in
their classrooms—or anything really worth while.

During the early 20’s, a friend of mine took
several trips through France. There she saw beau-
tiful marble statues and vases with inscriptions
that ran, To Our Heroic Dead, They Died That
We Might Live in Peace, and so on. In one place
there was a sunken garden with a fountain and
other fancy features, and a hired caretaker to keep
the lawns cut and the flowers trimmed. It was all
very beautiful and very expensive. The money
could have kept a small hospital going. People of
moderate means were inclined to feel that these
memorials were unnecessary and somewhat vulgar.
So do_ I.

The easiest prospect for a high-geared salesman
is one who has had a close relative killed, and so
misguided citizens influential in city and state
politics often succeed in putting over a huge white
monument—huge white elephant !— in the midst
of need and poverty. Those who have lost sons,
husbands or brothers should remember that real
improvements can also be specifically dedicated to
their dead. For instance. it
has long been customary to
give rooms and beds in hos-
pitals in the name of a loved
one. They Died That We
Might Live in Peace would
look a lot finer over the

580

"They Died That We Might Live in Peace

would look a lot finer over the entrance

to a slum-children's playground than on
an alabaster vase." says S/Sgt.R.V.W. of
the USMC in the "Letter of the Week"
reprinted here by special permission‘ot
The Saturday Evening Post. Copyright
I944 by the Curtis Publishing Company.

The Municipality, publication of the
League of Wisconsin Municipalities.

tells in its December, I944, issue of
the plans a number of American com-
munities are making to honor their
servicemen through living memorials.

entrance to a slum-children’s
playground than on an ala;
baster vase, and any man in
the service would be prouder
to have one small swing in
that playground given in his
name than all the marble—
columned temples that ever
wasted good space, time and
the people’s money. —S/SGT. R.V.W., USMC.

When Paducah, Kentucky, purchased two blocks ‘
of property recently for a “living war memorial” I
in the form of a municipal recreation center,-the
action typified a trend which many cities, towns
and villages are following in planning memorials
in honor of their sons and daughters who died in
the present war.

Municipal officials in growing numbers feel that I
a “living” memorial in the form of an athletic field, i
a municipal auditorium or a community center, I
would better present a community’s honor and
respect for its servicemen.

Reports. from a score of cities indicate this feel-
ing on the part of municipal officials and civic
leaders, a feeling bolstered in many instances by
opinions of veterans’ organizations. Various ex—
amples will illustrate what municipalities have in
mind concerning war memorials.

Muskegon County, Michigan, for example, is
planning to erect an auditorium and civic center
and a recreation center, while Louisville, is con-
sidering the establishment of a Jefferson County
memorial park.

Edgerton, Wisconsin, voters recently approved
a referendum calling for construction of a $75,000
memorial hall to be financed through appropria-
tions of $15,000 a year for five years, while two'
Canadian communities—Peterborough and Nepean ‘
——are planning to erect community center-recrea~
tion buildings as war memorials.

In Toledo, Ohio, a committee composed of the
city commissioner of engi—
neering, and representatives
of the American Legion, the
city commission of publicity
and efficiency, and various
civic groups, has been ap-‘

(Continued on page 606) '

RECREATION

The Work of Our Head and Our Hand

B, THE PEOPLE are
W coming of age. We

a r e b e c o m i n g
aware of ourselves—as a people. We are forget-
ting, for bits and pieces of time, to be amazed and
more than a little pleased at our young muscles,
our sprawling, tempestuous, unrestricted power.
We are getting old enough so that, every now and
then, “a cup of tea rests us.” We are even begin-
ning to be interested in our own history—-our own
folk ways—a sure sign that we are getting on.

In its infancy and during its pioneering ado-
lescence and youth the people of the United States
.were craftsmen. Many of them, like Paul Revere,
were line craftsmen with many skills of hand.
Partly because Revere took a ride, partly because
he worked in silver and brass that endure, his
craftsmanship is remembered and cherished and
copied. But there were others, humbler people,
whose names have long since disappeared with the
shards of their pottery, the nails dropped by the
horses they had shod. They were those (ancestors

r-

Typical Vermont crafts-
man in his home workshoP

‘ v

 

FEBRUARY 1945

By REBECCA GALLAGHER WILLIAMS
Vermont State Director of Arts and Crafts

of ours whose household
knowledge was so vast.
They knew which plants
made the loveliest dyes, which cured fevers, which
flavored food. They could string a loom almost
blindfold and carve a canoe or a bowl with equal
ease. They were music lovers and they made their
own iiddles and dulcimers to accompany them-
selves when they sang to the tunes brought from
overseas verses of their own making. Their house-
hold needs were beautifully fllled for they were
endowed with the eye that sees and they drew upon
the handiwork of nature for their designs.

They did not, as a rule, commit their lore to
writing. By father to son, by mother to daughter,
the skills were taught not as “arts” or as “crafts”
but as part of the natural and necessary training
of householder or housewife. When machines and
science iirst supplemented and then supplanted. the
work done by hand, much of this skill was lost to
general knowledge. It lingered on in areas where
the new technologies were slow to come or where
a strong sense of family tradition preserved the
family wisdom along with the family Bible and
the trinkets that great-great—great—grandfather
gave to great-great—grandmother when she was
sixteen. A few
h o m e s, t o o,
cherished the
things that an-'
e e st 0 r' s h a (1
«made. These
p e o p l e a n (1
these things are
coming into ”
their own again.
Ancient cover-
lets and chests
and pewter and
glass and patch-
work quilts w
handled with
infinite and lov—
ing care —— are
today providing
patterns and in-
spiration for
new craftsman-
ship.

581

O

582 THE WORK OF OUR HEAD AND OUR HAND

The war has
given impetus
to an interest
that was trick-
ling down from
“collectors” and
“experts” in
craftwork. Im—
ported “peasant
art” from Mex-
ico and Swit—
zerland and
Austria, from
Czechoslovakia
and Jugoslavia
and the Scan“
dinavian coun-
t r i e s h a (1
brought about a
renaissance of
interest in folk
arts and folk
crafts during
the period between two world wars. When the
present holocaust in Europe effectively dammed
the supply of imports both sellers and buyers of
the peasant art type of goods began to look nearer
home for supplies. It was apparent that there were
people all over the country who had skills as fine,
native patterns as beautiful in their simplicity, ma-
terials as charming as the people of Europe had
used. There were other pe0ple eager to learn the
processes that would make them, too, skilled in
these affairs. But, in general, these people were
too unself-conscious about their crafts to know
how or where to market the things they could
make. Individuals or groups in their communities
did what they could to help, but the efforts were
scattered at, best and were often dependent upon
uncertain financial backing to keep going.

In 1941 the Vermont State Legislature, in rec-
ognition of this situation perhaps, made a modest
appropriation for an Arts and Crafts Service to be
set up under the State Department of Education.
The purpose of the service was two-fold—to pro-
vide a clearing house to put craftsmen and shop-
owners into direct touch with each other so that
the craftsmen could hnd outlets for their products
and the shopowners and other interested people
could hnd products of the kind they wanted for
their shelves; and to stimulate interest and par-
ticipation in arts and crafts among children and
young people. .

 

A veteran spinner uses her old fla
wheel to spin a new fibre, aralac .

The program is state-wide with headquarters in
the State House. Here visitors are interviewed.
craftsmen’s articles are received for comment and
advice, requests for assistance are answered. From.
the State House ofhces the Arts and Crafts Ser-
vice sends field workers throughout the state. In
its files is information about shops and marketing
centers, data on craftsmen who live in all Ver-
mont’s counties, the names of groups and indi-
viduals both in the state and outside of it who‘are
interested in the deve10pment of arts and crafts.

There is a mass of reference material available
to anyone who cares to use it. Information about-
equipment, supplies, and Federal legislation may '
be had for the asking; Photographs of craftsmen
at work and many beautiful objects made in Ver-
mont are the beginning of a permanent collection
of contemporary Vermont handicrafts.

The Service is working more and more closely
through teachers and art supervisors in the ele-
mentary, secondary, and normal schools of the
state. Craftwork as a free-time, out-of—school ac-
tivity is encouraged. The use of low-cost materials
is stressed and visits to workshops of outstanding
craftsmen in the community are suggested when—
ever they are possible. The Service suggests ways

( Continued on page 606)
RECREATION I

 

 

“Just Some ldeas I Had"

By HOWARD G. SPORE
Physical Education Maintenance Department
Board of Education
Wichita. Kansas

never done that type of-
work, I felt sure I would be
able to do it satisfactorily.
I was told to report for duty
on the following Monday

. CAME to Wichita, Kan-
I sas, in July 1922. Two
hours after I left my

" house in search of a place to
work, I found employment

-in a small harness shop. In the latter part of
August, the Supervisor of Physical Education of
the public schools of Wichita came into the shop.
‘ He said he was seeking some one who would do
1 ‘the repair work on the balls for all the schools for
the coming term. I told him I thought I would be
able to handle it through the shop and we made
tplans to that effect. The balls were to be delivered
to me and picked up again on the following week.

I kept a record of all work done for each school
-—the number of balls repaired, what kind, and the
cost. Just before the close of

I school the next spring, I
took the records of the work
over to the Board office,
asking them if they would

, like to have it as a refer-
ence. The Supervisor said
he was glad to get it, that it
was something that they
never had before as no one
would ever take the trouble
to keep a record. Then, too,
no one had ever gone
through the entire term re-
pairing them. It had been done by first one and
then another, and it was impossible to keep a
record.

That closed my work for the Board for the time
being. During the month of July 1923, I had a
bone felon, first on my left hand, then on.my right.

f Being unable to do anyhand work at the shop, about

| all I attended to was the mail. One Saturday toward

I the end of the month, not having much to do, I
left word that I was going over to see about mak-
ing arrangements for the repairing of balls for the
Board of Education during the fall. I got there

; just in time. The Supervisor and the Superintend-
ent of Buildings and Grounds were just leaving

1 the Board of Education shop to see about getting a

' man to put out on the football field so as to have
it in shape for the fall games. I asked if they had
anyone in mind and when told they did not, I
[asked for the position. I said that although I had

3 FEBRUARY 1945
l

His hands were disabled when he needed
them most—but he didn't let that stop him.
He was without equipment— but that
merely spurred him on. He faced difficul-
ties of all kinds—but they only made him
more anxious to get on with the job.

Here is his story—in his own words—
as he told it to us for RECREATION. "I can
operate a machine, cut leather, tie knots.
and make patterns." he said. "but I just

don't know the least little bit about this
thing called writing." .

morning. I was given a small key to the main
gate on the athletic field. That was all the equip-
ment I ever had handed over to me, all the re-
sponsibility I had at the time.

When I opened the athletic field that morning
it was far from inviting. At one time it had been
an alfalfa field. The field and a very large portion
of the playfields had been under water during the
spring flood, which was the largest Wichita had
had for several years. No one had been working
on it. Sunfiowers (for which Kansas is noted)
stood a foot higher than the
eight-foot fence. Later I had
to use a Boy Scout ax to
cut some of them down, they
were so large and tough.
The base filling for the
quarter-mile cinder track
had been hauled in, piled up
along where the 'track—
some day—was to be, but
that also was about hidden
with weeds and sunflowers.
It was everything but a
pleasant sight, and to make
it that much harder, I faced all that with one hand
that I could use a little and the other one in such
shape that I hadn’t slept much for three weeks—-
going every evening to have it burned out with
caustic. '

With the one thought in mind, “Nothing at—
tempted, nothing gained,” I started in. I took a
scuffle hoe and cut off everything that grew above
the ground on the football field. There had, at one
time, been some Bermuda grass roots planted, but
they were few and far between. When I found any
I left them grow. Going back over the ground after
clearing it of weeds, thistles, and Mexican sand
burrs, I kept all the Bermuda runnners covered up,
planting more roots in the bare spots. I kept
sprinklers going all the time. In some cases.I had
to use just the open hose, but I kept it well:-
watered. It was so late in the summer before I
started my work that not all of the grass had time

583

584 ' “JUST SOME IDEAS I HAD”

to become firmly rooted by fall. But I did have a
nice clean field—a nice, green gridiron and the
rest of the field all cleaned out.

The new high school building that was being
erected was supposed to be done for the opening
of school, but it was a month late. I didn’t have
much of any place to do any repair work of any
kind, so I made me a bench in front of a window
in the football field house. The bench was two
foot long and not much wider. I used a few hand
tools of my own which I had brought from home.
When cold weather set in, I had to move from my
field house workshop. The high school hadn’t been
released by the contractors yet, so I moved into
one small corner of the supply room, and there
once more I set up a small bench. When the school
finally Opened, the gym was turned over to me to
take care of. There wasn’t enough work for two
men on an eight hour day, but too much for one
to get done in that time. I agreed to take it all
over, working as many hours as was needed to get
all the work done. A twelve hour day was what I
called my short day.

By 1925 I thought I could fulfill a dream that I
had had during all the hours when I was all alone
out on that football field the first summer. That
was to build up a department capable of doing all
our own work—making most of our equipment
and keeping all of it in repair; putting a stop to all
the trouble of finding some. one to do it, then
being held up when we did find him!

I told my plans to the Superintendent, but he
informed me that school systems never went in for
making sporting goods equipment. I told my plans
to our Supervisor, and asked for a couple of yards
of canvas to make a thirty-inch cage ball. I was
given an order, and I bought the material, went
out to the gym, laid the material on the fioor, and
on my hands and knees I cut it out to pattern. In
the back of the Singer Sewing Machine Company,
on an old, second-hand machine, I sewed it up.
When I put the bladder in, all my h0pes and
dreams faded. That cage ball, without a doubt,
was the sorriest looking piece of work I have ever
seen! A field pumpkin had a far better shape. I
finally decided I had cut the material the wrong
way of the goods, trying to save material. I still
felt sure I could make that ball. My second at-
tempt turned out beautifully. It was perfect!
When it was presented at the Board meeting, I
was granted my request to buy a machine to make
cage balls for our own use and to help in doing
other sewing that might come up. The amount of

money that was granted me was enough, by shop-
ping around a little, to buy two machines. The next
request I made was for a motor for my machines.
That was granted, and from time to time I laid by
a supply of the equipment I needed to build the
department.

I had as yet to try out my biggest idea—that of
making infiated balls for the grade schools. Ma-
terial and equipment for that would run into
money, but step by step I built up to it. Out on
that football field my first summer I laid plans that
I thought would take about ten years to complete.
My ten years were to be‘ up in July 1933. The
Board passed on my last project, that of inflated
balls for the grade schools, in April 1933. I beat

the goal I had set into the future by three months. '

At the present time I am manufacturing 194
different pieces of equipment for our school system
——anything from a keyring strap to a, six-foot push
ball. Our playfields and athletic fields have been
expanded until now we have thirteen tennis courts.
and during the spring baseball tournament we can,
if called upon, lay out eight official diamonds and
still have room to spare. All the ground not used
for the school lawns is serving as playfields. The
larger portion of them are planted in Bermuda
grass and kept mowed.

After several years of work, the most of which

. I did after my working hours here, I have made

as complete a set of sports records as it is possible
to make—of basketball, football, golf, swimming,
tennis, track, baseball, and wrestling. For basket-
ball and baseball I have all games played back to
the first year they were played by our high school.
Football started in 1894, basketball in 1902. The
girls played basketball the previous year, but the
boys wouldn’t have anything to do with it, saying
it was a “sissy” game. (How this world has
changed!) I keep the wins and losses, all per-
centages worked out both for the year and the
grand total for all games. I have records of all
players’ names and positions, and the coaches] I
have another record of all the coaches compiled
together, giving the number of years they coached
each sport, wins, losses, and their percentages. It’s
rather amusing sometimes to hear some one brag
about a certain coach, telling how grand he was.
Then, when the records are referred to, Oh what
a mistake! My regular set of records are for use
in any way that the school, newspaper, or broad-
casting stations want, but those of the coaches are
not for public use. (You can readily see why they

(Continued on page 614)

RECREATION

Recreation
New Obligations— New Approaches

HEN WE THINK of the

birth and growth of the

American nation, we in-
variably think of three institu-
tions: town meeting, school,
and church. Each of these was
serious in aim and function.
The town meeting had the job of wrestling with
the problems of the community; the school, of
stimulating and training the laggard juvenile mind;

‘ the church, of keeping men from going to the

devil.

Something, However, is omitted from this usual
characterization of our country’s development.
America was not born wholly in seriousness; nor
have the typical qualities we call American been
nurtured exclusively in an atmosphere of practi-
cal-minded concern. A good case could be made
for the thesis that the practice of freedom in
America and the love of it
were given their expression
and strong support by insti-
tutions that were not serious
at all. There was, for ex-
ample, the barn dance—as
typically American as the
little red schoolhouse or the
steepled church. There was
the corn-husking; the quilt-
ing bee; the county fair; the
hog—calling; the Saturday
night band concert; sandlot
baseball; the Halloween
party; the picnic and the
Clambake; the spelling bee;
the church social; the
Thanksgiving dinner; the
Fourth of July parade and
fireworks.

These were America in
the mood of having a good
time; America putting aside
the compulsions of business,
work, chores, lessons, legis-
lating, and doing what

FEBRUARY 1945

By HARRY A. OVERSTREET

Extracts from address delivered by

Dr. Overstreet at the luncheon meet-
ing, Tenth Annual Chicago Recreation

Conference held November 22. I944.

One of the early American sports which
persists today and will be popular as
long as there are small boys and snow!

 

America wanted to do.

Not all the doings were
always worth while. Some
were foolish; some vulgar. But
the important fact was that
Americans thus made areas of
freedom for themselves. In

these areas of freedom they built the kind of
world—of folk fun and laughter—they wanted to
live in for the time being. It did not matter
greatly if nothing “practical” came out of these
play worlds; that they were as insubstantial as air.
The important thing was that Americans made
these imaginative worlds for themselves, and that
in making them they learned, through their folk
fun, the ways of free pe0ple. Even when, as in the
case of the barn-raising and the quilting bee, useful
work was done, it was still done in a fashion that
let the workers pretend they were playing. It was
work without a ball and chain
attached.

There is something here
that seems to account for a
certain quality found in the
American type of freedom— ‘
a jauntiness and lack of
pomposity ; a certain power
to take things gaily in one’s
stride; to be neither over-
pitying of oneself nor over—
glorifying; 'to make a joke
. even when things are crash—

m ing. It seems to account for
a certain resiliency—bounce
—in the American character.
“Swing your partner—all
join hands.” People who
could stomp through the
calls of the square dance—
sweaty, laughing, shouting
—-would not be likely, the
next day, to be ugly, back-
biting, and absorbed with
secret maneuvers. People
who could yell at the umpire

585

586 RECREATION: NEW OBLIGATIONSmNEW APPROACHES

in the sandlot baseball would not be likely to sit
around at night manipulating hidden deals against
one another. People who could pack up the old
truck with picnic baskets and all the available
children and grown-ups could not help but have a
certain gusto in life. Such people would have in
them the stuff out of which freedom could be made.
We are apt to think of freedom too exclusively
in terms of impassioned speech making, or of
heroic defense against an enemy. It is important
to think of it also in terms of play. Play is one of
the most essential laboratories of freedom. Psy-
chologists tell us that there is no transfer of skills;
yet we may 'be daring enough to guess that a
peOple bred in the freedoms of play—particularly
of folk play—gain something by the rough and
tumble and give and take of such play that makes
their other freedoms more robust and assured.

Knowing People Through Play

PeOple who don’t play with one another are not
apt to know one another very well. Work all your
life in the same office with a person, and you may
know very little of him. When he comes into the
office he puts on his office self. He trots out his
office abilities and his office interests. The rest of
him he holds in abeyance. But go fishing with
him, or play poker, or compete with him in a
gunny sack race at the County Fair, and you may
be surprised at the things you never knew about
him!

Play shows up more sides of people than does
work. Work occupies only part of our attention-
span and brings out into the open only certain
qualities in ourselves. These may not be the most
important, the most delightful, or even the most
detestable. They will simply
be the qualities called for by
the work requirements and
the work environment.

 

"Music in every village . . .

have to vote at frequent intervals for the ever-
shifting small army of their rulers. If they have
little eXperience of people they will make blunders
in their choice that are too costly for a democracy.
Again, as citizens of a free society, they have to
make laws for themselves and their fellows. If
they don’t adequately know their fellows (the
white-Negro situation is a case in point) ; if they
don’t really know what they want and need, have
no common feeling with them, they will not be
wise in the laws they make.

Hence a democracy is powerfully helped along
by citizens who have the habit of playing with one
another. Things go bad when too many citizens
take their pleasures by their individual selves or,
with their small intimate groups; sit in their rooms
twirling a private dial and listening privately to
what comes over the air; or occupy a seat hired
for their private use in a theater and sit insulated
by the dark. Citizens of a democracy who never
play together miss the chance of really knowing
one another. They suffer the danger of splitting up
into sets, cliques, classes, and castes.

Play—A Basic Freedom

Play is no trifling afterthought in a democracy.
It is one of the basic freedoms, because it is itself
both the eXpression and the strengthener of free-
dom.

Recreation, therefore, is not a secondary concern
for a democracy. It is a primary concern; for the
kind of recreation a people make for themselves
determines the kind of people they become and the
kind of society they build.

Unfortunately, this is still far from being under—
stood in America. We still drape a solemn Puri—
tanism about'us and intone
that life is real and life is
earnest and a bank account

not merely is but its goal. We still feel

Hence those of us who know
people as merely fellow
workers are not likely to
know them with all-round-
ness and thoroughness of
understanding.

Democracy, however, re-
quires that its citizens be
wise about people: in other
words, that they have a
kind of “people-sense.” This
is obviously necessary, for
the citizens of a democracy

 canned music or air-borne music, but music

played by the people themselves; music
made intimate and lovely by direct crea-
tion and participation.

"Plays in every village . . . people learn-
ing to write and act the plays themselves.

"Artists in every village . . . farmer,
Storekeeper. mechanic, learning the delights
of color and design.

"Study groups in every village . . . learn-
ing history. science, politics. philosophy.
economics: learning to search out ideas.

"Is this fantastic? Or is this not of the
very essence of the American Dream?"

that if we venture to do the
things we want to do, sim-
ply and solely because we
like to do them, we are
dangerously near to yield-
ing ourselves to the im-
providence of the devil.

We as a pe0ple need to
know, far more truly than
we now do, what the life of
the free spirit means. It is
the life that fulfills itself on
all fronts.

RECREATION

RECREATION: NEW OBLIG.»lTIONS——NEW APPROACHES 537

4"

 

- f
it?

c a.” as) uveumy butterm rock res-twat Assomtsou, Plumaphic

People come to know one another

Most Americans have deplor-
ably little chance to live their
life on all fronts. In countless villages, towns and
cities, on hundreds of thousands of farms, they
live a life limited and drab; confined within the
mere struggle to survive. They live the kind of
life that breeds the prejudices of ignorance; that
builds up ungenerous partisanship and a mean
exclusiveness of class and caste. They do not live
the kind of all-around life that makes people fit for
a free society.

We need in these days to develop a sounder and
more comprehensive philosophy of freedom than
most of us now possess. Most of us get as far as
“freedom of enterprise” and think it means simply
the freedom to do business as we please. Freedom
of enterprise should, however, come to mean the
broader and deeper freedom to use all our powers
of body, mind and spirit in activities that help to
make the life of all of us more greatly livable.

We have talked hitherto of ourselves as a peo-
ple whose job it was to conquer a continent. We
come now to the'time when, with a continent
fairly well under control we turn to ourselves
and ask what has been left unfinished within us.
Our next job, we now begin to see, is to release
the more authentic qualities in ourselves; to make
ourselves into a people wise and generous and

FEBRUARY 1945

better when they play together

inSpired enough for the enter-
prise of democracy.

Building a Better America

Now when all things are in a flux; when a
tragic war has stirred us to the depths; when we
are thinking of a future that we hope is to be in
many ways different from the past, we need to
resolve that the America we build will make better
chances for all its peOple.

A society, to be rich in culture and democrati-
cally great, must have institutions that tap more
than the practical, self-centered, competitive im-
pulses of its people. It must tap their generous and
creative impulses as well.

This is what those old institutions of folk-fun
did. They gave Americans a chance to be free in
ways that were good for everybody; ways that
made peOple friendlier; better acquainted with one
another; more ready to cooperate and help.

We need a modern program for the building of
a more soundly democratic culture. In many ways
we have departed from the democratic ways of the
fathers. we no longer, for the most part, live as
neighbors, but as strangers in towns and cities.
We no longer play together but go to see people
play for us. We no longer put hands and minds
together as neighbors to do a common thing that

588 RECREATION: NEW OBLIGATIONS—NEW APPROACHES

needs doing and that feels good in the doing. We
hire a contractor. Our highly concentrated eco-
nomic society has chiefly brought out in us the
self—centered, self-isolating, competitive impulses.

A program for America needs to aim at two
things: (I) to call out the non—competitive, non-
self-centered impulses; (2) to induce people to ex-
perience their pleasures together instead of too
exclusively in private.

Importance of the Recreative Arts

Here is where the recreative arts become a
powerful aid in the building of a democratic peo-
ple. These arts do so many different things for
so many different peOple that they can play a major
part in making people fit for a free society.

In the first place, the_recreative arts can be one
of the best preventives of juvenile delinquency.
They can help save our young people. They can
give them the chance for group association where
they can make friendships; where they can have a
sense of “belonging”; where they can create their
own areas of freedom. Delinquency among young
people is largely a matter of insecurity and bore-
dom; of having nothing to do that is interesting or
worthwhile; of counting for nothing. Recreation
can give to them pro-social ways of getting the
excitement and pride in participation that young
people need.

In the second place, the recreative arts can build
a high morale among people. Morale, as Gordon
Allport has said, is the sense of feeling equal to
the situation. To play with others, or volun-
tarily to pursue some worthwhile interest with
others, gives the individual a~ sense of know-
ing pe0ple; of knowing his own powers; and of
knowing his way around.

In the third place, the recreative arts can
serve all sorts of therapeutic purposes. This is
aptly illustrated by the project started at the
Museum of Modern Art in New York City to
give free courses in art in order “to help dis-
charged veterans find their way back into civil-

ian pursuits and pleasures.”

‘fFormer soldiers and sailors will receive free
instruction in sculpture, ceramics, drawing, paint-
ing, woodworking design, jewelry, metal work,
book illustration, wood engraving, graphic arts,
silk screen printing, lettering, layout, typography,
and weaving. Whether these men use it for rec-
reation or for professional development directed
toward new and better positions in the various
fields of applied arts and crafts, the underlying
purpose of the Veterans’ Art Center will be not

only to bridge the gap between service and civilian
life Ibut to give the veteran impetus and aid toward a
happier and more successful life than he had before
the war.”

In all kinds of ways we are learning that crea-
tive work undertaken for the pleasure of the work
itself is one of the best medicines for those who
are broken in body or mind.

In the fourth place, the recreative arts can serve
in more ways than can be easily enumerated to
release the healthy energies of people. Our routines
demand much of us in the way of self—denial. We
have to suppress certain desires in us ;' keep from
doing things we would like to do at times when
we would like to do them. The recreative arts
give us our chances to do the things we want to
do. They are an important way of letting off
steam. When we engage in them we feel the
singular relief of.being ourselves; of being free
agents; of being beyond the compulsions.

Finally, the recreative arts can serve powerfully
as integrative forces in community life. Boys of
all classes can play together on the neighborhood
baseball team; different neighborhoods can play
together. Pe0ple can come together to hear music;
to see plays. PeOple can sing together and yell
together. r

We have here, then, in these five functions, a
test that can be applied to any community. To
what extent is it using recreation to

help young pe0ple escape the bore-

RECREATION

If they begin an
art of playing to

i

4

 

age to learn the
much the better!

RECREATION: NEW OBLIGATIONS—NEW APPROACHES 589

dom and the aimlessness that easily lead to delin-
quency? To what extent is it providing recrea-
tional opportunities where morale is low? To what
extent is it making use of the recreative arts for
restoring those disabled in body or mind? To what
extent does it open opportunities for those releases
of energies that are essential to everyone living in a
highly routinized society? To what extent does it
integrate its peOpIe through the arts of common
enjoyment and common participation?

Filling the Gap

We might define recreation as “whatever people
do to fill the gap between their established routines
and what they think of as the good life.”

With some of us the gap is very small. Our
established routines—in business or profession—
are themselves the kind of life we like to live. Our
work, we say, is our play. With others.of us the
gap is wide; there is little in the established rou-
tines that we like. Our hopes for the good life have,
therefore, to be found outside the routines.

Society is made up of all kinds of people with all
kinds of gaps between what they are compelled to
do and what they would like to do. Those who
organize recreation in a community have to re-
member all these different kinds of people and
respond to their different needs. Fundamentally,
however, there are three major things that rec"-
reation leaders in a community have
to do:

 

C on rtesy M inneapoli: M orm'ng Tribune

15'HBlilU1-XHY;~ 1945

'(I) They have to make people who are com-
pletely caught in a routine aware of the neglected
parts of themselves that they could enjoy if given a
chance. This might be called the “awakening”
function of recreation leaders. Their job is to call
attention to the Opportunities a community offers
for the pleasurable use of leisure time, and to make
those opportunities so attractive that routinized
individuals will drag themselves out of their
routines.

(2) They have to encourage pe0ple toward those
forms of recreation that are on the side of good
feeling and fellowship in a democratic society. Not
all forms of recreation are democratically good.
Gambling, cock-fighting, low forms of dancing may
work positive harm. The job of recreation leaders
is to create a love for the kinds of recreation that
make people more fit to live with themselves and
their fellows. This might be called the “directive”
function of recreation leaders.

(3) They have to supply the actual situations in
which people can enjoy such recreation activities
as go beyond the individual’s capacity to supply for
himself. For example, the individual cannot"  a
discussion group by himself; or provide himself
with a series of lectures; or stage a play with him-
self as playwright, actor, director, and audience.
Opportunities have to be provided for experi-
ences in situations that go beyond the individual
himself. This is the “organizing” function of rec-
reation leaders.

Moving Toward a Free Society

There is a time of great confusion and bitter-
ness ahead of us in America. Never before have
there been so many persons uprooted. The
soldier has been uprooted. 'He will return a
stranger to his land; perhaps a stranger disabled
in body and spirit. The war worker has been
uprooted. He lives in an alien city. His chil-
dren go to school with alien children. He and
his family have nothing stable enough in their
lives to encourage them to send down their
roots into the community life. And because he
and his family are aliens, there is not a happy or
helpful relation between them and the people of
the community.

Never before in America has there been so
vast a migration of its pe0ple: its young men
and women in the services moving over the face
of the globe; its soldiers’ wives entraining from
camp to camp, picking up;~ their suitcases and

(Continued on. page 607)

\

l've Seen Their Faces

By NANCY WILSON CASSADY
CharlestonI West Virginia

N THE SPRING of 1943 at a well-attended Junior

I League meeting, Mrs. C. Paul Heavener, the
City Recreation Director, made a moving appeal

for our aid and interest in a fairly new city recrea-
tion project—the Boys’ and Girls’ Club—where
boys and girls of our city could gather under
supervision to enjoy parties, games, classes, dances,
sports, reading, and dramatics in their own club-

rooms.

We all believed the Boys’ and Girls’ Club to be
of vital importance, so the Junior League and the
city became co-fmancers of the project. The Junior
League set apart eleven hundred dollars for a
year’s operational expenses of the club; the city
furnished the rest. The clubrooms are easily acces-
sible to children who need a wholesome place to
spend their leisure time———and are rent-free.

A committee of Junior League members took
over the responsibility of organizing the club and
directing the program. Our professional director,
Miss Lola VVhitecraft, is in charge at all hours.
The boys and girls of the club elect their own of-
licers from their membership, and are largely re-
sponsible for the administration of club policies.
They meet with Miss \Nhitecraft to discuss club
matters, and assume other responsibilities such as
collecting a small admission charge for the dances.
They turn this money back into their club for im-
provements and this year they have paid back the
Junior League for the boys’ basketball and foot-
ball uniforms. Junior League volunteers work in
the well-equipped library and supervise activities
in the big room where there are ping-pong and
billiard tables and large, substantial tables for
blocks, modeling, coloring and painting. There is
also a sandbox, a piano, and last, but not least, the
all-important juke box. Some volunteers conduct
classes in knitting, painting or dancing.

At night it is the teen-agers who take over;
younger children are not admitted because there is
not a separate room for, them, and the older girls
and boys will not come if we mix ages. The juke
box, ping-pong, and billiard tables are the chosen
entertainment of these older girls and boys. Their

590

offices and respon-
sibilities also mean !
agreat deal to them. I,
In the afternoon I“
all ages are wel-
come, and they
flock in immediately
after school by the
dozens -— all sizes,
all temperaments-—

 

é.
‘ 3::
\4

AA

5 q .
. . ,5,- r.’
, . I .
‘ \
a. t
r "‘ .. ' y
 u
. ‘
.
, r
. 0 ' “a, g;
f w   ’2’
1* ' an- “—
,Quw '
'1» ‘9‘
W a .
’ 1
ii-
, _
- f . .
v U

"1~_/ * ' *' 9 '
« 1,. _ ,xr - ~
. . ,, ; AM;
I l f 5
I . )’

     

swarming to the q H J21
play tables. The  " a.
boys hurry to the  - 
boxing room. Miss i _ fr, : .
Whitecraft is be- 3 "

sieged for this and h "

that game or ser-
vice, and questiOns
rain around her.
The volunteer work-
ers are seized
around the waist or
legs, anywhere the
smaller children can
reach. A boy comes
up the stairs fol-
lowed by a dog with his tail straight up in the air.
A little girl carries a thin, but ingratiating, grey kit-
ten. A ten-year-old boy carries a small baby brother
around with an amazing tenderness and occasion-
ally puts him down for a few minutes while he
plays with other ten-year-olds. There is a black-
eyed, twelve-year-old boy, husky, full of person-
ality, and a thin, spunky little girl of about eight
who exudes dry wit with every lisp. (We searched
frantically at library closing time one day for a
book for her about the pilgrims—“pildrims,” she
called them-because she said she had to have it
for school the next day. “Oh Dod,” she remarked
casually when, finally, we had to close without
having discovered the desired treasure.)

 

' Courtesy Berkeley, Calif.
Recreation Department

I have looked through the partly open boxing
room door and have seen the ropes around the
ring dancing, jiggled by the feet of little boys who
were eagerly watching the bout. It gave a singular
appearance of animation, for from where I was I
could not see the little boys, only the jumping ropes.

( Continued on page 614)

RECREATION

Getting Publicity

ECREATION activities
R constitute news and
therefore deserve a
place in newspaper columns.
But unless those entrusted
with the programming and
supervision of recreation
- events are publicity-minded,
unless they develop a “nose
for news,” and unless they
know how to maintain a co-
- operative liaison with edi-
torial rooms, public partici-
pation and attendance figures
-‘will definitely mirror their
journalistic inadequateness.
Publicity is advertising, and it comes gratui-
tously only if it can bear the stamp of legitimate
news. There can be no question that every recre-
ation department, no matter how small, has legiti-
mate news to purvey. It is, therefore, not difficult
to get space in newspapers if recreation executives
make the right approach.

principal difficulty

It’s Well to Know the Editors

First of all, it is good “politics” on the part of
the city recreation director to develop the acquaint-
ance of both the city editor and the sports editor
of each paper. Your chance of getting material
printed is considerably enhanced if these editors
know you and if you have diplomatically solicited
their cooperation.

Secondly, learn the identity of the reporter as-
signed to “cover” recreation news and then assist
him in every way, making it easy for him to gather
the news. This can be done by the preparation of
press releases giving all necessary information
about an event, phoning him the news, or giving
him the information when he visits your office
daily.

Recreation departments located in sizable metro-
politan cities generally do not receive very good
reportorial coverage, therefore they must rely on
press releases which are mailed or otherwise de-
livered to each city desk or sports desk. A press
release is a better medium than telephoning in
news, unless of course you have “spot” or right
up-to-the-minute news which must catch the first
edition.

FEBRUARY 1945

By S. W. MORRIS

 

. "Fortunately." says Mr. Morris," there are
very few recreation departments who do not
recognize the usefulness of publicity. The
handicapping many rec-
reation officials is lack of knowledge on how
to promote free space in the newspapers."

In this article Mr. Morris, who is Execu-
tive Editor of the Writers' Section. Office
of War Information. gives some very practi-

cal suggestions on how to secure space and
what to do with it when you get it!

 

The Press Releases
Generally someone in the
recreation department can
be assigned to the prepara-
tion of these press releases.
He or she should have the
complete information and
should make,the release as
detailed as possible allowing
the newspaper to use every-
thing or to “boil it down” to
whatever size it desires.

It is important to remem-
ber that press releases should
be typed double spaced, and

in the upper left-hand corner should carry a nota-

tion such as the following:
FROM:

City Recreation Department
Randolph 7915

Extension 1120
John Doe

In the upper right-hand corner should appear a
line to indicate whether the release is for immedi-
ate use or for a certain day, thus:

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE or FOR RELEASE
THURSDAY AFTERNOON PAPERS

The press release should be complete so that the
city desk or sports desk will not find it necessary
to call back to clarify some point, or get informa-
tion which had unfortunately been omitted. The
release should answer the questions: WHO, WHEN,
WHY, WHERE, WHAT, and HOW. Try to follow

newspaper style as much as possible. A study of
the columns will prove helpful.

Things to Keep in Mind

When the recreation department has planned a
large city-wide event—for example, a playground
track meet, a kite flying contest or pet show—it
should use advance promotion by issuing stories
daily, providing the papers with some new infor-
mation in each release. It is not compulsory to
write different stories for different papers; carbon
copies will suffice. However, a w0rd of warning
should be dropped here. Never favor one paper
over another. Be fair in distributing your news.
Don’t show partiality to the afternoon papers, for

instance, and thus prejudice the morning dailies
against you.

591

592 GETTING PUBLICITY

Another important fact to remember is that when
the event or contest is over the results should be
given the press immediately. Don’t wait to phone
or send in the results twenty-four or seventy—two
hours later. Always report today’s riews todayl

Newspapers like to print names. Include as
many as possible in your stories. Be sure of your
spelling. Newspapers also are receptive to oddi-
ties, unusual news. Examples: oldest playground
in city, pitcher of no-hit, no—run game, girl who
brings pet'duck to playground daily, etc.

Press releases are not as necessary in small
cities as they are in cities 300,000 or more in
pOpulation, for, example. In all probability the rec-
reation department will be on the “beat” of the
small city reporter who generally covers board of
education news. Typed information will be appre-
ciated, but you can deliver your news vocally to
him.

Whether you are in a big city or in a town you
will Find the sports editor generally cooperative
about using news of sports events. A good pro-
portion of recreation news will generally land in
the sports columns. 80 cultivate the friendship of
the sports staff.

It is an excellent idea to provide both the city
editor and the sports editor with your weekly,
city-wide calendar of recreation events. You will
find them willing to print the schedule.

City recreation directors should insist that all
playground directors cooperate with the press in
reporting their own respective activities, either by
phone or by a typed story sent by mail.

Do not protest if some of the submitted stories

space limitations and news interest.

About Photographs

Be alert for picture ideas. Recreation depart-
ments are advised to remem- I
ber that photographs are ex-
cellent'publicity media. Pic-
tures always attract attention
in newspapers. Get in touch
with the picture editor, or, if
the paper has none, the city
editor, and persuade him to
send a cameraman to an
event.

Any city-wide recreation
. event—a championship mar-

 

Writes a recreation worker: "The maxi-
mum possibilities ot the press have not
been used for real interpretation of the
benefits of recreation. its needs. pur-,
poses. and underlying values. More in-
genuity should be employed to get these
basic reasons before readers of news-
papers. since increasingly people need to
be reminded of the values it they are
going to continue to support recreation
either by contributions or by votes.‘I

bles tournament, for example—is worthy of photo-
graphic coverage. Tip off the city editor or sports
editor as to the time and place and give him some
ideas for potential pictures. In all likelihood a staff
photographer will be assigned to make some shots.

Whether any of the pictures actually see print
will depend to a large degree on the recreation
leaders in charge of the event and on the camera-
man himself. Let him shoot what he wants; never
insist on any particular pose. His experience
qualities him to know the qualities of a good news
or feature picture. Help him by providing caption
material, especially by jotting down the left-to—
right identity of the pe0ple posing.

If the paper should find its space limited be—
cause of a big war story or spot war photographs,
for instance, and your picture is crowded out, it
would be wise to approach the photographer and
induce him to make a print or two for the records
of the recreation department or for display
purposes.

Where two or more newspapers serve a city, it
is recommended that all papers be notified simul-
taneously of a picture possibility. Never tip off
one newspaper exclusively and ignore the others,
as this is possibly fatal to future c00peration.

Sometimes there is an amateur photographer
who is willing to shoot some scenes of playground
activities which a newspaper might accept for pub-
lication. The print should be a 'glossy one and
8 x 10 inches. The amateur cameraman would feel
himself amply repaid if he were to see his picture
in the paper. Reliance on amateur photographers,
of course, is unnecessary if the daily newspapers
maintain their own photographic staffs.

Other Publicity Mediums

Not only will the daily newspaper use your
recreation news, but community weeklies also will
be very receptive to all items concerning activities
going on within their own circulation areas. Play-
ground leaders should visit
the weekly paper, develop the
friendship of the editor, and
submit local playground news,
preferably typed.

Don’t hesitate to be de-
tailed, as these weeklies are
generally hungry for material,
particularly if it includes
names of people in the com-1
munity. A chat with the editor

(Continued on page 611)
RECREATION

Postwar Planning
for

Recreation

"Most of the ten to twelve million men
who are now in the armed forces will have
learned to live together. From one-half
to three-quarters of them will have
traveled to foreign lands. All of them
will have had their horizons broadened

and their vision expanded."

This in itself presents a great challenge
to the communities to which these ser-
vicemen will return. How we at home are
to meet the challenge was the subiect
discussed by Lieut. Comdr. Mathewson at
the annual meeting of the New Jersey

Parlcs and Recreation Association held at
Newark. New Jersey. December l3. I944.

THE MOST IMPORTANT goal toward‘which every

man, woman, and child should be working at
the present time is the provision of essential

supplies for the front line in larger and larger
quantities. On the other hand, men coming back
from the battle areas will want to find that the
people on the home front have kept pace with the

‘ times. Planning for the future development and
expansion of parks and recreational opportunities

for them and their families will be in keeping with
their ideas and will merit and receive their ap—
proval. It is therefore fitting that planning in the
field of recreation should begin now.

In a talk before the American Institute of Park

"Boys and girls who learn to play to-
gether. boys and girls who are good
teammates. will make good neighbors"

By Lieut. Comdr. F. S. MATHEWSON

District Welfare and Recreation Officer
Ninth Naval District

Executives in Indianapolis, I spoke at some length
of the large number of war casualties known as

neuropsychiatrics. Their condition is brought about

in many instances because these men cannot live
and work together with others or follow the rou-
tine of military life. We must prepare the youth
of our country for this routine. We must prepare
them physically, mentally, and sociologically to
accept the sociability and comradeship which go

 

FEBRUARY 1945

Courtesy Lancaster, Pm, Recreation Association

with militarylife.

. Compulsory

military training
if it becomes a
reality will make
this essential.
But in any case
this is the same
friendship and
c o m r a d e s h i p
w h i c h m a k e
normal commu-
nity life worth
living.

The parks and
recreation pro-
gram will prob-
ably have a big-
ger part to play
in this program
in the future than
it has had in the
past. Boys and

S93

594 POSTWAR PLANNING FOR RECREATION

girls who learn to play together, boys and girls
who are good teammates, will make good ship-
mates and good neighbors and good friends.

Life in the Army and Navy has, it is believed,
in many instances created a greater interest in
sports and games. The country as a whole is alive
to the need for a comprehensive health program.
With over 4,000,000 young men found ineligible
for; military service, some definite steps must be
taken to improve the nation’s health. Physical edu-

cation and health programs on the preschool and .

public school levels will play a' big part in anv
health program which is adopted.

A closer check on and correction of teeth, ton-
sils, heart, eyes, and other remedial deficiencies
must be a part of the community health program
of the future. All types of sports, games, and con-
tests as promoted by the community should occupy
an important role in the physical maintenance of
our people. “Physical maintenance,” meaning the
maintaining of our physical bodies to a high effici-
ency level, will be the t0pic of much discussion in
the future.

Today in the army hundreds of thousands of
young men are learning new skills about which
they are most enthusiastic. Schools of every con-
ceivable type are being conducted. Men are get-
ting an equivalent of a college education in a few
months. Fighting in small compact units such as
a tank, a PT boat, or a bomber, has developed a
“team” spirit to a great degree.

Trends to Be Considered

There are so many trends today that have every
indication of affecting the future pattern of society
that it is impossible for one to touch on them all
in a talk such as this in the time that is allotted. I
shall, therefore, refer to only a few of those of
which postwar planning in recreation should take
c0gnizance. Some of the developments of the, past
few years that must be considered in any postwar
planning for recreation are:

The increase in juvenile delinquency, the in-
creased needs for recreational leadership, the ex-
pansion of the industrial recreation program, the
teen-age center, the need of more recreation facili-
ties for older people, the higher age of economic
independence for youth, the Negro and white
racial problem, the establishment of living me-
morials for our war heroes, the growing interest
in state and federal departments of recreation are
only a few of the trends of the time.

In spite of the millions of children in our schools
today and the youth problem with which we are
faced, statistics show that we are becoming a na-
tion of older pe0ple. Serious consideration, more
serious than I have observed, should be given to
types of recreation for older people.

Thousands of men and women who are working
today and are active on the production lines of our

-war plants, will retire after the need for the ex-

panded production has been reached. Churches,
schools, parks, public recreation systems must ex-
pand their programs to provide for these older
people. Greater opportunity for service to public
organizations and to the community must be made
available to them. I know of no finer example of
service to his fellowmen and his community and
state than the life of Albert W. Drake, our late
Treasurer. Upon retirement, he gave unstintedly
of his time and energy to public projects conceived
for the welfare and benefit of his fellowmen. We
need more men like Albert Drake in every com-
munity. ‘

Studies conducted by the University of Michi-
gan show conclusively that for the past several
years the trend toward the age of economic inde-
pendence for our young people is getting higher
and higher. It is becoming increasingly difficult
for young couples to gain a financial position which
enables them to marry and establish homes of their
own. This condition will have an increasing effect
upon society, an effect that is so far-reaching in its
infiuence that it staggers the imagination.

In a year or two there will be four million young
men between the ages of nineteen and twenty-four
looking for jobs. These men have been doing a
man’s work for the past two or three years. They
will be mature in spirit, mind, and body; anxious
to marry, to establish homes, and to get their roots
down into the community. These men, fresh from
military service, will be given the first choice of
such jobs as may be available. They are entitled
to these jobs and all of us hope they will get them.

But what will happen to the millions of other
young men and young women who will be gradu-
ating from high school and college during the next

few years? It is doubtful if the job opportunity of'

the last four years'will exist.

Compulsory military training will not be the
complete answer. Certainly the WPA, CCC, or
N YA is not the answer. There must be something
better than this type of program. Free enterprise
in business, if allowed to function fully, would help
materially. Production alone will not solve the

RECREATION

ROSTWAR PLANNING FOR RECREATION 595

problem; there must be a
ready market for our en-
terprise.

Recreation certainly is
not a substitute for work.
Play will not, and should
not, take the place of a job.
Hobbies, nature study,
arts and crafts, dramatics,
music, and sports, valuable
as they all may be in cre-
ating culture in America,
find their greatest role
avocationally rather than
as a substitute for a voca-
tion. Yet, because of the
harvest which might result
from seed sown by young
people forced into idleness,
we who are concerned with
these problems must plan
now for the future. Remember, it was the youth
of Germany who, discontented with their lot and
with no hope for the future, become the willing
disciples of Hitler and the believers in his doc-
trines. If you think he didn’t do a good job, all
you have to do is to talk with some of the German
prisoners now in America! They are still uncon—
vinced of the folly of their Fuehrer and his
program.

The opportunity for the young men and young
women to engage in wholesome sports, the chance
to occupy the leisure hours in creative activities
may be the salvation of this nation, should it find
itself faced with the type of youth problems I have
suggested.

To meet this need there must be expansion in
all phases of the parks and recreation facilities, as
well as leadership. The cost will be considerable,
but none of us dare say that we, as a people, can-
not afford it. We do not dare not to afford it.‘

The colored and white racial problem is facing
America today as it never has in its history. Rec—
reation is a stabilizer. It can play a great part in
helping America solve this great problem. If we
don’t solve it, God help America!

During the past two years I have seen bad pat-
terns, and I have seen some good patterns designed
to meet this problem. Out of this emergency I
hope we may find the clue to our future progress
in this field of social planning.

As I travel about the thirteen midwestern states
comprising the Ninth Naval District, knowing as

FEBRUARY 1945

 

Courtesy Philadefphia Council of Social Agencies

I do the status of park development on the eastern
seaboard, I am convinced that New Jersey as a
state must accelerate its park and parkway pro-‘
gram if it is to keep pace with its sister states.

Opportunities for New Jersey

There are great possibilities in New Jersey for
bringing the out—of—doors to our citizens, and our
citizens to the out-of—doors. I refer to the expan-
sion of our parkway system, the acquisition of two
or three seashore parks, the further development
of our state, county, and municipal park systems,
the improvement of our streams‘ and rivers as rec-
reational facilities, the halting of pollution, and
the establishment of a national park in the sand
dune area of South Jersey. These and many other
natural resources place New Jersey in a fortunate
position. It should not delay action until it is too
late.

I was glad to hear this afternoon that an appro-
priation has been granted to acquire the Delaware
and Raritan Canal. The initial work is soon to be
started. When it is completed, this canal will pro-
vide a much needed water supply not only for
industrial purposes but for recreation as well. This
project, it is hoped, may be developed all the way
from the intake on the Delaware River to a suit-
able point at or shortly above New Brunswick. As
you well know this association has for several years
advocated and supported this improvement.

' The contact with nature by the masses of people

(Continued on page 606)

The Minneapolis Parade Center

AR TIME is a time of

decision when we

bring in question our
old procedures and attempt
to evaluate them in the light
of developments. At this
very hour we, as a nation,
are bringing in question our
foreign policy. We are ex-
amining our traditional
methods of conducting our
relationships with other na—
tions, and our destiny for
years to come will be deter-
mined by the decisions made
in the next few months.

We are beset on every side by evidences of con-
cern for the postwar world. We learn of a depart-
ment store that has applied for a license to operate
an autogiro delivery service; we read of postwar
homes to be heated by the sun’s rays; of automo-
biles using an improved fuel enabling us to get
forty to fifty miles on a gallon of gasoline.

Some of these things may come to pass, and
some of them may not. We do not know. There
are certain things, however, that we do know. We
know that there are now more than eight million
men and women in the armed forces of the United
States and that this figure is scheduled to be eleven
million by July I; that everyone of these eleven
million will have been subjected to the physical
deveIOpment program of the armed services. We
know that after World War I sports and athletics
enjoyed the biggest boom in history, and there is
every indication that this deveIOpment will be re-
peated on an even larger scale after this war. '

We know that, according to the recent report of
the President’s five—man medical board, in recent
months, draft boards and induction centers have
been forced to reject as unfit forty-six per cent of
all men between eighteen and thirty-eight ; that
among United States males of eighteen years, who
should be at the peak of good health, one out of
four up for induction, is unfit for combat.

We know that there has been an alarming in-
crease in the rate of juvenile delinquency on a nation-
. wide scale, and that though this rate has not in-
creased on a large scale locally, there is much room
for improvement in our treatment of adolescents.

596

In preparing plains tor the future develop-
ment of The Parade in Minneapolis as a
great city-wide athletic, sport. and general
recreation center. many conferences were
held. The final conclusions reached have
the unanimous support of members of the
Recreation Department of the Board of
Park Commissioners. and the
endorsed by the Board of Directors of the
Minneapolis Municipal Athletic Association.

The plans were prepared by Karl Raymondl
Director of Recreation of the Park Depart-
mentI and A. E. Berthe. Park Engineer. We
present extracts from Mr. Raymond's report
to C. A. Bossen. Superintendent of Parks.

 

These considerations are
of utmost importance to all
agencies, public and private,
that have to do with the
public welfare. They are of
broad significance nationally,
but they are of no less im—
portance locally.

Physical fitness and ju-
venile delinquency are not
exclusively the concern of a
department of public recre-
ation, but they are two
factors of great importance
in the determination of de-
partment policy. Along with
factors of local significance which are explained
subsequently, they form the basis of this proposal

for the erection of a city-wide recreation center at
The Parade.

proposal is

The Parade Recreation Center

The Center is divided into four general units:
I. ‘Field house and community center; 2. Indoor
ice hockey rink; 3. Athletic fields; 4. Tennis
courts.

Field House and Modern Community Center.
This unit would include an indoor recreation cen-
ter designed particularly to meet just the situation
which has received so much public attention in
recent months, that of providing a center with a
congenial atmOSphere under tactful supervision for
the social activities of adolescents. In it would be
included a combination assembly hall with stage
and gymnasium, a lounge for informal reading and
quiet games, an arts and crafts work shop, two or
more club or committee rooms, a social room, a
snack bar, a kitchen, and a service and storage
room.

Conveniently located to the community center
proper would be the facilities for indoor sports
such as bowling alleys, rifle range, archery range,
shuffieboard courts, and golf driving nets.

Such a center would be unique in that it would
provide not only a social center for the exclusive
use of adolescents, but also a headquarters for
little theater groups, arts and crafts projects, and
social and hobby clubs which could be promoted
by our Recreation Division on a city-wide basis on

RECREATION

 
    

  
     

Pmomsmno Fmgmmpmmm
IIQIIEGIQIIEMIHQN GENDER
'IIFIIHUE NPAIRAIIDIIE.

AVL.

~UQLL

FEBRUARY 1945

SUGGl-le'D bY THE- RECREATION DIVISION

 

DAD KING
INCA”

FOR A pOST“WAl-2 pROJE-CT

 

THE MINNEAPOLIS PARADE CENTER

  
     

 
 
  
    
 
 
  

 
 
 

  

 

     
   
 
  

   

,.:
an:
08':
33-» ¢" .,
  z n
m‘bé " ; 3
£2?” a d 3 3
.— on :u 4 1". at
zna- V o- u
| = v ‘I o
n "a - ¢
«8.»; J- ‘.
“#4 i:
E“ u .
5’: ‘ * -
f n  2 a .
zfcz {w
88'; 4
3.5 5"
2' a G
113‘: _ .
II- c o I" f
o 3 E ‘I :
> L
O n 5 c
3r *
«d
 u .1
U (ill ’2
H 5
................. .. :f 3‘
i . 7:» K _. v. ‘3 I  3
. J.
‘i .ira'QEr/‘F'WE'G'G'a s©§'@'i! .
i . ‘5-5'":‘T_—T—-f-"- O a
c-  1» w— amir g .
 1 . 1   E Q
‘ "bl __ 'II ;I g
. . I. z

 

 

1500 SI“!

 

Bl HOCllY 9|!!!

SOFT

bALL 
a. A
'H v ‘9
. @253:
‘I

 
   
 

: I50 CAR! 5

I944

  
 

APRIL 4

  

Courtesy Park: and Recreation

Q

There will be

munify cenfer. an indoor ice hockey rink. afh-
adequafe prowsnon for Hue parking of cars.

lefic Fields. and fennis coun‘s.

'uL—l
042E
0' o
o

0.3”
2-2}:
022'”
a,—
'Og_a>
[a In
5'03
«:00
n.c..c

O

In {he posfwar plans for M
Hs principal feafures a field

The Recrea+ion Cem‘er a? The

97

593 THE MINNEAPOLIS PARADE CENTER

 

Courtesy M in neapoli: Board of Park C ommzsswner:

a more comprehensive

under this unit. The football field would have
seating capacity for from 15,000 to 20,000, a
press box, a refectory stand, and other facili-
ties. The baseball field would have stands with
a canopy and a seating capacity of 2,500 per-
sons, a press box and a refectory stand.

These three fields all adjacent to The Parade I
center building would be an enlargement of l
and improvement over the present facilities for
these sports at The Parade now. Under the
proposed plan they would provide a better :
method of crowd—handling, better accommo—
dations for spectators, and a larger seating
capac1ty.

Tennis Courts. The arrangement of the ten—
nis courts would be substantially the same as
it is now. It is planned to have twelve hard-
surfaced courts arranged in groups of two,
with permanent seating for a minimum of 500

scale than is possible at
present. These facilities
would be contained in the
wing adjoining the field
house.

The field house proper
containing an arena with
sufficient floor space for
three basketball courts and
permanent seating for 4,000
persons, will fulfill the

Mr. Raymond points out in his report that
the cost of the proposed recreation center
would be $l.098.l l7.60. and he compares this
with the expenditure of $|.989.622 by the
University of Minnesota for the Coffman Me-
morial which serves a student body of l5.000.

"If it is to the interests of society to pro-
vide equipment and facilities for sports and
recreation for individuals through University
age. then it must be equall important to pro-
vide such facilities not any for the younger
generaton but also for men and women after
their formal education has been completed."

would be lighted for night
play, among which would
be the exhibition courts.

spectators. Four courts i

The present tennis build-
ing would be eliminated
and its features would be
incorporated into The
Parade center building.
Maintenance cost would

be lessened through hard-
surfacing.

greatest need —— facilities

for conducting a compre-
hensive indoor program in sports and athletics.

It will solve our problem as far as indoor facilities
are concerned, and very likely will prove very
pOpular for the staging of community events.

Indoor Ice Hockey Rink. This unit would contain
an arena approximately 85’ x 200’, the official size
for ice hockey, a seating area for 2,500 persons, a
lobby and ticket office, a warming room with
refectory stand, and an artificial ice plant.

An enclosed rink where temperatures and ice
conditions can be controlled will serve as many
teams as four outdoor rinks which are perfectly
maintained. It should not be overlooked that such
a structure would also lend itself to general skating
and the instruction of figure skating, and would

provide opportunity for an enlarged program of

league hockey. '

Athletic Fields. Separate lighted fields for foot-
ball, baseball and softball are contemplated

(Continued on page 614)

 

RECREATION l

The Pleasures of Reading i

. THINK ONE_ of the great-
I est joys of reading for fun
is now and then to run
across a new book which
seems to be especially written
for one’s own self. In reading
Ferris Greenslet’s Under the
Bridge, I came across a ref—
erence to Lord Grey of Fal-
lodon and a quotation from his address on Recrea-
tion to students at Harvard, about 1920. I went
down to the library to find and read this whole
address, and found that it was not only separately
published, but was a part of a larger work, The
Fallodon Papers, published by Houghton Mifflin
in 1926. I have been delighted with these essays
on the pleasures of reading, the pleasures of ob-
serving birds and outdoor nature in general, the
pleasures of fly-fishing, and of Wordsworth’s Pre—
lude—Wordsworth is the favorite poet of Lord
Grey. Every one loves confirmation of his own
ideas and efforts in a given field. For over fifteen
years I have been preaching the gospel of recrea-
tion as a means of refreshing people who have to
work hard and seriously, so as to send them back
to their jobs invigorated in spirit, mind, and body.
In fact, running through my series of articles is
something of this phi1030phy of enjoyment, and
Lord Grey, in his essay on recreation, states prac-
tically every main point that I have been trying to
make; hence, I have annexed his volume as one of
my main resources.

First of all, I should like to praise the calm,
happy spirit of repose which runs through these
essays. Lord Grey, in World War I, is compara-
ble to Anthony Eden, and to some extent Winston
Churchill, in World War II. He liberally gave his
time, his health, and his strength, to the service of
his country; and like Milton, he even gave his
eyes. These essays were not written at all. ‘They
are talks which he made after he was too blind to
write. They were taken down by a stenographer
and corrected verbally by Lord Grey when they
were read to him. And yet, there is not a single
note of unhappiness; he is perfectly matter—of-fact
about hardships and tragedies that strike all of us
in life. But, and this is his main point, there are
spiritual, mental, and physical resources of en joy-

FEBRUARY 1945

By R'. B. HOUSE

This is one of a series of articles on
"Faith, Work and Play in Wartime" by
the Dean of Administration of the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. It is re-
printed by permission from the Novem-
ber I944 issue of Popular Government.

ment in which every man, no
matter how trying his condi-
tion may be, can find strength.

“Recreation” is Lord Grey’s
name for what I have been
calling “enjoyment.” Recrea-
tion, in Lord Grey’s thought,
is not the most important
thing in life at all. He lists

the following elements of a good life in the order
of their importance: (1) a moral basis for action;
(2) a reasonable share of domestic happiness;
(3) a job of work which gives a man a stake in his
day and generation; (4) a reasonable amount of
leisure. And then his entire theme is the wise use
of this leisure. _

Lord Grey advises every person to try games
enough to find out what sort of games he may
enjoy. In the second place, he advises everyone
to keep alert to sportsmanship. He pays a tribute
to golf, but says that he never made a golfer and
never would. His game is tennis; but over and
above his enjoyment of tennis is his passionate
enjoyment of fly-fishing in running streams. His
essay on this sport is truly enthusiastic and artis-
tically done. I am not a fly-fisherman myself, but
it is a joy to hear a man talk about his own hobby
in such convincing terms. Lord Grey says that a
hobby of this sort must be one which the sports-
man has loved for a long time and knows enough
about to enjoy it in anticipation and in reminis-
cence when he cannot be actually employed in the
sport itself.

After some practical advice on games and sport,
Lord Grey recommends gardening as a recreation
which increases in richness and satisfaction the
longer one engages in it. And gardening, along
with fishing, helps to introduce us to one of Lord

‘ Grey's main themes, Nature, which he talks about

under the idea of appreciating the beauty of the
world. He says that our appreciation of this beauty
may amount to no‘ more than seeing what sort of
weather it is day by day. He is a country man
and says that, at least, it is always some sort of a
day, in the country. But he, himself, has not
stopped there, and his book is full of wise and
poetic, and at the same time, acutely accurate

( Continued on paye 613)

S99

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation '

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

’ ’AQ UA TI C Plants of the United States,” by
Walter Conrad Muenscher. Comstock Pub—

Iishing Company. 374 pp. Illustrated. $5.00.

“Bellamy, Edward. It was more than seventy
years ago that Edward Bellamy was writing about
nature recreation, according to Dr. Arthur Morgan
in his Biography of Edward Bellamy published by
the Columbia University Press. The biography,
which Dr. Morgan started as a hobby, proved so
fascinating that the brief story grew into a volume.

Bellamy was a true nature recreationist. He
tried to get others to have the
same fun which, he pointed out
in one of his editorials, Horace
Greeley wished that he might
have had.

“Horace Greeley often ex—
pressed a desire to go,,a{ishing,
but he never found time; and
now he is dead and will never
have another chance. Had he
taken a little pleasant piscatorial I
exercise every year, he might have been alive still.
All work and no play was too much even forrhis
strong constitution, and the great brain has stopped
working prematurely. . . .

“Let those who would wish to avoid Mr.
Greeley’s fate make time to go afishing. . . . It will
do them a world of good, and probably not hurt
the fishes much. It does not make much differ-
ence how or where people go afishing, if they will
only go.”— From “Go Afishing,” Springfield
Union, May 20, 1873.

California. “Adventure in Scenery,” by Daniel
F. Willard. Jaques Cottell Press. 438 pp. Illus-
trated. $3.75. Geology and climate for the gen—
eral reader.

Earth Science. “Enough and to Spare,” by
Kirtley F. Mather. Harper. 186 pp. Illustrated.
$2.00.

Forest, Memorial. The Goodwill Conservation
Club, Madison, Indiana, has purchased ninety—
seven acres of land in Jefferson County for a rec-
reation area. It will be named Camp Riehl—Cran-

600

"Whether there is anything more in
nature than we ourselves put into
it in the way of beautiful and grand
impressions is very much like the
question whether the statue is in
the marble before the chisel of the
sculptor has formed and revealed
it."—Edward Bellamy in Spring-
field Union, August 20. IBM.

ford in honor of the Club’s first two presidents.
Special markers will be placed at the base of cer—
tain trees in memory of those who gave their lives
for their country

Insect Collect-ions. “How to Make Insect Col-
lections.” Extension Bulletin, Michigan State
College, March 1944.

Insect Life. Merit Badge Pamphlet, published
by the Boy. Scouts of America. $.25.

Nature Education in the Sierra Mountains.
“One Day on Beetle Rock,” by Sally Garrigher.
Alfred A. Knopf. 224 pp. $2.75.
An accurate nature book inter-
estingly written.

“Nataralist’s Lexicon,” com—
piled by Robert S. Woods.

Abbey Garden Press. 282 pp.
$2.75.

Plants. “Travelers All,” by
Irma E. Webber. W. R. Scott.
$1.25. Basic facts for children
about how plants go places.

Reptiles and Amphibians “They Hop and
Crawl,” by Percy A. Morris. Jaques Cottell

Press, 253 pp. $3.50.

School Forests, Jamestown, N. Y. The first
school forest at Jamestown was started in 1927
with 250 acres in the township of Poland. It is
now producing revenue and, better still, it is a
nature study laboratory in which the community
takes pride.

“Seashore Parade,” by Muriel L. Guberlet.
Jaques Cottell Press. 200 pp. Colored plates.

$1.75.

Snakes. “Poisonous Snakes of the Eastern
United States,” published by the North Carolina
State Museum, Raleigh, N. C. $.10.

What Is Important? One of the most impor—
tant things for every child to discover is that it is
fun to explore the world about him. This dis-
covery he can keep with him always.

RECREATION

’

WORLD AT PLAY

PLANS for the erec-
tion of a large munici-
pal opera stage in
Swope Park have been
authorized by the Kansas City Park Board. The
proposed stage, which will be used for both Opera
and orchestra prOgrams will contain ample scenery
storage space and underground dressing rooms.
Amplifiers will be arranged to carry the music over
an area that will accommodate an audience of at
least 10,000.

According to an article in Musical America,

Kansas City Plans
Outdoor Stage

‘ “The high success of the present summer orches-

tra and band concerts has encouraged the park
board to look forward to successful musical presen-
tation of wider appeal and higher value. Coopera-
tion with St. Louis in the presentation of operas

has been assured and Kansas City itself has much '

splendid talent to draw upon.”

The Kansas City Civic Orchestra and Munici-
pal Band gave nightly concerts this summer which
attracted crowds of 2,000 to 4,000 listeners.

SEATTLE, Washington,
has a club for Chinese
servicemen which pro-
vides many forms of
recreation, has a large lounge, library, game room,
snack bar, check room, and information center. It
is sponsored by the Chinese civilian population of
Seattle to provide hospitality for their own race
serving under the United States flag.

A Chinese Service
Club

As SEPTEMBER turned
long summer after-
noons imperceptibly
into long winter evenings, most recreation pro-
grams moved indoors. Not Fresrio, California!
That well-known climate meant September and
October evenings still warm enough to lure young-
sters and oldsters into the open for play when
supper was over. The playgrounds, shining cheer-
fully under night lights, were ready for them, and
in spite of a manpower shortage that made the
going tough at times, the playing fields have been
alive with old and young, servicemen and civilians,

The Lights of Fresno

' going about their happy (and lawful) occasions.

FEBRUARY 1945

While Children Play

Touch football has been the most p0pular game,
but others -— softball, crack-the-whip, basketball,
tennis—have kept pleasantly occupied many boys
and girls who might otherwise have been “roam-
ing ’round” the streets. '

ON DECEMBER 6, 7,
and 8, 1944, the Mu"-
nicipal Opera Com-
pany of Allentown,
Pennsylvania, sponsored by the Allentown Recre-
ation Commission, presented the Opera, “Roberta.”

The Company is now in its sixteenth season and
said to be the oldest opera company in the United
States sponsored by a recreation commission. In
a summary of operatic activity in the United
States, prepared for the National Opera Associa-
tion by the publication director of the Metropolitan
Opera Guild of New York in 1941, the Allentown
Opera Company was listed as the sixth oldest
opera company in the United States.

Allentown’s Municipal
Opera Company

. TAMPA, Florida,

“Moms” are finding

‘ new and stimulating
experiences when they take their youngsters to
spend the morning at the Hyde Park city play-
ground. While the mothers keep one ear out for
that yell that is unmistakably junior in difficulties
they are learning to make things for beauty and use
from materials native to the Florida scene. The
group’s teacher finds enthusiasm running high
among her pupils and skills improving among them
by leaps and bounds.

MEMBERS of nine
camera clubs of the
San Francisco Bay
Area Council of Camera Clubs put their best
prints on exhibition in December. The pictures
had previously been entered in an Inter-Club Com-
petition— a sort of round robin tournament. Each
club entered ten prints in the elimination contests
and these were scored by judges chosen by the clubs
concerned. A preview of all the prints was held
for club members in November.

Photography Exhibit

601’

With the

A RMY
N A V Y
MARINES

DIAMOND
“ PRODUCTS

on tanks and in airplanes

Diamond Producrs are on every lighting
front; in every branch of the service.
The Diamond Calk Horseshoe Com-
pany. on the war front as well as on the
home front, will continue to do its part
until this tremendous struggle is brought
to a successful conclusion. "

DIAMOND (ALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave... Duluth. Minn.

 

A Community Orchestra—The Recreation
Commission of Danville, Virginia, is well em-
barked on a new project. From nearby counties
in Virginia and North Carolina, as well as from
the city itself, people have brought their musical
instruments to form a community orchestra. The
amateur musicians practice one night each week
under the direction of a trained and experienced
musician who has volunteered to train the group.
This project was dreamed up last winter in order
to offer local musicians a chance to play with an

organized unit, and to provide music for the pub-
lic’s pleasure.

New Studies Under Way—The Department
of Social Work Interpretation of the Russell Sage
Foundation, I 30 East 22nd Street, New York 10,
N. Y., announces the initiation of two new studies
-—one dealing with public relations policies and
practices of the Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion; the other with case work interpretation as
practiced by agencies affiliated with the Welfare

Federation of Cleveland. Two of the studies -

in this series have been published and may be
secured from the Foundation. The first, A Study

WORLD AT PLAY

in Public Relations (1943), is based upon the pub-
lic relations program of the Pennsylvania Depart—
ment of public Assistance. The second, Building
(1 Popular Movement (1944), has to do with the
public relations of the Boy Scouts of America.

Jungle Gyms—The MacGregor-Goldsmith
Sports Bulletin for October 1944, tells a tale of
G.I.Joe’s recreation activities in the jungles of a
South Pacific island. “Take the Fourteenth
Evacuation Hospital, for example,” says the Bul-
letin. “Here the completion of, the hOSpital was
followed by the building of a two-block square
athletic field. A powerful ‘cat’ was called into
service. Through a towering cluster of trees it
helped to clear and level a surface that looked like
nothing more than a large parking lot. But in this
clearing a softball diamond was laid out. Tree
trunks and bamboo poles were used as supports in
making volley ball, basketball, and badminton
courts. Bamboo strips joined vertically by strings
provided nets. A boxing ring, theater stage for
plays, and screen for movies were set up. Teams
were organized to compete in various sports. A

field day was held and prizes were awarded to
winners.”

Silver Anniversary—Twenty-iive years of
continuous service is the record of a community
center in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The Douglass l
Community Association is celebrating its Silver
Anniversary in 1944. There will be a special pro—
gram commemorating the special occasion. The
main event of the year is a membership campaign,
its goal 800 members. The Douglass Community
Association’s idea of recognizing a birthday is to ‘
spread its service to more people.

ago, when attendance of the barn dance group at
Palmer Park, Chicago, dropped to about thirty
people, it was decided to reorganize the group on a '
club basis. Music was supplied by records and by

a group of musicians who also enjoyed dancing.
Usually there were at least three instruments to I
help provide music. No one was paid for his ser-
vices so if a musician wanted to dance, he did just
that! Food consisted of sandwiches and drinks.
One Saturday night, at the regular monthly dance
held outdoors during the summer, hot dogs were
grilled over the portable charcoal grills. It was not
long before attendance reached an average of
seventy.

Making Barn Dances P0pular—Over a year 1

' RECREATION

(VOLT ATHLETIC BALLS HAVE A LONG LIFE)

 

 That tough cover adds scores of playing hours to every Voit Ball.
 Scull-proof...practically puncture-proof. . .it's a natural for rough- "'
surfaced playing Fields. No wonder it's top choice with the Services
—and on the home front. You'll agree—tor longest wear, it's Voit

Basketballs, Footballs, Soccer Balls, Volley Balls, soft Balls, Water
Polo Balls, and Home Plates.

   

 

The Best Dealers
are Voit Dealers ,-
O  SYNTHETIC-RUBBER-COVERED
“:1: a":  «95"; '- Migéaé‘d, 9'v "'5'. ’i.':-_' is; 1
O ' ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
| u y 3 o N D 5 R E G u {A R ly Mfgd. by' W. .l. Voit Rubber Corp..

I600 E. 25th St" Los Angeles' 11. Calif.

Chicago Branch 180 No. Wacker Drive Zone 6

FEBRUARY 1945 603

604 WORLD AT IfLAY

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

As a Means of Ke‘eping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the administration aspecrs of

l
I
MUNICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION i
I

their department and its correlation with orher departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and

reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

" The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each
lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfactory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently wrote, "Trutbfully I cannot remember any
agar: on my part which lac: paid. ojjr in dividend: .ro quickly.” |

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
I3I3 East 60th Street. Chicago 37, Illinois I

Decatur, Illinois, Gives Its Report—The sixth
Annual Report (May 1, 1943 - April 30, 1944) of
the Playground and Recreation Board of Decatur,
Illinois, states that the recreation program was
operated in thirty—two locations in all sections of
the city with an attendance of 616,658 participants
and spectators, and with 35,000 different individ—
uals taking part. There were 540 organized rec-
reation groups participating in the program and
using the facilities.

Decatur’s recreation system is supported by tax
funds, and recreation tax referendums were passed
in October 1936 and July 1942. The first tax
money  of one mill) for recreation was received
in May 1938 and an increase of 2/3 of one mill in
May 1943. The tax levy for recreation is now 11/3
mills. Local city funds spent for recreation have
increased from approximately $21,000 in 1938-

I939 to $47,421.82 in 1943-1944.

The Problem of Safety—The Statistical Bul-
letin of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
for November 1944 points to the alarming num-
ber of fatal firearm accidents among children. In
- 1942, the last year for which official figures are
available, gunshot wounds killed 671 boys and girls
under fifteen years of age, 94 of whom were under
five years old, nine of them being infants.

In 1942 or 1943, 137 children insured in the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company died from
accidental gunshot wounds. The large majority of
these accidents, about two-thirds, occurred in their
own homes, but there was a sizable percentage
who were mortally wounded in the homes of young '
playma/tes and relatives.

In addition to the children killed in homes, 49
youngsters in this insurance experience were acci-
dentally shot while playing on the street, in open
lots, in public buildings, and other places. A num-
ber of teen-age boys received their fatal injuries
while hunting or engaged in target practice.

Statistics such as these present an argument for
playgrounds.

Nature Display Arouses Interest—The effort
to interest children at Palmer Park, Chicago, in
nature study activities was a “Hep” until a nature
display case containing nature exhibit material was
set up in the lobby outside the games room. The
display was changed every ten days to make sure
that all the material exhibited was seasonable. It
gradually began to attract attention, and questions
were asked about it. Before long interest grew to
the point where a few children requested a trip.
Gradually others joined, and soon a sizable Junior
Naturalists’ Club was formed.

RECREATION '

' * REEVE 'B. HARRIS ' 505

. Reeve B. Harris

” EEVE B. HARRIS. Supervisor of Recreation in
R .Passaic for 22 years, died January 2nd.” He
was one of the Old Guard in New Jersey, a gentle,
but salty and humorous tonic to his town and to all

who knew him.
l He never achieved his ideal in recreation. He
never would have, as he was never satislied. We
I do not know whether he had ideas on immortality.
He achieved it, however, in a degree many could
envy, through the selfless devotion of himself to
the full life of his community. “His soul goes
marching on.” Passaic is a better place to live in
because of Reeve Harris. A richness has been
added to the lives of those he touched, which like
a pebble dropped in a pond_will be felt in ever

. enlargening circles.

 

 

Strictly Utilitarian—Was there ever a teen-
age youngster who didn’t like to carve “hearts and
flowers” on telephone poles or wooden fences or
porch railings? It’s practically reflex action. La
Grange, Illinois youth center, “The Corral Club,”
has taken this fact of teen-age life into considera-

| tion. The club’s big dance Hoor is surrounded by a
railing of telephone poles which may be whittled
or carved or hacked at will and nobody minds.
The Corral Club began life as a garage. It has
now a membership of 1,700 who pay annual dues
of $3.00. The young people have their own board
of governors who “run things” under the weather
eye of the Recreation Department.

San Francisco Conducts Busy Program—
This past summer the Recreation Commission of
San Francisco, California, opened every school-
yard in the city. Every gymnasium was open dur-
ing the evening as well as the regular playgrounds.
Many teen-age centers were also opened with sev-
eral more on the schedule as soon as buildings can
be obtained. The Commission is supervising the
recreation in all of the housing projects, both those
for low income families and the defense workers’
units. A several million dollar construction pro-

gram for postwar work has been submitted to the
Mayor by the Commission.

A Picnic Area in Los Angeles—To stimulate
interest in the old-time family picnic, the Los
Angeles Department of Playground and Recrea-

- tion last summer developed a grass picnic area

FEBRUARY 1945

      

[:39
. ' -"-:
... . . .u — ""'}hv'.\?§2‘”' ' 

LOOK AHEAD
WITH SPORTS

'It isn’t only in training men for fighting
that sports have proved a priceless contribur
tion to our war eEort. They are also very
important to those who have been in the front
lines—as a means of relaxing nerves-—bring-
ing fun and relaxation behind the lines. And
sports will play their most important role
after the war is over for these men—when
they need to be “tapered off” from war to
peace—need exercise to ease war’s strains and
to restore them to peacetime normal again.
For all these war uses Sports equipment is
today largely regarded as war equipment and
rightly so. Most of Wilson equipment is going
to our armed forces today—so take care of
what you have. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York, and other leading cities.

 

MEMBER: The
athletic institute,
a non-profit or—
ganization dedi—

cated to the ad—3
vancement of
national physical
fitness.

 

Wilson Athletic Goods Mfg. (20., inc.
Chicago Plant

Let’s all boost the “Living War Memorials”
campaign to commemorate our war heares.

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

606 THE WORK OF OUR HEAD AND OUR HAND

at Cabrillo Beach. The area is equipped with
picnic tables, horseshoe courts, and a softball dia-
mond. Special equipment is obtainable for staging
three-legged races, sack races, and tug-of—war.
The picnic area is also available on permit for
church, civic, and other groups. Cabrillo Beach,
with its many facilities and the Marine Museum
with its thousands of exhibits, offer the family not
only entertainment but scientilic knowledge.

For the Older Folks of Your Community——
The following suggestions come from a bulletin
issued by the Division of Recreation, Chicago Park
District:

Early Community Room. During certain sea-
sons a club room can be Spared for a week or less.
Publicize the items of furniture and gadgets neces-
sary to portray a typical living room; of the early
days of the community. A small committee of your
oldest and most capable residents will decide on
the most appropriate clock. for example, curtains
or tables offered, decide on arrangements, and act
as hosts on a certain day, wearing apparel to fit
the occasion. Women’s clubs or groups are glad
to serve on other days. Invite schools by classes
to hear the history of their community and have
itéms in the room explained.

Postwar Planning for Recreation
(Continued from page 595)

must be on a larger scale in the future than it has
been in the past fifty years. Boys and girls, men
and women must be exposed to the outeof-doors.
They must know the trees, the streams, the val-
leys, and the hills. This can be accomplished in
this day and age, in metropolitan areas, only
through the medium of parks, parkways, and res-
ervations.

It is being said that without a full knowledge of
nature by the people there can be no real culture in
America. We, as park and recreation planners,
have a great responsibility in the development of
this culture. The war has shown us many things,
one of which is that recreation is not a side show.
It is part of the main event. The importance at-
tached to this phase of military life by the Army
and the Navy has proven this to be the case. We
must proceed upon this as a fundamental and valid

assumption in thinking and planning for recrea-
tion after th/e war.

The Work of Our Head and Our Hand

(Continued from page 582)
to enrich the curriculum of the 'schools by relating
arts and crafts to social studies, music, nature
study, science, and other studies. The emphasis
should be upon originating, investigating, experi—
menting.

A growing collection of books and reference
material is being circulated among teachers and
craftsmen in the state. In distributing this illusj
trative material, emphasis is given to color, design,
and styling; to developing discrimination and good
taste; and to building up a tolerance for and recog-
nition of what is good in both modern and tradi-
tional design.

The Arts and Crafts Service in the State De-
partment of Education is concerned with a well-
rounded educational program for children, young
people, and adults. This program includes improv—
ing design and standards of workmanship, en-
couraging greater participation in the creative arts
by children and young pe0ple in the schools, and
stimulating the interest of the public in arts and
crafts through bulletins, talks, broadcasts, confer-
ences, exhibitions. The Service aims, too, to help
men and women help themselves; to assist men
and women to gain a small supplementary cash
income from part-time craft work; to guide men
and women so that they may achieve much of the
genuine enjoyment and pride in accomplishment
that comes from meeting a high standard in crea—
tive 'handwork.

A Serviceman Considers Memorials
(Continued from page 580)

pointed to sponsor a war memorial. The most
popular suggestion is for a public auditorium with
post rooms for veterans and space for public offices.

The American Commission for Living War
Memorials has prepared a brochure to meet the
growing number of requests for information about
suitable monuments to the men and women who
have fought the battles of World War II. Me—
morials That Live is a picture—story of the things
communities can create to the memory of their
sons and daughters in the armed services. The
brochure has approximately 200 suggestions for
memorials that “will contribute to the character,
to the health, and to the welfare of our American '
citizenship.” Inquiries to the Commission should
be addressed to George M. Trautman, Chairman, I
30 East Broad Street, Columbus 15, Ohio.

RECREATION ‘

RECREATION: NEW OBLIG.-l'1‘IONS-—NEW APPROACHES 607

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEYS "IN ACTION" IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
' N. C. C. S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two—Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL—

LATION COST!) is proving to be one of the leading game—units. now
included in RECREATION PROGRAMS all over the country. Because at
its E-Z set—up features. solid construction and convenient size, the
alley is perfectly adapted for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send for complete information and descriptive
literature including many, many letters praising the good, clean com-
petitive fun and relaxation derived from Two—Way Bowling. .

the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLINO CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828

0 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

Recreation: New Obligations—
New Approaches

(Continued from page 589)

their babies and putting them down somewhere
else; its war workers following the war job, leav-
ing friends behind, breaking ties with church and
club, moving out of familiar places. ’

After the war Americans will have to be intro-
duced to themselves again and introduced to their
neighbors. They will have to be given the chance
to move out of the hectic war routines and find
the joy of doing the uncompelled things they have
wanted to do but had no time to do There will be
a great emptiness and a great hunger in America;
and the recreation leaders will have to be on hand
to do their job of filling the emptiness and satis-
fying the hunger. Communities, through their

FEBRUARY 1945

. . Mail

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
l|4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlt

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

N 41223 .............................................................. ..
Addres: ............................................................ ..

City ..................................... .. State ............... ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

 

social agencies, will likewise have to be on hand to
do their job. For every uprooted person will be
potentially a distorted person. And every poten-
tially distorted person will have to be given the
chance to build once again the full circle of his

life activities.

All over America the belief must be strong that
the recreative way is the saving way. But also, all
over America, the belief must be strong that the
coming together of our pe0ple, both in seriousness
and play, is basic to a sound democracy. We must
recapture something of the folk Spirit of our earlier
days. Not the isolated individual but the partici-
pating individual must be the pattern of our free
soc1ety.

.If we believe these things strongly enough, we

may move forward to a new age of cultural free-
dom in America.

608

 

 

 

you Gan Use

THE JOURNAL 0! HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on: ,

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS
0 SPORTS AND GAMES

0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human

beings. $2.50 per year.
Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
I20] Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

._ _....—._— _..._—n—_.._—

 

 

'Hi, Neighbor! '

BELIEVING that a realistic approach to the prob-
lems of permanent world peace depends upon

the extent to which individual citizens of each-

country have the opportunity to play an active role
in the building of a “world neighbor” point of
view, Camp Fire" Girls are sponsoring a nation-
wide project for 1945 in which girls of seven to
seventeen can participate.

“Hi, Neighbor 1” is the theme. In carrying out
the project on the local level, the girls will be en-
couraged to explore their neighborhoods, survey
their communities, and formulate plans for relat-
ing their community needs and interests to the
larger horizons of national and world communi-
ties. Included among the suggestions for activities
in the neighborhood are neighborhood service and
neighborhood fun.

The program, designed to create better under-
standing among the girls of America and neighbors
of other racial or national origins living in their
communities, should have a strong appeal at just
this time.

A Time to Remember

This year the National Conference of Christians
and Jews has designated February 18 to 25 as a
time of rededication to those principles of toler-
ance expressed in the slogan, “To bigotry no
sanction.” Schools, churches, community organiza-
tions, men of good will, plan to take part in this
year’s observance of Brotherhood Week.

RECREATION AND RURAL“ COMMUNITIES

Recreation and Rural
Communities

RECREATION should be localized and creative, and
it should be the responsibility of the c00pera-
tive efforts of the various community groups as

well as the home.

Every community should provide recreation
facilities and activities for all of its population on
a non-commercial basis.

There is frequently a tendency on the part of
youth to resent the regulation of the recreation fa-
cilities by older persons, and of older persons to
fail to appreciate the needs of the youngsters.
Authorities in charge of public and semi-private
facilities such as town halls, schools, and buildings
belonging to civic or fraternal organizations. are
too frequently reluctant to grant permission to use
them to young people’s groups, and, finding it dif-
ficult to guarantee relatively high rental, the young
pe0ple have patronized commercial dance halls in
place of community dances and the movies of
nearby towns and cities have taken the place of

hometown theatricals.

In this commercial age, private interests will
seize every opportunity to capitalize upon the uni-
versal need for recreation. Urban infiuences will
promote an ever-increasing demand for certain
forms of recreation that have been controlled
largely by commercial interests. This situation
emphasizes the need for community action in fur-
nishing recreation facilities for young pe0ple.

In planning a long—time program, it is necessary
to know what commercialized facilities now exist,
what interests they serve, and how effectively, and
the extent to which rural people are willing to
allow the introduction of new commercial recrea-
tion activities.

Confusion in dealing with the many problems
facing every community as a consequence of the
war will result in poor planning and ineffective
results. It is essential that every community should
avoid such a situation, and that to that end steps
should be taken to meet the problems frankly and
with the determination to advance the welfare of
the community. The committee has considered some
of the fundamental needs of the social community
and the means by which they may be advanced.
The report, therefore, is an attempt to help to gain
these ends by offering suggestions and by enumer-
ating standards and objectives.

RECREATION

“AMERICANA” 609.

In this way, communities may review their re-
sources in people, organization, spirit, and ma-
terial wealth. The problems are immediate and
future. The social structure iS’already in exist—
ence. Knowledge, understanding and community
purpose in action can deal successfully with these
problems that are so immediate and so important
to the maintenance of the American social commu-
nity and to the attainment of a higher, a more
helpful, and an improved welfare.—— From Farm
and Rural Life After the War, Proceedings of the
Twenty—fourth American Country Life Confer-

ence, 1944.

"Americana"

f’ T WOULD BE SWELL to have a musical review,”
I remarked a high school boy at one of our
Friday night dances in Brattleboro. '

We agreed with him and suggested that he and
his friends get the “crowd” interested. The idea
evidently took, and very soon teen-age boys and
girls started coming to the ofi‘ice asking. to be in
the show. It was not long before a general plan
for the production was drawn up by the adult
leaders.

We were very fortunate in obtaining the volun-
teer services of a competent dancing teacher, to-
gether with the assistance of local people inter-
ested in make-up, costuming, and music. The
material for the costumes was purchased in bolts,
cut out at the community center, and then made up
by the individual who was to wear the particular
costume. Some of them were well made; some
were merely basted, but all looked well on the
stage.

Most of the productions given in Brattleboro in
the past had been of the minstrel show type. Prac-
tically none of the teen-agers had any idea of
pantomime or good dramatic skits, and it was
something of a struggle to steer them away from
slapstick comedies and make them realize that
stage presence,-costuming, and voice were impor-
tant to the success of a production.

Since there had never been any dramatics at the
community center, there was nothing in the way
of equipment, lights or stage settings, and every-
thing had to be purchased and made. Footlights
were constructed by a group of teen-age boys
under the supervision of a licensed electrician, and
other lighting equipment was. borrowed from de-
partment stores and electricians. A backdrop and

FEBRUARY 1945

H.-
A* ~

’ .. 1‘ 

5ygg¥fl6w 0F SPORI: .

. '... _
u. .‘_~ I' ’ d ' - _ i._ '
gamma -- ' ' ' ‘I, A I.
 " (501d. mit  -
. — W _ ~ “ .‘,.;
n l - . ‘ ‘ . In. - If?" 4.7" w
“‘1 ' 5w. ‘ -‘ "" i '

In every field' of sped in Profes-
sional.-Semi-Pro and Ambient Base-
ball and Softball. in Univ‘ersiiies.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation,
Goldsmith Spark Equipment is rec-
ognized as 'a hallmark of quality
and unvarying performance.

- r”. ‘1 - “I .
MACGR EGOR-GOLDSMITH - Inc.  £§3§§$Konfjcr§fmf

some a nuns. w 81!. cinemas“ u. oqu. 03A.

 

side curtains were painted in pastel colors in
diagonal stripes.

The dancers in the chorus were rank amateurs,
many of them being unfamiliar with any form of
dance except the straight waltz, but after several
weeks of hard work they presented a near-profes-
sional appearance. The improvement made by the
young people participating was amazing. Many
of them had never been in a production before, but
with the encouragement and stimulation of a
capable director they soon blossomed forth.

Four dress rehearsals were -conducted. The
young people had several objectives in staging the
production at this time: first, the fun of being in
the show; second, the necessity for raising money
for equipment; and third, the securing of good
publicity before town meeting, since the Recrea-
tion Department was asking for a substantial in-
crease in its appropriation. The cast as well as the
audience was very much surprised at the quality
of their production and immediately made plans
for a road show which would go to their commu-
nities.

Manufacturers. Cincinnati, 0.

610 NOW OFF THE PRESS!

COSTURIES
° ...TO RENT

for Plays, Pageants, and Festivals

Special Rates to High Schools
VAN HORN & SON an CHESTNUT ST.

PHILA. 7, PENNA.
Established 1852

Theatrical Costumers

Now Off the Press!

0U ARE GOING TO LIKE the new booklet we have
Y to tell you about this month. It’s going to be
particularly attractive, we think, both from the
standpoint of content and appearance.

The title—and it’s an intriguing one—Outdoors
Indoors, will tell you what it’s all about. You’ll be
surprised to learn how much of nature can be en-
joyed through a window. You will find out how
to make friends with birds. The weather and the
sky, you will discover, offer a fascinating study.
Indoor forests, ponds, and gardens are fun to make.
And, of course, the out-of-doors can always come
to you through pictures and books.

These are only a few of the suggestions offered
the shut-in and convalescent in this illustrated
booklet which is now off the press and ready for
your use. Price 75 cents.

Everyone who is promoting community recrea-
tion knows how important leadership is. And so
it’s good news that the report on Standards of
Training, Experience and Compensation in Com-
munity Recreation W or}: has been revised to help
local recreation executives and other municipal
authorities meet their postwar leadership needs.
The pamphlet, now known as Recreation Leader-

ship Standards, is off the press and ready for you.
Price 35 cents.

Other publications are in the making and will be
published before long. we hope. You will have
definite word about them in later issues.

 

 

Town meeting came four days after the produc-
tion of “Americana.” The increased appropriation
hoped for was received, and as a result the young
people felt that they had had a part in helping to
secure the additional money. — From Frances V.

LcVecqne, Superintendent of Recreation, Brattle-
boro, Vermont.

 

$100,000 Released for
Public Playground

HEN JAMES C. GREENMAN, a young Utica,

N. Y., business man died fifty years ago at

the age of thirty-four, he left the residue of his

estate, now valued at approximately $100,000 for

the establishment and development of a playground

system to be made available to the city upon the

death of his wife, which occurred yesterday in
New Hartford at the age of eighty-seven.

At the time the will was made (1892) the City

'of Utica did not have a single playground, but it

has since acquired many hundreds of acres of land
for park purposes under bequests from the Proctor
family and others.

Mr. Greenman’s will made specific bequests of
approximately $85,000 to relatives and friends,
leaving the bulk in trust, the income of which went
to his widow during her lifetime.

The will provided that upon her death the trus-
tees or their successor (Charles A. Miller, at-
torney, is the sole surviving trustee) should turn
all the real and personal property into cash, pur-
chase plots of ground within or near the city and
deed these over to the city with the proviso that
they be used and maintained forever as play-
grounds or places of recreation for the young.

The city through the Common Council in 1895,
when John Gibson was Mayor, accepted the gift
of the estate for playground purposes, which had
to be acted upon within a year of the probate of
the estate.

The will further provides that the balance of
cash left over after the purchase of the playgrounds
shall be turned over to the city as follows: Such
amounts as are needed up to one-half of the total
to be used for fitting up the playgrounds so pur-
chased, such as grading and draining them. The
rest of the money is to be held in trust, invested in
accordance with the law governing trust funds and
the income used to care for and maintain the
grounds for the purposes stipulated—Utica Ob-
server-Dispatch, October 15, 1944.

Correction

On page 531 of the January issue of RECREATION
there appeared an article by Mr. and Mrs. Adler
of Juvenile House, New York City. Through an
error Mr. Adler’s first name was given as Jacob.
It should have been Joseph.

RECREATION

GETTING PUBLICITY 611

 

Getting Publicity

(Continued frmn page 592)
or anyone on his staff will reveal his “deadline”—
when he must have the news in order to include
it in that week’s issue. Observe this "deadline"
faithfully lest your contributions miss the desired
issue and thereby become stale or unusable for the
next issue.

Recreation departments are counseled not to
overlook another publicity bet—radio stations.
You will find them cooperative if the recreation
event is a big city—wide one. Churches, too, will
extend a' helping hand to recreation leaders by
making announcements from pulpits or at Sunday
School classes. '

No medium of publicity should be overlooked;
all should be fully used in order to help make rec-
reation programs successful.

Any recreation department can sell its activities
100 per cent to the public by being news-conscious,
by earning the cooperation of newspapers, by pub-
licizing events as extensively as possible. When
the end of the year comes, it will be able to look
backward and feel proud of the increased effec-
tiveness of its programs.

FEBRUARY 1945

Let us remember the sacri-
fices of those who now
light for us by providing
for the health and happi-
ness of whole communities.
Plan, as memorials, “the
needed playgrounds, base-
ball diamonds, golf courses,
etc., that everyone can use
and enjoy.

This message is published
by the Hillerich & Bradsby

Co. in furtherance of the
plans of The American
Commission for Living War
Memorials. Inquiries

should be sent to George
M. Trautman, 30 East

Broad St., Columbus, Ohio.

Their Entrances and Their Exits
(Continued from page 568)

at a chair or touches it before sitting down. A
blind person has to be taught to do this. There has
to be more time put on setting the action of the
play for the blind, and the director must be more
than usually sure not only of her blocking of the
play, but of her ability to express this sureness in
clear, concise words. The complete stage picture
must be “given to each actor because, of course, he
cannot see for himself the whole pattern that is
developing about the entire cast.

Beyond these special concerns, the play will go
forward as any play goes. These blind players
are, perhaps, a little more sensitive, a little better
able to sustain their concentration, a little more
understanding of dramatic situations and charac—
terization—qualities which any director will proba-
bly agree more than make up for the physical limi-
tation of sightlessness.

The pride and the glory of these young women
is that they ask no quarter, seek no special con-
siderations or critical restraint because of their
blindness. They ask their audiences to believe that
they are actors first, blind second.

612 SOMETHING NEW IN EDUCATION!

Something New in Education!

(Continued from page 579)

students were a little skeptical at first, but they
have discovered that boys ands girls can work
together successfully in the same class while learn—
ing the fundamentals of a modern program of
physical education.

A third experiment which deals with evening
recreation for high school students is under way
at then present moment. One night each week the
period between 7:00 and 9:30 P. M. had been set
aside for boys’ recreation in the high school gym-
nasium; one night for girls, and a third night for
mixed groups of boys and girls. The boys had
responded in large numbers; the girls hadn’t taken
advantage of their opportunity, but when it came
to handling boys and girls together we had been
swamped! The crowd was so large for the mixed
group that no one could really have a good time,
so it was decided to have two nights a week of co-
recreation, letting the boys have the third night.

In order to limit the size of the crowds and
conduct a good program of all—around recreation
for the mixed groups we are admitting pupils only
upon presentation of a ticket of admission. These
tickets are distributed free through the home
rooms, beginning with the senior class, and work-
ing on down to the seventh grade. When one hunv
dred tickets have been given out to those who
agree to attend no more are issued. When it comes
time to give out tickets for the second night of the
week we begin the distribution where we left off in
the home rooms and continue through all home
rooms on a rotating basis so that all pupils have
an equal Opportunity.

Recreation activities are also provided for ele-
mentary school pupils four afternoons each week
immediately after the close of school. Two teach—
ers are employed to conduct this work which con-
sists of games, races, rhythms, and athletics.

How Financed

Funds to carry on the educational program in
Planeview come from four sources. The Federal
Public Housing Authority pays to the Planeview
Board of Education a sum of money each year
based on the assessed valuation of the property in
Planeview. This money is paid the public schools
from rent received from the citizens in lieu of
taxes. Funds are also available from the State
Educational Fund, and we receive our proportion-

ate share from this fund just as do all schools in
the state of Kansas. The fourth source of financial
aid comes from funds furnished by the Lanham
Act. These are Federal funds and consequently it
is necessary for our schools to adhere strictly to
the rules and regulations which have been set up
for public schools to receive help from this source.

Our Board of Education and Superintendent,
Frank K. Reid, have decided that teachers who are
well paid and who are happy in their work can
operate an effective educational system which will
give the maximum amount of benefit to the boys
and girls who are enrolled. When well trained
people decide to work together, under competent
leadership, for a common cause, good results are
bound to be obtained. The Plainview Public
Schools, under the leadership of an alert superin-
tendent who is backed by a very progressive, broad—
minded board of education, have been able to con—
duct successfully this new experiment in education.

500? No—Almos’r 5,000!

N THE ARTICLE regarding the Chicago Recreation

Conference which appeared in the January issue
of RECREATION, the statement was made that the
Conference was attended by 500 people.

We have heard from Dr. Philip L. Seman, chair-
man of the Chicago Recreation Commission, who
challenges the statement very vigorously. “As a
matter of fact," writes Dr. Seman, “there were
well over 3,000 who actually registered at the Con-
ference; 1,045 were at the luncheon; and there
were 300 or more who came after the luncheon to
hear Dr. Harry Overstreet. It is difficult to esti-
mate the number of people who visited the exhibits
and who attended the Conference without regis—
tering. The estimate is approximately 1,500, which
would make the total in attendance about 4,500.”

Dr. Seman further says: “There were 27 meet-

ings in all; 14 of them were discussion meetings

varying in attendance from 45, the smallest, to
over 500, the largest. This is outside of the lunch—
eon meeting and the evening meeting at which
Howard McClusky spoke. There were 7 workshop
and 5 professional meetings, making a total of 27,
including the luncheon meeting and the evening
meeting.”

In view of these facts, we feel Dr. Seman is
quite justified in his question, “Where did you get
your figure?”

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 613

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

 

MAGAZINES

Youth Leaders Digest, November 1944

Some Post-War Youth Problems, George Hjelte

Prevention of Delinquency in an Over—Privileged
Community, Frederic M. Thrasher

H ygeia, December 1944
Music in the Treatment of the Sick, Esther Goetz

Gil liland

Journal of Health and Physical Education, December 1944
Dance and the School in Wartime, Martha B. Deane
Outdoor Classes in Northern Winters, Mabel J.
Shirley

The Program and Sport Choices of Navy V-12
Trainees, Frederick W. Cozens

Postwar Planning at the College Level, Mildred

Anderson _
The “Tote” Basket System, Clyde E. Mullis

Parks and Recreation, November-December 1944

Maintenance Mart _
Tiends in Recreation Resulting from the \Var, Lient.

Comdr. F. S. Mathewson, USNR
Living Memorials, Gordon B. Wallace
Indiana’s Long Range Conservation Plans, Hugh A.

Barnhart .
In-Service Training and Wartime Personnel, Roberts

Mann

National Parent-Teacher, December 1944

What Will Santa Claus Bring? Shirley Newsom
Safety Education, December 1944

Sports for the Student, P. F. Neverman

Education Digest, December 1944
The School as the Community’s Meeting Place, Orin
B. Graft

Parents’ lilagazine, January 1945
Fun in and Out of Bed, Mabel Hamilton Mueller

Teachers’ Digest, December 1944
Try Sealing \Vax Craft

.lIanufacturers’ N eras, December 1944
Recreation Program for Small Manufacturers,

Samuel C. Klein I
Employee Publications Job in Recreation Promotion

in Industry, Irving B. Lacy

PAMPHLETS

Suggestions for Post-War Planning
Boys’ Clubs of America, New York City

Tales Told in the Long House
The Carborundum Company, Niagara Falls, N. Y,

Gay Decorations for Parties, Dances, Banquets
Dennison Manufacturing Company, New York City.
Price 10 cents

Your Stake in Community Planning
National Committee on Housing, Inc., New York
City .
The Lighthouse Players (dramatics for the blind)

Ruth Askenas, New York Association for the Blind,
11 East 59th Street, New York 22

Boys' Clubs and Girls’ Clubs
P%k$ and Recreation Department, Salt Lake City,
tah

Planning Your JlIeetings
National Publicity Council, 130 East 22nd Street.
New York 10. Price 50 cents '

Recreation (bulletin)
Recreation Commission, Augusta, Georgia

I

FEBRUARY 1945

BASIBAll BASEJ‘

\‘ Both National regulation “hardball” and
‘ “softball” bases are used as the standard
in many leagues and recreational depart-
ments. Guaranteed to give long playing
satisfaction. National patented reversible
softball bases have proven extremely
popular. Write for complete details.

  
   

 

  

NATIONAL

SPORIS EOUIPMENI CO.
3:5 MARO'JE"E — ions 0'. “At. was

The Pleasures of Reading
(Continued from page 599)

observations of birds, fish, woods and fields, the
sea, and the stars.

But the pleasure of reading is the main recrea-
tional resource which Lord Grey testifies to after
his long and busy life, as the surest and most avail-
able resource open to every busy man. An experi-
enced teacher and critic of literature who enjoyed
this book with me, tells me that Lord Grey has
produced some of the best literary criticism he has
ever read. What I enjoy in his talk about reading,
I would not call literary criticism so much as a tes-
timony to the healing, strengthening, and restor-
ing power of great sentiments and thoughts which
feed the soul and lift one above the humdrum and
agitation of daily affairs. Poetry is Lord Grey’s
first exhibit in the field of reading. He is well
versed in all English poetry. Shakespeare he puts
in a class by himself and says that otherwise, he is
almost too great to comment on. But among poets .
who are not only great in their art, but great in
conveying a sense of significance and beauty in
living, he places first the poet Wordsworth, and he
regards as \Vordsworth's greatest poem, The
Prelude. This poem is now coming into its own,
whereas during \Vordsworth’s lifetime, it was
thought to be the dullest of all his poems. Lord
Grey advises us not to be afraid of long books, but
regardless of length, to read the great, wise, quiet
books which have lasted through the generations
because they speak with peculiar power to the souls
and minds of men; and I think that he himself, in
The Fallodon Papers, has produced one of these
great and wise and quiet books. His repose of
‘spirit in enjoying nature is as great as that of
Gilbert White and of Izaak Walton. He brings
us, as does W 0rdsworth,

“Authentic tidings of invisible things,
Of ebb and HOW and ever during power
And central peace subsisting at the heart
Of endless agitation.”

-614

Starting Your Butterfly Collection
Evelyn Gilstrap, Sanitarium, California. Price 10 cents

Youth Needs in Winnipeg—An Investigation Into the
Causes of Juvenile Delinquency .
Council of Social Agencies of Greater Winnipeg,

Canada

Ohio School Standards in Health, Physical Education,

Recreation and Safety
Department of Education, State of Ohio, Columbus

 

 

The 1944 Forest Fire Season

N ARTICLE under this title in the National Parks
M agaeine for October—December 1944 states
that incomplete reports of forest tires which have
burned in National Park Service areas indicate
that thr’ough September 10th the 1944 record has
been a relatively good one. Fewer fires have been
reported than during any of the previous ten years
at this date. Lightning fires have been about nor—
mal in number, but man-caused fires have shown
a very material and encouraging decrease deSpite
an increase in use of the areas over last year.

The National Park Service made earlyvand in-
tensive preparation for the fire season in all areas.
Critical shortages of experienced regular fire pro—
tection personnel existed, and recruitment of sea-
sonal personnel was dihicult. Dependence had to
be placed on boys and women to fill positions
formerly held by experienced men. The results
have in general been more "satisfactory than was
expected. Regional fire protection conferences were
held attended by key protection personnel from all
the parks. Emphasis was placed on discussions and
practice in fire prevention, organization to obtain
the most effective action from limited personnel,
latest methods for use of labor- saving devices, re-
cruitment, and cooperation with other agencies and
areas in fire suppression.

"Just Some Ideas I Had"
(Continued from page 584)

are not.) I keep a daily shop diary, not in full
details—just a general outline. I can tell you what
I did twenty years ago today (unless it falls on a
Sunday). All my sets of records, the way they are
written up, are of my own making, and I have
been told by those who should know that they are
of the best. I myself can’t answer that because
what I know about records is what I have de-
veloped here, never seeing any other set, or copy-
ing from anyone else.

THE 1944 FOREST FIRE SEASON

Major John L. Griffith -

AMATEUR ATHLETICS and sports lost one of its

outstanding national leaders in the death on
December 7, 1944 of Major John L. Grifiith.
Major Griffith was probably best known as the
Commissioner of the “Big Ten” Conference of
midwestern colleges and universities. He also
served for a number of years as executive vice—
president of the National Amateur Athletic Feder—
ation; as a member of the Executive Committee of
the American Olympic Association (now the
United States of America Sports Federation) ; and
as a member of the Advisory Committee of the
Amateur Softball Association of America.

Major Grihith was greatly interested in the
youth of America and for a number of years served
as chairman of the National Boys and Girls Week
Committee.

I've Seen Their Faces

(Continued from page 590)
I could see, too, the bright, intent face of the small

grinning boy in the ring (the black—eyed one) and
the equally alert grinning face of the instructor,
down on his knees to reduce his height to that of
the boy; their wary, watchful expressions, the sud-
den extending of their fists toward each other.
Their concentration made the room the core of the
universe to those two, and to the small watchers.
I carried a picture of it away—the light above their
heads, shadows in the corners of the room, the

dancing ropes, the intent man and boy in the ring.

—Reprinted from The Junior League Magazine, June
1944.

The Minneapolis Parade Center
(Continued from page 598)

The Parade Center as a Postwar Project

The ultimate criterion of any public project is
whether it is in the public interest and whether it
is practical. It has been demonstrated that it is in
the public interest. Almost every large city in the
United States pdssesses the facilities that would
be included in the Center, but generally, they are
scattered all over the city. The Parade Center
would be unique in that it would contain all the
facilities for both outdoor and indoor sports in
the same area, centrally located, and easily accessi—
ble from all sections of the city. Furthermore,
ample parking space is available for the parking of
1:750 cars within one and one-half blocks of the
Center.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Normal Lives for the Disabled

By Edna Yost in collaboration with Dr. Lillian M. Gil-
»breth. The Macmillan Company, New York. $2.50.

THIS WARM and understanding treatment of a subject
that will be increasingly important to Americans in
the coming months might well be required reading for
every one in the nation. Not only does it bring hOpe and
a challenge tO the physically handicapped, but it is a
warning and a guide for those people—whole of body
and nerves—-whO must help the disabled to find normalcy.
The book is a mine of information about resources for
the disabled as well as a tonic for their discouragement in .
facing a new and difiicult problem.

Sing for America

‘ By Opal W'heeler. Illustrated by Gustaf Tenggren, E. P.
Dutton and Company, New York. $3.00.

OPAL W'IIEELER, with her stories of songs, and Gustaf
Tenggren, with his heart-warming illustrations, have
created a companion piece to Sing for Christmas. The
new songbook is Sing for America. It is a collection Of
patriotic songs, spirituals, pioneering songs, songs of the
West, Stephen Foster favorites to delight the eye and
challenge singers, young and old, tO find the nearest piano
and lift up their hearts and their voices.

Toys You Can Make of Wood

By Lawry Turpin. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.
$2.50.

FEW SIMPLE HAND TOOLS will make the fascinating
toys shown in this book. There are directions for
such unusual items as a ferris wheel and a harbor com-
plete with boats, buildings, and lighthouse as well as the
more usual toys-of—the-day. Directions, along with sug-
gested dimensions, rules for enlarging sketches, and pic-
tures of the finished articles, insure the usefulness of this
guide to more fun for children and more satisfaction for
their parents.

Follt Dancing in High School
and College

ByézGé'gce I. Fox. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

RACE FOX. has collected these folk dances with teacher

training institutions primarily in mind. Her collec-
tion is designed to supply recreation workers and pro-
spective teachers with colorful materials from many coun-
tries—materials to fit the needs of adults and of teen-age
boys and girls. Accordingly, in addition to well-known
and well—loved American figures, dances have been in-
cluded from Russia, England, Sweden, Ireland, Bohemia.
Lithuania, Moravia, Finland, Mexico, Latvia, Italy, and
Switzerland. In addition to piano arrangements of the
dances and dance steps. a list of suggested recordings is
included.

FEBRUARY 1945

Harriman Park Trail Guide

By William Hoeferlin. Walking News, 556 Fairview
Avenue, Brooklyn 27, New York. $.75.

ADESCRIPTIVE GUIDE to trails and' their appurtenances in

pocket size should be a welcome asset to any New
York hiker. The Harriman Park Trail Guide lists trails
in the Northern Ramapos andpthe Southern Hudson
Highlands, including Harriman Park and its surround-
ings; gives a mileage log of marked trails; and suggests
some of the scenic attractions in the area. Photographs

and line drawings make the booklet attractive as well as
useful.

Paddle Tennis

By Fessenden S. Blanchard. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $1.25.

HIS IS THE FIRST complete book devoted to the fasci-
nating new game from which it draws its title. Both
court and platform varieties of the game are described
and explained in detail. Chapters are devoted tO the
equipment, rules, and strategy of each form of the

activity as well as to other pertinent considerations about
each.

U. S. Sports Rule Book

Crewdson and Custer, Publishers, Chicago. $.50.

ONE SET OF COVERS contains condensed rules for twenty-
two sports, and diagrams for setting up courts for

all of them. Both individual Sports, such as archery and

golf, and team sports like football, hockey, softball, are

included in the activities considered.

Teacher's Kit of Aviation Materials for

Intermediate Grades

United Air Lines, Room 305, Palmer House, Chicago 3,
Illinois.

THIS KIT CONTAINS pictures and descriptive data on
United Air Line ships, information about vocational
opportunities in the "Age of Flight,” pictures illustrating
the various stages in the deveIOpment of the modern air-
plane, an air-line map of the United States, and a list of
inexpensive materials Of aid to the teacher Of aviation or
related subjects. An “Aviation Manual,” edited by Wil-
liam A. Wheatley and Laura Oftedal, gives suggestions
for the use of the materials in the kit and further infor-
mation about the history of aviation in the United States.

How to Raise Your Puppy
By Margaret F. Atkinson. Greenberg: Publisher, New
York. $1.75.

POLICE OFFICER OLIPHANT of the police dog force gives
good advice to boys and girls with puppies to bring
up in the right way. From rule number one, “How to
Pick Up Your Puppy,” through feeding, bedding, house-

615

616 NET/V PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

breaking, brushing and combing, bathing, to rule number
seven, “How to 'Get Along with Your Puppy,” Officer
Oliphant offers good, sound advice made crystal clear for
the youngster by delightful illustrations. This book is
not only educational—it is delightful as well.

Good Pictures.

By J. Lavelle McCOy, Jr. Argus International In—
dustries, Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan. $.25.

The author of this booklet has designed his material
to help the amateur cameraman get the most from film
that, in these days, is so scarce as to be precious. Pho-
tography is-considered from both the technical and artistic
points of view. There are sections on developing and
enlarging and on the making of slides for projection as
well as suggestions on how to get the most from camera

and film.

The American Rifle for Hunting
and Target Shooting.

By C. E. Hagel.
York. $1.95.

The purpose of this book, as stated in the preface, is
to guide men (and women) in the selection of the best
rifle and the best ammunition to be used in hunting big
game. To this end different kinds of guns and ammuni-
tion are discussed in relation to their merits in the field.
There are, in addition, chapters on target shooting and
on the best equipment for it, on shooting at small game.
and on rifle sights.

The Macmillan Company, New

Famous American Composers.

By Grace Overmyer. Thomas Y. Crowell Company,
New York. $2.00.

Interesting events in the lives of composers from
Francis Hopkinson, b0rn in 1737, to George Gershwin,
who died two hundred years later, are related in this
book. Each of the composers appearing in it made his
own contribution to the cultural life of America. What
this contribution has been is suggested by the author.

Building a Popular Movement.

By Harold P. Levy. Russell Sage Foundation, New
York. $1.25.

Mr. Levy has made studies of the public relations poli-
cies of a number of agencies. This, the second of the
published case studies, discusses the public relations of,
the Boy Scouts of America. It stresses the interrelation
of three main areas of agency operation—administration,
program, and public relations. “Problems of public re—
lations," Mr. Levy points out, “exist inevitably in an
organization serving the peOple, whether the Boy Scouts
of America or another. They must be met with planning.
performance, and manpower assigned to the job.”

Practical Occupational Therapy for the
Mentally and Nervously Ill.

By Louis J. Haas. The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $6.00. '

Here is a careful and detailed study of occupational
therapy as an aid to curing mental and nervous disorders.
Two—thirds of the book are devoted to an analysis of
case records and to the organization and management of
the therapy division in a hospital. The final third is given
over to a detailed discussion of craft techniques.

Looking to the Future.

Community Chests and Councils, Inc., 155 East 44th
Street, New York 17. $.50.

The Association of Junior Leagues of America, Inc.,
and the Community Chests and Councils, Inc., recently
cooperated in a survey to ascertain the possible future for
centralized volunteer service. A hundred and three com-

munities in the United States and Canada were questioned
in detail on present future plans for such service. Their
answers are here summarized and published together with
suggestions to local communities on the future planning
Of centralized volunteer bureaus. Because it presents the
thinking of groups who have had pre-war experience in
this kind of cooperative planning for the use of volun—
teers, Looking to the Future should be valuable to other
communities as they think in terms of postwar needs.

Lock, Stock and Barrel.

By Douglass and Elizabeth Rigby. J. B. Lippincott
Company, New York. $5.00.

This story of collecting is not a lesson in how to collect
in any one field. It is rather a history of collecting
techniques and practices in all fields. Call it, perhaps, a
portrait of The Collector or a history of collectors and
collections for it is a book full of fascinating stories
about many people who collected many things in many
ages. It is also a repository of information on such
things as the collector’s relationship to museums, the
part played in collection by wars, social change, science,
the danger from “wolves” in the “forest of Collectiana.”
Here, indeed is a fascinating and valuable addition to
anybody’s library—an aid to collectors, an invitation to
non-collectors. -

Homemakers Scrap Book.

Greenberg: Publisher, New York. $2.50.

Here is a scrapbook to end all scrapbooks for the
housekeeper. There are the usual sections for recipes plus
sections for cleaning, home decoration, and miscellaneous
data. There are printed suggestions at the beginning of
each section, plenty of loose leaves for your own com-
ments, basic information about the household, and (per-
haps, best of all) an envelope for clippings bound in

with each division of the book.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCIIER, President *-
JONN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG Bemzs, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUM MER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. Men/ILLS II. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CIIARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. McK. LANDON. Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

- OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WI NANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

