One Aspect of the Role of the
Recreation Center in Our

Atomic Age World

HE UNVEILING of atomic power makes it essential that we do all.
we can to achieve a real spiritual unity among men despite all the

diversity that must persist.

A measure of brotherhood becomes imperative.

World government becomes a matter of course in the face of a
threat of complete and utter annihilation.

Mechanism, centralization, however, will avail us little except
as we develop a spirit of understanding, of brotherhood.

This kind of spirit is not built in a day, and we have not too
much time for building it.

Religion, recreation, education right now have laid upon them
a task many times greater than heretofore, because the need is so
immediate.

Recreation is an expression of the inner nature of man. In our
recreation we reveal what we are. Men and women in our “one
world" now everywhere need to understand what all of us are,
country by country—our music, our art, our drama, our sports,
how we find comradeship, what kind of men we are when we are
free to be ourselves.

In our recreation centers we must build for real understanding
of all people everywhere. And first we must have understanding of
ourselves, of the people in our own neighborhood, in our city, in
our district. We must through recreation develop a habit of under-
standing.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

DECEMBER I945

449

December

A

W“‘

.

o
r‘_-.-
.l

- ' |
Courtesy Recreation Department, San FranCt'sco, Ca“-

RECREATION

 

‘.

 

Christmas in San Francisco, 1945

0 MANY San Franciscans the

Christmas season would be

incomplete without a trip to
the War Memorial Opera House
to see the annual Christmas pro—
gram presented by the Recreation Department.
For a number of years the program has been a
pageant. This Christmas will be a little different,
for the Department has scheduled a dramatized
fairy tale which uses pantomime and folk dancing,
ballet and music—both choral and orchestral—to
tell the story.

The curtain will open to show a huge decorated
Christmas tree on one side of the stage where a
colorful peasant village scene with a bright peasant
dance is in progress. The dancers are boys and
girls of about ten years of age. Later, as the scene
develops, adult groups of men and women as well
as those of high school age join in the dancing.
There are special characters, too, the pompous
village dignitary, the organ grinder with his
monkey, a romantic flower girl, the village belles.

During the merrymaking, two little waifs, ragged
and forlorn, wander onto the stage. They are
'drawn by the warmth and gaiety of this village
scene. But they are unhappy that they cannot be-
come a part of it themselves. And so they wander
off into the forest.

It is snowing as the curtain opens for the forest
scene. The two lonely waifs arrive in the forest—
tired and cold. Lying down upon a little hillock
they pull their coats about them and fall fast
asleep. The snow queen enters
with her snow fairies and the

 

a ' .
DECEMBER 1945

By LYDIA PATZETT

Supervisor of Drama and Dance
Recreation Department
San Francisco. California

The Senior Dance Group is open
to any girl of high school age

snowflake ballet begins. This is
one of the highlights of the pro-
gram as it is done by the Senior
Dance Group, a specialized group
in ballet which meets at the Dance
Center once a week. Any girl who has reached
high school age is eligible if she has sufficient
ability to keep pace with the group.

The little waifs awaken to fairy voices and catch
a fleeting glimpse of the snow queen and the fairies
just before they vanish. Entranced, the youngsters
try to follow but they soon are forced to believe
that what they have seen must have been only a
dream. As daylight brightens, the many animal
folk of the woods appear—rabbits, frogs, turtles,
bears, a fox, a deer. There are fairies, too, and
lovely flowers. The two little children are very
happy here with their many friends and all of
them dance from sheer joy.

As night falls again and their daytime friends
depart, the night life of the forest ventures forth.
In the dead of the night a deep quiet settles over
the forest bringing with it a feeling of mystery and
uneasiness. The two little children become fright-
ened. Suddenly an ogre overshadows all else and
strikes terror into the children’s hearts. They are
about to be gobbled up when the Snow Queen
arrives again and, in the nick of time, banishes the
ogre with a flick of her magic wand. Another flick
of the wand, and the waifs’ ragged clothes become
precious silk and satin. The little girl has become
a princess, the little boy a prince.

Then the snowflake handmaid-
(Conrinucd on page 501)

451

Santa Comes To Roseland

LL OVER the United States dur-
A ing these years of strain and
tensions great housing units
of brick or stone or wood, in styles
colonial or Spanish, French or Georgian, or just
plain and unvarnished utilitarian, have raised their
walls and spread their rooftrees to shelter the peo-
ple in the congested city areas. Their names are
often banners flying in the face of poverty and the
problems of the gallant “little peoples,” challenges
to homesickness and loneliness and fear and want
and discomfort. Whether the banners are to be kept
flying, whether the evils can be challenged suc-
cessfully, depends upon something more than the
thickness of the walls and the soundness of the
roofs. For a housing project, if it is to reach its
ultimate goal, must do more than offer shelter to
the bodies of men. It must be to them food for
their spirits. It must warm the cockles of their
hearts. It must provide, somehow, a shield and
buckler against the enemies that lie in wait for the
person who lacks that triple-plated armor invoked
by Robert Louis Stevenson for all beginners in the
art of living. A housing project, to fulfill the
destiny set for it, must have its bare structure
quickened with the breath of human living.

Such a quickening has taken place in many
developments throughout the
country, developments where co-
operative leadership among the
professionals who “run the show”
and the amateurs who, as ten—
ants, are part of that show has
created something warm and
human and comfortable.

Such a thing has taken place in
Dallas, Texas, at the Roseland
Homes Housing Development.

Roseland Homes, a 650-family,
low-income housing project, was
Opened in Dallas in June 1942.
There are sixty-seven apartment
buildings in the project. From
each of them one resident repre—
sents his fellows on the Resident
Council. It is this Council which,
each year, sponsors a Christmas
party for the hundreds of children

452

By S. W. HUDSON, JR.

Manager. Roseland Homes
Dallas, Texas

in the housing development and the
neighboring community.
Community Party

The party is a gala affair. There
is the traditional tree literally loaded down with
its glittering tinsel and bright balls—annual crop
in the land of Christmas. There are the youngsters
dressed in their “Sunday bcst,” eyes big with half-
frightened anticipation. There are mysterious
boxes, tantalizing in size and shape. There are
snatches of song and glimpses of bright costumes.
And there is, of course, His Royal Highness.
Prince of Christmastanta Claus, complete with
his red and white suit, his beard and his shiny
boots and his “little round belly.” Shy or bold, the
boys and girls cluster about him, discuss with him
their Christmas requests accumulated as the day
dreams and half-formed hopes of the year that has
passed.

During the hour between Santa’s arrival and the
beginning of the special entertainment each of the
small children has a chance to talk to him. Then
he is guest of honor at an entertainment staged
especially for him and the project’s children, their
parents and their friends.

That entertainment is built through the various
community activities, led by volunteers from among

 

RECREATION

 

SANTA COMES TO ROSELAND 453

 

the residents under the over-all direction of trained
professional advisers—two part—time Project Ser-
vice Advisers, the Family and Home Counselor,
the Manager of the Project. The festivities start
with the singing of well-known and well-loved
carols, the traditional songs of Christmas, by a
community chorus of fifty-six voices. This music
is followed by special numbers sung by school and
church groups. The Girls’ Dramatic Club performs
a Christmas play, and the entertainment ends with
a flourish of other carols performed with distinc-
tion and sheer delight by a creative rhythm band

whose instruments are played by thirty-live of the
younger members of the community.

Then comes what is, perhaps, (as it should be)
the highest point of all for the youngsters, the dis-
tribution of gifts. Santa Claus takes his seat on a
throne (for is he not king of them all for the
moment ?). Stacked all about him are hundreds of

apples and oranges and boxes of assorted candies.
In addition to Santa’s largesse, personal gifts are
- exchanged between friends and families.

DECEMBER 1945

The party comes to a triumphant conclusion. The
children and their parents and their friends go
home—but not all of them for good and all. The
next morning the auditorium doors are again
thrown wide—this time in special honor of Rose—
land’s forty-four nursery-schoolers who, rushing
in, Find that the good saint has left from his never-
empty pack a whole set of new toys for their use

in the nursery school while their mothers work
during the coming year.

Planning and Financing

To these 1,200 children, the words Christmas
and Santa C lam have a fuller meaning because of
inter—community activity, cooperation and team-
work. Months before Christmas the Resident
Council sponsors carnivals, recitals and programs
to raise funds. Last year, the women of the coun—
cil made Santa’s suit and cap in order that the
rental fee could be used more profitably. One lady
takes charge of theprogram and the community

(Continued rm page 492)

Custom
of

Mexico

HE CHRISTMAS search

for a lodging. is re-en-

acted each year by
Mexican people in an old.
old ceremony of music
and pantomime. A group
of “pilgrims” come knock-
ing at a door, seeking rest
and refreshment for Mary
and Joseph in commem—
oration of just such an—
other search made in
another land and another
time. As the group nears
the doorway of the house
selected for the occasion
they sing the story of
their search in antiphonal
dialogue —--— the pilgrims
questioning, the house-
holder answering. The
words and music of the
ceremony reproduced
here are taken from Foik
Songs of the Four Sea-
sons, by Susanna Myers
and Hervey OHicer.
COpyright, 1929, by G.
Schirmer, Inc. Reprinted
by permission.

 

AN DANTI No

BEG AND

2. Ask nOt admission at this bolted door,

There is no room here for even one more.
Trouble me not, with cares I am pressed;

Come now, be off, and disturb not,

Disturb not our rest!

454

Refrain

IM - PLORE,

I
E

NINE DAYS
WE'VE.

mi,”

iiilt
iii-
III

 

¢I

Jounnevso,

“II
I

.1“
m

h:

—11

i

i .
I
' l

Ii
“I

NOW WE MUST

llll
.llll
Ill

3. Nay, but: my friend, you must give us your aid:
Help us, I pray you, and be not afraid.

Hope has sustained us all through the day:

ll ope of your kindness has brightened,

llas brightened our way.

Enter pilgrims, welcome pilgrims,

To my dwelling, of my family make a part.
Here is shelter, weary pilgrims,

In mydwelling, and 'a welcome in my heart.

RECREATION

Diary
_ of a
Recreation
Center

at 1936 IN ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, an unused
I warehouse and the grounds adjacent to it be-

came a recreation center and playground for a
district in the city which, till then, had had no rec-
reation facilities of any kind. This happened be-
cause a former resident of the community was so
interested by a request to use an old warehouse in
which he had an interest that he not only granted
the request, but bought up the interests of others
in the property and deeded the whole thing to the
City. _

Funds were appropriated by the Council and the
property was improved. Other ancient and hon-
orable buildings were deeded to the Recreation
Committee which had been functioning but a short
while when the first gift was made. From the old
brick, plus lumber that had been salvaged from the
defunct city stadium, the warehouse was revamped
and made into a modern recreation building. Fur-
nishings and equipment were privately donated.
By 1943 the Munchenberger Center was in use,
although it was not finally finished until 1945.

A gymnasium with a stage, a lounge and game
room, a library with a fireplace, an office and a
clubroom and a children’s playroom, showers
and rest rooms, and-an embryo kitchen provide
indoor space for a varied recreation program.
Outside, the playground

 

Print by Gedgc Harmon

is best gotten at through the things that fall within
the province of the director as day follows day
through spring and summer and fall.

Diary

March: Opening the Center on a freezing cold,
rainy day we found the wading pool full of black,
sooty water, partly frozen. In the center of this
pool, waist deep in water stood a little colored
girl. Excitedly she called, “I’m taking a shower
bath, Mrs. Loveall, you don't care, do you?”

June 25th: We called for volunteers for cleaning
the premises. About forty offered their services.
Pans of water and material with which to work
were provided. At the end of the day the wood-
work and the windows were shining, clean curtains
were hanging from the rods.

June 26th: Cleaned the playground. Many more
wanted to help. Dusted and rearranged the books
in the library.

June 28th: Announced we were going to have a
party in our clean house. But we have to wash and
scrub ourselves now for the party.

June 29th: Nearly hit off more than we could
chew with a short staff. We were swamped with
little brothers and sisters as well as our regular
attendance. Some of the members of the Board

assisted in serving the ice

is equipped with the usual
apparatus and swings and
slides (including a wad—
ing pool and a craft shop)
and is fioodlighted for
night use. Attendance
averages from a hundred
and fifty to two hundred
children a day.

This is the bare body
of a recreation center.
The Spirit that informs it

DECEMBER 1945

From a member of the field staff of the National
Recreation Association we heard of the fine work
that was going on at the Munchenberger Recrea-
tion Center in St. Joseph, Missouri. We wrote the
Center's director, Mrs. Marie Loveall, to asl< her
for more information about the place and the
work. She replied by sending us parts of a diary
of the Center, a diary which covered some of
the activities during the past eight months.
We added a "frame" to Mrs. Loveall's nota-
tions and present the whole thing here as a heart-
warming "inside" story of the l<ind of thing
that must. be very familiar to many directors of
many other recreation centersjover'the country.

cream and no one was
missed in the process.
Everyone left happy.
July 10th: Since we
have given the children
part of the work in keep-
ing the place clean we
have found more interest
and pride. Vt’e h0pe the
thought of cleanliness will
be carried into the home.
July I6th: Have a

455

456 DIARY OF A RECREATION CENTER

  
  

family of eight children whose father is dead. The
eldest, seventeen, was quite upset to find his
eleven-year-old brother had stolen $11 from the
shoemaker. He was hunting here for him with a
strap. Had a serious talk with the older brother
about assuming a father’s duties and lent the lad
the money to pay for the theft to keep the younger
brother out of the “home.” Suggested the younger
brother work over here washing windows to feel
he was earning the debt. The eldest is to pay the

debt. I
July 20th: The little brother is working and

feeling very proud of it in the presence of the other
youngsters.

July 27th: Talked to one of our boys and got
him interested in voice lessons. Helped him find

a good teacher.

July 31st: An interested citizen sent quite a
variety of fishing tackle to the Center as a gift for
the boys. They responded with much enthusiasm
and interest.

August Ist: My faith in the boy to whom I
loaned the money was justified. He paid in full.

August 2nd: On opening this morning found
one of my ten-year-old boys had broken his arm
at his home the evening before, and since his
mother had no money on hand she had done noth-
ing. I closed the Center, took the boy (and mother)
to the Welfare Board where a doctor set the arm
and put it in a cast. This mother is Spanish and
doesn’t understand too well the things most of
us know.

August 9th: Filled out applications for gasoline
and canning sugar for a Spanish mother who can

Print by Gadge Harmon

not write English. . . . A citizen sent a bushel of
lovely peaches for 'a treat. Announced a peach

party for two o’clock tomorrow
afternoon. .' . . Doctored or ad-
ministered lirst aid to bumps and
sores acquired off the grounds and
neglected. Found that one of our
ten-year-old girls is in the hos-
pital in a serious condition caused
from a neglected rat bite.

August 10th: One of our boys
stopped in to see us today. He
had lost a limb in action and was
just out of the hospital on a fur-
lough.

August 11th: Had a nice at-
tendance for our peach party.
Have had a heavy attendance all

day since it has been raining.

August 13th: Mothers have been asking about
their canning sugar they are to apply for now.
Checked with the Ration Board in order to give
accurate information.

August 14th: One of our older teen-age girls
made an appointment with me to discuss her prob-
lem which involves heartache. She works and I
will remain after hours. so I may see her.

August 15th: V-J Day. Everyone is so thank-
ful the war is over.

 

Print by Gedg: Harnm

RECREATION

, down here.

DIARY OF A RECREATION CENTER 457

August 16th: Found about twenty of our teen-
age boys were held by the police on suspicion for
rowdyism over V-J Day, but were later released.

August 20th: Started a few eleven and twelve—
year-old boys making doll beds. They understand
how to go ahead alone.

August 21st: Discovered the boy with the
broken arm had been allowed to go swimming and
the cast, becoming wet, had dissolved. Also dis-
covered they had no intention of taking the boy
back to the doctor for a recheck of the injured arm.

August 27th: The wife of a Spanish laborer
here from Mexico, who, before her marriage was
one of our Spanish girls at the Center, asked me
if she lost her citizenship when she entered Mexico
with her husband who must return. I telephoned
the Judge of the U. S. District Court who advised
me to help her get a certified copy of her birth
certificate from the state and said she did not lose
her citizenship but would have need of proof of
her citizenship to re-enter the United States.
Promised the sixteen-year-old wife books on pre-
natal and infant care for she will be far from home
and among strangers. Filled out the application
and mailed request for her birth certificate.

August 28th: Sister to the girl I mentioned
yesterday came to me today for advice and help.
She plans to marry a Spanish laborer. Her step-
father hasn’t been too kind to either of these girls.
I do hope they will be happy. We telephoned
Kansas City to the immigration authorities since
they wanted to live here. I found he must return
to Mexico since he is under contract to return.
Later he may be allowed to re—enter.

August 30th: Telephoned the head of the Pub-
lic Library, made arrangements to install a branch
library here at the Center when the labor shortage
lightens up. He will give us a donation of used
books as soon as the librarians have time to check
them.

September 5th: \Ve are trying to get a pool
table for our Center through the help of the Boy
Scout executive. We hope to find one. We plan
to get a Boy Scout and Cub Scout Troop started
. . . One of our sixteen-year—old boys
told me he was engaged to a sixteen-year-old girl
and asked my opinion as to their marriage now.
Poor, misguided children, most of them outgrow
the grades rather than finish school.

September 6th: Saw one of my foreign mothers
and asked‘ her to assist me (volunteer) in teaching
the teen-age wives of her race cooking and sew-
ing. She said she would help.

DECEMBER 1945

September 10th: Telephoned the head of the
Council of Social Agencies, asking if he would help
find volunteer workers. We need help so very
much in order to keep Open at night. The teen—
agers ask every day how soon it will be.

September 11th: Over the week end the place
was broken Open; vandalism was committed. All
that was stolen was hotel-size toilet soap. Locked
building and turned detective. Found the guilty
parties. One ten—year—old boy traded one hundred
twenty bars of our soap for a goat. All soap re-
covered and report made to the probation officer
who will take care of this matter.

September 14th: Attended a meeting of the All-
City Recreation Committee which is entirely
separate from the board for which we work. Our
Center was discussed and the idea of starting a
teen-town at the Center was considered. I be-
lieve we are going to get some active cooperation
from this group. I appreciate the head of the
Council of Social Agencies inviting me to attend
for I can go to work feeling others are ready to
assist besides the Board who have done so much
alone.

September 24th: Open nights now with volun—
teer help with a good attendance. Our staff since
June 15, 1945 has consisted of myself and the
janitor.

October 6th: Held open house. The main attrac—
tion was an exhibit of art work created by our
boys and girls. School art teachers were the judges.
We had a dance, too, later in the evening after the
prizes had been awarded.

October 27th : The Halloween party was a grand
success this year. Between 350 and 400 people
came. The Mayor was host and he provided re—
freshments—ice cream and cake—.-for everybody!
There was a “fortune teller” and games and a
ghost walk.

We have our pool table——-at last] And we have
finished redecorating the library.

Footnote by the Diarist

The Center has been serving the adults, foreign
and American, with their problems that arise in
family life. \Ve hope to teach the foreign-born
citizenship, reading, writing, and other things they
want to learn and to teach sewing to any mothers
or girls who want it. All this will be possible with
an increased staff of paid workers or with volun-
teer help. Community singing is to be part of the
winter program.

A Community Theater Serves the Service

theater became aware of an

obligation and an opportunity
when a near-by Naval Air- Base
was expanded and an Army Post was established
just outside the city. These things happened when
the United States first began to broaden its mili-
tary base, so that it was long before Pearl Harbor
that the Theater started first to serve some of the
recreational needs of the military personnel.

At that time the Community Theater, a division
of the Community Center and Recreation Depart—
ment, began its program of entertainment for the
servicemen —— a program
which carried on without a
break through the war
years and is now continu—
ing as a service to the pa—
tients of the newest neigh—
boring military installation,
Dibble General Hospital.

In those early days ser-
vicemen had considerable
free time and the theater’s
first effort was in the form
of special performances of
its regular productions to
which the men were invited. The response was
immediate and enthusiastic, and this gave further
impetus to the idea and brought about an elabora-
tion of the plan. The men were invited to partici-
pate in the shows. Again an enthusiastic and eager
response was the result and many of the soldiers
and sailors came to the theater night after night,
when their service duties were completed. They did
everything from building and painting stage sets
and taking publicity pictures to playing roles. It
seemed to be the link which kept them from being
completely divorced from civilian life, for in these
activities they mingled with civilians doing the
same work.

When war actually came many restrictions and
increased duties almost completely eliminated the
participation aspect of the program, and it also
became increasingly difficult for the men to attend
the special performances, although many came on
the nights of the regular public performances to
which they were admitted free of Charge. The

THE PALO ALTO Community

458

By M. C. THILTGEN

Superintendent of Recreation

Palo Alto, California

A great many good things seem to be coming
out of Palo Alto, California's Recreation De-
partment. In the August issue of RECREATION
we gave you the story of the filming of
Titian. The October issue carried the de-
scription of the Department's over-all setup.
Now we have asked Mr. Thiltgen to write an
article about the adult theater's work with ser-
vicemen both during and after the war years.
For, indeed, the need for this work, especially
where there are hospitals for men and women
wounded in body and spirit. is not less
but more now that hostilities have ceased.

theater administration took stock
of the situation and again re-
vamped its approach. This time
the entire show was transported
to the men at their posts and the area served was
greatly increased since the shows were taken to
camps and posts fifty and sixty miles away. This
did not always prove as simple as it sounds, for
aside from the transportation difficulties, which in
some cases were solved by the Red Cross Motor
Corps or the provision of army trucks, it was
found that many of the camps had no facilities
whatever for the presentation of full-length plays.
A few of the posts had a
recreation hall, although
some didn’t even have this
facility, but practically none
had an adequate stage.
lighting equipment or ac-
commodations for scenery.
- By this time the Commu-
nity Players had come to
the conclusion that no dif-
ficulty was insurmountable
and so they contrived to
provide the camps they
were serving not only with
entertainment but also with the facilities to pro-
duce it. Being a branch of the city government the
Players were unable to use either money or the
equipment of the department for these semi-per-
manent installations so they established a “Camp
Show Fund” and invited contributions. N o pres—
sure was used. A keg was placed in the lobby of
the theater and a note was inserted on the pro-
grams and in The Prompfer, the theater’s monthly
publication. The results were most encouraging.
Materials were purchased. volunteer workers were
recruited and, with the assistance of work details
provided by the military authorities, stages were
built, sloping floors installed, curtains and drapes
were hung and in some cases entire buildings were
constructed. Essential lighting equipment was
purchased and installed and certain portable pieces
of apparatus, such as dimmer banks, were con-
structed and moved from place to place as the
shows traveled about. Even then it was often

(Continued on page 500)

RECREATION

Make Believe Land

ll IIILDREN’s THEATER" is a phrase that has an
C annoying way of meaning different things
to different people. One person may think
of such an organization as meaning theater, either
professional or non—professional, for children with
adult casts and adult crews producing plays for a
child audience. Another may insist that a children's
theater is a place where children, under an adult
director, act the parts, build the sets, set up the
lights and pull the curtains. At the St. Louis.
Missouri, Community Playhouse children's theater
means a balance between the two extremes.

The Children's Playhouse of St. Louis was or-
ganized in 1944 under the sponsorship of the Com-
munity Playhouse which, beginning as the Little
Theater of St. Louis, has been providing drama for

the community’s grown ups for nearly twenty
years. A year ago this group decided that the
time had come to extend their at‘tivities to young-

sters and so offered its facilities for a children’s
theater.

For its first season, the new playhouse within
the old scheduled three productions guaranteed to
win the heart of any child. They were Cinderella.
Stopping Beauty, and Rmnpeistihskin. Each of
the plays was cast with children in the réles of
children but with adults playing the parts of adults.
Participation in the theater is open to any young—
ster between the ages of ten and eighteen on a
competitive basis, and in order to give as many of
them as possible a chance to act, every play is cast

(Continued on page 405’?

Youngsters take responsibility back stage in many children's theaters

 

Photo by A m’ta Fowler

DECEMBER 1945

Conrtesy Recreation C ommfssfon, Palo Alto. Calif.

459

Spit and Argue Club

VISITOR STROLLED down
Pine Avenue in Long
Beach, California, to—

ward the Rainbow Pier, a
favorite central beach attraction for thousands of
tourists and residents. Through the sounds of traf-
fic and the calls of throngs along the surf he be-
came conscious of one voice above the others,
unmistakably raised in harangue. Coming closer
he spied the speaker standing on a rostrum at the
end of a spacious platform which was crowded
with attentive men and, here and there, an equally
interested woman. _

' The curious visitor approached a policeman and
questioned him concerning the gathering of ap—
parently serious folk right in the midst of scenes
of colorfully garbed bathers, striped umbrellas, and
screamineg happy youngsters. The policeman
laughed.

“Oh, that,” he said, “that’s the Spit and Argue
Club. Better listen awhile. You’ll get the answers
to just about every problem under the‘sunw—espe-
cially about politics and religion.”

Going to the railing surrounding the area the
visitor read this sign: “University by the Sea—
Public Speaking, Dancing, Singing, Arguing, and
Visiting.”

Further inquiry brought the visitor to the offices

of the Long Beach Recreation Commission where
he learned many facts about the origin and Opera-
tion of this open-air forum.
‘ Criticized by some and praised by others, this
conversation center seems to be the best answer so
far devised to a problem recognized in many com-
munities. Probably many cities have experienced
inconvenience from the tendency of the garrulously
sociable with time on their hands to gather in
public places to, as the policeman put it, settle
every problem under the sun. Such gatherings
are, perhaps, the modern counterpart of the council
fire or the survival and ex-
tension of the old-time
group about the stove in the
village store.

The problem in Long
Beach was that people bent
on ordinary business some-
times found sidewalks

the "University

460

By DR. FRANK HARNETT
Assistant Director of Municipal Recreation
Long Beach, California

Socrates would be right in his element at
by the Sea,’I according to
Dr. Frank Harnett. Under the banner of the
Long Beach Recreation Commission, an open
air foruml called by many of its devotees
the "Spit and Argue Club," deals with
problems of time and eternity
phere sometimes scornful. but never iviolent.

blocked by animated groups
of arguers. Under such con-
ditions the matter became a
police problem, but the police
settlement was far from a satisfactory one. The
first phase of a better ,_ solution was to designate
an area like London’s Hyde Park, and to pro-
vide facilities where such groups could meet,
separate from the public thoroughfares and yet
close to the center of things. The second phase
of planning was to provide counsel and organi-
zational assistance. Here was a type of service
that, in Long Beach, belonged clearly to the Rec-
reation Commission.

A platform was built adjoining the Rainbow
Pier and this was divided into sections to accom-
modate four principal groups—four because it was
found right at the start that people wanted to do
more than just argue. So the project expanded to
include a forum area with a rostrum, a community
singing area, an informal talking and visiting area,
and a dance area equipped with a juke box for old-
time square dances.

A President and a Board of Regents were
elected and ,a set of governing rules was adopted.
This democratic process has, thus far, been highly
successful. It is interesting and satisfying to note
that in the highly emotional situation resulting
from wartime no serious trouble or disturbance
has occurred. Some minor difiiculties were en-
countered but these were quickly controlled by the

_ group’s own authorities. Among the rules adopted

for the “Spit and Argue Club” were the following:

“A chairman shall be appointed for the speakers
by the committee members of the public discussion
group. If there are no committee members present
a chairman shall be elected by the whole group.”

“Speakers are entitled to ten minutes with an
additional five minutes if the audience desires it.
But, in this case, the names of the speakers are
placed on the chairman’s
waiting list.”

“No speaker may succeed
himself while others are
waiting to speak.”

“If a formal debate is ar—
ranged, the participants have

(Continued on page 499)

in an atmos—

RECREATION

The Do-Some’rhing Club

ll av, MISSUS, what’s the
Do-Something Club
like?” The small face

is full of attention and in-

quiry. He has heard about
our club and wants to know more. The attendant
at the Museum main desk is “all set” with the

answer: “Would you like to catch insects with a

net, or gather leaves and press them? How would

you like to do some real sketching out-of-doors, or

paint with your fingers in our craftshop on a

rainy morning? In the Do-Something Club we

really work with our hands and make all sorts of
objects that have to do with Indians or nature.

You should have seen the bluebird houses some

of the boys and girls made last summer. This year

we begin June 25, and the fee for the entire six
weeks is only one dollar for materials.”

That “gets them I” “Say, missus, will you save
me a place? I’d like to bring my little brother.
Can he come? He’s nine years old.”

Now the sad part of the story begins. Because
of the demand for this activity and the shortage of
teachers, only children from ten to fifteen years of
age are allowed to register. Younger boys and
girls have to wait, but occasionally little brothers
and sisters are invited to come for a Special pro—
gram of motion pictures,
or an out-of—door session
such as a pow-wow 0r
cook-out.

The Do-Something
Club began in 1940 at the
Buffalo Museum of Sci-
ence as a distinct summer
program. Meetings are
held mornings only from
Mondays through Fri-
days. The boys and girls
make objects, see and
hear a great deal. There
are no tests, no reviews,
no final marks, no awards
except for perfect at-
tendance, and no study-
ing—just doing things
and having fun at the
same time.

The average registra-

DECEMBER 1945

By RUTH V. WEIERI—IEISER

Assistant Curator of Education in Charge “Have children, the average
of Junior Activities

BuFFalo Museum of Science

tions have run around seven-

daily attendance between
forty and fifty-five. Members
have been known to postpone
personal medical operations and their parents’ va-
cations until after the close of Do-Something Club
the first week in August.

What is it, you wonder, that gives such alluring
qualities to a summer program for young people.
First, perhaps, is the fact we give the participants
many activities our grade schools never manage to
cover, such as nature study, handcraft, team work.
making objects in the third dimension, free use of
colorful materials, and a flexible program subject
to change due to weather conditions or other en-
vironmental influences.

A brilliant educator once said, “Learn to do by
doing.” Nowhere is' this truth more evident than
in young people who have been taught to work
with their hands. It is upon this theory that much
of the teaching of young people at the Museum is
based. Perhaps some adults feel that craft guilds
belong to medieval times and that it is beneath

Clay animals are always tun

 

461

{I

402 THE DO-SOMETHING CLUB

them to use their
hands, but in this
they have made a
serious mistake.
Many functional
disorders of the
body can be traced
to lack of working
with our hands; this
is why occupational
therapy has made
such strides.

Besides the at-
traction of really
making things in
Do - Something
Club, we offer a
varied program that
is not only changed
from week to week
within the one sea-
son, but also from
summer to summer.
This was necessary
because we have a
nucleus of boys and
girls who have at—
tended five consecu-
tive summers. A few of these, of course.
have become assistants now. We are
glad for their help as our teaching staff has been
cut due to lack of municipal funds.

Each year the six different weeks of activities
are named, and projects for those particular weeks
are slanted to coincide with the weekly titles. We
often open with Flower and Tree Week usually
followed by Animal or possibly Insect. Week.
There have always been weeks dedicated to the
Chinese or the Mexicans and also the American
Indians; the final week is Potpourri or Round-up
Week. This last week is devoted to the finishing
of all projects, the preparation of a final program.
and the planning and installation of the exhibit.
The last day is the program, exhibit, and “tea.”
To this parents and friends are invited. A fruit
punch or birch beer plus cookies or potato chips
form the refreshments.

As a variation for the summer of 1945, the over-
all theme is pioneering in America, and the weeks

are to be named as follows:

June 25—The Farm (North Eastern States)
July Z—The Stockade (Iroquois Indians)
July 9—The Homestead (Midwestern States)

 

Home for a bluebird

July lG—The Planta-
tion (Southern
States)

July 23—The Ranch
(Southwest Indians

included)
July 30 — The County
Fair

Within a single
week the following
procedure worked
out very well. Each
Monday- all of the
children gathered in
one large room
where a couple of
motion picture reels
introducing that
week’s topic were
shown. After the
picture each teacher
explained the pro-
ject that she had
planned to teach that
week, showing one
or two finished ar-
ticles as samples.
Then all the mem—
bers present were
handed slips of paper on which they
wrote their names and checked their
first, second, and third choices of activities they
wanted to do that week. Early Tuesday mornings
the lists were posted where everyone could read
for themselves. The children were arranged into
three or possibly four groups (each to meet in a
separate room) ready for the new projects. We
try to limit the groups to twenty. If thirty checked
“Mexican bowls” on their slips, ten of these would
be given their second or even third choices. A
brand new child would naturally have some pri-
ority over a youngster who has the Do-Some-
thing Club habit and might therefore be classified
as a “veteran.”

Here is a list of a dozen or so projects that we
have found popular and yet not too complicated:

I. Weaving in some form. Sometimes it is the
weaving of Indian baskets from wet cat-tails
that have first been dried, or the weaving of
Ojibway belts with wool and cotton. Lucky
loopers are also popular.

2. Cutting patterns and sewing soft stuffed ani-
( C outiner on page 496)

RECREATION

3

Play Center for Youngstown Children

HE JOSEPH G. BUTLER SCH001.
T in Youngstown, Ohio, was the

scene of an experimental Play
Center in the summer of 1945. The
Center was set up on a two weeks basis for adults
and children in an effort to demonstrate what could
be done with teaching a variety of subjects with a
maximum amount of freedom. If enthusiasm and
delight in the program be taken as criteria, the
experiment was a huge success. Witness one
youngster’s proposal for extending the session.
“Gee! only four more days. \Vhy we’ve only
started. V‘Vhy doesn’t someone call the Superin-
tendent (of Public Schools) and tell him about it?
It ought to go on for anyhow five years l”

The experiment met and passed triumphantly
many other tests in its two weeks. It met the test
of public support, for by the end of the first week
the enrollment had doubled. It provided trained
leadership. Seventeen school teachers—men and
women who had just completed their normal year’s
work and who might have been expected to make
a dash for seashore or mountains, or at least to the
comfort and comparative solitude of their own
side porches—these men and women volunteered
their time and their talents and their energies to
“make a go” of the Play Center.

Accomplishments

Perhaps the highest test of all was met by the
very real accomplishments chalked up by the par-
ticipants themselves. There were four age groups
for people who came to the Center—four to six,
seven to ten, eleven and older, adults. Each per-
son in each group chose the kind of things he
wanted to do. The list of choices was wide: crea-
tive dance, music, storytelling, choral speaking,
games, sprays, woodwork, sewing, painting, hand-
crafts, creative writing, puppetry. Small wonder
that some people had, at first, a little difficulty in
making their selections. But once the choice was
made. nobody lost any time in getting down to
cases and working with enthusiasm.

The volunteer leaders had one main, guiding
principal. They would start in each group at the
level of the present interest and the present de-
velopment of its members and go forward from

there to leave the group at a higher level of interest"

DECEMBER 1945

By HELEN BUZARD

Principal, Butler School
Youngstown, Ohio

and development. This was not
always easy to do because many of
the leaders were working with age
groups to which they were unaccus-
tomed and often with unfamiliar subject matter.
But, somehow or other, all obstacles faded into
insignificance before determination and ingenuity
and cooperation.

For instance take the realm of creative dance.
The youngsters in the dance group were expert at
jive and jitterbug. But their experience of “The
Dance” was bounded on the north, south, east, and
west by just those two “forms.” By the end of a
week the group had progressed to a point where
they were working on symphonic ballet—and what’s
more they were liking it! It goes without saying
that their ability to appreciate the deeper signifi-
cance of dance as a leisure time activity had taken
a large leap ahead. It goes without saying, too,
that in this as in other phases of the program, the
Center was attempting to open new avenues of
recreation to its participants rather than to make
accomplished performers out of them.

Another example of the success of the process
comes from the creative writing group. These
youngsters chose their subjects from every day
life and produced such comments upon it as this:

RAIN

A sharp spatter of rain on the glass
Thunder rumbles the door
Lightning darts through the grass

It must be summer once more.

Surprises

There had been no plan to teach “regular” aca-
demic subjects. This, after all was summer and a
time for play. But at the end of the first week
youngsters were asking for instruction in spelling
and arithmetic and writing—and getting it! They
had become aware of their own deficiencies in those
lines. They had realized—what almost any teacher
would give much to be able to teach—that writing
and spelling and arithmetic did not exist in a
vacuum especially designed for the torment of boys
and girls but, on the contrary, those “subjects”
were a necessary part and parcel of the things the
boys and girls had deliberately chosen for them-

(.Comiizueti. on page 497)

463

Full Lives for the Aged

REA'I‘ CITIES are known for
6 their bustling, breathless
atmosphere and for the
traditional anonymity of the peo-
ple who live in them. No city in the world has
these characteristics in greater degree than New
York, and no group of people in New York City
is less able to cope with them than the elderly.
New York has some half million men and women
who are sixty-five years old or more. Many of
them—and in some neighborhoods, most of them——
live alone and look it. In furnished rooms or small
apartments old people spin out their years in lone-
liness, feeding on nostalgia instead of hope, on
memories instead of activity.

The grants allowed by Old Age Assistance or by
other forms of public relief to unemployed old
people cover food, shelter and clothing. They can
rarely be stretched to include even so simple a
luxury as an occasional movie or concert. Yet old
people need and respond to recreation as much as
do the young. In fact, recreation has an even
greater psychological significance to an old man
who must otherwise spend his days in idleness
than to a young person much of whose time is pre—
occupied with earning a living.

In “Old Age in New York City,” published in
1943 by the Welfare Council, Helen Hardy
Brunot reports a telling incident. A librarian had
referred seventy-year-old Mr. M. to a social agency
because she noticed he needed glasses. When the
social agency worker talked with Mr. M. he told
her that, although he could not see to read, he
spent a part of every day in the library because it
was a place to sit “and be with people.”

Only in recent years have we realized what a
mistake it is to allow the older people in our midst
to slip away from the main
stream of community life. For
the aged need not be only on
the receiving end; they can
make their contribution, too,
if only we open wide the
doors of our community fa—

cilities to welcome them.
In New York City, the

taken the leadership in coax-

464

By F. R. ALDERSTEIN
Director of Public Relations

Welfare Council of New York City

There is. perhaps. no phase of recre-
ation more in need of emphasis than rec-
reation for the very old who areI too
often. at the same time the very lonely.
This is the fourth in a series of arti-
cles discussing this problem which have
appeared in recent issues of RECREATION.
We should like very

. , , . other recreation leaders who have found
Yorkwne CIVIC conned has a way to attack this problem in their

-communities ~ whether large For small.

much to hear from

ing elderly people out of their
barren rooms into the sunlight
of community life. The York-
ville Council, one of the twelve
regional affiliates of the Welfare Council of New
York City, is a federation of social, health and
recreational agencies serving an area of eastern
Manhattan which has ’an unusually large number
of old people living in tenements and old-fash-
ioned brownstone houses. With the decision to
launch its program of recreation for the aged by
holding two Sunday afternoon tea parties in local
settlement houses, the Yorkville Council drew for
its invitation list on the rosters of the City Depart-
ment of Welfare and other local agencies.

Two local neighborhood houses offered their
facilities. The invitation list was split, and half the
list was invited to the first party, the other half to
the second. Each of the settlements had previously
agreed to begin special recreation programs for old
people if sufficient interest was expressed. Sunday
afternoon, March I I, saw busy preparations going
on. A motion picture screen was set up in the
auditorium, chairs were placed before it, and the
room was ringed with a series of tables each laid
with plates and cups and saucers, dishes of candy
and flowers. Members of the Yorkville Council’s
Committee on Recreation for Older People, which
was in charge of the project, served as hostesses
and ushered into the room a steady stream of men
and women who looked uncertain but eager. One
elderly lady asked as she entered: “Who invited
me here? I’ve lived in New York for forty years,
and this is the first time I’ve ever been invited to
anything like this.”

The party was a huge success. Two hundred
guests came early and stayed late, listened appre—

ciatively as a talented mem-
ber of the settlement staff
sang “Smoke Gets In Your
Eyes,” sang out lustin them-
selves when someone sug-
gested “Daisy” as a song they
all knew and could sing to-
- gether, drank tea and coffee
and ate cake, applauded the
showing of three movie shorts,
and had a good time gener-

RECREATION

—'-—

FULL LIVES FOR THE AGED 465

ally. Most of all, they gained a new sense of com-
panionship, for as one old gentleman said: “I had
no idea there were so many of us old folks in
Yorkville. It kinda makes me feel better.” Their
happiness showed on their faces. One observer com-
mented: “I’ve never seen pe0ple leave anywhere
with such shining eyes.”

When the director of Lenox Hill House spoke
informally and invited the guests to make use of
the House’s sewing, reading, carpentry, and music
facilities, the response was shy. The old people
had not been exposed long enough to the commu-
nity spirit to understand what it could mean to
them. But the idea grew, and before many weeks
had passed, it caught on.

The second party, held two weeks later, was a
duplicate of the first. Then Hunter College, which
is located in the Yorkville area, decided to play
host to the neighborhood’s old folks. Working
through the Yorkville Council, the Hunter College
group invited those who had come to the other
parties to spend an afternoon in
the college auditorium. It rained
heavily that day, but more than
100 guests showed up and were
entertained by a playlet, by a
dance exhibition put on by a chil-
dren’s group, and by chatting with
one another over the refresh-
ments.

Since the parties, some of the
old people have become regular
attendants at the lectures, classes
and social events held by the set-
tlement houses. Nine or ten elderly
women attend a morning sewing
class where they sew and chat.
One brought a dress she had
started five years ago and was
unable to finish without help. Her
new friends welcomed the Oppor- "
tunity to pin and to baste.

An even more thrilling experi—
ence for this group took place
when a young mother living in
the neighborhood came into the
settlement house to see if she
could get help. She could not sew '
and was in great need of clothing.
The group helped to make a suit-
able wardrobe for her, and took
great pride and pleasure in their
accomplishment. They sew not

DECEMBER 1945

only for themselves but for the Red Cross and for
local hospitals. Those who are able and would like
to earn extra money by sewing have been directed
to an organization which makes hospital garments
through home workers. There is even a plan afoot
to start a professional clothes clinic, thus building
up a small business which will not only keep the
old ladies happily occupied but will also be a small
source of income to them.

For some reason, the men are more reluctant
than the women to accept special programs, and
have not yet indicated interest in any particular
activity which might be started specifically for
them. However, the chairman of the Council’s
Committee on Recreation for Older People, says:
“We hope to find eventually a type of program
which will interest the men. They always come

(Continued on page 496)

". . . feeding on nostalgia instead of hope"

 

Combine and Conquer

By OSWALD D. GATES

HE CITY OF FOREST

Grove, Oregon, began

its year-round commu-
nity recreation program
September I, 1944, as a
joint venture between the
community and Pacific University. The commu-
nity had an appropriation for recreation but it
needed someone to organize and promote the pro—
gram. At the same time, the University needed a
head for its Physical Education Department. A
plan was worked out whereby one man trained in
the fields of recreation and physical education

.could fill both needs.
The small war-time enrollment at the University

in 1944 provided a fine opportunity for the Uni—

versity to lend the community
its facilities for an activity
program. The gymnasium was
placed at the disposal of the
community every night of the
week for playing and seeing
basketball games, badminton
contests, handball matches, and _
volley ball tournaments. The women of the com-
munity used the gymnasium for their weekly body
conditioning class.

Three classes in the physical education depart-
ment of the University have contributed directly
to the community and received valuable experi-
ence from their participation. A class in low-or-
ganized and singing games held for the grade
school PTA resulted in one of the largest PTA
turnouts of the year. One night a week was de—
voted to community recreation—square dancing,
circle dancing, and pattern dancing—in sessions
open to both university students and the commu-
nity. This was held in the gymnasium on the
campus and was very well attended. An interest
in tumbling developed in the community recreation
periods, and practice teachers from the University
made good use of the tumbling and calisthenics
they learned in their classes at the University by
incltiding these activities in their high school teach-
ing periods.

The children have been instructed in the gym-
nasium in tumbling and have given several exhibi-
tions at community functions. Under-the direction

466

Director
Physical Education and Athletics
Pacific University and Community Recreation
Forest Grove' Oregon

Forest Grove's population is estimated
at only about 2,000 people' but co-
operation between Pacific University
and agencies of the community has

resulted in a recreation program in
which the citizens take justi

of a senior student at the
University, performances
were put on at a PTA
gathering, and for a Cham-
ber of Commerce meeting.
A girls’ tumbling team of
the University was billed at the annual community
Infantile Paralysis show held in the high school
auditorium. This group gave several other per-
formances at granges and community clubs. Sat-
urday mornings and afternoons the gym was turned
over completely to activities for the children in—
cluding sports of all kinds as well as low—organized
games for the smaller children.

In order that youngsters of high school age
could learn to dance, a dancing class was organized
with fifty-two high school
couples. The Recreation De-
partment received many fine
compliments on this project
and it is grateful to the Uni-
versity faculty members who
made it possible.

McCormick Hall has been
used on various occasions for civic group meetings.
The dining room and chemistry building have been
available for the community Chess Club, the Uni—
versity Chapel for community forums and lectures
and various musicals.

For its summer recreation program, the city
may call on the University for certain facilities.
They may ask to use the stadium with its lights for
softball leagues, for men, women, and boys; or
perhaps a certain area of the campus for play-
ground space; or the use of the gymnasium during
rainy weather. At any rate Pacific University un-
doubtedly will be asked to play its part in some
phase of this summer project. At least one Uni-
versity student will be employed on a full-time
basis for the summer to assist in carrying out the
recreation program. During the winter, five stu-
dents assisted in Saturday activity programs for
the boys and girls of grade school and high school
ages. Planning and conducting low-organized
games, teaching sports and the techniques of
tumbling, officiating at athletic contests and super-
vising free play have been their tasks. They have

(Continued on page 497)

table pride.

RECREATION

Convalescing Can Be Fun

0 THE AVERAGE MAN in good health, recreation

means relaxation, but to wounded men in an

Army hospital, recreation is a definite part of
the medical treatment, prescribed by the doctor,
and necessary for full recovery.

At Madigan Convalescent Hospital, a part of
Madigan 'Hospital Center at Fort Lewis, \V’ash-
ington, patients from overseas have medically
planned recreation activities. To the medical of-
ficers it is classed as “treatment”———to the patient it
is just “fun.” But fun or treatment, baseball, foot—
ball, volley ball and other active sports have deh-
nite therapeutic value—rebuild weakened muscles.
strengthen broken bones, relieve nervous tension.

Painting in the art department, or molding, the
ceramics shop also appeals to the hobbyist, but the
use of injured hands, the expression of pent-up
emotions, the craving for something tangible to
“get their hands into” make this form of recreation
of definite medical value.

The Pacific Northwest, where )ladigan is lo-

cated, makes possible a wide range of diversional
recreation. Classed as “Educational Recondition-
ing,” by the Army, horseback riding through pine-
covered forest, fishing in American Lake’s fresh
water or Puget Sound’s salt water or touring the
scenic wonders of near-by Mt. Rainier, “educates”
the men in a very practical and entertaining way.
Swimming, golf and other sports are called “Physi-
cal Reconditioning,” but they’re just as much fun
as if the men had to pay for the facilities.

Technically, arts, ceramics, machine shop, auto
repairs, and other “Prevocational Training” courses
are designed to assist the patient in choosing his
future civilian occupation, but actually the courses
are conducted in a diversional manner, with side
trips to local industries, supplemented with picnics
in the middle of field trips, and sport exhibitions
in connection with the physical reconditioning.
Classes are informal, and are selected by the men
themselves.

One of the recreational-vocational courses

For recreation and "prevocafional training"—a scieni‘i‘fic farm

 

DECEMBER 1945

a d

   

.  .

Photo

‘I > _

by U. S. Army Signal Corp:

467

 “7.0 ‘t.

 

CONVALESCING CAN BE FUN

Photo by U. 5. Army Signal Corps

A private swimming beach for convalescents

offered is a complete model railroad which pro-
vides a hobby for all interested patients, and also
occupational therapy for men with injured hands
and arms. The patients, using minute tools, built
the sets, now maintain and run the complex minia-
ture system which is complete down to the last tie.

To centralize the sports-physical reconditioning
program, a new gymnasium and swimming pool
have been completed. Accent, however, is directed
towards outdoor sports and activities, and the huge
athletic field includes two
football fields, six: softball and

all year round. Once a month a sports week is held
in which the patient companies compete against
one another. Men with injured legs turn in sur—
prisingly good times for running events and a large
crowd turns out each time the meet is held.

Former All-American football and basketball
players, trained reconditioning specialists, high
school and college coaches are among those who
instruct the men and supervise all athletic work.
Every instructor or teacher in the hospital was
especially picked for his
knowledge of and ability at

baseball diamonds, eight ten-
nis courts, volley ball courts,
two basketball courts, six
handball courts, and facilities
for archery, shufHeboard, and
horseshocs, all outdoors in
the mild “iashington weather,
which averages fifty degrees

We heard of the broad and interesting
recreation program being used at Madi-
gan Hospital Center, Fort Lewis, Wash-
ington, as an aid to getting wounded
servicemen well again. We asked for the
story of that program for RECREATION.
The article we received in response to
that request is printed here as an-
other in the series of reports on rec-
reational therapy in war hospitals.

his certain specialty.

A huge 112 acre farm has
become a favorite pastime for
the patients. Complete with
animals and machinery, the
men have built the farm
buildings, tilled the land and

( Continued on page 495)

RECREATION

A Neighborhood Fair

HAT is a Neighbor-
hood Fair?

(1) An event where
neighbor gets acquainted
with neighbor.

(2) An event where neigh—
bors are introduced to neigh-
borhpod treasures.

( 3} An event at which
neighbors get better ac-
quainted with neighborhood
facts and figures.

The first of these fine pur-
poses is to be accomplished

By MARCIA LEE

 

The February I945 issue of RECREATION
carried a note about "Hi. Neighbor.“ the
I945 project of the Camp Fire Girls. de-
signed to create better understanding be-
tween the girls ot America and neighbors
of other racial origins who may be living
in their neighborhoods.

In “The Neighborhood Fair,“ published in
the February issue of The Camp Fire Girl,
Marcia Lee offers suggestions for practical
application of the theme. Recreation work-
ers who may be planning playground or
neighborhood fairs will find helpful sugges-

Dolls of All Nations Booth.
Dolls are popular with both
old and young, and it will
be surprising how many
lovely dolls in authentic for-
eign dress can be found in
one neighborhood—and the
doll booth will serve to re-
mind one and all of our
world neighbors that tomor—
row’s air age will bring so
close.

An appropriate and in-
teresting background for this

by “data tags” and games,

the second and third by a

quiz contestant to be bundled up and sent to “Our
Town Fair,” the city—wide event.

Exhibits

Neighborhood World Treasures Booth. The treas-
ures will be old, valued, historic treasures—not the
souvenirs collected on the trip to Italy just before
the war, but the kind that have been in families for
generations, that have come from the old country,
or, the things that are treasured because they are
relics from the early years of this country’s or
your own town’s existence (the gun that protected
great grandmother in covered wagon days; the
gavel that great grandfather pounded as first city
magistrate; the watch that was bought at the open-
ing of the town’s first jewelry store; the bird print
presented to great grandfather by John J. Audu—
bon; the delft tile; the Dutch c0pper kettle; the
piece of Quimper pottery; the Swiss music box;
the Della Robbia plaque; the Brittany head
dress) . . .

Almost every home in t0wn shelters some treas-
ure of this type, which your girls may already
have discovered through their “Treasure Treks.”
\Vhen they have made a selection of the possibili—
ties, the girls can ask the owners to do them the
honor of bringing their treasures to exhibit at their
carefully managed fair.

If treasures aren’t readily unearthed by the girls’
alert treasure clues, publicity will bring them in—
posters and announcements in trade papers and
store advertising sheets, for example.

DECEMBER 1945

tions in Miss Lee's article.

booth might be a large out-

line map of the world, the
guests to place colored thumb tacks within the
outline of the country or state from which each of
their grandparents came. By the time all have
visited the booth, the map ought to be an effective
illustration of the neighborhood’s “world heritage.”

Servicemen's Souvenirs from World Neighbors'
Booth. Souvenirs from servicemen are accumulat-
ing in many homes, and the owners would be
proud and pleased to have them exhibited. These
will not include souvenirs of battle, but only such
souvenirs as illustrate the customs and crafts of
the particular country.

A feature attraction of this booth could be a
display of letters from neighborhood men and
women in the services describing the changes and
improvements they would like to see in the town
and neighborhood when they return home. These
letters will come in response to the girls’ letters to
fathers, brothers, sisters and friends in the service
explaining their “Hi, Neighbor!” project and ask-
ing for the servicemen’s “neighborhood improve-
ment” suggestions. The ideas for improvements
might be posted on a big chart with columns op-

posite each suggestion in which the guests could
mark their own vote, “Yes” or “N 0.”

Neighborhood Hall of Fame Booth. This will be
a picture gallery (with accompanying newspaper
articles or other identification of the neighborhood

men and women, living or dead, who have achieved
national prominence in science, statesmanship, the
arts, 'or in 'spOrt's).

469

470 I A NEIGHBORHOOD FAIR

Refreshment Booth. Refreshments can carry out
the town heritage theme, selling cakes, candies,
cookies and drinks made from foreign recipes that
have been garnered about the neighborhood. The
girls might collect these recipes and make up the
goodies themselves, or the persons or shops famous
for some specialty might want to furnish “penny”

samples.

The Quiz Contest

A big drawing card to gather in the crowds
will be the promise of a quiz—the winner to repre—
sent the neighborhood at the city-wide fair.

This “H i, Neighbor!” Quiz will be based on
facts and figures every good neighbor should know,
questions to be made up by an “outside” committee
—perhaps a committee of teachers selected by the

girls. '

The questions could cover such facts as these:
location and names of churches, schools, parks,
museums, industries, housing developments, tran—
sit systems, town landmarks, shops, stores, recrea-
tion halls, names of church pastors, school princi-
pals, teachers, district representatives in the City
Council, names of famous people from the neigh—

borhood.

Your committee will think of many other kinds
of questions. If the neighborhood is a small one,
it would be safe to ask such questions as “what
kind of trees line such and such a street; are the
houses on Blank Street made of wood, stone, or
brick,” and so on.

Let the'contestants draw slips of paper from a
box to form teams, ten to each side. All those
drawing the ten slips marked No. I will be on
Team N o. I, and those drawing slips marked No. 2
will make up Team No. 2.

There should be an official scorekeeper to chalk
up individual scores. Each correct answer scores
ten points. When a contestant makes an error the
question goes to the first person who has her hand
up on the opposite team. This method will give
the well-informed a chance to roll up their indi-
vidual scores. It is important, too, that the ques-
tions are carefully worded to allow only one c0r-
rect answer.

A skilled master of ceremonies is very necessary.
Is there a radio announcer in the neighborhood,
the president of a men’s club, or is one of the
Camp Fire fathers especially gifted as an emcee?

The high scoring contestant wins the “Hi,

Neighbor!” crown and will represent the neigh—
borhood at the Town Fair.

Get Acquainted Game

To help neighbor get acquainted with neighbor,
the girls might make up “Hi, Neighbor!” data
tags with space for the guests to write name, ad-
dress, occupation, hobby, favorite sport, how long
they’ve lived in the neighborhood, and where they
were born. These are to be pinned on and worn
throughout the evening. The data tags ought to
spark many a conversation as the guests mill
around the exhibits.

Before the big quiz have a “Neighboxood
Map” relay, lining up two, three or four teams,
depending on the size of the crowd. After the
teams are divided off, allow a few minutes for
teammates to scrutinize each others’ data tagsl

On the wall, opposite each team, tack a silhou-
ette map of the neighborhood, with the streets
drawn in and squares made to represent public
buildings, schools, churches, and other town land-

' marks. Each street and building will have a num-

ber rather than a name.

Every member of each team is to fill in the
name of the street or building that bears the num—
ber which corresponds to his position in line.
Thus, player No. I would find No. I on the map
and write in the appropriate name; N o. 2 would
find No. 2 on the map, etc. If a player is unable
to fill in the name at his number, he must leave it
blank. The team who fills in the most names cor-
rectly is proclaimed winner.

To close the fair in fitting fashion, one or more
of the girls might describe the “Hi, Neighbor!”
project, announce the coming town fair and invite
all the guests to be present. It would be interest-
ing to bring out the world map so everyone could
see how many countries have contributed to the
neighborhood’s population, and to read off the

suggestions on the Servicemen's Chart along with
a tally of the votes made?

“As the years go on, the time will come when
as men and women consider the city in which they
wish to live they will ask: ‘Is the city’s cultural
life shared? Has the neighborhood something of
the feeling of comradeship which students of a
college come to have?’ Every other institution in
the city will be strengthened if there be such
sharing of thc real wcalth of the neighborhood.”

RECREATION

ll

Nature Adventuring in Winter

winter? Not by any means!

Some adventures are possible only in win-
ter; some are better at that time; some merely
demand a different approach.

In the first category come tracks in the snow—
tracks of animals or birds—finding them, identify-
ing them, following them, but best of all, reading
the story they tell. On one mid-winter jaunt the
tracks of an undisturbed walking deer were easy to
recognize. Suddenly we found where it had stopped
dead still, evidently startled, and then bounded up
the hillside to the right. Puzzle: find proof of what
startled it! Not far ahead tracks of a man, boy,
and dog showed that the trio had rounded a turn
in the road, walking, then stopped, startled, then
rushed diagonally up the hillside toward the point
where the deer had disappeared over the brow.
One can, with practice, become very skilled in in-
terpretation. It’s absorbingly interesting and all
tied up in memory with the crunchy sound of your
footsteps in snow, the sparkle of snow crystals,
your breath condensing in the cold bracing air,
your blood tingling and aglow with the exercise.
Who wants to sit indoors by a fire all the time?
(But that is good to come home to, isn’t it?)

We in the warmer West or South are not de-
prived of the fun of tracking in winter though we
have no snow, for there are wet sandy or muddy
beaches, wet roads or trails, even dusty places now
and then, where tracks are clearly recorded. Wet
shores of city park lakes are available to many city
dwellers the year round. At Westlake Park in Los
Angeles we found clear tracks of a pelican, one of
the very few birds that have webbing connecting
all four toes—“totipalmate” they are called, if you
like long words. And near-by were duck and swan
tracks where only three toes are connected with
webs. An interesting con-
trast is the track of the com—
mon codt or mudhen whose
absurdly long toes, each
separate, have scalloped
webs. These are worth
searching for and not hard
to find, they feed so fre-
quently on muddy shores.

Speaking of birds brings

N ATURE WIPED off the slate in

DECEMBER 1945

By ELIZABETH H. PRICE

Nature adventures don't stop happenin
when the leaves tall and the bears "hole up"
for the winter. This article and the one
which follows it are strong arguments for
carrying nature study through the year.

Elizabeth Price, who wrote of nature in
her spring and summer clothes in the March'
[945 issue of RECREATION (Nature Is Fun),

has some stimulating suggestions for adyear-
round nature program, bothindoors an out.

us naturally to the fact that win-

ter is the season when food is
hardest for birds to find and so it will be a mutual

benefit if you attract whatever birds winter in your
neighborhood by providing a food supply where you
can watch them, even make friends with them close
at hand. Hungry birds in bare trees against a
snowy background offer excellent opportunity for
getting acquainted with your winter visitants.

“Thousands and Thousands of Stars”

Because it is dark so early and because in the
cold air stars seem to sparkle most brilliantly,
winter is a grand time to make the treasures of the
sky your own. I have found the quickest way to
become familiar with the constellations is to make
a chart on transparent paper of a certain area of
the sky—we usually begin with those near the
poles (the circumpolars)——from a mathematically
correct Atlas, using only the first, second, and
third magnitude stars, the ones that make the
familiar pictures. Then, as soon as it is dark, go
outside with the chart and a flashlight. It isn’t at
all difficult to locate in the sky each constellation
on your chart, for the making of the chart has
fixed those pictures in your eye. It is necessary
to refer to an almanac or a sky magazine to get the
locations of the planets. These seem to keep mov-
ing among the stars and should not be put on your
chart unless you use eraseable pencil. These are
days when everyone should be astronomy-con-
scious, for new discoveries with important impli-
cations are being made and still more are pre-
dicted as soon as the giant new telescope'on Palo-
mar Mountain can be used. The atomic bomb isn’t
the only cosmic sensation of the decade.

The Winter Woods

Tree—adventuring in winter demands a new ap-
proach since most of us are
leaf, flower, and fruit con-
scious. In winter, though
leaf, flower, and fruit are
gone, the bark is still there
with all its lovely contrasts
in tone and texture. And
there are also the often-
overlooked treasures of len-
ticel, leaf-scar, and pith.

471

472 NATURE ADVENTURING IN WINTER

Lenticels are the breathing pores of trunk and
branches, rough spots usually round but often
elongated either horizontally or vertically. Find
them and compare them on many kinds of trees.

Leaf-scars are the scars on branches left by the
end of the stem of a now-fallen leaf. The size and
shape of these vary greatly as does the arrange-
ment within the scar of the dots which show the
position of the tiny pipe lines that connected the
leaf with the tree. Examined with a hand lens,
these are surprising and rewarding. One could take
an impression of lenticels and leaf—scars in model-
ing clay and reproduce them in plaster.

The pith is at the center of every branch, a small
area with a characteristic shape for each group.
For instance, all oaks have star-shaped pith. Of
course one has to cut off a small branch to see the
pith and this should be done correctly and con-
servatively. Two Girl Scout friends of mine in the
Middle W'est are developing this kind of collection
as a hobby—and an entrancing one it is. They let
me share in it by collecting western woods for
them and they send me some of their finished
samples. They weather the wood for from four to
six months, then saw it in quarter-inch slices, then
polish these to a satin smoothness with different
grades of sandpaper. The result is surprisingly
beautiful to the eye and to the finger-tips, and you
would never believe there would be such contrasts
in color, width of annual growth rings, prominence
of medullary rays, and shape of pith. Because
many woods “check” and crack badly in drying,
my friends collect twelve—inch pieces; and because
bark usually chips off anyway, the sections are
finished uniformly without the bark. Theirs are
an inch and a quarter or an inch and a half in
diameter. What a rewarding winter one could
spend waking up to an awareness of contrasts and
possibilities in bare trees—not overlooking the
charm of their silhouettes and the tracery of bare
branches against the sky.

To the City-Dwellers, the Zoo

For city-dwellers with an available Zoo, there is
inexhaustible interest in watching “captive wild
animal behavior. Discover for yourself three uses
a kangaroo has for its tail, and how differently it
uses its front and hind feet. Watch the cud-chew-
ers. It is definitely an experience to see a giraffe
unswallow and swallow its cud up and down a
good eight feet of neck. If you don’t know the color
and length of a giraffe’s tongue, or how it manages
to eat something that is on-the ground (since its

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Lo: Angeles, Cal.

Tracking wild fowl
has ifs own charms

front legs are longer than its neck) there’s a sur-
prise in store for you. One solution for the problem
is common. My last long observation of a giraffe
disclosed a second, very unusual solution I had
never even heard of, most amusing to watch.

Can you, offhand, draw a rough outline of a
zebra and show how the stripes run, especially
where the head and legs join the body? Or a
tiger’s? There’s not an animal at a Zoo that won’t
richly repay long, careful study of its appearance
and, better still, of its behavior.

Lore and Lure of Rocks

Last but not least there are the possibilities of—
fered by rocks and minerals whenever weather
permits. That is my own latest hobby, delayed
these many years because I am so partial to a
living world. Minerals may not be alive in a bio—
logical sense but I am finding this a very lively
hobby. We go about it this way. Our State Di-

-vision of Mines (and I am sure yours also) issues

a bulletin listing every mineral found in every
county and giving more or less detail as to where
in each county each is found. I note these for my
own and near-by counties and then we fare forth
in search of the ones that sound most intriguing.
With gas plentiful after a war-long shortage, ex-
cursions are doubly welcome. Just last week I
read that “Mountain Leather” has been found in
large sheets in a limestone quarry near Santa
Cruz. It looks and feels like thin, poor quality
leather but is a mineral, related to asbestos. I had

(Continued on page 493)
RECREATION

Window Nature Study

wo WINDOWS close to—

gether make a good minia—

ture laboratory. Windows
on the south, east, or west,
side of the school are best. Sunlight can be shut
off from a south window but cannot be made to
shine directly through a north window. The space
between the two windows should be free of orna-
ment. One that can be fitted with a clean piece of
wallboard in which thumbtacks may be placed
without injury to woodwork offers the most op—
portunities.

A reasonably broad shelf at the base of each
window may be used for aquaria, potted plants,
insect cages, and the like. The shelves should be
protected by some waterproof material such as
linoleum, oilcloth, or one of the special materials
used to cover the walls of bathrooms. Radiators
below the window sills need not bar the use of the
windows if the heat can be shut off temporarily.

Two shades are needed at each window. One,
as dark as possible, should be so fitted that light
can be almost wholly shut off. The other should be
semi-transparent or translucent so that some light
can pass through. Venetian blinds can be used,
but they are not too satisfactory. Windows with
two frames that may be raised and lowered at will
are better than those hinged on the side, but these
may be used. Those with large panes of glass are
best.

Pieces of colored glass or of transparent colored
cellophane should be available for certain of the
studies. These may be fastened temporarily to the
regulation panes of glass with any suitable adhes-
ive material such as gummed tape. This equip-
ment is cheap and will permit intriguing studies
with lights of different colors and densities.

One of the windows should have a regulation
storm window, tightly ht-
ted and relatively perma-
nent. The other should
have a screen such as is
used in the summer to
keep out insects. This
screen is kept on during
winter.

A third unscreened win-
dow,or possibly the screen-

DECEMBER 1945

By E. LAURENCE PALMER

Professor of Rural Education
New York State College of Agriculture

"Places where nature cannot be induced to
present something interesting to watch are
rare indeed," says Professor Palmer in an arti-
cle,-"Outdoor Laboratories," in the fall issue

of Cornell Rural School Leaflet. The sug-
gestions offered regarding ways in which
windows ma be used as miniature nature lab-
oratories wil be helpful to recreation work-
ers as well as, to the.teachers to whom the
article is 'addreSSed. Used by permission.

covered window, may be used
as a bird feeding station if an
opening that can be opened
or closed is made in the screen
to get food to the birds. The window might well
be near some ornamental woody plant, although
this is not necessary. Outside, a shelf about a foot
wide should be built across the width of the win-
dow. This may be hinged to the base of the win-
dow so that it can be dropped to ‘dispose of the
accumulated refuse. A canopy of evergreen
branches will keep snow from covering the food
placed there. A simpler arrangement is to tack a
small single branch of evergreen to one side of the
window, preferably on the side from which the
wind is most likely to blow. Suet may be fastened
to this branch by a cord or a string net, but not by
wires, for the cold metal might seriously injure a
bird’s eye.

A storage cupboard for food is needed some-
where near the feeding station. A variety of foods
in separate small containers enables one to study
preferences of the station’s visitors.

Pictures of birds feeding at a station may be
taken indoors. Pictures taken through a south win:
dow will probably be only black silhouettes. Those
taken through a window where the birds appear
in direct sunlight are usually successful if one has
a camera with a long enough bellows.

A window feeding station may serve also as a
trap site for banding birds if one is qualihed to do
this. Bands and directions for making traps for
different kinds of birds and licenses for engaging
in the work may be obtained by qualihed observers
from the Fish and Wildlife Service in Chicago,
Illinois.

Occasionally waste food scattered from a feed-
ing station onto the ground may attract rats and
similar undesirable ani-
mals. Rats may go directly
to the source of supply, if
the window is low or can
be reached by vines on ad-
jacent walls. Usually it is
best to bar the approaches
by pieces of smooth metal
to which rats cannot cling
safely.

473

i;

474 WINDOW NATURE STUDY

If the windows are close to
tree branches, squirrels may be at-
tracted to the feeding stations.
Raisins tacked at intervals along
branches may lead a squirrel to in—
vestigate a window site that he
might not otherwise visit. Both
squirrels and birds at a station
offers competition that may make
the station most interesting to ob-
servers.

One of the better books for the
observer of birds is A Guide to
Bird Watching, by Joseph Hickey,
published by the Oxford Press of
New York City. It should be use—
ful in any school library.

. Teachers may hesitate to estab-
lish window laboratories for fear
that house plants and aquaria may
not survive severe winter weather.
Usually those that cannot stand
severe cold may be taken to a safe
place during the winter vacation,
but need not be removed on week-
ends. Some years ago the Leaflet
staff kept such house plants as
geraniums, coleus, begonias, and
heliotropes out of doors on a win—
dow sill each winter week end.
Only the heliotrope did not sur-
vive.

Aquaria or plants that can be
moved easily from the window
shelf may be placed in a large box
that can be closed rather tightly.
This box is then packed in a still larger box, with
the space between filled with crushed waste paper
which forms the necessary insulation.

An insulated cover may be placed over and under
plants or aquaria that cannot be conveniently re-
moved. A box or a frame of wire may be used to
support a few quilts, or a large box may be placed
over a smaller one that is large enough to cover
the living things on the window sill, and the space
between the two insulated with old quilts.

The feathered and furred “folks” are not the
only ones to be studied from these window labora-
tories; in fact, many birds and mammals will never
willingly visit one. But flies, wasps, bugs, and
moths will seek places largely because their in-
stincts are such that they Can’n'o't help“ doing so,

 

Photo by Keynote 12:. Lemon

and spiders will haunt places where flies and other
insects abound. .

Possibly more interesting to some teachers will
be the lessons in physical science. These range
from astronomy through meteorology to physics
and chemistry. A single small hole through a dark
window shade at a south-facing window may teach
facts fundamental to the understanding of the
movements of the earth and sun. The periodic and
systematic observance of the movements of a sun—
beam can through a year be more significant than
diagrams in books or courses of study.

In winter the windows will yield many observa—
tions, particularly if one of two adjacent windows
has a storm window. The anchored air between

( C ontz'mwd on page 491)

RECREATION

 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  

once, and after that

you’re a friend.” That’s
the slogan of the Detroit
Friendship Club, an organiza-
tion that grew out of the avalanche of applications
from unattached men and women of thirty-Eve
years of age and over who wanted to meet each
other in a socially approved manner, and who
banded together because of their need for com—
panionship. This pioneering experiment in the
held of human relationg, now more than a year
old, revealed dramatically what a tremendous
. mount of loneliness is hidden in a large city, and
showed how a little cooperation from the local rec-
reation department can add zest and comfort to the
lives of those past their youth.

IlYou’RE ONLY a stranger

Organization

For the opening meeting arrangements were
nade to accommodate about six hundred people in
. centrally located recreation center, but no one
could foresee that the launching of the club would
draw such multitudes as poured into the overbur-
dened building long before the opening hour of
ight o’clock. They jammed the auditorium. They
locked the halls and stairway and even stood
ight abreast on the avenue outside of the building
nd all around it. And still the street cars and
buses disgorged more crowds. Hostesses re—
ruited from the Parks and Recreation Stream-
liners, uniformed women’s service group, tried to
'give out name tags and distribute questionnaires
' designed to find out what types of programs the
_people wanted.

Finally, with traffic snarled up and the streets
around'the building impassable, a halt was called
to the proceedings. Fortunately
we had foreseen that there
might possibly be an overflow
and had taken care to make ar—
rangements for the use of a
high school auditorium in the
vicinity—just in case it was
needed.

Instructions were given to
the Streamliners to start the
march to the high school three

DECEMBER 1945

For all the triendless and the lonely
strangers in the city. Detroit's Friend-
ship Clubs have a slogan—"You're
only a stranger once, and after that
you're a friend." John J. Considine
tells tor RECREATION the history of
that slogan and what it has meant in
the lives of hundreds of newcomers
and lonesome people to whom the
making of friends in a strange envir-
onment is ‘not an easy thing‘ to’do.

Detroit's Friendship Club

By JOHN J. CONSIDINE

General Superintendent
Department of Parks and Recreation

Detroit. Michigan

blocks away, and with great
congeniality the crowds from
the sidewalks followed. Shortly
after, the recreation center was
emptied and the high school
auditorium, with a seating capacity of 2,900, had
few vacant seats. This took care of the crowd for
the evening, but of course any plan to organize
was stymied by the tremendous numbers. Obvi-
ously any club with friendship as its aim would
have to start out with small groups so that people
could become thoroughly acquainted.

Eventually a plan was worked out. The group
was broken into units small enough for the people
to become acquainted easily, and each unit was as-
signed a separate evening in the recreation center.
The city’s mailing zones were used as a basis for
grouping the members, on the theory that people
living in the same zones could come to the meet-
ings and go home together.

Set-Up

Each unit has elected its own officers, and for
over-all planning there is an executive board com—
posed of five representatives from each unit. There
are now four units of people over forty_years of
age and one unit for those between thirty—five and
forty.

The center used is located on the fringe of the
down-town section, easily accessible from all direc-
tions. It has three floors and is ideally suited for
such a club. The t0p floor auditorium is used for
entertainments, card playing, and shuffleboard. An-
other floor has tables for ping-pong, pool, checkers,
and other games. A section of the first floor is
being resurfaced to accommodate both modern and
square dancing. During the summer there were .
picnics, boat rides, hikes, and
outings of many kinds. Indi-
viduals opened their summer
cottages to their new friends
and in many ways proved their
hospitality.

The Beginning

The whole thing started
when a letter came to the
“Experience Column” in the

475

476 DETROIT’S FRIENDSHIP CLUB

Detroit News, stating the case explicitly for the
men and women of middle age, newcomers in
Detroit, who were up against the discouraging
prospect of meeting people of the same age and
somewhat similar tastes. The letter was signed
“Reluctant Recluse” and the writer described him-
self as a fifty-year-old widower. He suggested
that some agency might take the initiative in start-
ing a club. Through it pe0ple could have the chance
to get acquainted with each other and spend one
or more evenings each week in social activities.

The editor of the “Experience Column” pub-
lished the letter, and a flood of responses indicated
that there were many “Reluctant Recluses.” The
editor conferred with us to see if help might come
from the Detroit Parks and Recreation Commis-
sion. The president of the Commission assured
the editor of our eagerness to cooperate if the in—
terest-was sufliciently widespread. This question
was asked through the column and the flood of
replies indicated decisively how great a need there
was for a club offering the things these people
wanted so desperately; a decent place to meet, a
few simple facilities for social diversion, and lead-
ership to help plan and carry out a program.

Evaluation

The club has been in operation for a year now
and the five units have a membership of 2,800. The
newest unit is made up of 250 men and women
between thirty-five and forty years of age who
were excluded from the other units because of
their youth.

After a year the members shake their heads as
they think of the old days when they spent so many
empty hours in lonely rooms and apartments. That
was when time hung heavy on their hands and
invitations to go out and do things were few.
There was no one to share their happiness or
their troubles.

When asked what this club meant to her, a
women in her forties who lost one son overseas
and has flVC others in the service replied: “It has
meant a whole new life to me. Since my boys have
gone, I dreaded going home from work because of
the lonely evenings ahead of me, but all that has
been changed. Without the"staunch support of the
friends in this club I don’t think I could have
rallied when I got word that my boy was killed in
service. I felt that each of them was sharing my
sorrow and somehow that made it easier to bear-
I wasn’t alone any more.” 7 7

A man who was transferred to Detroit a year
ago said, “Last year at this time I didn’t know a
soul in Detroit. But for this club I’d just be sit-
ting around in my room during the evening, may-
be taking in a casual movie. I’m not one for doing
things by myself. Now in addition to coming to
the building for activities of the club, I bowl on
Sunday afternoons with fellow club members.
Others invite me for dinner, and we have outings
together. My leisure time is now very well taken
care of and I’m mighty happy about it.”

Primarily these people banded together for com-
panionship and recreation, but they stick together
when adversity strikes one of their members. One
unit made up a purse of $25 for a member who
had been hospitalized and needed funds. A weekly
check is sent to another club member who was
forced to stop work for an operation and has not
yet obtained her allotment from her son in service.

Having known loneliness, these people do every-
thing in their power to see that it doesn’t return to
any member. If a member is sick one of the others
is delegated to attend to his wants. An ill member
doesn’t lack for greeting cards, visitors, and even
financial assistance if that is needed. ’

The individual units support each other’s ac-
tivities loyally, and periodically there are all-unit
parties or dances given outside the building. One
dance was given during the Infantile Paralysis
Drive and the crowd overflowed the largest hotel
ball room in the city, netting a generous sum for
the National Foundation.

The first anniversary party was another gala
affair. It symbolized for the members a year of
happy association and warm fellowship with men
and women of like interests and signified the com—
plete obliteration of the bitter days before the
Friendship Club was organized when they had no
one with whom to share their joys and their sor-
rows—endless evenings when the only surcease
from loneliness was the temporary diversion of the
neighborhood movie or the corner tavern. The
Parks and Recreation Commission is proud of its
share in bringing so much happiness to so many
people.

Roanoke, Virginia, too, has a Friendship Club.
Here parties are held by the Department of Parks
and Recreation twice each month with programs
planned in advance by the Supervisor of Social
Recreation and members of the club. Attendance i
records testify to the need and success of the ’
program. '

RECREATION '

' Music for the Multitude

UGENE FIELD, I think it was, once wrote in a
E poem called “Grandmother’s Prayer” the
famous lines:

“I’ve never learned to sing or play
So let no harp be mine.”

Fewer grandmothers of the future, though they
may “be content to mend the little angels’ britches,”
will be able to qualify as musical illiterates, for all
over the country, in small towns and in great cities,
the people of these United States are learning to
“sing or play.” They are not necessarily preparing
to become star performers on the concert platform.
They are coming to know the joy of getting to—
gether in small groups or large to sing or to play
the instrument of their choice whether it be a har-
monica or an English horn. People no longer look
askance at a lover of music as just a little “queer.”
As listeners and as “creators” we are becoming
more and more a musically intelligent people—and
not a moment too soon!

Part, at least, of the credit for this metamor—
phosis must go to radio which, in the past twenty-
flve years, has brought great music, both classical
and modern, to people who have never seen a sym-
phony orchestra or a great chorus in action. An

amazingly large number of people, according to the
latest Crosley rating — that

mysterious system for judg-
ing the popularity of a radio
program—count that week
lost which has not included
for them a concert Of the
Philharmonic or the Na-
tional Broadcasting Com-
pany’s Symphony or the Bos-
ton Symphony heard “over
the airwaves.”

But credit must also go to
recreation departments which
have created local music “pro-
ducers” ranging all the way
from the rhythm bands of
preschool children to opera
companies and symphony or-
chestras. For, by the efforts
of those departments, thou-
sands of people all over the
land have come to know that
you don’t have to be a genius

DECEMBER 1945

to find the best sort of recreation through partici-
pation in a music program.

The fall bulletins of two recreation agencies re-
port music for and by “the people” as part of their
1945-46 schedules.

San Francisco

The music section of San Francisco’s Recreation
Department was established in 1928. The Depart—
ment’s bulletin, Rte-Creation, for October 8 carries
a preview of music opportunities open to San
Franciscans during the fall and winter of 1945-46.

The San Francisco Civic Symphony, organized
in 1931 and led by an outstanding conductor and
composer, is open to all musicians and music stu—
dents whose musical ability is adequate to the
demands of symphonic playing. The members of
this group rehearse twice weekly and perform in
informal concerts and in the Department’s annual
Summer Festival and Christmas Program.

Children, singing in playground choruses, learn
good music standards through songs especially

(Continued on page 494)

A rhythm band in Teaneck. N. J.

 

C ou'rtesy Department of Recreation, Tenneck, N. I.

477

What They Say About Recreation

H use 15 AS OLD as the world itself . . . older,
perhaps, for all about us is evidence of its
presence in nature . - . in the rhythmical

changes of the seasons; the movements of the sun,

the moon and the stars.”-—-—Rutli V. Mathews in

You. Need Music.

“Helping today’s children should become our
greatest contribution to tomorrow, for which we
joititly, men and women, are directly responsible.”
———From Youth and Your Community.

“The only way in which we can educate for lei—
sure—or for any other purpose under heaven——-is
by awakening sensitized surfaces in the individual.
Certainly for leisure the essence lies in the fact
that it represents the expression of our inner urge,
and the vocabulary for this expression. so rude, so
halting, so stumbling in most of us, is acquired
through our sensitiveness to books and arts and
crafts and sports and out of doors.” ~-— Mary
('olemau.

“A truly noble man may be defined as one who
stands by a good cause or organization even after
he knows a lot about it.”—-—.lames Myers.

“The first lesson a child must learn in order to
live a normal, healthy life is community coopera-
tion, and the playgrounds of our city are great

training centers in teaching this lesson.”——Judge
Oscar A. H unsicleer, Akron, Ohio.

 

“\V e leaders in recreation have responsibility for
encouraging increased emphasis on recreation in
the neighborhoods and communities in which we
live, in the churches in which we worship, and in

the schools in which our children are trained."—
Dr. Philip L. Semen.

“We can think of no way in which public monies
can be spent with greater return than on a pro-
gram which provides for safe, well supervised
playgrounds for our children.”—Hou. E. D. Friteli.
Akron, Ohio.

“I believe that in creative hands lies the balance
wheel of man’s inner life.”——-—Edward T. Hall in
Handy—the Great Balance Wheel. 7 i

478

“The path to the new social order is the path
from my house to my neighbors’.”

“A community center may .be described most
simply as an association of neighbors handed to—
gether in a spirit of cooperation. It is not commu-
nity spirit, but is rather the means by which that
spirit finds creative expression. It is not just a
building, although a building may become part of
it and give tangible form to it. The first step in
planning a community center is in terms of human
beings and their needs, together with their latent
strengths and possibilities, rather than merely in
terms of brick and mortar and amenities.”———Jolm
P. Kidd in Coumtunity Centers.

“There are wider horizons and richer valleys of
opportunity unfolding before young people today
than ever before in history”-—-F. W. Nichol.

“Nick, it’s like this. We meet on a street corner
and a cop runs us off. We go to the recreation
centers and the big boys won’t let us in. We can’t
go to the movie because we haven’t any money.
What are we going to do P”—From a “juvenile dc-
liuqueut” to the Columbus, Ohio, Recreation Di-
rector.

“The war has produced no evidence that playing
a violin or table tennis or golf, liking chess or
dancing, football, baseball 'or hockey is a detri-
ment to fighting qualities. . . . On the contrary,
men who keep alive their interest in fine arts and
sports seem to work as hard, and maybe with more
spirit.”-——G. Ott Romney in Off the Job Living.

“Other relaxations are peculiar to certain times,
places and stages of life, but the study of letters is
the nourishment of our youth, and the joy of our
old age.”—-——Cicero.

“After our civilization has long since passed and
is a mere footnote in the memory of men, Christ-
mas will yet live in the hearts of whatever races
are then still extant. They will keep Christmas
alive because it has in itself undying qualities.”—-——

Abbie-Graham" in Time 01} and On.

RECREATION

U. S. O. to Y-O-U

the first birthday party of the

South Tacoma Community
Center which was formerly a
U.S.O. Center. Over 400 per-
sons were in the audience. Citizens of the neigh—
horhood were “running the show.” Neighbors
were participating in the square dancing. Children
and youth were displaying their talents on the
stage. For the first time in a year, I felt a slight
chill go up my backbone. The community had
finally accepted the former U.S.O. building as
their center.

Eighteen months ago soldiers from near—by Ft.
Lewis were by-passing the USO. Center, located
in a beautiful park on the main highway between
Ft. Lewis and Tacoma and approximately five
miles from the center of the city. South Tacoma is
a typical district business center and the South
Tacoma Community Center is just on the edge of
the business area. Many homes are in the vicinity
of the Community Center. Since the USO. was
not being used by servicemen and women, the

IIIAVE JUST returned from

Fun for the young

 

 

DECEMBER 1945

By THOMAS W. LANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation

City of Tacoma. Washington
PART I

Federal Security Agency asked
the Metropolitan Park District
Commissioners to operate the
building inasmuch as the fa—
cility was located on Park
ioard property.

Promoting a $75,000 U.S.O. building was a new
venture for the Park Board. Some members viewed
the new project with suspicion. They knew the
operation of such a center would cost money and
no money had been provided in the budget for
“another” center. I was asked to submit a budget
for the operation from July to December, 1944.
The figures were not large but I could detect a
feeling in the minds of the Park Board members
that they were not too enthusiastic over a pro-
posed six months budget of $3,792. This amount
covered the salaries of a full time director, assistant
director and caretaker; oil, light and power, tele-
phone and water service; recreation equipment and
building supplies. Revenues from the rental of the
building were estimated at $1,300.

The Park Board employed a former U.S.O.
worker as the first director. Because of her knowl—
edge of the community and its civic-minded citi—
zens, she was asked to
organize, immediately, a
Citizens Association to be
known as the South Ta-
coma Community Center
Association. The director
called the initial meeting
of twenty-five leaders rep-
resenting civic clubs,
business organizations,
labor groups, churches,
P.T.A., war industries,
and the Special Services
of the U. S. Army. At
this first meeting, I ex—
plained the purpose of
the Association which is
“To promote and develop
athletic, dramatic, musi-
cal, social, civic and
neighborhood programs
in order to inspire and
further community neigh—

479

borliness and good citizenship. This Association
shall assist the community authorities in promot-
ing recreation for youths and adults.”

A temporary chairman and secretary were ap-
pointed. The temporary chairman appointed a
nominating committee to prepare a slate of ochers
comprising a president, hrst vice-president, second
vice—president, secretary and treasurer. Finally
permanent oiiicers were elect-
ed, a constitution and by-laws
were adopted and meetings of
the Executive Committee
were held. This took time
but it was very important.
The greatest single problem
confronting us was the fact
that nobody in the neighbor-
hood felt the center was their
center. W’hy should they? It
was handed to them on a

It seems probable that more and more
communities will be faced with the prob-
lem and the opportunity that came to
leaders of recreation in TacomaI Wash.
The experience of that city in taking
over a U.S.O. building for a community
program is reported by Tacoma's Super-
intendent of Recreation in two parts.
the first of which appears on these
pages. in the hope that Tacoma's experi-
ence will prove interesting and, per-
haps, helpful to other communities. less the people of South

U. S. 0. AND Y-O-U

 

and the old

 

silver platter! This point is one in which present
U.S.O. officials may well be of great help to us,
who will eventually inherit U.S.O. buildings. The
transition period, however, will be discussed later
in this article.

The Executive Committee meets monthly with
the director' of the center and approves or disap-
proves the use of the building by organizations
wishing to rent it. A sub-
committee was appointed to
study the whole matter of
fees and charges. The Execu-
tive Committee discusses pro-
gram development with the
director and recommends new
activities.

Although the Metropolitan
Park Board finances the oper-
ation of the center, neverthe—

RECREATION

 

U.S.0.AND Y—O-U 481

Tacoma recommend all policies to the Park Board
and the policies are practically always approved.

The Park Board expected a certain amount of
revenue from the building, therefore the rental
fees for the use of the building on Monday and
Thursday as recommended by the Executive Com-
mittee of the Center to the Park Board were ap-
proved as follows:

 

 

Students

and Neighbor-

Number Afternoon Evening hood Groups
Up to 50 $ 7.50 $12.50 $ 8.00
Up to 100 12.50 17.50 11.00
Up to 150 20.00 25.00 14.00
Up to 200 30.00 35.00 17.00
Up to 300 35.00 40.00 23.00
Up to 400 45.00 50.00 30.00

 

Use of lounge, clubroom and kitchen: afternoon,
$5 ; evening, $7. 50:

Clubroom and kitchen (for light refreshments),
$2.

Service in each checkroom, $3.

Special charge of $5 per hour for use of the
building after midnight.

The Park Board and the Community Center
Association wanted especially to serve the children
and young people, first, in the building. Friday
night was set aside for Junior High age boys and
girls, Saturday afternoons for grade school chil-
dren, and Saturday night for boys and girls in
high school. No charge is made for these particu—
lar activities. The building also serves as an after-
school and evening drop-in center for youngsters
when it is not rented or scheduled for other activi—
ties. The Junior High and Senior High nights are
in the nature of a “Teen-Age Canteen” with boys
and girls of both age groups appointing their own
committees to plan the programs. The director of
the center works with all youth committees but
remains in the background and guides by means
of indirection.

One of the most difficult problems was to inter-
est adults in activities offered free of charge. The
war had something to do with the problem as many
adults were on different shifts in war plants.
Finally an Old-Time Dancing group was started
and this activity drew many participants. The
dance group now has a professional orchestra and
pays fifty cents per person for the dance. The
activity pays for itself. Badminton for adults was
introduced and continues to be fairly successful.
More recently a Business Girls’ Service Club has
been organized to provide recreation for wounded
soldiers from near-by Ft. Lewis in the Community,

DECEMBER 1945

Center. Card parties for adults are fairly popular.

Because the building is designed for social recre—
ation and not for vigorous physical activities, bas-
ketball is not played. A large auditorium, with a
stage, is furnished with fine furniture, draperies,
and parlor lamps. The question often arises as to
whether the refinements should be removed and
the auditorium space be turned into a gymnasium-
auditorium.

After a period of one year, the rental of the
building has increased rapidly. More persons have
become acquainted with the fact. that the former
U.S.O. building is a neighborhood recreation cen-
ter. Lodges, civic clubs, service wives organiza—
tions, high school clubs, churches, business firms,
P.T.A.’s, sororities and numerous other groups
have rented the building. °

The Park Board approved a budget of $6,684
for the fiscal year, January I to December 31,
1945, as follows:

 

Salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4,704.00

Building Supplies . . . . . . . . .. 240.00

Program Supplies . . . . . . . . .. 500.00

Water, Lights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450.00

Fuel (oil) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 625.00

Telephone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150.00

Garbage Service . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.00
$6,684.00

Revenues amount to a total of $2,339, and of
this amount $1,200 is estimated for building rent—
als and $1,139 actual income for nine months re-
freshment sales at the snack bar.

“Salaries” includes wages of director, part-time
assistant director, fountain girl, custodian. The
Park District recreation equipment supplements
the purchased equipment. The total estimated
budget does not include labor for repairs by Park
District carpenters and plumbers.

The total attendance for each month during the

year 1945 will show how extensively the building
has been used:

January (1945) . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,865

February . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .. 1,842

March . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,809

April . . . . . . . . ..'. . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,489

May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,686

June . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,462

July . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,261

August . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,435

September . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,560

The transition period from the time U.S.O.
stopped Operations until the Metropolitan Park

District assumed responsibility will be reported
next month.

The National Recreation Congress

Atlantic City. New Jersey . . . . . . January 28 - February I, I946

0U WROTE US—many of you—enthusiastic letters about the 1942 Congress held in Cincinnati by the
National Recreation Association. You said, among other things,

“I came home from the Cincinnati Congress better prepared to meet recre-
ation needs in my schools.”

‘.‘A great many ideas that were used in the playheld were gotten by the
writer at the National Recreation War Congress in Cincinnati.”

\

“It was really very successful, one of the best that I ever attended.”

In 1942 none of the people who had, together, put their individual minds and their collective
mind to work on matters recreational—none of those people probably thought that four years would
have to elapse before they would be able to repeat the process of re-creation and re-stimulation that

comes when a group of enthusiasts get together to “swap” ideas and problems and successes and fail-
ures and discussions and anecdotes and experiences and friendships. And so it is that January 28—
February I is marked on our calendars ‘with large red circles, is looked forward to with anticipation.
And so it is that we repeat with confidence the slogan for Atlantic City—1946

FORWARD

IN

RECREATION

For, here is an opportunity to exchange experience, to learn what others are doing, are thinking.
‘Lay and professional leaders face common problems together.

More than 1,200 local city, town, village government recreation units are using local tax funds

for recreation and need to plan together. Privately supported agencies have their problems, too. Work-
«ers in industry are also greatly concerned about recreation.

Already many have listed the problems they wish discussed.

It has been found that local recreation executives and chairmen wish to have the following sec-
:tion meetings:

Teen-Age Centers

Living Memorials in the Recreation Field

Service of State Government Bureaus in the Recreation Field

Why Some Playgrounds Are Successful While Others Fail

Use of School Buildings for Recreation

Recreation for Older People

Why Some Indoor Recreation Centers Are a Great Success and Others Not
Training Recreation \Norkers (Colleges, In-Service, and Volunteers)
Recreation Services for Women and Girls

Recreation in Rural Areas

Recreation Problems in. Communities of. 15,000 or .Under

482 - RECREATION

-.*-.A .—-u'- . _

-I_-—-_

' 3—“-

THE NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS 483

Activity Problems (Music and Drama; Athletics and Games; Outing Problems;
and Arts, Crafts, and Hobbies)

Planning Recreation Buildings
Planning Recreation Areas and Facilities

Securing War Recreation Buildings for Community Use. Purchase of War Supplies
and Equipment

Service of Federal Government Bureaus to State Government Bureaus and to
Others Concerned with Recreation

Personnel Problems

Long-time Planning in the Recreation Field

Special Problems in Colored Communities

Recreation Problems in Communities of About 50,000

How to Present a Budget for Recreation to Appropriating Bodies
Recreation in Housing and Real Estate Developments

Sharing Recreation Experience with Smaller Communities Near—by through
Conferences

Boys and Girls and Other Clubs
Telling the Story of Recreation
Recreation for Incapacitated Servicemen
State Recreation Associations

Provision is being made also for extra small meetings.

Consultants national and local will attempt in individual conferences to share their experience
and their thought.

Laymen, board members, volunteer leaders in activities, recreation superintendents, recreation
specialists, professional playground and recreation center leaders—all will be present and participate in
the discussion, which is open to all.

Park leaders, school leaders and representatives of many different kinds of groups will present
their points of view.

Can we not hope for at least two delegates from each city and town with municipal recreation and
of course many more delegates from the larger cities?

INDUSTRIAL RECREATION CONFERENCE

For the convenience of the hundreds of industrial leaders who see
the increasing need for a' recreation program in their plants, but who find
it hard if not impossible to get away from those plants during the week,
there will be special sessions to consider their plans and programs and
problems. The conference on industrial recreation will begin at luncheon

on Sunday, January 27 and continue through the afternoon of Monday,

January 28.
Of course, all industrial representatives who can do so are cordially

invited to attend the subsequent meetings of the Congress which will
continue through Friday, February 1.

 

DECEMBER 1945

l’r's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

AGRICULTURE. “The Agricultural Student,
His Opportunities and Choice of Job.”

Vol. 41, No. 3, September 7, 1943. University of
Illinois, College of Agriculture, Urbana, Ill. 36 pp.

C h ildrert’s Museums. From “somewhere in New
Guinea” not long ago came a letter containing
drawings of animal feet, ears and noses together
with a request for their identification. The letter

was received by the Children’s Museum at Ja-
maica Plains, Boston.

Darwinism. “Social Darwinism in American
Thought, 1860-1915,” by Richard Hofstadter.
University of Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia.
191 pp. $2.50. Somewhat philosophical.

Dogs. Five breeds of dogs were found best for
Army purposes. They were the German Shep-
herd, Belgian Sheep, Doberman Pinscher, Collie,

and Schnauzer. '

Farming. “Future Farmers of America in Ac-
tion,” prepared by the National F.F.A., in co—
operation with the U. S. Office of Education. In-
terstate Printing Co., Danville, Ill. 24 pp. $.10.

Forming. “Your Farming Program,” by Carsie
Hammonds and W. R. Tabb. Trafton Publishing
Co., Lexington, Ky. 166 pp. Illus. $1.50. This is
the story of the progress from small beginnings to
real establishment in farming addressed to boys.

Florida. “That Vanishing Eden: A Natural-
ist’s Florida,” by Thomas Barbour. Little, Brown

and Co., Boston. 250 pp. Illus. $3.00. Emphasizes
conservation.

“Food for the World,” edited by Theodore W.

Schultz. University of Chicago Press. 353 pp.
Illus. $3.50. Paradox: food
surpluses and malnutrition.

“Forestry in Vocational
Agriculture,” by Henry C.
Groseclose. Bulletin of Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute.
Blacksburg, Virginia. August

I945- 75 PP-
Gcology. “Principles of

484

"One of the worst things that can hap-
pen to human beings at this critical
stage of civilization is to fail to receive
a full share of the recreation, the under-
standing' the vision that comes from
Nature. The wonderful and diverse liv-
ing things of this earth are the dy-
namic expression of Nature's proces-
ses."—Faicfield Osborn in Bulletin
of the New York‘ Zoological Society.

Physical Geology,” by Arthur Holmes. Ronald
Press Co., New York. 640 pp. Illus. $4.00.

Indiana. “The Climate of Indiana,” by S. S.
Visher. Indiana University. 511 pp. Illus. Climate
in relation to social and economic affairs. i

Indians. “The Hopi Way,” by Laura Thomp-
son and Alice Joseph. University of Chicago
Press. 151 pp. Illus. $3.00. An Indian way to

peace.

Jefferson, Thomas. “Thomas Jefferson’s Gar—
den Book,” annotated by Edwin M. Betts. The
American PhiIOSOphical Society. 704 pp. Illus.
$5.00. Personal notes.

Nature Recreation. Colleges train for leader-
ship. Nature recreation,is a new profession in
leadership. There can be no doubt of its efficacy.
A leader with a little imagination and understand—
ing, and maybe with only a smattering of nature
knowledge, may draw from a great reservoir. If
he can tap nature resources he will be more effici-
ent in contributing to the up-surge of mental

radiance.

Nature Recreation. The simplest responses to
nature are often the most significant. We have
not been walled off in cities long enough to be
free of “grass roots” of health. An important part
of the rehabilitation of the service personnel lies

imbedded in nature.

“Pacific Islands Handbook, The, 1944,” by R.
W. Robson, F.R.G.S. Macmillan Co., New York.

371 pp. Illus. $4.00.
Postwar Recreation. The need to face a chal-

lenge seems to be the essence of postwar planning.

Recreation in the future will
be a people’s movement. We
must help the veteran to help
himself.

Winter World. Nature is as
exciting in winter as she is in
summer. The trouble is that too
few people have experienced
winter’s natural possibilities.

RECREATION

 

WORLD AT PLAY

CHICAGO’S neighbor-
hood libraries have in-
troduced' a new and
interesting feature into
their 1945 fall schedules. For six months librari-
ans, teachers and laymen studied the techniques of
book discussion leadership to the end they might
lead interested adults in reading and discussing
eighteen of the great books of the past. During the
fall and winter, groups will meet each week in their
neighborhood libraries and discuss such works as
Plato’s Apology and Karl Marx’s Communist
zlfanifesto. Nor is this activity planned as one
where the leaders do all the work while the mem-
bers of the group sit and listen apathetically. Each
of the participants is warned that two or three
hours a week of good hard reading will be ex-
pected of him and that he will be expected “to
submit his views to critical examination.”

Reading with a
Purpose

 

WHEN Lincoln, N e-
braska, in common
with many cities, was
forced to face the problem of increasing vandalism
and carelessness in the use of public property, rec-
reation ofiicials initiated a Citizenship, Sportsman-
ship and Activity program with awards for points
in each category. The results have amazed every-
one associated with the program. Misuse of play-
ground property has almost entirely ceased and
damage to equipment such as paddles and balls is
negligible. So interested are the children that they
repair a great deal of equipment themselves.

A child may win two awards, a major and a
minor, by accumulating the required points. Lead-
ers sign up those who wish to participate and
hundreds have joined or won awards which are
presented at a simple ceremony at the playground.
Rules and publicity material are posted on the
playground bulletin board.

Playground Awards

 

Arts and Crafts in
Los An geles

 

THE Recreation De-
partment of Los An—
geles, California, is of-
fering an interesting
program in arts and crafts for children and adults
this fall. On Saturday, children are instructed in
painting and drawing, the building of model air-

 

DECEMBER 194s

planes, and clay modeling. For adults there are
classes in ceramics, costume jewelry, art metal-
craft, loom weaving, and fine arts, and there is a
special class in ceramics and metalcraft for mem-

bers of the Braille group.

THE Y. M. C. A. Mo—
tion Picture Bureau
has finished its first
instructional picture. Play Volley Ball, a two reel,
16 mm. sound film, is now ready for distribution.
It uses slow motion and freeze frames to insure
careful instruction for both beginners and advanced
players in such fundamentals as serving, passing,
spiking, defense plays, and team play.

Teaching by Films

THE Philadelphia Pub-
lic Schools, in c00per-
ation with many neigh—
borhood organizations.
have resumed extensive youth recreation-edu-
cation programs in nine adult evening schools,
three junior high schools and two elementary
schools. The programs include social, folk and
square dancing; metal, wood and electrical shop
work; art, music, cooking; sewing; hobby crafts;
and activities in the gymnasium, library and audi-
torium. In every case activities are selected- be-
cause of their interest to the youth served. In the
organization of the youth centers, the c00perative
efforts of youth, parents, community councils,
social agencies and school authorities have played
important parts.

Youth Recreation in
Philadelphia

SATURDAY, November
I7 was Youth Day at
Madison Square Gar-
den Exhibition Hall in New York City sponsored
by the Metropolitan Youth Council. The Day got
under way at 10:30 with a spot drama contest on
the stage. In a spot drama contest, in case you
didn’t know (as we didn’t), “teams from various
dramatic groups compete by presenting impromptu
dramas on themes suggested by the audience.” At
II :30 the Teen-Age Forum presented a discussion
of “Refugee Youth in America” and watched a dress
rehearsal of WOR’s It": Up to Youth broadcast.
Highlight of the afternoon was the awarding of
prizes in the International Doll Contest.

Youth Day

485

486

 

DIAMOND PITCHING SHOES

Many models of Diamond Official Pitching

Shoes offer fans a wide selection. Drop-

forged from high grade steel—will not chip
or break. Carefully balanced.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond S‘l'andard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and

Official Horseshoe Courts

 
 
  

46l0 Grand Ave., Duluth. Minn.

World Leaders Play—An Associated Press
dispatch July 20th reported that the President of
the United States at the time of the Potsdam Con-
ference played Beethoven’s Minute in G on the
piano, at the joint request of Premier Stalin and
Prime Minister Churchill, as a musical climax to
President Truman’s state dinner.

It is very interesting also to read from time to
time of Prime Minister Churchill slipping away to
paint a picture—taking time off to lay bricks.

We do know how much our public men have
been helped through special leisure time interests
which they have developed.

First Birthday——On October 2, 1945 the Lei-
surette, Youth Center for Negro teen-agers in
Columbus, Georgia, celebrated the first anniversary
of its founding. During the year the Center has
served 923 members, and 500 guests. It has been
governed by a Junior Council of representatives
from each of Columbus’ colored schools, with the
counsel and advice of an Adult Council and a paid
executive secretary. The members of the Leisur-
ettc point with pride to their first anniversary in
their publication, The Le’rette.

WORLD AT PLA Y

A Silver Anniversary -r- It was in January
1920 that the York, Pennsylvania, Recreation
Commission was established. This year the Com-
mission, in celebrating its twenty-Fifth anniversary,
has issued an attractive report telling of its achieve-
ments and giving facts about activities, special ser-
vices and personnel. “An expanded recreation pro-
gram, properly hnanced,” the report states, “would
remain a living memorial to those from York who
are writing a new and brilliant chapter in the his-
tory of the nation and the world.

On They Go!—--The Daytona Beach, Florida,
Youth Council on August 3, 1945 celebrated its
fourth birthday at the regular Friday night orches—
tra dance at the City Recreation Building. The
Council maintained a summer program for Day-
tona Beach and visiting teen-agers, with activities
at the two centers, Wednesday night dances at the
Sheraton Plaza, and Friday night orchestra dances
at the Jungle Room of the city’s largest hotel, the
free use of which was given by the management.
From June 6 through September 5 three hundred
and seventy-five different boys and girls from out
of town attended one or more of the Wednesday
dances. On August 27 the Council presented at the
City Auditorium the play Gold in the Hills.

River Halted for Dance on the Bridge—The
flood gates which control the Genesee River 100
yards above the Court Street Bridge at Rochester,
N. Y., were raised on October 12 to stop the flow
of water, in order that there could be street danc-
ing on the bridge, as Second World War veterans
were welcomed home.

The river is so noisy that the music for the dance
could not be heard unless the river was stopped.

Trees—Basil O’Connor, chairman, American
Red Cross, in American Forests for May, 1945,
declares that trees are his hobby, that he plants a
great many different kinds on his farm in VVest—
hampton, L. I., that his favorite is the Norway
maple. Mr. O’Connor has planted a great many of
his trees himself, has watched them grow with
great satisfaction, has looked after them with his
own hands, spending his free week-end hours
pruning'and tending them. Taking care of his
trees is his favorite diversion when he can get
away from his duties as chairman of the Ameri—
can Red Cross and chairman of the National
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.

RECREATION

MAKES A CHAMPION?

l,

the finest performance . ..
under all playing conditions over

the longest period of time, 04

If
r
I
It
- 0’
~

. rm.

7 SCORING POINTS

V Official size, weight. shape

V No seams.ne flat spots

V Completely waterproof

V Firm grip—easiest to handle
V Best on any playing surface
V All weather playability

THE BEST DEALERS ARE VOIT DEALERS

' a 3' ‘ 5! lo: Angola; 'II 0 I'O No. Wade" Dr. Chicago 6, i . "'"t'h"

DECEMBER 1945

 

488 WORLD AT PLA Y

On the Record—The director of Augusta,
Georgia’s playgrounds is keeping a color film rec-
ord of especially good activities on the playgrounds
and in the parks. Eventually, he plans to splice his
small bits together into a connected story of public
recreation in Augusta to be shown as part of the
weekly movie program in the parks. This seems
like a sound idea, especially now that supplies of
films are getting a little more plentiful.

Recreation Week in Edmonton, Alberta, Can-
ada—September z— 9 was Recreation Week in
Edmonton and during that week the city’s organi-
zations, both public and private, joined with the
Recreation Commission to remind Edmontonians
that “recreation is a necessary part of living; to
focus attention upon the fact that despite the best
efforts of all organizations now active in the recre-
ation field, a very large portion of Edmonton’s
citizens have little or no Opportunity to participate
in leisure time activities; and to turn the spotlight
upon the fact that only through the use of tax
funds for the start and well planned and efficiently
operated public recreation service could whole-
some recreational activities be made available in
even a limited way.”

Each day, morning until night, events were
scheduled covering a wide range of interest and
appealing alike to children, men, and women. The
program opened on Sunday, September 2, with a
Folk Festival at Victoria Park sponsored by the
city through the Allied Arts Council. There were
square dances, and songs and dances from many
nations. National food dishes were served by rep-
resentatives of the various nationalities in the city.

 

Presented in Honor of -— Every now
and then those hard-working people behind the
scenes come into their own share of kudos. Wit-
ness the summer program presented in Summit,
New Jersey in honor of the Board of Recreation
Commission and of twenty years of recreation on
Summit’s playgrounds. The performance was
titled Recreation in Review, as was proper to an
anniversary celebration and it “had a part” for
everyone from the “Tiny Tots” who started the

program to the Commission itself who helped
finish it off.

Girl Scouts Take to the Forests—As a me-
morial to their twice-a-president, Mrs. Herbert
Hoover, the Girl Scouts are planning the Lou
Henry Hoover Memorial ForeSts and Sanctuaries

in property owned or controlled by their organi-
zation throughout the country. Each group of
Scouts must work with Federal or State forestry
or conservation departments in planning local me-
morial areas. And each group must spend a year
surveying their proposed area to find out what
actually grows and lives there. The first of these
memorial sanctuaries and forests has been certified
in Dade County, Florida.

A Recreation Guide for Employees—The
Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company of Mil-
waukee under the title of Recreation has issued an
attractive booklet telling of the recreation activities
conducted for the company’s employees. These
range from bowling and archery to men’s chor-
uses. The booklet is attractively illustrated with
photographs and sketches.

Old Home Week—The forty—fourth annual
Old Home Week was held in Cabot, Vermont,
from August 12 to August 19, 1945. The pro-
gram opened with an old-fashioned service at the
United Church. The congregation came, for the
most part, in old-fashioned costume, a custom
which has been carried on each year since 1901.
Reviving a custom of many years ago a commu—
nity picnic was held immediately after the services.

Other highlights of the week were a Woman’s
Club open-house with a program of music and
readings, a maple sugar party staged by the seniors
at Cabot High School, a stunt night, and a special
dinner served by the P.T.A. The events of the
week closed with a preaching service at the United
Church, with music by a large adult and young
people’s choir,

Additional Gift—An additional $100,000 has
been added to the trust fund set up for the pur-
poses of community recreation in Reedsburg, Wis-
consin, by a former resident whose original gift was
$200,000. The new grant has been ear-marked
for parks.

Playground Victory E Award—The Brattle-
boro, Vermont, Recreation Department sponsored
a Playground Victory E Award for the summer
playgrounds. '

The Playground Victory E was awarded for
excellence in : Sportsmanship, Leadership, Achieve-
ment, Participation, and Citizenship.

Each boy and girl received fifty points for par-

'ticipation in the following activities or events if he

RECREATION

1

   

LOOK TO THE LEADER FOR PROGRESS...

 

If it’s G Wilson it’s THE LAST WORD

The name Wilson stands for the modern era of among players, coaches, leagues, schools con-

sports—the era of speed, skill, and progress. tinues to grow. It is a tribute to the name that
Wilson equipment for our modernized type of stands for the latest thing in equipment for today’s
foocball, basketball, soccer—as well as golf, ten- smart play. Remember—If it’s a Wilson it’s the
nis, etc., is strictly in tune with the times—the last last word in modern equipment for modern play.
word in smart design, construction and good \Vilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York
craftsmanship. Preference for \Vilson equipment and other leading cities.

\

gag” Lrt's alt boos! tbe“War
$3". % Memorial: The! Lire”
Q t campaign to comm. m-
3? 43*
be;

..... .. arch" our war berries.

 SPORTS EQUIPMENT

»
-

‘IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

490 KEEPING UP WITH THE I-VIGGLESWORTHS

or she showed good sportsmanship and citizen-
ship and 100 points for each contest or match
which he or she won: Dramatics, Salvage Drive,
Arts and Crafts projects (completed), Dancing.
Adding to a Hobby Collection, Athletic Badge
Contests, Bringing New Members to the Play-
ground, Basketball, Horseshoes, and Badminton.

The awards were made at the closing day cele-
bration.

Postwar Veterans’ Victory Vacations———T he
Milwaukee Road headquarters in Chicago is serv—
ing not only returned veterans, but everyone vaca-
tion bound in issuing the bulletin Postwar Veter-
ans’ Victory Vacations which gives information
about some of our National Parks and Forests.
vacation attraction of Montana with its dude
ranches, the Black Hills of South Dakota, and
other interesting vacation places of the West.

The suggestion for the publication of a booklet
of this kind came from an overseas veteran who
wrote: “The fun and benefits of re—seeing America
is just the kind of pick up we all need.”‘

 

 

Keeping Up with the
Wigglesworths

" NCE UPON A TIME” there was a boy named
Henry Aldrich who has come to be a by-
word for adolescent youth in thousands of house-
holds all over the country. Henry Aldrich has had
a varied career in art, but perhaps, his largest fol-
lowing was made up of the men and women, boys
and girls who heard his exploits with their ears
through the medium of radio. So popular did these
exploits become that they have been used as a kind
of basic formula for other radio programs having
for their purpose an aim not concerned with the
sale of the myriad products of the technological age.
Latest comer in this field of radio programs is
the New Tools for Learning series Keeping U p
with the W'iggiesworths now available for air use
on local broadcasting stations.

The Wigglesworths make up a family not unlike
the Aldriehes, with Snuffy Wigglesworth holding
the center of interest. He is surrounded by Father
and Mother, Uncle Will and Sister Barbara, and
by a company of adolescent friends of both sexes
who move in and out of the twenty—six programs
with entertaining and amusing results.

But, though the Wigglesworths and their friends
entertain and amuse their hearers, that is not the

main aim of their creator. New Tools for Learn-
ing is supported by the Alfred P. Sloan Founda—
tion which is concerned with popular economic
education. What lies behind the Wigglesworth
series is the desire to focus attention on some of
the burning economic questions of the day in such
a way that people who find it difficult to follow
the professional economist’s discussion of such
questions as Bretton Woods or foreign trade will
see these large issues in the light of their own
everyday concerns. Snufiy’s adolescent interest in
making pocket money is the peg on which the
series is hung. For instance, by banding together
with his friends to help a boy whose delivery busi-
ness has been wiped out by fire, Snuny discovers
the basic principles of Bretton Woods, and by com-
peting with a power lawn mower he learns that
cheap labor by itself cannot produce as efficiently
and cheaply as skilled labor using machines. There-
fore, cheap foreign labor by itself cannot undersell
goods manufactured in the United States by ma-
chines.

The series has been produced with the best pro—
fessional radio talent available. It holds the inter-
est from start to finish and does with finesse a job
that could not have been easy to do. It deserves to
get the best- possible community usage.

One way of using the series might apply directly
to recreation centers, especially to those who are
directing a part, at least, of their thought to the
adults in the community. For the series can well
serve as a jumping-off place for adult discussion
groups who would like to consider the questions
that are taken up in the scripts. Snuffy’s father is
the prototype of the conservative, not to say re-
actionary, isolationist. He presents all the argu-
ments for non-interference in foreign affairs, for
high tariffs and the lowest possible taxes. He has.
too, many of the usual prejudices against “foreign-
ers” and their governments. The two points of
view, therefore, are set out in bold outline so that
the lines of a discussion are clearly defined before-
hand. A discussion group could well be set up to
hear the programs each week that are presented
and to go on from there with a more thorough

analysis of the situation involved.

Incidentally, if your local radio station is not
planning to carry the series and you would like to
be able to use it, a little pressure from community
organizations may well turn the trick for you.
These programs are clearly and definitely “in the
public service.”

RECREATION

' MAKING MINIATURES If" FUN 49}

Window Nature Study

( Continued from page 474}

the inner and outer windows determines to nu
small extent the existence and the nature of frost
designs on the inner window. These designs will
be affected also by the humidity of the air within
the schoolroom, and humidity affects the mental
activity of the children who must breathe the moist
air. Window laboratories may help to make hu-
midity more than a word that is hard to under-
stand.

A closed terrarium on the window sill will pre-
sent in miniature the water cycle in termsthat any
child can understand. A part of the terrarium ex-
posed to light and heat may appear free of mois—
ture, such as shows in the cooler, darker portions.
With a crayon a child may easily trace on the
glass a natural isotherm and a natural border be-
tween two regions of differing humidity. These
isotherms will change before the child’s eyes, and
it will not be necessary to wait until the official
weather map comes tomorrow to see what will
happen. \Vith a little maneuvering of the shades
or of the terrarium, a child may make it “rain” in
his little glass-enclosed “world,” or at least he can
make the humidity reach such a concentration that
drops run down the side of the glass.

Some of the newer kinds of glass that are com-
ing on the market permit the passage of ultraviolet
light while others bar it, and many vary in the
amount of heat they transmit. Some of the new
kinds of‘ glass are available through mail-order
houses or through stores that supply building ma-
terials for poultry houses. Provision must be made

to expose the outside of the terrarium directly to
the out of doors.

 

 

Making Miniatures ls Fun

By AMY ELIZABETH JENSEN

R A LITTLE GIRL, I always enjoyed watching my
mother straighten drawers, organize the sew-
ing cabinet and pack things into boxes to be stored
in the attic, a room I still find most fascinating.
The articles, which she handled, were not just com-
mon things to me, but were rather, in my mind’s
eye, transformed into interesting miniature crea—
tions. However, it was not until recently that I
really decided to do something about this creative
urge. The result was a series of miniature rooms
built to scale and complete with accessories.

For the backgrounds, I used pieces, of cardboard,

DECEMBER 1945

Colleges and by ac: '

niei'pol and Industri I R'wv ‘

MacGrcgquoldsr '-

'-uipmnf is [EGOgl n- ' .. . -.

- v; of qu. My m. -c fm'.
' '  ‘1.

.I' Inn"

ac at.an .a nu» u S A

 

plywood and wallboard, covered with gift wrap—
ping paper. wall—paper or paint. To decorate these
walls, pocket mirrors and pictures, cut from ad-
vertisements and greeting cards, were framed in
attractive ways. Pieces of velveteen, turkish towel-
ing and woven mats made the floor coverings. Rib-
bons. net, lace, old curtains and other scraps fur-
nished the materials to drape the windows of glass,
which was removed .from picture frames. Such
materials were also used for spreads, dressing
tables and other things. Empty chalk boxes, built
up and plastered, became charming, cozy fireplaces,
filled with “twig” logs. The furniture patterns
were drawn freehand and then were squared so
that all parts fit perfectly when glued together.
These pieces, made of plywood, were cut out on a
jig-saw, sanded and either painted or stained. For
dainty chairs and tables, bone crochet hooks and
lollypop sticks and matches were used. Spices,
small beads and flower macaroni simulated carv-
ing, and parts of old jewelry made excellent pulls
for table and chest drawers. Leather, oilcloth, vel-
vet, ribbon, petit point from compacts, and other
materials upholstered various pieces. Dainty but-

492 DANCING MO THE RS '

tons became dishes, trays, candle holders, and
paper weights. Fashioned from a pair of kid gloves
were a desk set and waste basket decorated with
tiny flowers. Lamps were made of beads and card-
board darning spools covered with silk and finished
with fine cording. Vines and flowers cut from old
boutonnieres were placed in small bottle tops and
other containers. Old ring settings, buckles and
leather surrounded snapshot portraits. Covered
with gay paper were small pieces of wood made to

look like books. Charms for bracelets and other.

novelty jewelry were used for bric-a—brac. These
and many other unusual accessories added charm
and color to these lilliputian rooms, making each
setting realistic.

Upon completing the rooms, I decided to make
the occupants too. Beads built up with plastic
wood fashioned the heads of the dolls with painted
faces, and wire wound with string made bodies
which were placed in different positions. The
clothing, of course, was sewn from scraps of cloth.

Santa Comes to Roseland

(Continued from page 453)

organizations such as the chorus, the rhythm band.
the drama club, the groups of small children; and
other leaders rehearse with them as they learn
their numbers in dance, drama and music. All the
group uniforms, like the patriotic red, white and
blue suits for the rhythm band, are made in the
community clothing clinic.

Purchases of 600 boxes of assorted Christmas
candies and 900 apples are made from funds raised
by the Council. The children enjoy the annual
party and all other groups promoting holiday ac-
tivities use the decorated tree and Christmas set-
ting for their social program during the season of
Yuletide. -

When Santa first came to the party he was a
senior in high school. The next two years he was
away in college. The tenant council solved that
small problem by mailing him a round trip ticket
along with a request to the head of the school for
his services. This year a change may have to be
made because Santa is now a member of the U.S.
Army Air Corps stationed at Tuskegee, Alabama,
and Army furloughs are not so easily obtained.
This year, too, there will be another innovation,
this one of a voluntary nature. Mrs. Santa will
come along to this very special celebration in a
housing project that lives in and through and by
and for its tenants.

Dancing Mothers

” ’M BRINGING little Judy to your classes because

I want her to enjoy some of the advantages
that I never had,” says Judy’s mother who, in
nine cases out of ten, comes along and sits on the
sidelines and keeps time to the music and experi-
ences a second—hand thrill. But, down in Memphis,
Tennessee, the mothers of all the judys and their
friends don’t have to be just spectators, because in
Memphis a group of dancing mothers (young and
not so young) can really keep up with their danc-
ing daughters.

When the idea of the Dancing Mothers first
began the members of the group learned only
simple steps so that they could help their children
at home. But they became rapidly more proficient
and soon they knew several full routines. They
knew, too, how much real fun it was to participate
in dancing activities.

One day, when they were busy making costumes
for their children, the director said, “Why don’t
you each make yourself a costume ?” The response
was suspiciously quick. Thus, the Dancing Mothers
became sewing mothers too. From that moment on
they met at the Community Center two mornings
a week to dance and sew. And, when the Center
closed in May, they appeared with their daughters
on the final program, South American Fiesta. The
children did a simplified Conga, their mothers an
effective dance with large trays of flowers.

Later, the mothers entertained wounded soldiers
at Kennedy General Hospital. In the Recreation
Department’s closing summer pageant, Cinderella,
the youngsters were “Water Babies” and the
mothers were “Statues” in the garden scene. For
the fall of 1945 the Dancing Mothers planned a
dance with enormous fans, modeled on a number
from the Skating Vanities.

Not the least important factor in the success of
the Dancing Mothers is the way they have risen in
the estimation of their children. One youngster
looked up at her mother in the dressing room on
the night of performance and said, “Mother, 1
never knew you were so pretty!” and another was
overheard remarking, “I thought 'mother was lots
too old to dance, but she isn’t.”

Of course, the Memphis Recreation Department
has other activities for this same group of mothers
—— hat-making, gym, handcraft ——but the dancing,
with its logical conclusion in a public performance
with pretty costumes and a lot of applause, seems
to satisfy a long-suppressed desire—Eunice Ware.

RECREATION

MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, HAS SOME NEW IDEAS 493

Middlebury, Vermont, Has
Some New Ideas
About Playgrounds

ITIZENS 0F MIDDLEBURY, Vermont, who were
C recreation-minded put on their thinking caps
and came up with some novel ideas about a chil—
dren’s play area. They used for the site an old
barn foundation. The granite block walls fence in
the children from the rest of the area. One section
is given over to a huge sand area and another to a
space for picnics with a lireplace in the corner.
Some of the granite blocks have been retained for
stepping stones and the children have a line time
jumping and playing —— like the jay bird who
hopped from limb to limb.

The ingenious play director uses large log blocks
for seats which are scattered around the trees and
used especially for the story hour. A great broad
plank “doubles in brass” as another story hour
seat and an effective balancing board.

A small playhouse made of logs with a Hat roof
provides endless opportunity for all kinds of ac—
tivity. The roof of the little house becomes the
deck of a ship or some other fancy, and it is a
wonderful place-for safe climbing. Inside the little
girls love to keep house. The logs for this very
multiple use piece of equipment cost $18. An ad-
ditional fifty cents went for nails. Busy fathers
somehow found the time to build it after play (and
work) hours were over. '

Elaborate games and toys have not been found
especially needed here. The smaller children, for
instance, those youngsters of four and live and
six, both boys and girls, are fascinated by old, dis-
carded hats. One morning session literally blos-
somed into a gay parade of hats of every hue and
shape trimmed with flowers of every known variety
(and many that existed only in the imagination of
an ancient milliner!) The cost for this equipment
was just exactly nothing. But it gave many chil-
dren a great deal of pleasure.

 

 

Nature Adventuring in Winter
(Continued from page 472)

never heard of it before and it has no commercial
value but it sounded interesting. We found the
quarry and, given permission, poked around it till
we located several specimens which we now dis-

play with vast pride to our friends who also had
never before heard of a mineral “leather.” , ‘

DECEMBER 1945

// ' 

    
 
 
  
   

 

   

.9 ‘
SPORT 
EQUIPMENT

6/100“ RAWLINGS
Aerie/z ATHLETIC GOODS

4M 34% 3pm!
. Available from

Leading Athletic Goods
Distributors

MANUFACTURINE Bl].
5*r lOUIS - MISSOURI

 

\ 3""3‘3

’x'! 

I also read of the “black sands” on the beach a
few miles from Santa Cruz—black because some-
times better than 50 per cent of the sand is com-
posed of grains of magnetite, a very magnetic iron
ore. That sounded interesting so we headed for that
beach, armed with a horseshoe magnet, and a quart
jar. \Ve came home with a bucketful of sand to share
with several of my nature study teacher friends.
The magnet, passed through the surface of the
sand, attracted strings of magnetite grains till it
looked laughably like the chin of a man who hasn’t
shaved for a fortnight. Back home, an auto repair
man gave me a stronger live—inch magnet from a
magneto and I phoned those teacher friends to
come over to experiment with our loot. N 0 young—
sters on a Hallowe’en ever had more fun. First we
sprinkled some magnetite grains on a thin sheet of
paper placed above the magnet and watched the
grains move into the “lines of force” exactly like
a drawing in my physics text book. Then there
was a wild'scurrying over the house collecting ma—
terials to test for their “transparency” to the force
of magnetism. \Ve had fairly correct ideas- about
non-conductors of heat and of electricity. This

494 ' MUSIC FOR THE MULTITUDE

magnet business knocks those into the scrap-heap!
Magnetism acts with seemingly undimini shed vigor
through a thick slab of plate glass, three-ply wood
(my bread board), my aluminum cookie sheet, the
double thickness of a rubber hot water bottle, six-
teen layers of a folded handkerchief, a dinner plate,
and the thick leather sole of my son’s boot. \Vhee,
what fun! Magnetism is effective even through the
palm of one’s hand to the extent of making the
grains stand on end but does not arrange them in
lines of force. An enamelled cooking dish and a
painted tin tray alone were not “transparent” to
the magnetic force, not, (as we learned from the
text) because of the enamel, the paint, or the tin,
but because of the iron base of both these articles.

A Stanford professor tells me these “black

sands” are very common the world over, wherever_

igneous rocks have disintegrated and been washed
into streams, lakes, rivers, and oceans. Many of
you should be able to locate some within a reason-
able distance. A magnet will separate the magne-
tite grains from the plain sand grains. A table-
spoonful is enough to play with as we did. Do get
yourselves some and watch magnetism perform
before your eyes.

I could suggest twice as many projects but
these, I hOpe, are enough to convince you that
nature adventures need not be put on a shelf
through the long winter months.

COME OUT! COME OL'T!

Music for the Multitude
(Continued from page 477 )

chosen for their ages and interests—good music
that is, at the same time, fun to sing. This fall the
older children on the playgrounds sang songs of
many nations until it was time to start rehearsing
the music for the Christmas program when young-
sters from all the playgrounds are massed in one
great children’s chorus. The choruses are massed
too for the Summer Festival, and throughout the
year individual groups “perform” at playground
parties. Any child is welcome to take part in any
of these singing sessions.

Special music activities are arranged for the
teen-age group on three playgrounds. These young
ladies and gentlemen have their own music di-

rector who works with them and leads their per-
formances.

For girls in high school or college and for young
women who work during the day, there is a Girls’
Chorus which rehearses one evening a week for
two hours. They review familiar songs, study
new material and sing old favorites for the joy of
the singing. This fall a similar group for boys is
planned. Any boy who loves to sing is invited to
come and have a part in learning music designed
especially for boys’ voices.

Younger children can get valuable musical train—
ing in one of the playground toy symphonies. They
learn many things, do these youngsters, about the
relationships of the orchestra’s instruments and
its choirs and many of them have their first intro-
duction to standard musical works that will be
good friends to them throughout their lives.

Chiea go

The Chicago Park District is embarking this
year on an entirely new musical venture. During
the summer of 1945 auditions were held to select
soloists for the Grant Park Concerts. A surpris-
ingly large number of talented singers were “dis~
covered” at these auditions. They were, many of
them, interested in operatic singing, but they
needed training in the techniques of acting and
performance. Accordingly, the Park District es—
tablished an Opera and Operetta Guild. The musi—
cal director of the Midwest Opera Company agreed
to conduct rehearsals and performances. Thus, an—
other musical activity of note was added to those
already represented in Chicago by the South Side
and the west Side Symphony Orchestras. And
thus another opportunity was given to the “aver-
age" person to learn to sing.

Last Words

It may be argued that these are special cases,
that few communities can offer such outstanding
musical leadership as San Francisco and Chicago
and some of the other large cities like them. There
is, of course, some virtue in that argument. But
innumerable smaller communities —— communities
less blessed with nationally known musicians—are
using high school music supervisors, college teach-
ers, local choir directors and organists and music
teachers to develOp local choruses, symphoniettas,
ensembles, bands to the greater glory of the town
and the greater pleasure of the town’s people. At
long last music is heing made available not only
to the chosengfew but to the multitude.

RECREATION

C().’\’I-’ALESCHVG CAN BE FUN 495

BOYS CLUBS o
CHURCHES 0

CITY RECREATION

and USO clubs went wiid over the game!

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET o

 

Convalescing Can Be Fun
(Continued from page 468}

put up fences, under the instruction of former
civilian farmers and graduates of scientific farming
schools. Many of the vegetables and fruits used

by the hospital’s mess halls come directly from
the farm. '

Any would-be sailor among the patients feels quite
at home with the “Convalescent Navy” which con-
sists of some twenty-five boats. Included in this
array are sailboats, motor launches, high powered
barges, outboard motor boats, canoes, and row—
boats. A recent addition to the “fleet” is a sixty-
foot cabin cruiser which will be used for deep sea

fishing trips and excursions into the many bays
and inlets of famed Puget Sound.

DECEMBER 1945

naaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
\\ .

Y.M.C.A's and Y.W.C.A's o
SERVICE CENTERS

all over the country are adapting this new way of bowling thal
requires no pin-boys but is played and scored the same as
requlalion bowling. Our Service men and women in camps

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY W

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

 

SCHOOLS
o FRATERN AL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
II4 East 32nd Street. New Yorlt

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name. ...........  ............................................. ..
Address .. 

City. 

 

A fleet of buses carries the men to their private
swimming beach where they enjoy the facilities
of a complete beach house and outdoor fireplaces.
A stable with twenty-six horses is available to them
and a near—by golf course, with a former national
champion PGA instructing, offers them free use of
the course and clubs. Some 200 bicycles are avail-
able at all times and it is not an uncommon sight
to see an entire “platoon” riding down the streets
preparatory to taking a trip through some of
Washington's lovely and scenic areas. Needless to
say, former infantrymen get a kick out of this type
of transportation.

Even the evenings are full of entertainment as
an efficient Red Cross and Special Service staf’i
plans several weekly dances which are attended by
lovely hostesses from local communities. Many of

496

the patients spend evenings in private homes, or
attend concerts or stage productions. Various
civic and social groups entertain the men with free
trips to boxing and wrestling matches, and every
football game in the vicinity finds the choice seats
on the fifty yard line filled with cheering G.I.’s from
the Convalescent. Every Sunday, buses take the pa-
tients to beautiful Mt. Rainier and the opening of
the hunting season finds many of them shooting
for sport instead of sighting some Jap or German,
as so many of them were doing only a short time
ago.

For the patients’ recreation between classes
numerous snack bars dot the corridors,~and quiet
rooms and music rooms are open daily. A library
containing the newest editions is in constant use.
If a patient should feel in need of some quick gym-
nastics, too, small remedial gyms have been set
up with such things as bar—bells, rowing machines,
pulley-weights, chinning bars and stationary
bicycles.

Regardless of where he goes the patient cannot
help but run into some recreational activity that
will appeal to him. The hospital’s motto, “Some—
thing for Everyone to Do” has come true.

Full Lives for the Aged
(Continued from page 465)

when invited to regular gatherings, and we’re sure
that sooner or later we’ll be able to hit on some
projects of special interest to them.”

Meanwhile, the Yorkville Civic Council and its
cooperating agencies have been planning for ex—
pansion of the recreation program for elderly per-
sons in the community. In a special message to a
selected list of social, health and recreation agen-
cies, the Council described the work of its Com-
mittee on Recreation for Older People, and asked
each agency to consider how its program might be
adapted to meet the needs of “our older friends.”
Urging that agency executives re—examine their
programs in the light of the aging population, the
message concluded:

“The committee believes that much more can be
done by Council members for this group of peo-
ple. VVon’t you give some thought to this matter,
and let us know your plans? We may be able to
help you. We want to have Yorkville known for
the opportunities it provides for our elderly neigh—
bors. Won’t you get in touch with us, so that to-
gether we may channel back to the main Stream
these members of our community?”

10.

II.

12.

13.

I4.

THE DO-SOMETHING CLUB

The Do-Something Club

(Continued from page 462)
mals. A'lso making animal-shaped bean bags.

Birds and frogs design well for the latter '

project.

. Making Mexican bowls from paper and glue

and decorating (after dry) with Mexican '

scenes using showcard colors. Shellacking is
the last step here. Bowls can be used for
crackers, popcorn, or potato chips.

Designing and making Indian animal head-
dresses from cardboard. These are cut out,
painted to represent the animals’ faces, and
worn as headgear in Indian dances.

. Carving small vases from reconditioned can-

dle wax. After the vases are made, a contest
for the best flower arrangement can be held.
During one of these contests at our museum
to which a garden specialist had been invited
to judge, a boy won the first prize.

Pictures worth framing made of scraps of
colored felt on a background of monkscloth.
Wooden buttons with original Mexican de-
signs accomplished by means of the new
plastic that really hardens.

Pressing and mounting and labeling tree
leaves. Also blueprints of weeds and common
summer wildflowers as well as leaves. .
Collecting insects with nets, killing in a jar
for the purpose, relaxing, mounting on
boards, and later placing in homemade Riker
mounts. Common names were used when
labeling specimens.

Hammering and staining useable wooden
bluebird 'boxes.

Stencilling original designs on cloth (usually
unbleached cotton). Boys placed colored de-
signs on their shirts, while the girls made
small luncheon sets.

Burned wood. Pencil sketches from the Mu-
seum’s mounted birds and mammals are trans—
ferred to plywood plaques, small trays, or
belt pieces. Later they are tinted with water
colors and shellacked. The belt pieces are
strung with boondoggle and worn by the
maker. -
Clay modeling. Small animals, lapel pins, ba
reliefs are modeled by hand. Later these are
fired and glazed, fired again. In the summer
most of the pieces are given a slip decoration.
Paper animals can be constructed from rolled
newspapers covered with strips of paper.

RECREATION

q
1

l
l

h.—

THE DO-SOMETHING CLUB 497

toweling applied with glue or paste. When
dry, they can be painted with showcard colors.
Assorted animals make a splendid indoor
circus, are very attractive at the exhibit.

15. Rag doll nlarionettes (with weights in their
feet) are easy to make with relatively small
children. Clowns, Indians, and animals are
favorites with the young people.

The popularity of our Do—Something Club might

be summarized as follows:

I. The children work only in the mornings
when it is cool and they are not tired. Some—
times they work out-of-doors.

2. They have a choice of projects.

3. The four different groups working in four
different rooms (sometimes it is just three
groups) on different projects gives a fore-
taste of the departmentalized classes of the
upper school grades or high school. This
lends a “grown-up” air to the activity.

4. The constant use of hands. Craft work is
much neglected in most schools; written
work is often overemphasized.

5. Companionship. We all like to be with con-
genial friends, to work with them. So do
children. Lasting friendships formed in Do—
Something Club the past four summers are
already apparent.

6. The program and exhibition for the parents
the last day of the club’s meeting give an
excellent objective toward which to work. It
is an honor to have an object on display, or
to be asked to work on a committee.

Grown-ups often lay down the rules, but per—

'haps the children are right about the crafts. It has
been stated that serious functional disorders of the
human body can be traced to lack of exercise, such
as walking, swimming, and really working with
our hands. Let us build our junior programs to
include these essential activities, eSpecially in our
schools and museums. The playgrounds and sum—
mer camps have already beaten us to the goal.

Play Center for Youngstown Children
(Continued from page 463)

selves as fun. They had learned‘, too, that for good

fun, you need certain fundamental tools that must

be acquired.

There was no “discipline” problem. Interest in
all the activities was almost constantly at the boil-
ing point. There was neither time nor inclination
for bad behaviour. Children too frequentlylate to

DECEMBER 1945

INDE'
YOUR
HOBBY

with these

HELPFUL 57 '

Eton

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charlea Carlaon . . . . . . . .8150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Char-lea Carlaon . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charlea Carlaon . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION. by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKE'I‘CBES. by Charlotte Young . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Char-lea Carlaon . . . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charlea Carlaeu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES,byCharlotteH.Young 1.00
CARTOONING IS A FUNNY BUSINESS, by S. B. Faier 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION. by Arthur Zaidenberg 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING, by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street New York. N. Y.

 

school in the winter, stormed the Center’s doors
at 7 :39 A. M. “rarin’ ” to get to work.

Meanings

The school had handed itself a job—a job that
was potentially loaded with all kinds of dynamite.
There can be little .doubt that the job was worth
the doing—for the children and adults of the six
school districts who came to the Center; for the
men and women who sacrificed their own leisure
time to new experiences and to a new understand-
ing of their old jobs; to the community enriched
by citizens whose horizons are wider and whose
experience is fuller because they spent two weeks
at the Play Center.

Combine and Conquer
(Continued from page 466,}

done well with this, as they have in their duties as
recreation leaders for women’s conditioning classes
and young women’s badminton and volley ball
workouts.

Any well—rounded recreation program should in-
clude a variety of activities that will meet the in-
terestsand abilities of all. The recreation director

498 COMBINE AND CONQUER

  

. £06,? £1)!” {/19 War
THE NISSEN

TRAMPOLINE

puts the popular gym and playground sport of
TRAMPOLINING back in “civvies”

O Trained and conditioned wartime
thousands . . .

0 Now ready for peacetime's phys. ed.
and playground millions . . .

O A sound, scientific sport with a
' lively-action appeal.

Write for Free Literature

GRISWOLD & NISSEN

P. 0. Box 376 Cedar Rapids, Iowa

      
   
       
   
   
   
     
  

      

tried to accumulate all news and information con-
cerning the various activities carried on by civic

organizations in the community. This helped
everyone to see all forms of recreation going on
within the community and gave them an oppor—

tunity to ‘choose the activity most interesting to
them.

For instance, one of the local labor unions spon-
sored smokers. The University conducted a series
of lectures and forums. The Public Schools in-
creased their number of public performances and
schoolroom parties; the high school PTA pro-
moted monthly high school dances; the American
Legion hall was open every Saturday night for
social dancing; the City Recreation Department
fostered an old-time dancing group which met
twice a month and promoted a chess club; the Uni-
versity dramatic, music and athletic departments
provided a full schedule of activities. Through co-
operation between the civic organizations and Uni-
versity departments, it was possible to carry out
a diversified and well-rounded recreation program.

At the annual banquets of the Rotary Club,
Chamber of Commerce, and American Legion, the
University faculty shared in the attendance. At
the latter affair the University faculty quartet fur-
nished part of the program. A number of the
faculty have spoken before these groups at their
regular meetings from time to time. The'frieud-
Iiness between faculty and businessmen is very
inspiring and seems to be increasing. The com—
bination of community and University students
and faculty in the orchestra, the opera, the chess
club, the community basketball leagues, the volley
ball tournaments, the old-time and square dancing
clubs all contributed to better community-Univers-
ity understanding.

The community recreatiOn pregram was possi-

ble because twelve community and civic organiza-
tions, including the University, banded together
and got the program voted upon by the people.
Then funds could be allocated to meet the needs of
a year-round recreation set—up. Using this group
as a nucleus, the Community Coordinating Coun-
cil of Forest Grove was organized. It consists of
all organizations in the city, including govern-
mental services, private social agencies, civic, re-
ligious and labor organizations. Fifty-six groups
are represented. It is the function of the Council
to coordinate the activities of these various groups
for the best service to the entire community. It is
hoped that this Council will be used as a clearing
house for community thought and action in order
that greater unity and purpose may be developed
among the existing organizations. Plans call for a
city planning committee, a committee on city super-
vision of music, a standing committee on a commu-
nity recreation center, a community memorial
hospital committee.
There were 6,206 participants in the activity
program in the gymnasium during the first six
months of the program. The cost to the commu-
nity is only twenty cents per person. This would
be greatly increased, however, if there were a
charge made for rental, heat, light, and water for
the various buildings used. This cooperation be-
tween the city and the University is very com-
mendable. Those participating in the program have
been generous in their praise of the University for
putting these facilities at their disposal. Students
studying in the field of Physical Education and
Recreation have been fortunate in being able to
apply their class work by assisting in the recrea-
tion program for the community. The practical
‘experience they have received through this type of
laboratory work has been a great help in the Uni-
versity’s educational program.

Make Believe Land

(Continued from page 459)

twice, each cast having a chance to play a per-
formance. That the young actors look upon the
experience as worth some sacrifice is witnessed by
the fact that each child agrees to give up all other
out-of—school activities during the six or seven
week rehearsal period and, with his parents, signs
a statement to that effect. Rehearsals last from
four to six in the afternoons.

Not only do the boys and girls take the appro-
priate parts in the plays, but they also fill all pro-
duction 'jobs‘ except directing and designing. Each

RECREATION

SP1 ’1' AND ARC UE CLUB 499

actor is responsible for his own costume. An im-
portant part of the experience is a lecture in the
fundamentals of stage technique which starts every
cast on its rehearsing. ,

The audience is no sit-and-take-it-politely-
whether—you-like-it-or-not group. There is, proba—
bly no more vocally appreciative group than an
audience of children from seven to twelve years
old, and when 300 of them crowd into an audi-
torium you can be sure that sooner or later one of
them will be “right in there pitching” with the
actors. Thus, in St. Louis, one “first-nighter” at
Cinderella remarked with very audible disgust,
“That ain’t wine, Prince, that’s a make-believe!”
The chances are a hundred to one in favor of some
youngster having to be hauled back bodily from
crawling on to the stage in the middle of a scene.
Between the acts in St. Louis the audience gets
rid of excess energy by singing under adult lead-
ership.

Possibly of all the audiences who have seen the
Children’s Playhouse productions, the most inter-
esting included forty boys and girls from the Cen-
tral Institute for the Deaf. They had been pro-
vided with scripts in advance of the performance
and so were able to follow the story without too
much difficulty. They were part of an audience
from the city’s institutions at one of the prevue
nights. These institutionalized youngsters are
asked to come to each opening night’s performance
as guests of a group of patrons, organizations and
sponsors whose donations make it possible to give
a “free” performance. It has been necessary to
charge a fee of $2.55 for a season ticket to three
plays (for single tickets, the price is a little
higher) in order to defray production costs. But
the organization hopes in time to bring the price
down to twenty—live cents a ticket. Director’s fees,
it should be added, contribute nothing to the cost
of productions because the directors donate their
services—and stoutly maintain that they would
rather direct children than adults because children

take direction more readily and learn their lines
more quickly.

Spit and Argue Club

(Continued from page 460,)
priority over all other speakers. The debate in no

case shall last more than an hour and forty-five
minutes.”
“If a disturbance occurs, the chairman shall

quell it. If he is unable to do so alone, he shall
call on the committee for assistance.”

DECEMBER 1945

 
 
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
     

@924"  ,é'

THE IMPROVED
RECREATION!“
JIG SAW

Designed in cOOperation with lead-
ing therapists and recreational directors.

STU RDY I EASY-RUNNING - FOOLPROOF A

Tubular steel fro me oCornfortable,
3-way odiuslable chair-Aluminum
work table and
pedal wheel - Sim-
plified saw mount-
ing with special
safety devices.

ONE WEEK
FREE TRIAL

Order now for early de-
livery. Price: $89.00 com-

plete, F. O. B. St. louis.
Write for descriptive folder.

   

 
 

NY

5733 McPherson Avenue 0 St. louis l2, MlIIJuU

“It is the duty of the chairman and committee
members to remove from the rostrum any speaker
who uses improper or abusive language. Any mem-
ber of the audience may protest to the chairman
about a speaker’s language and the chairman must
give immediate attention.”

“Any kind of entertainment is permissible from
the rostrum provided it is carried on in a decent
manner.” _

The rules governing the language of speakers do
not prevent them at times from expressing in no
uncertain terms their scorn for an opponent’s argu-
ments. One speaker described his fellow mem—
bers as “supercilious, loquacious, ostentatious,
bombastic, fulminating fiascos and aberrations
chatterers.” Aside from that, however, he credited
them fully and freely with being gentlemen and
scholars!

The careful administration by the chairman of
the rules of debate applies only on the rostrum. In
the informal talking and visiting area, sometimes
referred to as the “free-for-all argument and
hecklers' group,” one leading member claims that

“as a rule only six people will talk at the same
time.”

500 A COMMUNITY THEATER SERVES THE SERVICE

 

 

you Gan Use—

‘ 1THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

e SPORTS ~ AND ems
a RECREATION. \

In fact. on every pheil‘oi school programs relating to heelth,
physical education. ind recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thou ht and eéiivity on fell phases important
to those charged wit the: health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year. ‘ \ ‘h‘ 4'

'r '1 Published monthly, eixcept )Jitly ond Auguét

AMtntcm‘ ASSOCIATION son mun“
rursrcAL’toucartou, AND “cannon
1201 Sixteenth Sh. N.W.. Washington 6, D. C.

w J
_—r——_

It is difficult not to be a bit flip nt in comment-
ing on this unusual center and its u usual habitues,
but—seriously speaking—there is much of intel-
lectual interest heard here. Many speakers are well
qualified to discourse on their favorite” subjects,
and considerable debating skill is frequently ex-
hibited.

As to community singing, it often partakes of
the truly inspirational; and no observer can doubt
the great satisfaction that comes to the square
dancers from the opportunity to swing partners
and beat out the time as they did “way back home.”

“The University by the Sea” has been referred
to as “the most unusual club in the United States,”
and in normal times it is visited by thousands of
interested tourists. Members are any and all in-
dividuals whotattend, with full rights to vote and
to take part in activities. There are no initiation
fees or dues. Regular attendants are an interesting
cross—section of humanity. Many colorful men and
women, some startling in their unusual, even
bizarre, costumes or adorhment, stand cheek by
jowl with people in working clothes. Nor is the
precise appearance suggesting the retired profes-
sional or business man absent. A variety of races
and nationalities, too, are in the group.

Reference was made to the similarity of this
forum to the old American village customs. It
may be that the likeness should be one of much
more ancient date. Does it not call to mind scenes
we attribute to the golden age of Greece? With
only a little imagination we can see on this plat-
form in Long Beach the counterpart of the Athena-

ian philosOpher Socrates and his pals contending
over many of the same questions more than 2400
years ago. . .

A Community Theater 'Serves

. the Service
(Continued from page 458)

found necessary to build an entirely separate set
of scenery since that used in the regular theater
could not be easily transported and adapted to
smaller stages.

When Dibble General Hospital was established
it, too, was added to the “circuit” but it presented
\an entirely different problem. Consideration had
to be given to the varying conditions and types of
injury of the men who would attend the perform—
ances. Few, if any, of the plays could be produced
for all the men indiscriminately; considerable sel-
ecting had to be done by the hospital staff with the
particular play in mind so that those patients who
could not stand it would not be over-stimulated. It
was necessary also to broadcast the performances
over the inter-ward radio to those unable to be
moved to the recreation hall ,and in some cases
programs were taken into the wards when this
seemed desirable and practical.

Now,‘with the war over and an ever-increasing
number of patients assigned to the hospital, the
newest trend becomes apparent. Many patients
not confined to their beds or the hOSpital premises
are manifesting an interest in playing in the shows
themselves. Again that link with civilian life holds
out its attraction and already a number of these
men have participated in the theater productions.
The plays are still being taken to the hospital and
will continue to be taken there so long as the au—
thorities desire them, and more and more, efforts
will be made to encourage participation by the
patients. A factor of no little significance in this
matter of patient-participation is the psychological
effect it has upon the other patients when they see
and hear one of their own group taking his place
in the pursuits of normal pivilian life.

This phase of the work is now the only one left
of the comprehensive program that grew up during
the war years when as many as nine different
posts were being served, but it is by far the most
important. During the war the program served
almost exclusively an entertainment need. Now
that same. program has become a therapeutic device.

RECREATION

 

MAGAZINES AN’D PAMPHLETS 501

The entire Recreation Department recognizes its
opportunity to serve in this capacity through its
many and diverse-activities and the theater as a
segment of this Department realizes the large share
it can play in carrying out the program. To the
theater must go the credit for hrst sensing the
need, and further, for endeavoring to meet it. To
the theater now falls the obligation, and a welcome
one it is, to provide, as its Director, Ralph Emer-
son Welles, has so aptly stated it, “The vision of a
light rekindled in a dimming mind, the rebirth-of

the will to walk, to see and to think again, by many .

who had lost all such desire.”

Christmas in San Francisco' I945

(Continued from page 451) x‘ _

ens appear. One brings a jeweled crown for the
Princess’ head, another brings golden slippers for
her feet and still another brings a jeweled saber
for the Prince. Complete happiness prevails. It
begins to snow as the snowflakes and their Queen
vanish into the depths of the forest and end the

second scene. a

The third scene takes us back to tile village.
The two little waifs, now a Prince and a Princess,
return and are given a rousing welcome and feted
as becomes their majesties. Peasant folk hustle
about improvising a throne for the occasion. After
the Prince and Princess have been seated, other
peasants arrive bringing gifts to lay‘at their feet.
The festival continues with gaiety unbounded, and

joy reigns supreme.

This briefly describes the story and the action of
San Francisco’s 1945 Christmas fete. There will
be about 800 peeple taking part for an audience
that will probably number about 3,500.

The Nativity Tableaux (see frontispiece of this
issue of RECREATION) is a traditional part of this
annual Christmas program, and it will be pre—
sented again this year. A children’s chorus cos-
tumed in white robes and carrying lighted (elec-
tric) candles will walk again down the main aisles
of the Opera House to the stage in processional
form singing “Joy to the World.” When they have
reached the stage they will sing the well-loved
Christmas carols as a fitting accompaniment to the
Christmas story presented in tableaux, beautifully
staged and lighted, in a frame above the chorus.
This will be, as it has been for many years, the
high and solemn and most beautiful point in the
Recreation Department’s Christmas celebration.

DECEMBER 1945 .

‘

" 'IIGYM MATS - PADS

BOXING RINGS

 IRAINING Mos, PAD covsas, BASE BALI.
,r‘ eases AND xmonso morphism...

designed by new". and. by experienced win-on lull
quality mid: and all and to schools. amen, ctr.
Independent. truly wholesale.

.- NATIONAL 8P0 TS.EQI.IIPM
an Inn-cu" z o roan

    
 
 
 
 
 

NT COMPANY
uc win.

        

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Receive’d Containing Articles of
Current interest to the Recreation Worker 2

a

J

MAGAZlNlES

Pencil Points, October 1945_
The Acoustics of Music Shells, (Part II) Henry L.
Kamphoefner

Beach and Pool, September 1945

New Design Permits “Three-Way” Pool, Pfc. Henry
Holmes

Let's Talk About Scarehead Polio Rumors, J. A.
Van Gilse, USNR

Scholastic Coach, October 1945
Accident Insurance for All, Bill Letwin

Journal of Health and Physical Education, October 1945
Creative Dance Programs for Children’s Summer
Camps, Lilian Zaner
Water Target Ball
Childhood Education, October 1945
Entire issue devoted to “Strengthening Family Living"

PAMPH LETS

Standard Sports Areas for Industrial, School and Public
Recreation

Industrial Recreation Association, 1 North La Salle,
Chicago 2, III.

Enlarging Is Thrilling, don herold

Federal Manufacturing and Engineering Corporation,
199-217 Steuben Street, Brooklyn 5, N. Y.

Program Patterns for Young Radio Listeners, Dorothy
Lewis and Dorothy L. McFadden
National Association of Broadcasters, 1760 N Street,
Washington 6, D. C.

Books in Review

National Parent—Teacher, 600 S. Michigan Blvd.,
Chicago 5, III. 10. cents

Selected Motion Pictures, 1945-1946
Y.M.C.A. Motion Picture Bureau, 347 Madison Ave—
nue, New York 17, N. Y. Other ofhces in Dallas,
Texas; Chicago, Illinois; and San Francisco, Cali-
ornia

Investing in Yourself, Ruth Strang
Consumer Education Study, National Association of
Secondary-School Principals, 1201 Sixteenth Street,
NW, Washington 6, D. C. 25 cents

For Freedom’s Sahel Percy J. Burrell
Baker’s Plays, 178 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
- 50 cents

1000 Games and Stunts, Harry Edlgren
Consolidated Book Publishers, 153 N. Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, 111. 13 cents each, or 2 for 25
cents

Youth and Your Community, Alice C. Weitz
PublicLAffairs Committee, Inc., 30 Rockefeller Plaza,
N ew York 20, N. Y.‘ 10 cents

 

Important Recreation Books
OFF THE JOB LIVING

'A Modern Concept of Recreation and Its Place

in the Postwar World.

By  Ott Romney

 

Here, written by a nationally known authority, is a new, important contribution to the rec-
reation field. What is the need for recreation in today’s world? Is there a place for it?
What constitutes a sound recreation philosophy for you or anyone else? Mr. Romney
answers all these and many other questions as he discusses society’s obligation to provide

0 t O O
recreatlon 1n school, commumty and 1ndustry.

Using an easy, informal style of writing, the author has succeeded in producing a
book full of human interest and understanding, one that every teacher, student and leader

in recreation will find helpful. 6” x 9” Cloth $2.75

FOR HOLIDAY FUN

These books will tell you what to do and how to do it for every social occasion:

THE PARTY BOOK by Breen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $2.50

THE CHILDREN’S PARTY BOOK by Breen . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50

LET’S CELEBRATE CHRISTMAS by Gardner . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU! by Gardner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25

THE BOOK OF ORIGINAL PLAYS by Gardner . . . . . . . . . . . 3.00

RIDE A HOBBY

Fascinating new pastimes fill the pages of these arts and crafts books:

PASTIMES FOR THE PATIENT by Ickis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3.00
ARTS AND CRAFTS by Ickis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.00
IT’S FUN TO MAKE THINGS by Parkllill and Spaetll . . . . . . 2.00
A. S. BARNES & COMPANY -
67 WEST 44th STREET NEW YORK 18, N. Y.

502 RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

OFF the Job Living

By G. Ott Romney. A. S. Barnes & Company, New
York City. $2.75.

A“MODERN PHILOSOPHY OF RECREATION” might well be

the title of this book on recreation, and “accentuate
the positive" its theme song. For Mr. Romney accepts no
negative approach to recreation, no “dwarfed conception.”
“Recreation,” he says, “is much more than a vacuum
cleaner to remove black spots from city maps. It is a
positive force and demands the positive approach" . . .
It is no “disinfectant for juvenile delinquency” . . . “It
is not subsidiary to any other social services or concerns.
It is on a parity with them and distinctive in its own
right.”

This theme of the essential worth of recreation in its
own right challenges the reader in every chapter as Mr.
Romney discusses recreation as democracy’s fifth free—
dom, as a way of life, as an end unto itself; its place in
the war effort, in industry, housing, and institutions, and
its many ramifications in satisfying living. Nor does he
ask his readers to accept his “say-so." What he has to
say about recreation in its many relationships he rein-
forces from his own experience and that of others, and
with graphic illustrations and examples from things that
are happening in all 'parts of the country.

Here's How It's Done
By Florence B. Widutis. The Postwar Information Ex-
change, Inc., New York. $1.

ARE YOU LOOKING for suggestive material to be used in

study groups or discussion groups of adults or
“young” adults? Or are you concerned with ways of
educating the community about your own program or
about other programs that are or should be functioning

in your community? Here is an answer to your needs. '

The Postwar Information Exchange, Inc., assisted by the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace has pre-
pared a pamphlet whose uses can be many and varied
since it covers all the fields of community action gen—
erally in use today with pertinent and intelligent sugges-
tions on the most effective ways to use them. Recom—
mended.

Thre’e Aids to the Drama Program

Agseisnbly Program Suggestions, edited by Ernest Bavely.

.3 .

Planning and Equipping the Educational Theater, by A.
S. Gillette, $.60.

How They Were Staged, edited by Earl W. Blank. $1.60.
The National Thespian Society, College Hill Station,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

THESE THREE PUBLICATIONS under the imprint of the

National Thespian Society should prove valuable to
drama groups. Assemblyl Program Suggestions is a com-
pilation of successful short programs for special occa-
sions described by their producers. Planning and Equip-
ping the Educational Theater contains valuable discus-
sions of the ideal physical setup for a theater building.
The standards suggested for the educational etheaterare

DECEMBER 1945

equally valid for a community theater. How They Were
Staged is a guide to staging forty-two of the plays often
chosen for production by school and community groups.
Each play is described in detail by a successful local
producer. Many of the descriptions contain actual pro—
duction budgets.

Youth Centers—An Appraisal and a
Look Ahead

Federal Security Agency, Office of Community War Ser-
vice, Washington, D. C. Free.

THIS PAMPHLET, based primarily on a questionnaire cov-

ering 303 youth centers widely distributedpver the
country, is an appraisal of this development in the field
of youth recreation, as well as a historical recording of
the contribution the teen-age club has made, and a look
ahead to its possible future. A list of youth centers
reporting in the study is appended together with a sug-
gested bibliography.

The Book for Junior Woodsmen

By Bernard S. Mason. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York City. $3.

HERE IS A COMPANION to Junior Book of Camping and

I/Voodcraft. Whereas its predecessor was concerned
primarily with campcraft techniques, this book offers
woodsmen’s lore, from the use and care of saws and axes
to the conducting of “roleos” and other recreational
features associated with lumber camps.

This is a book of “doing.” Good photographs and dia-
grams make explanations clear. It is a valuable addition
to the library of any recreation worker concerned with
camps, day camps, or other outing activities.

Legends in Action

By Nellie McCaslin. Row, Peterson & Company, Evans-
ton, Illinois. $1.00.
HERE. IS A BOOK that might have been hand tailored to
fit the needs of dramatic leaders in recreation centers
or on playgrounds. It presents ten short plays (10 to 20
minutes) adaptable for nearly bare stages or for more
elaborate production, and each drawing its material from
a different country. The plays are based on legend or
customs of the U.S.A., Russia, China, Poland, England,
Greece, India, Denmark, France, Mexico. The Mexican
program is a dramatization 0f the customary Ohristmas
celebration. Recommended.

Science of the Seven Seas

By Henry Stommel. Cornell Martime Press, New York.
$2.50.
HE SEA, 11's WATERS, its tides, its shores and islands;
the sky and its clouds and winds and stars; the myriad
kinds of animal life that find their home in the ocean are
the materials that make this study. It is profusely illus—
trated, 'ansinteresting addition to a nature library.

503

504 NEW PUBLICATIONS IN THE LEISURE TIME FIELD

Senior Girl Scouting.

Girl Scouts, New York.

This guide for senior girl scouts is an amplified re—
vision of Senior Scouting in Wartime. Though prepared
primarily for the guidance of scouts themselves, it has a
section on program activities parts of which contain sug-
gestions of general interest.

Working with Newspapers.

By Gertrude W. Simpson. National Publicity Coun-
cil, 130 E. 22nd Street, New York. $.75.

Probably there are few places where the average group
is more handicapped than in its quest for newspaper pu'b-
licity. For most laymen the world of newsprint is strange
and unexplored country. Working with Newspapers is
a highly usable chart to point the way to the best ap-
proaches to “the papers.” It explodes some old theories
and it explains the current policies and attitudes of the
newspaper toward legitimate “publicity seekers.” It is
highly recommended as a “must” for any group whose
public relations representative is just an untrained “guy”
who must handle newspaper publicity as one part of the
JO .

Conditioning Exercises for Girls and Women.

By A. S. Duggan, M. C. Montague, Abbie Rutledge.
A. S. Barnes & Company, New York. $2.50.

The Director of the Department of Health, Physical
Education and Recreation at Texas State College and two
of her students have prepared an exhaustive study of the
best conditioning exercises for women. In addition to
descriptions of exercises for every part of the body they
have included the music best designed to fit the particular
exercise and drawings to illustrate many of the descrip—
tions.

Handbook of Knots.

By Raoul Graumont. Cornell Maritime Press, New
York. $1.00.

Here is a pocket-size «book of instructions on how to-

tie 428 different knots. Most of the instructions are ac-
companied with illustrations. The book is, perhaps, too
technical for beginners but it should prove a valuable
reference for instructors of knot-tying.

Democracy’s Children.

By Ethel M. Duncan. Hinds, Hayden and Eldridge,
Inc., New York. $2.00.

Ethel Duncan has recorded actual experiences in inter-
cultural relations—and highly successful ones—with grade
school youngsters in their school. Her book offers all
kinds of suggestions for recreation programs using inter—
cultural themes.

Stage Craft for Non-Professionals.

By F. A. Buerki. Wisconsin Union Theater, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.

A clear, simple and detailed book of instructions for
non—professional theater enthusiasts has long been over-
due. This handbook is just that, written from the point
of view of the beginning technician. It discusses scenery,
lighting, properties and sound effects in terms that, while
strictly “professional,” are carefully and clearly ex-
plained. Recommended for recreation dramatic libraries.

Tennis Made Easy.

By Lloyd Budge. A. S. Barnes & Company, New
York. $l.25.

Lloyd Budge, an outstanding tennis player in his own
right and teacher of his very famous brother Don, has
set forth here “those important fundamentals that must
be mastered to allow the student of the game to progress
and improve.” He discusses among other things foot
work and timing, forehand and backhand strokes and the
serve. The illustrations help to clarify the text.

‘

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24. 1912, AND MARCH 3, 1933,
of RECREATION, published monthly at New York 10, N. Y., for
October 1, 1945.

STATE or New Yoax, 5:
COUNTY or New Yoax, '

Before me, a notary public, in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared Howaao Baaucnna, who, having
being duly sw0rn according to law, deposes and says that he is the
editor of RECREATIOON, and that the following is, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, manage-
ment (and if a daily paper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid
publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by
the Act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the Act of March 3,

1933, embodied in. section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations,
printed on the reverse of this fun, to wit:

l. That the names .and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreat' A . t. ’ 31
New York 10’ N. Y. 1011 ssoc1a ion 5 Fourth Avenue,

NIiiiiritor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,

Managing Editor: Abb' C d't, 315 F t
York 10' N. Y. ie on 1 our h Avenue, New

Yogritbe’sgmeanager: R. J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one per cent or
more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the
names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its
name and.address, as well as those of each individual member,
must be given.)

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

F. W. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemis, Boston,
Mass.; Mrs. Robert W'oods Bliss, \Vashington, D C.; Howard
Braucher, New York, N. Y.; Henry L. Corbett, Portland, Ore.;
Mrs Arthur G. Cummer, acksonville, Fla.; Mrs. Thomas A.
Edison, West Orange, N. .; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.:
Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.; Austin E. Griffiths,
Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Nonnau Harrower, Fitchburg, Mass; Mrs.
Melville H. Haskell, TueSOn, Ariz.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox,
Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D. Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. H.-
Gustavus T. Kirby, New York, N. Y.; H. McK. Landon. India
napohs, Ind.; Susan M. Lee. Boston, Mass: Otto T. Mallery.
Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken, Augusta, Me; Mrs. Ogden L.
Mills, Woodbury, N. Y.; Mrs. Sigmund Stern, San Francisco,
Calif.; J. C. \Valsb, New York. N. Y.: Frederick M. Warburg,
New YOrk, N. Y.; John G. Winant, Concord, N. H.; Stanley
Woodward, Washington, D. C.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding l' per .eent or more of total amount of
bonds), mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so
state. -

None.

4. That the two paragraphs next above giving the names of the
owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any. contain not
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stock-
holder or security bolder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the
person or corporation of whom such trustee is acting, is given;
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing
ethant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock
and scourities in a capacity other than that of bona tide owner;
and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person,
association, or corgoration has any interest direct or indirect in
the said stock, bon s, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or othenvise, to paid
subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date shown
abgivej is (This information is required from daily publications
on y.

Ilowsan Baaucnsn.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 26th day of September,
1945.
[SEAL] Mmuut S. C. Docnraausnn,

Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s No. 137 . Certificate Filed in New .York
County. Clerk’s No. 26. Register’a No. 27-D-6. My Commission

expires March 30. 1946.

RECREATION

