THE FORTIETH YEAR
of 2/9.,» NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
BEGINS APRIL 12, 1945

HESE many years fhe people of fhe Unifed Sfafes have worked fogefher on recreafion Ihrough fhe
Nafional Recreafion Associafion.

Many cifizens have pride Ihaf for years fhey have been among Ihe fen fo fiffeen fhousand persons
who annually confribufe Io make ifs work possible.

Three hundred Io four hundred volunfeers—prominenf cifizens Ihroughouf Ihe counfry—work I'o secure

Ihe confribufions. Some of ’rhese sponsors have served for more Ihan Iwenfy years and make Jrhis Iheir firsf
public service.

Fiffeen of fhe more fhan fiffy sfaff members have fhe mafurify and experience Ihaf come from having
served in Ihe na’rional work for more fhan a quar’rer cenfury.

Twelve of fhe field workers have followed the work in IocaIiIies for abouf fwenIy years or more——

fhey know firs’r-hand the successes and failures in communi’ries for a generafion. They have experience fo
pass on Io ofhers.

The magazine RECREATION. published by fhe Associafion. has a hisfory of exchanging informafion
fhrough +he field for fhirfy-eighf years.

When ’rhe Associa’rion was sfar’red in I906 only forfy-one ci’ries had recrea’rion programs wifh lead-
ership. ‘Now more fhan I.000 cifies repor’r leadership in fhe Na’ric‘mal Recreafion Associa’rion Year Book.

6.I75 differenf communifies in every s’rafe of Ihe Union and Iwen’ry-Iive foreign coun’rries received

help and advice on 'Iheir recreafion problems fhrOUgh a single bureau of Ihe Associafion in I944—Ihe
Correspondence and Consul’ra’rion Bureau. '

Six hundred cifies were given personal service in ’rhis one year I944 Ihrough Ihe visifs of field workers.

Every cify wifh a year-round program Ihaf requesfed if received regularly a bullefin service as a
means of exchanging informafion among cifies.

Cifies wifh only summer playground programs received wifhouf charge regularly ’rwo copies of fhe
Summer Playground Nofebook.

More fhan 78.000 rural volunfeers over a period of years have been ’rrained for unpaid recreafion lead-
ership in fheir own farm communifies.

Many non-rural and rural small communi’ries are being helped by s’ra’re governmenf bureaus which
give recrea’rion service. The“Associafion gave field help fo fhese sfafe bureaus in fwenfy sfafes in I944
and helped ofhers by correspondence. “-

Many smaller communi’ries receive fairjy’regular help from: 'I'hp'AséOcia’rion fhrough frequenf leH'ers.

. I ‘ l J
o . ’ ,ell J I]

ln +he ci+y 0f Allen+own. Pennsylvania. a mee+ing was held of represen+a+ives from +en near-by small
c0mmuni+ies. under +he auspices of +he Allen+own Recrea+ion Commission. wi+h +he Na+ional Recrea+ion
Associa+ion dis+ric+ field man helping +0 answer ques+ions. This has been an0+her way of giving c00pera+ive
aid +0 l0cali+ies wi+hou+ having +he cos+' excessive.

The Associa+ion has believed +ha+ many groups in +he locali+y wished +0 be helpful +0 +he municipal
and c0mmuni+y recrea+ion programs. and i+ has +herefore given ex+ensive help +0 churches. American Legion
Pos+s. service clubs. PTA's. Junior League groups. and many o+her bodies. so +ha+ all +hese would be in
be++er posi+ion +0 pu+ +heir influence behind +he recrea+ion programs.

The local communi+y and +he family uni+ in +he locali+y have been fundamen+al in all +he Associa+ion
+hinking +hr0ugh +he years.

The Associa+i0n has fel+ +ha+ +he responsibili+y should always be kep+ in +he c0mmuni+ies +hemselves;
+ha+ no+hing should be done +0 lessen local ini+ia+ive; +ha+ +he Associa+i0n's par+ was service ra+her +han
c0n+rol: +ha+ +he Associa+ion should give help only as i+ is desired.

In +he early days +here were a number who wished +o see +he Associa+ion vo+e each year on +he
recreafion program for +he ci+ies +0 carry ou+ for +ha+ year—unders+anding +ha+ no such vo+e would be
binding bu+ believing +ha+ +he ci+ies would largely abide by any such decision. In cer+ain ci+ies +here was
desire +ha+ +he Associa+ion should designa+e +he chief recrea+ion worker +0 be employed locally. The Asso-
cia+ion has never been willing +hus +0 lessen +he responsibili+y of +he l0cali+y. Each c0mmuni+y has been
lef+ +o employ i+s own execu+ive and make i+s own decisions.

The Na+ional Recrea+ion Associa+ion has resis+ed every a++emp+ +0 make i+ an au+hori+arian influence
a++emp+ing +0 impose one pa++ern. H has been and is a medium for coopera+ive self-educa+ion. a means
whereby various local recrea+ion groups have an 0pp0r+uni+y +0 work +oge+her coopera+ively.

John S+uar+ Mill wr0+e in favor of cen+raliza+ion of knowledge bu+ decen+raliza+ion of power and
adminis+ra+ion. The spiri+ of +he recrea+ion movemen+ as a whole has been always agains+ regimen+a+ion in
any form. There is value in having differen+ kinds of experimen+s +ried in di+feren+ l0cali+ies. There is value
in having +he recorded experience of l0cali+ies submi++ed +0 local leaders. wi+h each local group free +o
use or no+ use +he ma+erial +ha+ has come ou+ of +he c00pera+ive movemen+.

Tha Na+ional Recrea+i0n Associa+ion has ever +hough+ of living as an end in i+self—has considered

cul+ura. grow+h. developmen+ of +he human spiri+ +h rough recrea+ion as +oo fundamen+a| +0 be exploi+ed‘
for minor purposes.

All +hese years wha+ has been done +hr0ugh +he Associa+ion by +housands upon +housands of volun-
+eers and employed workers has been wha+ money will n0+ buy. wha+ money will n0+ pay for. In +ha Asso-
cia+i0n +hese many years each problem has been faced from one p0in+ of view—Wha+ is bes+ for +he men.
women, and children affec+ed7

There are many families now in +he +hird genera+ion wi+h a deep loyal+y +0 +he Na+ional Recraa+ion
Associa+i0n.

HOWARD BRAUCH ER

 

APRIL I945

 

2 x "1 ~33.  RECREATION

Parallels

too much abroad in the land.

It invades all the corners of
most of our adult lives. “fork is
work and play is play and never the twain shall
meet. Art, music, religion, literature, thought,
every other section of living has each its separate
compartment in
t l] e d a y ’ s
scheme. There
is a place for
everything and
everything
must remain in
its assigned
spot. No won-
der there is so
much discon-
tent, so many
maladjusttnents
among adults
and children.
N o w o n d e r
there is so great
a lack of appre-
ciation for the
sensitive issues
of living. N0
won der the
ability to par-
ticipate joyous-
ly and freely in
those issues is
so often atrophied. For life
and the issues of living do
not lend themselves easily to being compart-
mentalized.

Recreation leaders everywhere want to build
programs that will provide fun and relaxation,
build self—esteem and confidence, bring about the
recognition that the best things in life are free and
that no person really lacks a share of gifts, a share
of creative ability that needs only to be released.
To these leaders is the golden chance. For into
their hands are entrusted the youngsters, upon
whom the seal of conventionality has not yet hard-
ened. Children are still willing to believe—even in
themselves. They accept the fact of creating as

THE SPIRIT of specialization is

APRIL 1945 V. 37

By CATHERYN ZERBE
Leader of Children's Activities
Department of Public Recreation

BaltimoreI Maryland

 

Children are not afraid of creative arts

iv

€97”

.2/
.3

natural. They are not compart-
mentalized. They recognize—~sub-
consciously perhaps—the indivisi—
bility of all life. They move easily
and freely from music to crafts to acting to art
and back again.

Those of us who have postwar recreation at
heart know that
it is high time
to try out plans
that will open
out for children
—— a n d f o r
adults, for that
matter—the
vast possibili-
ties in the ar-
tistic fields. Al-
r e a d y s o m e
such plans are
beyond the ex-
p e r i m e n t a 1
stage. Here is
a report on a
few “experi-
ments” that
worked.

Music—Open
Sesame

The problem,
as we in Balti-
more saw it,
was to open the eyes and the
ears of the imagination. \Ve
wanted the children who came to us to see and
hear beauty even at times and in places where
their untrained senses denied its existence. We
found the basic answer to our problem in a word
“participation.

We began with music. Children are not so
made that they can sit still and listen for a long
time. So, if 'they are to grow up with seeing eyes
and hearing ears they have to begin by experi-
encing music, painting, sculpture, the dance, dy-
namically and in correlation one with another.

Why, for instance, teach a song and stop there?
The average song can be dramatized. Many “songs

.694591 ' 3

4 PARALLELS

without words” tell a story
which may be acted out. Take,
for instance, Rubinstein’s
Kammanoi Ostrow. The mu—
sic describes a monastery on
an island in Russia’s great
Neva River. The monks sing-
the choral theme. The great
monastery bell sounds inter-
mittently the hours of devo-
tion. Children can be divided into two groups
when they listen to this music. Between them the
groups can interpret what they hear. One group——
choir-like—hums the melody. The other walks
slowly and solemnly with bowed heads and folded
hands toward a “cathedral door.” In the distance
someone strikes a soft tone on cymbal or triangle
in time with the bell tone in the music.

This kind of thing, the appeal to the ear merg-
ing... with the appeal to the eye and with the rhyth-
mic movement of the body, makes listening to
music a natural and easy part of the child’s experi—
ence, a normal joy of daily living, not an ivory
tower accomplishment to be practised covertly and
at long intervals. I

There are other ways, too, to correlate all the
art fields. There are at hand many themes to
serve as springboards into new adventure. Each
theme can be expressed in many media. Every
leader can develop his own ideas along the lines
of his own training and ingenuity. The children,
by the way, always help immeasurably. Give them
plenty of rein. Here are a few suggestions for
parallels. They have been tried and found not
wanting.

summer.

Families

Music was our focal point. It is not hard for
young children to learn about notation if they
learn to think of relationships. Relationship can
be established if chords are played on the piano
to demonstrate harmony and dissonance. Chil-
dren learn quickly to identify major chords as
bright, minor ones as sad. The relationships are
paralleled in color. Ask the children to choose
their favorite color combinations and demonstrate
their harmony by holding colored scarves together.
(Colored scarves, by the way, are a versatile prop-
erty. They can suggest interesting movements in
creative dance or they can supplement costumes in
dramatics.) When you have made your point about
the relationship of harmonizing tones, select two
colors that clash. On the piano play simultan-

I

From Baltimore comes an exciting story
of new experiments in the use of arts
and crafts in a recreation program. It
is included in this issue of the magazine
because it seems to us appropriate
material for playgrounds during the

References and an outline
for each of the themes discussed in
the article will

the National Recreation Association.

be

eously the A major triad and
the A minor triad. The non-
relationship, the disharmony
of both tones and colors will
be obvious. Related tones or
colors can be described, in
terms familiar to children, as
families.

Carrying over the family
idea into acting meets with
immediate response. A large group, divided into
units of five or six, and given five minutes to make
a play of a family scene will produce as many
versions as there are units. _

A good way to bring the family theme into
crafts is via a sampler exhibit. Samplers can be
painted, mural—typed, appliqued, embroidered,
sketched and colored with crayons. (The boys
need not be excluded because sewing is sissy!)
Family trees can be developed with interest and
artistry using the limbs of the tree for the chil—
dren and symbols to represent family hobbies and
interests.

available from

'Outlines

The outline of a song is its melodic and rhyth—
mic line. An artist first sketches outlines of the
points of interest in his picture. A biographer out-
lines the high points in the life of his subject. A
playwright dramatizes the strong characteristics of
situations or personalities. All of these facts can
be brought to children’s attention if they partici-
pate actively in different aspects of the “outline
theme.”

Play contrasted musicalselections on a record—
ing machine. Define the rhythmic outline with the
motion of your hands, beating the accents—one,
two, three; one, two, three; one, two, three. The
music will be easily interpreted as straight, curved,
or uneven in rhythm and so in outline. Children
will easily follow along with this game and
enjoy it.

They will like, too, to draw the outline of the
view from a window. Impressions are more im-
portant than actual effects. You can make a game
of this activity by giving the group three minutes
to study the scene. See how much each one can
remember and sketch of the general outline after
leaving the window.

Five minute biographical sketches of the out-
lines of lives of famous Americans are entertain-
ing. From such a thumb-nail sketch—read or told

7 -—children can devc10p a short play.

RECREATION

PARALLELS . 5

Shadowgraphing is ideal
for showing the import-
ance of outline. Christmas
carols and other songs can
be put on illustrated slides
and shown by means of il-
luminated boxes large
enough for groups to see
at a distance. Shadow
boxes, placed on pianos,
eliminate the use of separ-
ate song sheets in group
singing. Stories, too, can
be shadowgraphed. This
project incorporates art,
music, crafts, and dra-
matic appeal.

Patterns

It is important that chil-
dren become conscious
early in their lives that be-
haviour, our manner of liv-
ing, nature, even our very
habits of thinking follow patterns. The child. once
the word enters his experience and vocabulary,
begins to look for patterns wherever he goes.

Rhythmic patterns can be improvised by select-
ing at random any four or five tones within an
octave, playing them on a piano or singing them
over and over until they are familiar, and develop-
ing them in different rhythms to get different
“mood” effects. Or musical patterns can be graphi—
cally illustrated by introducing themes from great
pieces of music such as Beethoven’s Fifth Sym-
phony. If the entire first movement is played the
familiar “victory” theme is quickly identified and
recognized each time it appears and each time its
development is enlarged.

Rhythmic patterns are graphic. Rhythms in
four-four and two-four time suggest vertical and
horizontal lines; three-four and six-eight rhythms
suggest curved lines; syncopated rhythms are ir—
regular. Children following with crayon and paper
the impulses of contrasted rhythms in the music
they are hearing will create basic patterns for
design. Each “design” will be individual, and each
will reflect the listener’s response. This activity,
by the way, is a kind of super doodling, and it is
fun for grown-ups as well as for children.

If the youngsters use their hands and feet in-
stead of crayons and paper to describe the rhythms

they are hearing they will deve10p basic dance,

APRIL 1945

 

Courtesy Dcrlrtmcnt of Recreation, Pas-safe, N. J.

A rhythmic pattern may end —
who knows— in a full mural!

patterns. From basic dance patterns it is but a
step to a dance routine for favorite pieces of music.

Patterns are good basic material for acting.
Take one of the patterns of social behaviour
familiar to every child—answering the doorbell or
the family group sitting down to dinner or time for:
school. Divide the children into groups with one
group demonstrating the right way the other the
wrong way. Many fine professional dramas lean
heavily upon just such patterns of everyday living.
\V hen they act out details of daily life, children
become aware that very simple things appeal to
human interest.

Animals

Carnival of Animals by Saint Saens is a good
example of animal interest in musical design. The
suite, written especially for children, is humorous;
it offers stimulating creative Opportunity in four
fields of cultural interest—music, art, dance, and
drama. It is possible to get good recordings of the
music. If it is shadowgraphed, the staging adds a
craft project which requires little equipment. As
the music is played the children instinctively inter-
.pret the gestures—the roar of the lion, the jumping

5 PARALLELS

of the kangaroo, the galloping of the wild horses.
We interpreted the suite in four ways; as a mural
done on brown paper with crayons; certain num-
bers (The Swan, the Aquarium, the Elephants, the
Aviary) expressed in creative dance; the story
shadowgraphed on a scroll and projected while the
records were played; and with lingerpuppets
(made of paper) “acting” while a rhythm band
played the themes.

Rudolf Friml’s Animal Pictures is another good
listening subject. The music is written so inter-
estingly that the children love to look at it. The
fleas jump, the snake crawls. the chickens cackle.
and all very obviously in this original method of
writing.

Animal games, sketching trips to the zoo, story—
telling hours using many good authors who have
made animals “real personages” as Saint Saens
has done in the Carnival should follow upon hear—
ing such music.

Dance rhythms of an original nature will de-
velop from copying the characteristic movement of
animals. The elephant clumps, the horse trots, the
swan glides, the toad hops.

Animals ofl’er inspiration in design for craft
projects. Hats, wallets, handbags, wall-hangings,
and many other simple articles are much more fun
for children to make if animals are embroidered or
appliqued as the motif for design.

Seasons

Seasonal subject material is not hard to find.
Much beautiful music has been written about the
seasons. The proper and entertaining way to bring
it to children is the problem of the leaders. If
music about the seasons can be danced or drama-
tized, it becomes a part of the child’s association
with nature. Otherwise, he has just heard some
more good music!

Flowers, trees, spring, birds soaring, challenge
leader and children to find new ways to interpret
them. Flowers, for example, have individual char-
acter. The music that has been written about them
stresses the quality most typical of the subject.
The magnolia is dramatic, the water-lily ethereal,
the wild rose softly appealing. Country gardens are
a riot of tone-color. Dance programs, built upon
these characteristics, to descriptive music, exercise
the imagination.

Seasons are designated by changes in nature—
the wind, the sun, the frost leaving their imprint
around the calendar. Ideas for developing projects

relative to seasonal influences are legion. Look at
the everyday scene for signs that immediately af-
fect the children. Rain hikes and snow hikes for
instance are just as much fun as clear-weather
hikes when one is dressed fOr them. Sketching
pads should always be carried along. The habit of
sketching is as valuable to children as the habit of
literary composition. Both improve with practice.
If the craft group needs a design for a project a
runner of ivy found by the craftsmen is infinitely
better than a book of conventional design.

, Orchestras

Orchestras are excellent for producing varia-
tions on a theme. Discrimination of tones of dif-
ferent quality develops by making home-made in-
struments and learning to play them singly or in
ensemble. \Voodwinds can be made of elder-stalks
or bamboo, stringed instruments of cheese and
cigar boxes. Drums and tom-toms are always
tackled with enthusiasm and they are easily made
from tin cans and discarded drumheads contributed
by friendly proprietors of music repair shops. The
commercial miniature instruments made for the
purpose of teaching fingering are Splendid, but not
nearly so thrilling as flute or violin that you have
made for yourself—no matter how crude it may be.

This is primarily a craft project, just as seasons
is most easily interpreted in dance and drama, but
either can lead into other media according to the
leaders’ training and gift of imagination.

Instruments have character. The bass fiddle is
a humorist, the violin an aristocrat. The trumpet
is militant; the viola, in contrast, is modest. A
east of instruments might serve as a basis for
creative dramatics.

Summary

These are a few of the themes that have de-
veloped as program material in Baltimore. Addi-
tional themes offering great scope for parallels in
cultural activities are: composition, conversation,
folk art and music, the opera. They tend to give
the child an enthusiasm for the arts and crafts.
This kind of “artistic experience” avoids the ever-
present danger of making drama and the dance,
music and art something apart from everyday life,
something strange, not surely desirable as assets,
open only to a confraternity of initiates. But most
important of all the themes are fun, fun to “teach,”

.fun to do. And being fun they leave the children

eager for more experiences that look toward“ inte—
gration rather than dispersal of personality.

RECREATION

 

HE IDEA or HAVING playground art groups as
Ta city division of recreation activity during the

summer came from the children themselves.
They liked painting pictures as much as making
things. I discovered this at a community center
where I was conducting a craft class once a week
and an art class on another day for the same group
of children. It was a girls’ craft class, but the art
class soon develOped into a mixed group and ex-
panded considerably in size. I was amazed at the
number of boys who delighted in painting pictures.
I had thought that nothing could tear little boys
away from their wood and saws and hammers.
Their subjects were different, more masculine in
nature than those of the girls; pictures of boats,
airplanes, soldiers blossomed forth, but their delight
in creating with paints and brushes equalled that
of the girls.

During the winter I experimented with this one
group” I watched their interest grow; I noticed
what subjects they liked best and what kind of an
approach was needed; I saw how ‘cager they were
to express themselves when the preliminary stimu-
lation was adequate. We always started the class
by talking about a subject and getting ideas from
the group. If I suggested a store as a subject for
the day, we talked about what kinds of stores they
had been inside and what could be bought in vari-
ous stores, until finally everybody had an idea that
he or she was eager to get down in paint. I found
that encouragement and more and more en-
couragement was the best way to break down inhi—
bitions. At first some were a little afraid their
efforts might be laughed at, but when they found
that everyone painted in his own way and made
beautiful pictures in very different ways they
became less timid.

All this led me to believe that in our city play-
ground recreation program for the summer there

APRIL 1945

Art Groups

on
City Playgrounds

By HENRIETTA MORTON READ
Supervisor of Arts and Crafts
' Division of Recreation
Department of Public Parks and Recreation
Louisville, Kentucky

was a very definite need for art groups in addi-
tion to the usual handcraft groups. I had discov-
ered that, no matter how easily the outlined craft
projects lent themselves to creativeness, nothing
could take the place of the freedom and joy that a
big sheet of paper, a long bristle brush, and some
brilliant powder colors on a tin tray gave to a
child who was clamoring to express himself in
some way. I was also convinced that instructors of
the art groups should be artists or art teachers,
and not the regular playground leaders. This is
important, because in teaching art to children it is
more necessary to know what not to teach than
what to teach. Inexperienced pe0ple are apt to
inflict problems of persPective and realism on a
child before he is ready. Very often they have a
preconceived idea of art built on adult standards,
and therefore their criticism of child art is detri-
mental to the child’s normal growth.

As plans took shape it was evident that more
money would be necessary to supplement our reg-
ular though rather small craft budget. The extra
specialists on the payroll would require additional
funds, and art supplies, paint, brushes, paper,
drawing boards, thumb tacks, and colored chalk
would be needed in large amounts for such a pro-
gram. Letters were sent to individuals and organi—
zations who might be interested either from an
artistic or a social point of view, explaining the
plan and asking for small contributions. We em-
phasized the fact that'giving boys and girls a
worthwhile art experience through the summer
was one way to interest them in a constructive
project.

There had been so much talk about juvenile
delinquency throughout the winter that our appeal

7

8 - ART GROUPS 0N CITY PLAYGROUNDS

struck fertile ground.
Enough people thought it
an important recreation
project to put our budget
way over the estimated re-
quirement. The Specialists
were employed and ar—
rangements made for
groups on nine white and
two Negro playgrounds.
Announcements of the
groups and their locations
were sent to the public
schools so as to acquaint
as many children as pos-
sible with the program. There were newspaper
stories and radio spot announcements. After the
groups started, a local radio station interviewed on
one of their programs three of the children who
had attended the groups. It was an ad lib broad—
cast and the children told what playgrounds they
came from, what they had painted in the art
groups, and answered other questions pertaining
to the recreation program.

The average attendance after the groups got
under way was between twenty and twenty-five.
Some were as large as thirty—five or forty. They
met once a week, very informally, out-of—doors
under the trees or on the porch of a shelter
house. At first there was no definite system
of enrollment and any child who happened
along could paint if he liked. In many ways
this was advantageous-“a child could be
exposed to the enjoyment of eXprossing him—
self with a brush without feeling the definite
commitment to a set class which might seem

too much like school. On the other hand,
without the enrollment system
it was found that there were
too many different children
each time and not enough who
followed through every ses—
siOn. This varied in different
communities. It depended a
great deal on the
kind of full-time
leader the play-
ground had and also
on the neighbor-
hood.

Here again, as at
the community cen-
ter, the number of

The articles on painting by Mr. Alger and
Mrs. Marsh, published in the November issue
of RECREATION. have aroused so much interest
that we have planned to follow them up with
other articles on the subject.

Here is a story about some painting classes
in Louisville, Kentuclcyl which are equalling
in popularity the craft classes! AndI what is
iust as amazingI the classes are appealing
to boys quite as much as to girls!

Have you had any experience in developing

painting groups for children or adults? It sol
be sure to send us your story!

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

boys surprised me. There
were as many, if not more,
boys than girls, and all
over the city they painted
airplanes, boats, and war
scenes by the dozens.

The Way We Do It

This is the plan we fol—
low: The children each
take a drawing board and
tack on a sheet of gray
bogus paper. Then they
take their places on the
grass, near the supply
table. Two or three children are chosen by the
teacher to pass out the other supplies—tin cookie
sheets, each of which has a small supply of the dry
powder colors, long~handled bristle brushes, and
cans of water. In the meantime the teacher has
started talking about the suggested subject for the
day. At one session it may be playgrounds. “Just
look around and paint what you see,” the teacher
says. The boys and girls start talking about what
they see, and one idea leads to another—swings,
games, baseball, wading, children, baby buggies,
trees, art class. “Make your picture big. Fill your
whole page so the things in it bump the edges,”
and “paint it in your own
way,” are instructions re-
peated again and again by
the teacher. \Vhen all
the children are at
work she walks
around from one to
another, giving sug—
gestions and offering
encouragement, and
now and then hold-
ing up a picture for
the others to see as
she illustrates a point.
Most of the time the
others are too busy
painting to look, but
the child whose pic-
ture is held up has
a happy, successful
feeling. She never
asks what it is a
child is painting.

\lh.

(Continued on
page 49)

RECREATION

._.:

Joseph Lee Day—1944

L L o v E R t h e
United States
the children

and grownups
gathered joyously on July 28 to celebrate Joseph
Lee Day. On many playgrounds and in many cen-
ters, the entire week was set aside for special
events dedicated to him. Mayors issued Official
Proclamations. Newspapers carried special edi-
torials, news stories, and pictures. Street cars car-
ried cards of invitation. Bulletin boards in recrea-
tion centers and public libraries carried special
notices grouped around the photograph of Joseph
Lee.

The San Francisco Recreation Department ex-
pressed what we believe is the general feeling
about Joseph Lee Day when it said, “W' e are con-
vinced that wider and deeper understanding—a
real social trend—will grow out of the past four
years’ Joseph Lee Day observance. . . . We have
reason to believe that by fostering the everyday
use of the name, ‘Joseph Lee,’ children and their
elders will use his name as that of a friend.”

It is interesting to hear that far-away Hawaii

celebrated Joseph Lee Day in this year of war'."

Even farther away, leaders in recreation who are
now in the armed “forces planned special games
and contests in the Solomons, and in the anony-
mous “South Pacific.” Soldiers and sailors who
never heard of Joseph Lee learned about him from
their local news sheets, and played special games
in his honor!

San Francisco, California

San Francisco’s “living memorial" to Joseph
Lee spilled over the calendar on each side of July
28. Every day for five days children on play-
grounds walked and talked, sang and played, pic-
nicked and competed, in the conscious realization
of the friend whom they had never seen. At Madi—
son Playground, for example, each day began with
a tribute to Joseph Lee spoken by all the children
in unison. Each day’s tribute was different. Tues-
day’s couplet was typical of the starting of the
days and of the spirit that informed all the activi-

ties on all the days of celebration. It ran:

. We honor Joseph Lee today
In all we do and all we play

After the S tar-S pangled Banner and the salute

APRIL 1945

Joseph Lee Day wilLbe celebrated this year
on July twenty-seventh. Begin to plan now!

to the flag the days
progressed with
discussion, with
active and quiet
games, with music and crafts and storytelling and
dramatics and dancing. On Thursday morning,
July 27, the children and their director went to
North Beach for a field day and group picnic.
Friday was open house when “we invite all parents
and friends to visit with us and note the trends
that have been adopted in Recreation. . .” The
program at Madison Playground for Monday,
July 24, is a fair sample of the whole program:

United Playground Tribute in Chorus:

“To Joseph Lee, the Father of American Public Rec-
reation, we pay our homage and our adulation.”

10 :00 A. M.

1. Singing and playing of The Star-Spangled Banner
2. Salute to the fiag

3. Short talk by the Director on the life and work of-
Joseph Lee and his infiuence on the public recreation
movement in America

4. Singing of America

5. Open discussion, children participating, on what rec-

reation means in America to the community and
citizens and what recreation provides for all by
way of outlets, planned activities, and facilities

6. Singing of war songs from \Vorld War I and W'orld
\Var 11. (Mr. Lee’s work in W'orld \Var I)

11:00 a. M.

l. Volley ball game dedicated to the memory and work
of Joseph Lee

2. Singing and ring games by primary children, dedi-
cated t0 the memory of Joseph Lee

3. Playing of phonograph records from World War I,
and short talk on Mr. Lee’s efforts to further the

recreation movement in America during this time

4. Singing and playing of The Star-Spangled Banner in
grateful tribute for living in a democracy and being
able to enjoy the advantages of it and a public rec-
reation movement.

1:00 P. M.
l. The American’s Creed, pledged :by all
2. Singing and playing of I Love You, California

3. Discussion about advantages given to community
and citizens in California and in San Francisco in
the way of recreation activities

4. Kickball game, dedicated to memory of Mr. Lee.
2:00 Pi M.

1. Community singing—children’s choices

10

JOSEPH LEE DAY —— 1944

2. Competitive events in athletics, divided into two
groups:
Competition between smaller children
Competition 'between older children

3. P0pular phonograh records. (All groups)

 

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

 

ill _ _

Courtesy San Francisco Recreation Commission

 

3 :00 P. M.

1. Line ball game (Older group)

2. Ring and rope games (Smaller children)

3. Discussion of competitive events: teams, captains,
teamwork, substitutes, and alternates regarding forth-
coming competitive athletic events among play-
grounds. (Emphasis upon teamwork, fair play, and
cooperation: three essentials of Mr. Lee’s play-
ground philosophy)

4:00 P. M.
1. Relay races (lst and 2nd teams)
2. Interpretive dancing 'by smaller children to victrola

accompaniment in line with free play and expression
in playground activities as advocated by Mr. Lee

3. Play-oft kickball game. (1st and 2nd teams)

5:00 P. M.

1. Summary of day's objectives in keeping with tribute
to Mr. Joseph Lee .

2. Community singing and singing of The Star-
Spangied Banner as iinalc.

"At all City Playgrounds today
Open House will be in sway.
We invite all parents and friends
To visit us and note the trends
That have been adopted in Recreation
In all cities and towns . . . throughout the Nation!
Play with usI and you'll agree
We're mighty proud to honor Joseph Lee!"I
—The children at the San Francisco Playgrounds

RECREATION

JOSEPH LEE DAY— 1944 11

Courtesy Jacksonville, Florida, Department of Public Reoreation

All day festivities
for Negro children

Other Communities

The following brief accounts include only a few
of the other cities which celebrated Joseph Lee
Day in 1944. They will show the kinds of pro-
grams, and the widespread desire to perpetuate the
memory of the father of American Playgrounds.

Marietta, Ohio. Boys and girls from the Civitan
Playground wrote a play and produced it on the
other Marietta playgrounds. One of the lines was
“America forgot her children when she
built her beautiful cities.”

Wichita Falls, Texas. A two-day cele-
bration featured a pet show won by a
tame skunk and a three-legged dog. In
the local newspaper, a Federal government
official present in the city wrote: “Lee con-
tributed tremendously to the play life of
Wichita County, and much of the basic
reforms in the recreation movement can
be directly traced to his philosophy. . . .
What Joseph Lee stood for in contribut-
ing to the morale and well-being of our
uniformed forces in W'orld War I is still
important in ‘World ‘War 11.”

Long Beach, California. Thirty school
playgrounds and fifteen municipal areas
had special Joseph Lee Day programs.

Norfolk, Virginia. Nature tour of the

APRIL 1945

 

Park, and the Junior Horseshow Cham-
pionship were special features. The play,
“First Basketball Game,” was given in the
evening, followed by square dancing in the
park. All twenty-two playgrounds par-
ticipated. A thousand participants and
1,000 Spectators enjoyed the day’s ac—
tivities.

Decatur. Illinois. Ten Joseph Lee Day
programs were planned on the play-
grounds for July 27 with 3,051 children in
attendance.

Jacksonville, Florida. Joseph Lee Day is
one of the best annual all—day attractions
for colored youth. Each year an out-
standing special event is planned. In 1944
the event was a homing pigeon and bal-
loon ascension.

Los Angeles. California. The day was
celebrated on every playground by plays,
festivals, games, singing, dancing, music, poems,
stories, and handcraft exhibits. It was celebrated,
too, in the girls’ camp at Griffith Park.

Chester. Pennsylvania. An all-day Field Day
began at 10 ARM. with a flag raising.

Dallas, Texas. Joseph Lee Day in Dallas was “the
best ever.” Over 5,000 children and adults came.
The outstanding event was the Playground Follies
of 1944, featuring a Texas Dude Ranch as a back-

Balloon ascension at
Jacksonville. Florida

 

Courtesy Jacksonville, Florida, Department of Public Recreation

12

ground. The “Ranch” folks
entertained the “show” folks
in a variety of folk and
modern songs, dances, and
music.

JOSEPH LEE DAY— 1944

RECREATION LEADERS! What are you

planning to celebrate Joseph Lee Day
in I945? When your celebrations are
over send us word and photographs of
your program so that next year the
story may be as complete as possible.

sketch of Joseph E. Lee by
A. K. Powlison, Director

of Recreation; mass singing
led by Mrs. Lei Collins,
Supervisor of Music; un-

A big Play Day at Rever-
chon Park featured city—
wide tournaments in croquet, horseshoes, pony
shoes, and washers. Team races and competitive
games led up to a picnic supper, followed by an
exhibition ball game, a band concert, a street dance,
and a movie.

Augusta, Georgia. The Augusta H rrald car-
ried a long, two-column article on July 30, written
by Oka T. Hester, Superintendent of Recreation.
describing the work of the Department in great
detail. in it was included a tribute to Joseph Lee.
whose philosophy has been the basis for Augu'sta's
program. Also included was a letter written to
John Finley by President Roosevelt in 1933.

Englewood, New Jersey. All activities on Engle-
woods’s six playgrounds on July 28 were dedicated
to the memory of Joseph Lee. A Mummer’s
Parade was one of the special features.

Hopewell, Virginia. Special programs in honor
of Joseph Lee were held at HOpewell’s four recrea-
tion centers. The Mayor issued an official procla-
mation for the observance of Joseph Lee Day.
Special features included contests and relays, swim—
ming activities, boxing, dancing, a picnic supper,
and a softball game at the various playgrounds.
The day was so popular that neither the children
nor the adults would go home, and community
singing lasted until 9:30.

The Solomons. Lieutenant Commander Fitzger—
ald, in a base hospital in the Solomon Islands,
wrote: “Yesterday we celebrated Joseph Lee Day,
showing that a great prophet is not only honored
in his own land, but even in this distant spot.”

South Pacitic. Lieutenant

Commander Nathan L.

veiling of Joseph Lee’s pic-

ture (water color sketch)
drawn by Paul Tokunga, director of McCully Rec-
reation Center; singing skit; mass recitation of
nursery' rhymes; mass singing of Hawaiian folk
songs; amateur hour; band concert by the Royal
Hawaiian Band; softball game; displays of hand-
craft; nature study; hobbies; art.

“Bully for you for saying that the less organ-
ized play and playthings, the more suitable to the
imagination of children. The thing I am getting
us playground people to discuss is how in blazes,
with the natural tendency of human nature to
slick everything up and he orderly, we can have
on a small children’s playground (pre-baseball).
a sufficient mess to make the place habitable
to children. The ordinary junk pile is better than
the usual playground. And as for packing boxes

. and what might be called wooden rubbish (also

miscellaneous piles and bits of lead and iron and
half bricks), what could be nearer Paradise than
these? Of course a barrel with an incline you can
roll down inside of it is a little better, if there are
not too many nails sticking put inside, as in the
German story books.

“About the Public Gardens, its drawing power
and wide radius of use should be considered. I
remember many years ago seeing a coal heaver
looking at the flowers as he drove by.

“Can't the big boys be kicked off North End
Park? \V e kicked them off except for two after-
noons a week under a contract made by me with
John F. Fitzgerald, then Congressman. and rati-

fied by Father Knappe, the janitor, and the '-

Globc reporter. Father
Knappe was a jewel. I won-

Mallison of the U. S. Navy
sent us a copy of The Tat-
tlcr, the special news sheet,
listing a series of topinotch
athletic events lasting four
days, and giving a popular
biography of Joseph Lee.
Honolulu, Hawaii. The

program of the day con-
sisted of: welcome and brief

It has been suggested that in view of the
naming of a Liberty Ship for Joseph Lee.
one feature of the Joseph Lee Day celebra-
tion this year might well be an exhibit of
model Liberty Ships made by children of
the playgrounds' and judged by a commit-
tee which should include,it possible,a mem-
ber of the Navy who will tell the children
about Liberty ships and their function.

The Association hopes to have available
tor distribution within a few weeks plans tor
a model Liberty Ship of simple construction.

der where he is now? I'd
bet on him for Heaven if he
is dead and should like to
compare notes with him on
theology if I ever have the
luck to get there.”—From a
letter by Joseph Lee writ-
ten July I], 1928, to a citi-
zen of Boston interested in
playgrounds.

RECREATION

Recreation Goes to College

ville, Massachusetts, Recreation

Commission the past summer can be taken as
criteria, there’s a recreational bonanza in store for
America’s communities in search of additional
playground Space for their youngsters.

Somerville, the nation’s most thickly populated
city, woke up in the summer of 1944 to find that it
had one of the finest and one of the most pleasant
recreational resources in its best known institution
———Tufts College, with a student body of more than
2,500 men and women.

Long before recreation became a national de—
mand, Tufts College, its garden-like campus, and
its playing fields, were there “to be had for the
asking,” as the saying goes. But it wasn’t until
last summer, when the Somerville Recreation
Commission intensified its activities because of a
growing community need for more and better

Ir TIIE EXPERIENCES of the Somer-

By DAVID GELLER

recreational facilities, that all the
Tufts playing fields were placed at
the disposal of the local citizens. Although Somer-
ville first began to use this natural resource some
ten years ago, it was 1944 before the program be-
came extensive.

The Tufts administration readily assented to the
requests of the alert Somerville group. Persons
close to Dr. Leonard Carmichael, popular Tufts
president, have known from the first week in 1939,
when he took office, that he was eager to have the
college serve the public to a greater extent than it
ever had in the past. “A college or university, no
matter how large or small, has an obligation to
serve the community,” he had announced shortly
after taking office in 1939. He had indicated ways
whereby the college could be of greater service to
the community, but no one, until last summer, had
broached to him the subject of recreation, or the

Expensiver groomed acres at Tufts College become a playground

' APRIL 1945

 

13

l4 RECREATION GOES TO COLLEGE

 

Girl Scouts day camping on Tufts College's old campus

use of college grounds for recreational pur-
poses.

Don’t get the idea that the Tufts campus was
converted overnight into a recreation playground
for all of Somerville’s children! It wasn’t. Jan
Friis, able, genial, and understanding Tufts super-
intendent, who conducted a highly successful sum-
mer camp until the outbreak of the war, made sure
that the Somerville Recreation Commitee, saw eye
to eye with him before any program was under-
taken.

“we had to set up certain
limitations, especially about the
age groups and about the su-
pervision,” Mr. Friis said. “I
knew from my own experience
in working with boys that if
we allowed lads of fourteen and
over on the old campus or on
the Oval, the little ones, those

David GellerI a professionally trained
social worker' served on the staff of
the East Boston Social Center. He
has now returned to his first love—
public relations — working for his
alma mater, Tuftsl and for the Asso-
ciated Jewish Philanthropies. He is
firmly convinced that there are many
communities that might profit from
the Tufts-Somerville experience.

under twelve, would be pushed around. Second, it
was most important that the groups have good.
responsible supervision. This may seem like a big
demand but I had to make it because excessive
noise would interfere with the boys trying to study
in the dormitories. W’e had to be especially sure
on this score since we are a Navy V-12 training
center.”

The Somerville representatives accepted Mr.
Friis’s conditions and it is to their credit that they
more than fulfilled their share
of the bargain. You get an idea
that Mr. Friis was delighted
with the way the Somerville
group carried out the plan. He
watched the day-to-day prog-
ress of the two-fold program.
One part of it was a day camp
for more than sixty Somerville

(Continued on. page 44)

RECREATION

“Hey, Teach! What's That?"

N av, TEACH l What’s
H that ?” Hundreds of
times this past summer that question was
directed at the people carrying on the nature and
camping program Operated by the Public Recrea-
tion Commission of Cincinnati.
The program, as operated, consisted of three
main phascs: the First Settler Camp, the Mound
lluilders Camp, and the Traveling Camp.

The First Settler Camp

The First Settler Camp is located on the Air-
port Playfield, Cincinnati’s outstanding public play
' area. Twenty-live acres here have been augmented
by as much more privately-owned land adjoining
it. The whole area is located on the river bottoms
at the junction of the Little Miami River and thc
Ohio. This is historic ground. The area now
covered by playfield and Lunken Airport was
known by the early settlers as “Turkey Bottom.”
It was noted for the luxuriance of its growth as
well as the wild turkeys which roamed there.

This valley is the site of the first settlement in
the Cincinnati area. Thc cabin site of Captain
Benjamin Stites, first settler, is within a mile of
the camp. Also near—by is the Pioneer Cemetery,
now a park.

Before the white men came, this valley and the
surrounding hills were the “stamping grounds” of
the red men. Even today occasional Indian relics
are found in the soil. Before the Indian, the
Mound Builders were its inhabitants. Some signs
of their habitation remain near—by.

It is in this historic setting that the First Set-
tler Camp has been established. The program is
being built around the life and history of those
early days. The First Settlers were primarily
farmers, so the camp is, for the most part, a farm
camp. The plan of develop—
ment is to have all the build-
lugs and projects conceived
and carried on as the First
Settlers operated them in
the early days. A yoke of
oxen is a part of the live—
stock and much of the equip-
ment is of the hand or primi-

tive type.

APRIL 1945

By BENTON P. CUMMINGS

When all trees are classed as I'Christmas
trees or not Christmas trees." the time has
come for drastic action. in the opinion of

Mr. CummingsI who is Supervisor of Nature
Interest Activities for the Public Recrea-

tion Commission of Cincinnati, Ohio.

Cincinnati has taken action through its
Recreation Commission. and the result is a

year-round program of nature activities
which may have suggestions for other cities.

At present the area is serv-
ing two purposes. The Com-
mission hopes to be able to maintain a practical
operating farm some day. As yet such a farm is
not available so the land at the First Settler Camp
is serving a dual purpose. In addition to building
toward the future First Settler Program, a rudi-
mentary modern farm is operating in the area.
The attempt is being made to grow as much as
possible of the food needed by the summer camps.
The drought of the past summer hindered this
plan, but late cr0ps were better and a considerable
supply was canned, ready for use later in the
year. A poultry flock has been started and a
small rabbitry is growing. In addition to the .
animals mentioned, there are horses, goats, guinea
fowl, ducks, homing pigeons, and White King
pigeons in the present barnyard. Most of these
have been gifts from pe0ple interested in the de-
velopment of the program. Some ducks, rabbits,
and chickens were given to the farm when Easter
pets became too big for city apartments. This is
not only for demonstration but also for use as a
practical commercial farm.

,Part of the plowed area was set aside for indi-
vidual children’s gardens. Before this can be really
successful a steady water supply will be necessary
to combat the hot, dry, Ohio summers. Some gar-r
dens were conducted fairly successfully here last
summer. The children operating the gardens were
invited out to the camp one day a week all sum-
mer. They not only took care of their gardens but
participated in a full day.’s camping program.

These gardeners and playground groups make
up the campers for the summer. Every day a
group from one of the city’s forty-five playgrounds
visited the camp. Upon its arrival each group was
broken up into smaller camp groups and assigned
a camp site in the near-by
woods. Here it set up its
small camp and prepared to
cook its noon meal over the
open fire as did the first set-
tlers upon arrival at their
new homestead. After they
had eaten, a council fire
program was held at the
council circle. Nature games

15

i

10 “HEY, TEACH! I'VHAT’S THAT?”

emphasizing
farm life were
played here.
The lore of the
I n d i a n w a 5
brought in, too,
through a dis—
play of Indian
relics found on
the area. After
the council cir-
cle some phase
of farming com-
pleted the after-
noon. This was
always climax-
ed by a ride on
the ox wagon
which took the
group back to-
ward the street
car—and mod-
ern life.

W i t h t h e
opening of
school the program has gone on with renewed
vigor. During October over 600 different boys and
girls from the school classrooms visited the camp
with their teachers. For them the program was a
little different although the main features were
the same. These groups were shown through the
gardens where many saw growing for the first
time some of the common vegetables usually seen
by them only on a vegetable counter. Some hoed a
little, others picked. Almost 200 quarts of produce
were canned by the children during the month.
When this phase of the program came to an end, a
new program started featuring plants grown in—
side in pots, terraria, and aquaria. This will carry
through until early spring when the farming season
rolls around again.

The aquarium room in the Airport Playhouse
is an added feature during the winter. Here twelve
or fifteen varieties of tropical and nature fish are
kept, and interested school groups are shown how
to make an aquarium. This entire program is
under supervision of Bert Lawson, camp director.

The Mound Builders

The Mound Builders ' Camp was Opened last
summer and is not as far along in its development.
It is located on the \Valnut Hills Playfield grounds
where the area is rough and wooded. An Open

 

Charlie, the horse, is a real member
of "the gang" at Airport Farm

stone shelter has been changed into a closed lodge
which serves as the center of activities here.

The Mound Builders were selected to provide
the basic theme for this camp because the early
history of the area is that of these people. More—
over, the Mound Builders provided a splendid
approach to crafts as they were excellent crafts-
men as well as hunters and farmers. Most of the
campers who attended this camp Spent more than
one day, as the program was set up on the basis
of a week’s stay. Many neighborhood boys and
girls spent most of the summer here.

Three weeks of this camp were for girls only.
This period was sponsored by the Phi Delta Pi,
national woman’s athletic fraternity, who paid all
expenses of the campers, selected from the less
privileged areas of the city.

The program at this camp is also continuing
through the winter. Clubs meet here every after-
noon after school and on Saturdays. A picture
night with movies and slides is offered on one
night a week for neighborhood boys and girls, and

'a campfire for-7 adults on another night. As soon

RECREATION

“HEY, TEACH! WHAT’S THAT?” 17

r
on

‘ I
‘-

I

 

' I‘. '
G a» a”,
' .d’ ’ 3-35.! " .
~ ‘4, s 3““ ‘3
2. f.“ #‘3 "

'--~. .
' ‘

C aurtesy Public Recreation Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio

Cooking after the manner of their remote predecessors on this land
is the privilege of the "First Settlers" and the "Mound Builders"

as facilities allow, programs will be set up during
the day for school groups.

A Camp That Travels

The third phase of the camping program was
set up to provide a solution to two problems. It
had been the experience of camping groups in the
city that there was a lethargy concerning camping,
or an unwillingness to try something new. So, if
only a few of the children could be interested in
going to a camp perhaps the solution was to take a
camp to them. The plan would also provide for
taking a nature program to the playgrounds.

A truck was fitted out to carry the equipment
and staff. This was not elaborate for, as in the
other camps, the type of camping was primitive
and based on the small camp procedure. The Com-
mission was fortunate in obtaining a former wild
animal collector in the person of H. S. Spindler to

APRIL 1945

direct this. His wealth of experience was very
valuable. Each day the truck pulled up on a play-
ground and set up camp, The equipment included
cooking equipment, stones for fireplaces, firewood,
and a large variety of nature exhibit material.
Cages carried from ten to fifteen kinds of animals
and birds. Most of these were domestic animals,
but even these were new to many of the youngsters
on the playgrounds. There were interesting things
about all of the livestock .which were new to the
youngsters. A portable “barnyard” was carried on
the truck, and when it was set up on the play-
ground the rabbits, ducks, and chickens were
turned loose in it. Most were so tame that they -
could be readily handled by the youngsters.

The pet of the camp was Buttermilk, the goat.
She was so tame that she was turned loose on each
playground and romped with the children like a

'( C {Jittiitued on page .54)

What They Say About Recreation

" iLLiONs OF CHILDREN in the world today
M never learned how to laugh and play. That
is one of the main reasons we are at war,

because we want to protect these children.”—

iMayor Fiorello ll. LaGuardia.

“Any individual in whose early life the neces-
sary opportunities for adequate play have been
lacking will inevitably go on seeking them in the
stuff of adult life.”—Margaret Lowenfeld.

“Play gives a child what education, work, rec-
reation, art, and exploration provide adults.”—
Katharine W. Taylor in Parents’ M agasine.

“Who will deny that the opportunity to play,
and actual participation in unregimented sports
are among the cherished rights in the American

way of life which we want to protect and pre-
serve ?”—Carl L. N ordley.

“ ‘Municipal murder’ is the brand placed upon
cities who drive children into the streets to play
because of insufficient public playgrounds . . . the
toll in child lives taken by motor cars is a national
disgrace.”—From Recreation Activities Bulletin,
San Francisco Recreation Commission.

“In addition to building parks and playgrounds.
city managers must see to it that the parks and
playgrounds become centers expressing the gov—
ernment’s interest in men, women, and children all

over the city.”-—Hollis Thompson in The Plan—
ners’ Journal.

“We have our choice. \Ve will either support
playgrounds and all the increasing agencies for
children or we will support Sing Sing and then
some more Sing Sings.”—-Harry Emerson Fosdich.

“A. playground director must have patience;
must be able to develop confidence in the child of
little ability; must be kind but able to inspire
obedience; must be able to teach the child to lose
without discouragement but to win without boast-
ing; must be a sportsman but not a sport.”—
Frank S. Gaines, Berkeley, California.

.“Every step to assure family health and welfare
in the war community is a step toward assuring
more effective warfare.”—Charles P. Taft.

18

“Play is the natural learning activity of chil-
dren. Through it they digest some of the deepest
and most poignant experiences of their lives.”—
From School’s Out, by Clara Lambert.

“There are no rules in these great playgrounds
except those which we have laid down for our-
selves under the law, and no policing except what
is needed for the safety of those seventy million of
us who come from all over the land to enjoy them.”
—From Taming Our Forests.

"It is important to sound municipal manage-
ment to realize that playgrounds are as useful in
keeping down crime as policemen, and that suit-
able adult recreation will do more to preserve
loyalty to American ideals than a myriad of spies
and agents.”—Thomas H. Reed in Municipal
illauagemeut.

“Parks and playgrounds are meant to be used.
More than just a piece of land is needed. Not only
must parks and playgrounds be laid out for the
use for which they are intended, but trained lead-
ership is needed if the fullest value is to be realized
from our investment. Expanding usefulness of the
parks will require full-time recreation leaders.”—
li'rom The Greater Tucson Regional Plan.

“Happiness is a sign of good personal growth
just as radiant health is a sign of good physical
growth. It means that important powers are get-
ting their share of living—are not stultified and
starved for want of use.”—Katherlue IV. Taylor
in Parents’ Magasine.

“Laughter and play facilitate friendliness and
comradeship. They flaunt in the face of the world
one’s refusal to be scared; they transform unbear-
able pathos into a sort of divine comedy; they
divert attention from exclusive concern with the
perils at hand; they confer a priceless sense of
momentary detachment.”-——From Education and
the Morale of a Free People.

"Spare time is the time for adventure, for the
satisfaction of inner drives and yearnings which
are the legitimate expression of personality.”

RECREATION

Playground Miscellany

AKE-BELIEVE CHILDREN. Dolls, dolls, dolls!
M Dozens of them! Boy dolls and girl dolls
and animal dolls; bisque and rag and China;
“museum piece” dolls and dolls about to fall to
pieces from the loving handling of over-zealous
“mothers!” More than 250 dolls were displayed
in a semiieirele on the park lawn at the annual
doll show sponsored by the Recreation Council of
Valparaiso, Indiana. Come to see their “grand-
children” were more parents than had come to the
park in any previous week. .

Judged best of all the show was a doll whose
costume was made entirely of war bonds. Her at-
tendants were a WAC in full regulation uniform
and a Red Cross doll. There were many “bests”
to be decided—in some twentye-five classes. Most
of the exhibitors were, naturally enough, females
of the species. But four boys were among the
prize-Winners.

Individual and group singing and ice cream
(for the youngsters) topped off a very successful
event.

Material—Sand. During the week of July 10,
the fifteen playgrounds in St. Paul, Minnesota,
held a contest in sand modeling and sculpture.
The children of each playground selected their own
subjects which ranged from “Saipan Beach Head”
to the story of the Three Billy Goats Gruff. The
contest entries were judged on the following
points:

Number of participants . . . . . . . . . ..‘2 point for each child
Artistry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..1-25 points
Neatness (including the outside of the box) . .1-15 points
Detail and originality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..1-25 points
Size and proportion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1-15 points

“Indian Village,” with thirty participant model-
ers and ninety-five points, won high place. A total
of 220 youngsters worked on the models.

She had so many children . . .

APRIL 1945

 

Cosmos)! Recreation Department, Burlingame, California

‘19

20 PLA YGROUND MISCELLANY

Footligh’rs and Grease Paint. Last summer vaca-
tion time was a busy one for the drama section of
San Francisco’s Recreation Department. Several
thousand children had a part in play production,
puppetry, storytelling, and story plays.

Puppetry and Plays

Puppetry held precedence over regular play pro-
duction. A puppet play does not take the prepara-
tion that is required to produce a regular dramatic
play, and children can substitute more easily in

cases of absenteeism.

All the puppets were manipulated by the chil-
dren. On some grounds the young people made
their own puppets and stage and stage settings.

A total of forty performances were given for
district and individual playground audiences total-
ing 3,145 boys and girls. Hansel and Gretel, Cin-
derella, Red Riding Hood, Little Black Samba,
and Rtmtpelstiltskin proved to be the most popular.

Several playgrounds gave plays during the sum—
mer. However, because of vacations breaking into
rehearsals and necessitating substitutions in the
casts, many of the drama groups were suspended
for the vacation.

Stories in Action

Storytelling was more popular this year than
ever before, with the attendance totaling 9,854 of
which 1,155 were from the summer schoolyards.
In addition to the Department’s “Traveling Story-
teller,” many directors conducted their own story—

telling hours. Favorites among the children were
the Wee Red M an, The Five Chinese Brothers, A
Soldier in Trouble, and Fish in the Tree.

Story plays, a natural outgrowth in storytelling,
had an attendance of 1,816 children during the
vacation. The Story Play Festival held on Sat-

urday, September 8, was a huge success. In the -

morning there was a treasure hunt with clues
based on the stories of the Three Bears, Little
Black Samba, S now White and. the S even Dwarfs,
Red Riding Hood, printed on cardboard and at-
tached to the trees. The treasure was one of the
costumed characters from each of the stories
named.

Following the luncheon period the Story Play
Contest was held. Jack and the Beanstalk won

first place, The Three Bears second, and Little
Black Samba third.

The entire day was so thoroughly enjoyed by

 

Grand Forks Herald Photo

The harvest

the 700 children present that it will be made an
annual event.

The Seed and the Sower. The mystery of the
earth and the growth that takes place in the earth
have been close to the religious heart of men since
“time when the memory of man runneth not to the
contrary.” It is, therefore, peculiarly fitting that
the seed and the sower receive the ancient, solemn
blessing of the church at the time of the planting
of seed in the year 1944 when growth was a mat-
ter for concern to so many sowers of seed. At
Grand Fords, North Dakota, on Rogation Sunday
the churches honored in the observance this ritual
of growing things.

Victory gardens were for the third year in
Grand Forks, “one of the healthiest projects . . .
undertaken.” The Park District, the Grand Forks
Herald, the School Board, the Civic and Com-
merce Association cooperated throughout the pro-
gram. A twenty-hour course in gardening opened

the year’s activities on April 10. A Victory Gar—

RECREATION

PLAYGROUND MISCELLANY 21

den Harvest Show on September 8 and 9 closed
the season. '

Exercise to Beat the Heat. Citizens of West
Palm Beach, Florida. had the chance to keep mov-
ing last summer and to keep moving with pleasure
and profit to their health. The Superintendent of
Recreation saw to it that plenty of activity was
available.

Ducks to Water

Swimming had been sadly neglected in the Palm
Beaches for many years. But last summer West
Palm Beach got a new start toward becoming
“swim conscious.” During July and August 1,440
children learned the crawl stroke, the back stroke,
the breast stroke, diving, life saving. Two hundred
and lifty of these youngsters could not swim a
stroke at the beginning of the summer. By the
lirst of September they were well on the way to
being good swimmers, while those who already
had a start at the beginning of the summer had
gotten to be better and better swimmers as the
weeks wore on.

This achievement is all the more remarkable
because West Palm Beach had no swimming pools
of its own. These boys and girls had to travel a
minimum of three miles before 9:00 A.M. twice a
week for their lessons. They didn’t mind. But
they will probably help- persuade people in West
Palm Beach that a pool is a good postwar project
for the community!

Game, Set, Match — For Free!

Tennis looked pretty “sour” to the youngsters
of west Palm Beach in the summer of 1943. It
took money to play the game. Racquets and balls
could (war conditions permitting) be come by
somehow, but when it came to buying a permit—
$1. 50 for an annual fee or lifty cents for live con-
secutive day’s play—that was another matter and
a serious one for young pocketbooks. Most of the
young people didn’t have that much money to be
spent on tennis. There were too many other places
where allowances had to go. Children weren’t
playing tennis, and good junior tennis players
were as scarce as tennis balls and nylon strings
for racquets. ,_

In 1944 the Superintendent of Recreation per—
suaded the Recreation Commission to do away
with the fee for youngsters. Then he set tohwork
to rebuild tennis interest. He gave free lessons at
all parks during the summer. By the end of the

APRIL 1945

season 1,260 boys and girls were by way of know-
ing the game. If they were not potential Davis
Cup team members right at that moment they
were at least good enough tennis players to enjoy
the game.

Ideas on Paper

West Palm Beach ended its season for 1944
with a circus that came just at the time the Ameri—
can Legion decided to Sponsor the National Paper
Drive. The circus seemed a good time to add to
the paper scrap. A bundle of paper was a ticket of
admission, and all the “admission prices” served
to swell the carload which finally pulled out of
West Palm Beach. The paper piles grew, too, be-
cause live pounds of paper would buy a ten ounce
glass of lemonade. Sugar, lemons, and limes were
contributed by the children of one of the play-
grounds. The sun was hot that day, and by mid-
afternoon the adults, who did not bring any paper,
were wishing they had, just to get some lemon-
ade! The committee serving the drink did not
budge from the rule, “Five pounds of paper buys
a glass of lemonade.”

A big truck was driven up to the gate of the
park in the afternoon, and the paper was collected,
weighed, and loaded by a committee made up of
children. When the show was over the American
Legion had a truck load of paper, almost two tons
to be exact, including eight hundred empty paper
cups, which had been used to drink the ninety gal-
lons of lemonade.

Five for Five. Take any live youngsters from ten
to sixteen on any playground in Cleveland, Ohio.
Set them to work on a playground project each
week for live weeks, and you have the makings of
a Pentathlon.

The Cleveland Plain Dealer Playground Pen-
tathlon has been held each summer since 1938.
Teams of live youngsters work at their projects in
competition with other teams on their playgrounds.
Each team is scored every week. At the end of the
lifth week the team with the highest score on each
playground is declared winner and joins with win-
ning teams from all over the city in an all day
outing provided by the Plain Dealer.

The sponsoring paper provides the score sheets,
posters, weekly bulletins as well as the winning
trip. They make certain suggestions for running
the competition. But most of the details are left
to the local autonomy of the playground work-

(Continued on page 49)

Playgrounds Round the Calendar

HE YEAR WAS 1905. The
Tplace was Los Angeles,

California. The participants
were assorted recreation lead-
ers and recreation seekers.
The event was an important
one. Los Angeles was in-
augurating a system of play—
grounds under an independent municipal commis-
sion. The years between have added many cubits
to the stature of that department. Today there are
fifty-two playgrounds in the city. In the begin-
ning attention was centered on those neighbor-
hoods whose lack of the simplest luxuries, even of
sonfe of the fundamental necessities of life, caused
them to be dubbed “underprivileged.” But points
of view change, and it has long since been recog-
nized that any community can be underprivileged
——and breed anti-social behaviour—if it lacks
adequate facilities for recreation. So, in later years
as Los Angeles has grown, playgrounds have been
built in neighborhoods where people’s incomes
are well above the sub-marginal level usually as-
sociated with the word underprivileged.

Primary concern of all playgrounds in the city
is to give such continuous recreation leadership to
boys and girls that the youngsters will develop
positive and creative attitudes toward the use of
time. The recreation leaders hope to eliminate
misdirected leisure from the lives of the young
people of the city.

Nor is this lmpe a fireside dream of visionaries.
Programs and methods are accomplished facts,
and they have produced definite results. The pro-
gram is continuous. Playgrounds are open the
year round every day in the week. During the
evening many recreation activities for young peo-
ple are carried on in night-lighted outdoor areas
and in indoor community centers.

There are more than thirty boys’ clubs at the
playgrounds. Sports are uppermost in the inter-
est of club members, but hikes, handcrafts, and
hobbies play a large part in their programs.

Girls, too, are provided for in clubs. There are
thirty-nine “Lamp Clubs” —— character-building
groups—on the playgrounds. They foster better
citizenship through recreation. Special camping
trips and outings highlight the year’s program for
these clubs.

22

Los Angeles' playground program has
been going on for forty years. To-
day her many playgrounds are provid-
ing year-round leadership for young-
sters who are finding normal outlets
for normally abundant energies. live
curiosities. and youthful enthusiasm.

Youth camps are important
features of the activities. A
girls’ camp is operated by the
Recreation Department. Here
groups of girls from the play-
grounds or from other city or-
ganizations for girls may spend
a week end or longer. Plans
are now afoot to set up similar camping facilities
for boys. There are, too, municipal mountain
camps run by the Recreation Department, and to
these youth groups are taken frequently.

Children and young people from the playgrounds
take part in all favorite sports and games as part
of the daily schedule. In addition, special sports
leagues and tournaments for junior and senior
high school age youngsters are arranged. A year-
round sports activity program is fostered by the
Recreation Department with the c00peration of
other civic groups. Participation in four seasonal
sports—basketball, softball, baseball, and touch
football—is made available to all boys of junior
and senior high school age. Young people who do
not play on regular school teams can thus take part
in local tournaments and district and city-wide
competition at the playgrounds.

Teen-age dances have long been a regular
feature at many municipal playgrounds which have
suitable community buildings. Matinee dances
under Parent-Teacher sponsorship for teen-age
boys and girls have been carried on for many
years as a popular feature of the playground
schedule. In addition, a number of evening dances
sponsored by youth groups and committees have
been held at the playgrounds. One of the most
outstandingly successful of these has been a dance
held semi—monthly under the auspices of the North
Hollywood Youth Dance Committee, a civic group
that uses the playground facilities. The boys and
girls who come to these dances are given a card
of membership on which are listed rules of con—
duct which the young pe0ple themselves have set
up and to which they hold their fellow members
with great strictness. These dances, under good
leadership and with excellent orchestras and enter—
tainrpent, have been attracting from 300 to 600
participants on each occasion and have been so
successful that the group now plans to erect its

own building on the playground as a permanent

RECREATION

PLAYGROUNDS ROUND THE CALENDAR 23

youth center. Similar evening dances for teen-
agers have been developed at other playgrounds
in various parts of the city and are growing in
popularity. Fourteen of the P. T. A. sponsored
dances are now being held every week at as many
different playgrounds.

Municipal playgrounds are the original youth
centers. In Los Angeles they have long been used
as “hangouts” for boys and girls and young people,
who are attracted there not only by organized
dances, entertainment, sports events, and hobby
clubs; they also come in their free time to use
athletic equipment, to play ping-pong, volley ball
and other games, or to join in impromptu musical
or other activities.

The war brought new problems and new chal-
lenges to the Recreation Department. Public hous-
ing projects and areas congested almost beyond
belief by war workers were not being served by
playgrounds and recreation facilities. The housing
projects presented their own peculiar difficulties
for the young people living there. Many families
accustomed to wider living space were brought to-

gether in close proximity. Many of them had left
their neighborhoods, dear through long familiarity,
to_ come to a new and unknown community. Their
racial and individual backgrounds were vastly dif-
ferent. Here was a new melting pot, compressed
in space and time. Many of the parents were
putting in long hours on war jobs. For the young
pe0ple of these projects, an adequate recreation
program was a must. __

The Los Angeles City Recreation department,
in cooperation with the Housing Authority of the
city of Los Angeles, and aided by funds provided
by the federal government, assigned recreation
leaders to organize recreation programs in fourteen
of the city’s largest housing projects. The results
were gratifying. These recreation programs have
aided housing projects to establish a very high
record of good conduct among their young people.

Two areas in the city became especially con-
gested when war brought new workers in droves
to the West Coast cities. Before the war these
areas had had no special municipal recreation fa-

(Contimtcd on page 53)

"Young people who do not play on regular school teams can . .. .. take
part in local tournaments and district and city-wide competition"

 

APRIL 1945

. ', _ .1
. ‘r l

/ 1:5. 

Cmcnesy Revelation Commission, Raleigh, N .

 

Spreading the News

ONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA, is a
L city of wartime industrial,
military, and naval activity.
Much of the population is in
flux and conditions of living are
nearly as changeable as the population. Recreation’s
problem is to adapt to these changes playground
activities that have been tested and proven in the
doing. Plans for the 1945 playground season,
therefore, follow closely upon 1944’s patterns.
Emphasis in 1944 was on getting the coopera-
tion of other community groups. Manpower short-
ages put a premium on volunteer personnel. Even
more important was the need to stimulate a wider
interest in recreation as a force for maintaining the
morale of young and adult citizens. The plan was
highly successful. The public library, for example,
sent a bookmobile to several playgrounds. The
mobile library was scheduled to tie in with story
hours and drama programs. The P.T.A. helped
finance the mid-day stew at Camp Seahawk. The
Audio-Visual Department of the public schools
provided motion picture projectors and skilled
operators for showing motion pictures on the play—

grounds.

Movie Trailer Publicity

In line with this aim to spread recreation’s
story as widely as possible, a new scheme of ad-
vertising the playground programs was worked
out. Through the cooperation of the motion pic-
ture theater managers, a {00-foot trailer is being
projected on twenty-one theater screens. Consid—
erable favorable comment has come about as a
result. One printer-publisher called it “the best
publicity I have seen used by the Recreation Com-
mission.” This is a strong statement because his
company has printed many booklets and folders
for the department. No doubt this plan of pub-
. licity has been used effectively in other cities, but
the details of our experiment may be of some value
to those communities which have not tried the
method. In essence, the trailer idea is simply a
modernization of the old picture slide.

It is difficult to evaluate definite results obtained
from this publicity method. We do know that our

publicity material is being presented to hundreds
of people, and it is highly probable that many of

24

By LLOYD A. ROCHFORD
Publicity and Research Consultant
Recreation Commission
Long Beach. California

them might not read printed an-
nouncements very carefully.
For the benefit of those who
might want to try movie trailer
publicity, certairi points can be
stated. Concerning these points authorities seem
to ‘agree. In the first place, there is a recognized
tendency of audiences to become impatient when
advertising appears on the screen. There is little
sustained interest for such material. People have
come to see a feature picture, not to read announce—
ments. With these facts in mind, authorities say,
“Make it brief!” Don’t strain the goodwill of the
audience. About 100 feet is the length of trailer

. material recommended. This is a little over a

minute’s-«worth, since film runs on the screen at
the rate of ninety feet a minute.

Our trailers have text written for three frames.
Fifteen words is the maximum for each frame.
The text for each is divided into relatively short
sentences so arranged that one sentence appears,
then another is added until the complete statement
for the frame has been seen.

W’ e selected three photographs, with the idea of
presenting the greatest possible photographic ap-
peal in the time allowed. The sharpest prints you
can obtain should be used. Or you can use original
drawings in cartoon style. Whatever the pictorial
method the following is the order in which the
trailer unfolds:

First the picture appears on the screen. A let—
tered announcement, progressively added to until
the complete materials for the frame is shown, is
superimposed on the picture. The first picture
fades out and a second appears carrying on the an-
nouncement. This gives way to a third picture
and the closing statements. Because these trailers
are stills, a musical theme accompanies the entire
showing of the trailer.

Patriotic drives, commercial campaigns, an-
nouncements of the theater’s coming attractions
must compete for attention and space with play—
ground trailers. Since the trailer is shown with-
out charge, the Recreation Department must take
its chances along with the others—must take what—
ever space it can and be thankful. In Long Beach
we have been given an advantage. Our trailer is

(Continued on page 52)

RECREATION

IF'_I-

Three to Fifty

Mt. Lebanon's Story of I944

oUNT LEBANON, Pennsylvania, (population,
M i940, 19,571) is not, as cities go, a me—
tropolis. But it has a great big idea about
recreation. In 1944 there were seven playgrounds
run by the Mt.Lebanon Public Schools Department
of Recreation. Between June 26th and August 4th
the average weekly playground attendance was
about 3,400—boys, girls, and adults—and that in
spite of a. polio epidemic which kept many children
at home.

Over 70 per cent of the department’s trained
personnel'had gone to war in some capacity or
another. The other 30 per cent went undauntedly
to work planning the usual full summer program.

.They tilled up the ranks with high school students,

teachers, college girls, married women who used
to be recreation workers, mothers active in com-
munity organizations. All these came together in
a pre-season training institute. Enthusiasm, inter-
est, intelligent cooperation made up for lack of
experience.

On June 26th the seven playgrounds opened for
a six week period, and opened with a bang. Interest
ran high among the
playground popu-
lation. Counsellors
were enthusiastic.
Community or-
ganizations were
interested and co-
operative.Thepro—
gram was well
planned. Each
week had its spe—
cial events lined
up in advance.
Trips to museum,
zoo, planetarium;
overnight hikes;
pet and doll shows ;
nature and athletic
events; dramatic
and musical pro-
ductions followed
each other week
after week.

Apart. 1945

The in-between times were packed interest full.
Sports were high on the list of popular activities.
Shuffleboard, badminton, baseball, mushball, vol-
ley ball, basketball, dodge bat ball, aerial dart
tennis, quoitennis, hop-scotch, jump rope kept
active bodies actively occupied. For the very
small fry there were jacks and bean bags and
circle games.

But sports were not the only interest. Activities
varied somewhat on the different playgrounds. At
one for instance, a model airplane club was formed.
Fourteen boys built model planes and flew them
in both free and tethered flights. There was, too,
an over-all program whose seven parts were open
to any child in the city.

WoodshOp

Boys and girls from ten to sixteen years worked
in the woodshop held daily in one of the high

Three boys and a~power saw

 

Caurtesy W'oterloa, Iowa, Recreation Department

25

26 THREE TO FIFTY

schools. There were two
sessions each day, one
for children from ten to
twelve; the other for
older boys and girls.
All of the youngsters
worked on scrap or left—
over materials. All of
them used some or all
of the power tools.
There was no accident
during the whole six
weeks.

Dancing and Music

For practical pur-
poses dancing and music
were combined. The
dancers were divided into three groups according
to age. The youngest learned the principles of
dance movements, simple tap routines, singing
games. The in-between ages learned basic ballet
routines, did some bar work, learned folk dances
of Russia and Denmark. The older girls and boys
divided their time between folk dancing and ball-
room dancing.

Three times a week the whole group gathered to
sing. They sang “pep” songs, rounds, French folk
songs, songs of the fighting services. An all-girl
toy orchestra gave its members an opportunity to
learn rhythms and the basic figures used by or-
chestra conductors. '-

Dramatics

For work in dramatics there was, again, a divi—
sion by age. The younger children in two groups——
five to seven and eight
to eleven—made their
own skits and stunts
and prepared for pro-
duction two fantasies,
The Kingdom of the
Rose Queen and God
Pan Forgotten. The
third group—girls be-
tween twelve and four-
teen—worked on pan-
tomimes, monologues,
and a play called Bless-
ings in Disguise.

Arts and Crafts

The arts and crafts
program, in spite of the

 

Courtesy Board of Education, Ithaca, N. 1’.

Making things is fun

Let's cook out of doors

 

Courtesy Board of Education, Ithaca, N. Y.

well—known war short-
ages, went along mer—
rily and successfully.
Scrap leather and scrap
metal appeared from
store rooms—remnants
of past summers. Lan—
yards and cord were
metamorphosed into
highly successful leashes
and belts and whistle
holders. The craft
groups began to find
out the fascination of
working in plastics and
glass. And they took
with joy to clay model—
ling to which most of
them were introduced for the first time. There was
so much interest in this last activity that many of
the boys and girls “declared when the season ended
they were going on with making things in clay at
home, carrying over the skills they had learned in
the summer.

For Little Children

A special plan was evolved for work with chil-
dren from five to eight. For them the day was
broken up into smaller pieces—pieces of a size
with their powers of concentration and ability to
stay quiet. Arts and crafts were followed for them
by dancing and music. Storytelling out of doors was
the prglude to a period of playing favorite singing
games? Swimming topped off each morning.

Each of the six weeks had its own peculiar
theme. Animals, the child’s own imagination, home,
toys, people of other
lands, one or the other
ran through and moti-
vated all of a day’s ac-
tivities.

Nature Lore

Nature lore plans in-
cluded field trips ,“nose-
bag” hikes, visits to
museum and conserva-
tory, an overnight camp-
ing trip, bird and flower
identification classes.
The younger children
held an insect circus and

(Continued on page 47)
RECREATION

l
l

5

This Is My Town

HERE WERE in Bernardsville,

New Jersey, in the summer

of 1944, many children whose
fathers were in service or c0ping with the various
shifts at war plants; whose mothers were busy at
the Red Cross, at the Hospital for Veterans, or the
Scamen’s Rest. Bernardsville children were a
challenge to Bernardsville’s ingenuity. These war
services had to go on. But some counter-balance
to parent-empty homes was an obvious necessity
when closing schools put youngsters on their own

resources.
l'

A Challenge to Meet

The way to meet the challenge was not far to
seek. The Recreation Committee of the local De-
fense Council and the local Parent-Teacher As-
sociation realized that playgrounds could provide
normal and safe outlets for the children. The two
groups appropriated money for the salary of a
trained playground leader. The Board of Educa-
tion provided the space—school playgrounds for
fair weather, and indoor gymnasiums for rainy
days. The Supervisor of Art in the schools was
engaged as playground director.

The director was solely responsible for equip—
ment, program, management. For assistance she
had women from the P.T.A. groups who volun-
teered their special talents for the same sessions
each week. Any volunteer who was forced to miss
a session assigned to her arranged for her own
substitute. From this volunteer group came lead-
ers for sewing, storytelling, dancing, sports. The
group also provided assistance for all the other
activities on the playgrounds.

Theory —

In addition to her training in art, the director
had specialized in music. She recognized the
value of the arts as a counter-weight to the emo—
tional strain set up by the war. Music and crafts,
acting and dancing were important parts of the
program from the first. As the summer heat and

drought grew with summer’s lengthening days, it:

became more and more important to use the ample
shade of the school’s twenty-five acres for arts and

crafts instead of for active sports in the hot after—
noon sun.

APRIL 1945

By HELEN C. YEAGLE

Bernardsville, New Jersey

—— And Practice

The arts and crafts program
was, in general, centered about
points of special interest. A collection of authen-
tic American Indian art was lent to the group.
One of the mothers told the children about Indian
craft. The youngsters themselves dressed in In-
dian costume and acted the role of Indians;
studied Indian design and copied them in clay;
wove Indian designs into bags and scarves; fol-
lowed Indian patterns in rhythms and songs and
dances.

One'of the P.T.A. volunteers had lived for
many years in China. She talked to the children
on several occasions about Chinese manners, the
Chinese language and sign-writing. She brought
her collection of Chinese costumes and interesting
objects of one kind and another to the playground.
With her help and the inspiration of her “exhibit”
the children learned to sing in Chinese, to paint
Chinese symbols. They wrote an original skit and
acted it costumed in authentic Chinese clothes
against a Chinese background made by a begin-
ning artist, using fans that they had created for
the occasion.

A high point of the summer was a recital by an
operatic singer. She sang in native Finnish cos-
tume, self-accompanied on the accordion. She
brought with her a collection of art pieces and wood
carvings which she used to explain native cos-
tumes, art, and music.

An hour each morning was given over to crea-
tive writing and acting for those youngsters who
were interested in these activities. The children
chose their own subjects and gave a demonstra-
tion of their own interpretation of those subjects.
The leader integrated each child’s contribution into
a script and directed the “production.” Friday
afternoon was the time for the presentation of
original plays, skits, music, dancing.

Evaluation

The interest in the productions and the obvious
enjoyment of participants and audience alike was
a joyous testimonial to the success of this kind of
creative work.

At the end of the season a bazaar and exhibi-
tion of arts and crafts was held in a vacant store.

(Continued on page 49)

27

 

Courtesy Park Department, New York City

CI of Play"

"To dig ’rhe
sandy shoreu

 

What About Our Returning Service-men?

In these articles, Harry D. Edgren of USO, and Lloyd A. Rochford of the
Long Beach Recreation Commission discuss the problem of the returning ser-
viceman and his community. “ll/hat can be done through recreation,” they
ash, “both for disabled men in hospitals and those who return uninjured?”
RECREATION is anxious to gather as much information as possible regarding
plans being made or experiments already being worked out by recreation de-
partments and private groups. Let us know what you are doing and planning.

Recreation—War and Postwar

By HARRY D. EDGREN, Ed. D.

HIS WAR, with its varied and unusual demands
Ton men and women in and out of the service,
has highlighted the role of recreation in the
life of the American pe0ple. The Recreation and
Welfare program of the Navy; the sports program

of Naval aeronautics; the Special Service pro-
gram of the Army; the Defense Recreation Com-

mittee of Civilian Communities; the Recreation
and Physical Fitness Division of F.S.A. ; the USO,
and all the activities of churches and other private
agencies are some of the developed recreation
efforts of World War II. The potential use of
this experience in the postwar world will depend
largely on what professional pe0ple like you and
me make of it.

War is inevitably wasteful but it is also full of
lessons. It is a few of these lessons to which I
would first call your attention tonight.

Through the efforts of our colleagues who are
responsible for recreation in the armed forces.
many men and women have had a satisfying ex-
perience in a number of recreation activities. To
many it has been their first contact with such ac-
tivities as music, soldier shows, and sports and
games and physical training. To many the adapta—
tion to living out of doors, first learned on bivouacs
and then practised in jungles, has been a new kind
of adventure and one to which the American
soldier has responded.

Group life lived with a few
men on isolated outposts, in
Nissen huts, tank corps, or
bomber groups, has to many,
been their first experience
with a small group of men,

30

Mr. Edgren. who is USO Program Co-
ordinator. Community
ations. gave this address before the
meeting of the New York State Physi-
cal Education Society held in January.

Conducted Oper-

the members of which have meant everything to
one another.

The extent to which our servicemen and women
have had a contact with live entertainment is indi-
cated in the recently released figures of Camp
Shows, Inc. In the past three years they have
given 177,473 performances to 99,000,000 service-
men. Through these military programs our men
and women have been able to continue some of
those activities learned under you, as well as to
learn new ways of participating with friends in
en joyable'activities that satisfy their needs.

I have watched them by the hundreds in the
PK, the bar, the day rooms, and the service clubs
of camps enjoying new-found friends in recreation
activity. “Buddies” has come to have a new and
all important connotation. This whole business of
social relationship and friendship is worthy of par—
ticular note. Two illustrations will give point to
this concept. In a conversation recently with a
corporal who had had twenty months in the Afri-
can theater of war, I asked him if men who had a
difficult time making an adjustment in camp over
here had as great a difficulty overseas. He said,
“No I” For men whom you hated over here became
your buddies over there, because men are all you
have there. Men are your only recreation !”

Last month, while visiting some USO mobile
units along the North Carolina coast, I was observ-
ing a bingo game at a Marine Air Base. In the
middle of the game a plane crashed 250 feet from
us. At the first inkling of the crash, all 150 men

threw their bingo cards into the air and ran to the

plane, which had lost its tail and right wing, and
broken its propellor in com-
ing in short of the landing
strip. The pilot, unhurt,
stepped out of the cockpit
with a very derogatory com-
ment on the motor. After he

RECREATION

WHAT ABOUT OUR RETURNING SERVICEMEN? 31

was whisked away to the medical office for obser—
vation, I talked with about twenty-live men from
9 P. M. to II RM. that evening. Without excep-'
tion, not a single man gave any expression of criti-
cism of the pilot. Their attitude could be expressed
in the words of one man who said, “They ought
to get rid of that old crate. It’s seen its day.” This
is an indication of group loyalty and support of
the other guy (yes, akin to love) that may be very
significant. Yes, the very reason men are willing
to face death.

Why Do They Come?

Some 183.0115 learned by the USO while serving
the servicemen and women when they are in town
is worthy of note. Here is a civilian organization
with 3,000 professional recreation workers, using
3,000,000 volunteers, and serving 30,000,000 ser-
vicemen per month. In a recent study conducted
by the Army Research Division here are the rea-
sons why they come to the USO:

(I) To meet and mingle with friends

(2) To maintain a continuing sense of belong-

ing to the larger civilian society from which
they are physically separated

( 3) To pursue interests and express attitudes

that get inadequate expression in the mili-
tary environment

(4) To become known, accepted, and given
status as individuals

(5) To ease their sense of loneliness and of
“homesickness” in their transition from
civilian to military life

(6) To secure new expefience, release, rest, re-
laxation and recreation as an antidote to
the strain, tension, and routine of military
experience

In addition this study revealed some other facts

important to us as educators:

(I) The USO program has had greater appeal
to the urban boy. Sixty-six per cent of the
servicemen who come to the USO come
from towns of 25,000 or more. This against
fifty-three per cent of this class in the
service.

(2) USO programs appeal to high school gradu-
ates and college men. Seventy-two per cent
of the men who come to the USO are high
school graduates or college men. This

against forty-two per cent of this class in
service.

(3) Men who belonged to civilian organizations
tend to use the USO. Two-thirds of the

APRIL 1945

men who attend the USO are men who
have been members of one or more or-
ganized community agencies before entering
the service.

While these have been some of the experiences
of servicemen, civilians, too, have been learning the
meaning of friendship and the satisfaction that
may come to peOple from social intercourse with
others. The thousands working together in civil-
ian defense, and the million volunteers in the USO,
though prompted by a spirit of patriotism, are
learning the reward of service to and with their
fellow men.

When They Return Home

The thousands of men and women lifted out of
their home towns, many to the armed forces, some
to other cities will come back to our communities

They will want, on their return home.
to continue the enioyment they have
experienced in doing things together

 

Photo by Karfhtke

32 WHAT ABOUT OUR RETURNING SERVICEMEN?

 

looking for the same town
they left. It won’t be the
same because their family
and friends will have
changed, many friends won’t
be there, and, most impor—
tant, they, too, will have
changed. To many of them
our pattern of living will
appear very barren and
sterile. The professional
physical educator and rec-
reation specialist are needed
at this point in assisting
these individuals in their
adjustment to civilian life. The trained health,
physical education and recreation worker can be
one of the most vital factors in helping both civilians
and returning servicemen to bridge a gap that may

prevent good assimilation.
In a recent trip west I st0pped in a USO club

in Chicago. The director, a recreation worker,
described two experiences which illustrate the role
recreation can play in the transition to civilian life.
One was the experience of two marines who had
spent eighteen months in the Pacific. \Vhen asked
if they would care to dance they replied, “No, we
haven’t seen an American girl for eighteen months
and wouldn’t know how to act. We would just
like to watch.” They were given front row seats
near the orchestra. A little later they approached
the director again and said, “Do you mind if we
change our minds ?” Two grand hostesses were
secured and away the two went to dance. At the
end of the evening these two marines sought out
the director to thank her for a fine evening. They
said, “If the rest of the pe0ple‘ and cities back
home are as nice as you’ve been tonight, then the
eighteen months in the jungles have been worth
while.”

In the same evening a soldier with an artificial
leg appeared. He was jovial and friendly, and
soon found a seat in the dance hall. There he sat,
listening and talking all evening. At the end of the
dance when the orchestra had left he approached
the director and asked her if she would mind
dancing with him to the tune of the j uke box. He
said, “I don’t know if this leg will go in the direc-
tion I want it to go.” They danced and she said,
“He was as good a jitterbug as ever.” As he left
he said, “I’m O.K. now, I know it will do and I
can ask anyone to dance with me.” One would
not belittle the self-confidence that was restored in

"It is of the greatest importance that the
returned soldier should be assimilated into
the social structure, and that he should be
accepted by civilians, but no more impor-
tant than that civilians should prove accept-
able to the soldier. The most damaging thing
that could happen to the returned soldier
and to the community
would be for him to find himself not wanted
and not regarded as a valuable asset to the
community."—Major-General- George B.
Chisholm, Director of Medical Services
for the Canadian Army, in an address
before the American Psychiatric Association.

to which he returns

 

that soldier through the
medium of the dance.

The Contribution of
Recreation

As we now look at the
contribution of recreation in
the postwar era what are
some of the implications of
the war experiences for us
as we work within our pres-
ent framework? F irst—that
we unapologetically offer rec-
reation activities to all of
the members of our com-
munities for the sheer joy of fun, relaxation, exer-
cise, and the opportunity to cut loose with an
abandon in some activity in which they are com-
pletely absorbed. This is needed today as never
before in the modern strain of noise and Speed,
the boredom and monotony of routine, and the
worry and uncertainty of the complex world in
which we live.

Second—that we find new ways of encouraging
group experience in all of our activities. \Ve must
find more equivalents of the gang, the team, and
the club. Mental hygienists tell us that individ-
uals must have a sense of belonging to and being
important in some social group if they are to have
any sense of worth at all. Army Air Force psychia-
trists, when asked what community agencies should
do to get ready for the returned airmen said,
“Develop with civilians the equivalent of bomber
and tank groups of nine to ten men that have
meant so much to these men. They have worked,
slept, eaten, and played together. They know the
meaning and importance of a small group. They
will want to continue this kind of a group after the
war.”

You see, this gives support to what we already
know about group experience as a major means of
achieving personality, social character, and good
citizenship. We know from reliable experiments
that the right management of groups will result in
these various types of outcomes to a larger extent.
If we, as educators, took this seriously, it would
mean that we would assume the responsibility for
the reorganization of groups in size, in nature, in
program, and in leadership.

Third—that we as individual citizens should
now contribute our interests, our hopes, and our
insight to committees of our cities, many of them
now engaged in postwar planning. From a govern—

RECREATION

WHAT ABOUT OUR RETURNING SERVICEMEN? 33

ment bulletin an recreation, I quote the following:

“Cities busy at the moment filling wartime pri—
orities are thinking of peacetime play and recrea-
tion. Planning, in fact, ranges from $59,000,000
for parks and playgrounds that the Chicago City
Plan Commission has included in its list of post—
war public works to the $5 that a W'inooski, Ver-
mont, soldier sent home to start a swimming pool
fund for his home town."

There is considerable evidence that many towns
are now planning to build living war memorials to
their soldier and sailor dead and these memorials
will be in the form of new recreation facilities.
Individuals and communities are now ready as
never before to consider programs of recreation for
all members of the community.

I have mentioned some of the opportunities now
before us within our present role as educators in
public education. However, there are some tasks
ahead of us in this job of enriching .the life of
everyone in our communities. To these everyone
of us must need give his cooperative attention, his
best insight, and an unlimited amount of time and
energy. Briefly, here are what seem to me some
of the tasks ahead of us in the field of recreation:

(I) Plans "with" instead of "for." we need to
formulate plans for protecting the ex-serviceman
from his many well-intentioned friends. Our job
is to adjust and change communities to provide an
opportunity for a worthy, constructive, and crea—
tive expression of the abili—
ties, energies, hopes and
ideals of millions of veter-
ans; others will want to do
for him, we will do it with
him.

(2)A concern for the
adolescent youth war work-
ers. They must be pre-
pared for disillusionment
in the matter of wages as
their older brothers come
back home, but, more im—
portant, they can no longer
be treated as adolescents
because they have been
adults economically, if not
emotionally or socially.

(3) Minorities. Cultural
and racial groups. Inequali-
ties of services to these
groups have been over—

APRIL 1945

come during the war. We need to face this in the
postwar period.

(4) Young adults. \Vho is going to capture the
young married pe0ple, carried into marriage on
the wave of war, in a program of recreation and
education for family life? As coeducational activity
is the order of the day in wartime, these adults
will be unwilling to revert to the “blessedness” of
single-sex activities simply because community
agencies are organized that way. The formidable
opponents of biology and psychology will both be
allies of the young adults.

(5) Industrial workers. There is an upsurge of
recreation among some of these groups; the new
interest of organized labor, the FSA, the FPHA,
the USO, symbolized the new place of industry in
the social welfare group.

(6) The 10- to I7-year-olds. This group is likely
to be the forgotten one in this war period. Other
demands have prevented us from giving this group
the attention it deserves. You in public school
education may need to be the champions of this
group.

(7) People in small towns and rural communities.
Thousands of communities have recently had their

It will take knowledge and resourcefulness
to meet the needs of the men in hospitals

 

Red C r03: Photo

34 WHAT ABOUT OUR RETURNING SERVICEMEN?

hrst contact with organized recreation and social
welfare services. The plans for the military or war
production guests have opened the eyes of com-
munities to what can and should be done for their

own people.

(8) The need of adults. Today, amid the strain,
stress, and tension of our present-day way of
living, there is greatly increased need for a com—
munity program of recreation that will permit
adults, as well as our youth, to achieve relaxation
and release through activities to which they can
give themselves with “abandon.”

(9) Migrant people. Whether they stay in their
new-found homes or retreat backward, they will
continue to constitute a heavy demand on ener—

getic and wise planning.

A Challenge to All of Us

You men and women are
in a unique position to help

"On the crest of a wave of patriotic fervor
‘early in the war. many organizations combin-

The Khaki and Blue Caravan

By LLOYD A. ROCHFORD

” E HAVE presented shows on the dock when

large hospital ships were unloading casual-
ties; we have entertained on the deck for service-
men already loaded onto large tr00p transports;
we have gone aboard Navy ships just back from
many months of combat and back in the States for
the first time, and we have entertained in hospital
wards and in private rooms for the more seriously
wounded.”

Thus Peggy Finley describes some of the service
rendered in the past year by the Khaki and Blue
Caravan, the name which
a group of volunteer enter-
tainers enrolled by the
Recreation Division of the
Citizens’ Service Corps of

solve these problems in
your community. For some,
a partial solution will be
found in schools and adult
camps, in community cen-
ters in your school build-
ings, in sports competition
or new opportunities in
hobbies, and in additional
social events; for others,

ing much volunteer talent devoted their time
to the entertainment of service personnel in
cities throughout the nation. . . . Today in Long
Beach much of the effort is directed toward
brightening the lives of sick and iniured men
in Army and Navy hospitals' and this is a plea
to other communities to take a new interest.
Valuable as the effort undoubtedly was when it
was directed toward the men in camps and soon
to go overseas, this contribution to the morale
of men who have sacrificed health and limbs and

sight is sacred in its purpose and divine-like in

Long Beach, California, is
now well known over a
wide area. Peggy is secre-
tary of the Recreation Di-
vision and is an employee
of the Long Beach Recre-
ation Commission which,
at the time of organization
of civilian defense in this
coast city, was designated

in more adequate recrea-
tion opportunities through
new facilities.

The vastness of the job of reconstruction, as-
similation, movement, and adjustment of individ-
uals in the postwar world will offer each of us the
opportunity of using our best professional talents,
insights, and abilities for the achievement in our
community members of their highest hopes, desires
and aspirations. We can decide if this will happen
in our cities and‘ towns. If we assume our rightful
and expected role as leaders in recreation, using
recreation activities for the sake of all people, we
can feel as the Chinese poet Wang Wei felt when
he was asked what he liked best in life. He said:

“I am old. Nothing interests me now. More-
over, I am not very intelligent and my ideas have
never traveled further than my feet. I know only
my first, to which I always come back. You ask
me, what is the supreme happiness here below. It
is listening to the song of a little boy as he goes
down the road after having asked me the way.”

its power to save from bitterness and despair.‘I

 

to head the emergency
recreation work. This pur-
pose was made effective by
the appointment of Dr. Frank Harnett, Assistant
Director of Municipal Recreation, as chairman,
with Duane George, Chief Play Director and
Manager of the Municipal Service Men’s Club for
the Commission as alternate. I

In addition to the unique opportunity to carry
recreation pr0grams on board Uncle Sam’s war-
ships and docks, made possible by very close co—
operation with the Welfare and Special Activities
Office of. the Naval Operating Base in this area,
the Khaki and Blue Caravan has, as far as possi-
ble, filled requests from all Army and Navy hos—
pitals within driving distance of this city. Shows
have also been given regularly at bases and camps
near-by, and on regular weekly schedules at down-
town centers for servicemen. As much time as
possible, when it does not interfere with shows for

' (Continued on page 48)

RECREATION

Arts and Crafts Shop
for Children ‘

UTLAND, VERMONT, a commu—
R nity of about 17,000, provides

a municipal swimming pool and playgrounds
for summer recreation. Many different organiza—
tions sponsor other activities during the year.

In the summer of 1943 I visited a playground
in a near-by community and saw, in successful
operation, an arts and crafts sh0p for children. I
was greatly interested in this project and con-
ceived the idea that this might furnish a great op-
portunity for Rutland’s seven parent-teacher as-
sociations.

The Abraham Lincoln Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion, which has nearly 200 members, has always
donated $50 each year to some project worthy of
parent-teacher interest. When the plan for an arts
and crafts sh0p for Rutland’s children was brought
before this association, it voted to use this year’s
$50 as a nucleus for a fund to Operate a sh0p
during the summer.

Plans were submitted to the mayor and the
Board of Aldermen covering the method of oper—
ating and financing the sh0p, the needed person—
nel, and the kinds of articles to be made. The city
was asked to provide a place for the Shop and
money to pay the personnel. The P.T.A. agreed
to raise $500 for tools and materials.

Every parent-teacher association in the city was
asked to c00perate in raising the funds. About
twenty other organizations gave donations. A
community hall and a magic show were held. and
$538 was raised.
The city con-
tributed an ad-
ditional $300.

The shop was
in operation for
eight weeks
during the sum-
mer of 1944.
Any child over
six was wel-
come. Children
came at any
time that was
convenient for

By ROMA W. JUDKINS

Youngsters like these learn crafts at Rutland

 

the shop was open. Various crafts
were taught, and the children
themselves selected the articles they wished to con—
struct. The cost to each child was very little—the
price of the materials plus a few cents to help
finance the shop. A special fund was provided for
children who could not afford to pay even this
small amount. Several children paid for their
projects by helping in the shop.

Articles were made of various materials—wood,
felt, plastic, leather, and so on. They included
doorstops, lawn figures, book ends, bookshelves,
hobbyhorses, children’s hall trees, shoe racks,
breadboards, wood and plastic jewelry, tea tiles,
felt pocketbooks, belts and suspenders, picture
frames, stuffed toys, and leather work.

The attendance ranged from twenty to ninety a
session, with two sessions a day. The total regis-
tration was 560. The children ranged in age from
six to sixteen years. Complete records were kept
of each child’s attendance and of the work he had
completed, including the cost to him. The total
number of articles made was 1,400.

During the last week the shop was in operation,
an exhibit of the children’s work was held, and
more than 500 articles were displayed. Many chil-
dren also displayed their work at the Rutland
Fair. One boy has begun to plan his own shop.

Sixty children were registered as visitors from
other towns. Several of then; went home so en—
thusiastic about the project that definite requests
for information
an d h elp in
starting similar
3 h o p s s o o n
came from par-
ent—teacher
groups in these
towns. No day
passed without
the appearance
of several visit-
ors in the shop.

The children
of Rutland are
so enthusiastic

them (luring the (Continued on
hours in which page 53)
APRIL 1945 DRURY COLLEGE LIBRARY 35

Springfield, Missouri

Everything for the Boys—and the Girls!

“Great Lakes” has be-

come a phrase to con-
jure with, for from the
confines of the Great Lakes
Naval Training Center has
come a never-ending
stream of boys in blue.
They are stouthearted men,
these lads about to journey
forth to the far corners of
the earth. They are young,
eager, intelligent, trained
in some specialty of sea-
n1anship. Their months at
Great Lakes have been
carefully planned. They have been full months,
not easy, certainly not leisurely. But there have
been hours leisure—filled with recreation planned to
meet the needs and the tastes of all sorts and con-
ditions of men—and of women, for the WAVES
have their complement of ladies in blue at the
Center.

Time is planned every day for each person at
the station to take some part in a varied program.
Understanding leadership, the finest equipment,
recreation centers modern and complete in every
detail are available to all—to Service School Com-
mand, WAVES, Out Going Units (men about to
ship out for sea duty and
battle areas), the Navy Hos-
pital, Ship’s Company, Staff
Marines, Recruit Training
Command.

IN THE LAST three years

At the Tenth Annual Recreation Conference
of the Chicago Recreation Commission. the
U. S. Naval Training Center at Great Lakes
presented an exhibit of its recreational ser-
vices tor the men and women in training.

The exhibit included eight posters showing
general and specific phases of the program
for the four Commands at the CenterI twenty-
tive enlarged pictures typical of the various
activities ot'lieredI and a folder of concise in-
formation relative to the philosophy, facilitiesI
program, personnel. proceduresI and results.
The poster and pictures told their story in a
simple but ettective manner and aroused a
great deal of interest.

For the WAVES at the Center there are

concertsl music appreciation hoursl sketch-
ingI dancingI moviesl and such athletic games
and sports as golf, ping-pong, volley ball.
bowlingI swimming and horseback riding

The centers are planned
on three levels. “Below
Deck” are swimming pool,
bowling lanes, showers,
dressing rooms, confer-
ence rooms. “Main Deck”
houses gymnasium, chap-
lain’s office, canteen, photo
shop, soda bar, barber shop,
post office, telephone cen-
ter, rehearsal rooms, gear
locker, physical training
and recreation ofhce. On
the “Upper Deck” are
game rooms, reading
rooms, lounge, library,
gear locker, and writing room.

In all this you can—if you are in the Navy—
take your pick of leisure-time activities. You can
test your skill with shooting gallery gadgets. You
can “play in the band”—0r listen to the “name”
bands that come periodically to entertain the Cen-
ter’s forces. You can make a recording of your
voice or a craft article for the family. You can
paint a picture or listen to the best recordings (of
Bach or'boogie woogie), or go to the movies or
help put on a show, or read or play any of the
many kinds of ball or other sporting games. Or
you can bowl or box, or just loaf and indulge in
that great national pastime
called in Navy parlance
“shooting the breeze.”

In charge of this wide-
range program is Lieut.

 

36

RECREATION.

l

EVERYTHING FOR THE BOYS-—-AND THE GIRLS!

37

 

IN THE

RECRUIT TRAINING

C OM MAND
ecrea {[012 10174/[— wen/@693!

MUSIC IN ALL FORMS 0
VARIETY SHOWS °
TABLEand CARD GAMES °
QUIZ CONTESTS '

GRADUATION PARTIES
TOURNAMENTS
ARTS AND CRAFTS
SPECIAL HOLIDAY PROGRAMS

RELAXATION THRU PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
JUST RESTIN’ AND SHOOTIN’ THE BREEZE

.7718 frainin ofrecruils or milifar icienc
is {he princigml 5115i 12 as; of Greatyz‘egzey, y

 

Comdr. Alden W. Thompson, USNR, with his
staff of I 33 workers—twenty-{ive Of whom devote
their entire time to the recreation program. It is
their job to provide a well-rounded recreation pro—

APRIL 1945

(Continued on page 51)

gram for the men and women under their charge.
For hospitalized patients at Great Lakes there is
a special program with emphasis on rehabilitation.

This Can Be America

Crow Indian names up on the

lovely reservation of rolling hills and waving
buffalo grass in Southern Montana, and among
them was a name I have never forgotten. It was
“Mary Sits with the Stars.”

No one knows just how the American Indians
receive their names. One theory is that a child is
named after something the mother has seen just
before its birth, or because of something the mother
has been doing. If this theory is correct, then the
mother of Mary was a
thoughtful woman; a
woman who, as we shall
see, “considered.”

One can imagine her,
the child big within her,
sitting on starlit nights
on the edge of some
slope, endless miles of
silver silence stretching
away from her, her
mind busy with plans
for the life so recently
created; busy, as are the
minds of millions of
dreaming American
women now, young and
old, red, white, black or
yellow, whose sons are
scattered to the four
corners of the globe or
whose sons are about to
be born.

I REMEMBER once seeing a list of

Next to our breath
and the flowing of the
blood in our veins, words are the closest things to
us we have. And like our breath and the flowing
of our blood, they are with us always. Their exact
meaning is of grave and terrible importance. Be-
tween each man and woman and both the inner
and the outer world is a thin transparent sheet of
glass, and this glass is language. If the window is
dirty or scratched through ignorance, or careless-
ness, or misuse, what the man and woman see,
looking out, is obscure and distorted, and what
light comes in is misty and uncertain. For. lan-
guage, the desire to communicate not only the
barest needs but the deepest thoughts, with'all the

38

By STRUTHERS BURT

"Mary sits with the stars"

 

agony of wishing to be understood,
is what, more than anything else,
distinguishes the human race from other species,
and is the fundamental mystery upon which can
best be based belief in some sort of immortality.

No man is wiser than his words, although this
does not mean that a large vocabulary necessarily
implies wisdom. Many simple men speak know-
ingly within their limits. Many so-called educated
men open their voluble lips only toispeak folly.

The point is to know what you are saying, and
what the words you use
mean, for words are as
dangerous as lightning,
and as reverberating as
thunder. And, like rain
on a pond, words move
in ever-widening circles.
That is why one of the
most useful and instruc-
tive things a man can
do, whenever he gets
the chance, is to look
up derivations. What do
the words he uses actu-
ally mean? Why were
they first invented?
What pressing human
need did they first ful-
till?

For each word in the

beginning was an inven- .

tion, and a slow and

- painful one at that. And
each word in the begin-
ning had its own sepa-
rate shade of difference, accurate and subtle. In all
language there is no such thing as a perfect syno-
nym. Only carelessness makes us think otherwise.
And it is wonderfully exciting—this game of
derivations. Far more exciting and useful than
crossword puzzles or anagrams. Try it. All you
need is a dictionary. Also, it is surprising and
amusing. Constantly you will catch your friends
using words, ponderously and portentously, but
ignorantly, the real meaning of which makes what
is being said absurd. But above all, if you play
this game, you will achieve a respect for your dis-

1’ C ontirmed on page 46)
RECREATJON

I
Print by 095199 Harman

Airports as Recreation Areas?

HE AIRPORT, as Mr. Wil-

liam A. M. Burden points

out in the September is—
sue of RECREATION, is “a nat-
ural attraction and benter of
interest.” Because airports
have a wide appeal and be-
cause, like parks, they require
large areas, a number of indi-
viduals, especially those con-
cerned with the promotion of
aviation, are stressing the de-
sirability of developing recreation facilities in con-
nection with airports. -

Any suggestion that airports should be made
more attractive and park-like in appearance merits
wholehearted approval and support. The preposal
that the airports be deve10ped as a part of the city’s
recreation system, however, raises a number of
questions as to the advisability of deve10ping areas
for such dual use.

The needs of three groups should be taken into
account in considering airport recreation facilities.
They are the air-traveling public, visitors to the
airport, and the pe0ple who live in the immediate
neighborhood or general vicinity. Any compre—
hensive plan for recreation development in con-
nection with airports must be based on a study of
the needs and the interests of these three groups.

Recreation for Air Trav‘elers and the
Visiting Public

Recreation facilities will undoubtedly be in de-
mand at the major airports that serve as transfer
points, to serve the people who must wait between
planes. Just as motion picture theaters have been
installed in railroad terminals, so they will prob-
ably have a place at the major airport terminals.
In addition, game rooms, reading rooms, card
rooms, dining facilities, and rooms for radio broad-
casts are likely to prove popular. Possiblyiforms
.of mild outdoor sports that can be played in travel-
ing clothes, that require little time and Space, and
that can be enjoyed by one, two, or a few players
will also be provided. Among such games are
sllutiieboard, lawn bowling, croquet and horse-
shoes.

What about recreation facilities for airport
visitors? Because some visitors will spendtime at

APRIL 1945

One of our readers, noting the article
in the September issue of RECREATION
on the use of airports for recreation, has
asked permission to tell why he believes
that airports are not suitable locations
for recreation facilities intended to serve
the people of the neighborhood or the
community at large.

We shall be glad to give a hearing to
anyone else with opinions on the subject.

the airport waiting for planes,
the same types of facilities
that were suggested for the
traveling public will also be
suitable. Most airport visitors,
however, are attracted pri—
marily because of their inter-
est in aircraft. They want to
watch the planes coming in,
departing, or on the ground.
Airport visitors are not likely
to make extensive use of rec-
creation facilities or to participate in recreation
activities that distract their attention from the
major object of their visit. Any use of recreation
facilities by airport visitors, therefore, will prob—
ably be incidental.

The provision of recreation facilities for the use
of the traveling public and visitors to the airport
is a matter primarily of concern to airport officials.
Such facilities will be justified to the extent that
they prove popular. It is only when planners sug-
gest that airports are a suitable location for recrea-
tion facilities designed to serve the people of the
neighborhood or larger community that a protest
is in order.

What About Neighborhood Use?

Among the recreation areas listed by Mr. Bur—
den as suitable for airports are playgrounds, foot-
ball and baseball fields, tennis courts and swimming
pools. He does not specify, as other advocates of
recreation facilities at airports have done, that
these facilities should be provided for neighbor-
hood or community use. However, since it is dif-
flClIlt to believe that air travelers or airport visitors
will make extensive use of them, presumably
facilities of this type are intended chiefly for the
use of nearby residential neighborhoods.

One of the essential principles in neighborhood
and community planning is that the playground or
playfield should be as near as possible to the center
of the neighborhood or district it is intended to
serve. The location of such recreation areas at an
airport violates this principle. It automatically
curtails their effectiveness because the airport is a
barrier which makes access to the recreation area
difficult for many persons who would otherwise be

{ C antin-ued on page 50)
39

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature—Grams

NIMAL Calendar. A pet for every riionth.
American Humane Association, I 55 Wash-
ington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. 10 cents.

Bird Census at Christmas has been going on an-
nually for about thirty years. A careful estimate
of kinds and number of birds is made by Scouts,
nature clubs, university ornithologists, and ama—
teurs. Sponsored by the National Audubon So-
ciety which publishes the results.

Carver. “George Carver: Boy Scientist of
America,” by Augusta Stevenson. Bobbs-Merrill
Co. 198 pp. $1.50.

Eucalyptus Tree. The largest eucalyptus tree in
California, planted in 1868
near the Coyote River,
Santa Clara County, is nine
feet in diameter.

Fish. Bolivia has com—
pleted a national fish hatth—
ery and hopes to be able
soon to stock its lakes and
thus become independent of
fish importation.

Florida. “That Vanishing
Eden, a Naturalist’s Florida,” by Thomas Barbour.
Little, Brown and Co. 250 pp. Illust. $3.00..

Forestry. “Forestry on Private Lands in the
United States,” by Clarence F. Korstian. Duke
University. 234 pp. Illus. $1.50 cloth, $1.00 paper.

Honeybee. “The Honeybee, Source of the
W'orld’s Most Famous Food,” by Frank C. Pellett.
F. C. Brooks. 16 pp. Illus. 10 cents.

Meteorology. “Cloud and Weather Atlas,” by
Hugh Duncan Grant. Coward-McCann. 294 pp.
Illus. $7.50. The former superintendent of the
Meteorological Service of the British Navy has
translated “into everyday language the all-impor-
tant story of clouds—their part in analysis of the
elements, and in forecasting the continual changes
in the drama of the weather.”

Nature Photography. “Hobbies” published by
the Buffalo Museum of Scienée announces the
Seventh International Salon of Nature Photogra-
phy, May 16 to June 12, 1945. The exhibit classes

40

"It is not a subiect for debate that all of
the youngsters from Hell's Kitchen, the
Capone neighborhood, and the 'Grapes of
Wrath' country need a touch of nature and

the out of doors. All can gain much under
competent guidance—guidance not to regi-

ment but to unfold individual capacities and

the truths which nature tells."—Harry E.
Curtis in Planning and Civic Comment.

are: Mammals, Birds, Plant Life, 'Scenery, Miscel-
laneous, Color. The last day for receiving prints
is May 13. Write the Museum for details.

Nature Recreation vs. Nature Study. The first
may be anywhere. The second is more often in a
formal school room. Nature recreation brings out
the spirit that is within. It follows the natural law
of growth. Exposing a person to nature is like
exposing a photographic film to light. Exposure,
development, a creative print (idea) are natural
steps. They are quite different from the benevolent
pouring in process of the “letter that killeth.”
Nature recreation is an inside-outside process.
‘Nature study is the outer
inner idea.

Plants. “Aquatic Plants
of the U.S.A.,” by W. C.
Muenscher. Cornstock. Line
cuts and maps. $5.00.

Plants, Geography.“ Foun-
dations of Plant Geogra—
phy,” by Stanley A. Cain.
Harper and Brothers. 556
pp. Illus. $5.00.

Shells. Adlai B..Wheel, Director of Boys Clubs,
Syracuse Y. M. C.A., uses shells as awards for
meritorius work. The boys mount the shells in
shallow cardboard boxes. .-

Shells. “Shell Hobbyists,” by Walter F. Webb.
Published by the author, 202 Westminster Road,
Rochester 7, N. Y. $2.50. A handbook with 1,000
illustrations of sea shells from the Pacific and 500
illustrations of U. S. marine shells. Collecting and
mounting shells has been the most p0pular leisure—
time sport of our boys in the Pacific. This 1945
book will be welcomed by those who are interested
in this fascinating hobby.

“Snowshoe Country,” by Florence and Francis
Jacques. University of Minnesota Press. $3.00.

Universe. “The Universe Around Us,” by James
Jeans. Macmillan Co. 289 pp. Illus. $3.75. A
scientific book for lay readers, first published some
years ago. It has been rewritten to include recent
advances. 

RECREATION

Your Children in Wartime

“QUESTIONS and Answers
Concerning Your Children in
Wartime” is the title of an-at-
tractivcly illustrated folder
printed and distributed by the Child Care, De-
velopment and Protection Committee of the Ithaca-
Tompkins County War Council, with the coopera-
tion of the Ithaca, New York, Board of Education.

The folder tells of the activities of all the vari-
ous agencies concerned with the welfare of the
children of Ithaca, including the Recreation De-
partment of the Public Schools and “La Cabana,”
a club for teen-age youngsters established under
the direction of the Ithaca Civic Youth Council
with the active assistance of several community

agencies.

W'IIEN the day scheduled
for the wading pool car-
nival in Bell Park, Chi—
cago, turned out to be the
coldest day of the summer, many of the novelty
water games and races had to-be changed to land
maneuvers. One of the planned events, however,
was held—a fishing race for children from four to
six years of age. Cardboard fish made in the art
craft classes were fastened to poles and lines, all
of which were the same length. Instead of being
in the water with their “trout,” the fishermen
stood on the edge of the pier and reeled in their
catch. The first one to finish was awarded a prize.
Another novelty race had to do with sailboats
made of paper ice cream sundae dishes masted
with paper napkin sails in various colors. The chil-
dren blew their crafts across the pool. There was,
too, a race for boats constructed in the boys’ craft
classes. The submarine chase appealed to the older
boys and girls, and a bubble blow contest with
paper cups and straws and soap powder provided
much merriment. " ’ '

APRIL 1945

A Substitute for
Fishing

 

Courtesy Ithaca, N. Y., Board of Educatiovs

A FEW BLOCKS from the
business district of Santa
Barbara, California, at
one of the city's parks there arrived last summer a
team of mules and a big yellow wagon. The mules,
“Jack” and “Monk,” loaned to the Park and Rec-
reation Departments by the Los Padres National
Forest, remained as summer guests of the children.

Plans for Camp Conestoga, as this feature of
the park’s summer program was called, included
overnight excursions to some spot in the sur-
rounding area of the city. On Tuesday evenings
the children cooked dinner at the camp in the bar—
becue pits and after dinner enjoyed a program of
songs and storytelling around the campfire.

The program at Camp Conestoga, sponsored by
the city’s Recreation Department, was open to all
children without charge.

An In-Town Camp

JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.,
has finally brought to com—
pletion a most ambitious
project on which the club embarked seven years
ago —— a summer playground with all the latest
equipment. .

The Jefferson City Lions began modestly in
1937 with a little playground at Park School. Be-
fore the end of that first summer the spot became
so popular that three others were opened. The
next year, with funds from the WPA to help, the
club opened still other grounds.

Then the Lions undertook to carry on the pro-
gram alone, but after a year they began coopera-
tion with the city’s park board. Last spring these
two organizations made such a success of the plan
that 30,135. students attended the various centers.

41

.For Seven Years

42 WORLD AT PLAY

RECREATION LEADERS!

Professionally qualified leaders are needed to
fill positions of crucial importance

Prepare to fill these positions through

Classes

Specializing in the use of recreation to help
mdiwduals and groups meet personal and social
problems in the war and postwar periods

and

Field Instruction in Group Work in

Youth Serving Organizations

Recreation Centers

Settlements

Housing Projects

Child Guidance Centers

Hospitals, Convalescent Camps and Homes
Intercultural—Interracial Projects

COLLEGE GRADUATES

apply
School of Applied Social Sciences

University of Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh l3. Pa.

Limited number of Fellowships available

Mothers Entertain Children—The Cabrillo
Playground Mothers’ Club of San Francisco last
year gave a vacation picnic in Golden Gate Park
for the children of the playground. The mothers
have included among their activities an interest in
junior teen-age dances, and have contributed
money to help pay for records and refreshments.

Mother-Daughter; Father-Son—The Bureau
of Recreation of Dayton, Ohio, is active in pro-
moting mother-daughter and father-son programs
as one of the most important special events of the
summer playground. Usually the parents and chil—
dren engage in friendly rivalry in such games as
volley ball, horseshoes and softball, and there are
picnic lunches, stunts, and songs.

He Worked for Playgrounds !——The man be—
hind the week-end announcement of three new

playgrounds for northeast Washington, D. C., has
been revealed as a ten—year-old major of an area-
wide organization, the Victory'Eagles.

 

Joe conducted a summer drive for the play-
grounds which took him from Vice—President Wal—
lace to the District Commissioners, and involved
an appearance before the House District Commit-
tee. The campaign began when school closed in
June and ended when Major General U. S. Grant
III of the National Capital Park and Planning
Commission wrote Joe that funds had been allotted
for three playgrounds, one within walking distance
of Joe’s home.

Pan-American Day—In 1945 Pan-American
Day takes on added significance coming as it does
between the conferences at Mexico City and San
Franc15co. The Governing Board of the Pan
American Union has set aside April 14th as the
day for special consideration of the theme: “The
Peoples of America, Independent, Interdependent,
Neighbors in a World of Neighbors.” Material
may be secured from the Pan American Union,

Washington, D. C.

No National Folk Festival in 1945—— The
Evening Bulletin Folk Festival Association of
Philadelphia announces lwith regret that because of
the request of the Office of Defense Transporta—
tion for further limitation of travel the National
Folk Festival will not be held in May as planned.

Community groups interested in local festivals,
which it is hoped will be promoted this year on an
extensive scale, will welcome the announcement
that the Folk Festival Handbook is now ready
for distribution. This is a very practical and at-
tractive manual which recreation workers will find
exceedingly helpful. (See review on page 56.) The
H andbook may be secured from the Evening Bul-
letin Folk Festival Association, Bulletin Building,
Philadelphia 7, Pennsylvania. Price 50 cents.

Their “Bit” is a Large Contribution—Service-
men in hospitals and on trains en route to hOSpi-
tals in October found on their trays a Halloween
pumpkin favor, the eyes, nose, and tongue of
which could be manipulated by a handle backed by
a stick of gum. Young pe0ple of the Junior Red
Cross, teen-age centers, playgrounds, schools of
San Francisco had spent many hours making 1,000
favors. Other gifts were ready for Thanksgiving
and Christmas. Other children in the city have
stuffed animals to go overseas and for children of
servicemen, knitted afghans, made Christmas tree
decorations, crossword puzzles with art designs,
joke books,_and note pads for servicemen.

RECREATION

      
   

H & B 's fwo ¥amous annuals are oH
“we press and waifing for delivery;
’ro you. A ¥ree supply of Famous'

Slugger Yearbooks are yours for H19 1
asking, and enough OHicial Spoall
. ‘ 1

Rule Books {on dishibu’rion +o your

foams; Wri’re us abouf yourynee’ds.

‘ a ’ 4

l-IILLERICH a. angosav CPA,mc.. LOUISVILLE; KY. '

APRIL 1945 43

They'll Want
Diamond Shoes!

FELLOWS who learned to enjoy the game

of horseshoes in army camps and navy
bases, with Diamond Pitching Shoes, will

call for Diamond Shoes when they get home.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Oflicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts

mam, . D CALK
 Butt... co.

46|0 Grand Ave., Duluth, Minn.

W
1.

*

 

1944 Report—During 1944 New York’s parks,
playgrounds, and beaches were not idle. A hun-
dred sixteen million visitors taxed the war—re-
duced personnel of 491 year-round recreation cen—
ters. Sports and contests, dancing, swimming,
handcrafts, drama, music programs have helped
many people spend their hours of leisure with
pleasure and profit.

Recreation Goes to College
( Continued from page 14)

Girl Scouts, held just outside the Tufts varsity
football field and on the “Old Campus.” Did the
Girl Scouts need benches? Mr. Friis unearthed
old classroom benches. Dining tables? No, he
didn’t have any. But old banquet tables, with a
coat of paint would do very nicely. Lockers? Mr.
F riis had a number of booths used during the foot-
ball season by ticket sellers, which could be con—
verted into suitable storage closets.

Up on the Old Campus 3. flat grassy surface
which once served as a baseball diamond, the sec-

 

RECREATION GOES TO COLLEGE

0nd part of the program was carried out. Here an
average of from 250 to 300 youngsters, under
twelve, participated in varied playground activi-
ties. They played within the shadows of Braker
Hall, a dormitory housing a substantial number
of Tufts’ 1,000 Navy V -12 trainees. The facilities
for this program—~swings, sandboxes, a bubbler
and a sprinkler—were provided by the City of
Somerville. ' ’

“This section,” Mr. Friis recounted, “was our
big worry. \Ve knew that the Girl Scouts would

‘ be going about their program in typical, Girl

Scout manner. But 250 youngsters 011 a hot sum—-
mer day—and within a stone’s throw of dormi-
tories where our future Navy officers were boning
away on their hooks—well, we honestly had our
fingers crossed. But it worked out fine. Somer—
ville’s supervisors did a fine job. There wasn’t a
single complaint, either from the boys or the
faculty, about the kids’ behavior.”

You needn’t wonder if Tufts would extend to
its little neighbors the college facilities and play
areas again this summer. It already has, thanks to
Mr. Friis, whose minions, under his direction,
recently roped off a special section around the
sloping campus to enable neighborhood youngsters
to coast in safety. He has even extended invitations
to some of them to use the newly made outdoor
skating rink.

What does the Tufts-Somerville experience
prove? Simply this—that everywhere throughout
the land there are colleges and universities and
private schools that have fine playing fields—fields
that would make ideal recreation centers for chil-
dren in the neighborhood. It proves, too, that
communities can reap the benefits of these ex-
pensively groomed college areas if they would ask
for permission to use them and if they are ready
to assume their share of responsibility.

Colleges are, in the long run, communal insti-
tutions. The degree to which they become com-
munity institutions rests not alone with the college
or university officials but with the community
itself. Rest assured that the colleges will meet
you more than half way. If they should, per-
chance, turn you down, don’t bear any ill will.
Their refusal to grant you playing space would in
most cases be well founded. But don’t give up
trying. The results are worth the effort. Few city
playgrounds are better kept than America’s
campuses. - *-

RECREATION

 
  

  
       
   

GULF
SANl-SOIL-SET ‘

Controls DUST .

Quickly and effectively!

ixbibition drill at South
Iommon, Lowell, Mass.
)ust controlled effec-
‘vely with Gulf Sani-
- il-Set. Note the clean,
bite appearance of
iforms and shoes.

Why Gulf Sani-Soz'l-Set is
.I be practical answer to 19ch

dust annoyance problems:

§

-.

y Elective—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust annoy-

nce completely immediately after application. No long

I airing periods are necessary before the ground is ready
.or use. The dust allaying effeCt is accomplished by the
crion of the compound in adhering to and weighing
own duSt particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-
'sses valuable germicidal properties.

In] lusting —Because of its extremely low volatility and
nsolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-

ive for long periods. One application per season or year
s usually sufficient.

arst Applied —Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy
nd pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-sprinkling

 

can or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly and
uniformly.

Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set prevents
the growth of grass on areas treated, and minimizes dust
annoyance and expense in near-by houses, stores, and
laundries.

Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
tion about this modern, proven dust allayer.

mail this coupon today

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation,,a copy ofthe booklet, "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modem proveo agent for controlling dust."

Name '

Title
Address

46

THE MANY FRIENDS of Charles «H. English will
wish him well as he retires on May 1, 1945,
from his position of Executive Secretary of the
Philadelphia Playground and Recreation Associa-
tion—-—a position he has held for the last eighteen
years. He writes that this period has been the
happiest of his professional career because of the
cooperation he has received.

“Almost all recreation executives preach recre-
ation, direct recreation programs, and manage to
get little recreation for themselves. Now before it
is too late to enjoy a dream of many years, I am
switching programs, tools, locale—a shift from
recreation leader to pomologist,” is the word he
gives us.

He is retiring to his farm, developed in Ohio as
a hobby. Increasingly he has been longing for the
time when he could establish his home there, with
all the challenges and the interests of a new ad-
venture.

For thirty-five years Charles H. English has
been one of the active leaders in the recreation
field. Many knew him back in the days when he
was in charge of a field house in the Chicago South
Park Recreation System. During the First World
War he was one of the nationalleaders who gave

 

CHARLES H. ENGLISH

Charles H. English

his full strength to the \Var Camp Community
Service program. Later he was in charge of the
recreation program of the public school system of
Chicago. '

For many years Mr. English gave courses in
the National Recreation School, and there was
very general appreciation of the concrete way in
which he shared his experiences in the recreation
movement with all the students. Always he has
emphasized the warme human side of life.

This Can Be America

(Continued from page 38)

taut ancestors, for the men who invented most of
our words, and for the human race to which they
belonged. You will perceive in the human race a
constant, not to be defeated, longing for and belief
in the good and wiseand far-visioned, and an
equally strong contempt for the small and selfish
and self-seeking. To express this belief and this
contempt, our ancestors invented strong and wise
and beautiful words.

And this brings us back to Mary Sits with the
Stars.

\Ve all of us know—his name is legion—the man
who calls himself “a realist,” and who thinks that
“realism” consists in believing the worst, in de-
precating imagination, in obstructing progress, and
in concentrating upon his own interests and the
immediate future. He is a “practical” man; he tells
you 50. Such men know neither their derivations
nor their history, and this can be proved by a small
trick, by the use of two of the commonest of
English. words.

Ask any such man if, granting all his premises,
nonetheless he will not admit that the realistic man,
the practical man, must be one who “considers,”
who figures things out. The only possible answer
is yes. Then ask this “realist” if he knows what
the word “consider” actually means. He’ll be aston-
ished. For “consider” comes from two Latin words,
can and sz'dera, and means “with the stars”; and
the wise men who invented the word meant to
describe that ultimate wisdom which arises only
from occasionally sitting by yourself, and consider-
ing the universe, and birth, and death, and the
glory and the pity of yourself and of all men, your
brothers, everywhere.

“Hitch your wagon to a star,” said America’s
wisest philosopher; and he might have added,

“Make your thinking universal,” for strange things

RECREATION

THREE TO FIFTY 47

happen to you if, occasionally, “you sit with the
stars,” if you make a habit of “considering.” Each
time you do so, if only ever so little, intolerance
drops away from you, and some degree of small-
ness; and a slice of selfishness, and of the cruelty
of self-advantage.

And the other common word not generally un-
derstood is “desire,” which also has to do with the
stars, although the prefix, “de,” is different, and so
means “from the stars "and not “with them.” Here,
then, is a logical sequence, for all action must begin
with a desire, and all action, at least according to
the men who invented words, must be considered.
From the stars, with the stars, is hence the course
of wisdom and the method of thought.

A porch, a rocking chair and "considering" have
had much to do with the wise and tolerant and
humorous and kind American philosophy that has
made us what we are today. And as the world and
this country become more crowded and breathless,
only the fool will forget the stars. o

AND THAT CAN BE AMERICA.

——Reprinted from The Ladies’ Home Journal, February,
1945.

Three to Fifty

(Continued from page 26)

a'bird's nest exhibition. Scouts, especially, took
advantage of the nature lore program to win their
nature lore bodges.

Play Day

As a summing up and as a living report to the
community, the season closed with a play day. The
children demonstrated some of the skills they had
learned to parents and friends. Highlight of play
day was the dance-music-dramatic program when
the youngsters reaped the fruits of their summer
“labors” in the approbation of the audience.

No, there was nothing small about Mt. Leba-
non’s .1944 playground program. The enthusiasm
and the hard work of that staff culled from here
and there brought joy and satisfaction to the com-
munity’s peOple of all ages. For not only did par—
ents and adult friends participate as spectators at
play day, many of them were frequently at the
playgrounds, taking part with their children in the
innumerable activities available to them, learning
to play as their children were learning—ereatively
and joyously. The upper and lower age limits of
the program—by actual computation—were three
and fifty.

APRIL 1945

   
  

The most
significant name
in modern
sports equipment

0 The outstanding position of Wilson Sports
Equipment is due to the progressiveness of the
Wilson creative staff and our great Advisory Staff
of sports celebrities.

Today the name “Wilson” signifies the newest
and best in modern sports equipment for modern
play.

After the wars, look to “Wilson” for new

advanced ideas in equipment for America’s
sports. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago,
New York and other leading cities.

113103011

SPORTS EQUIPM ENT

MEMBER: The Atht‘etic Institute, a
nan-prafit Organization dedicated to the
advancement of national physical fitness.

Let’s all baast the “War Memorials That
Live” campaign to commemarate our
war heroes.

a: an...“ Athletic Goods mg. Co.,Jnc.
 Chicago Plant

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

 

48 THE KHAKI AND BLUE CARAVAN

    

Enroll in a Refresher Course in

 

MU NICIPAL RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
As a Means of Keeping Ahead of Your Job

This course is designed to acquaint recreation executives with the administration aspects of
their department and its correlation with orher departments of city government. Special emphasis
is placed on the recreation problem: its program; areas and facilities; leadership; Operation of play-
grounds and recreation buildings; recreation organization; personnel; financial support; records and
reports; evaluating recreation service; and publicity and relationships.

The enrollment fee of $35 will bring you the specially written text, an opportunity to apply
the text material to your own recreation problems, comments of an authority in the field on each

lesson assignment, and a certificate upon satisfactory completion of the work.

One enrollee recently erte, "Trzztbfully I cannot remember any
efjlort on my part which be: paid 01? in dividend: to quickly.”

Send Inquiries to

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION
l3l3 East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois

 

The Khaki and Blue Caravan

(Continued from page 34) '

servicemen, has been given to “far Bond pro—
grams and other patriotic enterprises.

Many new entertainers have registered with the
Caravan in the past months, and the standards of
entertainment remain at a high level. All who
register arc auditioned and must meet certain
standards before they are accepted for actual ap-
pearance with a regular entertainment unit. Dur-
ing 1944, there were 305 entertainment programs
arranged and presented. More than 3,500 individ-
ual entertainers volunteered to make these shows
possible. Many of these people are residents of
Long Beach and others are from near-by cities.

Several factors have appeared to bring about
some change in the nature of the activities carried
on by this recreation group. \Vhere in the begin-
ning there were numerous Army troop camps and
concentrations in this area, these have largely been
withdrawn, with a consequent decrease in demands
for “on camp” entertainment at such military
reservations. At the same time—and this is not
a military secret—all Army and Navy hospitals in
Southern California have become more and more
crowded with the constant return of wounded ser-
vicemen from overseas. In the face of this fact
there is a decrease in the effort being put into the
field of recreation for servicemen in many cities in
this section. Many volunteer' units which were

active in the early part of the war have now dis-
banded, and many cities now have no source of
volunteer entertainment and are unable to assist
the hospitals and camps in their own areas. In the
situation there has been a' constantly greater turn-
ing to the Long Beach entertainment center for
assistance. Requests for llOSpital entertainment
throughout this area have increased many times in
the past six months and will probably become
steadily heavier.

During the Christmas season just passed. the
Recreation Division again served as the coordin-
ating agency for Christmas efforts in behalf of
service peOple in the area. Trees, decorations, in-
dividual gifts for the hospitalized, free gift wrap-
ping, gift shopping services, social recreation
activities where junior hostess groups were in—
volved, and special social recreation activities for
all branches of the service were cleared through
this center, in close cooperation with the American
Red Cross field directors. The Recreation Division
also assists in securing supplies of magazines,
books, games, phonographs, phonograph records,
musical instruments, candy, nuts, cigarettes. and
other items for Navy ships leaving port. These
supplies are secured from member agencies of the
Division and from individuals who contribute to
this cause. At the request of the United Seamen’s
Scrvicc, entertainments have been presented for the
Merchant Marine men at their club in San Pedro.

RECREATION

KENNETH S. CLARK 49

Kenneth S. Clark

N JANUARY 22, 1945, Kenneth S. Clark died
0 at Princeton, N. J., after a long illness. He
was well known to recreation leaders throughout
the country because of his attendance at Recrea—
tion Congress gatherings and because of what he
had done as a member of the staff of the National
Recreation Association and later as a leader in
connection with the National Bureau for the Ad-
vancement of Music, which is now a part of the
Association.

Not only was Kenneth S. Clark completely de-
voted to the community music Field and ready to
give all that he had to it, but he had a very special
quality of enthusiasm and cheerfulness which made
him a very welcome addition to any group.

This Is My Town

(Continued from page 25')

Examples of pottery, weaving, textile painting.
leather work, outdoor sketching,’the war in child
art, were shown to an interested public. Through
all the summer healthy bodies and busy hands
made a contented group of Bernardsville children
on their playgrounds.

Great emphasis is placed on the art and skill to
he taught our veterans to help relieve their tension
from war experiences. This same type of work is
needed for our children especially now that the
effect of war has touched their homes, the vital
core of their existence. Any creative or cultural
values we can add to the lives of our youth will
give them a bigger faith in American civilization.
Let’s keep our children recreationally literate!

Art Groups on City Playgrounds

(Continued from page 8)

Instead, if she is in doubt, she merely says, “Tell
me about your picture.”

The playground art groups lasted only four
weeks because of a polio epidemic which forced us
to discontinue all groups for children under four-
teen years old. However, in that short time we
gained a great deal of experience in planning and
conducting the groups which will enable us to
make' them even more successful next year. we
also proved, I h0pe, to the citizens of Louisville,
that art is a necessary and invaluable part of any
recreation program.

APRIL 1945

   
   

l" COCIy “(id 0‘ k» H0 m Pla‘gg
soul Sum PM and A~.ncu~ P,"

L." ant insignia“. oP Umvs‘rl Mn

‘3- Lnsgn snd High Ssh s m Mu

mu'nal and Industrial luv: w m
6c’1‘."nith Sports Equipmcm \ 'rr

swat-i as e hallmark ‘ 'iu""v

" ‘ -"v " ring pair-w "in

-F D _——-——-———

' awarded,

I‘m-.- ‘ .N‘ 1|
Mac GREGOR‘GOIDQMHH Inc \V _ f3);  :gopucrs. {mg

n INOI‘NO 3'! M 1m til.“ I140, 01.!

 

Playground Miscellany

(Continued from page 21,)

ers. The leaders and directors select the projects
to be accomplished and keep the score sheets.
They are responsible for forming teams. They
decide how much weight in the final scoring should
be given for playground citizenship — attendance,
safety, general cooperativeness. Leaders, too, may
decide that a project which could not be success-
fully completed in a single week may be continued
into the second or third week in the place of a new
undertaking.

Among the projects suggested for 1944 were
such diversified interests as trapeze work and
safety, learning to swim and basket making, sand
carving and handball, scrapbooks, and hike trips.

‘ ‘ 3
\‘lom'rnu a BER-COVERED
'  ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
"'5! hr '1'. .l. Vail Rubber [orp.-1600 E. 2511: 5L, to: Angeles It
“I (hinge Branch—180 Ho. Wicker Drive -Zone 6

Manufacturers. Cincinnati. 0

50 AIRPORTS AS RECREATION AREAS?

COSTUMES
...TO RENT

for Plays, Pageants, and Festivals

Special Rates to High Schools
VAN HORN & SON 311 CHESTNUT ST.

PHILA. 7, PENNA.
Eltlblillled 1852

Theatrical C ostu mers

Airports as Recreation Areas?

(Continued from page 39)

served by them. Furthermore, the airport is com—
monly built on a site at some distance from resi-
dential neighborhoods. For these reasons it is not
a suitable location for recreation areas of the play—
ground or playtield type.

Much has been written on the popularity of the
Airport Playheld at Cincinnati, Ohio, where some
two hundred acres of the muhicipal airport site
were leased to the Municipal Recreation Commis—
sion and deveIOped as a sports center for the entire
city. In this instance, however, the site was
selected for the playtield by the Public Recreation
Commission because the land was city-owned and
therefore available. The airport and playtield are
under separate management and there is no special
relationship between users of the two areas. The
playtield is the result of opportunistic action on the
part of the recreation authorities rather than of
deliberate conviction that the airport and playtield
should be developed on a single site.

Safety Considerations

Apart from the question of sound planning, one
might ask whether it is wise, from the standpoint
of safety, to encourage the gathering of large num-
bers of people in airport swimming pools or in
bleachers at baseball and football fields. Many
parents would hesitate to permit their children to
play day after day on airport playgrounds. The
question of safety is bound to be raised at airports
designed for non-scheduled private flying, which
are likely to be much more numerous than the
large terminals and to be located near built-up
areas where neighborhood facilities are needed.
What assurance has the public that the experience
with the reckless and intoxicated automobile driver
will not be repeated in the air?

 

Mr. Burden’s suggestion that recreation areas
where relative quiet is desirable will be Spaced in
sectors of the marginal areas between the runway
approaches requires some explanation. Can a loca- '
tion between the runway approaches at an airport
be conducive to activities where quiet is desirable?
Sound planning of landscape parks designed for
relaxation and quiet would seem to require a
location far removed from the airport.

Some Possibilities

In fairness to those who suggest the recreation-
airport combination, it must be said that there are
recreation uses that might lend themselves 'to such
a location. A municipal golf course, for example,
which requires a large space that must generally
be sought at a distance from built-up centers and
that serves relatively small numbers of people
widely scattered over the course, might well be
developed adjoining an airport. A large landscape
park providing paths for hiking, bicycling and
horseback riding, and scattered picnic facilities,
might be similarly located. The same might be said
'of a community forest affording recreational op-
portunities in the form of nature study, hiking and
picnicking in restricted locations. In all such
cases, however, the space required for recreation
is so great that actually it would adjoin the airport
rather than be incorporated in the airport site.
Even so, such a location for a golf course, a recre-
ation park or forest is justified only if it is the
best available site.

In all phases of city planning the utmost co-
operation between departments and services is
desirable—in fact essential. Wherever possible,
economies should be affected by planning for the
multiple use of space and facilities. A test of every
plan, however, is whether it will yield the maxi—
mum returns in economical and efiicient service.
Persons and organizations interested in recreation
need to study carefully plans involving the de-
velopment at public expense of recreation areas
and facilities. This is particularly important in
the case of plans promoted by agencies not pri-
marily concerned with recreation but which realize
that recreation may be used as a means of advanc-
ing their own purposes. Such plans merit public
support only insofar as they will provide recreation
areas and facilities that are satisfactory in location
and design, that will not make it more diflicult to
secure more needed facilities, and that will render

effective recreation service.

RECREATION

EVERYTHING FOR THE BOYS—AND THE GIRLS! 51

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEY S "IN ACTION" IN THE SPACIOUS GAL/IE ROOM OF THE
N. C. C. S.-USO  LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two—Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL—
LATiON COST!) is proving to he one of the leading game—units, now

Included in RECREATION PROGRAMS oil over the country. Because of
its E-—Z set—up features. solid construction and convenient size, the
alloy is perfectly adapted for immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send for complete infarmotlon and descriptive
literature including many, many letters praising the good, clean com-
potitlve fun ond relaxation derived from Two—Woy Bowling. . . . Mail

the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828

0 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

Everything for the Boys—and
the Girls!

(Continued from page 37)

Both for men returned with battle scars from the
war areas and for other patients there is on hand
every modern means of reconditioning patients both
physically and mentally. Craft work of all kinds, a
wide variety of entertainment, visits with celebri-
ties. of stage and screen, athletic contests between
big league teams, swimming and other forms of
hydrotherapy, vocational and avocational counsel—
ing are contributing to the rehabilitation of the
ill or wounded.

The participation figures in the recreation pro—
gram at the Center are large. Last year’s figures
tell their own story.

APRIL 1945

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................................................. ..

Address ......................................................... ..
City ...................................... .. Stare ................ ..

NEW. YORK. N. Y. .

 

 

1n Recreation Buildings Participants
Lounge room . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,752,384

Tafble games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1,067,916

Variety shows attendance . . . . . . . . . . . .. 847,116

Physical activities in the gym . . . . . . . . .. 1,148,928

Musical “jam” sessions . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 646,208
At varsity football, basketball, baseball

games, swimming meets, and track meets 581,001
At concerts, boxing, wrestling, musical en-

tertainments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726,800
In libraries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 288,000
In recreational athletics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,014,080
Boxing shows—participants and spectators 601,200
Bowling, league and individual . . . . . . . . . . . 114,800

Contest

EYNAL A N15 HITCHCOCK has established a new
department—a children’s book section. Its di-
rectOr is Helen" Hoke who announces as her first

52 VAC/1 TION-AT-HOME PROGRAM

 

 

you Can Use

THE JOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large-pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

W
W

major project a “Youth Today” contest. For the
most sensitive, realistic book about some aspect of
American life and youth problems, either fiction or
non—fiction, Reyna] and Hitchcock will make an
outright award of $2,000 and will add to it an
additional $1,500 as an advance against normal
royalty rates. Story and interest to young readers
will be the first consideration of the judges in
making the award. The underlying theme, an im—
portant though secondary consideration, must be
vital and concerned with plausible situations. The
book may be designed for any group of ages be—
tween eight and eighteen. The contest will close
February 1, 1946 and is open to all authors
whether previously published or not.

The purpose of the contest is to stimulate the
writing of books which will add to the under—
standing and wisdom with which young people
look at the age in which we live.

For further details about the contest rules and
entry blank, write to “Youth Today” Contest,

Reyna] and Hitchcock, Inc., 386 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16, N. Y.

Spreading the News

(Continued from page 24)
run in connection with the news reel—the best
possible program spot for our purpose.

The Recreation Department paid the cost of
making the trailer. This came to $60. The work
was done by a professional studio, and eleven iden—
tical copies were provided. In this way each thea-
ter can show the film for seyeral days and all

Vacation-at-Home Program

URING THE PAST three years of war the U. S.

Office of Defense Transportation has consist-
ently stressed the vital need of conserving the
transportation facilities of the nation. The need
now for more rigid conservation by the civilian
public is so urgent that ODT is re—emphasizing the
facts about wartime travel, particularly as they
relate to the summer vacation months of 1945.

A release from the ODT cities the urgency of
war needs, such as the growth in military travel
and manpower shortage, as evidenced by the fact
that more than 300,000 railroad workers and ad-
ditional numbers from bus-line operations have
entered the armed services. New workers are not
only hard to obtain but are, for the most part,
unskilled and must be trained before they can
handle jobs ordinarily performed by men with
years of experience. “The added burden of heavy
1945 vacation travel coould conceivably prove to be
‘the straw that broke the camel’s back.’ There is
no extra or special railroad or bus equipment to
take care of vacation travel this summer, and none
will be provided."

Under these circumstances the planning by local
recreation departments and private groups of pro—
grams which will be as adequate and fan-reaching
as possible assumes great importance.

 

 

theaters will receive it while the season is yet
young.

Looking Forward

For 1945 a plan is in the making for a new
angle on publicity. The h0pe is that the Junior
Chamber of Commerce will operate a circus cal-
li0pe to spread the news. A poster contest with
school art classes competing is another publicity
plan contemplated.

Family recreation will be to the fore again in
1945. A large part of the summer for teen-age
youth will be built around the canteen clubs now
being operated. A notable change will be made in
connection with the playground music program.
In former years several bands and orchestras have
been organized. This year rhythm bands will be
stressed because a younger group of participants
is expected as a result of industrial and commercial
employment of boys and girls well down into the
junior high sthool brackets.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS ’ 53

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker l

 

MAGAZINES

The Crippled Child, February 1945
This Is Not “Kid Stuff,” Ruth Royce

Parents’ Magazine, March 1945 _
W'e Are Practicing Parents, Celina Wilson

California Parent-Teacher, February 1945
What’s Wrong with the Rural School? Helen Hef-
fernan and Charles W'. Bursch

The American City, February 1945
Subdivision Control Through “Preferred Risk Com-
munities,” Sidney Schulman
Fewer Streets, More Play Space, Edward A. Eichstedt
\Vhat Type Memorial? Anne Holliday W'ebb

The Minnesota Sportsmen's Digest, January-February 1945
Providing for Outdoor Enjoyment, Reynold E.
Carlson

The Camping Magazine, February 1945

Group Psychotherapy Related to Group Trauma,
Helen Ross

So Went the Summer, Mary L. Northway

Nature Study Takes to the Woods, A. Cooper Bal-
lentine

How to Preserve Food in Pioneer Units

To Be or Not to Be—A Profession of Camping,
Harleigh B. Treckcr

Pnblic illanagement, February 1945
Planning Municipal Fiscal Policies, Carl H. Chatters
Inquiries on Administrative Problems

Education for Victory, March 3, 1945
Physical Performance Levels for High-School Girls

Junior League .Magazine, March 1945
The Second “R”

Safety Education, March 1945
Child Accident Record for 1944, data prepared 'by

National Safety Council
Analyzing Athletics Accidents, Ralph H. Johnson

Scholastic Coach, February 1945
A Safety Course in Baseball, Dave Tobey
Make Your Equipment Last, Cpl. John Kraft
Sports on Midway

Teacher’s Digest, February 1945
Great Britain Emphasized the Extra-Curricular,
C. C. Harvey and H. C. Dent
Replacing—Children’s War Games, Carl A. Troester,
r.
The National Elementary Principal, February 1945

Effective Home and School COOperation for Health
and Physical Fitness, Ben W. Miller

PAM PH LETS

Kids in Trouble
Council of Social Agencies, Buffalo, New York

Long Range Recreation Plan
Board of Park Commissioners, City Hall, Fort
W'ayne, Indiana. $1.00
Short Cuts
Tacoma Housing Authority, Tacoma, Washington

Living War Memorials
National Americanism Committee, The American
Legion, Indianapolis 6, Indiana
Social Honr Program of the High School of Religion and
Program Helps for Social Hanrs

Catholic Youth‘Organization, Diocese of Brooklyn,
4 (,ourt Square, Brooklyn

APRIL 1945

  
    
  
  
 

Beth National reanlatlen “hardball” and
“aeIthaII” baaca are uaed aa the atandard
In many leaguea and reereatlenal depart-
menta. Guaranteed to give lenz playing
oatlafaetion. National patented reveralhla
softball hence have proven extremely
popular. Write for complete detatla.

   

NATIONAI.

SPORTS EQUIPMENI CO.
65 an. m E"": - nun on I. .c. we

Arts and Crafts Shop for Childreh

(Continued from page 35)

about this new project we hope to operate it as a
year-round project in the not—too-distant future.
—Reprinted from National Parent-Teacher, Jan-

nary 194 5.

 
   

NOTE: The captions for the pictures on pages
28 and 29 are all taken from Robert Louis Steven—
son’s A Child’s Garden of Verses.

Playgrounds Round the Calendar

( C outinned from page 23)

cilitics. Now they are receiving special services.

“Little Tokio” had become a residential area
for Negro war-working families. For this neigh-
borhood a temporary playground was set up. It
became the center for children’s activities and for
youth programe—a service joyfully received by all
concerned. The benefits to children and young
people are strikingly proved by better conduct and
fewer accidents.

The second area—overcrowded by people of
many races with conflicting mores and ingrained
prejudices—had been a long worry to police and
juvenile authorities. To it the Recreation Depart—
ment assigned a “director-at-large.” He brought
together the many rival youth gangs; made peace
between them; encouraged them to take part to-
gether in sports events and teen-age dances. 80
successful was he that during the harvest season
erstwhile warring groups of young people trans-
ported themselves in a truck of their own pur-
chasing to help get in the crops from the fields
and orchards of the San Fernando Valley. De-
linquency took a noticeable tumble. The young
people of their own free will and accord adopted
a code of good behaviour They abolished zoot
suits, agreed to stop drinking, to ban smoking at
dances, to abide by all the regulations of the Rec—
reation Departmentand the city.

54 “HEY, TEACH! WHAT’S THAT?”

In addition to the teen-age programs conducted
in cooperation with the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion, and the special projects at housing develop-
ments, the City Recreation Department has worked
closely with other youth agencies.

The Boy and Girl Scouts, Y.M.C.A., the Catho—
lic Youth Organization, church groups and others
have worked in a close cooperative relationship
with municipal playgrounds and municipal play—
ground directors. These groups have used the
city’s facilities extensively for sports, entertain-
ments, camping, meetings, and other activities, and
in many cases neighborhood and district youth
activity events have been arranged in which many
different youth agencies together with the play-
grounds have taken part.

The University of Southern California, the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles, and City
College have cooperated extensively with the mu-
nicipal playgrounds, and have aided by providing
student assistants to regular playground directors.

Parents and other volunteers who have shown
an interest in the work on the playgrounds have
in many cases offered their services to assist the
regular recreation directors in organizing and car-
rying out neighborhood programs for young peo-
ple. In large scale community events, such as
delinquency prevention, Halloween programs, ob-
servance of patriotic occasions and holidays, sum-
mer festivals and the like, the many district organi-
zations, including coordinating councils, men’s

service clubs, women’s groups, churches, and
P.T.As. have all lent a hand. ‘

l'Hey. Teach! aWhat's That?"

(Continued from page 17)

puppy. Many boys and girls learned from her
that goats do not eat tin cans! One boy, when
asked to clean up after lunch, was seen trying to
feed the papers and cans to Buttermilk! To his
disgust she would not cooperate! Another young—
ster, pointing to a chicken, asked the favorite ques-
tion, “Hey, Teach, what’s that?” It was actually
the first time she had seen a chicken “on the hoof."

A Winter Program, Too

Up to the present time, over 6,000 camper days
have been registered by the three programs out—
lined. The winter program now in effect will in-
crease this total. This will be operated at the Air-

port Playhouse where a small room has been fitted
out as a nature room. In addition to the aquaria,
other related exhibits are on display. The building
also offers some craft opportunities as well as room
for games. Archery was a feature of last winter’s
program and probably will arouse much interest
again. Whenever the weather is good out-of—door
trips will be included in the program.

One feature of the program of last year will be
continued this year. Each group that so desired
took back to its classroom a Tom Thumb aquarium
made of glass jugs, gallon size. The group pro-
vided a jug, the top of which was cut off. For 25
cents they were equipped with plants, fish, snails,
and sand, and the children were shown how to
make a balanced aquarium. A similar arrangement
is being worked out with terraria this year.'Plants
are being raised on the little sash greenhouse which
adjoins the Playhouse. Materials for other novel-
ties will be made available. Carrot ferns, dish
gardens, and bulbs will be grown.

Another phase of the winter program is the
club program. Several types of nature clubs are
being formed at the community centers. These
clubs are of interest to the young folks; camping
clubs appeal to the older boys and girls. The
groups get out of doors as much as possible, but
when this is impossible they devote their time to
making camping equipment such as tin can cook-
ing kits, packs, tents, and gadgets. Farm clubs
will soon be getting underway to be ready for the
growing season.

For the adults a campfire series is being spon-
sored. These are held on Friday evenings around
the fireplace in the Lodge at the Walnut Hills
Playfield. Speakers on all types of out-of—door
activities are brought in for these. An interested
group of amateurs is attracted to them. Some of the
members have been directed into active nature
hobby clubs in the city when their interest lies in
this direction.

Through these programs it is hoped to make
Cincinnati “nature conscious.” The lack of nature
knowledge and interest is appalling in most city
youngsters. When all trees are classed as “Christ-
mas trees” or “not Christmas trees” and when all
birds are “chippies” and serve only as targets, it
is time to take drastic steps. Learning that these
things are interesting and_ that lots of fun can be
had when they are known better, starts a new and

' important train of thought.

RECREATION

NOW OFF THE PRESS l 55

Now Off the Press!

moxc THE MOST POPULAR drama material issued
by the National Recreation Association have

been Sir More Dramatic Stunts and Six New

Dramatic S trmts. The continuous demand for these
playlets and skits has been proof of the need for
more dramatic material which lends itself to easy
production and-requires little or no scenery or
costumes. '

In the Wartime Skits and Short Plays, now
ready for distribution in the form of a mimeo-
graphed bulletin (MP 360), are the following:

The Rock, by Pearl Buck

(A children’s play about Chinese children)

I’ll Be Back, Darling, by Mrs. Millard Davidson

(A G.I. comedy)
C rass-a'aers
(Twelve amusing acts for a revue)
Govermnent Issues
How to Get a Seat on a. Bus, by Albert M.
Otterheimer ‘ '
(Two clever blackouts)
Keeping It Secret, by Richard Stern
(Starring Private Sad Sack)

All the material listed has been taken from the
USO Program Services Bulletin, Dramatics,,and
is used by permission of the USO. The price of

this collection is 35 cents.

Some Revisions

We know that many of you are following closely
developments in the Association’s publication pro-
gram, so here are a few items of interest.

There has been such a demand for the book,
Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader ($1.50),
published about 15 months ago, that it has been
necessary to have another edition.

Games for Quiet Hours and S mall S paces, which
is being so widely used, has also been reprinted.
Many of you were fortunate enough to secure
copies of the 20 cent edition made possible by a
special gift. With this reprinting it has been nec-
essary to restore the original price of 50 cents.

Adventuring in Nature, too, has been in such
demand that another edition has been printed. First
published in 1939, there have since been three re—
prints. The price, 60 cents.

u-LVe want to remind you of a pamphlet which
merits your attention. This is Rccreation and the
Church (25 cents). Section headings are: \Vhy
Church Recreation; Leadership and Training;
Recreation Programs for Churches; and \Vider
Use of Church Buildings for Recreation.

APRIL 1945

M1 THE PLAYGRIJUNIJ
1N CRAFT snaps

At Camps . . . In Club Work
Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Supplies things to do—-—-to make—~craft
projects suitable for boys and girls from
preschool groups through the junior-
high-school level.

When rainy days keep children from
playing out of doors, the ideal activities
are those which develop creative talents,
give a sense of accomplishment, and open
new avenues of thought. Modeling,
sketching, scrapbooks, weaving, gesso
work, puppeteering, woodworking ——
these are only a few of the subjects which
are treated in Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES.

You will find Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES
a valuable aid in organizing craft classes
and in leading young people’s groups.

FREE: Send for free information.

I0c in coin brings you a sample copy.

33 .00 per year

(10 consecutive issues
starting with current issue)

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Dept. R

4616 N. CLARK ST.

CHICAGO 4.0, ILL.

 

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

C

The Folk Festival Handbook

The Evening Bulletin Folk Festival Association. Bulletin
Building, Philadelphia. 50 cents.

“AFOLK FESTIVAL is not merely an event which features

the songs and dances of people who have come to
this country in recent times. It also provides an oppor-
tunity for Americans whose families have been settled
here for generations to know and appreciate the customs,
songs, and dances of their ancestors. A folk festival is
an event for all Americans.” So says the explanatory
note prefacing this Handbook which is designed as a
practical guide to local communities. It is a full guide as
well as a practical one, giving detailed suggestions for
every step of festival arranging from planning through
cleaning up the loose ends afterwards. Good biblio—
graphies and a list of local community festivals held
recently are valuable addenda to the booklet.

Higgins Arts and Crafts Proiects

Higgins Ink Co., Inc., 271 Ninth Street, Brooklyn. $1.00.
HERE ARE DETAILED INSTRUCTIONS for ten craft projects

to be carried out with Higgins colored inks. Maps,
portfolios, decorated papers and cloth, bookbindings,
transparencies are among the things that can be made
according to the plans and specifications contained in this
portfolio.

The Direct Technique of Water

Color Painting
By Charles X. Carlson. Melior Books, 156 Fifth Avenue,
New York. $1.00.

The Simplified Essentials of Oil Painting, by Charles
X. Carlson. Melior Books, 156 Fifth Avenue, New

York. $1.00. 0 0
OR THE WOULD-BE PAINTER in water color or 011, Mr.

Carlson’s instructions in the pictorial manner are
first-aid manuals.
choice of equipment through the principles of color, com-
position, and techniques .to advice on special problems
that are sure to meet the beginner before he gets very far
along. The instructions are clear and understandable and
are designed to answer the questions most apt to plague
the novice working either in Oil or water color.

Who's Delinquent?

Prepared by E. O. Harbin and Clarice M. Bowman.
Youth Department, Division of Local Church Board of
Education, Methodist Church, 810 Broadway, Nash-
ville 2, Tenn. $.10.

“TEEN-AGE YOUTH are on trial today for every crime
known to man. .
help adults recognize and aid these youngsters on trial,
youngsters delinquent or about to become delinquent that
this special issue of Conference Kit is published. It is a

practical compilation of the experiences Of many peOple 7

who are trying to help Hour youth meet its problems.

56

He takes his “students” from the'

. . Their future is now.” It is tO'

What Do I Do Next?

USO Division, National Board, Y.W.C.A., 600 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York. $.25.

HE SUBTITLE Of this booklet is “An Aid for Volunteer

Leaders Of Adolescents.” It deals effectively and
clearly with problems of a teen—age leader such as the
h'rst steps in Organizing, a group, discovering interest,
working together, relation to the community. A bibli—
ography suggests further aids to the leader.

A Child's Garden of Verses

By Robert Louis Stevenson. Photo-illustrations by Toni
Frissell. U. S. Camera Publishing Corporation, New

York. $2.00.
Mrss FRISSELL’s photo—illustrations enter with verity
into the same child world which opened its secrets
so many years ago to the pen of Robert Louis Stevenson.
If anything could add a cubit to the stature of A C hild’s
Garden of Verses these pictures of children about their
“lawful occasions” would do it. For, working in her own
medium, Miss Frissell has, like Stevenson, recaptured the
essence of that world of play, of fancy and the imagina-
tion, which is the child’s natural home.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARaETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRADCHEa, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

Mas. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
Gus-rAvus T. KIRDY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG Bams, Boston, Mass.

MRs. ROBERT Wooos Buss, Washington, D. C.
HoWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HEnaY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore.

MRs. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRs. THOMAs A. EDIsON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AnsTrN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

Mas. NORMAN HARROWEa, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mas. MELYILLE H. HAsKELL, TusCOn, Ariz.
MRs. CHARLEs V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
Mas. JOHN D. JAMRsON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
CnsTAvus T. KIRRY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa. -- -
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

Mes. OGDEN L. MILLs, Woodhury, N. Y.

MRs. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

J. C. WALsH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARDURO, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARO, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

