Security through Recreation

NOT VERY LONG AGO a President of the United States said, “We have nothing to
fear but fear itself.”

Always one of the major human problems has been doing away with fear.

Pre-historic man had very much to fear.
And we still have the atomic bomb.
Cowards die many times before their deaths.

Even if a man is to die, it is important that he continue to be master of his own soul
and be able\ to take what comes with a smile.

What man has most reason to fear is himself—“his own limitations, his own weak-
nesses.

Man’s religion has made a major contribution in overcoming fear.

If man is to grow as he can and become what he ought, one of the hrst tasks is
not only overcoming fear but also arriving at a sense of security.

This sense of security is something positive and constructive—more than just the
absence of fear.

Music, drama, art have much to do in helping man to achieve this sense of security.

Recreation hasa great contribution to make in helping man to grow. helping man to
overcome his weaknesses, helping man to achieve the strength that is rightfully his.

We have passed out of the pre-atomic age. We do not yet know the world that is to
be, but we do know that recreation has a deep, significant and abiding contribution
to make in helping man to remain master in the new world that is coming into being.
instead of letting him become a slave, fearful of what he himself has created.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

NOVEMBER I945

393

November

V ‘
, .57-, r_ 7‘

Photo by Louise M. Cross, M incurs" 53¢“ Tqathtrs'CoUegc Courtesy Childhood Education

394 RECREATION

 

Wanted! More Hobby Programs on the Air

By DOROTHY L. MCFADDEN,

ow MANY radio programs
H are there today that

stimulate some creative
effort on the part of the young
listener? Pitifully few. In a survey* which covered
over 1,500 radio series for children that were
broadcast from 1940 to Ig45—-——mainly after school
hours—the “hobby” category was found to include
only fourteen interesting series. Among the other
' twenty-one types of program, only a few here and
there contained anything that would encourage
constructive activity on the part of the listener.
This seems to confirm
the often-heard criticism

President
Junior Programs. Inc.

 

The Good Neighbor and the
We Are Americans series over
station WLAV in Grand
Rapids, Michigan, for exam-
ple, should prove a challenge to anyone inter-
ested in handcrafts. Two thousand children
joined the Young American Craftsmen Club in
order to obtain the free weekly mimeographed
bulletins giving them instructions for various craft
activities. That these instructions were well fol-
lowed out by the young club members in their
play time was evidenced by the splendid exhibits
of their work held at the
museum at various inter-

of parents and educators
who complain that too
many radio programs for
children, though they may
be entertaining and per-
fectly harmless, contribute
nothing to the young list-
ener’s personality growth
and are really little more
than a waste of time. They
feel that since children
spend an average of four-
teen hours a week “tuning

H

in, a fair proportion of

During the past year there has been a lot
of tall: in RECREATION. about radio—its use
and its misuse. So, we were something more
than pleased when the President of Junior
Programs, lnc.. wrote us that she had some-
thing to say on the subject. What she says
will—we hope—bear rich fruit in more of the
kind of radio programs that are right up your
alley to produce or to recommend.

And—just in case you missed those other
articles we mentioned here's a list of them:
Going on the Air? December. I944: Patterns
for Publicity in Radio, March. I945: Wis-
consin’s Ranger M ac, March, I945: Design
for Promoting a Listening Audience,
August. I945.

vals during the progress
of the series.

The second series kept
up the children’s interest
in Latin America and in
three periods of American
art. Demonstrations by
professional artists and
exhibits of handcrafts from
the countries and periods
described were also held at
the museum, so that chil-
dren were constantly in-
Spired to make beautiful

that time should have some

value beyond amusement.

Young people could, during those after-school
hours, be deveIOping resources that would last
them throughout the leisure hours of their later
lives. In this, the radio could be of great impor-
tance, for it reaches and influences thousands of
children who do not belong to any youth organiza-
tions or attend playground or settlement activities,
and who so often have no idea of what to do with
themselves.

 

Hobby Programs that Worked

There have been some exceedingly interesting
hobby programs aired in various parts of the
country within recent years. Some of these may
no longer be on the air, but their basic purposes and
patterns were so worthwhile they should be an
inspiration to others to “go  . and do likewise.”

 

' Program Potter”: for Young Radio Listeners, by Dorothy Lewis
and Dorothy L. McFadden. National Association of Broad-
casters, 535 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y. Free.

NOVEMBER 1945

things with their hands.
This was truly a commu-
nity project. The idea came from the Grand
Rapids Museum. The work was organized and
financed by the local Junior League, and scripts
were written by a League member. Special ex-
hibits were arranged by the museum’s sponsors.
The library made up lists of correlated reading and
displayed books. The applied arts teachers in the
schools prepared the mimeographed craft instruc-
tions. The children, themselves, made posters and
fliers in school, and the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tions helped to publicize the project. Surely the
tremendous response of the youngsters showed that
they wanted guidance and help in deveIOping skills
after school hours!

Actual instruction in handcrafts was given over
the air on The Idea. Lady programs on station
WHK in Cleveland, Ohio. In Oklahoma City, on
W'KY, suggestions for craft activities followed
each story dramatization on The Junior Bookshelf.

395

396 WANTED! MORE HOBBY PROGRAMS ON THE AIR

This was a special project during the polio epi—
demic and filled a real need in giving quarantined
children ideas for things to do.

Children have been interviewed about their hob-
bies on series such as the Junior Round Table in
Seattle, Washington (on KJR) and Kid-Obby
Time in Long Beach, California.

Let’s Play House, broadcast over KFAM, St.
Cloud, Minnesota, had a club for girls called the
Junior Mixing Bowl. Children brought in things
they had made—sewed, cooked, woven—each Sat-
urday morning when a board of judges passed on
the exhibits. '

Another program specializing in girls was Betty
N ewton’s Cooking School on WP IN, Findlay,
Ohio. Anyone with a talent for cooking and
handling lively youngsters ought to be able to in-
spire the radio listeners with a desire to start
cooking too! This type of program should have
no trouble in finding local food sponsors, if a
sponsor is desired.

Boys showed great enthusiasm over the N ewhio
Flying Club series on WHIO, Dayton, Ohio. Ex-
perts were interviewed, reports were read from
local model plane clubs, and information was given
guaranteed to keep up the young listener’s interest
in this worthwhile hobby.

At the Youth Center in San Francisco, record-
ings were made of some of the activities planned
and carried out by the youngsters. Dancing, cop-
per work, weaving, swimming, were later broad—
cast on the Youth Speaks for Itself program on

KPO.

Nature, Music and Dramatics Go Over
the Airways

Interest in pets and other animals was aroused
by the Animal Antic programs on KBPS, Port—
land, Oregon, when stories that were sent in by
the child listeners were broadcast in addition to
other animal stories. Programs like Afield with
Ranger Mac, 0‘1 \VHA in Madison, Wisconsin,
undoubtedly have encouraged many youngsters to
start nature collections. Junior Gardeners from
Elmira, New York’s W ENY seems to have been
the only continuous series designed to give prac—
tical help both winter and summer to young garden
enthusiasts.

In the field of music hobbies, how much could be
done by recreation leaders to raise the standards
of many of the “talent shows” that exploit the
supposedly talented child! The splendid chorus
developed for the Young America Sings broad-

casts in Memphis, Tennessee, on WMC could be
used as a pattern by many community leaders.
Standards for admission to the chorus are kept so
high that young people feel it a real honor when
they are allowed to join, and the group enjoys
numerous annual activities of its own besides re-
hearsing and singing on the program.

Other interesting examples in the music field
are the children’s harmonica band of sixty that
played on station KOY, Phoenix, Arizona, alter-
nating on Saturday mornings with a story pro-
gram; and a choral group from the playgrounds
of San Bernardino, California, which made a spe— .
cialty of western songs and poetry over station
KFXM in a program called Ranclzo Roundup.

Novel games, as well as other activities in the
play centers are described on the weekly Recrea-
tion Program on station WNBF in Binghamton,
New York.

Youngsters interested in dramatics will work
especially hard to be allowed to broadcast. The
young people on the Playhouse program on
WHBC, Canton, Ohio, had a wonderful time with
a club and other activities between the days when
they entertained audiences with dramatized fairy
tales, mystery plays, and Sunday evening Bible
stories.

A Challenge to Recreation Leaders —

Perhaps the above descriptions may make the
reader feel that there are plenty of interesting
radio hobby programs. Unfortunately the pres-
sure of wartime broadcasting forced many of these
off the air while others were discontinued due to
lack of personnel and other factors. Even if every
one of them were still being broadcast, they would
be only a drop in the bucket, considering that there
are over 900 radio stations in this country and
more than twenty million children between the
ages of five and thirteen !

These samples of some successful ideas do not
in themselves begin to cover all the types of pro—
gram that could be developed. Leaders such as
those trained in recreation work should take the
initiative in planning and at times writing and
presenting radi0.series for young people in the
field that they know best, whether it be new games
to play, crafts that use waste material, nature lore,
music, drama, or what have you? Well, what do
you have that you could offer over the air to enrich
the lives of some of these twenty million eager
youngsters?

_'( Continued on page 442)

RECREATION

The National Recreation Congress

Many have told us not only that they very much I,
wanted this Congress. but what they wanted if
and when a Congress was permitted.

If you wrote before but have new suggestions
now, please send them in. If you have not written
and are meaning to do so—good!

Will you attend? How many of your group will
come? How many board members? How many

volunteers? No limit is being placed this year
upon the number who can attend.

 

Atlantic City' New Jersey . . .

tion has held no Congress. Though requests

for a Recreation Congress during the war years
were urgent and country-wide, the Association,
complying with the requests of the Office of De-
fense Transportation, decided to postpone the
meeting until travel restrictions had been lifted.

SINCE 1942 the National Recreation Associa—

Now there is to be a Congress —at Atlantic
City, New Jersey—January 28 — February I, 1946.
Plans for the program are under way. Requests
for suggestions have gone out all over the country,

but it is too early to make any announcements re—
garding program or speakers.

Because the problem of hotel reservations is a
difficult one these days, the Association has made
the housing of delegates one of its first concerns.
Although many of the hotels in Atlantic City are
still being used by the government as hospitals for
servicemen, the Association has been able to work
out an arrangement with a combination of hotels
which will provide excellent meeting facilities and
rooming accommodations at rates that will meet
the needs of all delegates, including those desiring
better accommodations and willing to pay more, as
well as those desiring to secure less expensive
accommodations.

The hotels selected are very close together thus
making accessibility to meetings easy for all re—
gardless of where their rooms are located. Popular
priced restaurants are also close by making it pos—
sible for delegates to obtain meals at different
places if desired.

NOVEMBER 1945

—Howard Braucber

. . . January 28 - February I. I946

The combination of hotels agreeing to serve the
Recreation Congress includes: The Claridge,
Brighton, Crillon, Dennis, Madison, and Monti—
cello.

Claridge, Headquarters hotel, is on Indiana
Avenue, six blocks from the station.

Brighton is just across the street also on Indiana.

The Madison and the Dennis are just one block
away.

The Monticello, two and a half blocks away.

The Crillon with parking lot is one half block to
the rear.

Three popular price restaurants are within *two
blocks of Congress headquarters.

The Claridge has generously agreed to furnish
all of their meeting rooms and exhibit space and
has therefore been designated Congress Headquar-
ters. All general meetings, most of the section
meetings, the exhibits, consultation and informa—
tion services will be there. Some of the section
meetings will be held at the Brighton immediately
across the street.

Approximately 300 can be accommodated at the
Claridge if rooms are occupied as double rooms.
Rates are also less on this basis per person. Single
rooms are at a premium. Whenever possible, dele-
gates are requested to double up.

Rates for the official Recreation Congress Hotels
are as follows:

Claridge Ho+e|——C0ngress Headquarters
Double 0ccupancy-———$4.50, 5.00, 5.50, 6.00, 6.50,
$7.50, 8.50 per person daily '
(Continued on page 436)

397

Museums for Children

HE BOY, about fourteen, came

belligerently into the model

airplane room of the Junior
Recreation Museum, San Francisco. Under his
coat he was clutching a white mouse.

“Look at the animals all you want, but you’ll
have to keep them down in the Science Room,”
said the curator. This newcomer’s looking-for-
trouble and don’t-you-tangle-with-me attitude had
led him to keep an unobtrusive eye on the boy.

After the mouse had been replaced in its cage—
one of a dozen or more inhabited by lizards, snakes,
toads, white mice and rats—the boy modified his
belligerent attitude somewhat.

“D’yuh ’spose,” he said, “I could make one of
those speed models up there?”

“You certainly can,” the curator replied. “There‘s
a group about your age that works here every day
except Sunday. There are contests, too, where you
can fly your own models.”

This incident— occurred last summer a few days
after the close of school. The boy not only stayed
that afternoon but
came every day
t h e in u s e u m
w a s o p e n a n d
worked with box-
wood, sand blocks,
wood putty, and
paint. What is
more, he became
one of his group’s
best model build—
ers and so pro-
ficient that one of

his planes is on
exhibit in the club
workroom.

A week after the
boy’s first visit his
mother called at
the Museum to
find out what her
son was doing.
She was obviously
at once h0ping to

learn that his story 'phm by new Kern;

398

By RUTH ELWONGER
BerkeleyI California

of his new activities was correct
and fearing that it was too good
to be true.

“You know,” she sighed in relief to the curator,
“I’ve been so worried about Johnnie—that he’d
get in trouble this summer for sure. My husband
works nights and can’t sleep when Johnnie stays
around the house during the day. I work days but
I thought I’d have to give up my job and try to
keep an eye on Johnnie. Now all of a sudden he’s
a different boy since he thinks of nothing but
building planes and the contests he’s going to
enter.”

You probably recall your own childhood visits
to museums—the rows of glass cases, the gigantic
mounted skeletons, glistening floors of corridors
lined with paintings that seemed all ornate frame,
blue—coated guards like wax figures in the corners.

Museums have experienced a revolution since

A’r Pale Alfo boys learn to build
boats under skilled craf’rsmen

 

RECREATION

MUSEUMS OR CHILDREN 399

those days, beginning in 1899 with the establish-
ment of the Brooklyn Children’s Museum, the first
museum in the world for children. The 1930’s and
the availability of \VPA funds and personnel ac-
celerated the movement so that today there are
thirty-odd museums for children—in Alabama,

California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Indiana,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New York,
Tennessee, and Washington, D. C. The idea has
spread to other parts of the world. Perhaps the
newest junior museum outside the United States
is that being established in the British West In—
dies by the Barbados Museum and Historical So—
ciety. Many adult museums now have junior sec-
tions. For example, in San Francisco the M. H.
De Young Memorial Museum and the California
Palace of the Legion of Honor—which are art
museums—and the California Academy of Sci—

ences, a natural history museum, have active pro-
grams for young people—and adults, too.

My own first experience with the junior mu-
seum idea came the evening of July 8, 1943, when
four boys from San Francisco’s Junior Recreation
Museum were guest speakers at a meeting of the
Audubon Association of the Pacific.

One of the boys, a member of the Rock Club,
told of field trips to collect rocks and minerals and
the later analysis, cutting, and polishing of speci-
mens in the Museum’s laboratory. Another boy
exhibited live snakes of a half dozen species and
told of their habitats, their qualifications as pets,
and of their work for Victory Gardeners as con-
sumers of garden pests. This boy, although only
seventeen years old, worked the following summer
as naturalist at one of San Francisco’s recreation
camps, high in the Sierra, where he successfully
conducted a nature study program for both chil-

Corner of a painting class in Washington. D. C.'s museum

- .

a
!' .’-.;

Photo by Jean Snow

NOVEMBER 1945

 

400 MUSEUMS OR CHILDREN

dren and adults. The third boy, a chubby ten-year—
old, spoke of the activities of a group interested in
astronomy and demonstrated star charts they had
made. The final speaker, fourteen years old, de—
scribed the work of the Model Airplane Club
constructing several hundred solid models of air—
craft for the Navy’s use in teaching identification.

All who heard these extemporaneous talks were
impressed by the unusual poise and ability of these
boys to express themselves. There was no trace
of adult condescension as the audience crowded
around the speakers after the program to ask
questions and look more closely at the exhibits.
Those who have had occasion to photograph junior
museums in action have also commented on the
unusual poise and cooperativeness of the young—
sters who take part.

Exactly what is a junior museum? It is first of
all a museum for children. It is a museum where
children do far less looking at exhibits than they
do participating in the making of exhibits, in pro-
grams, in the activities of clubs and classes. It is
an opportunity for a child to experience the pleas-
ure of achievement through work with other chil-
dren of similar interests.

The exhibits found in junior museums are
adapted to the needs of children in every detail
from the wording of the labels to the utilization of
the exhibits themselves. At the Junior Museum of
Palo Alto, California, a recent exhibit included a
Hopi Indian group, the cooperative work of sev—
eral groups of children whose names appear on
the case. The youngest children cut up newspapers
for papier-méiché; older members of the Clay
Modeling Clubs made pottery miniatures and hg—
ures. Even on
completion exhib-
its do not become
static. This one
was coordinated
with a weekly
story hour of In—
dian legends for
children of the
first four school
grades. At the
Children’s Muse;
um, Washington,
D. C., the event
of one Saturday
afternoon was “the
shoeing by Black—
smith Harry Rur—

 

“In. CH. J' "D

Photo by Dazft’d’chbfé

1

ton of the pony Dixie.’ At the same time an
exhibit “Cowboys and Indians” was on loan from
the National Gallery of Art.

At the Brooklyn Children’s Museum many ex-
hibits take on a peripatctic character. Enclosed in
a cellophane case a bird, an insect, a costumed doll,
a reproduction of a painting may be borrowed by
children who meet certain qualifications of achieve-
ment. Many Junior Museums and junior depart--
ments of adult museums send exhibits to schools,
playgrounds, and other agencies. For example,
the Museum of Northern Arizona at Flagstaff
circulates Treasure Chests of arts and crafts among
the Indian and public schools of the state.

“My mother did not like my rock collection be-
cause it took up too much room,” may be the be-
ginning of a junior museum exhibit in this day of
dwindling apartments and houses. Aquariums and
terrariums that would be decidedly unwelcome in
many city homes are cared for at the San Fran-
cisco Junior Recreation Museum by the children
themselves.

'Hikes and trips introduce children to the nat-
ural history and contemporary life and history of
their area. A Field Finders’ Club of first and
second graders at the Palo Alto Junior Museum is
interested in what it can find out-of-doors and
visits the local yacht harbor to look at boats, the
beach to collect marine plants and animals. A
Bird Club and a Nature Club offer field trips for
older boys and girls. As a technique for recrea-
tion alone such training is of value in an age when
large numbers of adults still normally think of

Sixth graders make things from clay

 

RECREATION

MUSEUMS 0R CHILDREN, 401

recreation as the lulling enjoyment of wheels going
round under them.

The activities of junior museums, as well as the
junior departments of adult museums, are organ-
ized into clubs or classes, and these are supple-
mented by motion pictures, illustrated lectures,
and programs often with museum member casts.
There may be garden clubs, camera clubs, puppet
clubs, explorers’ clubs, junior microscope clubs,
botany clubs, stamp clubs, Why, What, and How
clubs, music clubs, and magic clubs! At the San
Francisco Junior Recreation Museum a model air-
plane club calls itself The Pterodactyls, after the
flying prehistoric reptile of that name. The reward
for good work is the opportunity to choose an—
other model or the trophy at one of the numerous
competitions held within the club and with other
groups. An uninitiated visitor is bewildered by the
profusion of pusher type planes, rubber-powered
helicopters, Thunderbird towline gliders, Werle-
wind R.O.G.’s, B-24 Liberators, Curtiss P-40’s,
Grumman F-4F-4’s, Wildcats, Vickers Supermarine
Spitfires, Bell P—39 Airacobras, and North Ameri-
can P-51 Mustangs. Conversation in the work-
room and articles in the club’s paper, “The Third
Dimension,” reek with such terms as airfoil, tem—
plate, pylon, under camber, stabilizer, dihedral
angle—all on the tip of the tongue of nine—year—
olds and older boys alike.

Knowledge, stick-to-itiveness, firsthand observa-
tion, and originality all find recognition and re-
ward in clubs such as these. One interest fre—
quently leads to others. For instance it is only a
step from the building of model planes to other
building on scale. One member of The Ptero-
dactyls made a model of the Corpus Christi Church
in his community that was about to be torn down.
His preliminary work included measurements from
basement. to steeple, sketches, and mathematics to
be figured out. When completed, the model church
contained more than 5,000 pieces on a scale
throughout of one-fourth inch to one foot. His
achievement was written up by a fellow club mem—
her in The. Junior Naturalist, another publication
of the members of the San Francisco Junior Rec-
reation Museum.

Scouts working for merit badges come to junior
museums for help. School'classes are regular visit—
ors. Often a junior museum is the headquarters
for Junior Red Cross groups, Camp Fire Girls,
Garden Clubs, and other organizations.

The beginning of a junior museum may be

small. The first seven years of life of the .Palo

NOVEMBER 1945

Alto Junior Museum were spent in basements; yet
the number of visits grew from 4,342 in 1935 to
15,018 in 1942. Wherever junior museums flour-
ish it will be found that civic groups and outstand-
ing individuals in the community—educators, psy-
chologists, scientists, artists, and pediatricians—
have contributed to their development. The Lei-
sure Time Club of Palo Alto was closely asso—
ciated with the beginning of the Junior Museum in
that city. Until 1943, when this museum became
part of the City Department of Recreation, its
funds came entirely from private sources, and
these are still an indispensable part of its financing.
In 1941 the Margaret Frost Foundation of Palo
Alto provided money for a new building, the first
ever built for the purpose of a children’s museum.
Soon after, the Columbia Foundation of San Fran-
cisco provided funds for the addition of a Science
Wing and the salary of a science leader. '

One feels that the success of the junior museum
idea has depended in each case on the personality
of one or more persons, combining an ideal for
service to children with a genius for leadership.
One thinks of Miss Matilda Young, director of the
Children’s Museum of Washington, D. C., Mr.
Bert Walker, curator of the San Francisco Junior
Recreation Museum, Mrs. Josephine O’Hara of
the Palo Alto Junior Museum, Miss Anna Billings
Gallup, founder of the Brooklyn Children’s Mu-
seum, and many others. The skills and aptitudes
of every member of the staff must be of unusually
high order, combining a knowledge of arts, crafts,
or sciences with the ability to work effectively with
children. Unfortunately, it seems to be the lot of
most museums to be handicapped by limited funds
so that their staffs are small and underpaid. While
volunteer experts in many museums are making
invaluable contributions, who would similarly ex—
pect a school attracting hundreds of students to
function at its best with a faculty consisting of a
principal working singlehanded or depending on
volunteer help?

More money would make it possible for junior
museums to offer additional activities for all age
groups, particularly the older adolescent, the for—
gotten citizen of many recreation programs. Mu-
seum buildings could be kept Open evenings for
older employed adolescents and on Sundays and
holidays. A system of satellite neighborhood mu-
seums could be established, supplied with rotating
exhibits and material from the larger museum.
Even though only one room, branch museums would

(Continued on page 445)

From “Rags” to “Riches”

Department of Public

Recreation in Kenosha,
\Visconsin, organized the
Kenosha Little Theater
with twenty-five charter
members, men and women.
By the end of October, 1939, the theater had three
productions to its credit and a deficit of $300 on
its books. The Department of Public Recreation
absorbed the deficit, and the Little Theater kept on
giving plays. Five years later eighty-eight per-
formances of thirty-one major productions had
been presented before audiences totalling 75,000
persons.

This was something in the nature of a minor
miracle. Kenosha has an industrial population of
about 50,000 people who had grown to accept the
fact (although they didn’t like it) that if they
wanted to see a stage production of any merit they
must go to Chicago or Milwaukee. As is the nature
of miracles, however, this one has a good, sound
basis in careful planning, in faith in the project,
in enthusiasm for the job, and in plain, hard work.

IN NOVEMBER, 1938, the

Organization

The Theater is run by a Board of Governors
elected by the active membership on nominations
made from the floor at the
time of the annual meeting
held each spring. Each of
the eight governors holds
office for a two-year period,
four of them being elected
each year. In addition
there are the usual officers :
president, vice-president,
secretary and treasurer,
the latter always being the
Director of the Recreation
Department. He ,holds of—
fice without a time limita-
tion. The Board of Gov-
ernors holds regular
monthly meetings.

There are four classes
of membership—active,
honorary, sustaining, and

402

By P. H. PHELAN

Director' Department of Public Recreation

and BLANCHE BAKER

Promotional ChairmanI Kenosha Little Theater
KenoshaI Wisconsin

apprentice. Active mem-
bers must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must
“qualify by experience,
training, interest, and gen—
eral desirability in any of
the allied branches of the
legitimate theater.” Apprentice memberships are
open to members of the community of high school
age who show the same qualifications as active
members, but apprentice members may not vote or
hold ofiice. However, with the consent of his par-
ents or guardian and of the H igh School Principal
an apprentice member may take part in any of the
productions. Any person who purchases a season
ticket for all performances of the season may be—
come a sustaining member of the organization. The
active membership is I 35.

There are eight standing committees who help
carry out the theater’s program. These are mem-
bership, constitution and by-laws, press and pub-
licity, social, program, promotion, ticket, nomi-
nating. -

(Continued on page 444)

The Kenosha Little Theater produc-
tion of There Shall Be N0 Night

 

RECREATION

They Call 'Em as They See ’Em

THLETICS PLAYS a big part in
the life of Jefferson Junior

High School in Columbia,
Missouri. In addition to “varsity”
teams in basketball, football, and
baseball there is an extensive program of intra-
mural competition. Games and practices for games
fill hours of time before school, during the noon
intermission, and after school. Furthermore, in one
or the other of five gym classes every boy partici-
pates in calisthenics and in games designed to de-
velop control and balance and coordination. The
boys are enthusiastic about the program; 95 per
cent of the 350 boys enrolled have participated
during the past two years in some phase of the
program.

Part of the reason for this interest seems to be
found in an Officials’ Club which trains boys in
the seventh, eighth, and ninth grades in the rules
and techniques of the various sports and which, at
its highest level, administers the daily athletic
events. The club was started in 1944. When it was
first suggested some faculty members questioned
the advisability of this move. Heads were shaken
'in doubt over the need of such a student organiza-
tion and over the probability of its success. But
the experiment was begun with ninth grade boys.
By the end of the first semester there were so many
requests for membership from the eighth grade
that a section of the younger lads was added to the
older group. At the beginning of the second year
a seventh grade section was instituted. Each sec—
tion now holds its own meetings independently,
and a training program graduated in amount of
instruétion, has been worked out.

The members of the Officials’ Club are carefully
selected from volunteer applicants. The seventh
grade section is composed largely of boys who
know nothing of the rules and techniques of or-
ganized sports. Their previous experience in com—
petitive games has been gained, for the most part,
in sandlot teams which have their own conception
of the games they play and have made all sorts of
local adaptations of the accepted rules. These
adaptations are carefully noted by the athletic di-
rector and are discussed thoroughly and frequently
with the members of the club. They are pointed

out, too, in actual play, for these boys are, given, ‘

NOVEMBER 1945

By KENNETH G. MEHL
Athletic Director

Jefferson Junior High School
Columbia. Missouri

the opportunity of playing the
games at which they will eventu-
ally officiate. Emphasis is placed
on training in skills, on rules, and
on good sportsmanship. Hand in
hand with participation in games as players, these
boys from the first learn to officiate by doing it,
except in basketball where intricate playing rules
need a longer learning period.

Eighth grade “officials” continue with their
training as team members. To them, too, goes the
responsibility for “calling” seventh grade teams in
the least highly organized of the intramural com-
petitions, in those games where bad playing and
competitive habits are less likely to be formed by
beginners. Through group discussions and skill
sessions, through practice and blackboard demon-
strations, the boys of the club are innoculated with
rules, with changes in the rules, and with various
play situations that may be expected to come up.

Training for the ninth grade officials is intensi-
lied and supplemented by the use of standard rules
books and by commentaries on the rules in profes-
sional magazines. Current issues of such magazines
are kept in the libraries for the boys to use. The
best use of the books of rules is left to the judg-
ment of the individual. But each boy knows that
when testing time comes around he will need the
help he can get from the book.

These testing times are used as aids for officials
at intramural games and are designed to test
knowledge of the rules and the ability to apply that
knowledge to various probable situations. Hereon
hangs the whole success or failure of a program
for deve10ping student officials. No boy should be
assigned to work a game until the athletic director
(or other adult responsible for assignment) is en—
tirely satisfied that the youngster can administer
the game with competence, with efficiency, and
with complete fairness. Fairness is especially im-
portant. Where student help as game officials has
failed in the past it has failed usually because the
fairness of the official could be called in question.
During the two years that ninth grade boys have
been administering games at Jefferson High School
only one protest has been even considered. It was
never put in writing by the team manager and

(Continued on page 437)

403

Come Into My Moss Garden

OBBIES ARE INTERESTING to have
H about. They are worthwhile,

too, and their name is legion.
One pleasant thing about hobbies is that every—
body likes his own. As I do mine!

One of mine—for I have several —is a moss
garden, with lichens as a sideline, and not very
far to the side at. that. “What an odd hobby,” you
think. “Moss is moss, pretty and soft and green.
But what is there to collect? And isn’t lichen that
sort of grey scale that lives on trees? Who on
earth would want to collect that, even if you
could.” You won’t begin really to find out how
wrong you are until you begin to become a col-
lector. There are mosses and mosses—and a world
of difference between them. The tree lichens are
only a small part of a whole fascinating world of
plant life.

Lichens and mosses and their relatives, the
Hepatics, have a fascinating place in this living
world around us. They are believed to be the
triple link between land plants and water plants.

Possibly that trio was the first vegetation on the ‘

earth as land masses dried out of the primeval ooze.
As higher orders of plants, then animals and
man with his “civilization” developed, mosses and
lichens were crowded into smaller space until now
they must be sought after in their chosen habitats
and tranSplanted to make a collector’s garden.
Anyone may have a moss garden, be he dweller
in city, village, or coun-
try. There are mosses for
deeply shaded places, for

By INEZ BRASIER
Arpin, Wisconsin

 

garden would flourish? A slope com-
bining shade and sunshine would be
ideal, but never mind if you do not
have it, for there surely is a small corner where

mosses will grow.
Collecting mosses and lichens is really fun. Take

a walk across an old, rock-strewn pasture. You
will surely find there a number of lichen-covered
stones. The lichens will probably be grey-green or
rusty—grey, although their colors may be somewhat
brighter. They have no roots, no flowers, no
stems, no leaves. But if, perchance, they are in
fruit, you will see knobs or discs or cups standing
up in brilliant though minuscule contrast to the
parent plant. They will be just the treasures needed
for a sunny place. Handle them carefully so as not
to disturb them too much. And do not worry if
they dry up and seem to shrivel away. They will
turn green and grow with the first rain or with
watering, if you turn the sprinkler on them.
Tramps through the woods will yield moss-
covered stones and hummocks and lichens on
rocks. These will require moisture. Study the
growing conditions when you find them and then
place them in a spot as near like the original as
possible. It may be that you will find some beau-
ties on old logs and stumps. It will require a bit
more effort to locate these in the moss garden,
but the beauty resulting will more than repay the
necessary work. Anyway, Barrie, I believe, said
the things we do are not
work unless we think so.
Just last week I went

dry spots, wet spots, and
for warm, sunny spots.
They grow in soil rich
. with humus or in soil that
is lean and barren. The
right type can easily be
transferred to your chosen
garden. The plants are
so small they do not re—
quire much special care.
Is there a shady nook
on the north side of your
home buildings or under
the trees? Or a bright,
sunny spot where a rock

404

The author of this article has been an amateur
_botanist for many years. Hers is a sad storyI for
an allergy to the mosses and lichens that she
delighted to study caused her new-found hobby
to die aborning. Her collection now brings
pleasure and knowledge to high school students
who were heirs to her treasures. Her tale of col-
lecting and her "hints to the collectors" may do
more "missionary work" in bringing a new hobby
to people who had not before thought of it.

As a hobby it should be especiall rewarding
because there are many genera and hundreds of
species of mosses, living in land and water in all
humid climates. The collection of lichens may
well lead to related interests in their uses as

dyes and drugs or to the discovery of which of
them are edible like Iceland or Reindeer moss.

on a picnic with friends
whom I was visiting. We
climbed a very steep trail
up and up under tower-
ing trees. The path
rounded a great rock as
high as one’s head. Talk
of treasure trove! Here
is was, in very truth, on
that damp old rock -—
walking .ferns, lichens,
mosses of green velvet,
small rock plants I have
not yet identified. And

( Continued on page 438)

RECREATION

Choose Your Partner

0 MONEY? Nothing to do?
N Well, “skip to my Lou, my
darlin’l” "'

Folk dancing can,be a more fascinating recrea-
tion than the sophisticated entertainments money
can buy. A group of young people in Minneapolis,
who have formed a successful folk dance group,
have proved this to their own satisfaction.

Theirs is a spontaneous group without formal
organization, but its size has been steadily increas-
ing and it now has a membership of Fifty—four. At
each meeting several eager newcomers are added
to the veterans. Sometimes a lonely soldier or
sailor, longing for the informality and gaiety of
home, drops in. The newcomer may be a war
worker or oflice worker bored by a monotonous
task. Most often he is a student of the University
of Minnesota with very little money jingling in
his pockets who is looking for entertainment, exer—
cise, and social activity.

The group is known simply as “the folk dance
group” and it has no designated officers. The
leaders are young men and women who believe
enthusiastically in colorful, vigorous folk dancing.
Anyone can lead the group if he has a new dance
to show or is adept
at an old one.

W h e n t h e y
started their ac-
tivities four years
ago, the dancers
met wherever they
could Find a dance
floor. Sometimes
they assembled in
a settlement house,
sometimes in a
church or a recre—
tion center or a
home. Recently a
University of Min-
nesota church or-
ganization inter-
ested in recreation
for young people
has given them the
use of its rooms.

It is not diflicult

NOVEMBER 1945

By DOLORES MERCHANT
Minneapolis, Minnesota

to gain admittance to the dances.
The easiest way of getting asked
is to call one of the members, an
education student at the University. She extends
invitations freely to anybody who is really inter—
ested.

The parties are held every other Saturday night.
Newcomers are immediately greeted like old
friends, taken around the room and introduced
pleasantly and eHortlessly. A phonograph and a
pool of records insure a variety of music when
necessary, but much of the music is provided by
individuals who have special talents.

A Typical Evening

The music director of a near-by Negro settle—
ment house starts out playing the piano. Beneath
his agile fingers the keys suggest the sadness of
Negro folk songs, the patience of their spirituals.
Or he may swing into an impertinent dance. He
watches the dancers; if the dance is new he leaves
the piano and, humming the melody, darts out onto

(Continued on page 438)

A Swiss walking song

 

405

“Get in There and Paint"—l Did!

EADING THE ARTICLE “Get in
There and Paint” in RECREA-
TION (November, 1944 issue)

was my undoing. It made painting sound so easy

that even I, whose total artistic output to date con- i

sisted of unrecognizable choo-choo trains and ani-
mals drawn to amuse the children, was tempted
to try it.

Drawing, said the author, was not necessary.
That puzzled me. How could a barn, a tree, a
basket of fruit be put upon paper or canvas with-
out being drawn? So one afternoon I took pencil
and paper, looked out of the back window, and
with a “let’s see what hap-
pens” feeling tried to sketch
what I saw. I had no rules
to follow, having studiously
avoided all art classes in
school, but once an aquaint-
ance had said, “Start with the
background and work for-
ward.” Well, for the back-
ground there were tree tops
visible over a house, then a
roof and chimney, then the
upper part of a house, not flat as it might be
drawn for the children but with eaves overhanging
and part of one side showing. Next came the top
of a garage, and belOw that our picket fence with
shrubs growing in front of it. Finally, there were
scribbled lines for shrubs, a stretch of lawn and—
that’s the bottom of the page! Now let’s see——
why, it is a picture! My very first! What a sur-
prised and happy glow comes from this simple
accomplishment, and when the family see it they
are also astonished.

That was the beginning. Drawing was so much
fun that everything around the house, from pots
and pans to myself in the mirror (not so good),
had to be sketched. The eraser was as useful as
the pencil but the ends justified the means. Some-
one mentioned perspective, so I went to the library
and brought home books—books dealing with
sketching with pencil, charcoal, pen and ink, rules
on perspective, how to draw trees, animals, and
people. There were plenty of rules to be learned,
but as a result of reading and subsequent sketch-

ing I thought the secret lay not so much. in rules ’

406

By MILDRED REED
Sacramento, California

Mrs. Reed I'met her Waterloo" when she
read an article in RECREATION. She is now
a convert to a new hobby, and like many
another convert, wants to bring other
people into the fold! She adds an entic-
ing word to her article in case anybody
has been thinking that painting is too ex-
pensive a hobby for a "beer pocket-
bobk." For $|0 or $l5 you can buy ma-
terials for a long time of painting fun.

as in trying hard to draw what you
saw as you saw it. Rather than say
drawing is unnecessary for painting
perhaps it would be better to say that anyone can
draw.

A friend said, “You should try color.” That was
the next step, and a box of oil paints, brushes,
canvas, a palette appeared in the already cluttered
household. I didn’t touch them for almost a week.
The fresh white canvas looked rather terrifying,
in fact, imparted a feeling akin to stage fright.
And I had not the slightest idea as to how to go
about using the paints.

The first sketch was painted
on a small piece of cardboard.
“I’ll just practice on this,” I
thought, “and not waste the
canvas.” (Canvas was scarce,
the dealer had said.) Besides,
results wouldn’t matter on a
piece of cardboard. The scene
was a simple seascape from a
book— sky, ocean, rolling
field with a road leading to
the ocean. Lacking an easel
or drawing board I used the kitchen drainboard.

Caps on fresh new tubes are unscrewed—blue
for the sky with zinc white to lighten it, green,
burnt Sienna, Alizarin crimsonfcadmium yellow—
the clean palette is daubed all over with color,
stiff, unused brushes go to work, and Lo! the after-
noon has flown away on salt laden breezes! But
the picture is finished. I lean it against the wall
and back away for the survey. Sky, ocean, field
and road—why, it really is a picture! Not bad, if
it were framed. Framed? What about that nice
little frame in the basement? By the time my
husband comes home, the picture (framed) is
propped up on the piano.

“Where did you get the picture ?” he asks.

“I painted it,” say I, nonchalantly.

Since the cardboard sample was fairly success-
ful the same must be tried on canvas. Alas! This
was something else again. The dark background
of the cardboard had somehow helped to blend the
colors, but on the light canvas the blue was too
blue, the green too green, the paint too thick or too

(Continued on page 440)

RECREATION

A Town Forest for Troy

words “wooden” and “Troy”

is familiar even to those
whose knowledge of history is a
mixture of fact and fiction,
legend and half-remembered
dates.

But this story has nothing to
do with a horse, wooden or otherwise. It concerns
a group of down-east Yankees in Troy, Maine,
and their method of converting tax-delinquent land
into a profitable town forest. Only the opening
chapter can be written now, for the experiment is
little more than four years old. But it is a chapter
that promises much, both for Troy and for other
towns faced with similar problems.

THE ASSOCIATION between the

Forests for

Troy is no metropolis. The 1940 population
was 582 compared with almost 1,500 in 1850.
Much of its land is not suited to crop production
under present-day conditions, a fact suggested by
the steady decline in population. The town is
typical of many in central Maine, a beautiful place
in which to live if you can find some way to make
a living. But no scientific land-use analysis is
necessary to prove that most of the land should be
in trees.

There are men and women in Troy who realize
that all is not for the best when farm after farm is
abandoned or pays no taxes. And they did not
propose to wait for an Act of God, an Act of Con-
gress, or a wealthy summer resident to solve their
problems for them. They provided the initiative
and foresight necessary to translate ideas into pro—
ductive town property.

Some of these men got together as a local land-
use committee. A town forest, created from tax—
delinquent land owned by the town, seemed to
have some possibilities. They called on the Uni-
versity of Maine for technical help. When town
meeting time came in March, 1940, the citizens
voted to create a town forest area, following the
recommendations of the land-use committee.

There was snow on the north slopes and the
wind off Penobscot Bay was cold on the day in
early May of that year when the first planting was
made. The planters ate lunch beside a half-filled
cellar hole that marked a house site of many years
ago. They could not help but reflecton man’s‘ full

NOVEMBER 1945

By BRUCE B. MINER

This story of how ihe iownspeo-
ple of Troy' Maine, solved a
problem in economics is reprinied

by permission from American
November. I944.

cycle of endeavor as he tried to
make a living from this bit of
land.

First the land was cleared, and
a home was erected on the stout
granite foundation that still
stands. Then came the era of
farming, at a time when this farm
could compete with others. But the railroad went
through another town, the improved road was
miles away, and the thin layer of fertile soil, rough
and poorly drained, was not good enough to grow
paying crops. The hay market vanished. And
taxes, as always, came due every year, income or
no income.

Perhaps the house had been abandoned for
years, its empty windows staring out on the bushes
that began to cover the cleared fields. Or perhaps
a fire ended its lonely days quickly and mercifully.

Now the descendants of the men who cleared
these fields were putting the land back into forest.
And forest it is very likely to be for many years.

The original town forest area was about 963
acres, made up of fourteen farms and lots ranging
from seven to I 52 acres. There was a considerable
area of farm woodlots, and the usual amount of

pasture and hayland.

In that first year—194o— 55,000 trees were
planted. Employees of the town did this work,
ably assisted by 4-H Club members and boys under
supervision of the National Youth Administration.
That same year the town crew peeled seventy-
five cords of pulpwood and thinned and pruned
thirty acres to improve the stand. Three boys and
one man, representing four families, worked in the
forest all summer and fall. Employment for local
labor was one of the advantages foreseen when
the forest was established; now some citizens
object to using labor in the town forest when
private employers need every available man.

The next year, 1941, the town forest showed a
profit of $694, of which $63 was used for fire con-
trol and the purchase of two lire-fighting kits for
the use of all residents of the town. Sales of pulp-
wood, plugwood, and firewood amounted to $1,641.
The work of planting was continued, and 52,000
more seedlings went into the abandoned fields.

(Contoured on page 437)

Prelude

’1‘ IS A'GRAND, spring day

I And I stand a-top

A verdant, sunny hill.

The valley

Stirs my winter-chilly heart,

As I gaze

Upon its new vitality.
A mountain stream
Tumbles down its
Wayward path,

Freckling grumpy stones,
W’ith splashy laughter;

Teasing them to
Mirth and jollity.

Melting spots of snow

Weep big, sorry tears

To leave this lovely place
For one more summer.

Each old tree

Has dressed itself
In spring-green dress
That it might
\Velcome Easter
\Vith a glad,

Glad array.

And I see

All this stirring
Loveliness

In pretty harmony.
I see a Symphony.

Allegro.

The flute is the
Clear, cold
Mountain air.

It is clean air.

It is sweet air,
Around the
Mountain stream.

The crystalline snow
Is the piccolo,

\Vhite snow, piercing,
But melting with
Coming spring

And the trumpet
Call is the

“later clear.

It is the merry
Clarion

Calling the solemn
To play,

403

Calling the spring
From its °
Bedroom.

Scherzo

That gay, jesting
Crocus with its
Big, purple bell
Is a laughing,
Trilling oboe,
\Vith a taint of
Curious mystery——
That this world
Can be so big
When one tiny
Crocus

Is so very, very
Small.

Staccato notes

In French-horn
After-beats

Are the new-green
Tips

On the old—green
Firs..

And the pretty, tan cones

On the new-green boughs
Are of clarinet

Music with their

Color harmony —

High, sweet trills

Are their prickly, lacey
Fringe.

And the bright
Spring sun

Is the violin,
Falling in shafts
Of piercing light
Between the
Close, tall trees,
Turning drops of
Water into
Sparkling, bright
Diamonds.

IlIimtet

O, the cello is the
Shadow of falling
Day.

Slole- enclosing

Pastoral Symphony

The valley,
The mountains,
And deepening the sky.

The bassoon is
The crocus, again,
Getting ready

For the dark,

For rest to

Meet another day.
It is glad now
That it is tiny.
The crocus is

A jewel-—

The amethyst

Of Spring. ' -

And as shadows
Change the blue sky
To purple,

The stars o’er shine
Like a baritone

To play a
Counter-melody

To all that’s
Beautiful on earth.

It's night-time now,
Sweet, quiet, serenc,
Like the enfolding tones
Of a bass-viol,

Closing the eyelids

Of day,

Invoking tender sleep
And pleasant dreams.

Finale

And so this day passes,
And so shall tomorrow,
And the next day, too.
And this season’s
Symphony will
Become summer’s
Orchestration,

The Harmony of life
Always changing

\Vith the Crescendo
Of the wind

And Diminuendo

Of the night.

W” inning poem by Betty Pearson (17)
in Camp Fire Girls Tenth Annual

Poetry Contest

RECREATION

 

Books as Recreation

By VISCOUNT GREY of Fallodon. K. G.

ooxs ARE THE GREATEST and the most satis-

factory of recreations. I mean the use of books

for pleasure. Without books, without having
acquired the power of reading for pleasure, none
of us can be independent, but if we can read we
have a sure defence against boredom in solitude. If
we have not that defence, we are dependent on the
charity of family, friends, or even strangers, to
save us from boredom; but if we can find delight
in reading, even a long railway journey alone
ceases to be tedious, and long winter evenings to
ourselves are an inexhaustible opportunity for
pleasure.

Poetry is the greatest literature, and pleasure in
poetry is the greatest of literary pleasures. It is
also the least easy to attain and there are some
peOple who never do attain it. I met some one the
other day who did not care for poetry at all; it
gave her no pleasure, no satisfaction, and only
caused her to reflect how much better the thought,
so it seemed to her, could be expressed in prose.
In the same way there are people who care nothing
for music. I knew one Englishman of whom it was
said that he knew only two tunes: one was the
national anthem, “God Save the King,” and the
other wasn’t. \Ve cannot help these people if they
do not care for poetry or music, but I may offer
you one or two suggestions founded on my own ex-
perience with regard to poetry. There is much
poetry for which most of us do not care, but with
a little trouble when we are young we may find
one or two poets whose poetry, if we get to know
it well, will mean very much
to us and become part of

before we reach the age of thirty—five, that we must
find out the great poet or poets who have really
written specially for us; and if we are happy
enough to find one poet who seems to express
things which we have consciously felt in our own
personal experience, or to have revealed to us
things within ourselves of which we were uncon—
scious until we found them expressed in poetry,
we have indeed got a great possession. The love
for such poetry which comes to us when we are
young will not disappear as we get older; it will
remain in us, becoming an intimate part of our
own being, and will be an assured source of
strength, consolation, and delight.

There is another branch of literature to which I
must make a passing reference; it is that of phi-
losophy. I am bound to refer to it here because
I know two men, both of them distinguished in‘
public life, who find real recreation and spend lei-
sure time when they have it in reading and writing
philosophy. They are both living and I have not
their permission to mention their names, but as I
admire them I mention their recreation, though
with an admiration entirely untinged by envy. An
Oxford professor is alleged to have said that every
one should know enough philosophy to find that
he can do without it. I do not go quite so far as
that. When I was an undergraduate at Oxford I
read Plato because I was made to read it. After
I left Oxford I read Plato again to see if I liked
it. I did like it so much that I have never found
the same pleasure in other philosophical writers.
I hope you will not think
that I am talking Hippantly.

ourselves. Poetry does not
become intimate to us
through the intellect alone;
it comes to us through tem—
perament, one might almost
say enters us through the
pores of the skin, and it is
as if when we get older our
skin becomes dry and our
temperament hard and we
can read only with the head.
It is when we are young,

NOVEMBER 1945

From November II-I7, I945. America
will celebrate Book Week. It is especially
appropriate. therefore, to publish at this
time some of the things Viscount Grey had
to say about books in his notable address
on Recreation delivered at the Harvard

Union shortly after the first World War.

The National Recreation Association is
happy to announce that through the cour-
tesy of Sir Cecil George Graves permis—
sion has been received to reprint Viscount
Grey's entire address in booklet form.
Copies are now available from the Asso-
ciation at sixty, cents "each.

I am talking very seriously
—about recreation, and I
feel bound to mention phi—
IOSOphy in connection with
it out of respect to my
friends, but I do not lay
much stress upon it as a
means of recreation.

I come now to the main
source of literary recreation
in reading: the great books
of all time on which one

409

410 BOOKS AS RECREATION

generation after another has
set the seal of excellence so
that we know them certainly
to be worth reading. There
is a wide and varied choice,
and it is amongst the old
books that the surest and
most lasting recreation is to
be found. Some one has said,
“Whenever a new book
comes out read an old one.”
We need not take that too
literally, but we should give
the old and proved books
the preference. Some one, I
think it was Isaac Disraeli,
said that he who did not
make himself acquainted
with the best thoughts of
the greatest writers would
one day be mortified to observe that his best
thoughts are their indifferent ones, and it is from
the great books that have stood the test of time
that we shall get, not only the most lasting pleas—
ure, but a standard by which to measure our own
thoughts, the thoughts of others, and the excel-
lence of the literature of our own day. Some years
ago, when I was Secretary for Foreign Affairs in
England, when holidays were often long in coming,
short and precious when they did come, when work
was hard and exhausting and disagreeable, I found
it a good plan when I got home to my library in
the country to have three books on hand for recre-
ation. One of them used to be one of those great
books of all time dealing with great events or great
thoughts of past generations. I mention Gibbon’s
“Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” as an
instance of one such book, which had an atmos—
phere of greatness into which one passed right out
of the worries of party politics and official work.
Such books take one away to another world where
one finds not only pleasure, but rest. “I like large
still books,” Tennyson is reported to have said.
And great books not only give pleasure and rest,
but better perspective of the events of our own
time. I must warn you that Gibbon has been called
dull. It is alleged that Sheridan, a man of bril-
liant wit, said so, and when a friend reminded him
that in a famous speech he had paid Gibbon the
compliment of speaking of the “luminous page of
Gibbon,” Sheridan said he must have meant to say
“voluminous.” If you take the same view of Gib-
bon, find some other great author whom you do

 

host of great writers to
choose from. There are
plenty of signposts to direct
us to old books of interest
and value. They have well-
known names, and so they
stand out and are known
like great peaks in mountain
ranges of the human in-
tellect.

The second of my books
would also be an old book, a
novel which had been ap-
proved by successive gen-
erations. The third would
be some modern book,
whether serious or light, and
in modern books the choice
is not so easy. There are
many that are excellent, but there are many in
which we may find neither pleasure nor profit. If
our leisure is short we have not much time to ex-
periment. The less spare time we have, the more
precious it is, and we do not want to waste any
of it in experimenting with modern books which
we do not find profitable. It is worth while to
cultivate a few friends whose intelligence we can
respect and whose taste is sympathetic and who
read, and to get from them from time to time the
names of modern books which they have read and
found good. I have had too little time for reading,
but that my advice may not be entirely academic
I will recommend you, at any rate, one good
modern novel. Its name is “The Bent Twig,” the
authoress is Dorothy Canfield, and I can tell you
nothing except that she is an American, but the
book seems to me one of the best pieces of work
in novel writing that has happened to come under
my own observation recently. There are others,
no doubt, in plenty, and if you get half a dozen
friends who are fond of reading each to recom—
mend you one book as I have done, you will have
provision for a little time to come.

To conclude my suggestion about reading I
would urge this. Like all the best— things in life, the
recreation of reading needs a little planning. When
we have a holiday in prospect we make plans be-
forehand so that when the time comes we may
know exactly where we want to go, what we want
to do, how the holiday is to be spent, and have all
our preparations ready. If we do not do that the

(Continued on page 442)
RECREATION

not find dull. There is a l

. .- #1-

“Personal and Unofficial"

A Letter from Australia

LTHOUGH THE CONTINENT of Australia itself
A is about the size and shape of our United
States-— (upside down from our point of
view)-———there are only 7,000,000 people, who live
chiefly on the coastal fringes which are the most
fertile lands for farming. Part of the great central
p0rtion———at least a half of it-——is a dry, hot, and
bleak desert called the “Never—Never,” with no
rivers or other sources of water supply. Some of
the great plains have enough grass to support mil-
lions of cattle, and excellent sheep which are the
best wool-producers in the world. Some of the
rest of the land is fair for farming, but much is yet
to be developed.

Birds, such as the national one named kooka—
burra, whose call is rightly likened to that of the
laughing jackass, and another one called an emu,
which is somewhat like an ostrich, are prevalent.
Strange (to us) animals, the duck-billed platypus,
kangaroos, and koala bears, are to be seen in the
zoos and in the woods, called the “bush.”

Since the continent is in the southern hemis-
phere, the seasons are reversed from those of the
States and other countries above the equator so
that it is summer here from December to February,
fall from March to May, winter from June to
August, and spring from September to November.
The live mainland states seldom get very cold or
have snow, but the climate of the sixth island state
south of the mainland, Tasmania, resembles our
middle or northern area winters. Undoubtedly the
climate has an influence on the “easy-goingness”
of the people, making life very pleasant and giving
it more of a dream-like quality. The people are
most friendly and hospitable.

The cities do not have our speeded-up tempo
but on the whole are
modern, well laid out, with
parks and breathing spaces
at frequent intervals. Some
of the eastern cities are
rapidly becoming industrial-
ized, keyed up for war.

I have been away from
the States a year, and my

NOVEMBER 1945

From Recreation workers serving overseas
have come many interesting letters telling
of the customs and recreations of faraway
lands. We wish we might have shared them
all with you but this was not possible. We
are. however, bringing Australia closer to
us by these extracts from a letter which

reached us from Lieut. F. F. M. Gloss.
Welfarerand Recreation Officer, U.S.N.R.

present location is the most pleasant and attractive
place that I have ever lived in. The town itself is
really beautiful, well planned, near the sea, with
some hills in the distance, sunshine every day, and
a perfect climate. Living in the community is quite
a mixture of Dutch, English, Australian, Malayan,
Chinese and other Oriental peoples. The ancestry
of the Australians is principally English.

The English influence is powerful. Traditions,
customs, and undefinable mores govern attitude,
thought, and action. Currency consists of the
English pound, shilling and pence. The books in
the stores and libraries are, for the most part, pub-
lished in England. The terms “Royal,” “King’s,” °
and “His Majesty’s” are used as prefixes to many
things and events. As in England, they observe
tea time in the afternoon, adding another tea in the
morning at 10:00 or at any other time they may
choose. The evening meal is called “tea” rather
than dinner or supper. Practically all civilians take
time off for the holidays and week ends.

We in the Navy have excellent food. Civilians
are rationed as to food and cigarettes, and so they
are sometimes a little envious. They are wild about.
our candy and cigarettes, and quite intrigued with
our chewing gum, which the children call “Chewey,”
begging for it with outstretched hands and the
query, “Chewey, Yank?”

Most movies are American, and for those in
town it is necessary to get reserved seats. Much of
the social dancing is of a .folk type, but from the
American dances the girls have learned our styles
and do the Jitter-bug, Lindy-hop, and others.
There is one concert ballet company. I have found
quite a bit of interest in art and have bought some
paintings. ‘

Group singing is very
much enjoyed. They know
our songs and have songs of
their own which are greatly
liked by us, such as Bless
Them All, Waltzing M a—
tilda, and Why Were They
Born 50 Beautiful.

( C ontimwd on page 443)

411

What They Say About Recreation

that interest us, and, if we are to partici-

pate actively, those things in which we are
skilled. Everyone likes to do the things he does
best. There is much greater satisfaction in excell-
ing than in failing, particularly if we are sharing
our leisure with friends.”-—Hele1rPcudergost in
An Appreciation of Physical Education.

NW}; TEXD to choose in leisure those things

“As a Nation we are growing up—we are be-
coming more mature in our consideration of our
resources. We now see more of the interdepend-
ency and interconnections in the use of our re—
sources.”—Claudc R. Wickard, Secretary of Agri-
culture.

“Some day people will learn that material things
' do not bring happiness and are of little_use in mak—
ing men and women creative and powerful.”—
Dr. C harles P. Stcim‘nctz.

“Community replanning is the most profoundly
social of all human activities. To a greater or
lesser degree it involves everyone from the mayor
to the humblest street cleaner. No replanning
scheme, no matter how perfect, is likely to get very
far without the active and enthusiastic participa-

tion of the whole community.”-——Ha3cu Sise from
A Place to Live.

“1 will constantly seek the counsel of those who
are trained in the arts and sciences, for our well-
being is determined by how well our town is
p1anned.”-—-—From The Town B nilder’s Code.

“Let us teach them to put play into work, and
then be sure they put work into play, because the
dilly-dally kind of play, whether it is arts, or the
game of basketball, or swimming, or diving, or
tramping, or mountain climbing, or canoeing, has

no value.”-——Erust Hermann, Minneapolis Park
System.

Today recreation is a matter of more than park
space and playground equipment; it is participa-
tion in group enjoyment and group activity, de-
velopment of handicrafts and hobbies, community

enterprise, dancing, organized athletic events.—
1. PV. Stoker.

412

“It is thecore of my faith that the only work
worth doing is really play; for by play I mean
doing anything one knows with one’s heart in it.
. . . The final appreciation in life and in study is to
put oneself into the thing studied. And that is

playing.”-—-—H. Caldwell C oole.

“Play and competition have the mightiest influ-
ence on health as well as on the maintenance or
non-maintenance of our laws.”-—Plato.

“The character of a community is molded by
public taste. Parks and playgrounds are achieved
only when the need for them is felt. More shrub-
bery and flowers are cultivated and highways are
free from billboards when civic pride and good
taste become active in a community—From Art
lVithout Prairies, Pratt Institute.

“The administrator of public lands has a double
responsibility: to keep some wilderness in exis—

tence, and to cultivate its qualitative enjoyment.”
——Aldo Leopold in l’Vildemess Values.

“Education through the school, the church, and
community organization should utilize music as
one of the great means of wholesome recreation.”
—Bolton C orbally in Educational Sociology.

“Religion, morality, and knowledge being neces-
sary to good government and the happiness of
mankind, schools and the means of education shall
be forever encouraged.”—Ordinance of I 787.

. . 82'
“In times of peace, 1n hours of stress, at play
or in worship, east, west, north, south—every—

where —— sometime, the world sings. — From A
World of Song.

“Gardening for children is fundamental in train-
ing., The essential laboratory for all young learn-
ers is the school garden.”—Van Eerie Kilpatricl".

“For one swallow does not make a summer, nor
does one fine day; and similarly one day or a brief
period of happiness does not make a man

supremely blessed or happy.”—From the Ethics
of Aristotle.

RECREATION

 

    

Bedecked with

” ECK THE HALLS with
boughs of holly—and
mistletoe and ever-

greens. Put a bright poin-

setta on the window sill and

a Glastonbury thorn by the

mantlepiece. Trim a Christ-

mas tree of fn‘ or pine, hemlock or spruce
and blow on the Yule Log’s flame till it is
bursting and roaring up the chimney. Let’s

get going! Tempus is up to its old tricks

and Christmas is coming and there’s decorating to

be done.”

“Well, sure, that’s a fine idea. Do let’s get going.
But how about this decorating business? When it
comes right down to it, why use poinsettas and
holly and evergreens and mistletoe and Glaston—
bury thorn? Why not winter grasses from the
nearest meadowsaor cattails out of the swamp?
And why is a Yule Log any different from any
ordinary log that you throw on any ordinary lire?
And, please, don’t tell me it’s tradition. Of course,
it’s tradition, but what began the tradition?”

By that bit of imaginary dialogue hangs a tale
that .might come in right handy for recreation
leaders thinking about “center—wide” activities for
the Christmas season. The reasons that lie behind
those traditions are the stuff which programs can
he made of. Story hours and craft sessions can
draw upon the legends. They can be dramatized
or used as material for puppet shows. They will
lend more interest and understanding to some of
the carols that will be sung (we hope) as accom—
paniment to all the center’s activities throughout
the Christmas season.

The Legends

The Yule Log. The Yule Log dates back to the
pre—Christian era in England. The Celtic races
celebrated the feast of Houl or Hioul in honor of
the sun’s returning strength at the time of the
Winter solstice. The Druids at that season of the
year were accustomed to choose a log which was
blessed with great ceremony and rekindled each
year. As a matter of fact the Yule Log, in their
belief, was to burn perpetually, each year’s kindling
coming from last year’s log.

The Yule Log was kept in the customs of the

NOVEMBER 1945

Bays and

Rosemary

country people of
England long
after its original
pagan signifi—
cance was forgot-
ten by them, and
there were many superstitious beliefs that grew up

about it. But it was not until the “merrie Eng-
land” of the Tudors that the festivities connected
with “bringing in the Yu‘le” reached their height
of merriment. In those days the Log was often the
base of such a tree as the apple because its wood
was long burning. “The Yule Log must be the
stoutest and the greenest tree in all the deep for-
est,” they said. It was cut with ceremony and
brought into the great hall on Christmas eve. It
was dragged in, rather, by two or more men who
tugged mightily on strong ropes to get it to the
fireplace. For in those days a fireplace in the great
hall was no insignificant piece of masonry, nor
could an ordinary log begin to fill it. The Yule
Log was laid carefully on the bed of ashes and
kindled with a brand of last year’s log preserved
for that purpose. And woe betide the household
where the blaze went out during the night, for it
would surely have ill luck throughout the year.
Sometime during this period the poet Herrick
wrote a song about the Yule Log:

 

Come bring, with a noise,

My merrie, merrie boys,

The Christmas Log to the bring.
While my good dame, she

Bids ye all be free

And drink to your heart’s desiring.

\Vith last yeere’s Brand

Light the new Block, and

For good success in his spending,
On your psalteries play,

413

414 BEDECKED WITH BAYS AND ROSEMARY

That sweet luck may
Come while the log is a treending.

Christmas Tree. There are many legends about
the Christmas tree. Perhaps none has more drama
than the tale of St. Boniface who, in the eighth
century, set out to convert the Germans to Christi-
anity. These Germans were a warlike folk. Their
chief god was Thor, the Hammerer, to whom the
oak was sacred. On a winter night Boniface came
upon a group of men and women and children
preparing to sacrifice one of their number to Thor.
The altar stood, ready for the rites, at the foot of
an oak tree. Boniface rescued the lad and split the
oak tree in two. Then he turned to the crowd——
already more than half terrified at this creature
who could taunt Thor with impunity—and point-
ing to a little straight fir tree near-by said to them,
“This, the tree of the Christ child, should be the
sign of your living, not by sacrifices but by
service.”*

Perhaps, one of the best loved of the songs about
the Christmas tree is the lovely Oh Ta’nnenbaum,
Oh Tannenbaum which also comes to us from
Germany.

The Holly. The use of holly, too, has roots in
pagan times. The Romans celebrated the Satur-
nalia at about the time that we now celebrate
Christmas. Saturn was god of agriculture and the
Romans believed that he made the holly so that
there would be something to bloom in beauty
throughout the season when everything else was
.brown and dead. And so, at the feast of Satur-
nalia, the Romans gave their friends twigs of holly
for good luck.

An old carol from England names the holly as
the chief plant in the woods.

The holly and the ivy

When they are both full grown

Of all the trees that are in the wood
The holly bears the crown.

O the rising of the sun

The running of the deer

The playing of the merry organ
Sweet singing in the choir.

The holly bears a blossom

As white as lily flower

And Mary bore sweet
Jesus Christ

To *be our sweet
Saviour.

 

" For other legends of the Christmas
Tree see roor Christmas Fact: and
Fonda: by Alfred Carl Hottes.
A. '1‘. etc la Mare Co., Inc., New
York. 1937.

A great many of the legendary origins of
our Christmas customs have become -so
overlaid with the patina of years that they
are all but lost for most practical purposes.
Here are a few of them restated to explain
the reasons that lie behind our choices of
some of the Christmas decorations we tra-
ditionally choose to "deck the halls.'I

The holly bears a berry

As red as any blood
And Mary bore sweet Jesus Christ
To do poor sinners good.

And holly bears a prickle

As sharp as any thorn

And Mary bore sweet Jesus Christ
On Christmas Day at morn.

The Mistletoe. The mistletoe, too, was held
sacred by the Druids, but it is from Scandinavian
mythology that our custom derives. In the Scan-
dinavian pantheon, Frigga, or Freyja, was goddess
of love. She armed her son, Balder, with a charm
with which she thought to make him immortal since
it would secure him against injury from anything
deriving its life from air, fire, water, or earth. But
Frigga had forgotten the mistletoe which lives by
none of these things, and from it the evil and
jealous Loki fashioned an arrow. Helder, the
Blind, took the dart and threw it at Balder who fell
to the ground, sorely hurt. Frigga’s tears for her
stricken son dropped upon the mistletoe and be-
came its wax-white berries. The story has a
happy ending, for all the gods combined their
knowledge and their potiver to restore Balder’s
health, and Frigga decreed that never again could
the plant be used for evil ends. Because of her
will, Viking enemies meeting in the forest beneath
a mistletoe-bearing tree laid aside their weapons
and declared a truce until the next day. This is
probably the remote ancestor of our custom of
hanging a mistletoe bow over the doorway. Every-
one who passes beneath it will bring into the house-
hold only peace and goodwill and that pledge is
sealed with the kiss of friendship.

Glastonbury Thorn, Poinsetta, Rosemary and Bay.

About the hawthorne and poinsetta, the rose-
mary and the bay, the legends that have arisen are
Christian in origin. °

The thorn was brought to England by that
Joseph of Arimathea who has wandered in and out
of Christian legend through all the twenty cen-
turies of its enduring. Not least cherished of the
stories about him is that of the Glastonbury thorn.
When Joseph came to Britain to teach Christianity
he brought with him his
staff. In England he found
his way to Glastonbury and,
thrusting his staff deep in
the ground, settled to the
task of building, of “twisted
twigs,” the first church in

(Contimwd on page 436)

RECREATION

 

I

Toward a Community Christmas

HIS YEAR—this year eSpecially, when “Peace
Ton Earth” sounds at least a little less hollow

than it has been sounding of late; when the
boy down the street is “home for Christmas” for
the first time in three years and glad to be there,
thank you; when there will probably be fruit cake
and there will almost certainly be turkey again;
when there might even be a “white Christmas,” at
least in some places—this year we give you, ladies
and gentlemen, a community Christmas festival!
We give you a festival planned in advance. The
church and the woman’s club and the community
center and the Y.W.C.A. and the school will, in
this most excellent of festivals, order their private
festivities on such a scale and at such a time that
they will contribute to the over-all community pro-
gram. For all the members of all the groups will
save the largest part of their festival energies for
a grand finale in which the whole community will

participate.

What Kind of a Festival?

What will it be———this festival? What form will
it take? Each community must decide that for
itself according to its own customs and its own
available resources. But it is important that every-
body have a chance to participate fully and freely;
that everybody have a chance to contribute some-
thing to the whole; that everybody have a chance
to take pride in what his community can do and in
his part in the “doings.” There must be a' place
for the children and the grandparents, for teen-
agers and middle-agers and “young adults.” It is
important that the community festival be inclusive
and not exclusive.

Courtesy Metropolitan Museum of Art

.. 4- a
I- O
I
.‘u
DI... p.
., t
. , (-

" d' o.
.l or. f 9‘
'r 91“”? .

‘J‘o.

 

NOVEMBER 1945

Festival Materials

No, we won’t tell you that this or that is THE
festival plan for your community. But we will
(and herewith do) lay out for your inspection
some materials from which to build your own
plans. They can be combined or rearranged or re-
written or used as models or as springboards for

ideas of your own.

There are, of course, other materials available
from other sources. But, being unable to cover all
the descriptions of Christmas celebrations that
have been dreamed up in the course of years,*
we are content to stick to our own last—or at

least to our own files.

The Christmas Book. The Christmas Book is a
sort of a grab bag for ideas in itself. It has a
little of this and a little of that—each little ready
and waiting to be put to use as a basic idea for a
festival plan. For instance, there is a section de-
voted to the use of the créche in many different
countries. Another section is concerned with
Christmas customs common in countries of Europe,
in Brazil and in Mexico. There are stories, too, of
the origin of the Christmas tree and legends about
other Christmas decorations and an account of a
community festival in a small Wisconsin town.
There are suggestions for making Christmas cards
and decorations and Christmas foods. There are
words and music for some unusual carols and a

 

' In another place in this issue of Racuanox we have dared to
recommend a few drama programs from the enormous lists of
Christmas plays available. See page 417.

415

416 TOWARD A COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS

suggestion for a way to use them. And there is a
beautiful ceremonial for the hanging of the Christ—
mas greens. There is a recipe (complete) for “A
Christmas Revel.” And there is a short playlet for
small children.

Plays. Festivals and Pantomimes. Three hundred
years and more ago many an English county de-
veloped its own version of the St. George play, for
St. George has been England’s patron saint since
the Crusades and his legendary feat of killing the
dragon is everywhere celebrated during the Christ-
mas season. Two versions of the St. George play,
the Mnmmer’s Play and the Oxfordshire Saint
George have been combined for a Christmas pro-
gram, titled The Saint George Play. The short
production can be put on effectively and easily and
with relatively little rehearsal. It is a rollicking
farce suitable for production by youngsters and
oldsters alike.

Joy to the World, on the other hand, is a rever-
ent and serious pageant of the Nativity designed
especially to be used in a church. Passages from
the Gospels according to St. Luke and St. Mat-
thew are interwoven with familiar carols and pan—
tomimes into a beautiful and solemn ceremony.

The most recent addition to this list of Christ-
mas dramatic material is Festival of Light which
will be found on page 420 of this issue of REC-
REATION.

If the community wants to combine music and
drama, two bulletins will provide material and
ideas for a program of carols that is somewhat out
of the ordinary.

A Christmas Carnival of Carols and Panto-
mimes suggests a way for those who would go a-
caroling to give pleasure to the eye as well as to
the ear. Stories of the Christmas Carols contains
more background materials from which additional
pantomimes may be devised.

Christmas is one of the few occasions customa-
rily celebrated at the samé time in many ways by
many different peoples. Customs and legends that
have grown up in other lands have enriched our
own Christmas tradition. Christmas Customs and
Legends Around the World puts some of these
customs into a frame of words and pantomime that
may be used “as is” or adapted to fit special com-

munity needs or taken as a pattern for a program
“built at home.”

Fairs and Parties. Christmas Fairs is a “how to
do it” bulletin that might well start the community
thinking about ways to swap the “work of their

heads and their hands” in a day or a week that can
be constructive and instructive as well as just
plain entertaining.

If the community is, rather, party-minded, there
are parties galore to choose from or to use as pat—
terns or to combine into one gigantic party. Here
are a few of them : A Community Christmas Party,
Dichens’ Christmas S pirit, A Christmas Party,
Christmas Suggestions for Children, A Polar
Christmas Party, Deck the Halls.

Decorations. Many communities make a festival
out of collecting and preparing Christmas decora-
tions or of making Christmas cards and wrapping
papers. Several bulletins have something to say
on these scores. Cutting Christmas Greens is a
good background guide, for it answers the ques-
tions H ow? and W hat? with authority and direct-
ness. Thanksgiving and Christmas Decorations
from Garden and lVoods gives “play by play de-
scriptions” of decorations that can be made from
materials to be had for the picking plus a little
paint, odds and ends of string or ribbon, and a few
pleasant hours of work. There are bulletins, too,
on making Christmas tree ornaments, on making
Christmas cards and wrapping paper, and on mak-
ing Christmas novelties.

In Conclusion

And so—here’s to a real community Christmas
festival compounded of your imagination and your
community’s traditions and customs! This busi-
ness of doing things together—by town or rural
area or neighborhood in a great city—adds some—
thing extra to the Christmas spirit, and if the
planning is intelligently cooperative, takes away
some of the overload of physical strain that so
often is the result of energies scattered in too many
(lirections.*

Some Pertinent Christmas Articles in Past Issues
of RECREATION

W hen Christmas Comes—Nov. 1935
A City Celebrates Christmas in Drama—Dec. I939
ilfodernising the Christmas Legend—Dec. 1939
Christmas Caroling on W heels—Nov. 1940
I t Happened Last C hristmas—Nov. 1940
Christmas Comes to Texas—Nov. 1940
Christmas in the C ommnnity—Nov. 1941
Christmas in Sweden—Dec. 1941
Lucia Dagen—Dec. 1941

(Continued on page 441)
.—....._...L__

' For prices of materials cited see the inside back cover of this
issue of Recnunon.

RECREATION

NI—

———-+I—1Pm— I 1-—

A
Play

for

Christmas?

l-IE HOUSE LIGHTS go down. The buzz of con-
Tversation subsides to a whisper, to silence. The

music chosen for the occasion begins. The cur-
tain rises on another Christmas production. If,
when the curtain comes down again, audience and
participants alike are to go satisfied away, there
must have been careful thought given to the selec—
tion of the play as well as to its preparation for
production.

Rule I in choosing a script for Christmas is,
Keep I t Simple. There are so many pulls in so
many different directions at Christmas that few
people have the time or the strength to spend on
elaborate productions—unless, of course, the play
is to be the whole of the Christmas celebration for
a community, to which case this article has no ap—
plication! In general, simple costumes and set-
tings if they are carefully chosen for the right color
and the right line, are highly effective.

It is important, too, to select a play that will
blend with the over-all program planned for the
community or add needed variety to it. Factors
to be considered are musical and dramatic re—
sources; time and place of the festival; what will
precede and follow the play, or, alternatively,
whether it is to begin or climax the whole pro-
gram. In general, the list which follows has been
chosen with some of these factors in mind. It
includes royalty and non-royalty plays, plays for
large casts and plays for small ones, plays that
need music and plays that don’t, old plays and new
plays, religious plays and secular plays. All of
them can be done simply and easily if the director
will divorce his mind from elaborate descriptions
of costumes and set that may be contained in the
script and put his imagination and ingenuity and
the imagination and ingenuity of the pe0ple of the
community to work on adapting the words and the

actions called for to the capacities of the neigh—
borhood.

NOVEMBER 1945

 

TEE WSLENIE E©ULBIH

0W I'm My“ «7’

W4! "(A more arm 373M gar/“2w

A Word About Royalty

Generally speaking the best plays require the
payment of royalty. There are, of course, good
non—royalty plays. And equally, of course, there
are many royalty plays that are very bad indeed.
However, taking it by and large, there are more
good royalty plays than there are “budget” or
“free” plays. Some of the publishers will, on pc-
casion, reduce the royalty fee for groups that are
genuinely unable to pay it. It is always worth
writing to the publisher if you are in this group.
Write your letter as far in advance of production
dates as possible and include in it a full statement
of your financial situation and the conditions of
your production. Then wait until you hear from
the publisher before you go to work!

Play List

Miracles. Moralities and Masques: Ancient and

Modern

The York Nativity, by John F. Baird. In Plays for
the College Theater, edited by Garret Leverton. Samuel
French, 25 “West 45th St., New York 19. $3.

Miracle play based on the York Cycle.

Christmas M z'racle Play, by Virginia Clippinger. 9 men,
2 women, chorus. In Six Altar Plays. Walter H. Baker
Company, 178 Tremont St., Boston, Massachusetts. No
royalty. Scripts 75 cents.

A short nativity play adapted from medieval texts.

417

418 A PLAY FOR CHRISTMAS?

Everyman, edited by Esther Willard Bates. Large cast.
Walter H. Baker Company. No royalty. Scripts 50 cents.

Old English “morality.”

Christmas Spirits, by Leslie Hollingsworth. 5 men, 2
women, extras. In 100 Non-Royalty One-Act Plays,
edited by \Villiam Kozlenko. Grecnberg: Publisher, 400
Madison Avenue, New York 17. $3.

A Christmas masque.

The Saint George Play ( M P 56) Six characters. (Farce)
No royalty. Scripts 10 cents. National Recreation As-
sociation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.

A combination of the M nmmer’s Play and the
Oxfordshire St. George Play.

The Christmas Guest, by Constance D’Arcy Mackay.
Eight characters. Samuel French. Royalty $2. Scripts
30 cents.

Plays with Music

Gloria, by Katharine Kester. 11 men, 4 women, extras.
Samuel French. Royalty $5. Scripts 35 cents.

TA choral drama.

The Nativity, arranged by Rosamund Kimball. 11 men,
1 woman, extras. Samuel French. No royalty. Scripts
35 cents.

An arrangement of the Biblical stories of the
Nativity.

An Empty Gesture, by Mary Graham Lund. 5 men, 4

women, carolers. In 100 Non-Royalty One-Act Plays,
edited by William Kozlenko. Greenberg: Pubisher. $3.

A Christmas comedy with music.

A Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomimes ( MP
296). Flexible cast. National Recreation Association. No

royalty. Scripts 10 cents.

The Legend of the Orb, by Essex Dane. Flexible cast.
Walter H. Baker Company. ROyalty $5. Scripts 35 cents.

A Christmas miracle.

Plays without Music: Religious and Secular

Suthumberland’s Yule-Tide. 20 men, 20 women, extras.
Samuel French. Royalty $10. Scripts 50 cents.

A festival for the whole community.

The Boy with a Cart, by Christopher Fry. 7 men, 6
women, extras. Walter H. Baker Company. Royalty $5.

Scripts 50 cents. ‘
A play about St. Cuthbert written for the village
of Coleman’s Hatch, Sussex, England.

"And Myrrh,” by Dorothy Clarke. 6 men, 5 women, 1
child. Walter H. Baker Company. No royalty. Scripts
35 cents.

A legend of the wise men.

The Man Who Gave Us Christmas. No royalty. Wormans
Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York 22. Scripts
25 cents.

A dramatized story of the life of St. Luke.

Unto Bethlehem, by Lucy Wetzel McMillin. 4 men, 2
women. In 100 Non-Royalty One-Act Plays, edited by
William Kozlenko. Greenberg: Publishers. $3.

A miracle wrought on the first Christmas.

White Thorn at Yule, by Marion Holbrook. 1 man, 1

woman, 1 boy. \Valter H. Baker Company. No royalty.
Scripts 25 cents.

A story of the Christmas flowering of the thorn.

Why the Chimes Rang, by Elizabeth McFadden. 3 men,

1 woman, extras. Walter H. Baker Company. Royalty
$5. Scripts 35 cents.

One of the “modern classics” for Christmas.

On Christmas Eve, by Constance D'Arcy Maclcay. 11
characters. Samuel French. Royalty $2. Scripts 30 cents.

Fantasy for young people.

What Men Live By, dramatized by Virginia Church.

7 men, 3 women, 2 children. Walter H. Baker Company.
Royalty $10. Scripts 35 cents.

A dramatization of the famous story by Tolstoy.

The Gift of Love, by Beulah Folmsbee. 9 men, 2
women, extras. In Guhi, the Moon Bay. Harcourt, Brace
and Co., Inc., 1928. 383 Madison Avenue, New York 17.

$2.

A sensitive and imaginative frame for the story of
the nativity.

Christmas Carol, dramatized by G. M. Baker. 6 men,
3 women. Walter H. Baker Company. No royalty.

Scripts 35 cents.

A dramatization of Dickens’ tale of Scrooge and
Christmas. Plays about an hour.

Bird’s Christmas Carol, dramatized by Alden Carlow.
2 women, 4 boys, 4 girls. Walter H. Baker Company.
Royalty $3. Scripts 35 cents.

La Posada, by Agnes Emilie Peterson. 6 or 7 men,
5 or 6 women. Dramatists Play Service, Inc., 6 East
39th St., New York 16. Royalty $5. Scripts 35 cents.

A play about Christmas in Mexico.

Dramatic Festivals with Narrator and Pantomime

Christh Pageant of the Holy Grail, by W. Russell
Bowie. 12 to 15 characters and a reader. Walter H.
Baker Company. No royalty. Scripts 25 cents.

An episode told by a reader and tableaux about
King Arthur and the Knights of the Round
Table.

Festival of Light. 3 narrators and flexible cast. Na-
tional Recreation Association. No royalty. Scripts 10
cents.

An easy-to-produce program of Christmas in
many times and places done with narrators and
pantomime.

RECREATION

 

Children's Christmas Program

HURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1944, 3 :00 RM. New
York’s City Center was almost bursting at the
seams with men and women and children——
especially children—come to the first performance
of the Children’s Christmas Story. Set and lighted
by Robert Edmund Jones, with music by a full
symphony orchestra under the baton of Leopold
Stokowski, this performance was no ordinary pag-
eant of Christmas. Yet so simple was the idea, so
pure and fine the line, so uncomplicated the exe-
cution of the pictures, that any group—lacking
Robert Edmund
Jones and Leopold
Stokowski, but hav-
ing the wisdom and
the courage not to be . i
too elaborate—could
produce in parish
house or grange hall,
little theater or com-
munity center or
school auditorium an
effective pantomime
based on this model.
The curtain rose
that afternoon on a
stage bare except for
a ramped platform
up center. Two
groups of choristers
took their places ——
right and left—down
stage. Mr. Stokow-
ski, from the orches-
tra pit, requested the
audience to join the
choir in three famil-
iar carols. When the

last strains of Silent
Night had faded the
orchestra began
Bach’s mighty Christ-
mas music.

Hard upon the first
section of the Bach a
voice read the story

of the Annunciation.

The voice finished
and the drapes behind

NOVEMBER 1945

 

Courtesy S on Francisco Recreation Commission

the ramped platform parted on a rigid white cyclo-
rama painted with light, a background for Mary
at prayer. While the Angel of the Annunciation
crossed the stage with the heavenly message, the
choir sang a traditional Christmas carol. The pan—
tomime over, the orchestra took up the second part
of the Bach.

This procedure of following parts of Bach’s
music played by the orchestra with readings from
the King James version of the Bible, pantomime,
and carols continued through the familiar episodes
of the journey to
Bethlehem, the Shep-
herd’s vision, the
manger in Bethle—
hem, the procession
of shepherds and
Wise Men to the
manger, the adora—
tion of the shepherds
and the presentation
of the gifts by the
Magi to the final
scene of the program
“the heavenly host
praising God and say-
ing, ‘Peace on Earth,
Good Will to Men.’ ”

Two things set this
pageant apart from
others —— its extreme
simplicity and the
beautiful blending of
orchestra, speaking
voice, pantomime,
and chorus. The
light-painting of
Robert Edmund

Jones was magnifi-
cent and exciting.
Stokowski’s music
richer and fuller be-
cause it was “live”
rather than “can-
ned.” But, essentially,
here was a transla-
tion of the New

( Continued on
page 442)

419

in quiet waiting for the signal—the sign that

the long waiting is over. Listen! (Fame)
You can hear the quiet—feel the throat muscles
tensed to shout—the strain of the shout of joy
held in check against the signal.

N ARRATOR I: The world is still tonight, hushed

NARRATOR II: Nor race, nor creed, nor age, nor
sex is bar to that expectancy. In all the land
each man and woman, boy and girl—each after
his own custom—prepares the feast—the cele—
bration of joy—the festival of gifts.

NARRATOR III: What is the feast that is made?
How is it called? \Vhat is its age? What does
it celebrate?

NARRATOR I: It is known by many names in many
lands. It is as old, perhaps, as mind in man. Its
beginnings are hidden in the lost shadows of
ancient centuries.

NARRATOR II: When the earth was younger by
two thousand years men lived in closer kinship
with the natural world. They watched the sea-
sons narrowly, for by the seasons they were fed
and clothed and housed. They marked with,
solemn ceremony and with wild rejoicing the
time of winter solstice—the end of the dark and
the cold—the end of the long night of winter—
the coming of light—the promise of spring.

PANTOMIME I: Four men in white robes hold be-
tween theirn a white cloth. In its center is a clump
of mistletoe. A fifth man also in white robes
holds a golden knife. He lifts the mistletoe, dips
it into a bowl of water, breaks the mistletoe into
small pieces.

N ARRATOR III : In England before the Romans
brought their civilization to set in flight the hon-
ored customs of the Celts, the Druid priests held
sacred—the symbol of everlasting life—the plant

that we call mistletoe. Through the long winter _

it grew, and flourished its green and white on

.oak trees long since drained of sap and seeming
dead.

NARRATOR II: At the time of the winter solstice,
robed in white garments, lighted by flaring
torches, the priests moved in solemn procession
through the great oak groves, somber and dull
in their winter sleep. The chief priest, with his
golden knife, cut a clump of mistletoe, dr0pped
it into a white cloth (for the sacred plant must
not touch earth), plunged it into fresh, cold
water, and broke it into bits—one for each per-
son in the watching crowd, that all might par-
take of the good fortune that the mistletoe
promised for the coming year.

420

Fest

A Progr

NARRATOR III: In other lands, on all the moun-
tain tops, great pyres were laid, awaiting the
moment when swift runners from the valleys
would set them blazing in a great salute of fire
to the returning light.

AUDIENCE : C arol

NARRATOR I: There is another custom old in time
but always new—renewed each year in time-
honored observance.

NARRATOR II: Hanukkah—Feast of Lights—The
Feast of Dedication.

NARRATOR I: Centuries have come and gone since
Judas Maccabeus—called the Hammer—drove
from the Temple the Roman invader who had
deilled the altar with sacrifice to false gods. In
all the Temple, then, there was but one small
cruze of consecrated oil. One cruze—but it
sufficed, for the Lord gave it increase for eight
days until new oil could be prepared and con-
secrated.

NARRATOR III: So unto this present—in com-
memoration of that purification of the Teniple
‘ when the little oil—by a miracle—was sufficient
unto the needs of the many in the service of the

 

RECREATION

Light
Christmas

Lord—the candles in the Menorah are lighted——
by all the company of Jewry—one each day for
eight days.

PANTOMIME II: On a table center stage is a can-
dlestick with eight candles. A man is lighting the
last candle. At stage right a family group ex—
changes gifts.

XARRATOR II: “Blessed be the Lord our God,
King of the Universe, who has sanctified us by
Thy commandments and enjoined us to kindle
the Hanukkah lamp.”

NARRATOR III : And while the lights burn there is
feasting and much joy and the giving of gifts
for the lights that shone again in the Temple
even as the sun’s warmth returns to the earth.

A UDIENCE: Carol

\

N ARRATOR I: There is a space in time between the
years of Judas Maccabeus and this still, hushed
night that waits upon the sign. And in that
space a thousand customs rise in many lands, all
tempered by the climate and the soil, the history
and the habit of the folk, but honoring— all —
each year — this one occasion.

 

C ourtcsy Recreation Department, Denrboru, Mich.

NOVEMBER 1945

N ARRATOR II: Far to the North the Swedish folk

await the day with gala preparations.

PANTOMIME III: A platform slightly raised to sug-
gest a float is center stage. A young girl is
throned on the upstage end of the platform. She
is dressed in white, and on her head she wears a
crown of green leaves in which candles are stuck
at intervals. At her feet are seated several small
'boys dressed as gnomes. Behind the float are
seven older 'boys with white cassocks over their
clothes. Each boy wears on his head a conical-
s-ltaped hat covered with large stars cut out of
’blue paper. Each hat has a full tissue paper tassel
on its peak. The lead boy carries on a pole a large
six-pointed star. Each point of the star has one
of the signs of the Zodiac painted on it. A boys’
chorus offstage sings Christmas carols softly
under the third narrator’s words.

NARRATOR III: The feast of Santa L‘ucia, brave
victim of the Emperor Diocletian’s persecution,
falls on the thirteenth day of December. And
on that day in each of Sweden’s cities, the Lucia
Girl is carried through the streets with great re—
joicing. Her crown of leaves and candles is the
symbol of Saint Lucia’s dear—bought halo. The
gnomes from Sweden’s legendary caves sit at
her feet, and at her back march star-boys—carol—
ling—in memory of the Wise Men of the East.

NARRATOR 11: So starts a time of feasting and of
joy—continuing on for one full month of fun
and good, rich food, and flag-decked Spruce
trees brought in from the woods and guarding
splendid gifts against the happy culmination of
the feast.

AUDIENCE: Carol

NARRATOR 1: Between the tall Carpathians and
the Danube—the home of populations rich in
legend—the people know the rich and honored
soil as never do the folk close—bound to cities.
And here the ancient and the newer custom, the
pagan and the Christian lore are woven in a
pattern fitting to the people.

PANTOMIME IV: A doorway is set up diagonally
across the stage. On one side of the door a chair
and a table strewn with hay or straw, and a sug-
gested fireplace, indicate an interior. A creche is
placed on one end of the table. On the other side
of the door a boy and a girl hold candles. A
group of men or older boys bring on a big Yulelog
wreathed in garlands from stage left. They carry
it through the doorway and place it in the tire-
place. A woman pantomimes sprinkling corn and
pouring wine over the log. Then one of the men
pantomimes lighting it. After a minute or two an-
other man comes through the doorway carrying
a rod of iron or wood. He strikes the log sharply,
then takes the wine jug from the woman, panto—
mimes pouring wine on the log, kneels and places
a coin on it.

421

422 FESTIVAL OF LIGHT—A PROGRAM FOR CHRISTMAS

NARRATOR II: At dawn upon the morning of the
feast it is the habit of Croatian folk to go into
the near—by forest and there fell a young oak
tree. They bring this Yulelog home with great
rejoicing and bear it—-wreathed in garlands—
through the doorway lit with candles on the left
and right hand sides. With wishes for abund-
ant harvest—a token gift.of corn and wine is
sprinkled on the Yulelog. As soon as it is burn-
ing merrily a neighbor comes with rod of wood
or iron and strikes it smartly. While the sparks
fly upward he chants his wishes for abundant
harvests —

NARRATOR III: “May the family that lives herein
have throughout the coming year as many horses
and as many cattle as there are sparks that now
fly from the Yulelog.”

NARRATOR II: To seal these wishes with his own
small tokens he pours upon the log a small liba-
tion and kneels to place a coin upon its surface.

NARRATOR III: And they believe—in those far
distant countries—that in the night an angel
comes from heaven and with his wing tips
touches all the waters that they may keep their
sweetness.

AUDIENCE : C are!

NARRATOR I: Across the seas and half a world
away the sacred story of a journey taken, a
search for lodging and for courtesy is played
again each year in ceremony.

NARRATOR II: In Mexico the poor and humble
peasants combine their efforts in the celebration
that’s called by them posadas—meaning lodging.

PANTOMIME V: Two children in Mexican peasant
dress bearing a small pine-decorated platform
which holds small replicas of Joseph and Mary
riding on a little donkey lead a procession' of
peasants to the doorway of a house. On the other
side of the doorway several people are sleeping
on mats or blankets on the floor. TEhey awake and
in dumb show threaten the people outside with
beating if they don’t go away. The group of
pilgrims begs to be admitted. The owner of the
house invites them in and they all kneel before a
tréche placed in one corner of the room. Off-
stage a chorus sings an Ave M aria.

NARRATOR III: Led by two children, friends form
a procession to re-enact that sacred journey
made so long ago. With songs traditional to this
occasion, they beg for lodging for the Virgin
Mary and are reviled by those within the house-
door of whom they have asked succor. The
pilgrims try once more and at this trying the

husband sees his error, asks them within with
show of great rejoicing. And so they kneel to-
gether before a model of an ancient manger and
sing in honor of the Virgin Mother.

AUDIENCE: C are!

NARRATOR I: In other lands with other native
customs the pe0ple wait with fitting ceremonies
to welcome in the light of this new dawning.
And so the hushed world waits the coming sig-
nal, the sign of a new spring for flesh and spirit.

AUDIENCE : Carol

NARRATOR II: The hour approaches, the midnight
hour of splendour.

NARRATOR I: At last the sign is given. The word
is spoken. The hush is broken—the breath let
out in shouts of joy, in great rejoicing. The
waiting world, released and jubilant, salutes the
day with heart and mind and Spirit.

PANTOMIME VI: The Holy Family.

NARRATOR I: “And it came to pass in those days,
that there went out a decree from Caesar Au—
gustus, that all the world should be taxed.

“And Joseph went up unto Bethlehem with
Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.

“And she brought forth her firstborn son, and
wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him
in a manger; because there was no room for
them in the inn.

“And there were in the same country shep-
herds abiding in the field, keeping watch over
their flock by night.

“And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon
them and the glory of the Lord shone round
about them; and they were sore afraid ;

NARRATOR II: “And the angel said unto them,
‘Fear not: for behold, I bring you good tidings
of great joy, which shall be to all pe0ple.

‘For unto you is born this day in the city of
David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.

‘And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall
find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes,
lying in a manger.’

NARRATOR I: “And suddenly there was with the
angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising
God and saying —”

CHORUS (Backstage): GLORIA IN EXCELSIS DEO.
NARRATOR III: The word is spoken and shouted.

NARRATOR II: The word is held silent in the heart.

NARRATOR 1: Peace on Earth, Good will toward
 men.

AUDIENCE: Silent Night.

RECREATION

Fun and More Fun!

at a time when talk of billions is heard more
often than not. But it was not enoughl
“During my twenty-two months overseas, much
of which was spent in the New Guinea area,”
wrote a Lieutenant, USNR, “I had many oppor—
tunities to use and evaluate the benefits of this
booklet. My only criticism is that we didn’t have
nearly enough.

TWELVE MILLION COPIES! A large number even
I

“I remember one particular incident in connec-
tion with this shortage of booklets. The men were
preparing for the invasion of Hollandia, one of the
Jap strongholds on the north coast of New Guinea.
We knew that the whole invasion force would have
to travel a considerable distance in order to reach
its destination. It was imperative that the men
have something to occupy their minds during this
tense period. I had available only about 2,500
c0pies of Fun En Route and I distributed them as
far as they would go. I could have used four or
five times that amount, judging from the requests
that I received during that period just preceding
the invasion. If you could only have seen the men
as they sat in the boats tense, awaiting the zero
hour, you would have received great satisfaction
seeing the men playing games on each other with
the aid of the little booklet Fun En Route.”

To the four corners of the earth they sped,
these pocket-size booklets with their amusing illus—
trations, their games, brain teasers, puzzles and
tricks. They appeared, literally, “in the heavens
above, the earth beneath, and the waters under the
earth”-——for copies traveled with the boys on
planes, on trains and buses,
on ships and in submar—
ines. In lonely stations of
the South Pacific, in the
Aleutians, in Alaska——
wherever our servicemen
were to be found—there,
too, were Fun En Route
and its companion pieces.

Abroad and at home, in
USO clubs, Red Cross
canteens, Travelers’ Aid
lounges, and in hospitals—
Fun En Route greeted the
servicemen. Eagerly wel-
comed by the ofhcials in

NOVEMBER 1945

World 0' Fun now takes its place beside
Fun En Route and More Fun En Route in
the series of fun booklets designed to provide
entertainment for our servicemen and women
wherever they may be.

These booklets, together with a hospital
edition of More Fun En Route, were pre-
pared by the National Recreation Association
and printed and distributed through the cour-
tesy of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Com-
pany. Approximately I2,000,000 copies have
been sent to the various branches of our
armed services through the Army, NavyI and
a number of cooperating agencies.

charge of the reconditioning service and by medi-
cal officers in hOSpitals, hundreds of thousands of
copies of the hospital editions made their way to
wounded veterans.

Though officially distributed by the Army, Navy,
Coast Guard and various branches of the Armed
Services, by the Red Cross, USO, Travelers’ Aid
and other cooperating associations, many c0pies
were sent to individual servicemen by friends and
relatives who had heard of the booklet or seen
copies. r.

A nurse wrote: “I am ill in the hOSpital. One
of my friends sent me your little booklet Fun En
Route which is giving me a great deal of pleasure.
If it is possible I would like a certain soldier to
receive one of these booklets who I know would
get a lot of fun out of it. His address is . . . . ..”

The Response?

From admirals, commandants, captains, and
lieutenants; from generals, colonels and majors;
from chaplains, “Gray Ladies,” Red Cross officials,
USO club directors and recreation executives have
come words of highest praise for the morale-build-
ing benefits of the booklets.

A lieutenant commander wrote us: “The Com-
mandant of the Eleventh Naval District wishes to
thank the National Recreation Association for its
most generous gift of 12,300 c0pies of the booklet
Fun En Route.

“The booklets have been received and are being
distributed through the District Welfare and Rec-
reation Office to the personnel of ships, offshore
bases and isolated units
where recreational material
of this nature is most ap-
propriate.

“The National Recrea-
tion Association may be in-
terested to know that the
booklets are being received

most enthusiastically by all
activities.”

Said a captain, USN,
“This hospital has recently
received a shipment con-
sisting of 3,500 booklets
entitled More Fun En

(Continued on page 441)

423

Izaak Walton to the Rescue

By Lieut. RUDOLPH KAUFFMANN, USNR..

IsHERMEN cRONIEs of a slight, wiry, unassum-
F ing man in his seventies might pause to won-

der why, of a Monday or a Thursday, they
were to notice him entering the Philadelphia Naval
Hospital. If one of them were sufficiently inter—
ested to follow, he’d find that it was the health of
others, not his own, that brought him there.

He’d see him pass the auditorium, descend the
back stairs, go through the galley and mess hall
and enter the door of the occupational therapy
workshop. The curious one would watch his friend
hurry past hand looms, printing machines, car-
penter benches, to a modest corner of the room
and a group of patients sitting intently at a table
covered with a rainbow—hued litter of feathers,
thread, tinsel, scissors, pins,-
needles and other bits and pieces.
This is the realm and these the
paraphernalia of fly tying.

Here the unassuming man is
greeted with smiles and cries of
“Hi ’ya!” and “Gee, I’m stuck.
Can’t seem to get the wings of
this \N'hite Miller right.”

With a twinkle in his blue eyes
our fisherman, who has managed
to spare enough time from a life-
time of fishing and hunting to be
sales manager for a manufactur-
ing company, will go over to the
table. Taking a couple of reflec-
tive piif'fs on a well-tanned briar,
he demonstrates with deft fingers
the correct method of binding the
wings on the White Miller bass
fly which some veteran hopes will
bag a husky Texas bass on that
first postwar fishing trip.

The teacher got his idea -——thc
idea that fly tying could be part
of the war effort—about the end
of February, 1945, that certain
time of year when all true fly fish-
ermen begin to fondle their tackle,
oil their reels, inspect the moth
balls in their fly boxes, and look

424

\x'istfully out of the window for signs of melting
snow and the ubiquitous first robin.

He knew that an experiment in utilizing deft
hand movements and mental concentration (so
much a part of the fly-tier’s art) for the rehabili-
tation of service personnel had been tried out
once before in another hospital. But he knew also
that the program there had not been as successful
as hoped because the hospital personnel, taught to
instruct in the art, were transferred elsewhere
almost as fast as they became proficient in their
job. He decided that a civilian instructor was the
answer. This kind of teaching needed someone
able to devote his time and willing to contribute of

(Continued on page 446)

 

RECREATION

Community Recreation Center Quiz
Part II

Q. From our previous discussion I understand
we can expect no difficulty in securing participa-
tion in the social activities, gym activities and the
use of game rooms. How do we get people to-
gether who want to be in specialized groups such
as drama, music, and crafts?

A. That is where your community nights and
special activities in the auditorium help. They
serve to attract people to the center who will learn
of the classes oraclubs they may join and of new
ones that may be.organized if there is sufhcient de-
mand. Open house, with exhibits of arts and crafts
and demonstrations by music, drama, and dance
groups, helps to attract people to the center. The
alert leader will find evidence of new interests by
listening to conversations of those who come to
game rooms, lounges, dances and snack bars. At-
tractive bulletin boards with brightly colored post-
ers and photographs can quicken interest. A work
table in the lounge with paint, brushes, and a few
simple tools may be the means of getting boys and
girls interested in poster making or block printing
to the point where they may ask for instruction
periods under a trained leader. The initiative may
come from people in the community _for almost any
course when they learn that the center is there to
serve their interests. But the director of the center
must carefully consider the space and facilities of
his building which the new activities will need, the
availability of leadership, and the amount of his
budget that can be spent for each innovation before
he encourages a new group to organize.

Q. What about lounge rooms for youth and
adults? Are they desirable, and can you have them
in school buildings without getting into trouble?

A. Yes—but with adults in this type of room
the question of smoking usually arises. I believe
if some provision could be made so" that adults
could smoke it would be an inducement for them
to use the buildings much more for informal social
recreation with their neighbors.

Q. Many schools have teachers’ rooms which
are frequently used by the teachers, I imagine, for
smoking, although this may be officially prohibited.
How about fire laws? Can the teachers officially
smoke in a teachers’ room, and  so, why can’t

NOVEMBER 1945

one room he set aside in the recreation center for
adults and perhaps older youth?

A. Many people do not realize that the no
smoking rules are necessary precautions we must
take for the safety of the building and to safe-
guard the children from sitting in classrooms
smelling of stale smoke. Thoughtless patrons do
not hesitate to smoke in corridors or classrooms
when they are not under the direct supervision of
the center staff. I should prefer having one room
with adequate ventilation made safe for smoking.

Q. Suppose that we open a lounge room for
youth, say three nights a week. Shall we permit
the youth to dance in the lounge?

A. If a lounge is open threei'or four week nights
to the same group, and in addition to this activity
the center conducts a regularly scheduled dance, I
believe the question of dancing in the lounge
should be given very careful consideration. Some
leaders might argue that dancing is the only ac-
tivity that the youth wish to participate in and that
they should be allowed to dance. After all, it is
their wishes for their recreation, they argue, that
we must consider, and if we, as adults, attempt to
impose controls on their program they won’t come
to the center. I think it is an indictment on us as
recreation leaders if dancing holds a monopoly on
young people’s leisure-time activities.

Would your committee be willing to try a com—
promise plan for dancing‘. in the lounge, which I
shall now outline? First, the center should have
a dance in the gymnasium with an orchestra and
a snack bar at least one night a week, or possibly
two nights -—,Fi‘iday and Saturday. The youth
should be included in the plans [for the dances and
in conducting them. The lounge, during the three
nights that it is open, should have a limited period
for dancing, possibly from 9 :00 to 9 :30, after the
club meetings, drama, music and “art groups have
completed their sessions. It is difficult for these
activities to compete with the excitement of pres-
ent—day dancing. In a quieter atmosphere the
young people would be more apt to seek the com-
panionship of a group interested in photography,
chess, or any one of a number of other activities.
But the constant jazz of a piano or juke box, and
a milling procession of boys and girls coming and

425

426 COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ

going make it hard for young people to concen-
trate on the quieter activities in any part of the

building.

The lounge could have-a victrola, a radio, or
piano, or all three, and the young people would
have to work out with the leader a reasonable and
satisfactory way of using them. A supply of table
games could be in the room, also good magazines,
hobby periodicals, and the daily papers. A work
table with craft materials in evidence for dance
decorations, party favors, or even old toys to be
repainted or mended will stimulate some of the
boys and girls to occupy themselves with brush and
wire and scissors. Comfortable chairs, shaded
lamps, potted plants, pictures, maps, and curtains
all would help to make the room an attractive place
in which to make new friends and to meet old
ones. An open fire would be most desirable. There
should be an attractive “lounge” bulletin. Do not
advertise only center activities, but post announce-
ments of interesting events in the city—concerts,
games, theaters, exhibits, museum field trips, spe-
cial radio programs, and unusual motion pictures.

Q. In addition to having general rooms and
provision for special interest groups such as those
wanting to participate in crafts, music, drama, what
should we do about more closely organized club
groups for youth and adults, such as the usual
girls’ clubs, boys’ clubs, co-recreational clubs, and
women’s clubs? Can they be successfully developed
and conducted in a school community center? If
so, how is it done?

A. That depends more on the leadership than
on the building. As to the adaptability of a school
building for this type of club program, this should
not be difiicult. Most modern school buildings
have excellent provision for special interest activi-
ties such as woodwork, metal work, cooking, sew-
ing, art, drama and music. But the regular class—
rooms are planned naturally for day classes first,
although they can be used as club rooms after
school hours. It is desirable to have a few rooms
planned primarily for clubs but adaptable to day
school use also. This would mean that furniture,
tables and chairs, should be suitable for a social
club program. There should be cases for club
trophies, wall space for club pictures, cupboards
where records and club materials can be kept.
A small corner kitchenette with stove, sink, and
cupboard could be concealed behind screens. But
more important than the room is the leader in it-

Q. Would this leader be responsible for the
total club program of the center, depending upon
volunteers for leadership of small club groups?

A. I was not speaking in terms of one club
leader for the center. But if your budget allowed a
very limited amount of money for club leadership,
it would be practical to have one excellently
trained leader whom the center director could put
in charge of volunteers. This leader might have
the leadership responsibility of some groups in the
center for some sessions, but devote the major part
of his time to the supervision of the volunteers.

Q. What should be the size of these closely
organized club groups?

A. These clubs would vary in size. There might
be some groups numbering six or seven. A group
of twelve to fifteen might be considered an aver-
age size for the type of club you referred to.

Q. How about club groups for older youth, say
sixteen to eighteen?

A. The war has greatly influenced this age
group as far as club organization is concerned.
Many of them were in the service and many of
those who were not were working after school and
evenings. Prior to the war we had many clubs of
this age, but our largest count was from fifteen to
sixteen years of age.

Q. Does this mean that those over sixteen do
not like club groups, or that they want a different
type of club program from that usually offered?

A. I believe those over sixteen are interested in
clubs, but there are many reasons why we do not
have this age in the same proportion that we have
those a year or less younger. More boys are re-
maining in school longer and are having, especially
as juniors and seniors in high school, very satis-
factory club social experience in connection with
their school life. Then, too, these seventeen and
eighteen year olds are,likely to belong to small
closed groups of friends who plan their own ac-
tivities and do not seek the leadership of agencies.
Also, at that age they are beginning to form in
foursomes or twosomes for dancing, skating,
movies.

Q. Do you know of any successful club pro-
grams for this group developed in connection with
community recreation centers? If .so, what are the
most common activities that hold them together?

A. Yes. With boys’ groups the most common

RECREATION

COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ 427

interest is athletics. Radio, photography, cartoon-
ing, nature, orchestra, and drama also attract them.
Fewer girls’ groups of this age, in my experi-
ence, start as athletic teams. Their interests often
center around their personal problems or service
projects for the center: During 'the war girls’ ser—
vice clubs flourished. Members wrote letters to
boys of the center in the service; they packed over-
seas boxes, and collected and prepared food for the

USO.

Q. Do boys and girls that age prefer mixed
clubs or separate boys’ clubs and girls’ clubs which
meet together occasionally for mixed activities?

A. I hesitate to generalize. Many boys are
members of a boys’ group and also a mixed group.
Girls, too, often belong to a mixed group in addi—
tion to a small group of girls. In my experience,
co-recreation clubs have had more success with
boys and girls over sixteen than with those a year
to two younger.

Q. In general, do girls go in for club organiza-
tions as much as boys?

A. That is a difficult question to answer. We
have always had more boys’ clubs than girls’ clubs,
but I do not believe it is because they have a more
pronounced tendency to form clubs than girls. It
might be due to the practice in most communities
of making more provisions for boys than for girls.
Also, boys generally have more freedom than girls.
In some communities there are strong family in-
fluences which keep girls in the home. Girls of
today have more home duties than boys. Many
prefer joining classes in dressmaking, millinery,
and interior decorating.

Q. What if a group of young adolescent girls
about thirteen or fourteen should say, “We want
to have some boys in our clubs”?

A. I would never flatly deny them the oppor—
tunity to try to organize a co-recreation club, al-
though I should be fairly certain that unless it had
some special interest as a core, the program would
not be very successful. I should try to get the
girls to draw up plans of some of the things they
thought they’d like to do in the club. Then I
should try to point out to them the desirability of
giving the program a trial period just with girls,
explaining that if they had full control of the plan—
ning and conduct of their own club they could have
a much better time because the boys might have
very different ideas and interest even when it came

to parties and picnics and hikes. I should suggesr
that they might occasionally invite boys in for
special meetings and social evenings.

Q. In mixed activities or mixed groups, is it
desirable to have an age differential between boys
and girls because girls appear to be more socially
mature than boys of the same age? I,

A. It usually works out that way naturally, but
I believe there should not be too much difference
in their ages. The best method is to leave the
selection of the members to the group itself.

Q. If we are successful in developing a number
of these clubs, should we have them organized

‘ into a club council?

A. Yes, a club council is desirable. It gives club
members experiences in organization outside their
own little units. There is satisfaction in belonging
to this bigger group. It can be an excellent influ-
ence on the morale of the entire center.

Q. What are the advantages and disadvantages
of trying to have these clubs ad0pt their own con-
stitutions and parliamentary procedures? Do boys
like this sort of thing more than girls?

A. A constitution and knowledge of parliament-
ary procedure are desirable but I do not believe
they should be compulsory. A constitution should
evolve from principles established by the group for
their club and adopted as a constitution when they,
feel the need for one. Parliamentary procedure is
the most democratic way of conducting a club, but
it should be ad0pted progressively as the members
find need for such regulations in the conduct of
their meetings. Practice in parliamentary proced—
ure should be encouraged, as it is experience that
will be valuable to the members in many situations
all through life. I do not believe there is any dif-
ference in the attitude toward the above on the
part of boys or girls. '

Q. Should exclusive use periods by organized
club groups of certain facilities, such as the gym,
depend upon their maintaining minimum attend-
ance in their regular club meetings, or should
there be no definite relationship between the two?

A. The entire use of a gym for athletic activi-
ties should not be reserved for club members of a
center. We should keep in mind that many who
come to the center have club activitiea away from
the center, in churches, private agencies, or in
school. Moreover, some boys and girls are not
club-minded, nor are they interested in competitive

RECREATION

428 COMEIJUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ

league and tournament play, but enjoy a pick-up
game of basketball or baseball. So periods in the
gym for these boys and girls should be provided.
Some centers have an athletic council made up of
representatives of various center clubs. This coun-
cil, with the aid of a club leader, draws up its own
rules regarding the relationship between club at-
tendance to the use of center facilities. The coun-
cil also makes out schedules for practice periods

and games.

Q. What good ways are there to publicize the
program so that we can make it “visible” to the

neighborhood ?

A. A large sign with the name of the center and
the hours it is open should be on the outside of the
building. At night it should be brightly lighted.
The main entrance should be well lighted. Near
the entrance or inside the door there should be a
list of the major activities offered. A lighted slate
bulletin board beneath the center sign can be used
for timely publicity, as announcements of daily
features can be chalked on it. Principals of neigh—
boring schools will distribute to the children
announcements to take home to their parents.
Churches in the neighborhood are often willing to
print announcements in their church calendar.
Neighborhood newspapers will carry stories. If you
can have cuts made of photographs of activities,
papers will often use them.

Q. How can our school center program be ef-
fectively related to any other existing recreation
services in the neighborhood?

A. First, by letting it be known that you are not
running your program in competition with exist-«
ing programs. Avoid duplicating what is being
done satisfactorily in meeting the needs of the
community. For example, if a private agency is
conducting a Saturday night dance that is meeting
the needs of a certain age group in the community,
it would be better for you to devote your time Sat-
urday to another activity for another age group. It
is desirable to be a member of any inter-agency
group in your community so that you may become
familiar with their program and explain your pro-
gram. It will give you another opportunity to learn
the recreation needs of your neighborhood and help
you to plan your program intelligently. Coopera-
tion is the key word.

Q. Should the director of the center live in the
neighborhood ?

A. It might be helpful, but I do not believe, it

NOVEMBER 1945

is necessary. The director should have time to
become acquainted with the neighborhood and for
home visits. In my city we employ the principal
of the school as co-director of the center on a
part-time basis. This helps to establish a good
liaison between our center and the neighborhood,
particularly with the youth. The full—time director
can strengthen this relationship through home
visiting and neighborhood service which was re-
ferred to.

Q. You mentioned what is to me a unique ar-
rangement—that is, employing the school principal
as a director and having another individual as a
full-time co-director. How do you work this?

A. The principal of the day school is on duty two
nights a week. One of these nights he has the
entire responsibility for the supervision of the pro-

gram so that the director may have a day off. The *

second night he has joint responsibility with the
full-time director. They plan together and consider
various problems jointly. The principal’s relation
to the center makes it possible to smooth out the
many frictions which might develop in the joint
use of the same building for the day school and for
the evening recreation center.

Q. Supposing we do not have this arrangement,
then what about the attitude and relationship of
the center to school personnel?

A. If the principal does not work as a member
of the staff, you could ask him to recommend one
of the day school teachers who could work in the
capacity as a leader or an instructor of a class.
It is a comfortable feeling to have someone from
the day school on the center staff in order to bridge
the gap between the two organizations.

Q. What are the usual causes of friction between
the day school and the evening center?

A. The most natural one to arise is the feeling
of proprietorship that the day school staff has for
its building. It’s the same feeling that we as rec—
reation workers would have, I am sure, if we had
a separate recreation building and the regular
school moved in for days with their classes. Sec-
ond, some schools have more formal discipline than
an evening center could have and the teachers look
askance at the freedom with which the youth as
patrons of the night center circulate through the
halls from gym to game room, from billiard room
to lounge.

Then there is always the possibility of friction
between two people using the same room and

COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ 429

equipment. Day school teachers sometimes leave
unfinished projects on tables or in the center of
the room with “do not touch” signs—and some-
times without the “do not touch” signs. Every
center leader, if he is wise, reports it to the director
and the difficulty is usually ironed out without
much trouble. But sometimes he is irritated and
disregards the signs, moves things out of the way,
thus disturbing the day school project. This in
turn is very irritating to the day school teacher.
Also, a leader is sometimes careless in his super-
vision of the people in his group who are using the
room and things are misplaced or broken.

These, I believe, are the most usual causes of
friction, but by cooperation and consideration for
each other’s problem both staffs usually come to an
early understanding and compatible relationship.

Q. What about custodial problems?

A. Before a building is open there should be a
definite understanding of whose responsibility it
is to care for the physical plant. All arrangements
must be in accord with the policies of the school
board in these matters. Janitorial service may be
part of the regular day “school janitor’s duties or
it may be performed by an assistant janitor who
reports for late afternoon and evening duty. Not
only the cleaning of the building and putting it in
order must be thought through, but the director
and all the leaders, as well as the janitors, must
know whose work it is to close windows, clean up
after craft classes, put away equipment, lock cup-
boards and doors, and return keys. The janitor
should be given a calendar of center activities well

in advance so that he can plan his work accord-
ingly.

Q. Should the janitor be paid on the basis of
number and types of rooms used each night, or
should he be paid on a straight time basis?

A. Either basis could be used. I prefer the
time basis.

Q. Frequently school activities carry over into
the night, particularly the use of the auditorium
for school functions, and rehearsals. When you
have planned for use of the auditorium for a night
for a particular purpose, and the school principal
demands the use of that space for the same time

without giving you adequate notice, what do you
do about it?

A. I am a strong believer in compromising if it

means keeping a program going. Situations like
that might arise, but I think a lot of them could be

avoided by working out a definite calendar and a
definite understanding with the principal, so there
can be a reasonable attitude on each side. Each
should know about the plans of the other. This
should carry over into program planning as well as
scheduling for the use of facilities.

For example, if we know that the day school is
going to put on a Christmas night program we
plan for some other type of Christmas activity and
schedule it for a different night. Before the Christ-
mas season opens, for instance, we might have a
community night early in the month of December
with a dramatic performance and music, but would
omit any special Christmas material the day school
plans to use. The principal and the director should
make out a schedule for the use of the auditorium
stage for rehearsals so that there will be no con-
flicts. Where a school has both an auditorium and
a gym this is not difficult, but many times there is
a combination auditorium and gym, and in these
cases it is not so easy. Physical activities get pref-
erence. Such things as music or dramatic produc-
tion rehearsals have a hard time getting the use of
stage facilities for rehearsals.

Q. Schools are frequently used by outside
groups for their own affairs and not as a part of
the recreation center program. How should this
use of the school building used by us also for a
center be worked out?

A. The use of school-center facilities by outside
groups should be handled directly by the secretary
of the board of education according to board poli-
cies and rules. The director of the building should
be consulted before the permit is issued.

Q. Suppose the school authorities asked us to
handle this in our particular building? What is
the best way to do it?

A. I do not think that the director of a building
should ever have to be the one to make such de-
cisions. There should be a definite board policy to
determine who is eligible to use the building.
Guided by this policy, the center director might
take the responsibility for scheduling time for out-
side groups if they were eligible. I think it is a
good policy to refuse the use of the building to all
outside groups whose purpose is commercial or of
a closed interest.

Q. You do, however, make charges for some of
the events carried on by the center itself, such as
dances, do you not?

{Continued on page 435)

RECREATION

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

NIMAL Tracks and ways of getting from

place to place is the subject described in the

January, 1945, Cornell Rural School Leaflet en-
titled “Over the Ground.”

Botanical Gardens, New York City, celebrated
its hftieth anniversary on May 10, 1945. Doctor
N. L. Britton, of Britton and Brown Botanical
Book fame, was the first director of the Gardens.
This area has been of great value to the schools
and recreation programs in New York City.

“Children’s Greenhouse, The,” a twenty page
pamphlet of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden written
by Margaret M. Dorward. This and other book-
lets tell about the plan of work started by Ellen
Eddy Shaw in 1913 which has been an example
for similar adventures throughout the country.

Christmas Trees, Living. You don’t have to kill
1. an evergreen in order to have a Christmas tree.
Keep the roots of your chosen tree in its original,
compact ball of soil and set it in a tub of earth.
Keep it indoors until it has served its Yuletide
purpose, then transplant it to a permanent loca-
tion. Be sure to dig your permanent hole before
the soil freezes!

Cornell Plantations is the name of the Cornell
University Arboretum and the title of a publica-
tion which appears four times a year. Dr. Liberty
Hyde-Bailey proclaims this a project set up “by
the friends of things that grow” and planned to
devise “ways of handling all of them for the wider
service of man.” Bristow Adams, editor of the
publication, predicts that “to the Plantations will
come from all parts of the world peaceful pil—
grimages.”

C over for Animals. “Anything that hides an
animal from its enemies or keeps the animal’s
enemies from getting to it may be considered
cover.”—Cornell Rural School Leaflet, Spring

1945.

“Farming, Part-Time.” Farmer’s Bulletin No.
1966, U. S. Department of Agriculture. 18 pp.
$.10. Many veterans will find farming a satis-
factory way of life but they will need to derive a
part of their income from work off the farm.

Forest LVorkers Training Camp. Wood har-
vesting in the future will be done bytrained men.

430

. message, "Gardening is fun.

The State Forestry Department of Connecticut
Opened a Training Camp in January 1945. The
training consists of a month’s course “on the job,”
and the “campers” are paid hfty-five cents an hour
while they are there. This should be of interest to
some returning veterans, as it qualifies for per-
manent jobs.

Nature Recreation. “Outdoors Indoors,” by
Reynold E. Carlson, National Recreation Associa-

- tion, New York. $.75. A rich source book in the
i realm of nature.

!

“Ornithology as a Career.’ Bios Vocational
Series, Mount Vernon, Iowa. $.10.

Poisonivy and Poisonsumac. According to
Standardized Plant Names the two words, “poison
ivy” should be run together. No matter how you
spell it it’s still “poison” and anyone likely to
meet the plant (and who isn’t?) should send for
this up-to-date treatise by “Moosewood Bill” Har—
low. New York State College of Forestry, Syra—
cuse, N. Y., 1945. 20 pp.

Science. “The Way of an Investigator,” by
Walter B. Cannon. W. W'. Norton and Co., 1945.
229 pp. $3.50. Considerable biographical material
on Dr. Cannon (Professor Emeritus of Physiology
in Harvard University) makes this book especially
helpful for those considering a scientific career.

Shaw, Ellen Eddy, curator of Elementary In—
struction at the Brooklyn Botanic Gardens from
1931 to 1945, retired from active service last June.
Miss Shaw has been a beacon in a great metropolis
—a beacon that flashed over and over again the
” She will carry her

contagious enthusiasm with her to her beloved
New England.

“Soil.” Elementary Science Booklet. Agricul—
tural Research Department, Swift and Co., Chi—
cago 9, Ill. 11 pp.

Visual Education. Over 700 pictures, size eight
by ten inches, of phases of life that are of most
interest to children are available from the Crea—
tive Education Society, Mankato, Minnesota, at a
cost of seven to eight cents per print. Each pic—
ture carries its story printed on the back. There
are series on shelter, conservation, and many other
important aspects of life.

RECREATION

_.-—_I.'- .

WORLD AT PLAY

MANY good and new
things come out of

. Chicago. In 1945 the
Chicago Public Library dreamed up a new read—
ing game for youngsters. Its slogan was “You can
have a circus with books.” All the gay parapher-
nalia of the circus appeared on bulletin boards
which proudly hailed the Honor Roll of names of
those youngsters who were participating. During
the summer meetings of the club were held weekly.
There were talks about books and their authors,
there was storytelling and there was the Honor
Roll for all youngsters who attended the meetings
and read six books during the summer.

Circus with Books

THE people of Mil-
waukee had a rather
unusual Opportunity
to sing together last spring. In fact, the “audi-
ence got a break,” because in addition to a pro-
gram of no mean proportions given by the Young
People’s Orchestra and the Young People’s Sym—
phonic Band, the “people down front” were asked
to participate in singing old favorites—both spirit-
ual and secular in nature—in part and in unison.

Informal Get-Together

A TEN YEAR plan was
approved by the citi—‘
zens of Chicago for the
extension of Chicago’s
park system and for improvements on existing
parks. A bond issue of $24,000,000 was voted for
last summer to finance the first four years of the
program. There will be new parks and recreation
centers, swimming pools, field buildings, and other
facilities. It will be the eHort of the Chicago Park
District to provide every neighborhood with rec—
reation facilities.

Ten Year Park
Program for Chicago

CITY schools in Wil-
mington, Delaware,
have an all-city orches-
tra functioning year-round and made up of stu-
dents and recent graduates from private, public
and parochial 'schools. It is largely self-managed
but under the direction of the school music teacher.
All the junior and senior public high schools have
bands and orchestras also.

All-City Orchestra

 

NOVEMBER 1945

Memorial Is Dedicated

INGENUITY can cover
a multitude of sins.
Last autumn, the mem-
bers of the Recreation Commission of Portland,
Maine, knew that the children who had been well
served on summer playgrounds wanted and needed
supervised play activities on Saturday mornings.
There weren’t enough funds left in the treasury to
provide neighborhood activities, but the Commis-
sion provided paid playground personnel as lead-
ers for a centralized program every Saturday
morning. The location was chosen on the basis of
the greatest concentration of children of school
age as indicated by school enrollment statistics.
For the boys the program included basketball, tag
football, volley ball and soccer. The girls danced
and skated to music played over the Park Depart-
ment public address system.

Morning Program

FECKLETON, England,
Aug. 20 (AP)-—A me-
morial playground
built and paid for by American troops was dedi-
cated today on the site of “Britain’s greatest air
tragedy of the war”-—where an American plane
crashed ino a school building on August 23, 1944,
killing sixty—one people, twenty-eight of them
children.

Soldiers from the Air Service Command’s Base
Air Depot 2 donated $10,400 for building the
three—acre playground and $5,200 for its main-
tenance. Besides paying for the work of private
contractors, the soldiers built sliding boards from
salvaged airplane parts, mixed concrete, graded
and plowed the cricket and football fields and
seeded the lawns.

THE Belle Isle Shell
was the scene in Au-
gust, 1945, of a. Show
participated in by 2,000 youngsters trained on De-
troit’s playgrounds and at Detroit’s parks and rec-
reation centers. Four acts of songs and skits,
blackouts and drills brought alive Show Boat Days,
The Gay Nineties, The Roaring Twenties, and
The Present—Glamour Age in the Southland,
Manhattan, Detroit, and the Golden West respec-
tively. Youngsters of all ages participated in the
festivities.

U. S. A. Revue

431

432 WORLD AT PLAY

 

       

DIAMOND PITCHING SHOES

Many models of Diamond Official Pitching

Shoes offer fans a wide selection. Dr0p-

- forged from high grade steel—will not chip
or break. Carefully balanced.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts
.ARHYZ—I ‘-

ie ,, DIAMOND CALK

are. HORSESHOE CO.

46|0 Grand Ave., Duluth. Minn.

 

  
 
 

C. A. Bossen Retires———On August 24, 1945,
about 100 city officials and veteran park employees
of Minneapolis gathered at the Theodore Wirth
chalet to give a final send—off to C. A. Bossen,
Park Superintendent for ten years. His retirement
was soon to take effect. Superintendent Bossen
had served in the Minneapolis Park Department
for forty years. The group heard testimonials
from Mayor Hubert H. Humphrey, George Don—
oghue, V. K. Brown, and Theodore \Virth. C. E.
Doell, who now becomes Superintendent of Parks
in Minneapolis, praised C. A. Bossen for his sin—
cerity, his frankness, his executive ability, and
pointed out all that he had done to help build the
Minneapolis park system.

Goodfellow Dolls—Members of recreation

groups in Detroit dressed 200 dolls for the Good—
fellows to distribute to girls who might not other-
wise receive any Christmas gifts in 1944. An

exhibit of the dolls was staged at the G.A.R.
building for two days.

Natural Area for P1ay———In \Vaterloo, Iowa,
a “natural” area has been set aside on each of the
playgrounds. Each of these areas is “equipped”
with several small hillocks, several lengths of large
concrete pipe through which the children can
crawl, a row of posts for climbing or dodging
around, and a balance beam.

Music and Radio in Hawaii—During one
month last winter four playgrounds participated in
a weekly radio broadcast. A total of fifty-eight
persons, young and old, were guests of station
KGU. It is possible for any radio group to make
appointments for rehearsals at the station pro-
vided they send in advance notice of their intent.

In the same month 978 children attended music
classes at one or the other of the four play-
grounds.

Favorable Referendum in Peoria, Illinois—~—
In June, Peoria, Illinois, voted favorably to estab—
lish recreation departments under the Illinois
Home Rule and to levy a tax to support the
project. ‘

Recreation Commission to Operate State
Park——Under the agreement signed last spring
between the State Park Commission and the State
of Long Beach, California, Alamitos Bay State
Park will continue‘to be operated “for the use and
enjoyment of the public” by the Recreation Com-
mission for the next five years. The agreement
provides that the city may extend such control for
another five years if it desires to do so.

Dyersburg, Tennessee, Recreation Commit-
tee Appointed—The Board of Mayor and Al-
dermen of Dyersburg has appointed a Youth and
Recreation Committee of“ five members to assume
responsibility for the development of a city recrea—
tion program. The Committee has established an
ordinance outlining the duties and responsibilities
of a Recreation Commission or Board, and has a
budget of $4,000 for its first fiscal year.

Dyersburg is the first community in West Ten-
nessee, with the exception of Memphis, to establish
a year-round program of recreation. It is antici-
pated that the forward step which Dyersburg has
taken will serve as an example to other communi-
ties in that area and they, too, will see fit to estab—
lish such a program. '

RECREATION

All THESE QUAlITIES

Official size. weigh}. shape
Na seams —na flal ar dead spals

Complete waferpraaf cansl'rucfian

Besl an any playing surface

V
V
V
V Firm grip—easiest ta handle
V
V All wealher playabilily

V

The lanqest wearing ball made
nan-u THE BEST DEALERS ARE VOIT DEALERS

M NtEIIC
[us-nun! 1.00 I. 2!". Eh. I“ Angelou. II 0 no No. Wade: Dv . thing. 6. III.

 

NOVEMBER 1945

  

DRURY COLLEGE LIBR§RY

- .. RM

 
   

l

434 STATEMENT FROM WALTER L. STONE

  
 
 
 
  
 

   

SPORTS 
EQUIPMENT

61mm: RAWLINGS
Jetty; ATHLETIC ,ooons

4M 8'an Spa/d
Available from

Leading Athletic Goods
Distributors

Sports for War Busy Women—Sports for
girls and women working in war industries, for
housewives, and other women in volunteer war
service will be offered at many municipal recrea-
tion centers in Los Angeles, California. Softball.
basketball, volley ball, and badminton are among
the activities in which groups will be organized.

Pontiff Says Sports

Develop Character

OME, JULY 30 (AP)-——P0pe Pius XII told a
R group of instructors from the United States
Army central sports school of Rome today that
sports had real value in improving men intellectu-
ally, morally and physically.

“Sport, properly directed, deve10ps character
and makes a man courageous, a generous loser and
a gracious victor,” the Pope said. “It refines the
senses, gives us intellectual penetration and steels
the will to endurance.

“It is not merely the physical development then.
Sport, rightly understood, is an occupation of the
whole man and, while perfecting the body, it also
makes the mind a more refined instrument for the
search and communication of' truth.‘ It helps man

  

  

achieve that end to which all others must be sub—
servient—the service and praise of his Creator.”

Noting that instructors had been placed at uni-
versities in the United States, the P0pe com-
mented:

“Your academic associations will put you on
guard against the tendencies, too common, alas,
nowadays, of making Sport an end in itself—which
it can never be. .

“Harmony between the physical development of
man on one side and his intellectual and moral
education on the other is not easy to achieve.
Hence, there is the necessity of your instilling into
your pupils the importance of discipline—not
merely external discipline, but the discipline of
rigorous self-control which is as momentous in the
realm of sport as in that of the intellectual or
moral order.”

Statement from
Walter L. Stone

ALTER L. STONE of Nashville, Tennessee,
erites interestingly of recreation as one of
the major fields of human service. He points out
the many different movements that have made a
special contribution to the recreation movement.
He indicates the interest of religion and education
and health and welfare but makes it clear that rec-
reation, though it makes a contribution to a great
many human services, is in itself a very distinct
form which has a place in its own right.

He points out clearly that recreation is inter-
ested in persons as well as in groups; that work
with groups belongs to education, religion and
many other fields equally.

Recreation, he states, is a form of service much
broader than social work on the one hand or formal
education on the other, though it is related to
both. Recreation is a form of human service in its
own right and has its own program.

This field of service has its own national clear-
ing house in the National Education-Recreation
Council. Among the groups included are those
dealing particularly with boys’ and girls’ work,
athletics, religious and educational activities, youth
agencies, leisure time and cultural pursuits.

In localities there are many councils that are
related to recreation, though many of these coun-
cils are part of a larger, over-all community ser-
vice program. Many of the planning councils in-
clude business, labor and civic organization repre-
sentatives'.

RECREATION

COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ 435

It’s looking like old times in our busy factories
today. We’re really beginning to turn out equip-
ment in peacetime volume. Before long dealers
all over the nation will be fully supplied with
the latest Wilson developments in modern sports
equipment of all kinds. You can bank on a

“Wilson” every time to be the newest and best
for modern play. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York and other leading cities.

‘lDif/son

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Let’s a” 6005! :63 "War M emariais

1k

 

That Live" Campaign
*

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Community Recreation Center'Quiz

(Continued from page 429)

A. Yes, but the pI'OfltS are deposited in the of—
flCC of the secretary of the board. All tickets are
numbered and a detailed financial report is made
of money taken in and of unsold tickets. It is im-
portant that the person in charge of all ticket sales
be fully familiar with state or federal regulations
governing admissions and taxes. It is wise to set
an early deadline for all such reports to be filed in
the main office and for the money deposited. We
require that this be done not later than the Tues-
day following the night of the event.

Q. In connection with special events such as
dances, where large numbers are present, how do
you keep people from running all over the building?

A. \fVe have high collapsible gates which fold
up against the wall when not in use. At night the
gates can be closed so that no one can go through
to the corridors and halls not being used. These

gates limit circulation to the space we are planning

NOVEMBER 1945

 

to use and which we are supervising. However, if
for some reason the gates are not installed, due to
regulations of the f1re department or for some
other good reason, you could use monitor service
to prevent circulation in the unused areas. We are
careful to keep locked all doors of rooms not being
used.

Q. What hours, on the basis of your experi—
ence, should we operate our center? "

A. Hours should be flexible and arranged to
meet the demands of various activities. A popular
practice is for the centers to open at 7:15. This
means that the director, janitor, and doorman are
there at 7:00, the doorman admitting recreation
staff workers who check in and report at their sta-
tion by 7:15. When participants come in, they
check their hats and coats and then go to whatever
activity they want. N 0 room door is open until the
leader of that particular group is there to Open it
and supervise it. Most activities close officially at
9 :30, but the leader is required to stay in the room
till 9:45 in order to take care of any special con-

436 THE NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

COPPER

Bracelet Blanks
Ring Blanks

Discs
Sheet

Foil Square Blanks

Immediate Delivery
0

FREE Priceolist on request
MILTON ORKIN

45 Bromiield Street Boston. Mass.

ferences with members of their group. Saturday
night dances close at 11 :30, and the young people
check out immediately. The building is usually
ready to be closed between 11 :45 and midnight.

Q. Do you have any trouble in showing movies,
particularly straight entertainment movies — not
educational films?

A. No. We get straight entertainment film in
16 mm. from our local motion picture distributor.

Q. Are there any other points about which you
think you ought to warn us in connection with this
problem ?

A. Yes. Before you open a building you should
clear with the fire department to make sure that all
safety regulations have been met. You should also
clear with the health department regarding toilet
facilities. Be thoroughly familiar with city build—
ing ordinances. Check with the fire department and
building department regarding auditorium seating,
to make sure you do not permit too many people
to attend at one time. Each center should have a
first-aid kit and a place for taking care of emer-
gency accident cases. Each center director should
have the name and telephone number of the hospi-
tal used by the city, of the police, and of the ambu-
lance service, in case of emergency. Carefully
worked out forms should be prepared for report-
ing accidents, including a full description of what
happened, the causes, and other details, and signed
by at least two, and probably three, reliable wit-
nesses. In my city, serious accidents are taken to
the emergency hOSpital. The director does not call
a private doctor. In smaller cities, where such ser-
vices may not be available, a policy should be
worked out on the basis which other public agen-
cies follow to provide necessary emergency services.

 

The National Recreation Congress

(Continued from page 397)

Single occupancy—$6.00, 7.00, 8.00, 9.00, 10.00,
$11.00, 14.00

Brighton—Indiana Avenue
Double occupancy—$3.00, 3.50, 4.00 per person
daily
Single occupancy—$4.00, 5.00, 6.00

Crillon—Indiana Avenue
Double occupancy—$4.00, 4.50, 5.00 per person
daily
NOTE: Includes continental breakfast and free parking

space in the Open lot next to hotel. No single rooms
available.

Dennis—Michigan
Double occupancy—$4.50, 5.00, 6.00, 7.00 per
person
Single occupa11cy——$6.00, 7.00, 8,00

NOTE: Rooms with running water, $3.50 and $4.00
double; $4.50 and $5.00 single.

Madison—Illinois Avenue
Double occupancy—$3.00, 3.50, 4.00 per person
daily ___
Single occupancy—$4.00, 5.00, 6.00
NOTE: Some rooms have private, some connecting bath.

Monticello—Kentucky Avenue
Rooms with hot and cold running water and
double beds
Double occnpancy——$I. 50 per person daily
Single occupancy—$2.00
Make your reservations early!

Bedecked with Bays and Rosemary

(Continued from page 414)

Britain. One day, while he was resting a few
minutes from his task, he noticed that the staff, a
rod from a tree long dead, had rooted and grown
and put forth leaves. On Christmas day it blos-
somed and so it has done ever since.

The poinsetta is native to Mexico. There it is
called “flower of the holy night” because it, too.
had its origin in a Christmas miracle. For, many
years ago, there was a child so poor she had no
gift to carry to the church and lay before the
Christmas manger. The child stopped outside the
church, for she would not go in without a present
for the Christ child’s birthday. As she knelt,
weeping, to pray, a scarlet blossomed plant sprang

RECREATION

THEY CALL ’EJI AS THEY SEE ’EM 437

from the ground beside her—a fitting gift to bring
to the sanctuary.

The bay tree sheltered the Holy Family during
a storm that overtook them in the flight into
Egypt, and upon a bay branch Mary hung the
small garments of the baby Jesus to dry. 80, these
plants too have a special significance for Christ-
mas, and so they were used during the Middle
Ages when men combined freely their secular and
religious symbols, to deck the boar’s head, tradi-
tional meat of the Christmas feast. '

They Call 'Em as They See 'Em

(Continued from page 403)

captain as required by the athletic code of the
school.

Ninth grade members of the club have been as-
signed, too, to officiate at inter-school games played
at the junior high school and at the five ele-
mentary schools in Columbia. Twelve of them were
employed in 1944 by the Columbia Recreation
Commission to help with three softball leagues.
Members of the club will continue this job in 1945.
They have worked as umpires, referees, score
keepers, ticket sellers and ticket takers, and public
address system announcers. They have learned of—
ficial methods of scoring, timing, and charting
games. No one of them has yet reached his lif-
teenth year, but their eficlciency on the Field has
been praised by everybody who saw them at work.

In 1943-44 there were thirty members of the
club. Each member served in some ofhcial capacity
61.32 times. This year the membership has been
trebled to allow in part for increased demands for
admission. Still more expansion is being planned
for the future.

A president, vice—president, and secretary are
elected by each section of the club early in the
school year. Other officers and committees are ap-
pointed by the executive committee as needed.
Squad captains lead intra-club competitive tourna-
ments. The club has its own publicity medium,
The Bulletin, a mimeographed sheet that keeps the
school informed of the activities of the club and the
monthly standings of each of the groups in com-
petitive sports. The paper is written by, for, and
about the students. During the year the club is
also responsible for an assembly program, an an-
nual dance or other program for the basketball
squad, and an evening athletic program which
features some phase of the club’s activities.

NOVEMBER 1945

m 6 V“ Y FIELD OF 57°03]; .

‘

SPORT} illllFIEIT

' QpOI" :11 Plate!-
'- -' ‘I'Mleur! u
- 'n'i'v-etsiiics

pl can" ‘ ’|"}.-l iii-nu.

 

. WW?” fom jew- 

mustang“ l4 (HID U I l

A Town Forest for Troy
(Continued from page 407)

By 1942, 'with America at war and the demand
for forest products steadily increasing, the forest
proved its value. In that year sales amounted to
$2,652, wood on hand and other credits were
valued at $2,239, and the estimated earnings at the
close of the year amounted to $1,866. The plant-
ing program was continued, and 57,000 more young
trees took their places on the Troy hills.

The town report for the year ending February
29, 1944, shows continued progress, aided by good
markets but hindered by lack of labor. Receipts
amounted to $2,695, including $2,267 from sale of
wood products.\Vood on hand and other items gave
the forest project an additional credit of $2,503,
for a total of $5,198. Cash expenses amounted to
$2,431, including $106 used to buy and plant
10,000 more trees.

At the 1944 town meeting the people of Troy
voted to create a special fund from earnings of the
town forest. It is expected that the fund will
amount to $4,000 by the close of this year. Right
'n0w the money is being invested in war bonds.

438 COME INTO MY MOSS GARDEN

NATIONAL

GYM SU-ITS
' . forGlRLS

I

  

1k Correct Style

1k Proper Design
* Quality Fabrics
* Expert Workmanship

   
 

3

l \s

    
 

9

WW

IP08?! EQUIP/‘1fo CO.

365-75 MARQUIIII
Faun 0014:, Wu.

H

 

 

After victory the money, in due time, will be used
to help meet the cost of a new consolidated school.

But not all the benefits to the town of Troy have
been financial, as represented by income from land
otherwise tax delinquent. Local people have had

work near home and relief clients have been pro-
vided with fuel.

Perhaps most important of all, in the long view,
the people of Waldo County now have before them
a good demonstration that selective cutting and
pr0per management pay cash dividends. Exten-
sion Service representatives, who have long recog-
nized the importance of what they call “spread of
influence,” know that the Troy example is having
its effect on other towns.

Some of these have made small plantings, more
have improved the management of woodland on
town farms for-the poor. Still more have not gone
beyond the stage of watching the Troy experiment.

So much for the opening chapter in this story of
a modern Troy and its forest. As the story un-
folds with the years it should be one of encourage-

ment for towns perplexed by the transition from
idle farm land to productive woodland.

    
 

And so today in Troy, Maine, which bears the
name of the ancient Greek city of legendary fame,
where the hills were covered with oak and cypress,
the pe0ple can lift their eyes to a forest that gives
them a measure of security and satisfaction instead
of the emptiness and waste of misused land.

Come Into My Moss Garden
(Continued from page 404)

the ferns all about! I must not start on them:
this is strictly about mosses and lichens! But do
add wild plants and ferns as you build your
garden.

Do not be in too much of a hurry, for this kind
of garden to be a thing of beauty and a joy for-
ever must be carefully planned and well planted.
Each bit of moss or lichen should be a reminder of
happy hours in wood or pastures or along city
streets. Gather slowly to “count the happy hours.”

It may be that you live in the city and do not
often get to the wild pastures and deep woods.
You may have a moss garden, anyway, and the
hunt will have a zest of its own. Watch the
crevices of the sidewalks and the retaining walls
along the streets. Other good hunting grounds are
behind garages, under low branching shrubs and
trees, and along the green strip between sidewalk
and curb. Watch for the lichens on old trees along
the streets and in the parks. You can only study

these specimens for you will not be able to “collect”
them.

The study of mosses and lichens will fill many
leisure hours. These tiny plants are most fascinat-
ing in structure and habits of growth. You will
want to get a few books on them. It is well to
own the books, but you can always get them at a
library. Here are several which give the life his-
tories of the moss garden folk: Masses with a
Hand Lens, by A. J. Grout, and H ow to Know the
.Uossc's and Lichens, by Nina L. Marshall. Then
there is this one which has something on lichens as
well, M asses, by Elizabeth Marie Dunham.

I warn you! Once you have begun this most
interesting hobby, it will lead you to many another
treasure found only “out in the fields with God.”

Choose YoUr Partner

( Continued from page 405)

the floor to demonstrate. Without losing a beat
he is back at the piano, and the melody comes
again from the keys. He smiles encouragement to

RECREATION

i

 

CHOOSE YOUR PARTNER 439

In.

 

BOYS CLUBS 0 CITY RECREATION o Y.M.C.A’s and Y.W.C.A's :- SCHOOLS

CHURCHES 0

all over the country are adapling this new way of bowling that
requires no pin-boys but Is played and scored the some as
regulolion bowling. Our Service men and women in camps

and USO clubs went wild over the game!

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY 1-H

TWO-WAY BOWLING GURPUHATIBN.

dancers faltering through the steps for the first
time, shouts instructions to the confused, beams
delightedly at those who are swinging out with
assurance.

Then a talented young man with a natural in-
stinct for leadership and an uncanny skill with an
accordion “takes over.” The dancers form sets.
The young man plays his accordion and calls a
lusty American square dance. Gone is the sophis—
tication of the college students, the weariness of
the ofiice workers, the loneliness of soldiers and
strangers. For many of them the barks of the
caller have a childhood nostalgia——a memory of
parents or grandparents dancing these same dances
in the village hall. For others it is merely a highly
satisfactory new dance. The young man with the

NOVEMBER 1945

SERVICE CENTERS

e FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
||4 East 32nd StreetI New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-War Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional in ormation and literature describing alley.

Name. ..
Addren

City 

 

accordion changes to a Virginia reel. The lines
form, the dancers change positions rapidly, and
down the line they go.

Now all rest awhile. Here comes the acting
hostess to keep an eye on the newcomers. All
during the dancing the veteran members have

taught them the steps, dancing with each until he

has learned the dances, then passing on to show
others.

The accordionist strikes up a fiery Hungarian
dance, Csebogar, and the intermission is over.
Next comes a Danish wedding waltz. A Lithuan—
ian polka tells the story of a blacksmith at his
forge. A Texas schottische called Little-Man-in-a-
Fix, a progressive dance, is especially good because
it mixes the entire group once more. Then the

440 “GET IN THERE AND PAINT”———I DID!

 

Auditorium and Arena Builders

INSTALL

The'Carpenter Monolithic Concrete Floating

Floor and Piping System
(U. S. Patent No. |.9|7.b34)

THE ALL-PURPOSE FLOOR
Ice One Night . . . .A Circus the Next

Fifteen Years Constant and Satisfactory Use
For Best Results—Use the Carpenter Ice Planar

E. R. CARPENTER
l560 Ansel Road No. 9. Cleveland 6. Ohio

Use the Original—Not cm Imitation

accordion plays a merry Swiss dance, H ol-di—ri-dia,
with the echoes of the Alps in its lilting melody;
a dance with the lovely name, Chimes of Dunkirk,-

a Swedish dance.

From this point, the phonograph carries on with
a minuet. This stately, gracious court dance takes
as well with the folk dancers as the peasant dances.
The girl with the saddle shoes, the young man with
the worn, shiny “pants, hold their heads proudly,
perform the dance slowly and sedately as befits its

origins and the music.

The group includes whites, Negroes, and orien-
tals. PeOple of several nations are there: Poland,
Czechoslovakia, Japan, China, Ecuador, the Ar-
gentine. It is a pleasant evening when the repre-
sentatives of the South American countries, teach-
ers of Spanish at the University, come to the hall.
The boys and girls stare, fascinated, as they gather
close to see the South American dances. From
Argentina comes the tango, suave and cosmopoli—
tan. A dance of exquisite grace, perfect balance,
and precision timing, it requires more polish and
skill than some of the group dances. But the
audience decides it is worth trying and crowds
eagerly around the smiling, black-haired teacher.
It is followed by a rhumba, smooth, relaxed, with
an undercurrent of emotional color. The beat
becomes insistent. Once interpreted in movement,
the rhumba pounds in the blood stream like the
beat of a marching drum, but more subtly and
insidiously. Now the teacher begins a new dance,
a dance of reckless gaiety, La Conga. The Ameri-
cans do only a part of the dance when they form
the Conga line. The Latin dance is actually more
complicated and interesting.

Everyone is quite tired now. Tonight the group
had agreed beforehand to have “cokes.” Refresh-
ments, if served at all, are always very simplerand

  
   
    
   
   

inexpensive. Because there is no admission fee,
the entire evening’s entertainment does not cost
more than a nickel or a dime for “coke” and a

share of p0pcorn.

Tonight there is time for the group to sing a
few songs, or for individuals to tell stories, tall
tales, or jokes. (The Spotlight is never forced on
those who would rather just listen.)

The meetings usually begin at 8:00 o’clock and
are over by 11 :30 or 12:00 at the latest. After
three hours of folk dancing everyone is ready to
go home without further ado. People drift out,
promising to meet again in two weeks, saying
good night. The newcomers have been invited to
the next meeting at least seven times, and made to
feel that they will be really welcome. “And so to
bed” with happy thoughts, looking forward to the
next folk dance meeting.

"Get in There and Pain+"—| Didl

( Continued from page 406)

thin. Fortunately, the second and third attempts
with different subjects were more encouraging,
but whatever the results, disappointing or soul-
satisfying, painting was completely absorbing.
Time fiew, and I had to discipline myself not to
paint in the mornings even for “just a minute,” or
nothing else would get done. Even an artist must
feed her family!

No artist, however, would admit me to the inner
circle. I painted in a most unorthodox manner.
My stance —I With the makeshift drawing board
prOpped against a wall in the dining room I usually
got down upon my knees on the fioor to add “just
that touch.” A newspaper spread on the rug was
fine for paint and palette. This was a little incon-
venient for backing away for the view and I some-
times found myself crawling about on all fours.
No, definitely, this was not the proper picture of
an artist, dressed in smock, palette poised on arm,
brush held at arm’s length!

Painting from nature must be fascinating. So
far, lacking gasoline and time, mine has been done
in the (dining room) studio, using sketches from
books, bits from magazines, some imagination and
a little from memory. Copying has been valuable
in teaching me how artists work, and originality
seems to come with added experience. Perhaps
this summer during vacation I can paint with real
mountains and trees, streams and fields for sub-
jects. I_’.m-still just “daubing,” mixing paints in a

RECREATION

way which would surely make an artist squirm
with horror, but now and then getting a decent
color combination, and having fun. Like the magic
words, “Open sesame,” it opens the door to a
land freed of petty problems and daily cares and
creates a new world out of the prosaic one we are

l

    
 
    

used to. A tree trunk is no longer “brown ;” it is
deep red, mossy green, pinky beige. Familiar

objects and facts take on fresh interest and mean—

ing when (mentally or on paper or canvas) you
try to sketch them. Pictures and illustrations are
studied with a critical eye. It is as tempting and
challenging as a winding lane waiting to be ex-
plored—

Who would not look for enchanted places
And a path explore

Would live forever within his house
Behind a bolted door.

Toward a Community Christmas
(Continued from page 416)

An Old-Fashioned Christmas Tree—Nov. I942
A Christmas Story Comes to Life—Dec. 1942
Christmas Games—Dec. 1942
Feast of the Star—Dec. 1942
Christmas Town in M ooubeam Meadow

-—Nov. 1943
Christmas for the Birds—Nov. 1943
Decorations by the Family—Nov. 1944

Fun and More Fun!
(Continued from page 423)

Route. From comments of the men who have used
them, the booklets are going to fill a definite void
which has not been filled by other recreational
equipment.

“The simplicity of use of the games, brain teas-
ers, and quizzes, and the convenient size of the
booklet all give it a conspicuous place in the
morale division of this hospital.”

And the GI’s themselves thanked us.

“As a ‘GI Joe’ and a Philadelphia newspaper-
man, who served eighteen months as a Chief Petty
Officer for Uncle Samuel in World War I, permit
me to compliment you on the interesting and rec-
reational morale-builder booklet, More Fun En
Route—made possible through the courtesy of the
Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.”

Said another GI: “Some time ago while sta—
tioned in England Ivisited a local Red-Cross house

NOVEMBER 1945

FUN AND MORE FUN! 441

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
39.5 MARQUETTEoFDND cu LAC, ww-

 

and during my stay I had occasion to glance
through your booklet Fun En Route. The little I
had time to read I enjoyed very much and the
brain teasers, tricks, and stunts contained therein
aroused my interest. I would appreciate it if you
could send me a copy for my personal use, and if
you have any extra copies to spare, send me sev—
eral for the use of the men in my unit.”

There were many civilians, too, who were
grateful.

“I am chairman of the Military Committee in
the Testing Division of the Meter Department, and
for the past several years have always been on the
lookout for material to send to our boys. This book-
let appears to be the perfect item for boosting
morale and I would appreciate it very much if you
could arrange to send me I 50 copies so that I may
send one to each of our boys (and girls) in ser—
vice. Thank you.”

If the welcome accorded the Fun En Route
series is any criterion, World 0’ Fun will play an
important part in helping provide entertainment
for our servicemen and women awaiting de-
mobilization, or serving in the Armies of Occupa—
tion in Germany and Japan.

442 BOOKS AS RECREATION

. gacl’ #0”! [/12 War
THE NISSEN

TRAMPOLINE

puts the pepular gym and playground sport of
TRAMPOLINING back in “civvies”

O Trained and conditioned wartime

thousands . . .

0 Now ready for peacetime’s phys. ed.
and playground millions .

O A sound, scientific sport with a
lively-action appeal.

Write for Free Literature

GRISWOLD 8: NISSEN

P. O. Box 376 Cedar Rapids. Iowa

Books as Recreation

(Continued from page 410)
holiday finds us unprepared and the greater part

of it is wasted. So with our spare time, our casual
leisure. Do not let it find us unprepared. It is a
good plan to make a list of books which either
from our own thought, our own experience, or the
recommendation of friends, we feel a desire to
read. We should have one or two of these books
always at hand, and have them in mind, too, as
something which we are longing to read at the
first opportunity. I think some peOplc lose the
habit and pleasure of reading because they do not
take this trouble and make no plan, and when the
spare evening or the long railway journey or the

wet day comes it finds them without any book in
anticipation, and they pick up a newspaper or a
magazine, not because they specially want to read
it, but because they have nothing present to their
minds or at hand which they really care for. The
habit of planning ahead is essential to real culti-
vation of the pleasure of reading, just as essential
as planning is for sport or travel or games or any
of the other pleasures of life. I know friends who
are fond of sport. They choose a long time before-
hand the river they will fish or the sort of shoot-
ing they will pursue. Another friend likes travel
and plans months in advance where he will go and
what he will see. Without this forethought and
planning they would not get their pleasure, and so
it is with reading. If we once acquire the habit of
planning, we find out increasingly what it is that
we like, and our difficulty at any spare moment is
not to find some book that we are longing to read,
but to choose which book of those to which we are
looking forward in anticipation we shall take first.

 

    
   

 

» o‘o o 0 04¢ 1.“
“gnaw: D

 

Wanted! More Hobby Programs

(Continued from page 396)
— and an Opportunity

Take your ideas and offer your experience to
your local radio station manager. He will be de-
lighted to have your help. If necessary, train
yourself in script writing or speaking. But put
your talents and experience to work for radio in
some way, and let’s aim at having at least one
good hobby program in every part of this country!

Children's Christmas Program

(Continued from page 419)

Testament’s prose rhythms—the simple, singing,
rich language of the Stuart’s—into movement that
had the same dignity, the same line, the same
ability to stretch the mind and the emotions. This
moving quality was achieved by cutting to the
quick both the number of actors in each scene and
the number of movements that each actor made;
by unhurriedness; by careful groupings that
achieved simply and with what looked like un-
studied case these naturally beautiful pictures
which people commonly make when they come to-
gether in groups. The pantomime told its story
with economy of line. But, in spite of the func—
tional clarity of each “stage picture” no one of
them was allowed to remain static long enough to
give the audience that feeling of sympathetic ri-
gidity that comes from watching people trying to
hold a pose for too long a time without moving.
Small, natural motions added validity and natural—
ness to everything that happened on the stage.

In coStuming, too, simplicity was the order of
the day. Colors were bright and clear, silhouettes

RECREATION

 

“PERSONAL AND UNOFFICIAL” 443

were carefully designed for accurate representa-
tion of the time and the character. Only in the
case of the Magi was there a suggestion of ornate
richness. Their costumes became, properly, an
adjunct of characterization—almost a part of
' “plot.”

The program was a spectacle without being
spectacular—a spectacle that depended for its emo-
tional pull upon sincerity and reverence.

"Personal and Unofficial"

'( Continued from page 411)

Everyone loves flowers. You see men, women,
and children carrying large bunches of them. They
are in every home and they are quite beautiful.

Games and Sports

Australians are out—of—door people who swim,
play tennis up to middle age, and then bowl on the
green until their legs give outl In matters of
sports the Allied Sports Council has been very
successful, bringing large numbers of people from
the English, Dutch, Australian and American
forces together on a pleasurable basis, thus help-
ing to cement international relationships. Un-
doubtedly America and Australia will be much
closer together in understanding each other after
the war. I look forward to seeing an American—
Australian competition in many branches of ath-
letics. The Australians are marvellous swimmers
and tennis players. They like cricket and play it
well. This, by the way, is a social game, and takes
all day.

Football, by Australian rules, is one of the most
exciting games I have ever seen. It takes a great
deal of skill, agility, accuracy, and leg power. The
players drop-kick a hundred yards, jump four feet
straight up into the air to catch the ball on the fly.
This, called “Marking,” entitles the catcher to a
free kick. Passing is done while on the run, and
by drop-kicking.

We have been teaching the Australians basket-
ball, softball, and baseball, which they like very
much. They get a tremendous amount of enjoyment
out of hearing Americans razz the umpire and
the players. They call this “barracking,” and it is
not considered quite sportsmanlike. However, at
the boxing matches, which were very exciting,
they forgot this, and I heard the “diggers,” (Aus—
tralian soldiers) cheered on to “get the Yank.”
The finals of the tennis championships were much
more sedate. A high-ranking Australian General

NOVEMBER 1945

IUDE
YOUR
HOBBY

with these

HELPFUL

Elem

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .8150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Cbarles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by CIIarIea CarIaon . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Cbarlotto Young. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKETCHES, by Charlotte Young . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by CharIcs Carlaon. . . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Cbarlea Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00
PRACTICAL FASIIION SKETCIIES,byCharIotte H.Young 1.00
CARTOONING IS A FUNNY BUSINESS, by S. B. Faicr 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION, by Arthur Zaidcnberg 1.00
PRACTICAL IIOME DECORATING, by EIrnnor Lee. . . 1.00

'HOUSE or LITTLE aooxs

80 East lll'h Street New York. N. Y.

 

gave out the prizes to the winners and made a
short, beautifully worded, clearly enunciated, and
intelligently conceived speech. He expressed the
wish that we, who are lighting together for a com—
mon cause, should know and understand each
other. With Australia and America only thirty-
two hours apart by plane, there should be some
postwar competition in all sports.

We should send someone to! Australia to learn
their game of Australian Rules football. The field
used is 180 yards long and quite wide in compari-
son with ours. There are eighteen players on a
side with only one substitute, for they do not be—
lieve that having substitutes makes a good game
because it becomes a question of numbers rather
than playing ability or stamina. They use some-
thing of a player position pattern. Four goal posts
are at each end of the field, the center ones being
much higher and without crossbars. Six points (a
goal) are scored for kicking the ball through the
center posts, and one point (a behind) for kick-
ing it between the center posts and the outside
posts. Often the score may mount into hundreds
of points. From the spectator point of view the
game is exciting and simple to follow, but it

444 FROM “RACES” T0 “RICHES”

l New Sargent Books I

THE CONTINUING BATTLE
For the Control of the Mind of Youth

168 pages, red silk cloth, .I
gold stamped, $1.50 

“A good and stirring book,” Charles A. Ellwood,
puke U. “Keeps me up at night following the shoot-
ing stars and wondering what is to come next,”

Charles Beard.

HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS
29th edition, 1945. ’

I 1024 pages, red silk cloth, $6.00
Describes or lists over 4,000 Private Schools

 

BETWEEN TWO WARS
The Failure of Education, 1920-1940

608 pages, black morocco cloth, $55.00

—..—.—4_—_—— .-.— .—

“A stupendous and devastating critique of Ameri-
can education,” Earnest Hooton, Harvard. “Rousing

statements have behind them an immense amount of
research,” L. A. Ross, U. of Wis. “It’s an earth-
quake,” George Cless.

Circulars and Table of Contents
I on Request

PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street, Boston 8, Mass.

 

 

would be my guess that from the players’ and of—
ficials’ viewpoints it is complex and rough and
tough. The crowd has no compunction about
heckling the umpire or officials, but evidently feels
it is poor sportsmanship to razz the players. Ex-
cept for racing, this is the most popular profes—
sional sport, drawing crowds of 100,000 people.

Everything considered, the average Aussie is
more of a sportsman from the spectator and player
angle than the average American. Municipal and
private, plus club tennis courts, golf courses, and
bowling greens are everywhere in evidence and are
used by everyone—from school children to very
old people, and by girls and women.

 

—.

From "Rags" to “Riches”
(Continued from page 402)

For each production the Board of Governors
appoints a director, who in turn chooses a produc-
tion staff. Director and staff are responsible to the
Governors for the whole production. It has been
traditional policy to have a different director for
each of the four major productions in any season.
Each director is paid $100.. A stage carpenter re-

ceives $50 for making and setting up the scenery.
Beyond this there are no paid workers in the
organization.

Income is derived solely from the sale of tickets
which, in the 1945—46 season will be priced at
$1. 50 for four productions. Tickets may also be
procured for individual performances—provided
there are enough seats to go round after the mem—
bership has been accommodated. Forty-seven
thousand season tickets were sold in 1944-45 (each
show played five performances) and requests for
600 more had to be refused because- the capacity
of the theater had been reached. Financially,
Kenosha’s Little Theater is comfortably independ-
ent now, thank you! It has contributed gener-
ously to Red Cross \Var Relief Funds, and holds
$3,000 in war bonds.

Plays are produced in one of the schools, The
auditorium seats about 1,000. The stage is well-
equipped. Here such plays as Outward Bound,
The Male Animal, There Shall Be No Night,
Papa Is All, and scores of others have brought the
best of Broadway and the “Tributary Theater” to
the citizens of Kenosha. Before each production a
bulletin is sent out to the whole membership, the
mailing list being based on the season ticket sales.
The bulletin describes the play to be presented and
adds notes of personal interest concerning mem-
bers of the active group, present or in absentia.

Program

However, the program of the theater does not
stop with the four productions that it puts on each
year. It is not content to reach its public only
across the footlights. Its program activities go
beyond the so-called “season” into a year-round
program. Meetings are held once each month. At
that time members of the group compare notes,
speakers from outside the theater discuss some
phase of drama, one act plays are given, new plays
are reviewed and discussed. The members are
enthusiastic, always eager to give their time and
their energy for the improvement of the monthly
meetings. It is, perhaps, more than a little indica-
tive of the spirit of the group that the name of the
director of one show is apt to appear somewhere in
the list of crew members for the next production
but one.

Contribution to Community Activities

Perhaps one reason for the ever-increasing sue-
cess of Kenosha’s drama project has been its par-

RECREATION

NOW OFF THE PRESS! 445

Now Off the Press!

OME of the readers of RECREATION will remem-

ber the interest aroused by the address on Rec-
reation at the Harvard Union by Viscount Grey of
Fallodon during his visit to this country. As
Howard Braucher says in the foreword of the re-
cently published booklet containing the address,
“Few addresses are considered significant enough
to be reprinted a quarter century after their de-
livery.” Viscount Grey’s is one of these, and
coming as it didaat the end of World War I, it has
Special significance at just this time.

It is a pleasure to announce that the National
Recreation Association has received permission to
reprint this address. Copies of the booklet under
the title Recreation may be secured from the As-
sociation at 60¢ each. Every recreation worker
and official; everyone interested in the recreation
movement will want one of these booklets for his

library.

We are sure you have followed with keen inter-
est “The Community Recreation Center Quiz” pub-
Iished in the October and November issues of
RECREATION, and that you will be glad to know
that reprints are available at 25¢ each.

 

 

ticipation in other community activities. Here is
no “ivory-tower” little theater. This theater has
become a community force, for it has gone far
afield in its program. Most little theaters live only
during the brief moments when the house is
“lighted.” In Kenosha, the members of the or-
ganization are available for presenting skits on a
variety of patriotic occasions. They prepare pro-
grams tq help instruct volunteer workers about
fund solicitations. They have given full-scale pro-
ductions as well as cuttings for servicemen at hos-
pitals near-by. Townspeople do not hesitate to
come to members of the group for guidance in
manifold projects where a special experience of
drama would be valuable.

Looking Forward

And so Kenosha boasts that it has the “biggest
little theater in America,” and rests its claim on
its record. The project has taken many hours of
hard work on the part of many individuals, and
will continue to do so. They seem to like it for
they are making plans for new conquests in the
future.

NOVEMBER 1945

THE IMPROVED
OCCUPATIONAL
THERAPY JIG SAW

Designed in cooperation with the lead-
ing therapists.

swear - EASY-RUNNING . FOOLPROOF ’ l-
4! A,

Tubular steel frame-Comfortable, . &
3-wayadiustablechair-Aluminum "
work table and
pedal wheel 0 Sim-
plified saw mount-
ing with special
safety devices.

ONE WEEK
FREE TRIAL

Order now for early de-
livery. Price: $89.00 com-

plete, F. O. B. St. Louis.
Write for decriptive folder.

   

 
  
  

 
 
 

   

  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
  

  
 
   
   
   

5733 McPherun Avenue 0 Si lwis 12, Missouri

Always, they feel, there must be new growth.
Personnel comes and goes, and there are many
changes. But the future must be protected to
insure a continuous progressive success based on
a foundation already firmly established. So, plans
are now under way for developing a Children’s
Theater production in addition to the regular four
plays a year schedule now in operation. It is
hoped that this step will lead in the future to the.

establishment of a regular Children’s Theater in
Kenosha.

Museums for Children

( C ontinued from page 401)

make possible the attendance of many children un—
able to travel long distances. One children’s mu-
seum recently moved from temporary quarters in
a blighted neighborhood and one with a high de-
linquency rate to new quarters in a more central
part of town. While the change was desirable in
many ways, the director recognized that it was not
entirely good. The children of the earlier neigh-

446 MUSEUMS FOR CHILDREN

 

 

you Gan Use—

THE IOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St... N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

W

borhood were no longer able to crowd into the
museum, or even visit it occasionally, because of
the distance. In the new district the children came
from homes able to aiTord independently much in
the way of equipment and private instruction.
And, as the director remarked, “Those Mexican
children did so like to work with color and

pottery.”

In many communities juvenile delinquency is
reported out of control. In still others where it
was never before conSpicuous it has mushroomed.
Junior museums and junior departments of adult
museums are part of an integrated approach to
this problem. In a community fortunate enough
to have a museum program for children, parents
can work to secure for it better than subsistence
diet. In an area without such a program, the
establishment of one under an appropriate insti—
tution should be considered.

While junior museums thrive under a variety of
auspices, Mrs. Laurence P. Roberts, Director of
the Brooklyn Children’s Museum states, “I feel
that children’s museums which are in some way
connected with a large organization have a much
better chance of contribution to the community
than if they are set up as separate institutions. The
Brooklyn Children’s Museum has its own Curator-
in-Chief, its own building, and its own government
that is largely autonomous; yet it has the- many
advantages that come from its close association
with the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences
and the Brooklyn Central Museum.“ And this

Iirm backing and the additional resources are re-
fiected clearly in the wide-reaching activities and
influence of the Brooklyn Children’s Museum.

At the Santa Barbara Museum of Natural His-
tory, Santa Barbara, California, a flourishing
junior department has its own building with speci-
mens to be handled and with exhibits of both the
live and traditional sort. The separate building is
important, for research members will look more
kindly on a junior branch if they are reasonably
protected from its noisel At the same time the
junior section derives the many benefits tliat come
from the large museum’s stai’f, exhibits, and wealth
of nature study material.

If you can, visit a junior museum or the junior
department of an adult museum. To see the chil—
dren absorbedly at work in such a museum is to
feel with Ernest Thompson Seton, the naturalist
and artist, a regret that there was no similar op-
portunity in your own childhood.

Izaak Walton to the Rescue
(Continued from page 424)

his substance for the rare and, especially in war-
time, scarce materials which make up the multi-
tude of feathered lures used in the great game of
angling with the artificial fly. This he himself
could do.

He proposed the idea to the Philadelphia Naval
Hospital. It caught hold from the start and he
now has a dozen ardent devotees attending class
regularly and more who drop in from time to time.

He bought out of his own pocket material—
some of which comes normally from China and the
East Indies, and much of which—hooks, silk, wire
and tinsel ——contains critical war material. He
“put the finger” on friends to provide the materials
he couldn’t get himself. Today, duck wings, pea-
cock “eyes,” silk thread, crewel wool, raw silk,
rare gamecock necks from the Orient, underwing
feathers of the Mandarin Duck, bucktails, boxes of
various-sized tempered steel books, a half—dozen
fly tying vises and a dozen or more other gadgets
make a pleasant litter on the battered table which
serves as a classroom.

Around the table sit a retired Army lieutenant
colonel, whose hands were suffering from arthri-
tis; a Mariiie sergeant, and a Navy chief petty
ofi'icer suiTering from battle fatigue; another chief
petty ofiicer with impaired hearing; a man who
has losta-leg, and another who has lost an arm.

RECREATION

 

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 447

puma" r YOUR HOME FROM

TUBER ULOSIS

.HRIS MAS SEALS

 

The one-armed man presented a problem. Fly
tying takes both hands for experts as well as
beginners. But the teacher found a special spool
which keeps pressure on the tying thread while the
man moves his one hand to adjust the feathers
and body materials being bound to the hook, and
rigged up an ingenious system of clips, which hold
the feathers and other fly materials in place while
the one-armed man secures them with tying thread.

All the pupils are not therapy cases. The
colonel is regaining normal use of stiff and pain—
ful hands, and the one-armed man is learning to
substitute one for two. The battle fatigue cases are
achieving mental and nervous calm from concen-
trating their interest on something new and dif-
ferent with great postwar recreative possibilities.
This is true of all those in the class, some having
enrolled simply because they are disciples of Wal-
ton and want to add to their postwar bag of fishing
tricks.

As a matter of fact, ‘each pupil is very definitely
tying flies for that big postwar fishing trip which
looms large in the minds of countless service per-
sonnel throughout the world. It has loomed even
larger, as can easily be imagined, in the eyes of
those who have become disabled. Some want to go
after trout; some favor the cattail-hngging, bloCk-
buster, largemouth bass of the deep South, 'while
others dream dreams of Middle Western small-
mouth bass and muskelonge.

The flies tied for each type vary, of course, lend- '

ing to the classroom table a fascinating variety.
Delicate trout flies come into being side by side

NOVEMBER 1945

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker (

 

MAGAZINES

Journal of Physical Education, September-October 1945

Competition for Tomorrow, A. M. Harding

El Paso Co-ed Club, V. M. Carey
Results of Industrial Survey, J. S. Whitmore

Dutchess “Industrial Athletic Association Proves
Boon to Recreation, Weldon McCluskey

Pencil Points, September 1945

The Acoustics of Music Shells, Henry L. Kamp-
hoefner

Journal of Health and Physical Education, September 1945

Requirements for the Master’s Degree in Physical
Education. Jack E. Hewitt

You’re the Umpirel Major Alfred Fleishman

Modern Dance . . . An Experience with Junior High
School Girls, Lenore M. F oehrenbach

Arizona Police Review, September 1945
Playgrounds or Pachucos, Lewis H. Adams

PAMPHLETS .

Youth . . . in the Rural Community '

Youth Section, American Country Life Association,
734 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.
Price 10 cents

Annual Recreation Report, 1944
Playground Bureau, City of St. Paul, Minnesota

Municipal Stadium
City Plan Commission, Kansas City, Missouri

with the feathered frogs, brilliant bucktails, and
streamers favored by larger and more voracious
species.

The lieutenant colonel has been a fisherman all
his life. A veteran of the last war, he put in three
years of this war with the Selective Service Divi-
sion of the Army before a cardiac condition ac—
companied by arthritis forced his retirement. He
hasn’t been able to go fishing for some time and
won’t be able to go this year. But his hands are
regaining normal action and he hopes to try his
luck next year with a box well-stocked with lures
of his own making.

The chief petty officer whose hearing was im-
paired is learning to tie flies as a hobby while he
undergoes ear treatment at the hospital, and there’s
many a Texas bass will learn to his sorrow that
he was‘ an apt pupil—so apt, in fact, that he’s now
chief assistant.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

We Have Tomorrow

ByéZAOIBIa Bontemps. Houghton Miinn Co., Boston, Mass.

NY BOOK THAT HELPS one group of peOple tO under-
stand another group living in the same society but

set apart by superficial differences Of creed or color is
important. We Have Tomorrow is such a book, for it

tells the stories Of twelve young colored ' Americans in-

their efforts to make a place for themselves in an en-
vironment tOO often hostile.

Things to Make from Odds and Ends

By Jessie Robinson. D. Appleton Century Company, Inc.,
New York. $2.00.

MOST OF THE “THINGS TO MAKE” which Jessie Robinson
describes in pictures and words do not require special
talents. The book should prove valuable tO anybody who
likes tO make things or who, in these days of scarcity is
looking for substitutes for the old standbys in craft

materials.

Let's Have Music

Ecl$it_e61 by Marie Oliver. The Womans Press, New York.
.3 .
THE SUGGESTIONS made in this booklet addressed tO pro-
gram planners in the Y.VV.C.A. are equally valuable
and interesting for any group that uses music either
formally or informally in its program. A special section
on copyrights and the whys and wherefores Of ASCAP
should be “required reading” for anyone whO considers

public music performances.

Creative Art Crafts

By Pedro deLemos. Book Two. Davis Press, Inc., Wor-
cester, Massachusetts. $3.75.

PROJECTS IN CARDBOARD, woodcraft, clothcraft and metal-
craft are described in this profusely illustrated book.
Five hundred projects make up the material for text and
pictures. There are many ideas for leaders of craft

groups.

Mother Goose Handicraft

By Nina R. Jordan. Harcourt, Brace and Co., New
York. $2.00.

HERE IS A BOOK OF HANDCRAFT suggestions designed to
interest small children. The stand-up toys are well
within the scope Of the younger members of a handcraft
class, the materials required are simple and inexpensive,
the instructions are given in phrases within the under-
standing of the age tO be reached.

Football Guide I945

A. S. Barnes and Co., New York. $.50.

THE AUTUMN SEASON brings the A. S. Barnes publica-
tion of the ofiicia'l rulings on football drawn up for

1945 by the National Collegiate Athletic Assoéia'tion.

448

Manual of Minimum Standards

for Camps

Greater Boston Community Council, Boston, Massachu—
setts. $1.00.

THE COMMITTEE ON CAMP STANDARDS of the Camp Sec-

tion of the Greater Boston Community Council has
prepared this camping guide. Though the guide is de-
signed especially for organization camps serving children
from the Greater Boston Area much of its material will
be Of interest to camp directors in general.

Bed and Bored

By Lawrence Lariar. W'hittlesey House, New York. $1.98.
ERE IS A BOOK to amuse the convalescent. Puzzles and
brain teasers of various unusual kinds are included
and guaranteed tO help pass tedious hours for the not—yet-
well-again.

\ It's Fun to Be Safe

By Herbert J. Stack and Geraldine Huston. Beckley-
Cardy Company, Chicago. $.85.

HERE IS A BOOK planned tO make safety interesting for
children in the third to the fifth grades. In story
form, it suggests many of the safety hazards that young—
sters meet without realizing the dangers involved. Photo-
graphs and drawings help tO pOint a moral and'tO adorn
the tale.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUGHER, President

JOHN G. \VI NANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-PreSident and Secretary Of the Board

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAucHRR, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchhurg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan Cit , Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. .
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARI. E. MILLIKEN, Augusta. Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodhury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINAN-r, Concord, N. H.
‘STANEEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

RECREATION

