Building the' Community

RE YOU ONE who says, "I am a hard-headed, practical recreation man. I do not know much

A about these $64 words. What I do know about is baseball, softball, swimming, singing.

orchestras, dramatic clubs. I know when children are having fun. I know when grown people

are doing what they want most to do. I am not so sure about all this talk about end-results and
by-products. All I know is when things are going well and everybody seems happy."

But when every twenty-five years the whole world hangs on the verge of destruction, when
the best and strongest young men die on foreign fields because we have not learned to pull together
quickly enough, if we in the recreation movement have a contribution to make toward the building
up of a sense of world community we ought to take a few moments' time to face just what our con-
tribution is and what is involved.

Not much else is more important right now than the sense of community in the world, in the
nation, in the locality.

How shall we have a sense of world community except as we have somehow gained a sense
of local community. of local neighborhood? How shall we think in terms of world community
except as we have practiced thinking in terms of the local neighborhood in which we live?

Most people of the earth have dreamed of a Kingdom of Heaven. Can such a dream have
great reality except as we have thought and practiced living happily together in our own neighbor-
hoods? We the people must live together now as well as hereafter.

And how are we to practice this sense of community, of local community, so that after all
we shall know how to live in the world we have finally discovered to be so small?

One way to develop a sense of community is through the recreative way of life, through
sharing one's recreation in the neighborhood, in the local neighborhood center. Much as we all care
for our daily bread and shelter and clothes and work. we care most of all for our daily life. If we
share, really share, what 'we care most for doing, what we call our recreation, then we build toward
“the community of God.” As a unifying force in the minds and hearts of people recreation makes
a great contribution. Those who play together, sing together, hike together. make things together.
attain in its truest sense a community of feeling. The sense of community begins right down in the
neighborhood, as people share their joys and sorrows.

Music and art and drama and adventure and romance are not something to dream about for
another world, to be shared only when we have reached some future estate, but right now also, as
we help to build the Kingdom in our own neighborhoods.

Choirs from the churches in the small town sing together in the community chorus at the
community center. Groups from all parts of the village unite in the great dramatic play that sym-
bolizes the life of the village from early times. Athletic contests bring all the people together and
fuse them into one great united group, and a sense of community is gained in the American town,
the American village, as in Athens in ancient Greece in the time of Pericles.

The community is what we the people make it. The community is what we build as we
learn to share our strength and joy together.

How shall a man love God, Whom he hath not seen, except as he love his neighbor, whom

he hath seen? How shall a man recognize the Kingdom of God, “God’s community,” except as he
has come to know a sense of community right where he lives?

We are, as the San Francisco Conference is held, at a decisive moment in the history of the
world—perhaps more decisive than any. of the great military battles of the past. The whole world
labors now, as a woman in travail, to bring forth a sense of community. Without it we the people
of the world are lost. We turn unconsciously to religion and to recreation to help us build a local

and national and world community, that all may live, that we may not perish from the face of the

earth.
HOWARD BRAUCI-IER

JU NE I945

113

  

O
( l
|

i.
p

C mum}! Madison Square Bay: Club .

RECREATION

  

7:
.¢
3‘.
I
I

I

 

Strategy for Growth

the direction of Elizabeth and Don Oscar

Bec'que will open the I945 season in July. The
Camp is well located in the Delaware W'ater Gap
region with the Pocono Hills for background.
Girls ranging in age from nine to eighteen will
work in an environment which will widen the
range of their capacities and give them clearer
direction and purpose.

There is a growing sense among all who are
interested in children that the arts play a strategic
part in personal growth and development. The
constant stimulation to which children are exposed
today carries with it a stirring mass of ideas and
feelings. These must find an outlet if wholesome
growth is to take place. The arts offer the means
by which children can express their thought and
emotion in satisfying form. Particularly through
the theater, with its opportunities for companion-
ship in sharing and pooling of effort, will young
pe0ple find satisfying achievement. The arts offer
a way of combining past heritage and knowledge
of the present into new patterns of meaning
through imaginative action.

THE THEATRE AND DANCE ARTS CAMP, under

Program

Because they believe
these things, Elizabeth
and Don Oscar Becque
have made “arts
through theater”
the heart and
core of a camp
program.Young-
sters and staff mem-
bers work coopera-
tively in a community-
centered environment
toward achieving
“world-mindedness
through firsthand ex-
perience in. creative
living.” A program has
been worked out to
assure each camper a
“spiritual” diet of feel—
ing, thinking, and
physical activity in
proper balance. Each
camper is given the

     

JUNE 1945

chance to become an active and responsible mem-
ber of a group, to find satisfying ways of express-
ing herself in relation to her own world, and to
learn something about the forces that motivate and
control that world.

The program is six-sided. Through the dance,
its physical techniques, its ancient, folk, and modern
forms, and its compositions, the campers find a
whole new approach to their own experience.

The theater with its movement and sound, color
and construction, has always been a wonderland—
especially for young people who have not yet
learned to shrink in self-consciousness from their
twin heritage of wonder and amazement. Campers
plan and write scripts, learn to speak clearly and
well, learn to act, to make scenery and costumes.

Through music, the campers learn to sing in
chorus, to play simple instruments, to make their
own musical compositions—talents which, in turn,
add their colors to those theater pieces that are the
center of the summer’s creative work.

Charcoal, tempera, pastels, outdoor sketching,
abstract constructions worked out directly in vari-
ous materials, and modeling help give campers
the feel for form and color and line, for mass and
Chiaroscuro.

Music, dance, theater, the plastic arts are as
surely means of communication as are radio and
newsprint. The campers are led to use all art
forms to communicate ideas and emotions. The
goal is freedom of creative expression within the
disciplines set by a given medium. Before eight
weeks have gone, the most timid camper has begun
to satisfy her urge to create in one or more art
forms.

Throughout the camping period the emphasis is
upon growth and development. It is not expected
that the camper reach “professional” standards. It
is important that she explore all the mediums at
her disposal, that she have an experience with them
so broad and so intimate that she can work with-
out let or the hindrance of ignorance within the
method of improvisation. For this is the method
campers use when they take their first steps toward
composition in the various mediums.

The Delaware Water Gap section is rich in his-
tory and folklore. Folkway-gathering excursions
give the campers an interesting and vital common
background of experience for creative work. Each

115

llo STRATEGY FOR GROWTH

week regular times are set aside for sharing ideas
and experiences in group discussions. In these
sessions ideas grow by attracting other ideas,
thinking crystallizes into plans for action, misun-
derstandings are corrected, and new information
becomes the seed of new ideas. The discussions
are democracy in action.

Process

The campers are typical young girls with eight
weeks of smnmer vacation set aside for camping.
They are, for the most part, husky, normal ado-
lescents, most of them not especially proficient in
“artistic” fields. But they have a normal share of
artistic potential—emotion and intelligence and the
need to express both creatively.

Most of the campers will not have known each
other before. They need time for getting acquainted
with each other. There must also be a time for
getting acquainted with the several art mediums,
for exploratory attempts at expression of thought
and feeling. These attempts are individual and
usually not too serious, but they form an invalu-
able means for communication among groups, a
means for making possible the group effort in the
theater and in all the other mediums.

In the meantime, a body of conscious experience
is being built up by the group. The life of the
camp itself with its work and recreation, the study
of events as they are daily detailed in papers and
magazines and over the radio gradually help build
a common background. The exploration of the
countryside and neighborhood, its folk-ways, work
patterns and origins, particularly stimulate com-
mon thinking and feeling toward group creativity.
All this becomes the means whereby the individual
can become part of the group and, in turn, through
the resources of the individual the group experi-
ence can grow. Back and forth, the ball of experi-
ence is tossed between the individual and the group.

The process by which the campers create a
theater piece begins with the discussion of an ex-
perience, an idea, a phrase, an activity of so much
significance to each one that the group as a whole
wants to express their feelings about it in creative
action. This, the germ of what will eventually be-
come theater, is discovered and clarified in group
discussions. Through discussions this same germ

is explored until each person concerned has a wide
and deep understanding of it.

Once the understanding is achieved the group
is ready to begin work on the two first mediums
used in constructing their production-winovements

and sounds (which may be words sung, spoken or
chanted or may be produced by some outside
means—musical instruments, for example). These
two, movements and sounds, fiow into and out of
each other, each reinforcing the other in the proc-
ess of theater-making. But, perhaps because peo—
ple have so recent a tradition of using words alone
to express ideas and emotions——-hecause this tradi—
tion has overlaid the far older one of using move-
ments and other kinds of sounds to tell of an ex-
perience———freedom of mediums other than words

must be learned before free interplay between all of
them can begin.

Improvisation

It is not difficult for very young children to ac-
cept the use of improvisation for this is a means
by which they can experiment with their world and
grow to be a controlling and active part of it. As
they grow older they tend to become self-conscious
and have to be led gently back to the spontaneous
use of physical improvisation and to the spirit of
play in the other art mediums.

When the group engages in physical activity
resulting from a common feeling about an experi-
ence which has been shared by all, and as each

typical motion patterns grow and refiect a rhythmic
understructure giving the group a unity of motion.
The sound accompaniment, if sound is used, weaves
a framework in and around and under the move-
ment either heightening the activity or leading it
into new directions. The moving forms then take
over again and carry still further the unfolding
activity of the group. So, sound and movement
interact and develop through mutual give and take.
Both are inspired and guided by the force of the
feelings and ideas about the original activity-
theme.

The girls learn to find new shapes and patterns
for the human body. They discover the rhythm of
their own bodies. They learn to be sensitive to

group rhytlnns and to order that rhythm to fit
their inner need or to adjust their bodies to the

The difiicult spots encountered in improvisation

then become the easily understood basis for later
technical drill and discipline, of problems solved
consciously as they come to light.

Realization of the Idea

Once the girls have lost physical and emotional
self-consciousness and are no longer “afraid” of

( Continued on page 156)

RECREATION

 

By S. THEODORE WOAL

 

1’ TEP RIGHT UP, Ladeez and Gentlefolk.” The
barker—in high silk hat, long tail coat, and
handlebar moustache—bawls his old, old in—

v1tation with all the skill of the professional—and
much more enthusiasm. His invitation is Open
sesame to the world of freaks and fireworks. hot-
dogs and ice cream cones, games of skill and
chance, fun and fancy run riot. In his domain are
the fattest and the thinnest, the six—teed wonder,
the man ten feet high. Gaily decorated concessions
are there, and Indians afoot and gypsies on horse—
back, cowboys and farmers and city slickers, pho-
tographers with their tintypes, concessionaires and
their sideshows, turtles lined up by their trainers
ready for a race. Carnival!

A carnival it is, but a carnival with a difference.
The barker, the freaks, the concessionaires, the
photographer, the gypsies and Indians and city
slickers and all the rest are members of Camp Airy
and Camp Louise, boys and girls from eight to
fifteen.

More than 700 campers thrill to fun and enter-
tainment of their own making. Their eyes——
laughter—filled, their obvious joy, the enthusiasm
with which they toss darts at inflated balloons and
exhibit prizes won are Fitting reason why the car-
nival has taken a high place in the traditions of the
camps, why it is a highlight of camp season.

From the beginning, the carnival has been a
cooperative and democratic enterprise. It is initi-
.— ated, planned, organized, developed, executed by
the campers under counselor guidance. ’ Thezcamp

JUNE 1945

Consultant, Camp Airy
Thurmon’r, Maryland

 

is organized by bunks. Each bunk elects a repre-
sentative to the camp council which exercises all
the functions of government necessary to the com—
munity. This system is a “campway” originally set
up at the request of the campers. And it is this
system which is brought into play when carnival
time rolls round.

Part of the fun of the carnival lies in the sus-
pense of wondering what it will be like this year.
In order to preserve the atmosphere of mystery
and surprise, plans aren’t even whispered about
until five days before the show. Then the council
puts its machinery to work. Chairmen, elected to
head committees, call on the campers at large as
their staffs. Responsibility is, however, clearly
understood to be centralized in the hands of the
council members. A list of concessions is pre—
pared and each representative selects one, subject
to the approval of his bunk.

At bunk meetings, the choices of concessions
are submitted for approval. Plans are made and
campers are detailed for the construction. outfit—
ting, and operation of the booth. The representa-
tives bring the bunk plans to the next council
meeting and a master plan of organization and
operation, based on the individual plans and the
additional suggestions of the council as a whole,
is drawn up and forwarded. to the director of the
camp for approval.

\Vhen the master plan is approved, the actual
work gets under way. In putting the plan into
action the camper has complete freedom of expres—

117

118

sion. He is encouraged
to improvise and sug-
gest. Barkers write their
own spiels. Tumblers
make their own set. The
glee club writes songs.
The campers create cos-

 

tumes. Conferences are
held between the com-
mittee heads and the

counselors about the placing of orders for materi-
als and equipment necessary for the construction
and operation of the concessions.

The activities of the various departments of the
camp are well integrated. Campers seek the assist-
ance of the crafts department in constructing
equipment, of the art department for graphic illus-
trations. The dramatic department trains the
barkers, the athletic department helps tumblers
and acrobats perfect their technique.
The music department trains the
glee club and helps the rhythm band
in its rehearsals of carnival music.
The newspaper committee works on r '
the special carnival issue of the
camp paper, reporters interviewing
the “artists,” the chief barker, the

production manager, the major \ I
domo. The publicity committee I,
paints signs and posters advertising *"

the great day. The entertainment

committee solicits talent. The

finance connnittee designs some form of script to
be used for admission to the booths and for the
purchase of refreshments. (The purchase of script
is limited to fifty cents a person. This is sufficient
for the evening’s fun. The venture is usually self-
supporting. Should a profit accrue it is contri—
buted to some charitable organization.) Everyone
is busy and happy.

During this stage of the preparation, the camp’s
routine swimming and rest periods are used to
counterbalance the tendency to over-excitement
and consequent fatigue. Twilight and evening
mass activities are tuned to the carnival Spirit, 'but
they are planned to quiet rather than to stimulate
excitement. Nevertheless, enthusiasm rises in pro-
portion to each idea suggested by the campers, to
each nail driven into a carnival prop, to each
word composed for a carnival song.

Saturday is a busy day. The booth construction
crews from each bunk assemble after morning
cleanup with hammers and nails, rarin’ to go.-

CAMP CARNIVAL

Under the supervision of the council construction
committee, booths are erected and outfitted. Dis-
carded Indian blankets, kept especially for this
purpose, crepe paper, hunting, and a hundred odds
and ends appear. Game boards are installed. The
electrical crew strings colored lights and streamers.
The publicity committee puts up billboards and
posters. By noon the carnival grounds are a mass
of color.

The afternoon rest period is prolonged as an
added precaution against fatigue. At flag lower—
ing, one or two of the features of the carnival and
the chief barker appear in full costume for the
first time. The barker gives his spiel on the fun
in store for the evening. The special carnival
edition of the camp paper is distributed during the
evening meal. Only ice cream for dessert keeps the
campers in their seats until supper is over!

Seven P. M. The grand parade! Cowboys,
gypsies, the wild camper from Borneo
in his cage, other attractions line up.
The major domo leads the rhythm
band. The march to the carnival
grounds begins, campers cheering on
the side lines. The king and queen
of the carnival (elected by popular
vote) are crowned. The entrance
tape is cut. The Show is on!

The carnival uses the diverse in-
terests and skills of all the campers.
It gives to each one status, a feeling
of belonging, of having made a con-
tribution to everybody’s fun. From the six-toed
freak—the bit of the show—to tbe'lad who car-
ried the nails and held the hammer when the
booths were built, each camper’s peculiar gifts
have been recognized and put to their proper use.
In almost every aspect the carnival can further
the central aims of the camping program—guid-

' ing young people toward creativeness, self-reli-

ance, cooperation, responsibility.

W hen the last hot dog and ice-cream cone has
been eaten, the last “side-show” closed; when the
band has played its final number and the campers——
‘ a bit reluctantly, perhaps
, -——have put out their lights
\ U '2 and gone to sleep; when
“T - the long day is over at long
, M last, and the carnival has

passed into the pleasant

limbo of happy memories.
the members of the staff can feel
that they have done a good job.

RECREATION

OOH-

 

So Went the Summer

ETOURS are always more ex-
citing than highways; the
unexpected more exhilarating than the fore—

seen; or, if you prefer Burns’ words to those of

Northway, “The best laid schemes of mice and
men gang aft a-gley.” With‘ such a thesis to de-
fend, let me tell you about our summer.

We go camping. I use the verb, not the noun.
deliberately. “’e have no camp (for definition
thereof see government regulation number 96B-
7810K2 or whatever it is in your state), we have
simply a cabin (14 feet by 12 feet), a few tents,
two magnificent outdoor fireplaces—handbuilt by
us and our more easily influenced friends, and
chains and chains of little lakes set in the pine
woods of northern Ontario. We camp for about ten
weeks each summer and during this time we are
hewers of wood, drawers of water, luggers of ice,
stokers of fires, amateur foresters, and enthusiastic
canoe trippers. Man’s basic needs, they say, are
shelter and sustenance. The shelter is adequate——
at least the roofs don’t leak—and the sustenance is
sufficient—at least we think our meals are very
good. For the entire summer these are prepared
on the outdoor fireplaces and after one has cooked
210 meals (to weeks, 7 days a week, 3 meals a
day—you do it) for two to fifteen people one looks
at the campcraft books with superiority if not with
scorn. And we fear the campcrafters would look at
us with both scorn and superiority for, let me con—
fess, we do not soap the pots nor lay the twigs,
fuzz sticks and larger timber according to any
recognized designs. But, by heaven, our fires go—
usually.

Of course we have an indoor stove for rainy
weather. It has four holes, an oven that has never,
never reached 300 and a wood box that has ac-
quired a bad case of neurastheuia and never gets
“het up” over anything. As we bought it second-
- hand for $7.50 from the brother of a well-known
camp director, this is not surprising. we treat it as
an ornery child and when it ruder pufis torrents
of smoke into the little cabin we feel like a couple
of loving but ineffectual parents saying to a small
child, “My, I am disappointed in you.” Conse-
quently, unless there is a hurricane or a snow
storm. we cook outside. This gives us our basic
exercise requirements, for the refrigerator is lo—

cated behind the house, the fireplacesat the side.

JUNE 1945

By MARY L. NORTHWAY

the dishes inside the front door
and the main dining table several
yards to the front. Inefficient, very, and we are
always going to do something about it. In fact
every guest suggests it, but actually it’s terribly
efficient. Everyone else has to take guests walking
or climbing or paddling to be sure their muscles
are benefitting by the summer opportunities. We
only have to allow them to get a meal. This sets up
a deplorable competitive spirit, for as everyone
wishes to provide a meal a little better than every-
one else, we benefit appreciably.

\Vho are we? \Vell, there’s Flora, who runs a
nursery school all on the best established scientific
principles and there’s me who teaches psychology
to wide-eyed university students, and there’s Bingy
who’s a Boston bull, very clever. very coy and a
credit to neither a nursery school principal nor a
psychologist. However, he is an excellent camper
and can swim magnificently. Then there are guests
of various ages and abilities, and during the sum-
mer there are twelve campers. They come in
groups of six and we take them on canoe trips and
because we have them we are allowed to call our-
selves members of the Camping Association and
talk of “our camp.” Both Flora and I have been to
camps for years. I started as a small child and I
loved it. Everything from sleeping on the rocks
to learning to tie ten knots intrigued me. I would
never have stopped going except for the fact that
in later years I became so involved in designing
record systems and arranging who should go

. where, when and with what equipment program

directing, I believe it is called) that one day a
child in a surprised voice said, “Gosh, have you
ever cooked bacon and eggs outside?” So then I
decided that if I was ever going to go camping
again before rheumatics set in I had better begin
now. So we did.

Think of it, oh busy camp director, ten weeks

with nothing to do but swim and build and plant
trees and go on two canoe trips. No priorities
to worry about, no problems of getting personnel,
no advertising, no bookkeeping except in an exer—
cise book, and no program to organize. N 0 money,
you say. N o, no money except to meet expenses
and, ha, ha, no taxes either! N o counselors’
meetings! and nocook to rule us. No talks on

119

120 50 WENT THE SUMMER

“the psychology of adjust-
ment" and no Sunday ser-
mons.

W'hat is there then? Ten
weeks with infinite time for
loitering interrupted only by
trees that always need clear-
ing, trails that must be cut
and improved, lakes we have never explored,
canoes that always have to be painted, shelves just
asking to be built, wood which must be cut and
berries that have to be picked. Then there are
maps which have to be followed, books which beg
to be read and a gramaphone with records from
“The Saint Matthew" to “Oklahoma,” and of
course there are the campers and the canoe trips.

Each spring we look forward to a long session
of leisurely loafing with hours and hours for bask-
ing in the sunshine and for reading all the litera-
ture befitting a professor of psychology and a
nursery school director. Each summer I intend to
make a .very intensive study of the psychology of
the adolescent, using our twelve as suitable case
material, and Flora promises she will prepare
papers on the equipment and nutritive require-
ments for a seven day canoe trip. Last year I
toted up “The Principles of Systematic Psychol—

ogy” (964 pages) and Flora took “Nursery School
Education.” Somehow. as soon as we.pass the

city limits our I.Q.s fall by 30 points. and we
begin to suffer from the delusions that theories of
psychology and the preparation of papers for
learned societies are unimportant (What utter
nonsense!) and that the only realities lie in the
planting of pine trees and painting the cabin. The
psychiatrists, I believe, call these sudden changes

in sets of values a crisis situation. If so, we have ,

two each summer, one when we go north, the
other when we come back. My only worry is I am
never quite sure which is the delusion and which,
oh my erudite friends, is the truth. (Are you?)
If our plans for intellectual pursuits are frus-
trated by our temporary (?) lack of intelligence,
our plans for restful leisure are likewise defeated
by all those things which simply must be done.
Compelling motives I believe these are called. For
instance, there was that lovely summer afternoon
entirely devoted to the roasting of a chicken. It
happened like this. Some friends of ours were
driving up the highway that passes the end of the
lake. Like all our friends they believe we are
slightly out of our minds, which may be true, but
unlike others they apparentlyabelieVed,r-in addition,

"No counselors' meetings and no cOok to
rule us. No talks on 'the psychology of
adiustment' and no Sunday sermons." Of
such a camp as this and of its ioys Mary
L. Northway wrote in November I944 for
The Camping Magazine. Her story of
just going camping is reprinted by per-
mission of the editors who "saw it first!"

that we must be starving,
which is never true. Anyhow,
they left a basket-filled-with-
goodies-for-the—deserving-
poor with Henry. Henry
keeps some tourist cabins up
by the bridge. He can’t see so '
good and he’s had his leg
broken in nine places, but he is our counselor,
philosopher and friend. He also fells our larger
trees and conveys his own version of the latest
war news from his radio to us so we always know
that “the Germans ain’t doing so good" or “the
Russians be doing real fine now.” Anyhow,
Henry brought us the charitable basket containing
one quart of maple syrup, one bar of bitter choco-
late, one bottle of maraschino cherries and a
chicken. Also a note from our friends apologizing
for not being able to come in themselves. (I fear
they knew the relative locations of the refrigerator,
the fireplace and the china and were afraid.)

A chicken is not a treat in our lives; it is an
event. We have cooked practically everything in
our dutch ovens from nine pound roasts to apple
pies, but none of us had ever done a chicken over
an open fire. (\Nas our campcraft training de-
ficient? Or have you i’) I got our cook books.
\Ve have two: the Boston, which Flora once gave
me for Christmas and I, expecting a rousing novel,
was disappointed, and the Pocket, which I bouglit
and often read in rest hours. “I e looked up
Chicken, roasted, stewed, fried, fricasseed, and
pie, and decided roasted. \Ve looked up stuffing
and we three (Helen, who also runs a nursery
school, was with us) organized the preparation.
Then, to our horror we found the chicken had not
been drawn! Much to our despair we discovered
that nowhere in our very wide training in psychol-
ogy’ and nursery education had any of us ever
drawn a chicken. Nor did Barbara Ellen Joy's
complete articles or Catharine I-Iammett's ABC's
of camping give us any clue. However, a psycholo-
gist who is never baffled by a conflict situation
should never be by a mere chicken—indeed our
whole training prepares us to draw things out——
so I simply looked up the index of the cook book,
found fowl—methods of drawing, read the instruc-
tions clearly and carefully twice to Helen and
Flora, and then went for my afternoon siesta. At
three-thirty when I awoke they were still looking
for the lungs. Supper was delicious—except for
the fact that the chicken’s legs fell off when we

ZZContiimcd on page 154)
RECREATION

 

Adventure in Democracy

ORK FOR WORK’S sake rarely
Wappeals to the adolescent boy

or girl. Creative work with a challenge is
enthusiastically hailed by young people. Boys will
be eager to spend hours over a hot stove and girls
will lay floors and shingle roofs if there is a reason
and they have been in on the planning. This has
been the experience of Camp Juvenile during the
past six years. Camp Juvenile is a co-ed. coOpera—
tive work camp, designed for adolescents only.

On the first day of camp everyone meets in
Council. Staff members as well as campers have
only one vote apiece, and
wherever possible the staff
remains in the back-
ground. After a brief dis—
cusssion on cooperatives,
their successes and fail-
ures, the Council sets up
its own laws. When shall
we start the day? At first
everyone votes to get up
at eleven o'clock. No one
discourages this idea, but
as the activities of the
day are planned, every-
body suddenly realizes
that there won’t be time,
so rising time is gradu-
ally pushed back to seven
o'clock. Thus we set
schedules. safety and
health rules, social con-
duct procedures.

Then the major work
projects are considered.
\Vhat, in the way of con-
struction, is needed most
or first? Can we afford
it? Is our construction
counselor skilled for the
particular work consid—
ered? Before the day ends
each cabin chooses a Sen-
ator. The Senators meet
in the morning with the
staff members and awork-
ing schedule is arranged

IUNE 1945

By LOUISE ADLER

together. Every camper takes his
turn in the kitchen, at cooking, serv-
ing, dish washing, cleaning; And every camper is
assigned to a constructive job. Three construction
projects are kept underway simultaneously so that
these assignments can be tailored for skill and
physical endurance to the individual camper. Each
boy and girl spends two hours a day on construc—

(Contimrcd on page 165)

Building a path at Camp Juvenile

 

What They Say About Camping

younger generation may recapture some of the

values precious to men of olden times and
almost forgotten by the city dweller. Every child
has a right to the ancient heritage of strength and
joy that Flows from emotional experience of na—
ture’s moods."—From Camping and the Commu-
nity.

11' N THE SI‘MMER CAMP there is a chance that the

“The most valuable parts of a camp program
are those in which there is the greatest possible
camper participation."—From C an: ping with C rip—
pled Children.

“If one were asked to choose the most desirable
objectives for camps, the development of tolerance
and understanding of the viewpoints of other peo-
ple, the development of work habits and skills, and
of physical and mental health would stand high on
the list."—Ge0rge F. Zoolc.

“The end of camping is not that we be cease-
lessly active out of doors, but that activities be
selective and gradual, and that they find their ex-
pression on trails that have no end.”—Fr0m
Camping Today, Camp Fire Girls.

“Camp can meet the need of a camper for friend-
ship, appreciation, group association, and adven-
tnre; for the satisfaction of curiosity and for new
experience. That setting which helps him in these
satisfactions becomes meaningful and is charged
with a compelling drive to act, to do, to live."—

Lonis H. Blnnienthal.

“The camper learns the trees and plants and
wild life. He sees the wonders of the skies and
knows something of the mystery of the stars. . . .
He knows how to live comfortably in primitive
conditions. He is healthy; he is natural and spon—
taneous and, trained in the game of clan, learns to
be loyal and considerate.”—Detroit Recreation

Camp.

“To me camping means the educational and rec-
reational process of understanding and enjoying
natural conditions, putting man against nature and
discovering the freedom which lies in compliance
with what are literally the laws of nature, and

spiritually the laws of God.”-—-Charles_l‘V._Elliatt [11¢ ’ ‘

122

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
  

"No camp can have a complete camp program
without art . . . for it takes art to round out the
astonishing experience of living out of doors with
friends.”——Abl3ie Graham in lVorleing at Play in

Summer Camps.
‘.

a

“The all-inclusive objective of a camping experi-
ence is to make the life of the camper healthier,
richer, and happier.”—From The Child Goes to
C am p by Sidney J. Crowley.

“That camp is educating for spiritual growth
whose members live' in an atmosphere of vitalized
beauty. where . . . that inner wealth which makes
creative activity possible is being constantly en-
riched by association with rich personalities.”—
From The Place of the Organised Camp in the
Field of Education.

“Camp activities grow out of the child’s neel
To visit the heron rookery on an island he must I '
able to canoe. There cannot be safe canoeing wit -
out certain ability in swimming. To go swimmi
he must obey certain food laws. Each step is -'
vital part of his existence. Out of such experience
come growth.”—William G. Vinal.

“This then. is the role of camping today—thk
promotion of joy, health, social growth and educa
tion, all toward the end of training intelligent, in'
formed, functioning citizens in a democracy ac;-
complished through living in the out of doors undo
guidance."—From Camping Jlfagas'ine. ‘

“Realization is coming that camping is close akit
to all our efforts to rebuild society and rehabilita in
our civilization. All youth should be taught ho '
to live the good life.”——-Carlos lVard in Organize.
Camping and Progressive Education.

“Camping with children has tremendous possi-
bilities for feeding the bodies, minds, and spirits

and for making them grow.”—From Camping
Today.

“Camping has served to give a new meaning t
education, lifting it from a cloistered world of
theory into one of realism and everyday experi—
ences. Camping- has operated as a liberalizing and
progressive force in American education."

—John W. Studebaker.

RECREATION

Research and Restoration by Boys

A T THE BEGINNING of the nine- By ALBERT B' HINES village seemed to be an ideal proj-

teenth century the W'appin— Execuiive Di'ed” ect for some of the boys of the
Madison Square Boys' Club

Club. During the winter they could
New York City

go researching for the information

ger Indians were still camp-
ing near Carmel, New York. In

1812 their last settlement was dis- that would enable them to do the

banded. W'eather and time obliterated all traces of actual reconstruction when summer came.

their sojourning. But the legend of their unhappy The boys dug into the history of the W'ap-

tenancy lingered through the years. pingers and gathered as much information as pos-
Some 130 years after the last \\"appinger camp- sible from written records preserved inolibraries.

fire had burned itself \\“hen they had digested

out, a group of boys, this data they went to

Cooking after the manner of the Wappinger Indians

1

'1

3 s

 

. "EO.N*:I‘:?& ‘  a“;  -  y  . . .

’"ff‘3’i ..1‘3“~:.‘:¥-:~.. "'
under the direction of an older leader interested in the Indian Museum and studied there a model of
lndians and their lore and customs. began to seek an Indian village. They learned their lesson well
out the available facts about the \Vappingers and enough to reproduce the model in miniature.
the confederacy to which they gave their tribal In the early summer—before camp open"ed-—-the
name. The boys were members of the Madlson youngsterswent to Clear Pool on weekends. \Vith
Square Boys' Club. The Club’s directors had de— the help of the caretaker they cleared a level. spot
cided upon a new educational project for the Clear on the lake shore about a hundred yards away
Pool Camp, whose property lay over the original from camp. After camp opened they lived on the
\\'appinger site. A reconstruction of the Indian (continued 0,; page 16,")

JUNE 1945 123

Camping and Governmental Agencies

HE TIME IS COMING when
Tcamping experience will be

considered a normal part of
the experience of every American child. Educators,
social workers, recreation leaders, and health
authorities recognize the values of the organized
camping program for youth. How the camping
experience can be made available to more Ameri-
can youth and how the objective of simple living
together in the out of doors can be attained are
problems to be faced in the postwar period.

During the war years camp facilities have been
crowded to capacity. Many cities have been un-
able to care for the great numbers of young people
seeking a place in camp. Higher incomes, with
fewer opportunities for family vacations because of
parents in service and industry, are no doubt
largely responsible for this demand for camping.

As during prewar years, camping opportunities
have been available to the “well-to—do” through
private and organization camps. Social agencies
have provided, at more moderate fees, camping
experiences for the so-called middle classes, with
some inclusion of youth from the lower income
groups. Some welfare camps have provided good
camping for the handicapped and for children un-
able to pay camp fees. However, the percentage
of youth having the opportunity to participate in
summer camp programs is still small, and even the
moderate fees of some camps are prohibitive to
many children who might profit from camp ex-
periences.

From 193 5 to 1937 it was estimated that eighty-
two per cent of American family groups earned
less than 32.000 a year. A family of five in such
an income group would find it very difficult to
provide any but the most modest camp fee. Though
postwar income levels may be higher, many families
will still find camps too expensive a luxury for
their children unless some
financial assistance to camp-
ing is given so that it can
function at a lower cost, there-
by making possible the inclu-
sion "of children who would
profit most from such ex-
periences.

It is evident that if camping

124

By REYNOLD CARLSON
National Recreation Association

This summary suggests some of the ways
in which governmental bodies—municipal,
county, state'and federal—are concerned
with camping. with particular emphasis
on what local governments are doing.
No effort has been made in this discus-
sion to mention the part schools may play
in camping, as this phase of the move-
ment is still in the experimental stage.

.is to be made available to a sub-
stantial percentage of American
youth, public assistance will have
to be provided. Such assistance will not mean a
decrease in the camping programs of private camps
and social agencies. Instead, all of these should
profit from the increased interest in camping re—
sulting from the development by public groups.
Private agencies will generally have something
distinctive to offer in terms of leadership, facilities,
and program. Moreover, most public programs
will, in all probability, provide a short-term taste
of camping rather than a complete camping ex-
perience.

Municipal Recreation Departments and
Camping

The Recreation Year Book of the National Rec-
reation Association reported 228 different camps
being operated by municipal recreation agencies in
1942. These figures include youth camps, family
camps, and day camps. Some of the camps on the
Pacific Coast have been in operation for more than
twenty years and have experimented with various
types of camp programs and organization. Some
municipalities provide camp facilities for the use
of other agencies. In addition to the camps oper-
ated by municipal recreation agencies, there are
special camps operated by public welfare and
health agencies, generally for handicapped or
special groups.

Municipal Family Camps. The majority of the
larger Pacific Coast cities operate family camps,
some of them in as many as three separate locations.
Often these camps are located on U. S. Forest
Service property where, under long-term leases,
the cities erect the necessary facilities. In other
cases the property is purchased by the city or
operations are carried on on leased private lands.

The use of each camp is
generally limited to residents
of the city supporting it, and
the rates are generally so
fixed that the operating cost
of the camp is met or very
nearly met by such fees. Fa-
cilities are generally simple.
In many cases families live

RECREATION

CAMPING AND GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES 125

in house tents that may be taken
down and stored during the win—
ter months. Meals are served by
the camp so that mothers will not
find it necessary to spend time
cooking. The camp program
varies greatly. Some events are
planned for camp groups—eve-
ning campfire programs, organ-
ized hikes, excursions, and some
social events. Generally campers
are free to do as they please in
family groups or groups of friends.
The camps of the cities of Oak-
land, Berkeley, and San Fran-
cisco, California. are good exam—
ples of this type of family camp
program.

Increased pay, a short working
week, wages on an annual basis,
and vacations with pay in the
postwar world will affect the vacation habits of
great numbers of city dwellers. They may make
possible family camping on a much larger scale, if
such camping can be made available at a moderate
cost. Increased facilities for low-cost family camp—
ing may well be in great demand in the postwar
period. We are in great need in America of cn-é
couraging those things that families can do together.
Because vacations of working parents are generally
short and school vacations long, attendance at
family camps will Still allow plenty of time for
children to participate in organized youth camping
programs.

Children's Camps. A great number of cities
operate children’s camps as a part of the municipal
recreation programs. In some of the western cities
these camps are operated in conjunction with the
family camps. The city of Oakland operates 'its
children’s camp in an area adjacent to its family
camp. ' Other cities operate separate children’s
camps with much the same type of program as
that found in the camps of the semi-public youth—
serving agencies. Such camps may be designed to
care for children from families of low income, al-
though the majority represent a fairly good cross-
section of the youth of the city. Rates are generally
somewhat lower than those charged by most camp-
ing organizations, and usually some extra funds
are made available from private sources to care
in whole or in part for the expenses of children
who would not otherwise be able to afford the fee.

The following descriptions of children’s camps

JUNE 1945

'

 

1
Courtesy Detroit Department of Park: and Recrcarian

Blanket irouble

of two cities indicate patterns under which others
may also choose to operate:

Columbus, Ohio. Camp Indian Village is a
city-owned and operated camp located on the
Scioto River about eight miles from Columbus.
The 1944 season was the eighth year of its
operation by the Municipal Recreation Depart-
ment of Columbus. One hundred children and
leaders can be accommodated at one time. The
summer is divided into five two-weeks’ periods,
with two periods assigned to girls’ groups and
three to boys’. The periods are designed to ac-
commodate different age groups, so that the
early summer periods care for the younger chil—
dren and the later periods the older. A fee of
$7.00 per week is charged each child.

Battle Creek, Michigan. The Kellogg Foun-
dation of Battle Creek has developed three
camps on lakes within a few miles of the city.
On these areas the Foundation has for some

' years been experimenting with school camping
on a year—round basis and summer camping by
special groups. During the year of 1943-44, all
the students of Lakeview School were provided
with a two weeks’ camping experience at the
expense of the Foundation.

It has been the intention of the Kellogg Foun-
dation to experiment and then to encourage

‘ local community groups to deveIOp their own

126 CAMPING AND GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES

camping programs. One of the steps in this

direction was taken last summer when the St. _

Mary’s Lake Camp was turned over by the
Foundation for a five—year period to a newly-
created St. Mary’s Lake Camp Association.
This Association was organized on a county-
wide basis with two superintendents of recrea-
tion and three superintendents of schools on its
board of directors. The superintendent of rec-
reation of Battle Creek was appointed director
of the camp. The Community Chest of Battle
Creek made $6,000 available to defray any
deficit in operation for the first summer. A fee
of $10.00 per week was charged each child.
Children were registered for two-week periods.
Funds were secured from local civic clubs to
provide scholarships for children who could not
afford the $10.00 fee. In its first summer of
operation, six two-week periods were desig-
nated, thus providing a camp experience for
nearly 600 children, as the camp could accom-
modate about 100 children at each of its periods.
Both boys and girls were in camp at the same
time.

Day Camping. The greatest expansion in the
municipal camping field during recent years has
been in the field of day camping. Sometimes such
camps are operated in city parks on a neighbor-
hood basis, with the camps located near enough to
the children’s homes so that the transportation
problem is not a major consideration. In other
cases the camps are located in outlying areas, with
transportation provided by public utilities or by
buses owned by city or school departments.

The term “day camping” in its best sense means
a camp—type program of outdoor living carried on
for an extended period of time with the same
group of children participating throughout that
period. In many of the day camps children hike,
swim, participate in nature and camp craft activi—
ties, cook their own meals over camp fires, conduct
campfire programs with singing, informal dra-
matics, and similar activities.

Excellent day camps have been conducted in
areas with limited natural features where leader-
ship has had vision and ingenuity. The more nat-
ural the surroundings, however, the easier it be-
comes to make a worthwhile camping‘experience.

Day camping often serves as an introduction to
camping for many children and helps them develop
interests and skills in outdoor living. In many
cases it leads to the desire" 'to participate in the

organized camps away from the city. One of its
chief advantages lies in its relative low cost and
the possibility of reaching great numbers of chil-
dren who would not otherwise have camping 0p—
portunities. Yet day camping is not necessarily a
mass activity. Probably many small camps should
be operated rather than fewer large camps.

Many cities are now considering the develop-
ment of specific day camp areas and facilities as a
part of their postwar planning program. Such
plans should include provision for leadership and
transportation as well as proper areas. Cities that
can provide transportation as a part of their pro-
gram will find much greater success, particularly
when outlying areas are used.

In many cities the city parks are being used by
other agencies in their day camp programs. The
Girl Scouts in particular have done a great deal
with day camping and have in many cases found
city and county park areas suitable for use by
their groups. Cities might well give more consid-
eration to providing the right kind of areas for
these groups to use and to giving all encourage-
ment possible to the development of their programs.

Cities Provide Facilities for Use of
Other Groups

Some cities have found it wise to provide facili-
ties for use by other agencies rather than to oper-
ate all of the programs themselves. The Los An—
geles High Sierra Camp facilities have in recent
years been made available to organizations within
the city in order that they might come in with their
own leadership and program. Such groups as the
Y.W.C.A., the 4-H, church groups, P.T.A., and
others who did not have facilities, of their own or
who needed more facilities than those they Operated
found this camp an excellent place for their pro—
grams.

Other cities as a part of their postwar planning
are contemplating the development of facilities and
areas for the use of such groups or, in some cases.
are planning the securing of areas with a mini-
mum of developed facilities for the use of groups
interested in primitive camping. Every city needs
in its environs places where small groups—a scout
group, a church club, or just a group of older
boys—can go for overnight or week-end camping.
Safe water and adequate garbage and sewage dis—
posal may be all that is necessary in some places.
In other places it may be desirable to have shelter
varying fronfthe open Adirondack type to a lodge

RECREATION

CAMPING AND GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES 127

type equipped for winter camping, to accommo-
date fifteen or twenty people.

County and Regional Contributions to the
Camping Field

There has been a definite trend toward county
and regional park and recreation developments.
Union County Parks in New Jersey, Dade County
Parks in Florida, the Metropolitan Park System
in the Cleveland area, the East Bay Regional Parks
in California, the Cook County Forest Preserves
in Illinois, and the Milwaukee County Park Sys-
tem are six such units that have made contribu-
tions to camp facilities and areas. In most cases
their facilities have been used by day camp groups
and for week-end or short—term camping. Some
of the developments of this type, however, offer
great promise of providing camping facilities near
,large centers of population. Generally they have
the advantage over city park systems of providing
more natural areas that lend themselves to better
camping.

In most cases these county park systems do not
operate camp programs themselves but do provide
facilities for others to Operate. Many of them now
have or expect to have naturalist services and
trailside museums that would be a great addition
to camp programs.

State Agencies and Camping

Several state agencies have made contributions
to the camping movement. Notable among these
are the state parks, and the extension divisions of
the state universities. State park areas and, in
some cases, complete camp facilities have been
provided for the use of camp organizations.
Through the state universities help has been given
to the 4-H camping movement, and in addition
many universities have given leadership training
courses and technical help in the development of
camp facilities and programs.

Federal Agencies and Camping

The federal government, through various depart—
ments and divisions, has increasingly manifested
its interest in seeing that camping opportunities
are made more widespread. The Children’s Bureau
and the U. S. Ofiice of Education have both eu—
tleavored to stimulate camping on the part of
schools, other local public agencies, and the social
agencies. They may well, during the postwar
period, he expected to exercise their influence in
the expansion of camping opportunities.

JUNE 1945

4

Extension DIVISIon. U. S. Department of Agricul—
ture. For many years the Department of Agricul-
ture has been giving direct assistance in the camp-
ing field through the 4-H movement. The pro-
gram operates through the extension divisions of
several state universities. Camping has been or—
ganized by the extension division specialists for
4-H youth, older rural youth, and adults.

U. 5. Forest Service. The U. S. Forest Service,

' particularly in the west, controls some of the areas

best suited to use by organized camping groups.
In many national forests camp sites have been
leased to private, semi-public, and public agencies
for camp developments. The trails. roads, camp
grounds, and other facilities have also been of
inestimable help in the programs of camp groups
in or near the national forests. In addition to pro-
viding areas, the Forest Service has furnished
organized camp buildings and facilities for lease to
agencies operating the program. It has here been
the policy of the Forest Service to provide a basic
facility, while the program is administered en-
tirely by the operating agency.

U. 5. National Park Service. The development of
fifty-two recreation demonstration areas by the
National Park Service during the 1930’s was one
of the most significant facility developments in the
camping field. These areas illustrate the possible
use of sub-marginal land near large centers of
population for camping and other recreation pur-
poses. The basic facility was provided by the fed-
eral government, and at a reasonable fee was
leased to private and public agencies for program
operation. It was the intention of the National
Park Service that these areas would be acquired
by the states and incorporated into the state park
systems. As of 1944, many of the states have
assumed this obligation, although the financial
situation of many of the state park systems has not
been adequate for the maintenance of the areas.

Like the Forest Service, the National Park Ser-
vice pro'vides camp facilities for the vacationist.
These range from the well-developed camp grounds
to the most primitive areas.

Trends and Conclusions

There is a definite trend in the direction of in-
cluding camping as a part of the programs of such
public agencies as park and recreation departments.

Camping at present reaches only a small per-
centage of the nation’s children. Only through a
great increase in funds available can the camping

{Continued on page 160)

 

The City Looks to Camping

N EAL, RUGGED CAMPING." Wethersfield,

Connecticut. is a residential town of 10,000

population located south of Hartford, the
capital of the state. In 1943 the Wethersfield
Board of Education expanded its educatonal ser—
vices to include a summer recreation program, and
to this end four centers for children of elementary
and junior high school age were operated. The
programs offered at these centers were patterned
after the type of program traditional throughout
the northeastern section of the United States.

The members of the staff concerned with this
summer recreation plan decided that boys and
girls who did not have the opportunity of going
away to a summer camp should have camping
experience as part of the local program. Thus was
born the idea of the Overnight-Stay-at-Home
Camp at Wethersfield.

The overnight camp was held at Mill \Voods
Park, a wooded recreation tract owned by the
town but not yet developed for recreational pro-
grams. The agenda included swimming, sleeping
under canvas, cooking out over an open fire, camp
fire hour, and group games. '

Over a hundred youngsters of elementary school
age had their initial experience at outdoor, over-
night camping in connection with this activity in
I943-

As we look back on the experience we feel we
were of strong courage to undertake it as part of
the public recreation program. It was real, rugged
camping. Pup tents borrowed from local scout
tr00ps were pitched at the edge of the woods in a
cow pasture. Each camper brought two blankets,

(Continued on page .158)
128

CHILDREN'S SUMMER CAMP. During the_

summer the municipally—operated camp can

be the answer to many a war working
mother’s problem concerning a vacation for her
children away from the city. Families who formerly
went to the country or to nearby lakes for their
vacations were unable to continue the practice be-
cause of gas rationing, the employment of mothers,
and other conditions.

Detroit’s Children’s Summer Camp located
about forty miles northwest of the city, covers 314
acres which includes a forty acre lake and ten
acres of woods. Many improvements have been
made in the facilities and arrangements, and a
beautification program has resulted in a very at—
tractive camp layout.

The camp was operated as two separate units
with the boys’ camp on one side of the lake and the
girls’ camp on the other, each with a capacity for
200 campers. Children between eight and fifteen
years of age were eligible.

No campers were accepted for less than a two-
week period, thereby eliminating three round trips
for the busses during the summer. The fee charged

was $24 for the two-week period. The camp oper-
ated for eight weeks.

Children were transported from Northwestern
Field every sccond Tuesday. On arrival at camp
they were examined by the camp physician, their
ration books were collected, and they were as-
signed to cabins according to their age group.

Each cabin was in charge of a counselor who
was the “camp parent” during the child’s stay and
lived in the same cabin with his “children.” For

(Continued on page 159)
RECREATION

Fun
in the Sun

By P. E. KARDES
Chicago Park Disfricf

AY CAMPS have sprung up in many
places over the country in response
to the need among youngsters for

camping experience that cannot, for one
reason or another, be met at regular sum-
mer camps. Day camps inevitably vary
from community to community. Many
smaller towns can find camp sites which
differ relatively little from the sites of the
summer camps and which allow for full
nature programs and for similar activities.
In other instances, in the large, congested
cities where tranSportation systems during
these war years are overcrowded and space
is limited, it is not possible to take children
each day to the “wide open spaces.” That
these boys and girls need to have some
camping experience as much as any others is self-
evident.

Even though day camps in large cities must
necessarily “skimp” a little on some parts of the
program, they can do and are doing much, through
adaptation of the day camping program, to fill a
need in the lives of city-bound boys and girls. This
is evidenced by the work of the Chicago Park Dis-
trict which, in 1944 operated seventy such pro-
grams in the various parks of the city.

As a first step in planning the 1944 season, a
committee of park supervisors and instructors
prepared a mimeographed pamphlet suggesting
methods and procedures covering publicity medi-
ums, registration of campers, facilities (physical
equipment and properties), organization and ad-
ministration, program activities, health and safety
together with sample schedules of camps operated
in previous years.

A short institute was held for instructors who
were to work in day camps. All of these instruct-
ors were skilled in specific fields. The institute
covered subjects with which certain individual in-
structors were not fully acquainted such as drama,
music and singing, crafts, nature lore, and junior

IUNE 1945

. L vwwff“ #5.: "
I I “9- i if! :is b

.k ‘  ‘p "b ..
.- h‘txéwhwéég f “h; 3“
., W‘t

*

 

Photo by Chicago Park District

Hoping for a big one

first aid. Appropriate mimeographed material
covering these and many _other subjects was pro-
vided. ‘

In order to accommodate large numbers of chil-
dren with, in many instances, a small staff, the
committee made a careful evaluation of the pro-
gram to insure the best possible balance between
guided and free activities for the “campers.”

Each park planned its program in accordance
with the particular facilities and personnel avail-
able. In some instances camps were operated for
two four—week periods, giving an opportunity for
new registrants for the last period. Other camps
ran continuously for eight weeks. Some operated
on a basis of three days _per week, while others
carried on camp activities for five days, local con-
ditions governing the decision. In both cases Sat-
urday was generally a day of special events, inter-
camp competition, or trips away from the camp.

Most of the camps required that one of the

child’s parents accompany him at the time of reg-

129

1.5!) F UN IN TH 13 SI 'N

istration, when the camp program and responsi-
bilities of the camper were explained. Postcards
were used to notify parents when a child was
absent from camp, not for the purpose of securing
an excuse but so the parents would not be under
the impression that the child was at camp when
he may have been elsewhere.

Instructions to Leaders and Campers

A list of instructions for the guidance of the
leaders and also one to be given the campers at
the time. of registration were formulated. Those
used at one park are shown here.

Instructions to Leaders

1. Call all campers together for special instructions.
a. W’hen a camper enters the grounds at 9:45 A. M.
he will have constant guidance until 5 P. M.

b. Campers may not leave the grounds at any time.

r. Campers will participate in all scheduled activi—
ties and answer roll call.

d. A card will be sent to the home of all absentees,
and the campers may not return without it signed
by parents.

e. First aid will be given in case of accident and a
card sent home explaining the nature and extent
of the injuries. A regulation accident form must

also be filled out.

f. Name tapes must be sewn on uniforms, towels.
and bathing suits, and all lunches must be marked.

Fun in the sun with a sandwich

U1

6.

“K!

00

 

Photo by cart-ago Part: District

9. Regulation camp uniforms should be worn at all
times.

Divide campers into age classifications and assign
counselors.

a. Midgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8. 9 years
b. Juniors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..]0 years
6. Intermediates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..ll-12 years
(1'. Seniors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..13-15 years

. Collect all milk money, check attendance and report

absentees, pack lunches, suits, and towels in carton,
have leader report with carton to control headquar—
ters, report number of milks and turn in money at

headquarters.

. \Vhen the bugle is blown, all groups will assemble

in squads in the center of camp for
0. Pledge to the Flag

I). National Anthem

r. Short workout (10 minutes)

. Make an announcement each day telling the group

where to report for the first activity.

Tell the children, upon completion of each period,
where to go for the next activity and what it is.

. Counselors will carry with them at all times, a

complete program for the day and a roll book for
each of their groups.

At 12 noon, all campers will report to the station
where counselors and leaders deliver milk.

Two campers will be assigned each day as K. l’.’s
to clean headquarters.

instructions to Campers

l.
2. Camp will be held every Monday, W'ednesday, and

First official camp day will he Wednesday, July 5.

Friday from 10 A..\[.
to 5 P. M. with special
tours and trips on Sat-
urday mornings ; Thurs-
day evening campfires
at 8 P. M. for awards.

3. All campers are to re-
port at the field adja-
cent to the recreation
building before 101cm.

i' 4. \Vear suitable play
clothes (washable), and
comfortable play shoes
or gym shoes. A camp
“T” shirt. to be worn
at all sessions, will be
issued each camper.

5. Bring your lunch and
5 cents if you want
milk. Lunches must
have names on them
and must be checked in
with your leaders be—

fore 10 A. M.

6. Bring your bathing
suit and towel on Mon-
day and Friday.

RECREATION

FUNIN THE SUN 13]

7. Flag ceremony will start at 10 A. M. sharp.

8. The group will be divided according to ages and sex.
eight to ten, ten to twelve, and twelve to fourteen.
and assigned to counselors.

9. Campers will take part in all activities unless they .

are sick. \Ve recommend that each child be examined
by the family physician before registration for this

active pr0gram.

10. Parents are invited to visit the camp but should not
interfere with the progress of the program.

11. In the event of rain an indoor program has been
planned.

12. Do not bring or wear any valuables, as the park
cannot 'be reSponsible for any valuables lost or stolen.

13. The campers will have the constant guidance of leaders.

The conclusion has been generally reached that
it is advisable to charge each camper a nominal
registration fee to cover the cost of materials used
in craft and artcraft work and other small inci-
dentals. This eliminates the necessity of daily col-
lections and much bookkeeping.

Tags or some other means of identification are
used to facilitate checking the roll of campers at
the close of the day.

Planning and Leadership

Each camp enjoyed almost complete autonomy.
Suggestions and sample materials were furnished.
but no rules were laid down for governing the
operation and conduct of the camp. Each selected
a name which, in many instances, included the
name of the park where camp was held. Groups
within the camp often chose identifying names-r—
birds, animals, branches of the armed services.
Indian tribes.

Volunteer leaders were extensively used to sup—
plement the park staff. They were selected in most
instances from volunteers who participated in the
regular park programs. Where additional train—
ing was necessary, it was provided at the local
park.

Program

Programs varied in accordance with the physi—
cal facilities and staff at each park, but consisted of
instruction and play and, where practical. achieve-
ment tests in:

Fishing Softball

Boating and canoeing Baseball

Woodcraft Tennis

Nature lore Archery _
Amateur dramatics Volleyball

Shadow plays Track and field

Victory gardens Horseshoes

Artcraft Swimming

JUNE 1945

Water sports

Baton twirling

Low organized games
Commando courses
Tumbling

Acrobatics (outdoors)

Storytelling
Sandcraf t
Indian lore
Junior first aid
Outdoor cooking
Singing

Rhythm hands

Special events in practically all cases were plan—
ned by the campers themselves and consisted in
general of intercamp competition, picnics, camp-
fires, treasure hunts, tournaments, parades, pow—
wows, water carnivals, trips to places of interest,
circuses, carnivals, holiday programs and camp-
closing ceremonials. '

In planning the program it is important to con—
sider what properties and physical equipment are
available or may be secured and the following list
has been found helpful:

1. Ground—space and location

. Tents or shelters

Blankets from home

Outdoor grills or fireplaces
Cooking utensiIs

Chairs and tables

Games and equipment

Books and reference material

Craft material

10. Artcraft material

11. Oilcloth bags and "sitters

12. Sports equipment

13. Sand—pool or lake

14. Beach umbrellas and tables

15. Toilet facilities, showers. and drinking water
16. System for checking clothing, lunches, money
17. Display cases

18. First aid equipment and supplies
19. Roving library

20. Rowboats and canoes

21. Flag pole, flags, weather signals
22. Life preservers

23. Casting equipment

24. Council ring logs

25. Nature trails and reference material

swwgwsww

Program activities usually changed each hour,
so that on an average day the camper would par-
ticipate in six to eight different activities. In some
instances the instructors would also change groups
in accordance with his or her particular abilities.

In almost all of the camps the campers met-reg-
ularly with their counselors and leaders to formu-
late the program and to give expression to their

desires.

Free play periods were a regular part of all
programs. At these periods the children enter—
tained themselves with leaders present but in the
background.

{Continued on page 161)

Day Camp Tidbits

4 “it i); Ju

 

N THE POTOMAC. Washington is hot in sum—
mer—really hot! The heat descends like a
pall over the city, damp, palpitating as it

rises in waves from the aSphalt and the concrete.
Bodies and spirits visibly droop during the long,
humid days and the nights that never quite cool
off enough for comfortable sleep. Adult tempers
get a little ragged. Children, not conscious of the
thing that is troubling them, tend to nag when
boredom and tiredness drag at them. In the old
days when there was gas for driving and cars to
drive in, the roads into Virginia and Maryland
were crawling with cars come sundown. Driving
gave at least a temporary relief from the oppres-
sive heat. In the old days, too, children school-
freed by June were sent off to the country or the
seashore or camps, if their families could afford it.
If they couldn’t youngsters and adults alike suf-
fered in what silence and patience they could
muster.

Washington’s parks have always been “the
shadow of a great rock in a weary land.” Now
they are something more. Now they are refuges
for the small fry of the city in nine day camp cen-
ters. There are six such centers for white chil-
dren, three for Negroes. The program brings to
these children the satisfactions of the woods—
woodcrafts, nature study, outdoor cooking. Once
a week all the campers are taken swimming. They
or their parents must devise transportation to the
water, but all the swimming places are safe and
convenient and the children somehow get there.

To oversee the program and the campers there
is a staff of sixty people. Ten. days before the sea-

132

Print by Gedge Harmon

son opens this staff has a preliminary training
course. Each week they have a regular training
conference. All of them as they sit around the
council ring are deeply interested in the well-
motivated activities of the camp.

So, now, when summer approaches Washing-
ton parents look with less apprehension to the
time when school’s out, and the youngsters find
an added impetus to anticipating those days of
approaching carelessness.

Gala Thursday in San Francisco

Although difficulties of transportation have made
it impossible for many San Francisco children to
spend their vacations in the country this year the
Recreation Department has brought the country to
San Francisco.

At the Gilman Day Camp, seventy-five children
from a different Hunters Point Unit each week
spend their days in a camp-like atmosphere.

After registering at the camp upon their arrival
at 9:00 o’clock on Monday morning, the children
divide into groups numbering from seven to ten,
select their own camp sites and dig their fireplaces.
It is interesting to note that children whose homes
are situated near the water always make their camp
in the hills, while those whose homes are in the
heart of the city select their camp sites as close to
the bay as possible.

The program offers a variety of campcraft activi-
ties. The Boat House has been converted into a
craft shop where the children make flags for their
camps, and are instructed in finger painting, water
coloring, and clay modeling. All are taught how to

RECREATION

DAY CAMP TIDBITS 133

build camp fires and they take turns at gathering
wood for the fires. Hiking is one of the most
popular activities on the program. The individual
groups never leave their camp sites unguarded and
take turns at sentry duty.

A hot balanced meal is served the children at
12 :30 daily which they eat picnic style on the
lawns. At 5 :00 P. M. all return to their homes.

Thursday is a gala day at the Camp, and the
children all come in costume. Following a picnic
supper, the children and their parents gather around
the camp fire for a program of plays and skits.

The fact that the children show an average
weight gain of three pounds per child, and the
many requests for permission to attend the Camp a
second week, are indications of its success.

It is hoped at the close of the war that the Day
Camp facilities can be greatly extended to accom-
modate more children and more activities. How—
ever, for the present it is providing a real camping
experience in the country for many children who
have never been out of the city in their lives.

The Gypsies Are Here

Camp Conestoga, a gypsy camp resembling a
day camp, was opened for the first time in the
summer of 1944 at Anapamu Park, by the Santa
Barbara City Recreation Commission. The main
feature of the camp and the thing that gave it its
gypsy nature, was the mule team and wagon by
means of which the campers moved about. The
team was lent by the United States Forest Service
through Mr. Nash—Bouldon of the Los Padres Na-
tional Forest, and the wagon was lent by a local
citizen.

The camp was run on a schedule of activities
five days a week. The schedule which was change-
able to meet changing interests and activities, was
as follows: Monday—Camp meeting day. Plans
were made for the week’s activities; Tuesday—
Games and crafts; Wednesday Trip to the beach
with dinner being cooked either there or later at
the camp; Thursday—Overnight trip to some spot
within mule distance; Friday—Disbanding the
trip; Crafts and games. Almost 300 different boys
and girls visited the camp at least once during the
summer. A total of 2,436 daily attendances was
recorded. There was an average daily attendance
of 51 children. Boys outnumbered girls about
three to one. The ages of campers ranged from
two and a half years to eighteen.

The program had a much wider range of activi-
ties and hence appealed to a much wider group

IUNE 1945

 

than the usual playground program. It included all
the usual playground activities. Opportunities for
the development of democratic qualities and for
true recreative experiences were very much
greater. This type of program might well be es-
tablished in other areas of the city in place of the
usual limited playground activities.

"Homefront Rest Camp" for Decatur, Illinois.
Because so many of the children’s fathers, relatives
and friends are in service, the military theme was
used during the entire season of 1944. The woods
were converted into a “Homefront Rest Camp.”
On entering the camp, the campers assembled at
“Cassino” for an explanation of “GI. jives” and
“squeaks.” The campers were divided into “Mar-
auders” and “Wacs” and taken on “Terrain Sur—

vey” over the Eisenhower and Clark trails. While

“snooping” through the woods, the campers were
familiarized with the most common types of vege-
tation. ,

The creek which winds through the woods was
named the English Channel. At noon the Mar—
auders and Wacs gathered at Cassino for mess.
Here the campers were issued noon rations and
given instructions in fire building and cooking over
an open fire.

Competitive examinations for ratings were held.
These examinations included relays, throwing,
carving, exploring, organized games, rope jump-
ing, etc. Campers winning ratings were presented
with them by the CO. during the Court of Awards.

Each camper was given the Opportunity to par-
ticipate in a Chumfoo nature quest. The partici-
pants were given slips of paper, on which were
listed the names of at least ten types of vegetation
which were studied while hiking over the trails.
The children became members of the Tribe of
Chumfoo if they were successful in finding and
identifying specimens on the Chumfoo list. Camp—
ers who qualified as Chumfoos were eligible to
attend the Chumfoos reunion. These were over—
night camping periods and were held on the last
four nights of the camping season. For many it
was the first experience of overnight camping.

United Nations Day Camp. 1944 was a tough
summer for children in Rochester, New York.
Many of them were seeing their fathers or broth—
ers 0r neighbors going off to war—to war which,
as reality, is outside the child’s world no matter
how much it may color his play. They were rest-
less and uncertain, these youngsters. In the fever-

(Continued on page 163)

No More Water Wings!

0x3 ARE THE DAYS when
swimming was the or-

derly end-product of a
disorderly process of wading,
dog paddling, floundering
through the initial stages of a
“side stroke” learned by pre—
cept and example. In those ancient and honorable
times learning to swim was accomplished more by
good luck than good management. Now—as art
and science—swimming is taking its place in lthe
ranks of the “must” skills. Many an ole’ swimmin’
hole has disappeared into the limbo of things
looked back upon by middle. age as half-forgotten
joys. In its stead modern swimming pools, scien—
tifically equipped, hygienically chlorinated stand

ready for the season’s crop of green and seasoned
swimmers.

The Pool

It is in such a pool that Troy’s youngsters—and
oldsters, too, for that matter—learn correct form,
the basis of which is breathing. The pool is a
Bintz model, oval in shape and 120’ x 80’ in size.
Its bottom is shaped like a spoon. The water’s
depth varies from three to nine feet. To caution
non-swimmers, a life—line is extended across the
width of the pool fifty feet from the shallow end.
Numbers in block form indicate the depth of the
water at various intervals. There are ten ladders
evenly distributed around the pool making it pos-
sible for swimmers to enter and leave the water
quickly. The two diving boards, one a threevmeter
(ten foot) board and the other one meter (three
and a third feet) are situated so that they will not
interfere with each other. A sliding board at the
shallow end provides amuse—
ment for the youngsters.

The superintendent of the
pool cares excellently for the
220,000 gallons of water
which is the pool capacity.
Hourly tests are taken to
determine the alkalinity and
acidity of the water. A
double filtering system con-
tinually circulates chlorine
at the rate of sixteen pulsa—
tions an hour and rids the

134

By EDWARD A. WACHTER
Superintendent
Troy Recreation Department The teaching of various

and EMANUEL ELFENBEIN
Director of Swimming

Once upon a time learning to swim was a
matter of good luck—at least for city
people. If there were a lalre or a river
or a pool handy, boys and girls took to
it—with water wings to help them get
used to this new element. Now learning
to swim is another story. Water wings
and the dog paddle have been superseded.
and it's now possible to "learn to crawl‘
in five easy lessons."
swimming is taught in TroyI N. Y., is an
example of what can be done by a commu-
nity with an idea, imagination. and a plan.

water of dirt or foreign sub-
stances.

swimming programs are made
relatively simple by the physi-
cal structure of the pool. The
Supervisor of Swimming and
Water Safety for the New York State \Var Coun-
cil has this to say about Troy’s pool: “It is the
most practical ‘mnnicipal swimming pool in this
area. I say practical because any municipal pool
should be built with an aim to teach swimming.
This is ideal. Look how clear it is. No child
would get out of sight.”

.The pool was ready for use by 1926. For ten
summers boys and girls, men and women, wan—
dered in and out of its waters at will, to swim as
swim can or just to cool off like the hippopotomi
in a jungle stream. But'in 1936 the pool director,
with the enthusiastic support of the city’s news—
papers, inaugurated the first of many “Learn—to-
Swim” campaigns. That newspaper support was
important because it enabled the Recreation De—
partment to get word of the campaign to many
people who would not otherwise have known of it.
Every day for two weeks before the beginning of
the lessons the Record newspapers ran stories on
the advantage and the desirability of learning to
swim. And every day on the city page there was
a coupon for prospective learn-to-swimmers to
clip out, fill in, and send to the pool director. The
names thus sent in to the Recreation Department
were recorded and the people they belonged to
were notified when and where to report. In this
way hundreds of Trojans embarked upon a career
of swimming calculated surely to bring them
pleasure in the yea__rs to
come, possibly in emergen-
cies to get them out of
waters deep enough for
drowning the uninitiated.

The 1944 Season
In the summer of 1944
the Learn—to-Swim program
got off to a good start. War
workers from Troy’s indus-
trial plants were enthusias-
tic. Youth agencies cooper—

The story of how

RECREATION

 

- NO MORE IVATER IVINGS! 135

 

Ai- Troy it takes five days to make swimmers of beginners

ated closely with the Recreation Department in
giving the youngsters under their guidance 8.
chance to learn swimming through competent lead-
ership and supervision. Red Cross and New York
State War Council courses were available to
swimmers who knew the fundamentals but wanted
to develop endurance and stamina or to learn the
special mysteries of self-preservation in emergen—
cies. Such courses were taught by pool guards,
qualified Red Cross instructors, under the director
of swimming.

The Program

Each campaign is divided into two independent
periods, the first held during the third week in
July, the second during the first week in August.
Beginners who don’t quite make the grade in the
first session have another chance to pass their
tests in the second. Successful “graduates” of ses-
sion one can go ahead with advanced courses and
pass Red. Cross beginner and intermediate tests in
session two.

The program for beginners is planned to cover
live days with an hour’s class period each day.
Each class is divided into squads, the size of the
squad depending upon the number in the class.
Lessons are carefully planned by the director so
that a new goal each day builds gradually into
swimming confidence. Swimmers receive general
instructions over a microphone from the director.
Each squad’s instructor sees that the director’s

TUNE 1945

words of wisdom are followed. The director him—
self stays near the “learners,” overseeing all their
activities. Daily conferences between director and
instructors promote better teaching.

The first lesson is designed to help .the land—
bound adjust to this new medium at their dis-
posal. Each lesson overlaps the previous day’s
instruction. Here, in very brief outline, is the

five-day lesson plan: -
First Day—Mental and physical adjustment of
learners
Second Day—Proof that buoyancy exists nat-
urally

Third Day—Movement

Fourth Day—Coordinated stroking and kicking

Fifth Day—Swimming—T est for twenty—live

feet

If the program is to be successful the teaching
process should be lively and interesting, constantly
presenting new challenges to the swimmers. Con-
tests, games, wisecracks, awards of merit, inter-
views at the mike for outstanding progress lend
variety and spice to the day’s plan. Furthermore,
such devices give the shy, the backward, the reti-
cent added incentive to progress toward the goal
set for the day.

Teaching Tips

The following suggestions to staff personnel are
used not only during the Learn-to-Swim periods,
but also during the entire season:

(Continued on page 164)

Aquaparade

HE QUESTION before the house

had to do with swimming.

“What,” the members of the
Recreation Commission of New-
burgh, N. Y., asked themselves,
“what could be done to finish up the swimming
season with a real bang P” The usual water races
didn’t seem to fill the bill. There were a lot of
good swimmers in Newburgh. There were people
with ideas about pageants and spectacles. At the
moment Billy Rose’s Aquacade at the New York
World’s Fair” was the talk of the town. Why
couldn’t Newburgh borrow ideas and, perhaps,
headliners from them?

That seemed like a sound idea. But the budget
of the Recreation Commission didn’t quite run to
such an undertaking. Financial backing would
have to come from one of the civic groups in the
community. Because it had always been squarely
behind municipal recreation in Newburgh the prob-
lem was taken to the Lions Club of Newburgh.
Once that group was convinced that a combined
water show and stage spectacle was feasible, it
went all out for the idea.

Planning struck a snag almost at once when it
was discovered that neither the name nor the head-
line talent could be secured from the World’s
Fair show. But that didn’t even dampen the en«
thusiasm of the planners. A member of the Lions
Club came up with “Aquaparade” for the title, and
headliners were sought and found elsewhere.

Duties Are Assigned

Organization and preparation were cooperative.
The Lions Club divided its group into committees
including Talent and Publicity, which had the
business manager of the local newspaper as chair-
man; Tickets, for procuring, distributing, and sell-
ing tickets; Door, to secure and arrange seats and
to collect tickets; Ushers, to place patrons in their
reserved seats; Program, to raise funds via the sale
of advertising space in a souvenir program; Pr0p-
erty and Stage, for borrowing amplifyers and se-
curing props needed for the effective presentation
of the performances; Attendance, assisting in the
control of youthful local talent; and, Observation,
which made general over-all suggestions based on
visits to rehearsals.

136

C

By FRANCIS T. LEAHY

Director
Kingsbridge Community Center
New York City

The swimming pool director,
representing the Recreation Com—
mission, arranged and produced
the show. His responsibility in-
cluded the general planning of
acts to be presented, selection of music, arranging
for specialties, securing talent from pool patrons,
and scheduling and directing rehearsals. The lat-
ter were arranged with a minimum of interference
with daily swim periods. Held two or three times
a week from the beginning of the season, they of-
fered free swims and fun while learning. Discipline
problems were few since everyone was kept busy.
Each drill was planned carefully to get the most
out of the limited time available. Attendance was
taken and records kept of each session in order to
weed out those not entering into the spirit of the
thing. More swimmers were drilled than were
needed for each act to allow for shrinkage by the
night of the show. Those who failed to appear
were not invited the following year. Penny post
cards, local radio stations and newspaper, tele—
phone calls, and announcements at each rehearsal
were all used to keep in contact with the partici-
pants. The swimming pool staff assumed specific
responsibilities in connection with the rehearsal
and production of the show. The cashiers kept
attendance and records and did the clerical work
involved. The lifeguards rehearsed and drilled the
water acts. The male and female attendants kept
order in the locker rooms, and the engineer was in
charge of the stage and lighting.

The Program

The Aquaparade was arranged in four major
divisions—water ballets, water specialties, a stage
program, and Special headline talent. The opening
and closing numbefs were water parades of swim-
ming talent with a patriotic theme worked into the
closing event. Water and stage acts were alter-
nated throughout the program. The stage was
constructed at one end of the pool. All water num-
bers originated at the Opposite end. Timing and
coordination were stressed. A script for the master
of ceremonies, with cues for lighting changes and
entrances and exists, was worked out. The M. C.
rehearsed in advance.

Water ballets were organized as mixed groups

RECREATION

AQUAPARADE 137

and as separate groups of aquabeaus and aqua-
belles. They were both successful. Themes selected
for ballets were religious. sentimental, patriotic, or
romantic, and music appropriate to the theme was
chosen to accompany it. The development of the
ballet pattern began with a neat snap dive by pairs
from the deep end of the pool. Two straight lines
of swimmers, in rhythm with the music, went to
the center of the pool and there began the basic
formation of the pattern —a circle with hands
joined and arms extended. From this circle a
variety of patterns were formed with a group of
numbered key figures moving at given signals to
form, as the ballet

required, a bell, a ,_

heart, a shamrock,
or a wagon wheel.
N 0 c i r c l e w a s
needed for patterns
such as an anchor
or a cross. Two
straight lines form-
ed the basis of such
designs. Extended
arms and joined
hands maintained
tension on the cir-
cle and insured sym-
metry of circular
designs. The ballet
was completed by
returning to the cir-
cle, breaking at the
far end. and swim-
ming rhythmically
out by pairs to the
stair exits to the
lockers.

\Vater specialties
included exhibitions
by local diving tal-
ent including older
boys and young
men, young boys,
and girls. Each dive
was announced and
described by the
master of ceremon-
ies. A spotlight was
focussed on the div-
ing platform. Dives
were performed by
individuals or by

JUNE 1945

 

combinations of two or three from high and low
boards. Comedy diving provided a separate act
and required careful planning and rehearsal. The
act was brief and snappy. It included costume,
cupid, water fountain, splash, double, and para-
chute dives. Other water specialties included spot-
lighted tandem swimming exhibitions to music by
expert mixed duets, and an excellent burlesque of
this feature. Even featured performers entered

(Continued on page 166)

Section of audience watching Aquaparade show

New Adventures in Chip-Carving

craft, deserves more follow—

ers. It has, up to now, been taught in
America in its very simplest form, that of small geo-
m’etric patterns, necessarily limited in decorative
scope, and has rightly been considered an almost
childish craft. The truth is, chip-carving is capa-
ble of interpreting design of great beauty and
variety. The primary technique is the same regard-
less of the line to be carved, straight or curved.
Those of us who have experimented with the curved
line patterns find that effects can be achieved
which are almost three-dimensional because of
the perspective which light and shadow lend by
reflecting the cuts at varying angles.

Substitute knives have successfully replaced the
imported knives that chip—carvers have used so
many years. The starting point in deve10ping any
craft is to have good tools and material: in carv-
ing, sharp, prOperly shaped blades and suitable
wood. Let’s start with the knives.

The airplane knives being used for plane models
are splendid, particularly the X-Acto knife and its
accompanying blades, No. 19 and No. 22. The N of
19 blade is a very satisfactory stick-knife shape,
while the No. 22 blade, if honed down on the

C lIIP-CARVING, a very old Swiss

  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  

138

By CATHERYN ZEhBE

curved side and sharpened on the
straight edge, makes a tine cutting
knife when assembled with the No. I handle which
is designed to tit. These blades can be re-sharpened
many times, and if used with proper care, will last
a long time. The price is nominal and standard.
The next step is to find proper wood. Every
carver finds his own medium according to his
taste, strength or purpose. Most carvers will agree
that the best all-purpose wood is poplar. It is not
too hard to cut and has a pretty grain which takes
stain and finishes well, and it is obtainable. Ex—
perienced wood carvers usually prefer the harder
woods, but there is much danger in using maple,
walnut, or mahogany until one has developed suf-
ficient wrist-strength to guard against accidental
cuts in the wood when the knife—pressure wavers—
as well as the possibility of cutting the hands!
Yes, knives and wood are very important, but
there are other items of equipment, less tangible,
that one needs to have at the beginning to some
degree—the enthusiasm, self—confidence, creative
desire and patience that all worthy crafts require
and will develop to a point of inspiration if pur-
sued with enough diligence. At first, the objective

(Continued on page 160)

. H
Knives may be home ground from
ordinary kitchen knives. Mrs
Zerbe's technique calls tor the ..
use of the knives with a swing
from the' wrist for safety and
treedom. In this method the knife
is never balanced by placing the
thumb on the wood to be carved.
l
('0'. i‘m’"
-. Ll?  ’0,
.n i (I
g h- '5'
‘ m
.451
K?J5ICH)’
RECREA- TION

NEW ADVENTURES IN CHIP-CARVING 139

E
5 Wild qees’c 7(Zz/i’nq, far
 .SjmczZZ hay, boxes' 33¢,
\‘V \ L72. A/owW/geU/zy-c’amng

 

‘“ . -E2765’3q7z 14:77 doas’kn \ F V
W’C'rhod' borders-(156'. i
For'lapel. pin or btdfbn. / 
[#1 \3 i / a.
":5: /
Baiions‘ maq O
haucsrap‘leor
whittled 9,1031," [/1 72379r @8533 may be. urea/05’

aZfemai‘a MM frat/o For
(50 7513;; 21749 maiiaz'rzg 5’53’zgie,
S’Z‘r‘rjo 0/ 5ngMzz7za’.

TUNE 1945

Fourfh of July celebrafion
began wifh a parade. Three
children of a fypical cify
family march ahead of fhe
flag (fop), inspecf +he win-
ning coas’rer wagonI and

awaif fheir +urn +0 gef ice

 
  

cream which was
given at fhe park
(cem‘er). Lunch
fime. and fhe chil-
dren ioin Mofher
and Dad for a
picnic on fhe

grass (boHom).

RECREATION

Crowning Glory for the Fourth

VERY HOLIDAY celebration must have its high
E point, some event that will send participants

and spectators home with a feeling of well
being and a sense of the special quality of the day,
be it solemnity or gaiety, patriotism or holiness.
That carefree quality known as “the holiday spirit”
has a great way of “mounting its horse and gallop-
ing off in all directions,” and in the general jolli-
fication the cause being celebrated seems often to
be lost.

Such a thing is very apt to happen to a Fourth
of July “shindig.” The patriotic speeches are more
than likely to fall upon ears that are unhearing
because their owners are preoccupied with the line
times they have had or are about to have at parades
and games, picnics and races. But, after all, the
Fourth of July is our only national legal holiday.
All the others are celebrated by agreement or by
hit and miss “local option” or are decreed by
proclamation from the powers that be. Independ-
ence Day alone is set aside by law for marking the
birth of a nation. "

So, it is especially important that the celebrants
of liberty proclaimed throughoue the land should
top off a day of proper enjoyment with the con—
sciousness that they are remembering a high
moment in the life of their country. One way of
insuring this mood is to build the day’s occupa-
tions toward a dramatic presentation of the mean-
ing of freedom.

Such a program can and should be planned on a
scale commensurate with the talents and facilities
of the community. It can be a long play or a series
of short plays, a folk dance festival or a pageant or
a presentation by a verse-speaking choir or a
music program. It may be elaborate or simple,
long or short, so long as it keeps the Spirit of the
day.

There are but two “musts” for the kind of thing
we have in mind. It should draw into it as active
participants as many people and as many groups
as possible. It should be a real community presen-
tation—not just the work of the recreation depart-
ment or of some one group requested by the rec—
reation department to take over the job. Civic
clubs, woman’s clubs, churches, youth groups,
music and art clubs, museums and libraries, all the
myriad organizations whose activities are striving
to enrich urban life should have a part in the plan-

IUNE 1945

ning and production of this crowning event. There
will be enough jobs for all of them, no matter how
simple the plan, for the details that go into any
line production are endless. If each group under-
takes a clearly defined part of the whole job, if
each understands from the beginning how its par—
ticular bit will contribute to the whole show, the
production will proceed easily and smoothly to a
performance that will satisfy participants and spec-
tators alike.

The other “must,” especially as regards a play
or a pageant, is the choice of good material to work
on. A lot of poppycock has been foisted upon an
unsuspecting public in the name of patriotism.
Much that is mere sentimentality and much that is
bad drama or bad pageantry has been poured from
the printing presses and produced on non-profes—
sional stages by men of good will but little knowl-
edge of dramatic values. It is no more difficult (to
say the least) to work on good material than on
bad. The difficulty lies in finding the kind of play
or pageant that is worth the trouble of producing.
In the short play classification there are a number
of scripts that are good. Here are a few sug-
gestions:

For Country and Mankind, by Bernard J.
Reines (Longmans Green, New York, $2.25) is
a collection of twelve short non-royalty plays based
upon the lives and work of well—known men and
women. The Free Company Presents, by out-
standing American authors (Dodd, Mead, New
York, $2.00), also a collection, is a group of plays
in radio form. However, an appendix gives sug-
gestions for adapting the material easily and
quickly for use as stage plays. The quality of the
writing in these scripts is masterly. Haym Solo- .
mon, by Marcus Bach (Walter H. Baker, 178
Tremont Street, Boston, Mass., $.35) dramatizes
a little publicized incident in the American Revo—
lution. They Also Serve and If He Could Speak,
both by Harold G. Sliker (Row-Peterson, Evans-
ton, I]l., $.50 each) are patriotic dramas designed
for choric speaking. An excellent program, using
mass singing by the audience, can be worked out
around one or more of these short plays and their
like.*

(Continued on page 165)

 

*For other good short plays for the Fourth of July see
publication MP 252 of the National Recreation Asso-
_ciatton. 10 cents.

141

Education's Other Half

NCE UPON a time a hobby
O was something that just

grew along as a person
grew from seeds planted, perhaps,
in childhood. Nobody except its
“owner” paid. much attention to it. Every now and
then, increasingly during the second and third
decades of the Twentieth Century, men and women
would “take up" a hobby because the doctor’s
dictum was, “A hobby-or else!” The curative
value of an avocation was recognized-Hatter the
fact—but many serious-minded and hard—working
peOple started collecting things or making things
or doing things with an air of hang-dog apology.
Latterly, hobbies have been in more favor, because
more and more people have come to recognize the
pure joy as well as the preventive therapy that lies
in (to quote Mr. \Vebster’s fount of all knowledge)
“an engrossing topic, plan, etc.., to which one
constantly reverts.”

There is an historical background for this chang-
ing vieivpoint about what we might term “creative
play for adults.” Each of us must express our in-
dividuality if we would lead truly normal lives. In
most of us this need takes the form of an urge to
create. Before man’s ingenuity had developed tech-
nological leisure to its present high point, we could
express our individualities through our jobs.
\Vhen manufacture connoth what it meant deriva-
tivelyuhandmade—there was real creative satis-
faction in the day’s work no matter. how long or
hard the day might be. The medieval journeyman
who had, with his masterpiece, achieved full mem—
bership in his guild, was a creator whether his craft
was making shoes or settings in gold cunningly
wrought for crown jewels. When we built our own
homes and, with spinning wheel and loom, ham-
mer and saw and chisel
largely equipped them, that
need to combine the skills of
our hands and our heads
was largely satisfied.

But the first “mules” and
“jennys” that proved be-
yond all doubt the commer-
cial value of the combustion
engine started _a chain of
events that has put man’s
work into a different cate-

142

By WILLIAM L. LLOYD

Director
Cabrillo Marine Museum
Los AngelesI California

The Los Angeles Cabrillo Marine Museum is
owned and operated by the Playground and
Recreation Department for the purpose of
interesting people in nature study as a
hobby. There is nothing of more absorbing
interest than the study of some phase of
nature in an effort to find out how wild
creatures. large and smallI live; to become
acquainted with our most fascinating plant
life, or to make collections of butter-

fliesl shells. fossils. or the many other
marine and fresh-water. forms of,_|ife.

‘

gory. There is little creative sat-
isfaction in pulling a lever to set
a machine in motion.’ There is no
satisfaction at all in bemoaning
the “dear, dead days” before the
advent of machinery. But the fact remains that a
chance for self-expression is just as essential to
happiness as a successful business or profession.
A normal life should strike a nice balance between
the two.

The recreation movement has grown rapidly
because of a demand which is often a step ahead
of the ability to meet it. (“A man’s reach must
exceed his grasp, or what is he striving for ?”)
Playgrounds are offering good programs; danc-
ing, games, group activities. These forms of lei-
sure-time activity are necessary. They should be
continued and developed further. But they are not
the complete answer to thevpeople’s need for re—
creation. ..

People are ready to find new outlets for that
creative urge of theirs. The; have caught up with
the lag in thinking about the use of leisure time.
They believe that when peace comes everybody
will have more leisure. They need to be guided, to
be shown ways to the greater personality satisfac-
tions that they all want. The nation needs to be
taught hobby-mindedness. Here is a job for the
recreation movement worthy of its belief in its
own “professional” status.

The arts and crafts classes at playgrounds and
recreation centers are a step in the right direction.
IIere more and more emphasis should be placed
upon the future, the “carry-over value” of the
work being done. The youngster can be taught to
value his craft knowledge as a necessary step
toward a normal, happy life. A hobby must be
chosen as carefully as a col-
lege or a job. A hobby
should be something that
will have a life-long appeal,
something that can be taken
up at any time, in most
cases something that does
not depend upon others for
its development. Nor should
a hobby be carried on in an
off-hand or slap-happy
manner. Few of us, per-

RECREATION

EDUCATION'S OTHER HALF 143

haps, are endowed with that capacity for taking
infinite pains that marks the perfection of genius.
And certainly no hobby should be allowed to be—
come a chore because of a perfectionist attitude.
But youngsters should be taught to set up high
standards that will grow with advancing maturity
and ability. Every individual has a right to this
other vital half of education. Business or profes—
sional education is designed to train us for security
in life. Hobby education should train us for hap-
piness. The two should balance.

Perhaps “hobby” is not the best word to de-
scribe this other half of education. Many people
still think of a hobby as a collection of something
or other of great interest to the collector and full
of exquisite boredom for everybody else. Collect-
ing is often all that a person wants for a hobby.
But a hobby may also be a study of any of the
sciences, it may be a love of invention, the making
or playing of a musical instrument, painting or
whittling or keeping scrapbooks or bees or dress-
ing dolls or acting or designing sets or a thousand
and one other activities that spring from the heart
and the interest of any individual. There is no
limit to what “hobby” may include.

The recreation director can help young people
or adults to decide what is of most interest and
then help develop that interest. It does not matter
what the interest is. The only thing that matters

is that the thing be desirable for the pleasure and
the satisfaction of the doing.

Here are some of the species of geese to
be seen by visitors to the Marine Museum

5 Pd “1 arms.

,J a  a  g. 

1vhr" -— W

 

JUNE 1945

 

 Wt:

One of the inhabitants of the Museum
is a giant clam weighing 200 pounds

I‘

. \Ve could enumerate an endless list of
men through the ages whose hobbies have become
their great contributions. Tony Sarg develops an
interest in marionettes, and Jacks, the English
philosOpher, takes up architecture; McKenzie
sculptures; the American Academy of Medicine
sponsors an art exhibit for its members, and John
Finley takes long walks. So it goes! One man
works in a garden, another maps out the migra—
tory habits of birds. One carves canes, another
collects rocks; one plays the violin, and another
collects stamps. One man builds a rock garden,
and a second raises Jersey cows. One paints, and'
another hunts for dinosaur eggs in the Gobi Desert.
One builds a cabin up the river, while another
gives his time to a
boys’ club. A
superintendent
of schools spins
pewter and one of
his teachers makes
beautiful bows and
arrows. One group

of boys constructs
an electric eye
while a second
group builds
model airplanes.
And so the list
may be extended
to include every
phase of life.”—

fay B. Nash.

Recreation for Workers in Small plants

small plants is fully as im-

portant as it is for em—
ployees in larger plants. Small
plants are working at the same intensive pace
necessary to meet war production needs. The strain
on the individual worker is just as great and he
needs the release and the fun which comes to him
through recreation activities. The importance of
this is brought out by the fact that fully 50 percent
of all industrial workers are employed in plants of
fewer than 500 employees. If the recreational
needs of this half of the war production force
should be ignored, the total contribution which rec-
reation can make nationally to employee morale,
absenteeism, and working efficiency would be
seriously limited.

The value of recreation for employees in indus-
try is well brought out in the following summary
of reasons given by industrial recreation directors
and personnel managers who have watched at close
range the effect of recreation programs on workers:

Recreation gives -the worker the opportunity to partici-
pate with others in activities which offer relaxation
from long hours and the strain of work.

Recreation helps to build up self-reliance in employees
and creates esprit de corps among them.

Recreation provides workers with a natural outlet for
the expression of their desires and interests.

Recreation contributes to the physical health and
mental stability of employees.

Recreation helps to create better relations between em-
ployees and management.

Recreation, through the deveIOpment of leadership
ability, helps discover foremen and supervisory
material.

Recreation programs that are well administered usually
attract efficient and interested workers to the plant.

Recreation helps to build worker morale, to increase
production efficiency, and to reduce absenteeism.

RECREATION for employees in

The problem of organizing recreation programs
for small plants is entirely different and more com-

plex and difficult than it is for large plants. Em-.

ployees in the smaller plants in general want to do
about the same things in their spare time that
employees in larger plants do, but frequently there
are not enough employees in small plants inter—
ested in some activities to justify organizing those
activities on an individual plant basis. Then, too,
the cost of organizing a smallplant along the lines

14.4

By C. E. BREWER

Field Representative
National Recreation Association

which have been successfully de-
veloped for large plants would
undoubtedly be too heavy and
require a per capita employee
cost greater than necessary and beyond the finan—
cial resources available for a small plant program.

It is important in the case of the small plant
that a careful study be made of local neighborhood
and community opportunities for recreation already
available to workers. It must be remembered that
workers are not only employees of the plant, but
that many are members of a church, of a fraternal
order, of a union, and above all that they are
mostly members of a family and will want to have
much of their recreation with their family, with
other members of their church, their club, their
fraternal order, their union. The small plant pro—
gram should be supplementary to community op-
portunities and not competitive with them.

There are some activities in which experience
shows employees like to participate with other em-
ployees in the small plant, such as bowling, pic-
nics, and plant competitive sports. It would be dif-
ficult, and probably impossible, in most small plants
to develop an intramural program in those com-
petitive activities in which more than a few indi-
viduals are required in each competitive unit, such
as would be the case in baseball and softball. In
other competitive sports, such as golf and bowling,
intramural competition could be developed more
easily.

Small plants could well develop at least one
choral group, glee club, orchestra, dramatic or-
ganization, and numerous informal and social ac-
tivities such as picnics, horseshoes, parties, dances,
stags, and noon-hour activities such as chess,
checkers, horseshoes, and dancing. Art, craft, and
hobby groups are also possible in a small plant
where there is effective volunteer leadership avail-
able to stimulate and guide such groups.

What Does the Community Offer?

The first step which management should take
when considering the recreational ' needs of its
workers is a study of just what the community has
to offer in the way of facilities and program. In
some communities there will be existing public and
private recreation services which can meet some
of the needs atleast, both in the way of facilities

RECREATION

RECREATION FOR WORKERS IN SMALL PLANTS 145

and leadership. This has been amply demonstrated
in a number of communities, both small and large.
Where local services do not exist or are currently
inadequate, representatives of small plants might
well consider whether their first move should not
be to assist in community efforts to create commu-
nity-wide organizations which would serve their
employees as well as others in the community, or
to expand existing services where they need to be
increased. These agencies could then supplement
their community programs with service to indus-
trial plants, and through the total services avail-
able provide a well-rounded program for all. This
pooling of support of local programs, including
public programs, would probably cost management
less in the long run because of increased taxes or
increased contributions to private agencies than it
would for each small plant to attempt to provide
a complete service within itself.

Where this is not possible or desirable, manage-
ment should then consider the advisability of the
organization of a community—wide industrial as-
sociation in which all plants, or at least small
plants, could cooperate in providing recreation pro-
grams for their own workers. This community-
wide agency could provide leadership and stimula-
tion for intraplant activities as well as a broad
range of interplant programs.

Discovering Their Interests

\Vhere community interest is lacking, or where
other small plants are not interested in joining in
a cooperative program, there are a number of
things which a small plant can go ahead and do for
itself, as suggested above. The first step in plan-
ning for this is to determine just what the recrea-
tional interests of the employees are. This is
usually done through an interest-finding question-
naire. Experience has shown that a short form of
questionnaire is much more effective than one
which tries to cover too many activities or too
wide a range of interests. The following form may
be helpful in this connection:

EMPLOYEE RECREATION INTEREST

QUESTIONNAIRE
OF THE
. . . . . . . 
Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Badge or clock number . . . . . . . . . .Department.  . . . . . . ; .
JUNE 1945

1. Check min the following activities you would take

part in:
Archery Baseball
Tennis Basketball
Bowling Softball
Volley ball Golf
Touch football Swimming
Horseshoes Table tennis
Band Orchestra
Singing club Drama club
Social dancing Square dancing
Rifie or Gun club Horseback riding
Gardening Hiking

Classes for making clothes or hats

Handcraft—making things useful for the home

Outings—such as picnics, melon feasts, fish fries,
family parties

2. List any other activities in which you would be inter-
ested . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

o I I I I 0 c I I I 0 o I I I 0 o o I o o o I o I o I o o o o I o 0 0 O o I o I o I o O O 0 o I I IO

3. List activities in which you would be willing to give
volunteer leadership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

4. What position can you play on any athletic team... .

O o I I o 0 o o 0 o o 0 I I 0 0 0 I I I 0 0 O 0 O 0 0 0 O O 0 0 0 o I 0 I O o o o 0 I o I I I I I I.

5. Can you sing . . . . . .play any musical instrument . . . . ..

6. Have you any specialty, or novelty act which you can
perform on the stage, or over the radio . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

O O I G I O I I O I I I I I I 0 O I I O O O O O I O O O I O I I I 0 U O I I I 0 O U O O O O O O O 0.

O O I O I O O I O I O O I I I O O I I I I I I I I I I I I I O I O I I O I I I O I I O O O O O I I O.

8. What recreation facilities, such as gym, swimming
pools, playground tennis courts, recreation room, etc.,
do you think should the built at the plant, or in the
community that you do not have at the present time. .

u o I u c I I I I I I o I I I I o 0 I I I 0 o I I O 0 I I o a 0 0 0 0 O o I I I 0 O 0 I O 0 0 0 O I 0

Before the questionnaire is distributed, its pur-
pose should be explained to departmental fore-
men or supervisors in order to secure their co-
operation. The most effective returns will be
secured by having it distributed by the foremen,
timekeepers, or in some similar manner. Experi-
ence has shown that it is desirable to have em-
ployees fill out the questionnaires at the plant
rather than to take them home. When they are
taken home, relatively few will be returned. They
should preferably be filled out at lunch or during
rest periods or at some other time when this will
not interfere with production. New workers can
fill them out at the time they are employed or dur-
ing an induction training period.

Planning the Program

It is not necessary or desirable to start a new
program with a large number of activities. Greater
success will be secured by starting with a few
activities and then enlarging the program as
rapidly as new ones can be absorbed.

146 RECREATION FOR WORKERS IN SMALL PLANTS

In program planning the recreational needs of
women workers should not be overlooked. Women
can and will participate in many activities which
are popular with men, although the difference be—
tween men and women in physical ability and rec-
reation tastes make it necessary to develop special
activities just for the women. Competitive physical
activities take second place with most women. If
a younger woman worker has to choose between
playing a team game or keeping a date with a boy
friend, usually she is not going to choose the team
game. Women like to play tennis, badminton,
golf, swim, skate, join a rifle team, ride horseback,
sing in a choral group, participate in dramatics, or
play in a musical organization.

Off-shift workers should be considered, too, and
every effort should be made to have community
facilities available at odd hours for them where this
can be done under pr0per supervision and control.
Frequently this will require consultation with local
governing authorities and the passage, amend-
ment, or repeal of local ordinances.

It is important that plants do not themselves
construct physical facilities for recreation in
advance of the development of the activities them-
selves. It is only as the active interest of em-
ployees is expressed in participation, and when
community facilities are not available, that con-
struction of special facilities at plants is justified.

Form of Organization

The simplest and most effective form for the
organization of plant recreation is usually to have
a general council on which are represented the
chairmen of individual committees appointed to be
responsible for the organization and conduct of
the different activities in which the employees have
expressed an interest, and representatives of man-

  
  

PLANT

  
 

 

RECREATION

Composed of representatives from the offices 0 '
superintendent, personnel, and auditor, and tin chairmen of

son_or_ed..in the. plant

Chairmen of Activities on Recreation Council

agement and labor. This council can then elect its
officers. The treasurer is bonded and usually is a
representative from the plant auditor’s office.

This over-all board would be responsible for
stimulating activities, for establishing general
policies and procedures, for appointing necessary
protest committees for competitive athletics, and
for acting as a clearing house for the scheduling of
all events so as to eliminate conflict in dates. On
the financial side, the board would have responsi-
bility for preparing a tentative budget covering all
recreation activities for the fiscal year, and it
would present to management requests for any
appropriations desired for the program. The board
would also approve budget allotments for different
activities as presented by the committees respon—
sible for them, general over-all expenditures, par-
ticularly for interdepartmental or interplant com‘
petitive activities, company-wide picnics, dances
and parties, and all contracts or agreements which
would in any way commit the board financially.

Another form of organization which has been
used in some plants is the club plan. Those inter-
ested in each activity form a club for that activity,
with its own officers. The president of each of
these clubs is then a member of a plant-wide recre-
ation council. This is not essentially different from
the plan previously outlined.

Large plants usually organize on a departmental
basis rather than on an activities basis, but this
would probably be impractical in most small plants.
It is important that organization be kept as simple
as possible.

Meeting the Bills!

Many small plants have hesitated'to develop °
recreation programs for fear that the cost would be
too great. It is true that the cost for employees

    

COUNCIL ,

    

     
     

RECREATION

. RECREATION FOR WORKERS IN SMALL PLANTS 147

is apt to run higher in small plants than in larger
plants, particularly where small plants try to copy
the complete organization methods of larger plants.
However, in a small plant it is not always nec—
essary to employ a full time recreation director
nor is it necessary usually to construct or operate
major recreation areas or buildings. Community
facilities can be used, many of them, such as rec-
reation centers and school centers, being available
at no cost or at a very small fee. Outdoor areas,
where available, can usually be secured without
cost. A large part of the cost of small plant pro—
grams has been for athletic equipment, such as

uniforms, balls, bats, entry fees, and cost of of-'

ficials. \Vhere emphasis is not placed on interplant
competition these costs can be kept comparatively
low, thus keeping the total budget at a minimum.
Aside from any amount paid for executive leader-
ship, $3.00 per employee should provide an ade-
quate budget and in many instances the program
could be financed for less than this amount.

The program is usually hnanced by a contribu-
tion from management, admission fees, receipts
from vending machines, and a small annual em-
ployee membership fee. Many activities, such as
dances and parties, usually pay for themselves, and
golfers meet a large part of their own expense
through green fees, bowlers through alley fees.

There is considerable material available on rec—
reation for industrial workers which is appropriate
for small plants or which can readily be adapted to
meet the problems of the small plant. Attached is
a brief bibliography which will be helpful to those
responsible for the development of recreation in
an industrial plant.

A Brief Bibliography
General

*Recreation for Hz’orkers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ .50
(Suggests in very simple terms ways in which
recreation can help workers in industrial plants
to get the most out of their leisure time, and
find personal satisfaction)

Industrial Recreation—I ts Development and

Present S tatns, by Leonard J. Diehl and Floyd R.

Eastwood. South-worth’s Purdue Book Store, 308

State Street, West Lafayette, Indiana . . . . . . . . ..

(Report of a study of 245 companies. Includes
historical review, extent of recreation, adminis-
tration, programs, facilities and equipment, with
stated values)

Planning Industrial Recreation, by G. Herbert

Duggins and Floyd R. Eastwood. Southworth’s
Purdue Book Store . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

(Report of a study of recreation in industrial

is:
tn

TUNE 1945- .

relations; principles, policies, practices, and
problems in organization and administration)
Selected Source Material in Industrial and Gen-
eral Recreation, by George W. Ilaniford, E.
Patricia Hagman, and Floyd R. Eastwood. South-
worth’s Purdue Book Store . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
(A comprehensive list of references including
articles, inexpensive materials, hooks and maga—
zines)
S pare—Time—m lVar Asset for War Workers Free
Division of Recreation, Office of Community War
Services, Social Security Building, \Vashington,
D. C.
(Experiences are given to illustrate this compre—
hensive booklet)

*Recreation Services for Industrial Workers.... .25
(Summary of addresses included in the Proceed-
ings of the war Recreation Congress in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, October 1942, together with mes—
sages from leaders in industry and labor)

Personality and Cltarrn. Educational Research
Bureau, 1217 Thirteenth Street, NAM, Wash-

ington, D. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .10
Activities
*Party Booklets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .each .50

Parties—Plans and Programs

Parties for Special Days of the Year
Illnsical M ixers and S imple S qnare Dances
Let’s Plan a Party

- Stunts and Entertainments

Fun for Threesomes

*Parties A to Z . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75
(A party for every letter in the alphabet 1)

*Dances and Their Management (MP 313) . . . . .. .15

*Recreation for .llI en . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25

(Leisure-time activities of all kinds are sug-
gested, and directions for playing games of all

types are given)

*Games for Boys and Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50
*Games for Quiet Hours and Small Spaces . . . . . . .50
I""The Picnic Book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25

(A comprehensive book on picnic organization
and activities, with suggestions for other out—
door occasions)

Tlie American Sports Library. A. S. Barnes and

Company, New York City
(Official rules for sports and athletic games.
Prices of the booklets, $.35, $.50, $.75, and $1.00)

S parts and Games, Technical Manual. TM 21-220.

Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC. .30
(Layout and basic rules and fundamentals of
seventeen sports and games)

I""Singing America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .25
(A collection of 120 songs and choruses from all
the Americas. Accompaniment book, $1.50)

*Mnsic and Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15
(A manual on planning and developing musical
activities in' communities near training camps .
or war production centers)

 

* Published by the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth
Avenue, Lew York 10,, N. Y.

Parks and Recreation in Minneapolis

will retire as superintendent of parks in

Minneapolis after thirty-nine years of ser-
vice with the Board of Park Coinmissi011ers———ten
years as superintendent. Mr. Bossen began his
service in 1906, when Theodore \Virth became
superintendent, and he has been a part of the
Board for considerably more than half of the sixty-
one years of its ex-
istence. In a tribute to
Mr. Bossen and his
work, Francis A. Gross,
President of the Board
of Park Commissioners
says: “One cannot en-
counter him without be—
ing impressed by his
sincere honesty ; his sim—
ple, genuine frankness;
and his broad, sympa-
thetic, yet keen under—
standing of human
values. These character—
istics, together with his
thorough knowledge of
park matters and gen-
eral public service, have
enabled him to make
significant pr0gress dur-
ing a most trying period
of Board history, at the
same time adding much
to the prestige of the
Park Department.”

ON THE 28TH of next August, C. A. Bossen

Minneapolis has had
a very unusual park development over a
long period of years, and the problem of
adequate park and recreation facilities and financ-
ing has always been of major concern to the Board
of Park Commissioners.

In 1915 the Minnesota legislature first recog-
nized the need for public recreation by validating
a tax of 1A3 mill for playground purposes for cities
of the first class. Four years later, this rate was
ipcreased to % mill. In 1920, the new city charter
under a home rule also contained provision for %
mill levy for playground purposes. In 1923 this

rate was increased to 3/5 mill, and in 1927 the.

148

 

C. A. Bossen

legislature set the rate ‘at % mill, the peak levy
permitted up to the present time.

During the early part of 1945 the Board of Park
Connnissioners requested the Hennepin County
delegation of the state legislature to introduce and
promote the passage of a bill to increase the play-
ground levy from the present 1/2 mill to 2% mills.
This action was taken by the Board at the request
of the Minneapolis
Council of Parents and
Teachers Association
and many interested in-
dividuals. The bill has
been endorsed by many
local P. T. A. groups,
youth councils and other
local groups, and the
City Council has passed
a resolution approving
It.

The passage of the
bill would make possi-
ble a total annual bud-
get for all park pur-
poses of approximately
$1,100,000 which is
slightly greater than two
dollars per capita. This
would conform to the
recommendations made
by L. H. \Veir 0f the
National Recreation As-
sociation after a survey
of the needs of the city.
The recommendations in
brief are as follows:

I. A return to the full program of winter

sports facilities.

2. A return to the full schedule of summer play-
grounds.

3. The establishment of after-school playgrounds
at a number of locations. (This is a new por-
tion of the proposed program.)

4. The increase in the number of year-round
community centers to operate, and the expan-
sion of community center program to include

7 {Continued on page 154)
RECREATION

How Does Your Library Grow?

welfare of children, with the formation of the

habits of thought and of recreation which will
help mold the life of the adults of the future, have
you looked lately to your library?

Two hundred years ago John Newbery pub—
lished the Little Pretty Pocket B oak, the first book
made especially for children. It was a potpourri
of ABC’s, rules for behaviour, rhymes and prov-
erbs, letters from Jack the Giant Killer. 50 small
a beginning fathered the industry that is children’s
books today. Thousands of books for young people
of all ages roll from the presses each year. Some
are “good.” Some are, inevitably, less good.

Some boys and girls will read any book that
comes their way—good, bad, or indifferent. Others
——an appallineg large number—have to be lured or
cajoled into reading anything more “literary” than
the comics. Both the readers and non-readers
need intelligent guidance. The energy of the read-
crs must be turned into channels where it will do
the most good. More often than not the youngster
who will not read except under pressure has been
prejudiced against all books because he has been
forced at school or at home to read material that
is dull or dated or academic.

Books can have far-reaching effects. They can
widen horizons, stimulate the imagination, empha-
size the likenesses of people and experiences in our
shrinking world. The right kind of children’s books
can go far toward break-
ing down“prejudices and
stressing right attitudes.

Few laymen 'have the
time to look with sufficient
care over the whole field
of children’s books in
order to choose those that
will broaden and deepen a
child’s awareness of the
world about him, break
down undesirable attitudes
and replace them with posi-
tive approaches to living,
and at the same time hold
the youngster’s interest.
The ordinary healthy child
reads because he likes the
story, because he finds new

You, WHO ARE CONCERNED especially with the

JUNE 1945

 

and wider experiences which he can transfer bodily
from the printed page to the fantasy—world of his
mind, often so much more alive to him than the
world of actuality. There are two “musts” for a
child’s book, if the child is to be able to relive it in
his own mind. The book must have a good story
and the characters must be real people, not pale
copybook figures seen on a shadow stage. Beyond
this, youngsters are not apt to read books that
obviously point a moral and they are quick to
sense insincere writing.

Here for example are four books,* calculated to
appeal to the average boy or girl and to stress
without preaching about them strong and desir-
able points of view. They are books that are writ-
ten with an eye to timeliness and reality. They go
far toward underlining the ideas and ideals of
American democracy and the hope of a united
world, although in no case is either of those values
definitely mentioned in so many words.

Three of them, Orange on Top, The Sea Cats,
and Barney’s Barges are for children in the eight
to twelve age group. The fourth, Wilderness C tear-
ing, will appeal to older children.

Orange on Top (the title refers to the band of
orange that t0ps the flag of the Netherlands) and
Barney’s Barges are stories of wars separated by
more than a century and a quarter, and of boys
who shared in courage with older men. Each book
has a strong, exciting plot, characters of “flesh and
blood.” Orange on Top
leans, perhaps, slightly to—
ward the sentimental in
spots, but this is a minor
fault in an otherwise ex-
cellent story of a lad 'ivho
learns that even children
must be disciplined if they
would fight with men in
the underground move-
ment against the Nazi. The

scene of Barney’s Barges
(Continued on page 157)

“Barney’s Barges, by Don Aspden,
Holiday House, New York, $2.00
Orange on Top, by Henrietta van
der Haas, Harcourt Brace, New
York, $2.00.

The Sea Cats, by Alice Curtis
Deggmnd, Macmillan, New York.
$2. .

H’ildernes: Clearing. by Walter D.
Edmonds, Dodd, Mead and Co..
New York, $2.50.

 

149

lt's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column of Nature-Grams

” LEUTIAN Islands, Their People and Nat—

ural History” (with keys for the identifica-
tion of birds and plants.) Smithsonian Institute,
W'ashington. 131 pp. 21 plates. War Background
Studies, Number 21.

Animal Wild ‘Life. “The Natural History and
Behavior of the Western Chipmunk and the
Mantled Ground Squirrel,” by Kenneth Gordon.
Oregon State College. 104

pp. Illus. $.75.

Anthropology. “T he World
and Man as Science Sees
Them,” edited by Forest R.
Moulton. Doubleday, Doran

and Co., New York. 553 pp.
$1.98.

“Honeybee,” by F. C. Pel-
lett. F. S. Brooks, Mt. Ver-
non, Iowa. $.10. An excellent
pamphlet.

Los Angeles Camps. Grif-
fith Park is the largest park
in the United States wholly
within a city. The City Rec—
reation Commission of Los Angeles is planning
three children’s camps, one for teen-agers. i

“Map Reading and Aerial Photography Read-
ing.” War Department, F. M. 21—25, August
19.1.4. Superintendent of Documents, \Vashington.
An elementary manual useful in camps.

Missouri, Rockwoods Reservation is a nature
recreationist’s dream. There will be found several
miles of nature trails; a wildlife exhibit interpret-
ing the life of the region; a specialist on duty
through the year to lead hikes, give talks, answer
questions; campfire circle for meetings; spring
exploration trips announced by the Conservation

Commission. Harold I. O’Byrne, Conservator,

Glencoe, Missouri, is in charge.

“Nature Adventnring,” adapted from How to
Survive on Land and Sea. Nature Trail, Demon—
stration Area, Patrol Leader Training, Training
Hikes, and Survival Hike, are the five steps de—
veloped by an experimental camp forScouts con-

ducted by the Grant Study of Harvard‘UniverSity '

150

Have you breathed the faith of fir trees
, by the lure of campfire light?

Watched the wistful shadows creeping
towards the restful lap of Night?

Have you sent your thoughts a-homing
to the source of space and time?

Felt the pulse of soul communion full and
firm with the divine?

Sensed the wonders of creation? Grip-
ped the purpose of the whole?

Then you know the mystic sweetness that
comes stealing o'er the soul

As on balsam boughs spread thickly on
the mossy mountain sod

One with questioning eyes looks upward

to the very heart of God.
—M. D. Geddes in Canadian Nature

and the Boy Scouts of America. The pamphlet is
published by Boy Scouts of America.

Nature Equations. Take your choice: Drought
+ floods, dust storms, ravages of war, depression
= man—made ills ; or scientific knowledge + under-
standing, responsibility, cultural achievement =
latent human power. Nature recreation includes

the factors in the second equation, the greatest of
which is cultural achievement.

Nature Leaders’ School.
There will be a beginner's
and an advanced leaders’
school at different places but
at the same time, July 2—14.
For information, write Fed-
eration of Ontario Natural-
ists, 100 Queen’s Park, To-
ronto 5, Ontario, Canada.

N atnre Recreation was the
only kind the Indian had. No
one foresaw that in a few
generations people would
have to be trained to enjoy
the out—of—doors. This means
leaders in nature recreation. Technical scientists
like Archimedes, Galileo, and Newton worked in
isolation. A leader in nature recreation has to
work with people. A modern astronomical observer
has to know how to handle telescopes, computing
machines, photographic materials. Great founda-
tions have been created by industry to advance
this kind of scientific knowledge. The handling of
people takes more tact than precision. The ma-
terials at hand are more numerous. \Vho is going
to rise up and support nature recreation?

Nature Training S eliool for children from nine
to sixteen years old who have an interest in the
out-of—doors. Three two-week sessions at a farm
day-camp are being planned and directed by
‘Worcester Museum of Natural History, \Norces-
ter, Mass.

Trees. “Some Useful Trees of the United States.”
U. S. Forest Service. Illus. Free from The Forest

, Service, \Nashington, D. C. A special compilation
ifor‘méinbers of“ Science Clubs of America.

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

——-—.—..

Huckleberry
Finn Day

THE FISHING was good
-—-very good. With twigs
and _willows more than
200 youngsters, barefoot-
ed, their trousers rolled up, invaded Pioneer and
Sorenson Parks in true Huck style. Before night-
fall approximately 250 trout had been caught.

The occasion was Huckleberry Finn Day, spon-
sored by the Salt Lake City Recreation Depart-
ment. Both boys and girls took part in the event
and fished in the pools where trout had been
“planted” for the occasion. There was no limit set
on fishing. \\’hen the fish refused to nibble at the
hook the signal was given to cast aside the tackle
and try the Indian method—catch them in your
hands—if you can!

TENNESSEE has pioneer-
ed in appointing a state
administrator who will
give the major portion of
his attention to camping. He is Henry G. Hart,
recently named administrative assistant in the Ten-
nessee Division of State Parks, Department of Con-
servation. His principal responsibility will be the
administration of the camp programs now in oper—
atinn in the state parks.

Camping in
Tennessee

TIIE FANTASTIC construc-

tion feats of our Seabees

continually awe everyone.

But the job which most
impressed a naval ofiicer, who has just returned
from a relatively uneventful cruise off the coast of
Japan, came on some unrevealed Pacific island.
Some 10,000 Seabees poured off a ship just in tiine
to discover that a championship baseball game was
scheduled for that day.

Two hours before the start all grandstand seats
were occupied by the local garrison while the visit-
ing Seabees were left out in the cold. Did that
daunt them? The Seabees don’t daunt that easily.
They whipped around with the bulldozers and
other equipment until at game time not only were
all 10,000 of them located in makeshift stands but
they had the best seats in the park—From The
New York Times, March 9, 1945.

The Undaunted
Seabees

JUNE 1945

THE Percy County \Vash-
ingtOn Welfare Depart-
ment, Tacoma, Washing-
ton, in the February issue of its bulletin known
as the Foster Parent, devoted considerable space
to a discussion on recreation in homes under foster
parent guidance. The material. a publication on
which Thomas W. Lantz, Superintendent of Pub-
lic Recreation, and Mrs. Agnes Smith of the staff
of the commission cooperated, deals with simple
things that children may enjoy in the home. This
is the first of a series of articles on play which will
be sent__ to 450 foster parents.

RADIO Station KGW in
Portland, Oregon, has
sought for twenty-three
years to find new and bet—
ter ways to contribute to the community it serves.
One of its most recent contributions has been in
cooperation with the Recreation Division of the
Parks Bureau. Under the banner of this Division
the North Portland teen-age group has its own
“night club.” Each Saturday night KGW broad-
casts a show direct from the Paragon. The broad-
cast manages to reproduce the club atmosphere.
Sounds of the dance floor, the bar (soft drinks
only, of course!), the band come over the air
weekly. In less than eight months the club mem-
bership was doubled.

Family Fun

Radio Station
KGW

Ix DEARBORN, Michigan,
parents shown to be de-
linquent toward their
children are sent to clinics
where their problems are related to the wider
picture of community living. One of the “courses”
in this Dearborn school for parents was conducted
by the superintendent of recreation. Less than 15
per cent of Dearborn’s residents knew just what
recreation facilities the community had to offer;
The superintendent of recreation for Dearborn
told his audience what they could expect recrea-
tionally from their community and where to go
for it. He talked to them about games and showed
them examples of handcraft made under the Rec—
reation Department’s supervision. The parents
went away from that session wiser people, hap—
pier about prospects _for themselves and their
children. . -

School for
Parents

152 WORLD AT PLAY

They'll Wani-

Diamond Shoes!

FELLOWS who learned to enjoy the game

of horseshoes in army camps and navy
bases, with Diamond Pitching Shoes, will
call for Diamond Shoes when they get home.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Slandard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

A Medal for Junior Gardeners—~—To encour—
age boys and girls to plant Victory Gardens, the
National Victory Garden Institute, Inc., 598
Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y., will award
the General MacArthur medal to outstanding
young gardeners throughout the country. Any
boy or girl may qualify for the medal by meeting
the requirements of his or her particular organi-
zation on inspection by local leaders. Under the
broad standards set up by the Institute, partici-
pating youth organizations have established stand—
ards consistent with the abilities of their particular
age groups. A contestant must submit a record
book after it has been signed by official local chair-
man or leader who will have visited the entrant’s
garden plot at least twice during the season.

The number of medals awarded will be limited
to approximately 30,000 for the entire country.
Medal winners are eligible to receive other local
awards such as state awards of silver medals and
the Green Thumb awards of war bonds. There
will be ribbons and certificates for gardeners who
do not win a MacArthur medal. I

More Play Areas for Yonkers, New York—-
In the May issue of RECREATION there appeared
an article entitled “A Realistic Postwar Plan,”
which told of the play areas the city of Yonkers,
New York, is acquiring. Since the publication of
this article word has come that the Committee on
Regional Parks and Playgrounds, which is serving
the city’s needs, has recommended to the Common
Council the acquisition of eleven more areas scat-
tered throughout the city, making a total of more
than thirty new areas which, it is hoped, will be
developed for recreational use.

' “Mr. and Mrs. America”———The Motion Pic-
ture and Special Events Section, War Finance
Division, U. S Treasury Department, announces a
release for free showing of “Mr. and Mrs. Ameri-
ca,” a film which pictures War Bonds in action as
a help to win the war and secure the peace. The
film uses a series of unusual action shots from the
battle fronts to illustrate the power of bonds as a
weapon of war. In the latter half of the film at-
tention is directed to the War Bond’s vital role in
the postwar world.

Further information may be secured from the
Motion Picture and Special Events Section, U. S.
Treasury Department, Washington, D. C.

A New Park for Los Angelestrom 1919 to
1927 William S. Hart, two—gun hero of silent films
when the “Western” was getting top billing at the
movie theaters all over the country, lived with his
sister in Los Angeles. Their lot spread for 209
feet along Sunset Boulevard. That property now
belongs to the people of Los Angeles, given them
by “Bill” Hart in recognition of what the Ameri-
can people had given him in his acting days. The
property will be converted into a park for public
use when peace has come. With the deed went a
check for $50,000 for a fountain to be built on
the site.

Neighborhood Committees Help Out—~Neigh-
borhood committees were active in Morgantown,
West Virginia, last summer in helping to conduct
the program sponsored by the Monongalia County
Recreation Council. At least four parents appeared
on each of the playgrounds to assist the recreation
leaders. Fathers and older brothers of the chil-
dren constructed table tennis tables, basketball
backstops, wading pools and other facilities. Street
dances organized by the adults were held to raise
moneyfor'th'e :purchase of material.

RECREATION

    

“IF THEY COULD
SPEAK TODAY" - o o

0 American boys are not, as a whole, fond of heroics. If
they do something that calls for unusual fearlessness and

MEMBER—The Athletic Institute, a non- cold courage, they expect no special reward. It’s just part
PW!“ "Emm'mn ded‘“‘°d ‘° "‘° “1‘ of the job. And these grand heroes would be the last to want a
voneement of national physical fitness. . I! “
memorial or a statue. If they could speak theyd applaud the War
* * O I  r I- . C
Lo... .11 boos, the “W” Memorms Th“ Memorials That Live plan. Theyd like to see a community tennis
Live” “minis” ‘0 "mmemwue “W club—a stadium or play field, a field house or simple hiker’s rest hut .

war heroes.

dedicated in their memory because it’s something useful—something that
Wilson Sporting Goods Co.

Chic.go.Ncw Yuk and brings fun and healthful exercise to others—something that will Iive.

other leading cities . . . . .
If you are in a community where such an expression is in order,

a) consider this “War Memorials That Live" idea. The movement is
m: spreading rapidly and is being widely used and endorsed.
V, For further details write to George G. Trautman, Chairman, 30
7'1"" “Mm” G°°d' Mfg'c°"'"°' East Broad Street, Columbus 15, Ohio.

Chicago Plant

IT'S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT
IUNE1945: 153

154 SO I’VENT THE SUMMER

Adventures in Reereatien

OU may already have a copy of this book

which presents the adventurous iield of
recreation. Designed for the general use of all
interested in recreation and its functions, it
has special values for young people and may
be used as a text in junior and senior high
school courses, in physical education, civics
and allied subjects.

If you do not have in your library this I40
page cloth bound book which has been selling
for 72 cents a copy, this is your opportunity
to secure it. As long as the supply lasts,
copies may be purchased at 50 cents each.

National Recreation Association

315 Fourth Avenue
New York 10, New York

Parks and Recreation in Minneapolis
(Continued from page 148)

more cultural activities such as music, dra-
matics, arts, etc.

5. The addition to the personnel of specialists in
music, dramatics, arts and crafts. and nature
, study.

6. The restoration of facilities and the improve—
ment of life guard service at a number of
beaches and the addition of swimming facili-
ties in areas not now served.

. The redesigning of existing areas for greater
1 recreation use and the acquisition of additional
land for playground purposes.

\I

8. The restoration of the summer playground
pageant and the Lake of the Isles “Tater Fes-
tival. '

9. Expansion of the summer park hand and com-
munity sing program.

10. Provision of the resources to purchase ade—

quate recreation supplies and equipment for an
expanded program.

11. The restoration of the Chrysanthemum show
and other exhibitions.

12. The restoration of a high standard 01 mam-
tenance in parks and playgrounds.

13. Enlargement of police force.

14. Increased lighting in parks and playgrounds.

Nora: \Vord has been received that Governor Edward
J. Thye recently signed the bill providing for an increase
of one and a half mills in the allowable levy for recrea-
tion purposes in Minneapolis. This will provide an annual
increase of about 3230.000 in park recreation funds.

So Went the Summer
(Continued from page 120)

removed it from the oven, the banquet was fit for
the king.

Then there are the periods when the campers
are with us. Most of the girls have been to camps
and are betwixt the age of camper and counselor.
They have a trusting belief that canoe trips are
fun. \Ve think our canoe trips are pretty good;
we have even written signilicant articles in journals
such as this, telling the rest of you how to run
them. \Ve plan the routes carefully (democratically,
of course, with the girls), we plan the menus
(democratically and in terms of our supplies), but
even we cannot do anything about the rain. We
know how to get the tents up in time, to keep the
food packs tightly under the canvas and to gather
large piles of wood and put it under shelter before
the rain. But we can’t stop the rain.

One afternoon we made camp in a cloud burst
and we cooked an excellent supper of succotash.
bacon, butterscotch pudding and coffee, all flavored
slightly with rain water. \Ve stood in slickers and
rain caps congratulating ourselves and each other
on the wonderful supper. “If the American Camp-
ing Association could see us now I bet it would be
impressed.” “Not many trippers could get such a
good meal in the pouring rain.” “Gosh, Jane, the
pudding was super.” And then suddenly there was
nothing to do but contemplate getting into a damp
tent for a very rainy night. This was when one
wondered why one ever goes on canoe trips. This
was when one said, “Gee, I like to hear rain—on
the roof.” This was when one gradually began to
feel cold and comfortless and very, very far away
from any human habitation. And this was when
Jane suddenly pulled out from her slicker pocket
:1 pair of—of all things—a pair of white kid gloves.
We shouted with amazement. Twenty-five miles '
ironi‘the nearest village, on a lonely, rain-drenched,

RECREATION

    
   
   
  
 

V0" IOUGH

SYNTHETIC-IUIBER
COVER

VOIT'S exclusive patented Form-Bilt Enduro Construc-
tion (shown at right) adds many extra hours of play
to every Voit Basketball, Football, Soccer Boll, Volley
Ball, and Water Polo Ball.

Now with wortime scarcity, you'll more than ever op-

preciote this added quality in all your Voit Athletic
Equipment.

3,}, WA,- BONDS ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
.REGu-LARLY ""9 by W. J. Vet! Rubber Corp.
' . 160015. 25th 51., losAngnles n, Com.
‘1"  (“new Brunch—180 No w'lhor Dc...-z¢,...,
lUNE 1945

H

MULTIPLE [AYERS
S YMHETIC-l U3!!! IMP! EG NAHD
FAIIIC

FORM-Ill? CENTER

THE BEST DEALERS
ARE VOIT DEALERS

 RUBBER-COVERED
H; THIETIC BALLS

'Jl

156 STRATEGY FOR GROWTH

desolate campsite, a pair of white gloves. So Jane
put them on and immediately became Mme. Citro-
nella reading our fortunes from the coffee cups. I
was going on a trip and Flora was going to get a
letter and Gery should be careful of a dark, tall
man, and we giggled and chattered and made
stupid puns and felt the warmth of the fire instead
of the drizzle of the rain. And then to bed. What
an opportunity I had missed for studying the ad-
justment of the adolescent to a problem situation!
Perhaps a lot of the problems so profoundly
analyzed in treatises on psychology would also
vanish if someone would only produce the white
kid gloves at the appropriate moment. There may
be a moral in all this. I don't know. I only know
we left the white kid gloves pulled over the tops
of the dingle sticks by our dwindling fire. There
they pointed defiantly to the heavens and we slept,
forgetting all about the rain.

So amid the rush of lectures, the routines of the
nursery, the crowded street cars and the incessant
telephone hell, we look back to the summer. We
have forgotten the days that went as we had plan-
ned ; we have forgotten how carefully we organized
our menus; we have forgotten the theses we were
going to construct on the development of the ado—
lescent. We remember the pine trees we planted
(are they, I wonder, still growing ?), the beauti—
ful shelves I spent that hot July afternoon creating,
the blueberry ' jam we supervised from bush to
bottle. We remember the undrawn chicken and the
kid gloves in the rain. Good things indeed to re-
member, for it’s only on such detours that one
catches glimpses of the unexpected and it’s when
our best laid schemes gang a-gley that we really
find enjoyment. And all too soon, in occupations
such as these, so went our summer.

Strategy for Growth
(Continued from page 116)

movements and sounds, script writing and theater
construction can proceed hand in hand. A scene
can be envisioned, expressed in movement, ex—
pressed in words sung or spoken or recited. Some
campers will plan scenes, others will write dia—
logue or music. Some will work at scenery or cos-

tumes or directing. Each small group will show its'

work periodically to the whole camp and learn to
accept criticism and suggestion constructively as
they proceed. The script grows and with it the
knowledge of what is good theater, how scenes are
related to one another, and What makes many

separate scenes into a single play. These things
come about because the group as a whole discovers
them through critical observation, through dissatis—
faction with what fails'to realize their idea. The re-
sults are often unbelievable. The imaginative free—
(10th with words which belongs to all,children,
once it is liberated in group discussion and caught
again in the net of theater-creating, produces a
quality of language seldom attained by the “con-
scious” playwright.

As the script takes shape the other elements of
theater—sound, color, form, light—must add their
contributions to the finished product. These “tech-
nical" arts can go far beyond the usual craftsman-
ship of backstage crews in a well-articulated plan.
They can, in their own right, be made to serve the
cause of'the “whole child.”

Through a careful consideration of color as
applied to paper or canvas the eye can be trained
to see what it was insensitive to before. When the
lessons of dark and light, complementary and sup-
plementary, vivid and dull, have been learned in a
variety of ways, their application to space and its
relationships can be shown in preparing a setting
for the theater piece in process of becoming.

Design, too, can be a training school for greater
perceptivity. If it is to be good theater, design
must be functional. To this end the selection of
the right material requires the young designer to
develop the tactile senses; to know the difference
in “feel” and texture of many materials, to esti-
mate their weight and mass under varying condi-
tions, and to learn how they will respond to dif-
ferent kinds of handling to judge the best useful-
ness of each, and so to become aware of responses
to the outer world that lies within reach of the sen—
sitive.

As knowledge of color helps make the seeing
eye so a particular knowledge of sound helps make
the hearing ear. Acting is essentially characteriza—
tion. Characterization implies the ability to observe
pe0ple and how they react in motion and feeling to
things and situations. Sound has a definite part
in this observation. Music and chant woven into
the pattern of the play bring to the participant an
awareness of sound that did not exist before. The
youngsters learn to hear and to recognize changes
of tone that have not, for them, existed heretofore.

Summary

These arejthethings that can happen in a camp

centeredon the arts. Such a camping experience

RECREATION

HOW DOES YOUR LIBRARY GROW? 157

can go far toward opening to a child new worlds,
both within his own mind and emotions and out-
side himself. It can release powers that may
enrich his whole future life, find normal vents for
needs and feelings that might seek less wholesome
outlets. Dr. Agnes Snyder, Instructor in Social
Studies at Bank Street School for Teachers and
Mills School, writes about a similar project con-
ducted by Elizabeth and Don Oscar Becque in a
New York school for young girls,

“Such experiences help the students gain perspective
on themselves, make them more sensitive to the prob-
lems of others, Open up possibilities for playing active
parts in the work of the world, and rouse their curi-
osity as to the why of social conditions.”

How Does Your Library Grow?

(Continued from page 149)

is laid in Maryland during the war of 1812. It,
too, deals with a boy too young to light but who,
nonetheless, found a way to serve the country to
which he wanted desperately to show his al-
legiance.

The Sea Cats is a different kind of a story. It
is a tale packed full of adventure in the Aleutian
fogs. It is a story of sealing, of the habits of fur
seals, and the lives of the people who protect them
against illegal hunters. It develops the likenesses
of people who live in different ways. Suspense and
information are neatly blended in this book which,
by the way, might well “double in brass” in a rec-
reation library as a resource for craft ideas.

From the revolutionary days when “upstate”
New York was a million miles from nowhere and
subject to depredation from Indians, from British,
and from gangs of Tories comes a fictional tale
built on the foundations of history. The plot of
Wilderness Clearing is simple enough. A boy and
a girl forced to run away by the approach of Indians
and Tories Find ways to carry to safety a paralyzed
man and a wounded child. But behind the simple
story is the feel of the wilderness and the uncer—
tainties of pioneers alone and too close to war.

A fifth book, Central American Rormdabont,*
is not fiction nor is. it adventure in the usual sense
of the word. It is, however, packed full of the
kind of adventure a boy or girl from ten to four-
teen'cati nnd in learning about the lives of people
in lands far from .his home. Agnes Rothery can
do for children what she has done so often for
adults—make a foreign country “come alive"—

because to her particular kind of seeingeye is

IUNE 1945

A June Rose Evening

III-IRE WERE ROSES everywhere at the Neighbor-
hood Guild in Peace Dale, Rhode Island, held

' last June. In a spacious club room on the lower

floor were exhibited arrangements of roses of
every color, style, and size. Adorning the mantle
over the fireplace were twin vases filled with roses
from delicate pink hues to deep crimson. Tables,
window sills, and niches were all bedecked with
artistic bouquets of every color. Some arrange—-
ments were combined with other flower sprays of
delphinium or Canterbury bells.

The exhibit, which was open to the public at
6:30 in the evening, continued during the band
concert which began at 8:15 and ended at 9:45.
Children and older folks from all the surrounding
villages enjoyed the display. The program cen—
tered around musical compositions with rose titles,
such as “Bouquet of Memories,” “Moonlight and

Roses,” “Mighty Like a Rose,” and “My \Vild
Irish Rose.”

The concert was held out of doors in front of
the entrance to the Guild. On the grounds and the

adjoining village green were hundreds of village
folk. Automobiles lined the driveway.

Red. white, and blue ribbons with gold stars
were awarded to first, second, and third winners
for artistry, balance, and blending of colors. After

the concert the roses were sent to the village
hospitals.

It was a real neighborly evening and was so
successful that others were held during the sum—
mer, the second being a “patriotic evening” when
the band rendered a program of patriotic selections.

 

 

coupled the ability to write with warmth and charm
and to relate the far-away thing to the near and
known. Like The Sea Cats, Central American
Roundabout is a mine of information for leaders
of craft classes, and chapters on “Stamps from
Central America” and “Flags and Coats—of—Arms”

are helpful to the people who ride those particular
hobby horses.

Books like these do their own luring of children
to read, so far are they from the dull or the didactic.
They will do no violence to the best in human
values. And they will do no violence to principles
of syntax or to English prose rhythms, for they
are highly readable without being pompous.

 

“Central American Roundabout, by Agnes Rothcry, Dodd, Mead
and-*Co... New York.- $2.50

158 TAMPA, FLORIDA, PLANS FOR SUMMER

Tampa, Florida, Plans for
Summer

IIE BOARD OF PUBLIC RECREATION in Tampa,
Tnnder the direction of Cordelia B. Hunt, is
making every effort to provide the thousands of
boys and girls who will have extra leisure in the
summer of 1945, the returning servicemen and
women, and the civilian adults, with the best rec-
reation program they have ever experienced. At
least two new playgrounds will be open, making a
total of twenty—eight areas, five of them for Negro
boys and girls. In addition to this, two municipal
swimming pools, as well as numerous baseball and
softball fields and tennis courts, will be available

for use.

The playgrounds will be open from 9:00 A. M.
until dark each evening, with at least four areas
illuminated for evening play. Softball leagues will
be organized for boys and girls, men and women.
The boys and men will have baseball leagues.
Young girls will be playing in dodge ball and kick
baseball tournaments. All groups will participate
in paddle tennis, table tennis, horseshoes. For
midget, junior, and senior classifications many
special contests will be arranged. These events
will include checkers, hop—scotch, O’Leary, jack-
stones, and bicycle parades. Each area will con-
duct at least one special activity each week. Track
meets will also be weekly events for intra~play-
ground participation. Swimming meets will be held
frequently with the entire playground participat-
ing, and there will be swimming pageants or water
pageants at intervals during the summer.

A city—wide Play Day, in which all of the indi—
vidual playground champions will compete for city
,honors in the various contests and events, will
conclude the summer program. Every playground
in the city will be represented. Mass participation
in all types of athletic events and contests will be
enjoyed.

Throughout the summer special family parties
will be arranged at all areas. The whole family
will be invited to participate. Cookouts as well as
picnics and special evening parties will add their
spice to the program. Teen-age programs will go
on in the various neighborhoods, where boys and
girls will meet to enjoy quiet games, dancing, social
recreation, and “gab fests.”

Arts and crafts will also play an important part
in the program. Every area will receive a visit at
least once a week from the arts andcrafts director.

 

5 THE FAMILIAR “batter up!" thrills baseball
loving America, Hillerich & Bradsby, makers
of Louisville Slugger bats, are again distributing
c0pies of the latest Famous Slugger Year Book,
brimming over with baseball facts and articles.
There are pictures and batting tips of some of the
game’s greatest hitters, past and present; all—time
batting records; and the story of the Louisville
Slugger from its birth through its present war—
time service.

Also now available is the newest edition of the
Official Softball Rules, supplemented by an article
on batting and pictures andrecords of the 1944
National Softball Championship

The Year Book can be obtained from local
sporting goods dealers or by writing direct to
Hillerich & Bradsby, Louisville, Kentucky, en-
closing 5 cents in postage to cover mailing cost.
The Softball Rules Books are available from the
same sources for 10 cents a copy.

 

Community singing, folk dancing, and rhythmics
will he conducted for all age groups.

Tampa is conscious of the need for stepping up
the recreation program to meet the present day
demands and, with a staff of over seventy—five,
expects to have a well rounded program to meet
the needs, interests, and capacities of all individuals.

"Real. Rugged Camping"

(Continued from page 123)
a bathing suit, a toothbrush, a knife and a fork and
a spoon. Campers were encouraged to wear their
oldest clothes and bring sweaters or heavy jackets.
Food was purchased wholesale by the camp staff
and each camper paid thirty-five cents, which was
his share of the expense for food. Supper in-
cluded frankfhrters, beans, rolls, cocoa and cake.
Each camper had hot cocoa and cookies after the
campfire hour and before turning in. Breakfast in-
cluded fruit juices, hot cereal, sugared buns, and
cocoa. The available drinking water was inade-
quate, so artesian well water was transported in

forty quart cans from a near-by dairy.

RECREATION

CHILDREN'S SUMMER CAMP 15‘)

 
  
   
        

. um tame Mn
BEHIND THE sun:

 

We know it isn’t easy to get along without new equip-
ment, especially when you’re trying to build a bunch of
youngsters into a hard slugging, winning team. We're only sorry that there are not
enough Louisville Sluggers to go around after we have met the needs of the armed
forces, but we know that you will agree that the men behind the guns should come first
in everything. So make do with your old equipment until complete victory is won.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY 80., |NC., LOUISVILLE 2, KY.

LOUISVILLE SLIIGGER BATS—and

 
 

M-2 GARBIHE STOGKS FOR THE ARMED FORGES-WElll'E MAKING THEM BOTH

Lighting was provided by camp fires and lan- Children's Summer Camp

terns borrowed from the local Civilian Defense
authorities. Precautions against the mosquito
nuisance were taken by laying in a supply of oil
of citronella, but interestingly enough, mosquitos
did not prove troublesome as the camp was held
during late August.

Our experience indicates that it is feasible to

(Continued from page 128)

two weeks the campers swam, hiked, played, re-
laxed with a book, rowed on the lake, fished, and
otlierwise spent glorious hours in the open. The
outdoor life developed appreciative appetites for
tempting, nourishing food.

take young boys and girls into the woods for over- A variety 0f camping aCtiVitieS were Open to the
night camping experiences. Many youngsters grow boys and to the girls. Chief among them were the
up in sheltered city homes and never have the joy following:
of roughing it in the woods, never enjoy singing Camp erafts Netufeloee .
around a camp fire, or seeing the beauties of the CWHC'IHTCS _ B'f‘l‘dent‘f'catlon
Singing and musicals Hiking

great Outdoors’ . . Dramatic productions Gardening

In 1944 the experiment was repeated With 1n- Swimming and diving Boating
creased success. About 130 boys and girls at- Life saving Fishing
tended the second season’s camp. The reports Water sports Story hour
from these young campers and the enthusiastic en- WOOdaaf" and aircraft Games _ o o

. - - Handcraft Playground activities

dorsement of this phase 0t our summer recreation Sports and athletics Beach parties
activities encourages \Vethersfield to make this Com and marshmallow Masquerade parties
overnight camping program a permanent feature roasts
of the summer activities—Harvey Fuller, Princi— _Annual report, Department of parks and Recreation,
pal, V'L'ethersfield, Connecticut, HighSchool. Detroit,.Michigan.

TUNE 1945

100 NEW ADVENTURES IN CHIP-CARI'INC

 

' i i I :1. .. at"
WAR LOAN
Camping and Governmental Agencies

(Continued from page 12?)

experience be made part of the lives of appreciable
numbers of America’s youth.

One of the dangers to be guarded against in
public camping is that of transferring a school or
playground program to the camp situation. Camp-
ing should remain primarily an outdoor experi-
ence of living together, with the camp program
growing out of the locale.

Family camping provided by public agencies
may be one of the ways of making available ade—
quate low—cost vacation camping for great numbers
now unable to afford it. It also offers recreation
that families can enjoy as units.

Additional camp facilities and areas for day
camping, organization camping, and week-end
camping are badly needed near many of our large
centers of population. Local, regional, county and
state park and forest authorities might well give
such facilities and areas more attention as part of
their postwar plans.

Day camping has expanded rapidly in recent
years. More attention should be given to ade-
quate areas and better-planned programs of a
genuine camping nature to make (lay camping a
more vital experience.

Co-recreational camping (boys and girls to—
gether) is being tried in a number of places with
apparently good results.

Some experiences with work camps and farm-

camps indicate that there may be very real value
in combining the camp and work experience in
certain situations with older youth.

There is additional need for camping experi-
ences for special health groups, as crippled chil-
dren, convalescents, tuberculars, etc.

New Adventures in Chip-Carving
(Continued from page 138)

will be experience through self—expression rather
than achievement. Achievement is bound to follow
if the attitude is in line with the inevitable steps
which lead to an enlarged vision.

The word “vision” brings us to the turning
point between being a technician and an artist. In
wood-carving, one has to visualize every cut, de-
termining which angles should be deep and how .
many shades of depth may be added by the more
shallow cuts. A good, almost infallible rule to
follow is to cut all right angles, or any angle that
approaches a right angle, deep and well defined.
From there on, shading may be done by graduat-
ing the depth of the cuts and by curving the lines
according to the style of the design. \Vhen the
deep cuts have been determined, it is possible to
work out many shading effects, especially if stop-
cuts have been made in three directions from one
point. A good plan to follow, after the drawing
on the wood is complete, is to mark all deep points
with an X and all long lines, or high points with
an 0. Then a study of the design will develop the
visual powers so that the best possible cutting
technique may be applied. It is too late to change
one’s plans or to cover up mistakes after the stick-
kuife has done its work. Every carver's style
gains character according to the depth of his stop-
cuts and the freedom and skill with which he uses
and finishes curved lines.

Design is, of course, an all-important factor in
any craft. Chip-carving is not “speed” work; it
must be done slowly and carefully. Time, being at
a premium, one cannot afford to waste good tech-
nique or material on poor design. The trial and
error system, in developing design, is draw and
erase until the pattern looks right on the wood.
If the carver is not an artist to a degree that
makes free hand drawing a creative part of his
carving experience, it is advisable to adapt good
patterns from examples of art to be found in books
or in museums. Every artist will agree that crea-
tive ability can be developed and inspired to a
point of satisfaction through adaptation. Origi-
nality is most commendable, if in good taste. It is
quite possible for the amateur to acquire both
qualities—originality and good taste—by studying
the long—accepted standards that have been set by
master craftsmen. The outstanding characteristic
of good design is simplicity.

Pennsylvania 'Dutch folk-art is worthy of special

RECREATION

FUN IN THE SUN 101

1
c

TWO-WAY BOWLING ALLEY S "IN ACTION" IN THE SPACIOUS GAME ROOM OF THE
N. C. C. S.-USO CLUB LOCATED IN JACKSONVILLE. FLORIDA

This unique, PORTABLE Two—Way Bowling Alley (requiring NO INSTAL—

LATION COSTli is proving to be one at the leading game—units, now
Included In RECREATION PROGRAMS all over the country. Because of
its E-Z set—up features. solid construction and convenient size, the
eliey is perfectly adopted tar immediate use as well as for postwar

building plans.

We urge you to send tar ’complete information and descriptive
literature including many. many letters praising the good, clean com-
petitive tun ond relaxation derived tram Two—Woy Bowling. . . . Mail

the coupon today! No obligation.

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828

0 114 EAST 32nd STREET a

mention because it has all the features that a carver
likes to work out in wood. The curves are not too
sudden, nor are the angles too sharp, while the
patterns of flowers and birds lend all the scope the
imagination can ask for in carving detail. Most of
the original designs were used in practical ways—
on chests, plates, tiles, trays, boxes of all descrip-
tions, chairs and tables. Many innovations can be
added to simulate some of the folk technique in
shading. Nails can be used to gain a “stippling”
or “studded” background effect. The nail is tapped
lightly with a mallet so as to make an impression
but not a hole, in the wood, and the impressions
or indentations are placed close together.

The temporary shortage of good stain and other
wood-finishing materials has been overcome by
ingenuity in substituting shoe polishes to gain

JUNE 1945

 

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name  ......................................................... ..
Address ......  .................................................. ..

City ...................................... .. State ............... ..

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

antique effects. Ever so many innovations open
up the way for each new convert to the wood
carver’s realm to try to find his own formula for
success in deveIOping an individual style. The
possibilities are infinite! \rVon’t you join us?

Fun in the Sun

{Continued from page 131)

On rainy days the buildings were utilized, and
the campers enjoyed the indoor programs as a
change from the outdoor activities.

In parks where there were Victory Gardens
regular periods were devoted to campers’ plots.
Cookouts were very popular and the variety of
foods cooked and the amount consumed amazed

even the campers. The Victory Gardens supplied
many of the vegetables.

102 FUN IN THE SUN

   
     

[IN THE PLAYGRIUND
IN 011m SIIIIPS

At Camps . . . In Club Work
Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Supplies things to do—to make—craft

      
   
    
     
       
       
   
    
   
   
   
   
  
      
        
 

projects suitable for boys and girls from

preschool groups through the junior-
high-school level.

  

When rainy days keep children from
playing out of doors, the ideal activities
are those which develop creative talents,

give a sense of accomplishment, and open

Modeling, ..

sketching, scrapbooks, weaving, gesso

new avenues of thought.

work, puppeteering, woodworking ——

these are only a few of the subjects which

are treated in Junior ARTS 81 ACTIVITIES.

  

You will find Junior ARTS 81 ACTIVITIES
a valuable aid in organizing craft classes

and in leading young people’s groups.

FREE: Send for free information.

'10c in coin brings you a sample copy.

$3 .00 per year

(10 consecutive issues
starting with current issue)

  

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

Dept. R

4616 N. CLARK ST.

 

CHICAGO 40, ILL.

Each camp having access to a pool used regular
periods in which the campers took part in our
“Learn—to-Swim” campaign, with the result that

almost all campers who could not swim, learned to
do so during the season.

Some camps installed on the site equipment
boxes containing all of the small properties neces-
sary for the day’s use. The campers’ clothing and
lunches were also left at this location, and several

' of the campers in rotation acted each day as

K. R’s, policing the site and guarding the clothes
and equipment, while the main groups were away.

Awards or honors were given the campers for
individual achievement, regular attendance and
good behavior. Groups were honored for the clean-
est camp sites, salvage drives, winners in group
competition, program planning, etc.

Some camps had their own courts composed of
the children, where those who committed any in-
fractions of the camp rules, were tried by a jury
of their peers. The judge and prosecuting at-
torney were elected for specifIc terms. Each child
serving on the jury when called. The clerk and

" court attaches were appointed by the judge. The

defense attorneys were selected by the child being
tried. It was surprising to note the accuracy and
fidelity of these court sessions, due-perhaps, to
court visits by the groups and in other instances,
by certain adult judges and attorneys invited to sit
in and take part in some of the sessions. Penalties
were inflicted in accordance with the severity of
the offense and a code' set up by the campers.
These penalties usually consisted of assignment to
some camp duty, or forbidding the culprit to take
part in some particularly desirable activity, such
as swimming, fishing, or boating for one or more
periods.

Campfires were perhaps the highlight of the
programs, and were held in the evening, usually
once each week. Council logs placed in a semi-
circle about the Iire site, provided suitable seating
space. Here again the programs were generally
organized by the campers. Here they sang the
camp songs, roasted marshmallows or hot dogs,
drank pop, ate ice cream, presented puppet shows
and shadow plays, performed Indian dances, satiri-
cal dramatic skits. Quite often these were occa-

sions on which previously earned awards were
p‘fesented.

Parents were invited to attend these campfire
affairs and generally enjoyed them as much as
the children.

RECREATION

DAY CAMP TID§ITS 163

Day Camp Tidbits

(Cantinucd from page 133)
pitch of emergency activities they had no part.
Their youth, even more than usually, barred them
from the conununity of effort that made up the
adult world. Their parents were worried. Many
of their homes were broken.

Day camps had proved their usefulness in the
prewar period. Now, if ever, was the time to see
whether they could do a real war job with the com-
munity’s youngsters. In Rochester, as elsewhere,
the added responsibility was made even more dif—
ficult by lack of trained personnel. Available coun—
selors were not experienced. Their program ideas
were limited. lint they rose to the emergency and
did a job. .

To meet the child need of having some part in
the world at war the administrative staff of Camp
SiSol chose to adopt the idea of the United Nations
winning the war and the peace as the theme of
their seven week program. This, they felt, was a
timely concept for children to learn about and ap-
preciate, a concept which would give meaning to'
the experiences the youngsters would be likely to
meet. Furthermore. it was a theme that would fit
easily into-the limited experience of the staff.

Both the organization and the activities of the
camp expressed'the theme. There were“ seven
cabin groups on] the encampment. For each the
counselor in charge chose a nation. Every child
received a passport signifying his entry and mem—
bership in the. United Nations. Each cabin group
elected delegates to the camp League of Nations.

As the usual activities of the day" camp pro-
gressed, songs and stories, games aha activities,
arts and crafts and costumes of the vai'ious nations
were introduced. An Olympic scoring board
credited to each “nation” the achievements of its
individuals or groups. Each group cared for a
plot of ground in the communal Victory Garden,
contributing their produce to the common food
store of the United Nations.

The campers ranged in age from live to twelve
years. It took about two weeks for them to settle
down into the routine, but by mid-season the
theme had really taken hold. There was none of
the usual mid-season lag in interest. Traditional
events like Mother and Daughter teas or Father
and Son cookouts were given an extra Iillip for
both youngsters and parents. Throughout the sea-
son stress was laid upon cultural activities—essays,
poetry writing, crafts—as well as upon sports.
Credit for all of these activities went 0n ,the-Olymé

lUNE 1945

 

 

MAKE THE SUMMER UUUMI‘

with

High Grade Film Programs
...EUR SUMMER CAMPS

Staff Training Subjects

“Camping Education”

“Youth in Camps”

“Axemanship”

“Learn to Swim”

“Tumbling for Physical Fitness”
“Elementary Tactics of Lifesaving”

“Basketry”

And Many Others

...FOR CAMPERS

A Wide Variety of Entertainment Films . . . Nature

Study . . . Sports . . . Travelogs of All Countries

. . . Religious Films . . . and Discussional Subjects

Film Guides Available on Request

Write for Classified Film List and
New Catalog

Y. M. U. A. MUTIUM PICTURE BUREAU

347 Madison Avenue
NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

19 So. Ll Selle Street
CHICAGO 3, ILL.

351 Turk Street
SAN FRANCISCO 2, CALIF.

710 Burt Building
1700 Putter-on Avenue
DALLAS l, TEXAS

164 NO'MORE WATER WINGS!

pic scoring board. The youngsters learned foreign
language songs, made clay models of villages and
architecture of many countries, traced on murals
the evolution of transportation. There was, oddly
enough, none of the usual noisy simulation of war
games.

The climax of the season was a United Nations
Bazaar. The price of admission was a bundle of
discarded clothing which enabled the camp to make
a sizable donation of used clothing to several Allied
W'ar Relief groups. The children contributed for
sale craft objects of their own creation, and proj—
ects carried out by the camp as a whole or in
groups were displayed and sold. Proceeds from the
bazaar went to the Allied War Relief Chest.

In looking back over the summer the adminis-
trative staff feels that both campers and counselors
got something new and worthwhile out of their in-
tensive seven weeks together. There were, of
course, many special problems of operation which
followed upon the choosing of the United Nations
theme for the whole period. But, in spite of them—-
and for the most part they were taken in stride—
the summer seemed very worthwhile. Perhaps, the
most satisfying thing about the whole summer is
the feeling that the adult group did not try to
escape the implications of the war, and that the
youngsters had a chance to find a release from the

tensions forced upon them in a sane and normal
manner.

No More Water Wings! "

(Continued from page 135)
A. About Teaching

1. Become acquainted—learn youngsters’ names, ques-
tion them, learn their attitude and their possible
weaknesses.

2. Demand attention—do not allow fooling or useless
waste of time. When the director blows his whistle,
he should receive immediate attention. '

3. Be patient—don’t attempt to teach youngsters in
one period. All- yOungsters vary in ability and at-
titudes.

4. Do not shout commands—keep your voice well
modulated. You will receive more attention.

5. Demonstrate—pupils like to see it done. Show
them.

6. Assist at all possible times—a little encouragement,
placing hand under chin, on back, may give a be-
ginner the incentive to “explode” and swim.

7. Use on o§irmative approach—don’t tell pupil he is

doing poorly. Rather tell him “this is how you do
it," and “that is a little better,” etc.-

8. Don’t play favorites—give every swimmer equal
attention and assistance.

9. Use formations—the following are suggested:
circle; facing each other; stagger formation; line
formations.

10. Be carefut—do not allow pupils to wander into
the deep area. Keep a constant check on the

group.
B. About Safety

I. Do not leave your post unless relieved by your co-
worker.

2. Watch your particular area. This is assigned to
you.

3. Do not converse during busy hours, It may mean

somebody’s life.

Watch along the sides of the pool in your area.

. Make sure diving areas are always clear.

Allow only one diver at a time on the board.

Do not allow running or ball playing.

Do not allow climbing over the rails.

First aid treatment will 'be given by director of

swimming or 'by the superintendent of the pool.

10. You must have a whistle. Use only when neces-
sary.

wwweme

C. Personal Hints

1. Your personal appearance must 'be above reproach
at all times while on duty.

2. Be alert and attentive while on duty.

3. Smoking, idling, gossiping, reading papers are for-

hidden.
4. Be courteous to patrons and visitors at all times.

Do not shout instructions or argue with a patron.
5. See that patrons as well as participants respect at]

rules.
6. Staff members must report at the pool on time.
7. Lifeguards must not eat lunch while on duty.

Conclusion

The future of Learn-to-Swim campaigns is of
major importance and concern to peacetime and
wartime America. We know the vital part that
swimming is playing in World \Var II. Our young
men and women serving in the armed forces at
home and abroad, on maneuvers, and on the battle-
field have learned its many values. A seventeen
year old seaman who was completing. his boot
training at the Brooklyn Navy Yard recently wrote
us the following: “I know I wouldn’t have passed
my swimming test today if it wasn’t for the train-
ing I got in Prospect Park Pool. I told the fellows
I learned in two weeks. I passed the Red Cross
tests. It was easy for me to understand and to do
it. Tell the boys and girls that those tests are ex-

tremel y important.”

We believe that these should be words that could
be said by every able-bodied American boy and

.'girl__'and to that end we aim our guns.

RECREATION

ADVENTURE IN DEMOCRACY 165

Adventure in Democracy
(Continued from page 12])
tion. Of course, time is set too for fun—for swim-
ming and boating, sports and crafts.

The Senate meets daily to decide on the eve-
ning’s social entertainment and to handle any
special problems which may arise. The evening has
a double objective—fun and the development of
initiative. Every part of the program presented,
whether it he a tune for a song fest, a skit for
drama night, or a costume for the ball must be
original and created on the spot, with material at
hand. Good resource pe0ple are available, but they
will not do the job. They will only inspire and
help get the desired effects. Each evening is full
and rich. There are spiritual evenings, active eve-
nings, hilarious evenings, evenings of square
dancing and of singing.

Three modern bungalows have been built by the
young people ; five hundred feet of sewer pipe were
laid and hundreds of feet of water pipe; bridges
and water front docks were built, roads repaired.
Last summer we had an emergency. In order to
get electricity to operate the new pump, 100 trees
had to be cut down in two days. Due to the war
and to the isolated location, no labor was available.
The matter was discussed with the Council. Should
we do without the pump? “No 1" said the camp-
ers. “W e will cut the trees. Show us which ones."
With hand saws (we had only one two-man saw)
one hundred trees were cut, on time. This accom-
plishment, eagerly participated in, was in addition
to the regular construction work, and even at the
expense of swimming and sports for two days.
Boys and girls are proud of their finished work.
It is not amateurish for it has been done under the
careful supervision of a master Craftsman.

The campers have their own kitchen and dieti-
tian, whose chief responsibility is to teach the boys
and girls the art and joy of food preparation. How—
ever, there is no formal class. The major section
of each meal is completely prepared by the young
people for the entire camp (over 100 persons), and
on cook’s day off each week, three completed meals
are their responsibility. The table serving is under
the direction of a dining room councilor. The
campers who cook and serve eat separately, so
their work is unhurried and accomplished with the
minimum of strain. Each camper cooks for one
day for each week at camp. He waits on table for
one day and washes dishes for two days for each
of three weeks.

JUNE 1945

 
 
 
 
 
  

Both Netlonnl regulation “hendhnll” nod
“softball” blues ere need In the standard
in mnny leeguee nod recrenionel depen-
meml. Gnleentced to give lam: til-yin:
utilisation. Netiunel pntented reversibl-
softbell hues heve pruven extremely
popular. Write for complete details.

  
 
  

  

NATIONAL

SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.
6:— u...aus'rE-r :4; 91* Lin Wu

 
   

Year after year the campers come back, proud
and happy to help manage their own camp and
make it their own by building it physically.

It will be of interest to note that in this frame—
work where there is no difference between boys’
and girls’ work or play, and every activity is par-
ticipated in equally and together, there has never
been any serious boy and girl relationship prob-
lem. There are frequent talks and discussions on
human relationships by staff members specially
trained for this purpose. However, the fact that the
campers are constantly together, very happy and
very busy and continually challenged as to their
ability and initiative, is part of the answer. Today,
when so many seek the answer to the restless-
ness of young people, at least part of the answer
lies in a living, working democracy where, under
expert guidance youth can plan and work for itself,
wholesomer and constructively if given an op-
portunity.

Crowning Glory for the Fourth

(Continued from page 1'41)

A more pretentious celebration can be given
using such long historical plays as Abe Lincoln in
Illinois, by Robert Sherwood (Dramatists Play
Service,’ $2.00, royalty $35) or American Land—-
scape, by Elmer Rice (Dramatists Play Service,
$.75, royalty $25).

Patriotic pageants have an appeal to the heart
of the Fourth of July celebrator—and rightly so.
They fit into the spirit of the day and they offer a
special chance for a large number of the commu—
nity’s citizens to participate. Probably the best
kind of pageant is one locally created around the
history of the community. Such a job needs care-
ful supervision by someone who knows how a pag-
eant should be constructed and what local history
is actually suitable for dramatic presentation. For
here,.again. a good “book”' is important and a

166 AQUAPARADE

 

 

you Gan Use

THE IOURNAL oi HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact, on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education. and re'creation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases Important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human

beings. $2.50 per year.
Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St... N.W., Woshlngton 6, D. C.

 

 

M

series of any historical incidents drawn from the
memory of the oldest inhabitants and strung to-
gether any-old-how does not make pageantry, let
alone a pageant. Fortunately for communities that
lack the peculiar pageant-making genius, there are
shows of this kind already available. Some of those
recommended by the National Recreation Associa-
tion are listed in bulletins available from the As-

sociation for the asking.*

One further word about the production. For it,
as for all drama programs, an over-all director,
preferably trained or experienced in such activities,
should be selected and given authority over all
phases of the production. If a director cannot be
given the entire confidence of the committee in
charge, he (or she) is not the person for the job.
For it is a primary essential of success in dra-
matics that there be one person in the “driver’s
seat” who sees the whole pattern of the show and
who can relate the disparate parts and guide each

part to its proper place.

 

*Program Suggestions for Independence Day Celebra-
tions, National Recreation Assocmtion, M13 919. .
*Programs of Patriotism, National Recreation Associa-

tion, MB 1151.

l

Aquaparade

(Continued from page 137)
into the spirit of the show and presented special
comedy acts and demonstrations.
The stage program included a male chorus, danc-
ing and singing soloists, dancing groups, and
specialty numbers. 'The nucleus for the male

chorus was selected from church choirs and com—
munity glee clubs. A music director was placed in
charge of the group arranging selections and re-
hearsals. A barbershop quartet of Lions Club mem-
bers measurably brightened one year’s Aquapar-
ade. Singing soloists have been exceptional per-
formers. These have included a resident who had
sung with Phil Baker, a singer with a famous
band who was stationed at the Army airfield just
outside the community, and a twelve year old boy
who later became a soloist with St. Thomas’ Boys
Choir of New York City. Community dancing
studios cooperated willingly and wholeheartedly
by providing well-trained talent for dance routines
and drilling the talent for the performance. A
group of young men interested in gymnastics and
acrobatics volunteered their services as “Aqua—
parade Atlases” and performed a series of gym-
nastic feats in soft lights which were beautiful to
see. A third type of special act was provided by
music studios which furnished instrumentalists for
feature numbers. The last type of specialty act
was the headline number secured by the Lions
Club through the U. S. Olympic Committee, the
Women’s Swimming Association, the St. George
Dragon Club of Brooklyn, and booking agents.
Performers secured included national swimming
and diving champions, the St. George Dragon
Club’s ballet group, and the Aquazanies.

A Yearly Success

Over a period of six years the Aquaparade has
become an outstanding civic project. Each year
the “S.R.O.” sign has been hung out. Capacity
audiences of 1,500 spectators for each annual per-
formance has netted the Lions Club a profit of
close to $4,000 over a six year period, money used
by the Lions to provide playgrounds and equip-
ment, a field house for the park skating rink, and
other recreation areas for the community.

The project could not have been the success it
was without the generous support extended the
Recreation Department and the Lions Club by the
city’s only newspaper— The Newburgh Daily
News. Editorials supporting the event, advance
publicity running over a month’s time in the form
of pictures, news stories on rehearsals and per-
formers, and paid advertisements stimulated com-
munity interest in the Aquaparade. The publicity
and the show itself were of considerable value to
the Recreation Department program and public
relations.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS . 167

Living War Memorials

N BOTH 'I‘lIE United States and Great Britain a
I strong sentiment has deveIOped for living war
memorials. In Great Britain the War Memorials
Advisory Council has recommended that memorials
should not only honor the dead but should also be
of use to the living, suggesting that they might
take the form of village centers, playing fields,
gardens or social centers. . . . In a discussion in
the House of Lords, the Earl of Munster said that
memorials should not take the shape of facilities
ordinarily provided by the. government. In that he
struck a needed warning note against the approach
to the purely utilitarian. It is not indictment of
the Unknown Soldier’s Tomb or the Washington
Monument to ,say that each is not of use to the
living, for these, like other symbols of the spirit
of man, are of the highest use. But in almost every
community a statue or other memorial stands as
solid and enduring proof that if symbols of the
spirit are not well conceived and executed, they
become sorry memorials. Two extremes are to be
avoided, and it is likely that both here and in

Great Britain the dangers of going to one or the
other will be successfully avoided. Each country
has among its memorials many examples of what
to shun and what to copy—From the New York

Sun, March 14, 1945.
W

Research and Restoration by Boys
(Continued from page 123) -

site they had cleared, sleeping on the ground while
they built the long house. Breakfast and supper
they cooked on the spot. For their noon meal they
came into the main camp. Working through the
summer they reproduced in large all the features
that they had set up on their model. The work
was started by the same boys who had done the
research in the winter, but it was carried on by
other groups, a different one every two weeks.

The job took all summer. On Labor Day the
Village was dedicated and became a part of the
regular installation at the camp site. With its
completion the Village lost its original value, but
similar projects are being planned for future sum-
mers when good counsellors will be on hand to
supervise the setting up and the carrying through
of details. The importance of such a construction
as a camp activity has been proven beyond doubt.

JUNE 1945

Magazines and Pamphlets

2 Recently Recelved Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter l

 

MAGAZINES

The Camping M'agazine, March 1945

Camping ’Round the Calendar, George A. Mozealous

The Conduct and Implications of Day Camping.
William M. Grimshaw

If Polio Strikes

Junior League Magazine, May 1945

Never Underestimate the Power of a Pupnet
Is Your School a Mausoleum? Eleanor Hard Lake

The Child, April 1945
Teen-Age Recreation Programs

Parents’ J’lfagazine, May 1945
Time for Camp! Toni Taylor

The Camp Fire Girl, May 1945

Play’s Important Too, Clara Lambert
Horses, Horses, Horses, Alice Noid
GIVlng a Pan American Music Festival, Ava Yeargain

Education for Victory, May 3, 1945
Physical Performance Levels for High-school Girls

PAMPHLETS

The Crafts and Present Social Problems, Dr. I. L. De-
Francesco "

The Related Arts Service, 511 Fifth Avenue, New
York 17, N. Y. COpies are available for the cost

of mailing—l%¢ stamp

The Function of Exhibitions in the Program of Art Edu-
cation, Mabel Arbuckle

The Related Arts Service, 511 Fifth Avenue, New
York 17, N. Y. COpies are available for the cost
of mailing—l%¢ stamp

Veterans’ Guide, Dallas Johnson

Public Affairs Committee Incorporated, 30 Rocke-
feller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y. 10¢

Model Liberty Ships

IN THE ARTICLE, “Joseph Lee Day—1944,” in the
April 1945 issue of RECREATION it was sug-
gested that an appr0priate project in connection
with Joseph Lee Day I945 might be the making
of model Liberty Ships.

The National Recreation Association has pre-
pared two sets of plans. Plan No. I for a simple
type of ship may be secured for 25 cents. Plan
N o. 2, with directions for a ship of more elaborate
construction, is available at 35 cents.

For further suggestions for the celebration of
Joseph Lee Day write the National Recreation As-
sociation for free Bulletin MB 1661.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

Practical Applications of Democracy

By George B. de Huszar. Harper & Brothers, New
York. $2.00.

HERE—AT LONG LAST—is a practical handbook written

for Mr. and Mrs. Average Citizen about democ’raey.
“For most of us the opportunity to participate in demo-
cratic processes is not in \Vashington, but where we are,
in our own communities." But in order to achieve this
goal most of us must learn the ways of democracy for,
“Democracy is something people do together." This book
is a threefold lesson in, “Do—Democracy,” for it states
the problem, its answer, and the method; treats of the
application of the method; shows the effect of the method
on the individual—and all with rare clarity and insight,
and on a level of practical adaptability.

Paintbrush Fun tor Home Decoration

ByézJéOA. Ornstein. Green-berg: Publisher, New York.

THIS IS, IN ESSENCE, a 'book of patterns for people who

like to decorate rooms or furniture or odd corners of
their houses. The pictures give the ideas, the written
directions tell how to start from scratch—~the scratch of
“not being able to paint a barn-door or draw a straight
line”-——and go on from there to at least a reasonable
facsimile of design and/or decoration.

Photo-Oil Coloring tor Fun or Profit

By Lucile Robertson Marshall. U. S. Camera Publishing
Corporation, New York. $2.00.

Mas. MaasHALL is a painter of note whose hobby is

photography. Among 'her portraits are those of
Dr. Maurice Brody of New York University, and of
Col, John W. S'heehy. She is also color consultant for
John G. Marshall, Inc., and so is well qualified to speak
with authority on the subject of her most recent book.
She gives clear and detailed instructions, supplemented by
illustrations, on each step that must be taken in trans-
forming plain black and white photographs to the more
exciting and interesting picture in full color. This is the
kind of “how to do it” 'book that should be of real value
to the beginner.

Proceedings of the Tenth Annual

Chicago Recreation Conterence

Lecture Reporting Service, 33 S. Market Street, Chicago
6, 111. $1.00.

ERE ARE FIFTY-EIGHT PAGES of summaries of the work-

shops and discussion groups and verbatim records of
other proceedings at general sessions of the Chicago
Recreation Conference held November 22, 1944. The
mimeographed pamphlet is divided into the following
sections: Morning Workshops, Luncheon Meeting, After—
noon Discussion Groups, Concluding General Session,
Conference Exhibits. ‘

168

Boys in Men's Shoes

By Harry ‘E. Burroughs. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $3.50.

THrs IS THE STORY of the founding, the development.

the hopes, and the ideals of the Burroughs Newsboys
Foundation and Agassiz Village, told Iby their founder.
Mr. Burroughs says, “Everything depends on how a
person learns to satisfy his ego.” The Foundation and
the Village are working with newsboys in Boston to
satisfy their egos in socially advantageous ways—to make
“good” {boys out of “bad.” The story of the project
makes fascinating reading.

Church Recreation

(Four pamphlets), Chicago Recreation Commission,
Chicago. $.10 each.

The CIIICAco RECREATION Commssron has prepared a

series of pamphlets on recreation in the church—in
“religious institutions of all creeds and denominations."
The pamphlets are “designed to aid clergymen and rec-
reation committees . . . and to establish recreation pro-
grams or expand those already in existence.” The first
pamphlet in the series, Why Church Recreation Programs.
surveys briefly the needs and the methods of recreation in
churches. The other three are titled Leadership in
Church Recreation. Church Recreation Progrmm for
Younger Boys and Girls, and Books and Pamphlets, a
selected bibliography for workers in Church Recreation.
The pamphlets are available from the Municipal Refer-
ence Library, Room 1008, City Hall, Chicago 2, Illinois.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRz'r'r, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIan, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. II. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GRRGO BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROnRRr WoooS BLISS, Washington, I). C.
HOWARD BRAucnaR, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWRR, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLR H. HASKELL, Tuscou, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Htcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAHISON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUStAvus T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

0110 T. MALLSRY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OcoaN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. StcuUNo STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. \‘VALSH, New York, N. Y.

FRzoanrcx M. WARnURo, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINAN-r, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY \VOOOWARD, Washington, I). C.

