The Language of Recreation

MANY WANT to make friends but find no suitable words.

Said a New England man of his New England wife, “Our real friendship began when she
let sand fall from her hand upon mine."

Said a very small boy-—-pre-school age—when taken to task for chasing with a rake an equally
small girl next door, “I only wanted to make friends with her."

Once in a diphtheria hospital a girl of two with a tube in her throat smiled and indicated
by a gesture that her beloved picture book was to be given to the little boy in the next crib.

Our dogs say much to us, licking our hands, dropping the stick temptingly in front of us—
without words.

Our children speak to us as eloquently, if not more so, before they become articulate in
words.

But now we live in a wordy civilization. And now in times of deep emotion and often
violent personal and world experience words go back on us. Words seem pretty hollow.

Parents find they do not talk the same language as their children. They cannot see what
is going on in their children.

Men who have been engaged in ughting the Japs come back to school. and this school
world seems like a world with a different language, a language that belongs to another era, another
century, until they sometimes feel, "I am a stranger and afraid in a world I never made."

More than ever now is needed a place for vigorous athletic life in good fellowship, a place
for singing hearty songs that give individuals release, a chance to go all out in musical expression.
Choral readings surely have an important place in helping people to participate in saying right
out what they want to have said. In the world of beauty, art, sport, simple comradeship, often
words are not too much needed.

Recreation centers help to drive out isolation, fear, and bring a feeling of neighborliness, give
a degree of confidence for going ahead to live fully and freely.

Sensitive men and women with imagination cannot but have a sense of deep and abiding and
grievous loss over the death and destruction of these years. Yet the world must go on. Words won't
help much. But a will to make all life, as far as may be, deep, rich, victorious, expressed in music.
drama, art, sport. can help. Life is more important than words.

There is a language of the living human spirit, a language of comradeship, of sport. a
language of the sharing of deeply satisfying human activity—a language that is known to dogs,

to very little children, that may be known to all who keep the simplicity of little children, a
language which the recreation center can help to maintain.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

OCTOBER I945

337

October

 

Courtesy Fato Iva Kazclj, Fataclub Linbb'ana, Yugoslavia

338 . RECREATION

Mad About Music-

0w THAT the war is over,
N it soon will be time for

another “piano raid” at VVinheld, Kansas,
famous little music center of the Western prairies.
Sedate citizens, with sleeves rolled up, will help to
"hustle" pianos from homes, churches and club
rooms—but mostly from Cunningham’s, the town’s
leading music store—to
the huge gymnasium of
Southwestern College.
There the volunteer
movers will set up “pian—
istic battalions,” ready
to renew one of the
most unusual music fes—
tivals ever held any-
where.

\Vinheldites brag that
practically every adult
resident under fifty has
at one time or another
studied and played the
piano. Yet, while the
town of 11,000 ran riot
with bands, orchestras
and choruses, for years
there was nothing to
satisfy the ensemble de-
sires of the piano play—
ers. A piano teacher, E.
Marie Burdette, pio-
neered the idea of a
mass piano festival and
Paul Painter, high school music director, took over
the final directing.

The piano shifting is on a huge scale. Here and
there home-built “dollies” are .used to trundle two
or three pianos of a neighborhood into one man’s
living room for a week or two. There a group of
players practice every evening from supper until
midnight. Next they assemble at the music store
where up to fifteen pianos are used for a week’s
rehearsal each by consolidated groups—and finally
there’s the grand rush on the gym with 100 pianos.

For two days and a night at the gym, relays of
players, assembling in company formation, re-
hearse in groups of fifty, polishing off their en-
semble performance. A battery of tuners go over

OCTOBER 1945

By 'WILLIAM F. MCDERMOTT

 

Courtesy Reading, Pm, Recreation Department

Winfield boys prefer Gershwin f0 Harry James

the instruments and put them
in harmony. Now the big
night arrives. Gay bunting and decorations color
the scene. Every seat is taken and standing room
is at a premium as the crowd of I,500 to 2,000
roots for its favorites.

There’s a preliminary pep program and finally
the fanfare : Through an
arch come the perform-
ers—lawyers, bankers,
debs in evening gowns,
mothers in their Sun—
day best, bohby-soxers
and college athletes,
grocers and insurance
men, barbe rs and preach-
ers. They march with
heads high and eyes
gleaming to their places.
At a signal the players
seat themselves, two to
a piano. The director
lifts his baton, and 400
hands begin rolling over
the keys.

The music pours out
like a mighty wave, fill-
ing the vast room to the
rafters. The crescendo
passes, and the roar of
100 pianos played in
unison diminishes to a
note so soft that it seems
impossible so many instruments are in action. The
crowd holds its breath as the nuances make richer
the melody of the piece. Here is more than unity
of performance; it is a unity of spirit born out of
love for music. As the last note of the concert dies
away, the crowd breaks out into shouting applause.
\Vinfield’s amateur pianists bow to their fellow
townsmen, wave to friends, then disappear into
the throng. The festival is over—all but shifting
the pianos back to their native haunts.

The unique piano concert is only one of many
evidences that Winfield is “mad about music.” Its
Civic Music Association with 800 members brings
to the town annually five or six of the high rank-
ing artists and provides 500 free admissions to

339

340 MAD ABOUT MUSIC

worthy high school music students. The Winfield
Oratorio Society, numbering 1,000 members—in-
active during latter years of the war but soon to
be revived—is accustomed to assemble a 500-voice
choir for a spring choral festival, supported by an
orchestra of seventy-five selected players from the
community. The Winfield Music Club, composed
of former high school students, sets up juvenile
music clubs to get youngsters into the atmosphere
of music.

Not musically a stuffed shirt, the town annually
staged, until the war, an old-time “Fiddlers’ Fes-
tival,” which drew contestants from all over Kan—
sas and Oklahoma. One of the star performers
was Bert Woodward, an eighty-year—old barber
with a yen for music, who learned on a $10.98
mail-order violin and branched out into making
his own. To date Bert has whittled out more than
200 violins from wood he imports from Norway
and Bohemia. Another popular stunt was a Bar—
ber Shop Quartet contest. A number of Winfield
firms and business clubs maintain male quartets
which occasionally meet at the local barber shops
to get the proper atmosphere. The rivalry de-
veloped into a demand for a state-wide contest.
Fifty barber shop quartets vied for prizes on the
Chautauqua Assembly tabernacle stage, a replica
of an 1880 barber shop.

Winfield’s madness for music started back in
the early 1880’s when J. S. Mann, a snappy young
Canadian haberdasher who enjoyed music but
couldn’t tell one note from another, migrated to
the frontier town, and Opened up a p'ants store.
Business was good, but the primitiveness of the
pe0ple irked him. He decided what they needed
was aesthetic uplift and started a chain of events
that has resulted in Winfield becoming “tops” in
music among the smaller cities of America.

Mann ran for the school board and was elected.
He advocated music in the schools, but when he
broached the proposition of tying up with two
neighboring towns and getting a teacher at $35 a
month—$11.65 per town—a rumpu's started.

“Tax our citizens for music?” shouted an aroused
school board member. “Never 1”

Mann was licked that time, but a co‘uple of years
later he won out, and Winfield took on the entire
support of a music director. A “professor of
music” arrived from New England, in Prince
Albert coat, gray-striped trousers and bow-tie, be-
ribboned glasses and cane. But unregenerate kids

took neither to the scales nor the professor and he
finally resigned.

In the meantime, a young music teacher from
Indianapolis, Louis M. Gordon, had quietly set up
a studio in Winfield and began giving private les-
sons, The school board hired him. A lover of both
youngsters and music, Gordon was a natural for
the informal easy-going town. He quickly cap—
tured the hearts of the children. Day after day he
plodded the village streets, giving youngsters a
melodious “breather” between studies by teaching
them simple tunes and telling them stories about
great composers. Music began to take on a glamour
for the children, and before many years it was a
common occurrence for boys to leave their baseball
and girls their dolls to participate in the voluntary
after-school instruction that Gordon instituted.

Meantime a couple of hardy but music—loving
youngsters were growing up in the Gordon house-
hold. The older son, Edgar, decided to follow in
his father’s footsteps. He studied in Chicago,
taught violin at Hull House, and at another set-
tlement organized a chorus of 100 factory workers.
Then he returned to Winfield to aid his dad, and
together they so intcrwove music into the life of
the community that it became known as the “town
with the soul of an artist.”

Young Gordon’s achievements drew the national
spotlight, and he was called to the University of
Wisconsin to head the public school music depart-
ment. Now Winfield has a periodic “Gordon
Day,” and when Edgar was last its guest of
honor, hundreds of singing children greeted him,
identifying themselves to him through their par-
ents whom he had taught. In tribute to another
great pioneering musician of \Vinlicld, an annual
music program is held in honor of the late Archi—
bald Olmstead, who built the Winfield College of
Music into a nationally known institution and who
developed hundreds of children into skilled musi-
cians by private instruction. To date twenty-one
annual “Olmstead Days” have been observed.

For many years .-Winfield has not graduated a
boy or girl from the grades who was unable to read
elementary music. Fourth graders are given music
evaluation tests. If a child shows no aptitude for
music, that fact is not emphasized. This is rare,
however, for tests over several years show that
seventy-five per cent of all the Winfield children
have musical ability to perform, while more than
ninety-five per cent reveal the capacity to appreci—
ate music. The 100 per cent musical literacy—-
ability of all to read music at least slightly—which
Winfield has attained is an extraordinary achieve-
ment when contrasted with the twenty per cent of

RECREATION

MAD ABOUT MUSIC 341

the general population who can read music. The
aim of the \Vinfield program is to make musical
consmners as well as producers. Music is given
the glamour and thrill of a game. Everybody gets
a chance to play, but likewise is able to sit in the
bleachers and understand and enjoy the fine points
of the game. Music thus becomes, naturally, as
much a part of a child’s life as eating and breathing.

From 1930 until last winter, Paul Painter, one
of those rare human dynamos, who eats, sleeps,
loves and lives music, was the driving genius of the
Winfield music program. Painter has never lost
the common touch. His home across the street
from the high school was a club house and perma-
nent port-of—call for about 800 youngsters of the

Delinquency offers no competition to
the pleasures of the "string section"

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Huntington, California

OCTOBER 1945

current crop and returning alumni. Following in
Painter’s footsteps is Don Pash, the current music
chief. Supporting Painter and Pash is Lester New-
land, string teacher and choral director, who has
shared extensively in music leadership of Winfield
youths.

The town pride, however, is the High School
Symphony Orchestra of eighty players, which Dr.
Howard Hanson, director of the Eastman School
of Music, recently said equals some of the better
known metropolitan symphonies. It tackles suc—
cessfully a number of the most difficult works
usually performed only by professionals. Besides
this there is a reserve orchestra of the same size,
which performs publicly and which acts as a
feeder for the main organization, and also two
junior orchestras composed of children from the
fourth to the seventh grades. After school and on
Saturdays, scores of grade
school boys and girls train
in the elementary sym-
phonies. It takes twelve
Saturday classes to accom-
modate the juveniles, and
the competition to gradu-
ate into the big orchestras
is as keen as it is to get on
the basketball team.

In addition, the Win-
field High School has a
symphony band and a
junior band, aside from a
variety of “specials.” Last
year the orchestras and
bands gave forty-five pub-
lic performances. High.
school choirs total 250
voices, and from the grades
another 250 selected sing-
ers can be drawn. The a
cappella choir has seventy
voices, and the senior girls
choir eighty. All orches-
tras, bands and choirs re—
hearse regularly an hour a
day, with full school credit.
In the last National High
School Music Contest in
1941 Winfield won “highly
superior rating” in almost
every event—more than
twice as many as any other
school entered—and is one

342 MAD ABOUT MUSIC

 

"  . | I ll  ' I
L.*'?.a chl"\-l s..." .L

Courtesy Rock of Age:

Its own symphony orchestra helps keep Winfield musically literate

of few cities to have star organizations in the fields
of public music.

Music appreciation in \Vinfleld is caught, not
taught. No textbook courses in music are offered;
everything is learned at rehearsal. Yet the instruc-
tion is so thorough that many high school students
are able to turn out acceptable orchestrations and
arrangements. A junior, Robert Shanks, last year
became one of the country’s youngest profession-
ally published composers, having had three en—
semble works published that year. Herbert Hawk,
bassoonist and honor student, composed an entire
‘ work for the symphony orchestra and conducted
it before an audience of 2,500 at the high school
commencement exercises. For two years the Na-
tional Federation of Music Clubs’ competition was
won by Dorothy Merriam, a high school student.
Today ten of the leading high school music direct-
ors of Kansas are from Winfield, and W'infield
graduates have gone on to big orchestras, to radio,
and to the movies, or to become conductors, all
over the country.

During the war, over seventy-five of the \Vin—
held high school students were in Army and Navy
bands and several of the boys worked their way up
to be conductors. Others improvised small bands
and singing groups all the way from Egypt to the
Aleutians. One flyer got his fiddle into his kit and
made music for a bombing crew while going to
and from raids over enemy lines. Another boy,

stationed on an island in the South Pacific, organ-
ized a few of the natives into a musical group,
some playing on improvised reeds and bamboo in-
struments and others singing.

Record companies say that, in proportion to
p0pulation, they sell as many high grade records
in VVinlield as in any other city in the world.
Music taste, as a result of the years of good music
in the public schools, has so skyrocketed that jazz
for listening purposes is only mildly popular. For
instance, the kids are not a bit wild about Harry
James’s playing, but they take to George Gershwin
like ducks to water, and the high school symphony
orchestra was one of the first successfully to per-
form “Rhapsody in Blue” in the original, un—
abridged form. Delinquency is a curiosity in W in-
field and night clubs have been unable to get a
start among high school youth.

Creativeness, originality and spirit of romance
and adventure in music give zip and zing to \Nin-
field’s program. Fun and frivolity provide some
of the unexpected twists in the setup.

Chamber music, which started in 1931 with en-
sembles of Clarinets, oboes, and bassoons, has ex-
panded until today the high school has ten groups
which go out to play for anything from a pep meet-
ing to a funeral. Vocally, the girls and boys form
volunteer mixed quartets, sextets, madrigal (six-
teen voices) and treble clef clubs. They meet and

(Continued on page 382)

RECREATION

Sports Heal War Neuroses

PORTS HAVE been used extensively

for the physical conditioning of

America’s fighting forces for
arduous combat battle. They have been used to
teach the value of teamwork to our troops. Rec-
reational activities also have been employed to
develop mental alertness and greater coordination
of both the mind and the body.

Today these same athletic activities, ranging
from a simple one-response game such as horse-
shoe pitching to group competitions such as base-
ball and volley ball, are being used to help heal
war neuroses acquired by veterans on overseas
battlegrounds.

Recreational therapy, used in conjunction with
proper rest, sedation, nourishment, and the most
modern medical care, is emphasized in the scores
of military and Veterans Administration hospitals
throughout the country to speed the recovery of
returned veterans afflicted with various mental and
nervous disorders which largely have had their
origin in the fatiguing rigors of war, the relentless
day-and-night thunder of artillery and in the nu-
merous other nerve-wracking elements of fighting
today.

It should be consoling to parents and families to
know that veterans in American hospitals are
actually playing their war neu—
roses away. Dr. John Eisele
Davis of the Veterans Adminis:
tration in Washington who has
been engaged in recreational and
group therapy for twenty—three
years, enthusiastically discusses
the marvelous curative value of
physical exercise in mending war—
shattered minds as well as heal-
ing physical wounds.

“Recreation, while not a cure—
all for all mental ills, holds an im-
portant place in the programs for
the rehabilitation of veterans,”
said Dr. Davis, who himself
served with the Engineers in the
first World War and who was
among the survivors in the sink-
ing of the Tuscania, the only

American troopship torpedoed in
that war.

OCTOBER 1945

By S. W. MORRIS
Washington. D. C.

“Many men with general paralysis,
melancholia, manic depression, vari-
ous types of psychoneurotic sicknesses

,and even those suffering from dementia praecox

are being hastened to the day of recovery chiefly
because sports have been found to exert such a
recuperative and corrective effect. '

“Recreation, if scientifically administered, is un—
questionably therapeutic. The veteran’s spirit may
be broken and the will to survive destroyed. The
patient may become very egocentric or anti-social
or even have suicidal inclinations. But games such
as baseball, volley ball, duck-pins, table tennis,
horseshoe pitching, golf, tennis, croquet, shuffle—
board, carefully planned, have inspired these men
to overcome their mental ills, to restore their Spirit
and social perspective.”

Play has a definite psychological as well as
physical influence, Dr. Davis said. He explained
that many patterns of lifetime behavior are estab-
lished in childhood games. These patterns may
serve as the basis for the creation of attitudes nec-
essary for the recovery of mentally—ill veterans.
Directors at veterans hospitals adapt the games to

the mood, sensory and physical aptitudes of the
patient.

Toy shop in a veterans hospital

 

Veterans Administration Photo

343

344 SPORTS HEAL WAR NEUROSES

The excessive use of drugs and the practice of
keeping patients confined to hospital beds for long
periods is yielding to recreational therapy. Bed
patients too weak to participate in outdoor sports
perform simple exercises in their wards. When
their physical recovery is sufficiently advanced,
they join in outdoor athletic activities. They are
encouraged to make their own recreational pref-
erences.

Patients with the severest types of mental dis-
eases are strongly persuaded to take part in swim-
ming, baseball, volley ball and similar games. A
patient who looks on disinterestedly at first in a
game soon loses
his inhibition.
The mentally-
afflicted veteran
is taught to play
with,not against
people. Instead
of buttoning
himself up in
seclusion, he
' starts to regain
his socializing
level and learns
to be coopera-
tive and frater-
nizing. He be—
gins to lose his
phobias, to re-
cover his confi-
dence and to
live again.

Dr. Davis,
who has observed excellent results
with “physical medicine” at the
Perry Point, Maryland, Veterans
Hospital, reported that some of these mental pa-
tients become so proficient in sports that they have
been able either to defeat champions invited to the
hospital or give them a “run for their money.”
The patients are organized into competitive teams,
and awards are annually presented to the out—
standing athletes. Separate awards are also given
to those patients who are able to inspire resistive,
apathetic or disinterested patients to join the bene-
ficial activities.

Dr. Davis recalled one mental patient who re-
marked, after receiving a medal for his physical

prowess, “The mentality may become bent, but the
athletic bent remains unbent.”

Veterans Administration decto'rs are oftentimes-7

 

A bedside loom for therapy

astonished at the agility, poise and enthusiasm of
the veterans who are finding recreational events
the open sesame to their mental recovery.

Dr. Davis said that he could cite scores of cases
offering testimony to support the curative impor-
tance of sports.

“I remember one group of thirty-two veterans
of World War I who had pronounced suicidal
tendencies. Eight months of an intensive recrea-
tional program'were productive of very encourag-
ing results. All except three of the patients were
cured of their suicidal thoughts and were pro—
inoted to open wards.

“One veteran
rid himself of a
particularly
strong suicidal
urge as a result
of his interest
and active par-
ticipation in
sports. Today
he holds a job
in the power
plant of a. vet—
erans hOSpital,
and has proved
himself to be
one of the most
diligent work-
ers there.”

Sports are
also employed
to restore the
health of veter-
ans suffering from a condition quite
common among returning soldiers.
The Army calls it “combat fatigue,"
while the Naval Air Force prefers to label it
“Operational fatigue.” But whatever it is called,
Dr. Davis said, this form of fatigue is not a men-
tal disease, but the “normal result of an abnormal
situation.”

“Soldiers suffering from combat fatigue are just
nervously sick, not diseased, and therefore no
stigma of mental illness can be attached to their-
condition,” Dr. Davis explained. “With medical
care plus the prOper rest, nourishing food, and
participation in outdoor sports the boy will ulti-
mately get well and be fully rehabilitated to his
home and job.”

Veterans who are victims of this type of fatigue

( C ontirmcd on page 390)
RECREATION

__.  ’- '
Veterans Administration Photo

Finger Painting Serves

the Serviceman—and Others

” NYONE WHO CAN sign his own
A name can do finger paint-

ing,” said a sailor to me
one evening in one of the recreation centers where
I have taught this new art to many servicemen.
Actually it is easier than that. It takes a child a
long time to learn to sign his name, but he can
learn some elements of painting with his fingers in
one lesson. In fact, when little Willie draws pic-
tures on a steam—covered window pane in his
mother’s kitchen he is finger painting.

Despite the ease and speed with which one can
learn to produce a first picture, finger painting
technique can be pursued for a long time by ex—
perienced artists without reaching the end of its
possibilities. This art is now about ten years old.
At least one example of it has been accepted by
the Metropolitan Museum. Many art dealers are
now offering serious works for sale in this medium.
However, its main appeal at present is as a recre-
ation or hobby. Anyone can do it, and almost
everyone who tries it is fascinated by the results.

Servicemen Like to Paint

Many a soldier or sailor trying finger painting
for the first time is completely carried away from
all thoughts of war, loneliness, illness, and other
troubles that may oppress him. For that reason it
is the number one favorite among hobbies now
offered to servicemen in many hospitals and recre-
ation centers.

Among many similar experiences, I remember
one young sailor who came into a center where I
was teaching on a particularly snowy evening last
winter.

“Want to try it ?” I said.

“Naw. . . . Can’t stop now. . . , Got a girl wait-
ing for me on the corner.”

However, the sailor lingered on the edge of a
group of men who were painting. Though he was
very young and very small, I noticed that the other
sailors accorded him a certain deference. Then I
saw the reason. He wore many 'decorations, among
them the highest given by the Navy. Some of the
men encouraged him to try his hand.

OCTOBER 1945

By HENRY BOLLMAN

East Gloucester. Massachusetts

“Well,” looking at his wrist
watch, “I might try just one.”

That was about eight o’clock on
a stormy evening. I wondered a little about “the
girl on the corner.” Three hours later my little
sailor was still struggling with a picture of a bat-
tleship. Beads of perspiration stood on his brow;
he was in the grip of a creative urge which proba—
bly had never before been unloosed. During those
three hours, that man’s life was enriched in a way
which could have a lasting and beneficial effect.

The Shore Patrol

“Seems kinda sissy.” 'That is the flI'St reaction
of most servicemen toward finger painting. This
attitude was very strong in one center which is
frequented by a particularly robust type of he-man.
These men were mostly drawn from the Shore
Patrol and the Military Police. The Army and
the Navy select their most doughty men for these
jobs. Most of them have seen action on several
war fronts. They are armed with gun and black—
jack and are prepared to deal with'two-fisted war-
riors without hesitation. During their periods of
leisure at a recreation center they are more often
inclined to a game of pool than any other diver-
sion. Finger painting seems somewhat off their
beam.

On my first evening in this formidable group,
the outlook for the cause of art was hardly en-
couraging. For some time I sat by my tables with
paints and paper without being able to tempt one
of the men to try his hand. It began to seem like a
wasted evening. But I reckoned without my host,
or rather my hostess, The chief hostess had seen
my plight and must have done some rapid under—
cover work among the men, for suddenly I saw
several Shore Patrolmen, all of them six-footers,
pick up another equally big sailor, chair and all,
from a group which was lolling about, and carry
him to my finger painting corner. They took off
his coat, rolled up his sleeves, and told him to
go to it.

It was all in the spirit of good fun, and the
victim went to work with zeal. It happened that

345

34o FINGER PAINTING SERVES THE SERVICEMAN—AND OTHERS

he had just returned from action in the Pacific,
and he decided to picture the PT boat on which
he served at Guadalcanal. Sailors usually pick that
most difficult of subjects—~the sea and a ship.
However, he struggled manfully, and finally came
through with a fine, strong picture of his beloved
boat.

After that the other men decided that finger
painting was not so awfully “sissy,” and from that
time onward the weekly class at the center en-
joyed consistent popularity.

A Southpaw—by Necessity

“Hey, teacher, here’s a southpaw, can you teach
him?”

“Sure, I can teach anybody,” I said, though in-
wardly I wondered if I could.

Left-handed people amuse and amaze me by
their ability to translate my right—handed teaching
into their left-hand methods. However, on this
evening I almost came a cropper.

A soldier stood at the edge of a group of paint-
ers, looking, it seemed to me, rather wistfully at

the work. He was very well groomed. His uni-
form was new and neatly pressed. His shoes were
polished. He was a credit to the Army. His dec-
orations included one of the highest that the Presi-
dent can bestow, He was so correct in his uni-
form that he even wore gloves—which seemed a
trifle overdone until I saw that it was just one
glove he wore, on the right hand. This hand hung
peculiarly straight and still.

“Try it, anyway,” I said.

“The trouble is, I used to be right-handed, until
we landed on D-Day. Now I’ve got to learn to be
left-handed.”

“Oh, it’s easy,” said I. “I’ll start you off. What
subject do you have in mind?”

Finger painting can cause the most intense
mental concentration. You can imagine the effect
on this man who was just out of the hospital,
facing life with the immediate necessity of chang-
ing from right-handedness to left-handedness. The
strain on both his mind and his body was terrific.

When I asked him what he wanted to paint I
was afraid he would demand the little gray home

 

RECREATION

FINGER PAINTING SERVES THE SERVICEMANmAND OTHERS 347

in the west, as so many of them did. He wanted
something even more diflicult. He wanted to paint
an old red barn with haystacks and cows and
chickens.

The direct application of color is not easy in
finger painting. The art consists mainly in re-
moving color, drawing on a colored background,
rather than in applying color on the ends of the
fingers. However, if you insist, it can be done.
I always try to please my pupils. I find it is better
to let them struggle with a subject that is far
beyond their powers than to lead them along an
easier path to quicker results, At least, that seems
the best way to begin. After they have tried and
failed they are more willing to follow the conven—
tional patterns.

But my right-handed-left-handed soldier pre-
sented a real problem. .

Then I remembered a slogan. “Never under-
estimate the power of a woman.” I called for help
from a hostess. A dash of romance seemed neces-
sary at this point.

From there on my problem was solved. It took
a long time for these two young people to paint
the barn, and the chickens, and the haystack. They
lingered long over details. The soldier insisted on
accuracy. He knew exactly where the door ought
to be, just how the latch worked. As they pro-
gressed, the soldier’s wistfulness began to leave
him rapidly. There was much laughter and banter,
and, to me, it looked like the beginning of a real
old-fashioned case of love at first sight.

At the close of the lesson, I felt that though my
efforts for the cause of Art may have been feeble,
they had produced for one evening at least, a
warm, satisfying, dynamic, human relationship that

might perhaps lead to a happy future for that
soldier.

Values

To be sure, these transient visitors to our ser-r
vicemen’s centers, perhaps attending only one
class, do not often achieve a picture up to profes-
sional standards, But the fact of achieving any
picture at all is such an astounding surprise to
many a Tom, Dick, and Harry, that he experi—
ences a real release of power. Over and over I
have seen a man who began as a doubting Thomas
——stiff, timid, barely interested—~suddenly wake up!

“Gosh, look what I done!” he exclaims. And
from there on, he is lost to the outside world,
reaching down into his own inner and subcon-
scious self for something crying out for expression. '

OCTOBER 1945

And this means of eXpression thwarts him less
than almost any other. Finger paints seem to
make sense right off the bat, whereas a violin or a
piano or a set of oils and brushes appear insuper-
able obstacles.

How About Civilians?

If finger painting is good for servicemen, why
isn’t it good for tired businessmen, or weary house-
wives, or distracted daughters, or anybody who
has the urge to create a picture but lacks the
time and skill to do it in the more conventional
ways? All who have tried endorse it whole—
heartedly.

For anyone who may wish to try his hand at
this new art, I have prepared a few directions
for the simpler steps, just as I have taught it to
many servicemen.

Your finger paints and paper can be obtained at
the nearest art store. For a beginner, I recom-
mend that you start with only one color. I usually
use black. Later you can experiment with addi—
tional colors to produce endlessly varied effects.

Technique

Take a sheet of special finger paint paper. Wet
the sheet thoroughly by immersing it in cold water.
The bathroom basin will do very well. Smooth it
out on a table, with the glossy side of the paper
upward. The table should be covered with oil-
cloth or other water-proof material. The paper
must be free of wrinkles.

Now you are ready to apply the paint. (By the -.
way, most pe0ple, even soldiers who are used to
handling oily machinery, are nevertheless reluctant
to dip their hands in finger paint for the first time.
The paint may cover the hands and even the arm
up to the elbow, for certain effects. But there is
no need to fear stains, because finger paint contains
soap and starch and a few other equally soluble
ingredients. It dissolves quickly in water. In fact
some of our servicemen find that after an evening
of using the paint, their hands come out cleaner
than when they went in. No small achievement!)

So—you apply about a small teaspoonful of paint
to the middle of the paper.

Spread the paint evenly over the wet sheet with
the fiat palm of the hand. You may amuse your-

self by swinging around in circles or figure ei‘ghts.
Try out the possibilities of design in this way.

( Continued on page 387 )

Palo Alto Does It!

ALO ALTO, Cali-
fornia, is situ-
ated thirty—two

miles “down the pe-
ninsula” from San
Francisco on the
southern arm of San Francisco Bay and adjacent
to Stanford University. It is a residential commu—
nity of slightly over 18,000 persons, most of whom
pursue their occupations in San Francisco and
commute between the two points, or are connected
with the University in one capacity or another. It
is only natural, therefore, that a good recreation
program would find its place in this city.

Community recreation has long been the order
in Palo Alto. As far back as 1919 a community
center was established and a city ordinance adopted
which provided for the creation of a Community
Center Commission charged with the responsibility
of establishing, managing, and controlling the en-
tire city recreation program including that on the
school playgrounds. From that humble beginning,
with a converted barracks building from a World
War I army camp serving as its center, Palo Alto
has come a long way until today it boasts a
$250,000 plant, exclusive of grounds, and a pro-
gram which annually attracts over 300,000 par-
ticipants.

The major units of the Department are clustered
within the boundaries of Rinconada Park, a beau—
tifully landscaped, oak-studded area of eighteen
and a half acres. The main building comprises
three wings housing respectively the Adult Thea-
ter, the Children’s Theater, and the general admin-
istrative oches together with the ballroom, dining
room, and several meeting rooms. Occupying its
own building on the same grounds is the Junior
Museum and, though not under the jurisdiction
of this Department, the Children’s Library, a
beautiful structure designed, built, and furnished
to meet the needs and desires of children, is also
situated in this area. It is adjacent to the Chil—
dren’s Theater and is connected to it by means of
“The Secret Garden,” a walled-in, turfed area with
many shade trees under which rehearsals are held
or story hours conducted. Boy Scout and Girl
Scout headquarters are also to be found here, the
former occupying a portion of the .main Commu-

348

By M. C. THILTGEN'

Director
Palo Alto Community Center and Recreation Department

A Year-Round Program at a Dime a Head!

nity Center building
and the latter housed
in a building of their
own.

Much of Palo Alto’s
outdoor activities also

have Rinconada Park as their locale. Here are to
be found a baseball diamond, football held, basket-
ball and volley ball courts, six lighted tennis
courts, live lighted horseshoe pits, a small chil-
dren’s play-pen with the customary equipment, and
two swimming pools. A large paved parking area,
and a broad expanse of lawn dotted with shade
trees and equipped for picnics complete the area.

Program

The most popular outdoor activity is swimming.
The circular, shallow pool, 100 feet in diameter,
and the 75’x 100’ deep pool attracted over fifty
thousand swimmers last summer. Free instruction
was given to over 700 non-swimmers. A single
day has found close to 1,500 water enthusiasts
availing themselves of the pool facilities, and de-
spite these congested conditions the accident fre—
quency during the last season was the insignificant
figure of six thousandths of one per cent. Tennis
and softball rank next in popularity, excluding, of
course, the ordinary playground and play-pen ac-
tivities. The most recent figure on outdoor activi-
ties shows a total participation of close to 175,000
persons for the year.

Moving indoors, let us first consider the adult
activities. Leading the way from the standpoint of
active participation is folk dancing. This diversion
is enjoyed four nights each week. Three nights
are devoted to instruction, with classes for begin-
ning, intermediate, and advanced groups. The
fourth night is devoted to social folk dancing.
About one hundred persons, ranging in age from
eighteen to eighty, engage in this activity each
night, wearing the brilliant and picturesque cos-
tumes of the peasants of many countries. No
charge is made either for admission or instruction.

The Adult Theater, of course, shows a much
larger attendance figure, upwards of 20,000 each
year; but admittedly over two-thirds of this num-
ber represents the audience count. However, about
7,000 persons. a year participate actively in the

RECREATION

PALO ALTO DOES IT! a 349

dramatic productions which are offered the year
round. A new show opens about every four weeks
and plays for twoor three successive week ends
depending upon the public demand. Except for
the director and technical director, no professional
help is used on any phase of the productions, and
the players, of course, are selected from residents
of the community who present themselves at the
try—outs for each play.

ter. Shows are offered almost every week through-
out the year, the plays being alternated with motion
picture programs carefully selected for child con-
sumption.

Folk dancing again finds its place in the pro-
gram for young people with a class for junior high
school students and another for boys and girls in
the senior high. Ballroom dancing and classes in
tap dancing are also offered.

 

Main entrance of Palo Alto's community center

On the children’s. level we find the dramatic pro—
gram heading the list. Last year the Children’s
Theater used nearly 17,000 youngsters in its pro-
ductions which played to audiences made up almost
exclusively of children and totalling well over
10,000. It is interesting that the number of actual
players greatly exceeds those merely attending the
shows. This is accounted for by the fact that the
director finds a place for every child that tries for
a part, even if it means writing in an extra charac-

OCTOBER 1945

The Junior Museum affords opportunity for
children from the first grade through high school
to acquire instruction in a score of crafts and skills
and to use the excellent facilities of the plant in
pursuing their hobbies. The science wing and ex—
hibit room make possible the coordination of school
projects with the Museum program of activities
by enabling students to view at first hand and
often manipulate pieces of equipment or historical
items about which they may be studying.

350 PALO ALTO DOES IT!

In addition, the Palo Alto Recreation Depart-
ment also Operates another city playground, three
school playgrounds, several neighborhood play
areas and tennis courts, the municipal baseball dia—
mond, and certain activities in the school gymnasia.
Likewise, in addition to its regular routine sched-
ule, the Department also sponsors several special
events each year such as tournaments, festivals,
hobby shows, contests, and exhibits. The highlight
of these activities is the annual Spring Festival
which features a pet parade and show that draws
several hundred entries. An outdoor pageant is
one of the attractions of this event and presents a
beautiful costumed cast of three to four hundred
children.

Costs

The net cost to the city of Palo Alto in provid—
ing this comprehensive recreational program runs
around $40,000 a year. Considerable money for a
city Of only 18,000 persons? Yes, if the taxpayers
had to provide that amount it would be prohibi-
tive. Actually, however, the total city tax rate is
only ninety cents per hundred! Seventeen cents
of this ninety would yield the necessary funds tO
operate the Recreation Department, but the fact Of
the matter is that none of the tax money is so used.
Palo Alto operates its own utilities department at
a considerable saving to the consumers and yet
realizes sufficient profit to include this recreation
budget along with several other municipally-sup-
ported features.

The Future

Those connected with the Department feel that
there are still many barren spots in the program
that need development. Music, adult crafts, camp-
ing, and water sports other than swimming are
among these and attention is currently being
focused on this phase of the program. Plans are
being formulated for the establishment this sum—
mer of several camping sites within hiking distance
of each other, and all within close proximity to the
city. Youngsters will be able to go to one or sev-
eral camps as they wish or to make the whole
circle in about ten days. Arrangements are being
made with the Boy and Girl Scouts and the
Y.M.C.A. so that the whole program will be
worked out on a cooperative basis with the Rec-
reation Department acting as the coordinating
agency. All children will be eligible regardless of
affiliation with the sponsoring groups Those re-
sponsible for the plan feel that it is in keeping with

the wartime restrictions on travel and at the same
time will afford a camping opportunity to every
child in the community.

Movement is also under way for the Recreation
Department tO inaugurate a recreation program
at the Yacht Harbor. This is maintained by the
Board of Public Works, but limits its present pro-
gram to the activities of the Sea Scouts and the
Yacht Club, a private organization of boating
enthusiasts.

Unlike many communities, visionary additions
to the physical plant on a grandiose scale are not
a part of this Department’s postwar planning. Re-
placements and rehabilitation of the present facili-
ties are receiving first consideration. While it is
anticipated that the demand upon the facilities and
Department will be much greater after the war,
it is generally felt that the present setup is far
from being taxed to its capacity. Thought there-
fore is being given to ways and means of effecting
maximum use of what is now available and tO
broadening and expanding the program to meet
any and all demands, rather than merely building
more buildings or deve10ping new areas.

Palo Alto is justly proud of its magnificent rec-
reation plant, made possible largely by the gifts’ of
one of its citizens, Mrs. Louis Stern, and it is
likewise justly proud of its low Operating cost of
approximately ten cents per year for each person
served by the Department. It recognizes that this
low cost is possible only because its residents are

- recreation-minded and continue to use the facilities

over and over in ever-increasing numbers. It is
further aware, however, that with such a commu-
nity the highest standards must be maintained and
only the best will be accepted. Hence its program
is in a constant state of flux, changing to meet
the demands of the community and to keep pace
with the leaders in the field. Only thus, in keep—
ing faith with its patrons, can the Palo Alto Rec-
reation Department hope to enjoy its continued
support and maintain its place in a city “where
people like to live.”

The children Of Palo Alto know the fun Of having
their own theater. The importance of a children’s
theater is everywhere clear. Recently RECREATION
has published four accounts of such activities. Two
of them, It Belongs to Them (Dec. 1941) and
Living Marionette: Take a Bow (Oct. 1944) go
into more detail about the Palo Alto project.
Other articles on the subject appeared in the May
1941 and January 1944 issues.

RECREATION

  
 

*3: 1' h... m  .

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

a UDIENCE: Come, Ye Thankful Peopte Come

NARRATOR I: we are gathered together to
bless the earth’s increase, the crops that are
gathered, the barns that are full. The good
yield of the land—fruit of the sun and the rain
and the wind—the hoard of man’s labor in the
growing season, is stored against the cold and
the dark. City and country pause between sum-
mer’s end and the winter’s beginning to give
thanks each in his own manner for the gifts of
the earth.

NARRATOR II: It is no new thing that we do.
From the time when the memory of man runneth
not to the contrary, the peoples of the earth have
honored the season of harvest with customary
ceremonies, with laughter and songs; with danc-
ing and with praise.

AUDIENCE: W'e Gather Together to Ask the Lord’s
Blessing

OCTOBER 1945

A

Program
for
Thanksgiving

TABLEAU I: Jewish family eating a ceremonial
meal in a sukkah made of boughs and decorated
with leaves, flowers and fruits.

NARRATOR I: Out of the East came the Hebrews
—old in sorrow and suffering while yet the land
that we call home was a dream—rich in cere-
mony and ritual. On the fifteenth day of the
seventh month, the month of Tishri, comes the
Feast of the Tabernacles, the Feast of Ingather-
ing or Succoth. Citron and a young shoot of the
palm, three twigs of myrtle and two willow
branches’ have been, from time immemorial,
symbols of that ancient command,

NARRATOR II: “Thou shalt observe the Feast of
Tabernacles seven days, after that thou hast
gathered in from thy threshing floor and from
thy winepress.”

AUDIENCE: Russian Harvest H ymn’l‘

TABLEAU II: A farm wagon hung with wreaths
made of corn and flowers, with wheat in the
center. The wagon is full of hay or .cornstalks
surrounded by scythes and rakes decorated with
ribbons and flowers. Conspicuous in the center
is the Baba. Young men and women in peasant
costumes are grouped around the wagon. A
group of children bring up the rear.

NARRATOR I: Old, too, when America was still
unknown were the ceremonies of ancient Bo-
hemia and Hungary—those ceremonies of re-
joicing that the seed had brought forth an hun-

dredfold.

NARRATOR II: When there was but one sheaf left
standing in the fields, the workers of Czechoslo—
vakia dressed it as an old woman whose name
was called Baba and, with singing and dancing,
with wreaths and rejoicing, carried her upon a
wagon decked with flowers and ribbons to the
home of the landlord where there was a mighty
feasting.

 

*Scc Thanksgiving Beak, {National Recreation Association, $.25.

351

352 A PROGRAM FOR THANKSGIVING

AUDIENCE: Round the Corn Steaks *

TABLEAU III: In thecenter stands the Quail. Four
men in peasant costume hold by hands and feet
a girl similarly dressed and swing her over the
stack.

NARRATOR I: o the north lay Poland, land of
legend and history. The Polish peasants, too,
saved the last stack of wheat. It, they divided
into three parts, and each part was braided and
the three braids were tied together to form a
tripod. This was the Quail. Beneath it the
ground was covered with a cloth of pure flax
linen which held three symbols of the earth’s
increase—a loaf of bread, a handful of salt, sev-
eral copper coins. The harvesters, in symbol,
ploughed the ground, swinging a young girl who
had finished her first season in the fields above
and around the Quail.

AUDIENCE: We Plough the Fields **

TABLEAU IV: From a moon, slightly left of cen-
ter stage, flowers of various kinds and colors
are dropping toward the earth. A woman, at
stage left, holds out her hands toward the flow-
ers. A man, holding a young boy by the hand,
stands in an attitude of reverence and awe at
the other side of the stage.

NARRATOR II: On the fifteenth day of the eighth
moon all China celebrates the fruition of the
year’s work in the fields. On that day the shops
are full of food fashioned in circles and decor-
ated with symbols of the moon. For is it not the
moon goddess that has wrought the work? The
harvest is in and at the fall of the dark, so ’tis
said, flowers will drop from the moon to the
earth bringing to anyone who sees them good
fortune throughout the coming year.

AUDIENCE: Corn Grinding Song *

TABLEAU V: An In-
dian boy kneels be-
side a mound from
which a green shoot
of corn is growing.

Thanksgiving Day

NARRATOR I: Many years
before the wind-blown
Mayflower reached her
rockbound haven, before
Sir Walter Raleigh es-
tablished his hapless
colony of homesick Eng-
lishmen on Roanoke Is—
land in a new found land,
Hiawatha, challenged to
wrestle by a young man

I945 will be a time for
special rejoicing. People everywhere will give
thanks for the ending of the war' and some

I communities will wish to mark the day with
ceremonies of particular significance.

A Program for Thanksgiving is designed
for easy production. It requires no elaborate
or expensive planning and few rehearsals. The
music suggested was "chosen because it is
easily available. Other appropriate songs or
hymns may be substituted at the discretion of
those in charge of the production. Costumes
and settings may be simple or more elaborate,
depending upon local facilities.

 

with “plumes of green falling over his golden
hair” fought with Mondamin and, on the third
day, overcame him as it had been foretold.

N‘ARRATOR II: Hiawatha buried the challenger
“where rain might fall on him and the sun might
warm him,” and tended his grave till a small
green shoot appeared.

NARRATOR I :

And before the Summer ended
Stood the Maize in all its bemty
With its shining robes about it
And its long, soft, golden tresses.

AUDIENCE: Alleluia! **

TABLEAU VI: A Pilgrim family seated with an
Indian Chieftain around a dinner table giving
thanks.

NARRATOR I : For that maize that kept them
from starvation, and for other blessings, the new
colony of white men in their new England de-
clared, when the colony had survived three bitter
years of suffering, a (lay of public Thanksgiving.

NARRATOR II: Their companion, Elder Brewster,
looking with seeing eyes into the future had
admonished them of their responsibilities, for
they were men with the feel of history about
them.

NARRATOR I: “Blessed will it be for us, blessed
for this land, for this vast continent. Nay, from
generation to generation will the blessings
descend. Generations. to come will look back to
this hour and these scenes of agonizing trial, to
this day of small things, and say: ‘Here was our
beginning as a people. These were our fore-
fathers. Through their trials we inherit our
blessings. Their faith is our faith, their hope,

our hope, their God, our

God.’ ”

AUDIENCE: Sing to the

Lord of H amest

TABLEAU VII: George
Washington seated at
his desk, signing his
Thanksgiving procla-
mation.

 

NARRATOR II: And when
the colonies had grown
to thirteen, had fought
their way to indepen—
( Continued on page 388)

“Thanksgiving Book.

“Singing America, .National Rec-
reation Association, $.25.

 

RECREATION

How Does Your Library Grow?

early in life. It is fairly easy to help a child

distinguish between “trash” and good reading.
But the line between the book that is not-quite-
good-enough and the book that combines excellent
text, intriguing illustrations and good bopkmaking
into an exciting experience is sometimes very fine
indeed. For no age group is this more true than
for the pre-school-through-second-grade youngster.
Before young Johnny is able to read for himself
he will more often than not form an attachment
to a book because of its pictures. Eventually he
will entice some unwary adult into adding the
author’s words to the pictures. But by that time,
if the words are silly or false or inadequate, it will
be too late to wean him away from the volume.
The illustrations will already have gotten in their
subtle work. So, it is important that the part of
your library accessible to the youngest children be
excellent all the way through.

There are, perhaps, no books for this age group
that are—to use a word more frequently applied
to books of a generation ago—“vicious.” But,
there are far too many that depend upon excellent
pictures to carry a dull or overly sentimental or
silly text.

On the other hand there are ——and .the heavens
be praised for it———an increasing number of the
“Right Kind” of books for the up-to-eight child.

FOR BETTER OR WORSE, reading habits are formed

Awards and Winners

In June two such books received special awards.
To Robert Lawson went the Newbery Medal for
Rabbit Hill.1L Little Georgie and Uncle Analdas,
Red Buck and Willie Fieldmouse and Phewie the
Skunk (who controls the small animals of, the Hill
by a mere arching of his tail) are, perhaps, some-
what reminiscent of the Wind in the lVillo'ws. But
Rabbit Hill is pure Connecticut, and the adventures
of its animals —— large and small ——are their own.
The mixture of fact and fancy which somehow
produces a convincing air of naturalness in both
story and pictures is the essence of Robert Law—
son’s writing for children. Adults will read Rabbit
Hill sometimes with a laugh, sometimes with a
catch in the throat. Children who hear it and see
it will find that they have a whole list of new
“friends.”

The Caldecott medal for “the most distinguished

OCTOBER 1945

J

American picture book for children” was awarded
to Prayer for a Child 2 by Rachel Field. The illus-
trator, Elizabeth Orton Jones, has just done the
pictures for another prayer—Prayer for Little
Things with text by Eleanor Farjeon'——-and had,
not long before, collaborated with Jessie Orton
Jones on a collection of quotations selected from
the Old and New Testaments and titled Small
Rain.‘ Here is a trio of books whose text and
illustrations meet on the common ground of sin—
cerity and interest and importance. Both authors
and illustrators have much to say to the very young
child about his daily habits, his contacts with the
world around him and his responses to that world
and the people in it. Yet there is none of the
“preaching” or grown-up moralizing usually guar-
anteed to alienate a child’s interests. In all three
books the text and the pictures complement each
other with a finesse that never loses sight of the
age and the interest of their “readers.”

More Books of the “Right Kind”

In a less serious vein the picture story of the
Little Red H en 5—heard with delight by succeed—
ing generations of children—has been retold by
Helen Dean Smith as she remembered it from the
version of her childhood nurse. Very young boys
and girls who have access to this retelling of the
adventures of the hen and her family will repeat

the happy experience of their older brothers and
sisters and cousins and aunts.

Youngsters who have already started to school
will enjoy the doings of V alery,“ the calf who came
to live with the Whipple family; who pulled the
teacart into the living room for afternoon tea, oc-
cupied the best upstairs bedroom and refused to
come down until she learned to use a sliding board
the boys had rigged on the stairs; and carried on
many other antics not usually associated with her
kind. Valery has something of the quality of the
Peterkin Papers and both for its text and its
pictures is worth a place on the library shelf.

For poetry reading in story hours Very Young
Verses, compiled by Barbara Peck Geisner and

 

Viking, New York, $2.00. 1
. Macmillan, New York, $1.50 '
. Houghton Mifllin, Boston, $.85

. Viking, New York, $2.00

Houghton Mifllin, Boston, $.85

. By Elizabeth Mallett Conger—Henry Holt, New York, $2.00

353

354 HOW DOES YOUR LIBRARY GROW?

Antoinette Brown Sutor,’ is a valuable asset. The
poems which make up this volume have been very
carefully selected and tested on groups of pre-school
children. Many of the selections included in the
anthology are fresh and unhackneyed though, (and,
of course quite prOperly) many of the old favorites
are “among those present.”

Most children, before they have learned to look
upon reading as a chore that 'they must “manage
somehow to get through,” are fascinated by books.
If they have access to the best during these years
when they cannot choose for themselves, when they
must take what is given them, they will be more
ready to accept later the idea that reading is fun.
Furthermore, they will have acquired a solid foun-
dation of good taste that will serve as a guide when
they come to choose their own reading matter
later on.

Books as Program Tools

“Books, can and should have a definite and im-
portant place in any recreation program.” That
statement looks, on the face of it, like a truism;
and in one sense it is obvious to the point of
absurdity. But, in another sense, it is not so
absurd. There is, probably, no recreation center——
summer or year-round—that is entirely lacking in
reading matter pertinent to the recreation field.
There may be, however, a department here and
there which is not making the most effective use
of books in the program; that has, perhaps, missed
out on the functional (to use that currently har-
ried and over—worked word) use of printed ma-
terials.

The approach of Children’s Book \Veek (Nov.
11-18, 1945) is as good an excuse as any for tak-
ing stock of possibly unused resources lying at
hand. Take for instance—and at random—the
Holiday House publication, Forest Patrol. Here
is an unsuspected mine of information for the
nature program. The book is a story of a year in
the life of a young boy who wants to be a Ranger.
It has a good, exciting plot and well-drawn, “real”

characters. And it is full of data about the animals .

and plant life in national
forests, about fish and birds,
about conservation and for—
est fire prevention. It could
be adapted by a good story-
teller, used almost as a sort
of text book for a nature
program, and serve as in-

Li.—

7. lIoughton Mimin, Boston. $2.00

Children's Book Week will fall this year on
November I l-l8. Consequently. this is per-
haps an especially appropriate time to focus
attention on the importance of books in the
recreation program. The material on these
pages suggests some books that boys and
girls might miss it left to themselves. as well
as some resources for information about
books: available to the recreation leader.

spiration for craft and drama projects. This is
only one of numbers of similar books published
each year which could become as integral a part
in the planning of a recreation program as the
more familiar handbook on this and that.

The difficulty is that few recreation leaders have
the time to go through the masses of volumes that
stock up each year to find the “functional” books.
Fortunately, that isn’t necessary. For there are
many and varied aids—many of those “resources”
of which we hear so much and so often.

There is, first of all, the local library (school and
public) and the local bookstore. These, because
they are on the spot and may be expected to know
or to be willing to learn something of the local
program, should be the most valuable and helpful
of all the available resources. But librarians and
bookstore-keepers are not, unfortunately, all eager
believers in the recreation movement. Nor are they
all authorities on all the books that are published.
To use or not to use them is a local problem, to be
decided on the basis of experience. (Incidentally,
the recreation leader may have an opportunity to
do a first-rate job of interpreting the program in
such contacts as these.) Many of the new genus
of librarian, however, tends more and more to look
to the community; wants to make the library a
cooperating part of the whole body of community
services.

If it is necessary to go outside the local commu-
nity there are an increasing number of annotated
and selective bibliographies available free or at
low cost. Such bibliographies are listed periodi-
cally in the Calendar published by the Children’s
Book Council, 62 West 45th Street, New York 19,
N. Y.

There are in addition all kinds of book exhibits
available at small cost which could be incorporated
into the recreation program. This material, too, is
listed in-the Council’s valuable Calendar.

Children’s Book Week itself—when booksellers
and librarians all over the country are emphasiz-
ing books for youngsters—presents, annually, op-
portunity for looking over the latest selection of
books published in the in-
terest of young readers. And
this same sort of oppor-
tunity may be found in some
communities where book
fairs or book displays are.
held periodically.

Books are something more
(Continued on page 389)

RECREATION

A Summer-Time Play School

HEN THE SCHOOL bell
Wrings for the last time,
and the long summer
vacation begins, it is not quite

the unqualified blessing for children that verse and
story would have it—particularly in a crowded

urban district. Boys and girls accustomed to-

spending most of each week at school, where work
and play have been carefully planned and provision
made for a variety of recreational activities, find
themselves suddenly on their own when summer
comes, and in search of things to do with their
unaccustomed leisure hours.

Nor are the mothers of these boys and girls
entirely pleased with the situation. They want their
sons and daughters to have the needed change, but
they worry about what their children are “up to,”
yet cannot spare the time it would take from house-
hold chores to supervise their play.

Mothers Turn Planners

It was a group of mothers with ideas like these
running through their
heads who sat down and
planned a successful sum-
mer play' school at the
Robert H. Brooks Homes
in Chicago. “Brooks” is
a war housing develop-
ment operated by the
Chicago Housing Au-
thority, and has a total
child populationv—count-
ing all under the age of
eighteen as children—of
more than 1,500.

Planned as a low-rent,
slum clearance develop- -
ment, Brooks was con-
verted to war housing
,when the war intervened,
shortly after construction
had begun. It is situated
in the heart of a blighted
district, on the city’s
west side, and across the
street from the Jane

Addams Houses. Parks

are remote, and the only

OCTOBER 1945

By KATHERINE R. STROUD
Staff Assistant
Chicago Housing Authority

sizeable play space within easy
reach is the playground area
surrounding the community
center, plus “play lanes” scat-
tered through the development—actually streets
which have been shut off from through traffic in
order to add to the available play area. There are,
in addition, the grassy front and back yards of the
individual homes which are perfect for small chil-
dren but not big enough for the older ones who
like to play games in large groups.

A considerable number of the Brooks children
were eligible for and enrolled in all-day care pro—
grams, since their mothers were engaged in war
work. But the majority of mothers had more than
one child and spent full time at the homemaking
job, with the result that their youngsters were in-
eligible for such services. There was, therefore, a

Quiet games for the older children

 

355

356 A SWIMER-TIME PLAY SCHOOL

real need for some sort of
summertime recreation
program for Brooks’
younger generation.

“Professional Help”

The mothers who
launched the play school
project did not do it en—
tirely unaided, though the
initial ideas were theirs.
They got sound advice and
direction from the recrea-
tion counselor on the staff
of the housing deve10p-
ment—a person trained in
group work techniques, and
with special experience in
working with children. It
was agreed that the play
school should use all the
facilities of the community
center, a pleasant red brick
building containing a large
auditorium on the first
floor, (-which could be cut
in two by folding doors)
and a smaller club room on the basement level.
\Vith these physical arrangements, three groups
could carry on various activities simultaneously,
without disturbing one another. Since they could
get guidance from the trained counselor, the moth-
ers decided it would be possible to staff the play
school from their own numbers. They figured that
'three adults would be needed to keep things run-
ning smoothly each day, and eleven mothers vol-
unteered to take turns as leaders. This way, the
burden would not be too great on any one person.

Program and Finances

Then they talked of what the daily program
ought to include, aiming at enough variety to keep
things interesting, yet trying not to tackle any—
thing so complicated that they could not handle
the supervision. Eventually they chose, as major
activities, arts and crafts, folk dancing, reading and
storytelling, “quiet” games such as checkers, domi-
noes and the like, plus outdoor play. Then, like
the prize in the box of Crackerjack, they threw in
tours, one a week, to some point of interest—mu-
seums, parks, zoo.

The folk dancing lessons brought up the subject

of finance, since there was no volunteer who could

.JD-

 

On the playground

do the job. They decided to charge an enrollment
fee of fifty cents, part of this to cover pay for a
dancing teacher, and the rest to go for books and
needed arts and crafts equipment. Hours were to
be from 9:00 o’clock each morning until 12:30.
and play school would be in session Mondays
through Fridays for five weeks. On tour days, the
children were asked to bring a picnic lunch from
home, plus car fare. Otherwise, there were no
extra charges.

After a little publicity, the play school had an
enrollment of 103 boys and girls between the ages

_ of live and thirteen years—the limits they had set

in advance—and total working capital amounting
to $51.50.

On a typical play school day the program went.
pretty much like this: roll call and general an-
nouncements for the day, followed by much noise
and activity as everyone helped enthusiastically
with putting away the folding chairs. Next the
younger children had arts and crafts—water colors
and crayons were the most popular media with
this age group—while the older boys and girls
played at thejquiet games.” After about an hour,

RECREATION

A SUMMER-TIME PLAY SCHOOL 357

the younger children went out to the playground,
to use the slides, swings, teeter-totter, and to play
simple games. Then the rest of the boys and girls
had their turn at making scrapbooks, weaving lan—
yards, and other crafts. When the smaller ones
returned, the older boys and girls went out to play
—baseball, tag or other games, as they chose.
Meanwhile one of the mothers read aloud to the
younger group until time for dismissal a little ahead
of the others. The last period of the day for the
larger boys and girls was reserved for reading,
games, or whatever similar occupation they chose.

The reading program was probably the most
unusual feature of the play school. In selecting
the books to be used, emphasis was placed on
choosing those which had merit from the racial and
minority viewpoint. Because all of the families
who live at Brooks are Negroes, and because par—
ents, in many cases, have not had the training
which would fit them to supervise and select read-
ing material for their children, this was a particu-
larly worthwhile effort. Unfortunately, there has
been a dearth until very recently of children’s
books about Negrocs that did not fall into the
“Uncle Tom” or “Little Black Sambo” pattern.
With help from the librarian of a near-by branch
library, however, an excellent assortment of chil-
dren’s books was found—stories which presented
Negro children and their families in normal fashion,
did not perpetuate stereotypes of the Negro race,
and were well written. Other books were aimed
at developing better understanding between cul-
tural and racial groups. The books were popular
with the children, as well as important in con-
tributing to their improved social understanding.

On the days when folk dancing was a part of
the program, some of the other activities were
eliminated so that both the younger children and
the older ones could have an hour of dancing.
Those between the ages of five and seven
thoroughly enjoyed their dancing hour, doing the
steps in time to familiar tunes, learning the words
to simple new ones, and giving expression to their
sense of rhythm. One of the mothers accompanied
them on the piano while the teacher danced along
with the children, conducting the class in very
informal fashion.

The older children, particularly those in early
adolescence, were much more difficult to handle
when dancing hour came around. If the dancing
teacher asked the recalcitrant youngsters whether
they would like to be excused to join the arts and
crafts group, or play at some other game-instead

OCTOBER 1945

of staying in her class, they would invariably pro-
test their desire to remain, though there was no
compulsion whatever about it. But the next moment
they would again be hanging back, poking fun at
one another, and making general nuisances of
themselves. At that age, the pattern of boys and
girls separating from each other and going off into
two distinct groups made it extremely difficult for
the teacher to get them to enter into the spirit of
any kind of dance, and she was usually completely
exhausted after the battle of wits that took place
before the hour ended. In spite of it all, they
seemed to enjoy it.

“Tour days” were the children’s delight, and
mothers cooperated splendidly by acting as’ escorts.
On these days, enough mothers would go along so
that each had responsibility for no more than ten
children—counting noses when they got on and off
trolleys, trying to keep track of all belongings, and
so on. Four tours gave the children a chance to
see the Field Museum, the Museum of Natural
Science and History, the South Side Art Center,
and Lincoln Park—with accent on the Zoo!

The last week of the play school, “graduation
exercises” were held in place of the tour, so that
parents could see what the children had been doing.
There were exhibits of the lanyards that had been
woven, the decorated flower vases, and the scrap-
books, and there was a program of folk dancing,
community singing, and a playlet—written and
directed by one of the mothers who had served as
a play school leader. More than a hundred parents
came to the affair, and many of them hunted up
the management representative to tell him that
they wanted play school repeated next year.

Debits and Credits

In evaluating their program, the leaders felt
there were certain shortcomings which next year
might be avoided. One of these shortcomings, they
thought, was the failure to provide any refresh-
ments during the three and one-half hour morn-
ing session. When the play school was in the plan-
ning stages, it was thought that penny milk could
be secured. Then, too late to make other plans, it
was learned that no penny milk was available dur—
ing summer months, at least not for groups such as
this. From 9:00 in the morning until 12:30 is a
long stretch for young children to go without food,
especially when they are taking strenuous.exercise
a good share of the time. The leaders felt that it

probably would have been best to charge an en-
(Canti-mted on page 386)

What They Say About Recreation

social circle of book friends is to see that

he owns good books. The world is full of
cheap and empty books and children readily get a
taste for them; unless better ones are provided,
how-are they to know that the others are not so
good P" rllay Lamberton Becker.

NONE WAY to see that a boy or girl has a good

 

“‘We distinguish regional planning as a means
of binding society into a distinct order of whole—
some living organism. VVe understand that it offers
itself in every way as a contribution to the better—
ment and happiness of human life.”—Ka.rl B. Lot:-
mann in Regional Planning.

“The wiser task of science is to enhance life
rather than to prolong it.”—Lord H order.

"The inertia of people is responsible for stagna—
tion and for not creating all that is rightfully ours,
and our cities are ugly because men have made
them so; they are the result of no planning and of
a disinterested citizenship.”——C. R. Morrison in
Parks and Recreation.

“The great inadequacy or even utter lack of
health and medical, social, and recreational ser-
vices for children in many of our boom towns and
industrial cities is more characteristic of an early
pioneering society than of a settled and prosperous
nation.”—-]Martha J”. Eliot.

“For a city to invest heavily in a plant to take
care of children and not use it after school hours
or during-the summer, while the children are sub-
jected to the hazard of playing in the near-by
streets, is shocking.”———Stanley M. Isaacs.

“The problem of craft today is so complex that
its answer will be found at the root of our whole
social structure. . . . Craftsmanship has a stake
in Democracy, Democracy has a stake in Crafts—
manship.”—From The American Craftsman.

“It is our business to help pupils develop hob—
bies and improve their skills and technics which

they may use in recreational activities.”——Strong
Hinman.

358

“\’\’e always choose happiness for its own sake
and never as a means to something else.”—From
the Ethics of Aristotle.

“Let us not forget that the truest reason that we
dance, the only real reason, is that in dancing with
unconscious pleasure we are restoring a balance
within ourselves, a balance between reason and
emotion. . . .”—From The C ountry Dancer.

“Craftsmanship to me is the making and de-
signing of a useful and beautiful object in one
creative operation.”———Manriee H eaton.

“Fitness, in the last analysis, means a way of
life designed to produce the maximum of efficiency
and contentment both for the individual and the
community.”-——Arlie V. Bork in Hygeia, May
I943-

“Dancing and building are the two primary and
essential arts. The art of dancing stands at the
source of all the arts that express themselves first
in the human person. The art of building . . . is
the beginning of all the arts that lie outside the
person; and in the end they unite.”—Haneloch

Ellis in The Dance of Life.

"The sense of humor is the oil of life's machin-
ery. Without it the machinery creaks and groans.
No lot is so hard, no aspect of things is so grim,
but it relaxes before a hearty laugh."-—-G. S.
Merriam.

“For a hobby to be effective in our integration,
it is probable that its motivations must be largely
unconscious. This is perhaps another way of say-
ing that recreation must be spontaneous to be en-
joyable.”—Karl and Jeanetta M enninger.

“I found out that although one may not become
as learned in shopkeeping as by going through
Harvard University, one may become wiser than
some of the men who go through Harvard, if
wisdom means having the things you know or
have learned permeated with love and sympathy
and understanding for your fellow men.”-——Edward

7A. Filene in Speaking of Change.

RECREATION

Singing in the Rain.

rain beaten by an east wind that soaked into

the very bones and marrow. Topcoats were
soggy and feet were dull—tired with the extra drag

of rubber. You’d think it a fine night to spend
before an open f1re——if you had one—or nursing a
sizzling radiator with a good book or your favorite
radio program for company. That’s what anybody
would think. But there were at least 175 people
in New York City who thought otherwise.

There is a pleasant room on the fifth floor of
New York’s City Center. A concert grand piano
on a platform at one end of the room faces an
organ at the other. Here at 8 o’clock a group of
peOple have gathered, come rain, come shine, every
Monday evening for the past three years. They
are a heterogeneous group. There are many races
.. represented and many age levels. An unshaven
man in a tattered sweater and a shirt that has
definitely seen better days sits beside a lad whose
tweeds are obviously imported and hand tailored
to special order. College girls with the latest in
“long bobs,” school teachers, doctors, lawyers,
clerks are there. An Army captain whose tunic
is heavy with decorations and campaign ribbons.
a line officer of the Navy, the lame and the halt
have ignored the adversities of storm and “other
engagements.” This is a motley crew. They
seem, as they stand or sit around, to have little in
common. They have in common one increasing
purpose. They have come together to sing. For
this is the regular rehearsal of the Collegiate
Chorus of New York City.

The chorus was begun three years ago by Bob
Shaw. He is a young man filled to overflowing
with that indefinable quality that is leadership.
The chorus is “his baby,” as one of the members
of the group put it. It is part of a dream—'a dream
to set America singing with artistry and fine
musicianship.

The 175 members of the group—including Bob
Shaw and “Bill” the accompanist—are amateurs.
They are not beginners at the art of making music.

EMany of them make their-living in some musical
activity. But they are amateurs in the true, deriva-
tive sense of the word, for they are lovers of the
art they practice. They are, incidentally, “non-
professionals” when they sing in this group, for no
one of them receives any payment foriparticipating

l IT was RAINING IIARD at 7:45 P. M.—a cold, wet

OCTOBER 1945

in the chorus. Each of them, in fact, pays dues of
$1.00 a month and buys his own music to boot.
Membership is open to anyone who can pass the
fairly rigid tests set. The chorus is run on strictly
democratic lines. An audition committee chosen
from and by the group judges the voice of anybody
who wants to join. If a candidate for membership
passes this first test, he must take a written ex-
amination designed to give evidence that he has a
sound knowledge of music in general. He must
also satisfy the group’s representatives that he is
interested in the chorus and that that interest is
not a mere flash in the pan.

This care in selecting members has paid off in
quality and in performance. Little time is lost in
rehearsal because of ignorance or slackness. There
is little fooling, none of the horseplay that so often
goes along with less well-disciplined groups. Nor
is this discipline imposed from without or above.
It comes because each member of the chorus is
concerned to prepare for a finished performance.
The slight, young, dynamic, quiet director is lord
of the rehearsal. A clap of his hands, a word or
two, a nod of his head is enough to set his 175
fellow singers repeating again and again a phrase
whose tempo or meaning or harmonic line is less
clean than it should be. For Bob Shaw is a per-
fectionist. What is more, he is a perfectionist who
knows how to get the peak performance he is
after without driving or ranting or relying upon
those tricks of “temperament” which- so many
lesser directors feel they must use.

This counsel of perfection is, perhaps, the thing
that is the most distinguishing characteristic about
the group. For they all partake of it in some
measure. They are not satisfied to slide by—to do
less than justice to the composer whose musical
forms they are clothing with reality, no matter
how fleeting. Their faces and their bodies are in-
formed with eagerness to interpret all the values
inherent in the score. There is no question that
they like what they do. Each one of those 175
people was working like the proverbial dog, and
each one was “having a wonderful time.” '

There is nothing pedantic about the group. The
whole canon of choral music— “classic” and
“modern”———is grist to their mill. And they are
adding to that canon for they have commissioned

( Continued on page 389)

359

A Museum for Your Children

By JOHN RIPLEY FORBES

LARGE MAN dashed from a . the dodo. In its place are wide

' Brooklyn subway station I. . D'mc’or cases—colorful and informative

right into a group of chil- W'H'a": 1" H°maday “designed to serve the needs of
Memorial Foundation

dren, scattering a strange assort-
ment of things all over the
stairs. As the children picked themselves up one
little girl was crying. She had broken her bug-
collecting-jar and scattered butterflies all over the
place.A tall, freckled-faced lad shouted angrily
that his butterfly net was torn. A laughing crowd
began to collect as two youngsters dashed about
trying to catch a large, slippery bullfrog escaped
from an overturned box. Questions from very
curious adults soon established the fact that the
expedition, so effectively upset, was on its way to
the Brooklyn Children’s Museum after a busy day
in a nearby park.

To most of the adults who watched this sub-
way drama, the children’s museum was an eye—
opener. City youngsters carrying bugs, frogs, and
even snakes from the country was something new
under the sun! Most of their children took their
recreation at movies or by playing games in the
busy city streets. Yet
here were boys and girls
playing in the city a
thrilling game of explor-
ers. This was something
worth looking into.

In recent years the
fortunate children in
some cities have had a
wonderful kind of rec-
reation at children’s mu-
seums. Don’t let the
word museum fool you!
You can be sure it doesn’t
scare the children who
participate in droves in
museum programs.

The New Museums

The old type museum
with its hushed atmos-
phere, its shelves and
shelves of specimens, its
crowded and ponderous
exhibits with long and
boring labels is dead as

360

even the youngest visitor. Boys
and girls come by the thousands
to programs based on exhibits changed so often
that one visit naturally'rleads to another.

Nature lore is the foundation of the children’s
museum program, but the child explores many
other fields, eSpecially social science and history
with their study of foreign lands. The child
learns to appreciate what is fine in the culture
and lives of other people regardless of race, creed
or color. Children from six to sixteen can de—
velop a natural interest in the arts and sciences,
and through this program they come to know
serious study in the guise of fun.

Perhaps one of the strongest reasons for the
success of children’s museums is that the program
places a minimum of restriction on the youngsters’
activities. Much that goes on is the result of the
child’s own desire which brings about a spirit of
cooperation and gives the youngster a true feeling

Snakes can be pets!

 

RECREATION

A MUSEUM FOR YOUR CHILDREN 361

of responsibility. This is
his museum and the suc-
cess of its program is up
to him. ‘Children respond
well to this freedom and
take great pride in their
museum.

Young visitors need no
urging to take part- in the
activities. The program is
a continual source of fun
and exploration which
holds the child’s interest,
not for one visit, but for
months and years. The
child’s love of living crea-
tures, his interest in na—
ture, his desire to collect
things and his delight in
clubs are all used with
remarkable results.

 

Courtesy Detroit Children’s Museum

Clubs, Games and Treats A museum game

In the clubs ‘children
carry on outdoor activities, getting acquainted plore the great outdoors. Others delve into the
with birds, animals, insects and flowers in their unusual customs and the activities of people from
native haunts. With held glasses, butterfly nets other lands. Or a club program may develop skill
or geologist’s hammers some boys and girls ex— in painting and craft work or newsgathering and

printing. The subjects
covered range from Indian
lore to photography, take
in anything that interests
“live-wire kids.”

Audience at a Saturday morning treat

Games are played by
children of all ages. The
most popular is the treas—
ure hunt. Clues take the
children all about the mu—
seum and at the end of a
most exciting chase there
will be a treasure that any
child would love to own.
This game is so popular
that children come every
time it is played and every
time a new set of clues
makes the chase a new ex-
perience.

On Saturdays the mu—
seum auditoriums usually
have a special treat in
store for the young visitor
Courtesy Geneva County (Alabama) Colored Children's Museum and long lines 0f Children

 

OCTOBER 1945

362 A MUSEUM FOR YOUR CHILDREN

are on hand early, many of them carrying lunch
for they plan to make a day of it. A children’s
play may be the attraction, or some explorer from
the Arctic or from some tropical island may tell
the children of strange and interesting places.
Motion pictures about various subjects are always
popular, and frequently the children through their
clubs (such as their dramatic club) may put on
their own entertainment. Story hour for the tots
is held in a small room, so the little folk who come
with the older children will have their fun.

Responsibilities

Being a museum
guide and wearing
the junior guide
arm band is much
(1 e s i r e d a s a n
honor, and out-
standing youngsters
may be seen taking
other children and
adults about the
museum.

The children also
have their own mu-
seum with various
officers—a kind of
museum within a
museum —— and all
exhibits and pro-
grams of this junior
museum are the
work of its young
c u r a t o r s. To
be on the staff is
perhaps the great-
est honor a young- ,
ster can receive and ' 3 ' - ,, ’ 1' - i.
there is much en-
thusiastic competi-
tion for it.

The Lame, the Halt and the Blind

Handicapped children are given skilled attention
and many thrill to the museum’s wonders as
curators and junior museum guides push their
young charges about in wheelchairs and hospital
carts. The blind are able to handle exhibits and
through their sensitive fingers emerge from dark-
ness to explore a thrilling new world.

The benefits of this educational and recreational
program are open to the young visitor from a

 

Courtesy Children’s Museum of Boston

Mounting butterflies-4M "right" way

home of poverty or a home of wealth and while
the greatest work is perhaps done with the under-
privileged child there is no discrimination and any
child will find the door open and an atmosphere
of encouragement and understanding within.

Informality and Fun

Formality and the stuffy dignity of the old type
institution are gone forever. Children lie on the
floor, coloring outlines of museum exhibits; play
exciting museum games; fondle live animals in
the Live Museum;
generally have fun.
The merry sound
of young voices in
all parts of the
building is wel—
come, for the age of
whispering is past.
The military-look—
ing watchdog of the
old fashioned mu-
seum has given
place to curators
and attendants
eager to answer all
questions, to in-
form and entertain
the young visitors.

History

To many people
a children’s mu-
seum is something
new in spite of the
fact that the first
such museum was
established in
Brooklyn, New
York over forty
years ago. Miss
Anna Billings Gal—
lup, Director for thirty years, made this remark-
able museum one of the most vital children’s
organizations in Brooklyn. It was not long be—
fore people in other cities began to notice what
was going on in Brooklyn. The “museum lady”
and her progressive children’s work were the sub-
ject of much speculation.

Boston opened the second children’s museum.
Indianapolis, Detroit, Minneapolis, Hartford,
Palo Alto, San Francisco, and other cities over
the nation soon followed until today there are

... -: " —-

RECREATION

A MUSEUM FOR YOUR CHILDREN . . 363

thirty-five such vital children’s centers. Many of
the larger adult museums throughout the country
v—seeing the value and need of such work—now
have active children’s departments or little mu-
seums within their walls carrying forward the

same fine work.

Evaluation

Some idea of the interest of children in this
recreation activity may be seen when we realize
that two hundred thousand youngsters visit and
take part in the activities of the Boston Children’s
Museum each year. In Brooklyn, Boston, and
Indianapolis children’s museums have been estab—
lished long enough to show how much influence
their program has on the lives of their youthful
visitors. Thousands of youngsters have had a
great new world opened to them. Many have
developed exciting new hobbies and interests.
Some have even found their life work through
these programs. For example, one child active in
a museum science club is now a well known physi—
cian in New York City. Another lad who enjoyed
his hours in a press club is a prominent journalist
in Boston. Still 'another followed through on an in-
terest in nature club activities to become an omi—
thologist and museum director. And so the list
goes. The program gives new meaning to life for
thousands of youngsters.

Living Memorial

Perhaps your community is seeking a fitting
memorial to its men and women who have died
and are dying in this second World War. A
museum dedicated to a more meaningful life for
boys and girls seems, soinehow, a singularly
appropriate monument to the young men and
women—themselves so lately among the ranks
of boys and girls—who have given their lives that
chidren everywhere might enjoy a full and free
life in a free world.

What About Small Communities?

A children’s museum can be established in a
rural community of 800 people as well as in a
large city of 100,000. In rural areas, through the
medium of a traveling program, a museum can be
brought to the most isolated region. In small
rural towns school boards can make it possible
to operate such a program on a county-wide basis
with one museum serving communities many miles
apart which might otherwise be unable to finance
such a program. Where population is greater,

OCTOBER 1945

each town or city can have its own children’s
museum. In some places branch museums may
serve children in distant parts of the city.

Organization

The first step to be taken, if your community
desires to establish a children’s museum, is to
form a committee of enthusiasts who will con—
tribute time and effort and find the necessary
money. Usually a series of informal conferences
are held between an active leader and those people
most interested in the children of the community.
It is most important that the leader in any effort
to start a children’s museum be enthusiastic about
the project and able to devote a great deal of time
to it. After a series of informal conferences, a
general meeting should be called to outline the
organization and determine the active parts that
each person is to play. It is very necessary that
your school authorities, Boy and Girl Scout and
Camp Fire leaders, social and recreational leaders,
clergy, civic club‘ and women’s club representa—
tives, all be asked to take part in this project.
You will find garden club members enthusiastic
and the PTA is certain to be interested. From the
beginning an effort should be made to enlist the
active participation of community leaders.

You will need a museum director or other per-
son familiar with the practical side of museum
operation as a speaker at your big organizational
meeting. If you can get someone who has been
instrumental in getting children’s museums started
in other cities, or someone who has dedicated
himself to the task of carrying this movement into
other places, so much the better. Miss Anna
Billings Gallup, former Curator-in-chief of the
Brooklyn Children’s Museum who now lives at
North Stonington, Connecticut is always eager to
help in any way she can. Miss Mildred E. Manter,
former Director of the Boston Children’s Museum,
and Mr. Arthur B. Carr, Director Emeritus of the
Indianapolis, Indiana, Children’s Museum, are
very much interested in seeing the movement ad—
vance. The American Association of Museums
in the Smithsonian Institution at Washington has
a Children’s Museum Section, and Mr. Laurence
Vail Coleman, Director of the organization, is
glad to cooperate on new projects.

Recently the William T. Hornaday Memorial
Foundation was organized with headquarters at
121 East 64th Street, New York City, to aid
communities in establishing children’s museums in

(Continued on page 391)

New York Considers the Needs of Youth

STABLISHMENT of a city—wide citizens commit-—
E tee “to formulate a well-rounded, coordinated

program” for the young people of the city, is
the primary recommendation of a 150-page report
released recently by Mrs. Winthrop W". Aldrich,
chairman of the Planning Committee of the CDVO-
Welfare Council Youth Conference.

The report summarizes the Fmdings of the all-
day Youth Conference held at City Hall on Janu-
ary 13 under the joint auspices of the Civilian
Defense Volunteer Office and the Welfare Council
of New York City, and attended by 800 profes-
sional youth leaders and young people.

“Youth itself should be the focus of attention,”
the report asserts in a note preceding the general
recommendations. “Planning should start with the
needs of people and not with an attempt to cater to
the administrative convenience of agencies.”

Declaring that many of the present programs
intended for youth do not reach the groups most
in need of them, the report emphasizes that great
skill should be exercised in making organized ac-
tivities appealing to young people. Schools,
churches, recreation and social agencies should
provide leadership which would be in sympathy
with youth’s desires, the report holds.

The responsibility of adults in promoting the
success of youth—serving programs is stressed in
the report, which proposes the development of “an
understanding and intelligent attitude on the part
of adults.” It continues:

“Adults can be intelligent about the problems of
young people and sympathetic with their striving
to resolve them. They can think more about up—
holding the standards they expect youth to follow.
They can do more to overcome their own prejudices
and inconsistent attitudes. These are required to
convince youth that they are sincere. They must
give evidence of a greater confidence in youth, and
allow greater freedom to develop character and
ability through the exercise of responsibility in the
home, school and community.”

Highlights from the more than thirty speciflc
conclusions of the report include the following:

Health

School health examinations should be more

thorough and purposeful. More time should he
allowed for the examination itself and for the

364

follox r-up, especially to answer questions that may
be on the minds of young people. Guidance ser-
vice, including psychiatric help and instruction in
mental hygiene, should be provided.

Venereal diseases should constitute a part of the
subject matter taught in connection with the com-
municability and prevention of disease. The con—
tent and method of instruction of this subject in
the schools should be worked out in consultation
with the Department of Health and other agencies.

Industry should assume responsibility for the
health and safety education of its young workers.

Recreation

The neighborhood should be stimulated to as-
sume leadership in formulating an over-all plan to
meet the recreational needs of youth.

New patterns of recreational activities should be
developed with a view to attracting persons and
groups in need of such programs and now unaffili-
ated with recognized recreational agencies.

Opportunities for promoting better inter-group
relationship should be used more extensively in
recreational activities.

Methods should be deve10ped by which young
persons share with adults the responsibility for
program planning and policy making.

More effective ways of recruiting, training and

using leadership should be sought and experiments
made with this end in view.

Education

Classes should be small enough to permit teach-
ers to know their pupils. Teaching procedures
should be based on an understanding of children,
and should utilize the creative energies of teachers.

Young people need to feel that their parents and
their teachers are working together. Such a feel—
ing gives a sense of security to values and goals.
Steps should be taken to develop useful and active
parents’ associations in all communities.

The extension of work-study programs as well
as the development of other types of work experi-
ence should be considered.

Jobs

Youth’s opportunity for jobs in the postwar
period depends, for the most complete and satis-

(Continued on page 390)

RECREATION

Community Recreation Center Quiz

Q. I represent a small
committee just organized
to secure the establish—
ment and operation of one
or more indoor recreation
centers in the schools of
my community. Our popu-
lation is 40,000, and
I believe that the school
board will make school
facilities available for rec-
reation center activities and
that city or school funds
will be provided to finance
these centers, provided my
committee can present a sound proposal to the
local authorities. We are thinking of running’ two
centers. Does our population justify two centers?

We as

A. Cities much smaller than yours are running
successful centers. It is wise, however, for you to
start with one andithen expand. Open one build—
ing for one season. There are many questions to
be considered.

Q. If we are to start with one center, should we
attempt to operate one in the high school, where
there are more facilities and which is more cen—
trally located for the entire community, and'then
open elementary schools for supplementary activi-
ties as the work develops, particularly where this
might be needed because high school gymnasium
facilities cannot carry the total physical activity
load—or could we run a satisfactory center in an
elementary school?

A. You can run an adequate program in a grade
school, but there are many things to be taken into
consideration. It is possible, but not always most
desirable. Actually, a high school is more cen—
trally located for more people, but you should con—
sider opening one center in the neighborhood which
has the greatest need for your program. The high
school might be too far removed for a certain very
needy neighborhood. Another factor is that the
young adolescent group’s need for the full high
school equipment would not be as great as it would
be for the older age group, and it is important to
bear in mind the needs of the teen-age group. Most
cities have one or more “sore” spots. with very

OCTOBER 1945

Here is a quiz on community centers which
we ho e will answer even your $64 question!
fed the questions of Miss Marion Preece,
Supervisor. Department of Municipal Recrea-
tion and Adult Education, Milwaukee Public
Schools. and in her answers she provides a
wealth of practical information on a subiect
about which little has been written.

The questions touch on all phases of com-
munity center operation in school buildings.
and Miss Preece discusses in articular some of
the problems which a group if;

and operating a community center program.

great needs. If the type of
program you want to put
into operation is clear,
then your chance for suc-
cess is much better.

Q. Then you would say
that if we open one center
to reach the whole com-
munity we ought to think
of using the high school,
but if we want to concen-
trate on a neighborhood
about which we are par-
ticularly concerned we
could well use an elementary school as a demon-
stration center and perhaps later expand into other
areas?

ces in organizing

 

A. Yes. You should remember that in a difficult
neighborhood people are going to expect a lot.
The more difficult the neighborhood, the longer
you should plan to work on this problem, as im-
mediate results cannot always be expected. Your
entire set—up would be infiuenced by the type of
neighborhood. Keep away from the words “bad,”
“under-privileged,” and “delinquent.” They are
very bad publicity when directed at a definite
neighborhood.

Q. What shall I do first? As I said, I am chair-
man of a committee, and I want to be sure about,
the steps we take in completing the necessary or-
ganization to insure the success of our efforts.
What are the first organization steps to take?

A. There are two types of committee which you
might organize. You might have a neighborhood
committee that grows right out of the neighbor-
hood, which would be very desirable, but you
would need also to have a sort of over—all, com-
munity—wide committee of interest to citizens
whose influence would be helpful in securing the
necessary action from local school and city authori—
ties. Methods in developing these committees dif-
fer according to conditions, of course.

Q. Then there are two things for us to do.
First, to organize the community as a whole to
bring the necessary pressure on the city council
and the school board-to get the money and the use

365

366 COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ

of facilities, because we need people with commu-
nity—wide influence and power to get this favorable
action; and second, to approach leaders in the
neighborhood to help plan and support the pro-
gram in an informal, preliminary way, so that
neighborhood sentiment can be developed in favor
of the center, with the possibility that 'once the
center is open this group can be added to or re-
organized, if necessary, as a permanent neighbor-
hood advisory council.

A. Yes. There are two ways the initial commit—
tee might start. There might be a spontaneous
movement within the entire community or among
a small group of interested citizens. You must get
the people of influence interested if public funds
are to be secured. In addition, you would have to
carry on the usual public education program
through talks on the radio, before luncheon groups
and P.T.A.’s, the support of newspapers and
similar channels.

Q. In approaching the school authorities and
the city we must have s0mething dehnite to pre—
sent to them in the way of program and costs. \V e
must have information on the need for the center
and what activities we plan to start there. Are
there any activities that you know of as “sure-fire”
activities with which we could start—such as physi-
cal activities, sewing, dancing? What would you
start with to get quickly the broadest neighborhood
participation ?

A. I think the gym activities are the activities
that serve the greatest number, and people accept
them as essential. People are sold pretty well on the
value of sports and games for children, youth, and
adults.

Q. How about social activities?

A. In many cities the opening wedge for the
use of the school building within the last few years
has been social activities for the teen-age group.

Q. Would you have a game room?

A. Yes—for two reasons: as an over-flow room
to relieve the pressure on the use of the gym, and
because there are many children who are not inter-
ested in the strenuous activities that are usually
carried on in the gym, or are not skillful enough
to participate in them. A game room is a socializ-
ing room, too. Activities in a game room are re—
laxing and educational for those who take part in
them.

Q. We think we can get a room on the street
floor to use for active games, but not the highly
organized type that is usually found in the gym.

\Vould that be desirable?

A. A low-organized game room is especially
valuable. Whether you have an active game room
for low-organized games would depend upon the
age groups that are permitted to use the center.
If the attendance is restricted to persons sixteen
years old and over there is not much need for a
low-organized game room, but rather for an active
game room for such activities as table tennis and
shufi‘ieboard. This room could be used for active
games part of the time and cleared other times for
social activities. In your center you might plan
to use the gym, a‘room for table tennis and other
quiet games, and a room for the active games just
mentioned. You might even have four types of
areas—the gym for highly organized activities, a
room or corridor space for active games, a room
for low-organized games for the younger-aged
group (during the afternoon, after school or early
evening), and a fourth room for quiet games.

Q. Would it be possible or practical to have a
low—organized game room for the younger group
open to them up to about 8:00 o’clock, and then
have it used by the older group?

A. You would have to. have entirely different
play materials and equipment for the different
groups, although both might like table tennis and
shufi‘ieboard. It should be possible to schedule dif-
ferent periods for different age groups, providing
certain activities from 6 :00 to 8 :00 o’clock for the
younger group, and others from 8 :00 to 10:00 for

the older.

Q. Could we use the gym also during the early
hours for younger adolescents?

A. Yes. However, when you open a gym you
will have a great demand for highly organized
games from the working boys and girls and adults.
One way out would be to schedule different eve-—
nings for different age groups. Any scheduling of
the gym should be based on how the demand
develops.

Q. In general, what age groups should we plan
to serve in the center? What is the accepted
practice?

A. In my city anyone who is of high school age

is admitted to the evening recreation center. I
think it would be a mistake to restrict the center

RECREATION

 

 

COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ 367

to the out-of—school age, unless there is adequate
provision being made otherwise for high school
groups. Certainly someone has to take care of the
high school age.. They need activities. They need
leadership. There are not many of that age, par-
ticularly in needy neighborhoods, who have money
to join private groups where the activities they
desire are sometimes provided. Of course, there
are some adults who discourage the use of evening
centers for high school age groups.

Q. Do they object to high school youth coming
to the evening centers because they neglect their
home work?

A. Yes. I met with our school welfare agencies
on this question, and they suggested that we admit
children, say just one night a week, but I don’t
think there is any assurance that the children are
going to be home doing their home work the other
nights. They might —be in the movies, walking
about, hanging around drug stores or standing
around in the entrance to the center. It is a ques-
tion of parental judgment and control as to the
amount of outside activity parents permit their
children to engage in, but it seems to me that that
age group is ready for the socializing influence of
activities planned for them in the centers.

Q. Then would you recommend that the center
be open to fourteen-year-olds and older or those
in the ninth grade or above?

A. Yes.

Q. Which is the better basis to use—age or
grade?

A. Age is theoretically a better basis than grade,
but I think grade is the easier to administer. I do
think the rule should be flexible enough so that a
grade school child who is over age should be in-
cluded in evening center activities with his own

age group, even if he. has not yet entered high
school. '

Q. Then you feel that on the whole, grade is the
best basis, providing intelligent exceptions are
made, but that such exceptions should not be solely
on the say-so of the center director alone but with

the approval of either the teacher or the parent or
both ?

A. Yes. Frequently a parent will come and ask
to have a child admitted, and if there is a good
reason, he should be accepted.

Q. Should we require membership or registra—
tion on the part of all those who use the center?

OCTOBER 1945

If so, should registration be when the individual
first comes to the center or after a certain period
of time, when he has had a chance to lind out
whether the center appeals to him and he plans to
attend regularly?

. A. I think there should not be any membership
requirement or registration for the general use of
the center.

Q. What about certain special activities where
there is need for fairly regular attendance, such as
dramatics and crafts? Is membership in these
particular groups desirable?

A. Yes. I think a center should have non-mem-
bership activities and membership activities.

Q. What about the basis for any fees or charges
made? You recommend no general membership
fees, of course. Is it practical to make charges for
other activities, such as weight-reducing classes, or
would that tend to keep people away who can’t
afford to pay the fee and who might need the
activity more than some who can pay for it?

A. I think there are certain what you would
almost call “essential” activities that a community
needs, such as the gymnasium and the game room,
for which no charge should be made, but you
would be justified in making a charge for organ-
ized classes and clubs which would have a limited
appeal and serve a limited number, and for any
other activities which might be called “luxury”
activities. The budget would not stand the demands
that would be made on it for all activities desired;

.therefore a charge should be made for some, such

as bridge lessons, golf lessons, photography, and
highly specialized crafts such as sewing, sketch-
ing and sculpturing, and language classes.

Q. In general, would you say then that where
it is necessary to employ an expensive special
leader for a group, or where the number concerned
is relatively small and makes the cost per person
high, some charge is justified?

A. It may not be sufficient to cover the entire
cost. The charge would be just enough to cover
the additional cost over what it would be in a
normal, standard activity.

Q. Would you permit any free participation in
these special activities, particularly for the youth?

A. I certainly would, on recommendation of the
teacher or welfare worker or some other qualified
individual. During the depression we admitted the
unemployed free to any activity.

368 COBMIUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ

Q. In discussing the starting program, we cov—
ered some rooms which we could probably use
right at the beginning—gymnasium and game
rooms. Do you think we ought to try immediately
to develop something around the auditorium, or
wait until later?

A. I think auditorium activities are among the
best for making the neighborhood aware of the
possibilities for leisure-time activities provided by
the center. Often pe0ple think you have just the
gymnasium activities, and it is from the auditorium
that you can recruit interested individuals or
groups for other activities in the center which are
desirable.

Q. What activities would you put on in the
auditorium as a start, before you have any or-
ganized drama or music groups to give perform-
ances?

A. Some centers use certain types of motion
pictures. At present they get interesting movies
from the OVVI and also have good speakers come
in. You might get servicemen who have returned
to the neighborhood to come to the auditorium and
talk at some of these programs. You could send
notices out to those parents in the community who
have boys in the South Pacific and other areas,
who might be interested to come to the center to
see pictures and hear talks on the places where
their boys are located. People like also to come
in and hear discussions of current problems. Some
exhibits attract attendance, and oftentimes tra—
velogues and slides on big game hunts have good
appeal. The auditorium might also be used for
clinics for players and spectators, conducted by
coaches in football, basketball, baseball, and similar
sports.

Q. How many workers will we have to hire to
run our center?

A. That will depend entirely on how extensive
your program is. You must have a director to take
over the reSponsibility for the building and the
program.

Q. Besides being responsible for planning and
supervising the program can the director himself
give any time to leading activities?

A. If you have a very small budget you might
find that the only thing you can do with the paid
leadership you can employ will be to open a gym—
nasium, and your director would then conduct ,all
gym activities and be responsible for the use of the

building by any other adult groups meeting under
volunteer leadership.

Q. Do you need somebody at the door all the
time?

A. I feel a doorman is very valuable for a good
many reasons. In the first place, I think it is fool-
ish to expect the director of the center to use his
valuable time for checking people in and patrolling
corridors, when he should be available for confer-
ences and the supervision of activities. The door-
man should be a person other than the director.
The director’s job is more than just organization.
It is up to him to promote and supervise, but he
cannot do either one if he is to act as reception
clerk and monitor. Possibly where there is only
one activity, such as a gym program, arrangements
could be made with the janitor to take care of the
door, but there should always be someone respon-
sible for watching the door—for telling people
where to go. If you ‘had the building open for one
activity the director and janitor might be able to
run it.

Q. Assuming that we may have three or'maybe
four rooms, not just a gymnasium, we would have
to have a director of the center and a doorman.
The director would be responsible for the total
program. Could he also then take responsibility
for something like the quiet or active game rooms,
which he might leave from time to time without
too much danger of things getting out of hand?

A. That depends on the age group. For younger
groups, and especially young mixed groups, every
room should have a leader.

Q. This would mean, then, assuming we have
the gym, two game rooms and a room for small
club groups, that we would have to have a door-
man, a director, a leader of gym activities, a leader
for each of the other two rooms, and custodial
service?

A. Yes—except that if you had two rooms that
were adjacent you might have one for quiet games
and the other for active games, and one leader
might be able to watch them both, if there were
not too many participants.

Q. Thinking of the payroll some more—it seems
that we will have to employ a director, a gym
leader, one person for the two game rooms, and a
fourth person (not necessarily the same person
each night) for special groups in music, arts and
crafts and photography. This means a minimum
leadership payroll of four people. I presume, of
course, the salaries would depend upon our local
conditions, .In addition to this leadership cost we

RECREATION

COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ 369

may have to pay the board of education something
to cover light, heat, and janitor service, unless
they contribute this to us. It still leaves the ques-
tion of a doorman. Do we have to hire one, or
could we ask the neighborhood committee to take
responsibility for organizing a volunteer service to
take care of the door? Would this not help to give
the center some of the atmosphere of being a real
neighborhood center?

A. About the use of volunteers at the door——I
think a volunteer could be used when the building
or the room is open only one night a week, but
there are certain standards of conduct and routine
with which he should be clearly familiar. An in-
effective volunteer might be a burden on the di—
rector rather than a help. If the building is open
several nights a week you should have a paid
doorman. As he is present every night the center
is open, he soon gets to know the people who come
to the center, what activities appeal to them, what
their behavior, weaknesses and tendencies are, and
also the operating policies of the center.

Q. In other words, if we are open more than
one night a week we would better hire a paid door-

man, but if we are open only one night a week we
might get by with volunteers.

A. Yes, but there is always the possibility of a
volunteer’s being late or being absent. For ex-
ample, your building is scheduled to open at 7:00
o’clock. The children are waiting, and the volun-
teer doesn’t get there till 7:10 or 7 :15. The paid
doorman is always on time. Children can do a
great deal«of damage in ten or fifteen minutes.
This would mean the director would have to act as
doorman until the volunteer came———if he did come.
All this confusion should be guarded against. A

smooth running center is essential to the conduct
of a worthwhile program.

Q. How many nights a week should a center be
Open? If we start with just one center do you

think we ought to plan to be open four or Five
nights a week?

A. I think it desirable to have the building open

as much as you can afford to, and according to the
demand and the available leadership.

Q. Do you think if we can get the money and
our preliminary organization and promotion work

is sound, we probably would have plenty of use
for the center Five nights a week? '

OCTOBER 1945

A. Yes. You might open the building certain
nights for limited activities. You might have Tues—
days and Thursdays just for the gymnasium and
special classes, Fridays and Saturdays for dancing
and social activities. For non—membership activi-
ties, such as those carried on in the game rooms
and lounges, the center could be open every night.
Of course if the demand warrants it, a full pro—
gram should be operated every night.

Q. The gymnasium will probably be needed
every night the center is open. Would it be pos—
sible to limit the high school students to two or
three nights a week?

A. Yes. There is such a thing as limiting the
gym to age and sex. One night at least should be
reserved for women and girls. There are the prob-
lems of showers, leagues and tournaments. There
should be fewer nights for girls than boys. Very
few girls use the game room at night. The game
room was originally opened in my city for boys;
however, in the last five or six years the use of
facilities and the participation in activities by girls
has increased tremendously.

Q. Is there need for something for youth over
week ends? Is it desirable to have the center open
Saturday nights, particularly for youth, and pos-
sibly Sunday afternoons, using only those rooms
where they might come to play quiet games such
as table tennis, and participate only in those ac-

tivities on Sunday afternoons which would not
violate community traditions?

A. Yes. I know some communities where the

‘ buildings are open Sunday afternoons for activi—

ties, and in a few cases even for dancing. The
policy of the board of education would enter into
this, also the community attitude, and the extent to
which the board of education would follow the
community attitude. Although Sunday afternoon
dances might not be approved, the community and
the board might sanction more informal things for
youth on Sunday afternoons.

Q. In considering the employment of a director,
I have a special question in connection with the
selection of a director for the center. We now have
some summer playground work and have a director
for the summer playground. He is a capable rec-
reation worker, and I want to know if it would be
desirable to have him serve as the director of our
community center, with supervision of all our
centers if and when more are developed. I ask this

° particularly because we have in the back of our

370 COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ

heads the idea of ultimately employing at least one
person full—time the year-round to be responsible
for the continuous recreation program indoors and

out.
A. Yes. This would be very desirable. The di-
rector’s working hours should not be more than
eight hours a day. If he has a full school program
he should not be asked also to take the full respon—
sibility for the recreation program. Every person
must have some leisure of his own. No one should
work 'more than eight hours a day as a regular

weekly schedule.

Q. If we employ a man full-time the year-rOund,
to be responsible for this center in the winter and
the playground work in the summer, spring, and
fall, what should his working hours be?

A. His hours should be from I :30 or 2:30 until
10:00 at night, with an hour and a half off for
dinner. Until about 3 :00 he could do his planning,
keep in touch with neighborhood leaders and youth
agencies, and in the afternoon operate a center in
the building for younger children. It is necessary
for the director of a center to know his neighbor—
hood as well as to be present in the center while
it is in operation, and this can be done effectively
only by a person who gives his full time to the job.

Q. Where can we turn to secure competent paid
personnel to direct game activities, game rooms
and lead arts, crafts, dramatics, music, and other
special groups?

A. I think naturally of the school, but I believe
we ought not to consider the school the only
source. Your director will know from his own
acquaintances in the community the people who
are well enough trained and skillful enough to do
the job. It is important first to analyze the job
and what it is going to demand in the way of train-
ing, experience, personnel, and attitude. I think it
is a good thing to draw up even for a small system
or one center an application form to be filled out
by applicants. There should, of course, also be a
personal interview with each person being con-

sidered.

Q. Then you feel that school personnel offers a
good source for supplementary workers, but that
they should not be selected just because they are
in the school system and want to earn some extra
money; that Selection of workers should be on the

basis of knowledge of the job and demonstrated
leadership ability; and that there- should be an

analysis of every job, so that individuals could be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for a
particular task.

A. Yes.

Q. Do you think this applies also to volunteers?

A. In general a volunteer should measure up
pretty well to every standard set for paid leaders.
However, there are certain standards the depart-
ment might demand for a paid full-time leader that
cannot always be met in full by volunteers. There
are other special factors which should be considered
in the selection and use of volunteers. A volunteer
will perhaps be available for one night a week.
Therefore, rooms that are open several nights a
week, rooms where standards in use of equipment
must be maintained, and game rooms where there
is a lot of equipment to take care of should not be
put in charge of a different volunteer every night.
That would be poor policy. The equipment costs
a lot of money and it is unwise to have so many
different people responsible for it, because what is
everybody’s business is nobody’s business. Volun-
teers could be used as leaders for special groups,
such as arts and crafts, or used only one night a
week in general areas as assistants to paid leaders
who are there regularly.

Q. Where can we get volunteers?

A. You can get volunteers from servicemen’s
groups, P.T.A.’s, civic clubs, the American Legion,
neighborhood organizations, parents, and from
your own circle of friends. '

Q. If we have a good neighborhood council in
the community can we put some responsibility on
it for recruiting volunteers in the neighborhood?

A. One place where we could be guided to our
advantage in our general policy of using volunteers
is the private agencies. Many of them have a pre-
liminary training course where they find out a lot ,
about a leader, in addition to teaching him what
they want him to know. They find out about his
reliability and his ability to work with groups.
Many people come as volunteers who are not de—
pendable, and then you have to set up certain pro-
cedures to safeguard yourself. You must know a
lot about that person before you turn over leader-
ship responsibility to him. If your neighborhood
council helps with volunteers, its .committee on
volunteers might well take responsibility for con—
sulting with other agencies using volunteer ser-
vice. In order to'save a director from a great deal

RECREATION

COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ 371

of ill-will it would be a good idea to have a lay
group which would be responsible for accepting
volunteers on his recommendation, so that it would
be known that the decision was with the lay group
rather than with the paid director. However, this
lay group or board should be carefully instructed
before they are asked to act in this capacity.

Q. Would you enroll volunteers for relatively
short periods, so you could get rid of them when
unsatisfactory, or would you try to sign them up
for the whole season?

A. In general, with volunteers it is always better
to have a definite period, but not too long a one.
The safest thing is to be sure about them before
you take them on. Analyze your center as to the
way in which you want to use your volunteers, and
don’t forget there are certain clerical jobs they can
do and other non—leadership tasks such as taking
responsibility for publicity. This kind of task might
be assigned to volunteers who are reliable and
capable but not particularly good for direct lead-
ership of groups.

Q. I understand that a number of cities have
used older youth for volunteers on playgrounds.
Could this be done successfully also in a commu-
nity center?

A. Yes, but it would be safest to use them only
as assistants to trained leaders and under close
supervision.

Q. Assuming that we employ as director a man
with a record of successful experience and train-
ing, could he not take the major responsibility for
training the volunteers?

A. Yes.

Q. Should he do all the teaching himself, and if
not, where can he turn for assistance in training
volunteers in special activities? Could not the
members of his paid staff, such as the gym di—
rector, assist in this training program?

A. Yes, if they are well trained in their areas.
Where they are not available for this you might
call in the head of the physical education depart-
ment of the schools for training volunteer leader-
ship in certain activities. Good art, music, crafts
persons in the school system might be used effect—
ively. Recreation personnel in private agencies
might be called upon also. However, it is impor—
tant that there be one head person responsible for
the training who is always there and who holds
things together, who does the over-all planning

OCTOBER 1945

and may or may not do some of the teaching. He
works with the different instructors so as to elimi—
nate repetition in the course. It is important for
the director and the staff to follow the work of the
volunteers closely andgive intelligent guidance to
their work. This is one of the most vital points in
the use of volunteers, to provide adequate super-
vision and to have one person responsible for it.
You must feed volunteers with in-service training
and with definite conference periods. If you have
a local college or teachers college from which you
draw students and volunteers, there should be one
person in that college who is responsible for the
volunteers assigned to you. There should be joint
supervision and conferences between the people in
the college and those in the field. If there is any
way the work of student volunteers can be related
to a practice teaching period, chances of a success-
ful use of volunteers are increased. However, you
will have to guarantee intelligent supervision before
a school will give a student credit for this work.
On the other hand, the practice of schools of send—
ing out student volunteers for one semester is

poor policy. They should really work on a mini-
mum basis of one year.

Q. How many weeks should we plan to operate
the community center?

A. It depends upon your budget. We have some
buildings open twelve months, and others open on
a full-time basis for eight months, but with dances
twelve months of the year on Saturday. nights. In
many buildings we do not open our gyms until
about the first of October, and they are used until
about the first of May. Of course, they are closed
during the Christmas and Easter holidays. This
makes the total Operation twenty-eight weeks. If
your centers are open 'five nights a week, that would

mean a total of one hundred forty nights during
the indoor season.

Q. We have discussed personnel, janitor service,
and cost for light and heat, which the board of
education may provide or which we may have to
pay for, based on board of education costs. How
much should we allow in our financial planning

for other expenses such as recreation supplies and
equipment?

A. Assuming you open a gym, a quiet game
room, and an active game room, you will have to
have indoor baseballs, basketballs, volley balls,
standards and nets, mending equipment, needles,
laces,pumps, tables, chairs, cupboards, games such

372 COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER QUIZ

as checkers, chess, and all sorts of table games.
Many such games might be mentioned; in our cen-
ters we have almost a hundred different games——
bean bags, puzzles, maps, tricks, magazines on air—
planes, mechanics and nature, and good story
magazines. In the activeigame room you would
need table tennis and shuffleboard equipment. Dart
ball is an excellent game for working men, so you
would need equipment for this. A period might
well be reserved in the active game room for older
men for a work out with medicine ball. Then there
are office supplies, such as stationery, cards, mimeo-
graph paper, mimeograph machine if you cannot
borrow one from time to time, files, desks, office
furniture, telephone service, postage, publicity
fliers and printed folders. You will also have the
cost of minor maintenance supplies, if these are not
provided by the schools as a part of their janitor
service to you. You will need material for mark—
ing game courts, report forms, and similar supplies.

Q. Will we need about $300?

A. This is hard to tell, as it would depend upon
the size and number of your rooms and the number
of different activities you carry on. You will need
several hundred dollars at least. In addition, I
would recommend that you have cooking utensils
separate from those used by the day school, with
cupboards for them, tables, cloths, dish towels.
(Always insist on good sanitary rules in connec-
tion with their use. Be particularly careful about
washing dishes.) We always have a stove in our
centers where boys and girls can cook and serve
the food. If there is no stove in the school, try to
find a place for one. Try, too, to have a room for
the younger children which they can furnish them-
selves. If paper towels and soap are not provided
by the school, you will have to buy them.

Q. In preliminary discussions with our school
people on the use of their buildings the problem of
storage has come up. What do you do with all
this special equipment for the center during the
day, when the regular storage space of the school
is not adequate to take care of it?

A. Fortunately many old schools have big cloak—
rooms, and we have been able to partition these
cloakrooms to provide a section which may be used
for storage of materials under lock and key. This
space is used for storing our tables, games, and
game equipment such as ping-pong tables, and
mirrors for sewing classes. In the gym there
should be separate cupboards for recreation equip-

ment. In the quiet game room there should be
cupboards large enough so the game material can
be arranged in orderly fashion. The games should
be kept in good, substantial boxes, either metal or
well-made wooden boxes, carefully labeled.

Q. What about checking coats and hats in the
center?

A. We use an ordinary classroom and equip the
doorway with a special half-door or gate. We pro—
vide check boards for tags to check clothes which
are put on desks and seats. We get school boys
for 75 cents or a dollar a night to act as checkers,
and they have a chance to do their home work
and study while on the job. In some of the small
centers the doorman serves also as checker.

Q. How many participants can one leader take
care of at one time?

A. I have seen a quite orderly game room with
fifty to sixty children. If you are to serve large
groups in the gym, you must have a definite gym
schedule. An intelligent gym leader can work on
a plan which would take care of a lot of people.
If you have a large center attendance you ought
to have certain gym nights for special games, but
you should also have time for pick-up games for
boys and girls who do not wish to play in league
or tournament games.

Q. I suppose that in the average school gym
probably only one worker is needed. Can he take
care of twenty-five to fifty people at one time?

A. Yes—and more.

Q. How many people can a special leader take
care of, in a crafts group, say, so that he can give
enough personal guidance and attention to indi-
viduals who come there because they want to get
his expert assistance?

A. Fifteen or twenty, but there should be a
larger registration to insure that attendance. You
can safely register twenty-five in such a group. In
drama or music, it will depend upon the size of
the cast needed, if the group is working on a pro—
duction. A leader should not attempt to work with
too large a group in drama. In any drama or music
group more can be handled in classes than when
you are working on an actual production. In drama
you should have freedom to schedule small groups
for rehearsals. You might have a large registra-
tion, but never work with the total registration at
one time. Drama should be scheduled for at least
two nights a week. As to music—we have one

(Continued on page 391)

RECREATION

Human Problems of Old Age

the aged up to very recent

times was confined to a
rocking chair, a subscription to the local news-
paper, and the purchase of a pair of knitting
needles and skeins of yarn. Stultifying motion
rather than social mobility was the aim, with the
movements confined to the area of the chair. The
rocker was moved onto the porch for the sum—
mer, and into the sitting rooms (a most apt desig-
nation) for the winter. Motion was also limited
to the deft hands, relics of a once creative and use-
ful existence; or the eyes, once the source of
curiosity and vision, and now circumscribed by the
width of a printer’s column. 'Mother or grand—
father, or great aunt were now retired to await
their inevitable psychological death, victims of
ennui and neglect.

Modern recreation discards this treatment of the
older person. If the ancient Greeks ciould shelter
on Mount Olympus a deity of old‘age, fit com-
panion for Zeus, certainly we mere mortals owe
the aged at least equal companionship. (Inci-
dentally, the deity was named Geras, from which
we have derived geriatrics and gerontology the
new sciences of the older person.) Among the
many things that recreation theoretically offers two
stand out ——activity and companionship. Neither
the sitting room nor the porch is the orbit of ex-
istence. We have found that our older people can
do most everything, most everywhere, with these
significant differences—the tempo of activity is
now slowed and reasonable; the quality of the
activity is more selective and more meaningful.
As for companionship, the older person must no
longer be isolated from family and friends, remain—
ing in an upstairs bedroom when company calls,
but he is to be encouraged to participate in group
life on a familiar as well as
a communal level. He is as
capable of creative group
expression as was his
younger counterpart.

There are other values in
recreation which are im-
plicit in activity and com-
panionship. The older per-
son is capable of new as

NO RGANIZED” RECREATION for

OCTOBER 1945

By GRAENUM BERGER
Bronx House, New York. N. Y.

Graenum Berger knows at first hand about
the needs of older peoplel for he has worked
closely with them at Bronx House and has
given "aid and comfort" to the more re-
cently established William Hodson Commu-
nity Center. His analysis of some of the
problems of the aged which appears on

these pages was made for delegates to

the National Conference of Social Work
meeting in New York City last May.

well as re-leaming. His intel-
lectual power can be intensified;
new talents will emerge if he is
only given the stimulation and encouragement.
There is usually less self-motivation for learning,
because he sees no earthly use for it in our society.
This does not mean simply acquiring hobbies to
while away the declining years, but it means con—
stant refreshers which are continuously related to
his own and his community’s life experience. We
have still not gotten over the myth that schooling
ends with adolescence.

Population experts predict that in the United
States older persons over sixty-five may reach as
many as twenty millions within three to four
decades. Thus, older people must make an unre-
mitting contribution to our civilization, or they
will become a social burden of exhausting, Gar-
gantuan proportions.

Through activity, learning, and social contacts,
the mental hygiene problems of old age may also
be correctible. Too frequently the emphasis on the
older person is confined to material and health
comforts (although I must confess that the low
standard of support of our public agencies belie
this). But little is done for the emotional side of
the older person. “Crabbed old age” was not a
phrase coined by poets, it is an experience known
to anyone who senses the feeling. tones of the un-
happy older person. Peevishness is not indigenous
to the blood stream or the brain development. It
is born of rejection, of withdrawal, of uselessness.
In an age which recognizes in addition to the body
and the intellect the emotional attribute of man,
recreation can play a weighty role in enriching the
quality of living. Through recreational and group
therapy, not only the run of the mill older persons,
but even many of those who have become distorted
personalities, have an oppor-
tunity to return to sound—
ness.

Increasing Concern for
the Elderly

That all this is not just
wishing, but reality, is tes-
tified to by the wide—spread
interest in recreation for

373

374 HUMAN PROBLEMS OF OLD AGE

the aged in San Francisco,
Cleveland, New Orleans,
and lately in New York
City, where a half million
people over sixty-five an—
swered the census taker’s
questions in 1940. Old age
homes are now becoming
alerted to recreation pro-
grams. Settlements and
community centers, long
geared almost exclusively
to youth programs (for
they are still flailing de—
linquency) have looked
upon the aged as a minor
or undifferentiated com-
ponent of their adult mem—
bership. From personal
experience I can tell you that when older folks
come to settlements they morevfrequently slept
through rather than enjoyed a performance,
because the program was not cog—wheeled to their
need or because they had no part in its planning.
They came to the agency just to sit (instead of
rock). They found a duplication of their home or
tenement house experience, from which they were
trying quite obviously to escape. Community cen—
ters are just beginning to realize that they must
work with all the people.

Movement.

 

*George Sontoyno.

The William Hodson Community Center

At the William Hodson Community Center in
the Bronx about 300 older people are involved in
a daily afternoon program, with a daily attendance
of ninety persons. They come rain or shine, win-
ter and summer. Many of them have substituted
the Center for a visit to the medical clinic (where
they frequently went as much for social intercourse
as for medical help).

What do they do? They play cards, checkers,
chess, dominoes. They knit, crochet, patch quilts,
make toys, repair furniture. They paint in tempera
or oils often for the first time in their life. The
foreign—born study English; others edit their own
mimeographed newspaper with a good quality of
writing, and they meet in a poetry circle presenting
from memory and selected readings, verse that
would be the envy of my old college professors in
literature. Some write original verse. They sing,
individually and collectively, play instruments, en—
joy concerts and dramatic performances. They
conduct monthly birthday parties; for most of

 

"Age will not recover it; place in the world
by attempting to meet the young on their own
ground. Let us select the ground where we
shall not expose our weaknesses. Let us enter
the events that fit our specifications. . . . When
the play is cast, let us choose the parts of
kings and councillors, abjuring the role of
romantic hero—Hamlet, perhapsI but Romeo
never. When the orchestra plays swing music.
let us leave the floor to jitterbugs without re-
gret or sense of inferiority—sitting at ease
among the spectators. And thenI when the
rhythm changes let us take our turn:

'Old age, on tip toe. lays her jeweled hand
Lightly in mine. Come tread a stately measure.
Most gracious partner. nobly poised and bland.’ "*

—Ralpb Barton Perry in Plea for an Age

them it is the first time in
many years that anyone
has cared, and they sit
through the ceremony in
embarrassed, tearful
silence. On major festivals
they present more elabor-
ate programs. They go to
museums and parks and
they visit other old age
groups.

When lay conferences on
various social problems are
held, their delegates attend
as observers. Jew, Pro-
testant,Catholic, native and
foreign-born, Negro and
white live in a harmonious
cross-sectioned community
of their own making. They have developed self-
government machinery, elect their own officers,
delegate responsibilities to their several commit-
tees, and as one reads reports over a year and a
half period, one discerns that they look less and
less to the professional worker to meet all of their
needs or to nurture their ideas. They no longer
expect the worker to intercede for them if they
need a larger food or clothing allowance, for as they
have developed inner security, they have the ac-
companying courage to make these requests on
their own.

Although originally the membership was com-
posed almost entirely of clients of the Department
of Welfare, today a goodly number are older peo-
ple who do not require public assistance but who
have the same basic recreational needs and want
the same kind of social recreational atmosphere.
Older people need something beyond a cheerless

one room apartment. They have learned that there
are other ways of articulation than the daily quar—
rel with an unsympathetic landlady. I have seen
shy and retiring people learn to work and learn to

talk. I have seen aggressive older people modify
their hostility as they found more acceptable ways
of relating to others. I have seen a physically
handicapped woman learn to employ her hitherto
useless arthritic hands. I have seen septuagenari—
ans cast aside by our society become leaders of
their own groups. conducting group programs
with dignity and intelligence. I have seen this

happen to a sufficient number of individuals at the
(Continued on page 386)

RECREATION

-_-_‘—.

WORLD AT PLAY

OUT OF A RECENT
series of conferences
sponsored by the
Mayor’s Committee on
Race Relations came this thought-provoking
“charter” for recreation organizations: “Private
and public recreational agencies are under the
obligation, inherent in a democratic society, to
conform to an American creed of fair play and
equal opportunity and treatment for all people.
Through communal activities of play, different
racial, religious and national groups come to
understand and appreciate the human values
which all men have in common. Recreational
activities provide a basic instrument for the crea-
tion and extension of a democratic pattern of liv—
ing.” If all agencies seriously adopted that charter
many more persons would be able to enjoy greater
freedom for fun.

Charter for the
Future

JUDGE LEO MURPHY
of the Juvenile De-
linquency Court, \Vi-
nona, Minn., recently said:

“While we have not as yet finished compiling
our statistical records of last year’s delinquency
group to compare with the previous year of 1942-
1943, I am certain that when the records are
finally complete there will be a marked decrease
in juvenile delinquency in this community.

“In my mind this situation is brought about
largely on account of the supervised recreation
facilities provided for by the City Recreation De—
partment for this community. If there is one
single solution to the problem of delinquency it is
intensive club and recreational work wherein there
is maintained between the child and supervisors a
close, intimate and daily contact.”

You Be the Judge

IN JULY recreation
facilities and activities
of five units ’Of the
Union County Park System were demonstrated in
a window display in one of Elizabeth, New Jer'-
sey’s department stores. Sketches and photo-
graphs were used to suggest to the citizens of the
community the facilities available to all the people
who had, perforce, to look to a vacation at home
in this transportation-short summer of 1945.

Publicity Note

OCTOBER 1945

FROM Chicago comes
'word that one of the
Offices of Civilian De-
fense there, is con~
ceming itself with affairs of peace under the
leadership of the Community Commander of a
local 0CD. The young people of the neighbor-
hood have been formed into a Drum and Bugle
Corps who have paraded on patriotic occasions and
have “strutted their stuff” on the football field of
Northwestern University.

So much interest was aroused by this group
that a dance and a concert band was organized
and now plays regularly for Saturday night danc-
ing at the Community Headquarters. Active and
table games provide a variation in activities on
the Saturday nights for those who are not danc-
ing. An Amateur Dramatic group which has
provided entertainment for the Red Cross volun-
teers of the community and a Sports Club which
is going all out in the building of model airplanes,
are other activities for young people sponsored by

the 0CD.

A Chicago 0CD Looks
to the Future

THE Bureau of Recre—
ation of Philadelphia’s
Department of Public
Welfare has been con—
ducting a rather special kind of leadership train-
ing course. Sixty members of the Bureau’s staff
were chosen to take the course. Their object is
to learn the special techniques necessary to work
with physically handicapped men and women. The
course looks toward a not far distant future when
the physically handicapped will have time, space,
equipment, and leadership freely available to
them. Under competent leadership they will be
able to participate in beneficial exercises, recrea—
tional activities and social functions at several
municipal recreation centers.

Training Course
for Leaders

FROM England comes
word of a revival of
interest in Open air
recreation. “Our pres-
ent efforts,” writes the General Secretary of the
National Playing Fields Association, “are being
devoted to trying to improve the organization of
our Branches throughout the country, and further

Future “Playing
Fields” for England

375

376 WORLD AT PLA Y

 

 

DIAMOND PITCHING SHOES

Many models of Diamond Ofiicial Pitching
Shoes offer fans a wide selection. Drop-

forged from high grade steel—will not chip
or break. Carefully balanced.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and

Official Horseshoe Courts

 DIAMOND CALK
:«...-.w HORSESHOE co.

NW
46|0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 

       
 

to trying to secure the return of many recreation
grounds which have been taken for cultivation of
Defence purposes in connection with the war. We
have also had to fight to protect playing fields
from being absorbed to provide sites for temporary
houses, the need for which has been so largely
caused by the bombing of our cities. The Asso-
ciation’s fear has been that once these so-called
temporary houses are erected on playing fields it
will be an extremely difficult matter to secure
their removal.”

Summer Barn Dance——-Ten thousand young
New Yorkers turned out to swing their part-
ners at a Summer Barn Dance sponsored
cooperatively by the magazine “Seventeen”
and the. New York Park Department at the
first barn dance ever held in Central Park
Mall. Ed Durlacher’s band led four thousand
youngsters in each dance set.

New Jersey Passes Enabling Act—After
several years of effort by park interests the
legislature of New Jersey on March 26 passed
the Parkway Enabling Act which will permit

the State Highway Department to acquire
land for, develop and maintain parkways, as
part of the state highway system.

Buffalo Plans for the Future—In February
and March the thoughts of Buffalo, New
York’s citizens were turned toward the future
of their city. The City Planning Association

.was well satisfied with the results of its cam-

paign to direct the attention of all the people
in the community toward a more livable and a
more beautiful city. All kinds of groups in the
city cooperated, but perhaps the most heart-
warming response came from 60,000 school
children who investigated the present situation
and canvassed future possibilities, then wrote
interesting and suggestive essays on “What Im—
provement My Neighborhood N‘eeds Most.”

To Make Better Fishermen—The Izaak Wal-
ton Club of Winona, Minnesota, has entered into
a scheme with the town’s Recreation Department
to make better fishermen of the small fry. The
Recreation Department is holding a fishing con-
test for the boys and girls of the community. The
Izaak Walton Club has helped to some extent
with the cost of the contest. The Club holds
monthly meetings and the members plan to invite
their young co-enthusiasts to one of those meet-
ings. The youngsters will be guests at a luncheon
and afterwards at “the movies.”

Art Adventure Tours—The Big Sister Or-
ganization of Scranton, Pennsylvania, has been
conducting an activity known as Art Adventure
Tours which it calls “an experiment in experience
education.” When eight girls signed up for a class
of drawing for which no teacher was available, it
was decided that the time could well be spent
visiting places of beauty and interest. A volunteer
worker called once each week with her car and
took the eight girls on a tour. They have visited
the Museum where they saw a \Valt Disney show;
the city greenhouses where they saw all kinds of
flowers grown and plants being produced to set
out in the park. They have also visited the His-
torical Society, a blacksmith shop, and a suite of
iooms at the city’s largest furniture store. A
teacher in one of the schools showed the girls a
world famous collection of dolls. One of the trips
they enjoyed was a tour through a beautiful home
furnished with antiques. Later the girls will go
to the city’s largest hotel where they will be taken

RECREATION

the "Completely New” SOFTBAU.

 

Here's 'I'he newI ruggedI all-purpose Soflball lhaf's sure *0 be
"Sl'andard Equipment" wherever 'lhe game is played. Today if
is being played in lhe sl'reel's of Tokyo. fhe mud of Germany
and l'he sand and ashes of lwo Jima. "Tomorrow" hundreds of
l'housands of l'hem will cover lhe playgrounds of America.

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

BUY WAR norms Mlgd by w. J. Vol! Rubber Corp THE-BEST'DEMERS
aseumnu ARE vow omens
- H500 E. 25m St. los Angelou. ll, Calul.

Chuqu 'runch -- 130 N' Work-0 9'”. — Zen. 6

 

OCTOBER 1945 377

378 WORLD AT PLAY

CHAMPIONS’ CHOICE!

MANUFABIURINB 00.

’T LOUIS ' M 553319!

 

through the kitchen and learn what goes on in a
hotel. They will visit a movie house, too, and will
be taken behind the scenes.

Double Duty Canteen—In Bay City, Michi-
gan the teen-age canteen “doubles in brass”
on Thursday nights when it becomes the scene
for an adult “Old Time Dancing” group.
Dancers come from all over the country; pay
thirty cents apiece to pay the caller and three
musicians. That the group is an enthusiastic
one is witnessed by one rainy night turnout
of 120.

A Center for Washington Children——Miss
Pearle R. Smith, a government employee who died
last July, bequeathed the bulk of her $13,000 estate
to the Federatibn of Churches for the establishment
of a recreation center for children in the northeast
section. Her will stated: “The center is. to be
used for the benefit of children wlfose parents are
employed and who would otherwise be on the
streets unprotected.”

Lions Clubs Look to Recreation——The Lions
clubs in many communities in different parts
of the United States and Canada are concern-
ing themselves to provide recreational activi—
ties for their fellow townsmen.

In Centerburg, Ohio, the club purchased
fourteen acres of land to be used for a park for
an athletic field. In Corona, California, the
Lions contributed more than three thousand
dollars to the city’s recreation program in
order to make possible the establishment of
the teen—age canteen. The young people re-
quested and received sponsorship ofihe can—
teen by the Lions. In Weston, Ontario, the
club is planning to provide a Community
Center to be located on the fifteen acre tract
by the Humber River. Plans call for building
an auditorium, gymnasium, club rooms, din—
ing hall, bowling alleys, swim tank, and an
artificial ice rink. Seeing such a plan through
will take some years, of course. Gallatin, Mis-
souri needed a children’s playground, so the
Lions'club put on a rummage sale which
netted them $400.00. With that sum they were
able to buy a vacant lot, 209 x 183 feet, close
to the center, of town. The only hitch was that
the lot was overgrown with brush and scrub
trees. The-club formed itself into three teams
which work in the evenings to clear the lot and
prepare it for the graders. In Davenport,
Iowa, the Lions club has taken as one of its
projects the job of providing good entertain-
ment for the blind people in their community.
They plan a year round club program to be
held from I :00 to 9:00 P. M. on Saturdays.

Provo Boat Club—The Recreation Depart-
ment assisted the Provo, Utah, Boat Club in open-
ing the Boat Harbor at Utah Lake and in con-
ducting their Memorial Day activities. In May the
dam between the harbor and lake was removed
by the Street Department opening a new recrea—
tion feature.

The motor boat races conducted on Memorial
Day by the Provo Boat Club were held in the har-
bor for the first time. Preceding the boat races,
children’s games and races were conducted in the
area between the harbor and the river. A bathing
beauty contest was also held. There were thirty-
two boats entered in the races; an estimated crowd
of 7,000 viewed them.

RECREATION

WORLD A T PLA Y '379

 

To the Best
Goes the Best

Whether with our service men
throughout the world or in our
great games at home, America’s
athletes are the cream of the
world. It is they who stimulate
us to design and manufacture
the “newest and best” sports
equipment that carries this em-
blem of leadership——

[Bilbon

‘ Wilson Sporting Goods Co... Chicago,
New York and other leading cities

Let’s all 6005! II): 'W’ar Memoria’s Tba! Live”
campaign to commemorate our war baron.

It.
I

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT K...

 

From Putney, Vermont Boys—A number of

community centers and recreation departments are r

sending to boys in service bulletins or small pub—
lications giving them home news. How much these
communications are appreciated is shown in let-
ters from two boys from Putney, Vermont, both
overseas.

One of the boys, somewhere in France, writes:
“Even after being away from Putney for such a
long time (and it seems like several years) I can
still remember every detail of the town and most
of the people, all of whom have some little niche
in my memory. I’d really give plenty to be walk-
ing down the dusty 01’ main street with my dog-—
nothing to do—and a 1‘whole sunlilled day to do
it in.

“And then again there’s life over here in France.
France can really be beautiful-wall the little hills
(and big hills—the kind that you walk up) cov-
ered with flowers and grass and budding trees,
little leaf-strewn gullys, tiny busy little villages——
happy, carefree, friendly people—spring every-

OCTOBER 1945

where. The oddest places can sometimes be won-
derful.”

From a Sergeant in the South Pacific: “I had
been'receiving the Putney Reporter pretty regu-
larly and it is just like a letter from home. . . . I
thought you would like to know what we do with
our spare time. We have an Enlisted Men’s Club
built from bamboo with a ping-pong table and
other games such as checkers. For outdoor sports,
we have volley ball, softball, and touch football.
Even with all that entertainment I am lonesome
for the people in Putney and the dances at the
Center.”

Funds for Recreation-—-The students of two
Negro schools in Greenwood, Mississippi, have
contributed more than $1,500 toward the proposed
recreational center and swimming pool for the
Negro population of the community. The cam-
paign to raise $15,000 for the project is under the
direction of the Greenwood Negro Civic League

of which Dr. G. H. Lane is president.

380 PVORLD AT PLA Y

SIMPLIFIED DRAW'ING, by Charles Carlsnn . . . . . . . .5150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Yanng. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKETCHFS, by Cbarlutte Ynung . . . . . . . . . 1.00
“'ATER COLOR PAINTING. by Charles Carlson. . . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCH ES,bbearlutte H.Ynnng 1.00
CARTOONING IS A FUNNY BUSINESS, by S. B. Flier 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING. by Chuck Thorndike . . . 1.00
DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION, by Arthur Zaldenlierg 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING. by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East Hill Street New York. N. Y.

 

The Shut-Ins of the Oranges and Maplewood
—From time to time notes have been published in
RECREATION about the recreation program for
shut-ins sponsored by the East Orange, New Jer-
sey, Board of Recreation Commissioners.

The program has now been in continuous opera-
tion for seventeen years. Initiated for the shut—
ins of East Orange, it now covers all the Oranges
and Maplewood, and operates under the name of
Recreation Council for Shut-Ins of the Oranges
and Maplewood. Frances H. Haire, who is Di-
rector of Recreation for East Orange, serves as
secretary of the Recreation Council.

A Gift for the Scouts—Boy Scouts of Alle-
gheny County, Pennsylvania, have received a gift
that can only be termed "magnificent." The W'ild-
wood Country Club in Hampton Township, 173
acres, complete with clubhouse, tennis courts,
swimming pool, an eighteen-hole golf course, has
been deeded to the Allegheny Scout Council by
J. W. Hubbard, a Pittsburgh industrialist. The
property, which represents an original investment
of $750,000, will be used as a camping and recre-
ational area and as a training center for Scout

leaders. The clubhouse will become an educational
building.

A Queen’s Life Is Boring—On November
I 3, 1944, the Dionne quintuplets, dressed in pink-
flowered dresses, sat on a sofa in their home at
Callander, Ontario, and told in French what they
think on several subjects. ,

They agreed on only one thing—none of them
has the slightest desire to be a queen. The ques—
tion was asked, Would you like to be a queen?
In chorus all: No!

Q.——-Why wouldn’t you like to be a queen?

ANNETTE—I wouldn’t want to be honored all the
time like a queen has to be.

EMILIE—A queen has to meet too many people.
CECILE—A queen has to sit down too much.

MARIE—A queen can’t have fun. She’s not free
enough.

YVONNE—1f I were a queen I wouldn’t be able to
do what I want to do.

Q.—\Vhat would you like to be when you grow up?

YVONNE—I think maybe I would like to be a
nun, but I am not so sure about that.

CECILE——Maybe I would like to be a musician. A
musician can make people happy.

MARIE—I’d like to look after children.

EMILIE—It’s a secret.

ANNETTE—I think I would like best to stay with
my parents. '

Q.——Why do you like your sisters?
ANNETTEuBecause we have a lot of fun together.
YVONNE——Because they set me good examples.
CECILE—Because they always give me help.
MARIE—Because they are good to me.

EMILIE—Because they play good games.
—-—Reprinted with permission by United Press

Role of Schools—Dr. Floyd Jordan, Consul-
tant on School Services, U. S. Office of Education.
speaking on the public school program, said:
“Schools have a very important role to play in
providing recreation for our citizens and particu—
larly for our youth. Schools must of necessity
recognize their responsibilties, particularly so in
small communities and rural areas where school
leadership and facilities are the major if not the
only resources for recreational opportunities.”

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY 381

School for Town Living—School-going adults
outnumber high school students two to one at
Story City, Iowa (population 1,500), where more
thanxzoo city and farm folk have a community
education program that works.

Chief aim of the program, which is held in the
public school building, is “Community coopera-
tion, here and now.” Community development,
homemaking, better farming, handicrafts, public
speaking, postwar planning and world affairs re-
ceive major attention. “\Norld affairs,” handled
forum fashion, carried the largest enrollment with
some speakers coming on from New York City.
Local leaders conducted the forums.

The community deve10pment class made a gen—
eral study of available facilities with suggestions
for the improvement of those regarded inadequate
for local needs. The homemakers group helped
the school realize the place of recreation in family
life and fostered activities to release wartime ten—
sion and provide enjoyment. Learning in music
included part and choral singing and appreciation
(with records) and study of theory. Choral singing
fills a definite need, for Story City is a church-
minded community with four active congregations
in town and several in the country.

The school began sixteen years ago under direc-
tion of the high school vocational department. As
it expanded, a community educational council was
appointed to govern it. Business and women’s
organizations support it. Tuition is a dollar.

Church Music in Philadelphia—The Phila-
delphia Evening Bulletin Folk Festival Association
was responsible for an unusual musical event. On
February 22nd many religious groups in the city
combined to give a program of music traditional
in their churches. The Religious Song Festival
was “inaugurated . . . as part of The Evening Bul-
letin community plan to bring about better under-
standing and closer relationship among our varied
racial and national groups through interchange of
traditional expressions.” The program included
selections from the age-old services of the Jewish,
Armenian, Russian, Moravian, and Lutheran
churches as well as hymns familiar to the Protes-
tants of the United States, and Negro spirituals.

Gift for a City Park—A cash gift has been
made to the city of Madison, Wiscénsin, by a

citizen ¢o be used for the planning and develop-
ment of a city park.

OCTOBER 1945

 

The Weaver and Wintark Lines of America’s Foremost
Athletic Equipment will soon be available for Recrea-
tional Sports. '

While now in full production on both lines, practically
our entire output is requisitioned by the armed forces.
However, we have no reconversion problems and just as
soon as the release comes, which we anticipate in the
early Spring, we will be ready to meet your full require-
ments promptly.

Coaches can look forward again to better teamwork—
greater economy with both Weaver and Wintark Products
back in play, knowing from past experience, their out-
standing qualities in performance and endurance.

we attrawnmrs‘av

1":-
o I"
a. 'o'
I .-°

1':

63.

I

Wdlmuu

E mum's roams: armmc rammm :

.zj

fx‘

  4216 W.OGDEN AVENUE ~ CHICAGO 23A“.  --. -

.;-1.=::":--.. e .w‘ . ‘1': '
- “It-3'. °-  
13"....) "'5‘... . u.”- ".' '° "

than“
:
'3

=- (if-r33”
. ,.

.39..

382 MAD ABOUT MUSIC

.3
h
\..
-,__b

NATIONAL

. ‘_
M...“-

sroms EQUIPMENT co.

.- a-w'.  - sows St: .A:

 

The Eleventh Annual Recreation Conference
-—The Eleventh Annual Recreation Congress, to
be held under the auspices of the Chicago Recrea-
tion Commission on November 27th at the Mor-
rison Hotel, will devote its program to a consider-
ation of the many urgent questions concerning
recreation and its meaning in the postwar world.

Fix It Yourself—The Community Center of
Fenton, Michigan, is teaching people how to take
care of that broken furniture that went to the re-
pair man—when there was a repair man. Two
series of classes, each lasting twelve weeks, in fur-
niture repair and refinishing have been set up.
Potluck dinners sometimes begin the classes and
snack refreshments usually end them. Many of
the rejuvenated pieces of furniture were exhibited
in May 1945, at Fenton’s Annual Hobby and An-

tique Show. The students in the class are learning.

as they go along, not only to glue the back on
Grandmother’s chair, but how to identify good
pieces of furniture; the properties and uses of
common woods; the pr0per setting for period
furniture. 7

Spotlight on Noise—The entire third floor of
the Aguilar Branch of the New York Public Li-
brary has been turned over to the young people of
Harlem for their use as a neighborhood recreation
spot. A member of the library staff and a young
worker from the United Neighborhood Houses of
New York will serve as hostesses at the club meet-
ing three nights weekly, but the plans for their ac—
tivities will come from the children themselves.
The children selected the books for the shelves:
popular novels, detective stories, westerns, war
books, joke and quiz books, and magazines on the
movies, radio, boxing, band leaders, and other un—
usual library fare. The librarian, Mrs. Helen
Benson Matthews, says that if the noise of the
lounge reaches down to the reading rooms below
she will believe it is a success.

Mad About Music

(Continued from page 342)

rehearse on their own time and their idea of an
evening of fun is to get cokes and sandwiches, in—
vade a home and play and eat until parents chase
them out.

If any group in Winfield wants a musical pro—
gram, the high school furnishes it free of charge.
It contributes orchestras to Sunday Schools and
singers to church .choirs and to VVomen’s Club
meetings. A hilarious “Dutch Band,” composed
of five brass pieces, does the clowning for conven-
tions, county fairs, and high jinks of various sorts.
There is also a snappy “Little Theater” orchestra
of twenty-six members, picked from the symphony,
which plays for school stage presentations. There
are baseball bands and football bands, but it’s the
basketball bands that go to town. A big band gives
a pre-game concert and plays the opening exer—
cises. A smaller “jeep band” wows ’em between
halves with intricate drills and snappy formations,
interspersed with acts by baton spinners and
dancers.

The spell that music has woven over Winfield
youth was dramatically shown during the'worst
flood in the city’s history in 1944. The turbulent
Walnut River crashed through the dike, split the

‘town in two, and raging waters engulfed the busi-

ness district, paralyzing light and water plants, and
bringing everything to a standstill.

Prof. Joseph E. Maddy, founder of the famous

National Music Camp at Interlochen, Michigan,

wa's‘ in southern Kansas and planned to visit Win—
RECREATION

MAD ABOUT MUSIC 383

BOYS CLUBS «-
CHURCHES 0

CITY RECREATION

all over the country are adapting this new way of bowling that
requires no pin-boys but is played and ecored the same as
regulation bowling. Our Service men and women in camps

and USO clubs went wild over the game!

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY H

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

o 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

Y.M.C.A's and Y.W.C.A's o
SERVICE CENTERS

 

SCHOOLS
o FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street, New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-
tional information and literature describing alley.

Name. .............................................................. ..

 

“fill/[000110‘000006’003000038000001/01200003”

field and conduct the high school orchestra in a
rehearsal. When word got around that he had
arrived in spite of the flood, students kept the en—
gagement and began to arrive by rowboat or wad-
ing, to the high school. When rehearsal started,
ninety-eight out of 100 players—the other two
were ill—were in their'seats. Symphony playing
continued for six hours.

They warmed up on Schubert’s “Unfinished
Symphony.” Then they called for Tschaikowsky’s
Fourth Symphony and, as Maddy told me later,
“They not only played the score of the most diffi-
cult of all symphonies (first movement), but they
observed every expression, every nuance, better
than most professional orchestras—and how they

OCTOBER 1945

loved it! In all my experience I have never heard
a high school orchestra play more artistically than
those flood-bound kids that night.”

It was long after midnight when those young-
sters stored their instruments, grabbed their hip
boots and set out' for home. Some had to use boats
to cross the swollen river to get home. They had
had a glorious adventure—but the significance of
what they had done was greater than the thrill.
They had fulfilled the tradition of more than half
a century_of good music in Winfield. Of that
Maddy said: “The joy of performing great music
and the discipline imposed by that music has trans—
formed the little city of Winfield into a living
symphony of culture.”

384 THE ALL-DAY NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOL

 

E HANDBOOK

LEATHER PROJECT KITS

Describes belts, wollets, purses, etc.
Splendid leother corefully pre—cut. All
parts in kit. No tools most items. Boon
to instructor. Low cost. Write now to

  

.l .

_ HORTONCRAFT

'_‘624 Capitol Avenue Hartford 6, Conn.

 

 

A Recreation Folk

Dance Camp

OGLEBAY PARK’s sixth annual Folk Dance and
Recreation Camp was held over the Labor

Day week end, 1944. At the Park in Wheeling,
West Virginia, ten states were represented, and
singing games, folk dances, folk crafts, music, and
outdoor cooking were among the subjects taught.
An interesting feature of the program was the
“‘workshop hour” when there was a general ex-
change of songs, games, dances, home and com-

munity recreation ideas.

An innovation this year was the serving of na-
tionality meals for dinner every day. The first was
.an American pioneer picnic with servers in pina—
fores and frontier garb. At another meal food was
prepared in the style of “down Mexico way.”
Tables were decorated in Mexican manner, and
.servers wore the national Mexican costume. The
final dinner was a Swedish Smorgasbord feast
held just before the final event of the camp, a
folk dance festival on the outdoor stage. The pro-
gram was an informal one, and all attending camp
took part. It consisted of folk dance exhibitions
and the singing of songs from other lands.

A special program was planned for each evening
of the camp. The first featured a campfire, fol-
lowed by a play party designed to give the mem—
bers of the group a chance to become acquainted
with one another. On Saturday night came an old—
fashioned square dance complete with caller and
orchestra. At the end of the general square dance
each section demonstrated the type of dancing from
its part of the country and competed in the annual
square dance contest.

On Sunday night came a folk dance party when
everyone taught his favorite folk dance and learned
that of his neighbor.

The All-Day Neighborhood
School

THE SECOND YEAR of the demonstration of the
All-Day Neighborhood School Program in
Public Schools 33 and 194 Manhattan has brought
us nearer the goal—an integrated program of
education, recreation, and neighborhood activities
for youths and adults. In this program, the Public
Education Association and the Board of Education
are demonstrating a design for an elementary
school whereby children and their parents are af-
forded opportunities to identify themselves with
the needs of their neighborhood.

Some of the significant features of the program
for the school year 1943—44 are:

l. The informalized and personalized education program
has been extended throughout both schools.

2.5e1f—discipline, a feeling of responsibility toward
the school and the community, and group solidarity
are more in evidence.

3. Better understanding has prevailed among all groups.

4. Expressional activities, such as art and dramatiza-
tions, are the normally expected outlets for the chil—
dren, as is also the use of and visitation to museums
and art galleries.

5. Children with behavior difi'iculties are identified very
early in their school careers and are given specialized
treatment by the social workers assigned to each of
the two schools.

6. Teachers and supervisors have grown in understand-
ing of children’s needs and in ability to make adjust—
ments; individualization of instruction is now a
reality.

7. The use of the specially-competent group teachers
and of volunteers for enrichment and for recreation
activities is an integral part of the program

8. Parents are very active in discussion groups and in
assuming responsibilities for some of the school

activities.

9. The social and character-building agencies are cog-
nizant of the all-day neighborhood school program
and are cooperating wholeheartedly with the teachers
in meeting the special needs of their children.

10. The role of the social, religious and recreation work-
ers, doctor and nurse. and teachers has been clari-
fied. Several committees, composed of representa-
tives of various groups, have been functioning very
effectively.

1]. There has been close cooperation by the parents with
the Play School Association and the Hudson Guild,
with the result that summer playgrounds have been
conducted each summer in both Public School 33 and
Public School 194 Manhattan.

RECREATION

A SEASHORE PLAYGROUND 385

12. The All-Day Neighborhood School Program in both -

schools has been used for teacher training demonstra-
tions by New York University, Adelphi College, the
State Department of Education, etc.

For the third and last year of the demonstra—
tion, the following phases of the program will be
emphasized:

1. Adult education and community activities will be set
up with the aid of a specially-competent adult edu-
cation leader in Public School 194 Manhattan.

2. Mental hygiene procedures for the younger children
are to be developed with the cooperation of the V0-
cational Adjustment Bureau and the National Com-
mittee on Mental Hygiene, in Public School 33 Man-
hattan.

3. There will Ibe an extension of intercultural education
in three fields: interchange of groups of pupils be-
tween Public School 33 and Public School 194; the
utilization of the experiences of representatives from
both conununities; and the Youthbuilders’ discussion

technique.

Visitors from every section of the country and
from the various outside school systems have
viewed the All-Day Neighborhood School Pro-
gram as one of the very effective means of pre-
venting delinquency and of developing effective
citizens. The appraisal of the effectiveness of the
program, now in process by the Bureau of Refer-
ence, Research and Statistics, and the College of
the City of New York, will indicate the steps to
be taken to modify this new design for an ele-
mentary school program so that it can be extended
to other schools in diflicult areas.

-—From All the Children, 45th Report of the Superin—
tendent of Schools, City of New York, 1943-44.

 

 

A Seashore Playground

IDWAY BETWEEN New York and Boston, on

the western boundary of New London, Con-

necticut, lies Ocean Beach Park, a 50—acre tract
dedicated to summer fun.

In 1938 the hurricane wrecked 200 small cot—
tages, leaving desolation in its wake. From the
wreckage ’has evolved a crescent-shaped beach of
fine sand 300 feet wide and half a mile long, with
a modern bathhouse accommodating 3,000 bathers
at one time. In addition to the bathhouse, there is
only one other building in the park. This is a
clubhouse known as “The Gain,” which is con-
nected with the bathhouse by a shady breezeway.
The Gam takes its name from New London’s his-
toric past as a whaling port, when the term was
used to signify the rendezvous of whaling ships at

OCTOBER 1945

NATIONAL
SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.

3’5 MAQQSUETTFo FCND to LAC. wrs

 

sea. On the first floor is a large self-service food
bar with open terrace, and on the second fioor a
blue plate and shore dinner restaurant. In the
building are also located the beach store, offices,
police and fire substation, and public rest rooms.

Dancing is enjoyed at the Gam on the board-
walk plaza approximately 400 feet square. Music
and announcements can be piped to almost any
part of Ocean Beach Park by the public address
system.

Such games as ping-pong, quoits, shufHeboard,
paddle tennis, archery, and handball are offered
adults, while for children there are playground
equipment and a fountain wading pool.

The picnic ground provides tables for family
parties under shade trees and outdoor hearths for
cooking. The Olympic pool, 65 by 165 feet, meets
all specifications for championship swimming
meets.

To help meet expenses, moderate fees are
charged for the use of facilities. There is a gen-
eral admission fee, but reasonable season and group
rates are featured.

The Board in charge of this $3,000,000 develop-
ment is headed by Dr. Katharine Blunt, formerly
president of Connecticut College.

386 HUMAN PROBLEMS OF OLD AGE

A Summer Time Play School
(Continued from page 357)

rollment fee large enough to cover the cost of milk
and crackers. However, once the fee had been an-
nounced, it was unwise to “up” it. The larger fee
would not be possible, of course, if the play school
were Operated for children of lowest income fami-
lies, but in this case the children were from
families of war workers who, presumably, could
have met the increased cost easily.

It had also been planned to have the children
swim once or twice a week at a near-by public
swimming pool but, at the last minute, hours for
classes in lifesaving collided with the play school
schedule, and so the swimming had to be aban-
doned. Another year, when there might be more
time beforehand to explore all possibilities, the lead-
ers think they should arrange play school hours so
that the children can have swimming as a part of
their fun.

On the credit side of the ledger——and it far over-
balances the debits—the over—all experience for
mothers who served as leaders was both pleasant
and important. It gave them an opportunity to see
what other children are like, and increased their
. understanding of their own sons and daughters. It
provided an outlet for talents and energy that gave
variety to their days. And it strengthened their
self-confidence.

For the children, it was fun to play with others
of their own age, to learn some new skills, to go
on the trips, to have “something to do,” and,
though more intangible, to know the pleasurable
sensation of “belonging.”

Human Problems of Old Age

(Continued from page 374)‘

Hodson Center to believe that it can be done every-
where for nearly all of our older people.

Bronx House

And at the Bronx House all this has been dupli—
cated. Some forty-five older people were subjected
to an even more rigorous challenge. “The Friendly
Folks,” as they call themselves, in addition to
being just a club of older people (and they were
months in getting organized into a club), was
placed in a setting where part of the experiment
was to relate them to the total settlement program.
They were encouraged to participate in the adult
council, composed of younger and more vigorous
adults. They saw these younger adults enjoying

activities similar to those at the Hodson Center.
It might have constituted a serious threat to them,
but it hasn’t. They function with younger adults;
they have overcome their poverty-stricken notions
about conducting fund-raising activities, and now
contribute to community projects like all other
house groups. They no longer fall asleep at a
program, for very likely one or more of their num-
ber has been asked to sing, recite, give a report,
or actually act as chairman of a function. I have
danced with them Russian Shers, and have taught
them to respond to the raucous calls of the Ameri-
can Square. '

The Hodson Center and the Bronx House
groups have been operating since the fall of 1943.
Both groups have come a long way. Although pro—
fessional workers who understand the needs and
above all the feelings of the older person must be
provided for leadership, it is imperative that the
older persons be encouraged to do as many things
for themselves as possible. They must be emanci-
pated from their own fears which our culture has
induced. Although both of these projects were
conducted largely for welfare clientele, the same
needs are keenly felt in all communities by older
people, so that even middle and upper class neigh—
borhoods should provide similar programs.

Looking to the Future

Little is known about the real potentialities of the
older person, what his activity interests really are,
to what extent he can participate, what kinds of
group experiences he needs, what his unique psy-
chological problems are and how they can be re—
solved. Social work agencies must‘ explore this
frontier.

This applies not only to the recreation center,
but to the old age home as well. The latter might
well set up similar recreational instrumentalities
in its own building to bring its clients closer to the
real community and to bring within its walls for
“day care” old folks whose homes are near the
agency. Case work agencies should be prepared
to refer older pe0ple to recreational resources as
readily as they do children. Adult education lead-
ers must learn that older people prefer informal
recreation activities to formal education fclasses.

The older person is here to stay. Medical sci-
ence has made longevity a reality. Usefulness and
creativity and companionship in decent surround-
ings must go along with the span of life. Too
frequently. we have said the future belongs only to

RECREATION

FINGER PAINTING SERVES THE SERVICEMANHAND OTHERS 387

youth. Sir James Frazer, the anthropologist,
author of the Golden Bough, describes a beautiful
corn-medicine festival ritualized by the North
American Indian. Our native forebears believed
that a certain Old Woman who never dies made
the crops grow again year after year. Youth
brought her their annual offerings. Here is cere-
moniously personilied the aged insuring the future
of youth in their own immortality.

The future belongs to youth and age together.
As Henry Cuyler Bunner has so simply put it:

“It was an old, old, old, old lady,
And a 'boy that was 'half past three;
And the way that they played together
Was beautiful to see.”

Finger Painting Serves the Service-

man—and Others
( Continued from page 347)

Accustom yourself to the feel of the paint. Keep
the paper wet, always—“not too wet, so the paint
runs, but creamy.

Now smooth out the paint to create a back-
ground. Use the soft side of your hand, between
wrist and little linger. Differentiation between
land and sky can be made by wiping more paint
from the sky. The clouds are also made with this
part of the hand, by touching the sky lightly and
quickly. You might also use the soft part of the
underside of your forearm to create a somewhat

similar effect.

You can now begin a design. I have used a
subject which is popular with servicemen—“that
symbolic home to which they long to return. You
can draw the little cabin in the hills with the lirst
linger. You might add a tree. This is done by
clenching the list. Dip the flat bottom of the list
into some water and additional color (which you
have placed for this purpose at the side of the
table). Place this part of your hand lirmly on the
paper where you want the roots of the tree, then
move it upward slowly. This will give you a typi-
cal tree trunk, Wave it a bit, as you move it, to
.suggest the bark and other irregularities.

As the picture grows, and as you experiment
with it, you may discover new effects for yourself.
The branches are drawn in with the index linger.
Leaves are added by pressing the flat part of the
thumb on the branches. Grasses at the foot of the
tree are done with the linger nails. ,The line lines
are made with the linger nail . . , the backrof the

OCTOBER 1945

"—1

 nguyw game]; .92.]: _
\' I: : r .

-——-.—-

 

nail of the index linger. The birds in the sky are
done with the knuckle of the index linger. The
fence in the foreground is drawn with the index
linger. The flowers are done with the side of the
thumb or the flat end of the index linger.

During the whole process of linger painting, it
is necessary to keep the surface of the paper wet.
If it dries too fast you can dip your linger in water
before applying it to the paper.

When you have linished the painting, lift it up
carefully at two corners and lay it flat on a sheet
of newspaper to dry, face up, of course.

After it is dry the picture may tend to curl up,
somewhat like a photographic print. The picture
should be made smooth by laying it face down on

an ironing board and applying a hot iron to the
back.

Finger paintings should be mounted on heavy
cardboard, and it is desirable to use a mat.

After you have experimented with black linger
paint, you will want to use colors. In this brief
outline I can say no more about color than to recb
ommend that you learn for yourself by trying, and
then trying again. - - -

388 A PROGRAM FOR THANKSGIVING

  

ARTS and CRAFTS

For All Occasions

     
 

For All Age Groups

 
 
      

111

Junior ARTS 82 CRAFTS

magazine

      
   

  

Paper cutting, weaving, modeling, proj-

ects from scrap materials, art experi-

 
 

ences, dioramas, wood working, making

 
 

masks, design, nature crafts and experi-

 
 

ments—gifts, things to wear, decorations

 
     
 

plus

  

Articles on music, social types, nature
study, citizenship, history, geography.

 
 

Plays, programs, songs.

 
   
 

All contained in every monthly issue.

     

1 year . . . $3.00
(10 consccutive issues)
2 years . . . $5.00

   

(20 consecutive issues)

 
 
   
  
  

 Send for our special circular,
0 9R. Contains additional informa-

tion, sample project page, and other helps.

 
     
 

    
 

Junior ARTS & ACTIVITIES

4616 North Clark Street
Chicago 40, Illinois

 
   

A Program for Thanksgiving
( Continued from page 352)

dence and formed themselves into a new nation
“conceived in liberty” their first president pro-
claimed the first day of national Thanksgiving.

NARRATOR I: “Now, therefore, I do recommend
and assign Thursday, the twenty-sixth day of
November next, to be devoted by the people of
these States to the service of that great and
glorious Being, who is the Beneficent Author
of all the good that was, that is, or that will be;
that we may then all unite in rendering unto
Him our sincere and humble thanks for His
kind care and protection of the people of this
country, previous to their becoming a nation; for
the signal and manifold mercies, and the favor-
able interpositions of His providence, in the
course and conclusion of the late war; for the
great degree of tranquillity, union, and plenty.
which we have since enjoyed; for the peaceable
and rational manner in which we have been
enabled to establish constitutions of government
for our safety and happiness, and particularly
the national one now lately instituted; for the
civil and religious liberty with which we are
blessed, and the means we have of acquiring and
diffusing useful knowledge; and, in general, for
all the great and various favors, which He has
been pleased to confer upon usf”

AUDIENCE: Battle Hymn of the Republic

TABLEAU VIII: Lincoln standing in an attitude of
contemplation with his proclamation in his hand.

NARRATOR 11: Nearly a hundred years later the
nation “dedicated to the proposition that all men
are created equal” was engaged upon a Civil
War. That was not an altogether happy Thanks-
giving. But even in those perilous times a great
president found things to be thankful for among
the people whom he led, and words to say for
those peOple what was in all their hearts.

NARRATOR I: “I do therefore invite my fellow-
citizens in every part of the United States, and
also those who are at sea and those who are
sojourning in foreign lands, to set apart and
observe the last Thursday of November next
as‘a day of thanksgiving and praise to our
beneficent Father who dwelleth in the heavens.
And I recommend to them that while offering
up the ascriptions justly due to Him for such
singular deliverances and blessings they do also,

RECREATION

NOW OFF THE PRESS! 389

with humble penitence for our national per-
verseness and disobedience, commend to His
tender care all those who have become widows,
orphans, mourners, or sufferers in the lamenta-
ble civil strife in which we are unavoidably en-
gaged, and fervently implore the interposition of
the Almighty hand to heal the wounds of the
nation and to restore it, as soon as may be
consistent with the divine purposes, to the full
enjoyment of peace, harmony, tranquillity, and
union."

NARRATOR I: In this year of 1945, when another
and more terrible war has come to its terrifying
close, those words of Abraham Lincoln must
find an echo in every heart. But in every heart
there is room for a great rejoicing, too, and the
will to carry out the proclamation of another
President for a day of thanksgiving.

NARRATOR II: (Read Thanksgiving Day Procla—
mation for 1945.)

NARRATOR I: In war and in peace, in time of
great trouble and in time of national rejoicing
we have set aside each year this day to remem-
ber the miracle of growth, to “sing unto the
Lord” our praises for the good earth and the
good fruits of the earth.

AUDIENCE: A Mighty Fortress is Our God.

Calling 'All Educators

MERICAN EDUCATION WEEK had its beginning
twenty—five years ago after the first World
War. It is especially fitting, therefore, that the
1945 celebration of education’s aims and achieve-
ments in these United States should look to the
problems that will face all of us in establishing a
secure and equitable manner of life in a peaceful
world.

The general t0pic for the week (November 11-
17, 1945) is Education to Promote the General
Welfare. The National Education Association
(1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington 6,
D. C.) has prepared various special materials for
local observances. These are available at nominal
cost. Notable among them is a series of dramatic
radio scripts and transcriptions for seven four and
a half minute broadcasts covering the daily topics
chosen for the week’s observance. In addition there
are four quarter hour programs stressing the role

OCTOBER 1945

Now Off the Press!

” HERE’S N0 PLACE like home”—lf home is an
interesting place to be!

Even with playgrounds and community centers,
parks and schools and teen—age clubs, there is still
a lot of time when the family stays home. Families
that do things together during those stay-at-home
periods have a lot of fun together. So, the National
Recreation Association has just published a book
of suggestions for family fun and ways to make
home a more interesting place for the family to
play. It is called Home Play and is priced at
seventy-five cents. The table of contents offers
such suggestive section headings as:

When the Family’s Alone
The Family Hangs Out the Welcome Sign

Places to Play

What About . . .? (such things as books and
rainy weather and pets and convalescents.)

of education in the maintenance of the peace, in
the development of tolerance, and in improving
the nation’s health.

Singing in the Rain
(Continued from page 359)

new works from American composers and they
are singing these works in concerts, over the air,
on records.

High standards, hard work, good leadership, the
quality of joy in what they are doing, good mu-
sicianship—each has its place in making the Col-
legiate Chorus something very special in the world
of music-for—the-love-of-it, but something special
that might be taking place in almost any city or
town throughout the country provided only that
the people who take part have earnestness and love
of their art and real desire for perfection.

How Does Your Library Grow?
(Continued from page 354)

than a taken-for-granted, always-around-to-be-
consnlted-Where-necessary commodity. When used
intelligently they can be a valuable aid to program
planning; when used with imagination and intui-
tion they can go far toward making an exciting
program out of a dull one, toward making a well-
integrated program out of a hit-and-miss one.

390 NEH’ YORK CONSIDERS THE NEEDS OF YOUTH

 

 

you Gan Use
THE IOURNAL of HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July ond August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

 

 

 

New York Considers the Needs
of Youth

( Continued from page 364)

factory answer, upon the achievement of full em—
ployment by our nation as a whole. It is, there—
fore, basic that agencies concerned with youth
welfare integrate planning for youth with over-all
planning in the employment field.

In order to meet the special problems of the
thousands of young people in New York City who
have taken jobs during the war period without
completing their education and who are largely
employed in unskilled jobs, the following pro-
grams and legislation are suggested:

An extension and expansion of apprenticeship
training, formulated and executed with the close
cooperation of labor, management and govern—
ment; an expansion and revision of Training
Within Industry to enable those young people
who continue to be employed to broaden their skills
and technical knowledge; a revamping of the pres-
ent Board of Education War Training Classes to
Peace Training Classes, operated late afternoons
and evenings for young adults.

In order to meet the' needs of youth graduating
from school, or coming of employment age in the
reconversion and postwar period, the following
additional programs are suggested:

More complete information on jobs and their
future as related to economic trends in New York
City, in order to provide more accurate training
and guidance for youth; closer correlation of edu-

cation with future employment possibilities; estab-
lishment of adequate vocational guidance services
in every school.

Youth Participation

Young people must be convinced that the com—
munity believes their participation in community
affairs is of vital importance. ‘

More opportunities must be created for young
people to take real responsibility in planning and
operating activities in organizations and in the
community.

Civic activities which satisfy the desires of youth
must be developed.

Religion

All churches and synagogues need to do a great
deal more than ever before to promote respect for
members of other groups. Youth looks to religion
for guidance in these matters.

Churches and synagogues might more frequently
utilize their facilities for the benefit of the whole
community; they might offer recreational oppor-
tunities for youth, and expand their presently ex-

' isting program of recreation, guidance, etc., in be-

half of all youth who might turn to them—Re-
printed from Better Times, May 25, 1945.

Sports Heal War Neuroses
(Continued from page 344)

have the following general symptoms: Deep sense
of general anxiety, tenseness, tendency to worry
excessively, fearfulness, body sweating, palpitation,
sometimes hysteria, depression and all kinds of
physical complaints, most of which are purely
imaginary.

“Play provides that therapeutic spark which
often enables the veteran to get started on the
way back to his normal'life,” Dr. Davis said. “It
is not difiicult to understand, therefore, why the
Veterans Administration places so much empha-
sis upon recreation which is carefully organized
and exploited as an adjunct to medical treatment.”

Though they may not be aware of it, recrea-
tional therapy—supplemented by treatments such
as electric shock, insulin sub-shock, fever and
psycho—therapy—will be one of the outstanding
hopes for the ultimate partial or total recovery of
the ex—servicemen occupying the nearly 50,000
beds in the thirty-three neuropsychiatric hospitals
maintained by the Veterans Administration.

RECREATION

' MAGAZINES AN!) PAMPHLETS 391

A Museum for Your Children

(Continued from page 363)

needy areas. This Foundation has been organized
because of the large number of requests from
communities all over the nation to provide some
sort of organization which might help them in de-
velOping a children’s museum in their community.
In its first year five new children’s museums were
created and the Foundation now stands ready to
offer help and assistance to any community in-
terested in starting a children’s museum. A
trained staff of professional children’s museum
organizers is ready to bring this new world to
the children of your community. It is the purpose
of the Foundation to aid the community during its
first year of establishing a children’s museum. At
the end of this year direction and control of the
new museum are given to community leaders. The
Foundation’s role thereafter is one of friendly
adviser. For further information write to John
Ripley Forbes, Director. Send as much informa-
tion about your town or city.and the local osponsor
as you can.

Paid Leadership

You will need a full-time, paid children's mu-
seum worker once your organization has been
established and you will need a building from
which to operate a program. You cannot get a
well-trained worker to carry on your program at
a poor salary. In this, as in most things, you get
what you pay for. The salary of a first-class
worker should not be less than $2,200 a year.
The success of the program will depend largely
upon the leader and, in the case of small projects
at least, this item will be your largest and most
important expenditure. V‘Vith the large project,
no matter how many volunteers you may have
helping, one or more trained workers must be
on the staff and their salary must not only be fair
but attractive if you want to get the best results.

.. Last Word

This program is one strong answer to the grave
problem of juvenile delinquency. It is the ideal
tribute for a memorial to our soldiers. It is truly
an exciting link between recreation and education

for young people.

You can have a children’s museum in your
community.

OCTOBER 1945

Magaiines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles oi 1
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Parks and Recreation, July-August 1945

Swimming Pools and Bathhouses (Part III), W. E.
Bartram

The Park Arboretum, Dr. Donald Wyman
Roads vs. No Roads, George W. Koronski

Log] Needs for Parks and Shade Trees; Charles W.
101:

The Maintenance Mart

Safety Education, September 1945

School Jurisdictional Student Accident Report,
Elizabeth Hayes

Safety Education Data Sheet—Eicycles

National Parent-Teacher, September 1945
As Our National Chairmen See It, Gertrude E. Flyte

The American City, August 1945

Seashore Recreational Plant Pays Well, Joseph
Lawren

Decorative Lighting in Parks, E. D. Tillson

Sports Age, August 1945
Sports Are Helping Them on the Road Back!

Aim—A Sports World Digest, August 1945 "
Industry Organizes Own Sports Conference, Jim
Schlemmer
Postwar Plans: An Outdoor Range—House
PAMPHLETS

Halloween Fun Book
Minneapolis Halloween Committee, 325 City Hall,
Minneapolis, Minnesota. Price 30 cents postpaid
Minimum Sanitary Requirements for Swimming Pools
and Bathing Places
Department of Public Health, Division of Sanitary
Engineering, State of Illinois
Community Planning for Youth

By George Tuttle. Reprinted from Canadian Wel—
fare, April 1945

 

 

Community Recreation Center Quiz
(Continued from page 372)

chorus of 110 voices, using one director and an
assistant director. In another group of sixty we
have one director, but for musical productions we
added a drama person and a dance person.

- The material on the foregoing pages is only part
of the Community Recreation Center Quiz. The
rest will be published in the November issue of
RECREATION. The complete article is also available
in pamphlet form at a cost of $.25 from the

National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

 

My Own Book—-—How I Grew

The 5W'omans Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York.
$2 .

N THIS BOOK the Womans Press- has provided the girl

with the means for recording all the happenings of her
life during high school or college days—her interests,
friends, their birthdays, likes and dislikes. In addition to
these entries, blanks are provided for favorite poems,
snapshots, clippings, favors, programs, and all the various
“miscellany” so dear to the heart of a girl.

Juvenile Guidance—~A Plan for Action

National Congress of Parents and Teachers, 600 South
Michigan Bouleit'ard, Chicago 5, Illinois.

NDER THIS TITLE the National Congress of Parents

and Teachers has issued a pamphlet containinga
brief digest of fundamental needs in meeting the prob—
terns of youth and offering a stimulus to 'further study
and work. In the booklet the problem is discussed and a
plan of action for local P.T.A.’s is offered. A section
of the report deals with the importance of recreation.

. Songs from Story Parade

Mgrgsaret Thorne, editor. The Furrow Press, Brooklyn.
.2 .

HERE IS A COLLECTION for children of songs a little out
of the ordinary. The words and music were made in
many places, by and about many kinds of people. The
editor has attempted, according to her note, to select
songs easy to sing and to remember because they “have a
real rhythmic unity between the words and their tune.”

Your Forests

By Martha Bensley Bruére. J. B. Lippincott, Philadel-
phia. $2.50.

HE MEANING OF FORESTs—and the lack of them—is set

forth in this thoroughly readable book. The author
goes with interesting detail into the origin of forests and
their use and misuse in North America. Her plea for an
intelligent approach to reforestation and cutting is all
the more forceful because it is based upon logic rather
than upon sentimentality.

Pistol and Revolver Shooting

By Walter F. Roper. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.49.

THE Two DECADES 1920-1940 saw a tremendous develop-
ment in handgun shooting. While he makes no pre-
tentions to having written the final history of this
activity, Mr. Roper has certainly covered a wide area in
the discussion of pistols and their care, ammunition and
accessories, stocks and sights as well as watches and the
rules that govern them. A chapter on learning to shoot is
designed primarily for the beginner who is working
without benefit of a coach. 7

392

New'Publi'cations in the Leisure Time Field

 

Home Is Fun

By$13féiriam E. Mason. Beckley-Cardy Company, Chicago.

THIS IS A STORY of a family of five who start out to

find a home for themselves, wind up by building it
and then proceed to live in it. It is written for children
in the first grade. It is designed to interest them in all
the variety of activities that take place in the home or
spring from it. '

New York City's Million Young People

Welfare Council of New York City. $1.00.
N JANUARY 13, 1945 the Civilian Defense Volunteer
Office and the Welfare Council of New York City

co-sponsored a meeting to consider some of the problems
of young people in New York City. This report covers
the proceedings of that Conference of Youth Needs and
is available from the Welfare Council Office at 44 East
23rd Street, New York.

Techniques
Script and Manuscript Lettering

Higgins Ink Company, Brooklyn. $.50 each.

HERE. ARE Two MANUALS designed to give instruction
and information on the various uses of ink in letter-

ing and art work. Each of the pamphlets is fully illus-

trated.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Associétion

OFFICE RS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HowARo BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAYUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W'. H. AOAus, New YOrk, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT \VOOOS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMuRR, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd; Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, W'ash.

MRS. NORMAN HARRowRR, Fitehburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASRELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. chxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H..
GUSTAVUS T. Ktan, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANOON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. II.
'STANLEY WnOOWARO, W'ashington, D. C.

