Beauty

BEAUTY ON THE PLAYGROUND and in the recreation center is always important.
Never has it been more important than in this year of war recovery.
Beauty helps to make strong the will to live—makes living seem more important.

Children and youngsters can help in making and keeping their recreation center
beautiful. We are all more attached to what is beautiful, to what we have helped to
make more beautiful.

Here is truly a wortthhile project for these spring days—to make the play—
grounds and recreation centers, each and every one, more beautiful for gracious living.

Surely We should make our play and recreation spaces as attractive as is con—
sistent with real and full use.

_ One is always deeply touched by the way in which generation after generation

has worked to make the great cathedrals of the i‘world beautiful, and yet most of
them are not linished—perhaps never will be flnished. Should we not have some-
thing of the same feeling toward our neighborhoods, when after all very much of our
thinking and our worship is done right in the home environment? '

In the same way can we not spend much more time on making our homes and
their surroundings attractive? Much of our leisure will be spent at home. There is
not time to get away long distances on the short winter evenings, and because so many
hours of our life are to be spent in the home neighborhood, is it not clear that we
should devote time to making the surroundings increasingly attractive and conducive
to gracious and delightful daily living?

- a: >z< >z<

It is important, since so many hours are spent in business and industry, to do
all we can to make our buildings in which the work of the world is carried on as
beautiful as possible, both inside and outside.

Of course no building is truly beautiful which is not adapted to its purpose.'
but is it not reasonable to give more and more time to working out simple ways of

making the surroundings in which we spend our working hours as attractive as
possible?

Many times the cost will not be greater. Frequently all that is needed is that
someone shall care and shall give the necessary time to thinking and planning.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

u.

MAY I946

57

May

 

Acme Pk:

RECREATION

HERE IS NOW AVAILABLE among returning
veterans one of the greatest potential sources
of leadership for camp counselors. A great
'1any veterans will return with new experiences
n leadership. and with varied skills which will en-
ble them to make a wholesome contribution to the
amping program. The great majority of service-
‘nen will return home in good health, well trained
_nd disciplined and far better equipped for group
iving than before they went into service.

As a result of their military experience they will
1ave acquired a deep sense of loyalty. They have
ad demonstrated to them repeatedly by word'and
ction the value of loyalty to the leader and t0 the
rganization or outfit to which they belong. This
uality can be readily transferred to the camp or
nstitution as an intangible but invaluable asset if
.amp directors will make the necessary effort to
'stablish the proper relationship. Many service-
men, also, will return from their units with a pride
)f cooperative achievement. Their presence in
;amps as counselors will serve to infuse others
with this new enthusiasm and spirit of cooperation
h group living.

   
    
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
 

A Source of New Activities

In selecting prospective counselors, camp di—

lualifications, seek out those veterans who have
visited new and interesting places, been in foreign
countries, in order to bring to their camping pro-
gram new activities, valuable experiences and a
wealth of first-hand knowledge of the folkways of
the four corners of the earth. There will also be
{1. large group of veterans who will bring with
Ithem a vast knowledge of technical skill in radio,
radar, map reading, celestial navigation, construc-
tion and the like, which they have acquired in
various service schools and in the field. It will be

possible for the camp director to convert or trans-'

fer this knowledge and skill to activities suitable
for the physical environment of camp and the age
level of the campers. Camps should be prepared
to meet the program requests on the part of veter-
ans for materials to construct model landing fields,
lmodel planes, boats, ships or tanks or miniature
plans for buildings or lsuper-highways.

'MAY 1946

rectors should, in addition to the basic leadership

The Veteran as Leader

By Lieutenant MONTE MELAMED, Tc, AUS

M any veterans, once stationed on some island
in the Pacific, or along some seashore, have be-
come skilled in shellcraft and jewelry making.
Camp programs shOuld, therefore, be geared to
help returning servicemen make the most of these
newly acquired skills and aptitudes.

The Army’s broad program of information, edu-

cation and orientation has versed and trained many

in the technique of organizing and leading discus-
sions and forums—another activity which can be
readily integrated into the summer camp program.

Sources of Leadership

This year there will be many veterans returning
to school to complete their education. The far—
sighted and generous provisions of the Federal
and 'State governments through the GI Bill of
Rights, which provides for the continued schooling
of our servicemen and women, makes the high
schools, technical and vocational schools, colleges
and universities one of the best potential sources
of camp leadership. Veterans should be solicited

through personal contacts or through newspaper

ads, brochures, professional publications, and in-
vited to participate in the summer camping pro—
grams of both private and institutional camps.
The United States Employment Service of the
War Manpower Commission still continues to be
an excellent medium through which to reach pro-
spective counselors. Camp directors will find any
of the following veteran agencies, too, helpful and
cooperative in filling jobs for which they may
wish to use returning servicemen: ‘
Regional Offices of the Veterans’ Administra-
tion
Veterans’ Personnel Divisions of the Selective
Service System
Veterans’ Service Centers
Federation Employment Services -
State Boards of Vocational Education

Utilizing the Army Qualification
Separatidn Record

One of the most helpful books available to camp
directors in selecting veterans as camp counselors
is the Army Qualification Separation Record, com-
monly known as Form 100. The primary objective

59

(30 THE VETERAN AS LEADER

of Form 100 is to provide the business world with
a record of current qualifications useful in con-
verting the soldier’s military and pre-military ex-
perience to civilian fields of work. It was also
designed to serve as an introduction to prospective
employers or to anyone with whom the veteran
may have occasion to deal. Form 100 showscivil-
ian and military education and training, civilian
and military job experience, and complete Army
job assignments with descriptions of the duties of
each assignment. For the man or woman who may
wish to make use of the service-learned skills,
conversions are made from military jobs to re—
lated civilian work and so recorded on Form 100.
Fortunately, all branches of the Army—the Army
Ground Forces, the Army Service Forces, and
Army Air Forces—use Form 100. The Navy uses
a similar form.

Three frequently used vol-
umes, designed and prepared
specifically to assist those con-
‘cerned with the problem of
placing returning veterans in
civilian jobs are: Special Aids
for Placing Arnzy Enlisted
Personnel in Civilian Jobs,
.Special Aids for Placing
Navy Personnel in Civilian
Jobs, and Dictionary of Oc-
cupational Titles.* Camp di—
rectors‘ and employers will do
well, before interviewing pro-
spective counselors to familiarize themselves
thoroughly with the terms and'code numbers of
the Dictionary of Occupational Titles as these oc—
cupational titles and codes are used by the Army,
Navy, USES, and many other agencies”. The e11-
tire experience of the serviceman and woman will
be shown on the records according to the Diction-
ary terminology, and it will therefore _be advan—
tageous and more efficient for the director or inter-
viewer to understand the standard occupational
terminology. On the basis of these records, sup-
plemented by personal interviews and letters of
reference, the camp director should be fairly able
to evaluate the veteran's potentialities and success
as a leader and camp counselor.

Unfortunately, no technical courses in the field
of social work or camping have been prepared by
the United States Armed Forces Institute for
members of the Armed Forces which could like-

 

"All three publications available at the Government Printing Office,
W’ashington, D. C.. at a slight cost.

"The successful employment of veterans
and their readjustment to civilian life is
the-°responsibility, at least in part, of
social agencies . . . '
Monte Melamed who is at present as-
signed to the Intelligence and Security
Division of the New York City Port of
Embarkation. His suggestions for using
returned veterans as camp counselors are
particularly apt just at this time. They are
also applicable to other tields of organ-
ized recreation, and are based on experi-
ences both with servicemen and with civil-
ian social agencies before World War ll.

wise guide camp directors in their evaluation and
selection of counselors.

There will be a great many men, officers and
enlisted men, who will be leaving the service as
first sergeants, master sergeants, lieutenants, cap—
tains and majors. Their potential leadership was
early recognized by the Army and the majority of
them demonstrated technical skill, initiative, re—
sourcefulness and great ability in military organi—
zation and administration. Why can’t camp direct-
ors tap this source of mature, purposeful and en-
riched. leadership and channel it into a more
humane endeavor, such as camping?

Some Special Difficulties

. Although the great majority of servicemen are
coming home better than ever after their experi-
ences, some men will have
special difficulties, either be-
cause they could not adjust
themselves to military life or
because they have been
wounded  mind or body
under fire. Camp‘ directors
will have to be prepared to
sift out those whose battle
experiences have shaken them
so profoundly that they find
it hard to slip back into every-
day life, let" alone a life of
working and living with chil-
. dren in. camps. However, in
fairness to those returning vetera115,'especially

' says Lieutenant

~those who were discharged under the Army’s old

Section VIII, it is important to bear in mind that
many cases of psychoneurosis, psychopathic per-
sonality, or even inconspicuous psychosis, could
ordinarily get along in civilian life without sus—
picion. In the Army, however, since there is no
compromise, a man is either fit for duty or he is
hospitalized. The vast majority of psychiatric cases
in the Army would not be admitted to a hospital
in civilian life. There is no justification whatso-
ever for stigmatizing a man discharged or rejected
for ps‘ychoneurosis simply because he could not
stand up under the rigors of military life.
Another delicate task of the camp director will
be that of placing the large group of high-ranking
young officers who have won responsible positions
in the Army, but have had little or no experience
in civilian industry, business or human relations t

fit them for immediate jobs of equal responsibilityrn
(Continued on page 107) I

r!»

RECREATION

 

—.._
1-
.-

Q,

   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
     
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

l ' ,- ULY, 1945. There’s an unusual bustle on play-
- l grounds acroSs the country. There’s an extra
.- excitement in the air, an extra song on the
§ 3. Small hands are specially busy at craft tables.
all heads are bent in concentration over copies
the play. Serious eyes watch the conductor’s
k as young voices try to give the best possible
erpretation to the song they are learning. Chil—
~ and leaders alike are interested and eager and
rt. The playgrounds are getting ready to honor
seph Lee.
I ere was no plan for the day common to all
grounds. Each group dipped into the pot of
own su’mmer pr0gram, its own facilities, its own
enuity for the elements to make up its celebra—
of the day. But one thing they all had in com-
1 n——good will and the need to present their best
' honor of the man whose tireless imagination
: undiscourageable energy had brought play-
‘_. unds into being.
ok'now, for a few moments, at the records of

r at was done in 1945 in memory of Joseph Lee,
‘ n of the work that he accomplished.

l

i

  

“We celebrated Joseph
Lee Day, Tuesday, July
31, with many events and
special activities. Over
100 children of all ages
participated in our ac-
n ities. . . . In addition to our activities we tried
emphasize the real contribution of Joseph Lee
the recreation movement. . . .” The program

d

l

 
    
     
   
 
 

port from
Leonard McConnell
uslregon Heights.
ichigan. Population
.047. One playground.

 

I
I
1

.“Citizens’ Recreation Association
Tuesday, July 313t is Celebrating

Joseph Lee Day

l
I Let’s Have Lots of Fun!
y SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES
l
l

1:00 P.M. Novelty Races

2:00 P.M. Girls vs. Boys in Volley Ball
2:30-5:00 P.M. Organized Games

5:30P.M. Girls Softball Game.”

l AY 1946

l.‘

 

To Honor Joseph Lee

This year Joseph Lee Day will come on Friday, July 26. From letters,
newspaper articles, reports, programs, advance publicity notices we have
gathered together some part of the story of what the playgrounds did in
1945 to honor Joseph Lee. This is, of course, not the whole story, but it does

give some idea of the variety of ways chosen last year for the celebration
of this special day in the playground season.

“Observed not Joseph
Lee Day but Joseph Lee
Week, giving Special at-
tention each day to
sketches of his life.
‘ Framed the photo (sent
by the Association many years ago) and used it
daily during story hours.”

Letter from

Mrs. Harold Dutton

Fairhaven. Mass.
Population I0.938.
Three playgrounds.

 

“The celebration (of
Joseph Lee Day) began"
on Thursday night, July
26th, with the Tri-City
Youth Fun .Night. On
the following day special
events were conducted on the twelve city play—
grounds. . . .

Letter from .
William K. Arno

Orange. Texas.
Population 7,472.
Four playgrounds.

“Seven organized youth councils from Beau—
mont, Port Arthur and Orange ,took part in the
first annual Fun Night. Nearly 500 teen-age boys
and girls enjoyed the festival which did much to
promote good fellowship among the young people
in this Sabine-Neches area. ‘

“Skits depicting activities and organization titles
were given by the groups. Informal games, danc-
ing and refreshments comprised the remainder of
the evening. I welcomed the youngsters and spoke
briefiy on Joseph Lee and the public recreation
movement.

“Two huge birthday cakes appropriately in-
scribed ‘Joseph Lee Day’ were served along with
the punch. The auditorium of the community cen-
ter and the lounge where the refreshments were
served were beautifully decorated in a patriotic
scheme. Several models and pictures of the Joseph

Lee Liberty Ship were on display at the registra-
tion tables along with the pictures of Mr. Lee sent

by N.R.A. that arrived just in time for the big
event. Everyone had a ‘swell’ time.”

61

62 TO HONOR JOSEPH LEE

“Proclamations calling
for observance by the
community for the week
of July 23 through 29 by
Governor Earl Warren
and Albany’s Mayor R. F. Cleary and civic spon-
sorship by the Albany Recreation Department
focus public attention on the objectives and con-
duct of recreation as a living tribute to Joseph Lee.

Newspaper story
Albany. California.

Population H.493.
Ten playgrounds.

 

“Special programs are being carried on at the
various playgrounds throughout the week and
Mayor Cleary has urged Albany citizens to visit
their neighborhood playground during the week.

“Albany’s special events will include: Monday,
Boys and Girls tumbling. Tuesday, Boys Softball
game. Wednesday, Boys Ping-pong tournament.
Thursday, Girls’ Softball game, Boys’ Softball
game, and Moving Pictures. Friday, Boys’ Soft-
ball game, picnic lunches, stories, and low organi-
zed games, Memorial and Terrace parks.”

 

“Joseph
Recreation Department.

Bulletin .Lee Day
Jacksonville. Florida. 1 S C O n -
Population “3.065. d u c t e d
Twenty-one playgrounds.

annually
' b y t h e

Jacksonville Department of Pub-
lic Recreation to honor the
memory of a builder of the play-
ground movement in America.
Joseph Lee believed in the boys
and girls of this country so
strongly that he gave a third of a
million dollars to foster the play
movement in this country and
twenty-seven years of service to
the National Recreation Associa-
tion.

Program

3:00 P.M. to 8:00 P.M. Hand-
cratt Exhibit—Exhibits divided

in five divisions: Crayonex
work, Woodcraft, Papercraft,
Needlework and Miscellaneous.
Competitors divided into two

classes, Midget and Junior-
Senior. First three in each class
of each. division will receive
ribbon awards. Each exhibit
must have name, address, play-

 

Photo by E. A. Baurdon

ground represented and class of exhibitor 
tached to each article. l

3 :00 P.M. Glider Contest—Hand launched, Cl
B. No ag'e limits in this event. Winner r
ceives model kit and ribbon award. Second at

.third places win ribbon awards. 1

3:00 P.M. Midget Boys' Paddle Tennis Tournam
—Singles. All matches one set. Winner at
runner-up receive ribbon awards. l

4 :00 P.M. Model Parachute Contest—Events f.
this contest will be VVorkmanship, Accuracy at
Time. Canopy of parachutes may not exceed 1
inches in diameter. First three in each eve
will receive ribbon awards. No age limits.

4:00 P.M. Midget Girls' Hopscotch Tournament-
First three receive ribbon awards.

4:00 P.M. Junior-Senior Girls' Dodge Ball Tour
ment—Six girls to a team. Matches played :
circle on a time basis. Winning and runner-t
teams receive ribbon awards.

Courtesy Parks and Recreation Dept, Houston, Terr

RECREATIO:

TO HONOR JOSEPH LEE 63

 

‘.-

‘ t d
-. . u. __ 
 1.7 q: I!“  a...“ u. at» .‘YA (1‘ ‘ 4‘ ~ -"

‘ MAY 1946

64 TO HONOR JOSEPH LEE

 

 

‘ l
Photo by E. A. Bourdon

“a: x, r
“ whomwww;

P‘hoto . A. Bourdon
RECREATION

4:00 P.M. Midget Boys'
Cork Ball Tournament—
Two boys to a team.
Three inning games. If
one team gets an ad—
vantage of five runs in
equal number of in-
nings in any match, ex—
cepting in semi-final or
final, match is. auto-
matically ended. Win-

l ning and runner-up

l teams received ribbons.

' 5:00 P.M. Midget Girls'

‘l Paddle Tennis Tourna-

‘ ment— Singles. All

1 matches one set. Win-

( ner and runner-up re-

" ceive ribbon awards.
5:00 P.M.' Midget Boys'

l Softball Field Events —— a , ,

Events will be: Out- Photo by E. A. Bourdon
field Throw for Dis-

. tance; Fungo Batting

' for 'Distance; Catcher’s Throw for Accuracy;

' and Circling Bases. Each contestant will be al-

lowed three trials except in circling bases. First
three in each event receive ribbon awards.

 

l
l
l 5 :00 P.M. Junior-Senior. Boys' Cork Ball Tourna-
l ment—Two boys to a team. Three-inning games.
i If one team gets advantage of five runs in equal
l. number of innings in any match, excepting semi—

final or final, match is automatically ended. \Nin-
l ning and runner-up teams receive ribbon awards.
l'
1
i

5 :00 P.M. Junior-Senior Girls' Bound Ball Tourna-
ment—Six girls to a team. All matches I 5 points.

' Matches played on volley ball court. Winning
and runner-up teams receive ribbon awards.

6:00 P.M. Junior-Senior Boys' Softball Field Events
‘| —Events on program: Outfield Throw for Dis-
.. tance; Fungo Batting for Distance; Catcher’s
Throw for Accuracy; and Circling Bases. Each
contestant will be allowed three trials except
in circling the bases. First“ three in each event
I. receive ribbon awards.

1 6:00 P.M. Junior-Senior Girls' Paddle Tennis Tour-
 nament—Singles. All matches one set. Winner
and runner-up receive ribbon awards.

9 6 :00 P.M'. Midget Girls' Dodge Ball Tournament—
Six girls to a team. Matches played in circle on
time basis. Winning and runner-up teams re-
ceive ribbon awards.

'MAY' 1946

n'  *g," ,.

 

TO HONOR JOSEPH LEE 65

 

\.

C ourtesy Parks and Recreation Dept, Houston, Texas

 

7:00 P.M. Junior-Senior Boys' Paddle Tennis Tour-
nament—Singles. All matches one set. \N inner
and runner-up receive ribbon awards.

8:00 P.M. Open Horseshoe Pitching Tournament—
No age limits. All matches II points until semi-
final and finals. Winner and runner-up receive
ribbon awards.

8:00 P.M. Dancing.

9:00 P.M. Motion Pictures—Baseball film entitled
“Inside Baseball.” Film furnished, compliments
of American Baseball League.

“Thousands of chil-
dren at Denver’s forty-
seven organized recrea-
tion centers marched in
' _parades through near-by

residential and business
districts as the opening event in a city-wide cele-
bration of Joseph Lee Day, July 27, 1945.

“Banners and signs, made earlier by the chil-
dren and carried in the parades, called attention to
the reason for the parades—a celebration in honor
of the man members of the National Recreation
Association recognize as the founder of organized
recreation in the United States.

(Continued on page 106)

Report from
Wm. H. Anderson.Jr.

Denver. Colorado.
Population 322.4:2.
Forty-seven playgrounds.

This Day ls Ours

A Program for Joseph Lee Day

USIC: (Sung by entire cast
behind the scenes) America'
the Beautiful—softly be-

hind narrator’s words.

NARRATOR: Today in all parts of North America
the spirit of childhood touches the heart of the
nations. '

Today our flag flies proudly proclaiming free-

dom to all. ' ,
What’s a flag? What’s the love of country for
which it stands? Maybe it begins with the love
of the land itself. It is the fog rolling through
the Golden Gate and among the towers of San
Francisco. It is the sun coming up behind the
White Mountains and over the Green, throwing
'a glory around Lake Champlain, above the
Adirondacks. It is the lazy Mississippi gather—

ing speed and mud past the levees of New"

'Orleans. It is the lazy noontide on Western
prairies. It is the Grand Canyon and a little
stream coming out of a New England ridge. It
is men at work, the small things remembered,
the little corners of land, the houses, the people
that each one loves.
The land and the people and the flag, a sym—

bol of freedom for all humanity.

MUSIC: America the Beautiful—come up strong
and finish.

MUSIC: Farmer in the Dell and London Bridge
played or sung softly under narrator’s lines.

NARRATOR: Today is ours. Today, in songs, in

games, in dances and the spoken word millions

are enjoying the rich heritage of our lands.
Today, we play, in appreciation of that priceless
possession. Today -—here —— we play to com-
memorate the life and work of Joseph Lee, great
American, father of
American playgrounds,
apostle of joy through.
play.

This Day is Ours.
This day is ours because
Joseph Lee made it so

MUSIC: Up and out.
NARRATOR: Today Peace

that the

66

By MARY LOWE SMITH
’ Frederick, Maryland

Miss Smith wrote the program on these
pages for the celebration of Joseph Lee Day
I945 on the playgrounds of Frederick. Mary-
land. lt is through Miss Smith's permission
program has been adapted for
general use and is published here.

The games. the songs and dances suggested
,as part of the program may be varied to suit
the general program of any playground.

spreads her quiet influence over
the continent of North America—
over Canada and Central America
and our own beloved United States.

(As the NARRATOR is speaking the attendants
to PEACE enter. They are six. Two are from
Canada, two are from Mexico, two are from the
United States. Their costumes suggest the
country of their origin. They dance. As the
dance ends PEACE enters.)

ATTENDANTS: (Kneeling for Choral Reading)

Hail Peace! .
We of North America welcome you
Stay ever with us '
Be our guide
Lead us on through life.

PEACE:

Here in this peaceful place

I heed your plea

For peace and joy, and while you play
I take my place with you today.

MUSIC: State Song—sung while attendants escort
PEACE to her platform. ,

MUSIC: Out

NARRATOR: The destiny of our nations marches
forward on the feet of youth. See, the boys and
girls of North America come to greet you, Fair
Peace. '

MUSIC: Children march down a center and two
side aisles. from rear of audience singing
Marching Along Together. As they reach the
“stage” they separate into three groups—Can-
ada, Central America, United States.

NARRATOR: Now, playmates, it is time for play.
(To New England group.) ' Where do you
come from?

GROUP SPOKESMAN: We come from stern New

' England’s shore to dance

for Peace, a dance of
old New England.

MUSIC: Rig-a-Jig-Jig.

(The group dances “Into
the Kitchen Take a

follow :)
Into the kitchen take a peek

RECREATION

Peek” for which the calls'\‘

.‘
I

‘

Back in the center swing your sweet.

Into the kitchen peek once more,

Back in the center swing all four.

I Right and left to the kitchen, take a peek

l Back in the center swing your sweet.
Into the kitchen peek once more

I ( Back in the center and swing all four.

Right and left to all places
Allemande left and [promenade all.

(Applause as'group dances back to place)
,u-RATORJ: (To Tumbling Team) Boys and girls
7. sturdy and strong, what part of the country
to you come from?
UP .SPOKESMAN: From the Middle Atlantic
ates—halfway between New England and the

l
E
I .
L lmy South.

! RATOR: What do you bring to Peace?
'5'

 

f

UP SPOKESMAN: A tumbling act to show our

1 rength.
I 510: (Tumbling music holding during the act

;' ter which the tumbling team goes back to its
[ lace.)

H _ I'RATOR: And who are these so gayly dressed? '

I, XICAN SPOKESMAN: We are your southern
.' eighbors from Mexico down below the Rio

)

‘_ .rande.
'l RATOR: A strange and beautiful country! Tell

:9 e do you have fun in your land?
r XICAN SPOKESMAN: Listen andwatch. VVe’ll
ow you our land, our music and our dances. I
. XICAN GROUP: (Choral Reading) Below the
inding Rio Grande, there lies the “Land of
: ontrasts” the great horn country—ancient and
ew and quaint. There in the ages past the
ztec and Mayan built a great maize civilization.
here they lived and played and developed the
rst American culture. Below the lazy Rio
rande, the Tierra Caliente lies, the beautiful
0t and steaming lands. There the bright foliage
f the orange, lemon and banana tree gleams in
e tropical sun. There fields may teem with
aving sugar cane, heavy—headed rice or snowy

- - tton.

Below the sluggish Rio Grande lies the valley
ateau—the Tierra Templada. It stretches out
ng and deep, and its fields, towns, cities are
usy—busy with work of many men. There
ves the Indian of Aztec origin, the Spanish
. randee and the Mestizo. There they plant the

aize, cultivate it and eat of its plentiful harvest.
here most of the work is done.
, Below the slow Rio Grande they travel on
'. 0t, by burro, by trains. There the trails do not
' n north and south, but rather up and down.

" Y 1945

l

THIS DAY IS OURS 67

Over the roads and trails on Market Day go
Indians and Mestizos laden with wares of pot-
tery, crafts, vegetables and toys, piled high on
their shoulders or packed tight on tiny burros.
At market they busy themselves with their bar-
gaining and selling while chatting cheerily with
their friends.

Below the slow Rio Grande, beauty and flow-
ers and music come first in the lives of the
people. They sing and dance at fiestas and ignore
the rest of the world.

(The group does a dance of Mexican origin,
and group returns to place.)

CANADIAN SPOKESMANi In my country, too, we
do many things that make life pleasant for the
people.

NARRATOR: What is your country?

CANADIAN SPOKESMAN: \Ve are your northern
neighbors—Canadians. .

‘NARRATOR: Will you, too, tell us about your

country ?

CANADIAN SPOKESMAN: We are of two nationali-
ties. Many of our ancestors came from France

and many from England. Our group represents
both English and French.

ENGLISH GROUP: We will play an old English
game called Red,Rover.
(Two lines are drawn about 60 feet apart.
The players stand behind one line, while the
“It” stands in the center and calls:

“Red Rover, Red Rover,
Come over, come over!”

The players run to the other side. Those caught
go into the center to help the “It.” The last
player caught will start the next game.)

AMERICAN Bovs AND GIRLS: We play that.

ENGLIer SPOKESMAN: You see we are not so
very different from you. Come Francois, what
have you to offer from the French of Canada.

FRENCH SPOKESMAN: In Quebec you may hear
the shouts of happy children all day long from
village greens and meadows. We like to Waltz
on the Green like this:

MUSIC : The Waltz

I Inside the window a waltz tune is playing
Gayly as flowers, the dancers are swaying.
Mirrors of crystal their steps are displaying,
Moving in time to the waltz that comes from France.

Outside the window the forest is sleeping
Out of the shadows the wild deer are peeping,

Up to the window a young fawn is creeping,
Lured by the tune of the waltz that comes from France.

( C ou‘tz'uued on page 101)

Recreation, Decatur and Radio

AST SUMMER, the- Public
Recreation Department
of Decatur, Illinois, con-

ducted a series of radio broadcasts. Station WSOY,
Decatur, sponsored the series as a public Service.

The Department felt the series was important
from three points of View.

Recreation activity unifies. America should
develop and maintain the finest recreation system
in the world if America is to be a unified nation.
The best recreation system should be tax-sup-
ported and democratic. Recreation leaders, rec-
reation guidance, and recreation facilities should
be easily available to all.

Recreation programs with emphasis on individ-
ual participation and personal responsibility are
needed for the moral reconditioning of the world.
Recreational education and practices must begin

at the bottom, with the very young, to attain such -

an objective.

Nearly everyone listens to the radio. Radio can
be used to deve10p the best recreation system. Rec-
reation leaders need to understand the medium of
radio. They should learn how to use the air waves
to publicize the potential power of recreation.

This article plans to present the background,

the planning, the function and the script features
of this series entitled Your Recreation Reporter,
which showed the activities of, by and from the
city playgrounds of Decatur. We hope that this
statement will help other communities interested
in radio publicity.

Background

Station WSOY had been carrying a program
called Your School Reporter of which a former
program director of the station wrote, “This fifteen
minute program, was an experiment in radio. Its
aim was to build up locally a program for young-
sters along lines other than a thriller. The ques-
tions, ‘Can the thriller be replaced by a good pro-
gram and still satisfy the child? Will he listen?’
have been answered. The enthusiasm for Your
School Reporter was surprising and we are look-
ing ahead eagerly to continuing it.”

When the city schools closed for summer vaca-
tion the time designated for Your School Reporter
was transferred to the Public Recreation Depart-

68

By M'ARY GRAHAM ANDREWS
Decatur. Illinois

‘broadcasts were given each Monday, Wednesd

   
  
    
 
  
    
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 

ment and the title of the pr .
gram was changed to Y o ‘
Recreation Reporter. The d 4 I
rector of public relations for the city schools h. I
collected the news, acted as script writer and edit  I
for the School broadcasts. She was secured .
carry on the same duties for the playground broa
casts.
Station WSOY carried this series of thirty-t ‘
quarter-hour programs as a program “in the pu
lic interest.” The station furnished a staff membe
who broadcast as the “recreation reporter.” T

l
I
l
I
t
0

and Friday at 4:45 P. M. When school opened i 1
the fall Your Recreation Reporter again becam
Your School Reporter. '

Scope

l
The question arose as to whether the progr

were to be promotional, educational or entertai .
ing. A decision was reached to use 'the new
format and to aim for balance. The broadcas l
were designed primarily for youngsters, althoug
every' type of audience was to be given considera
tion. A balance between events-of transient im
portance and those that are of permanent interes
was planned. Various publics, different ages wer
to be reached at different times but always for th
same reasons. Sound recreation philosophy, infor
mation about recreation, inspiration and entertain,
ment were to be presented in such a way as t
deve10p good human relationships. Of course, t ~

listening audience was limited to the area of th
local station.

Organization

The public relations director of the Recre'atio
Department was in charge of the broadcasts. Eac
supervisor was responsible for his field. Each play
ground director handled the publicity of his play
ground. Radio materials were sent or brought t
the Recreation Office. The public relations directo
considered all playgrounds as her “beat” and cov;
ered them whenever possible to gather news.

Promotion

N o matter how fine the script is, how well th
program cast, it is all wasted time unless agoo‘
listening audience has been promoted. A broadcas-

RECREATION

‘is only effective if it is heard.
This being true, the broad-
pasts were planned with this
‘ Question in mind, “How can
\we promote a listening audi—
ence ?” Naturally, the chil-
dren were the springboard
' both for news and to pro-
mote listening. Children
radio reporters, cartoon
sheets, contests, the naming of winning teams,
{awards all stimulated a listening audience. '

Promotional work was done at the annual rec-
sreation institute, at the weekly institute and.by
newspaper notices. Much was done by word of
'mouth and by the use of the telephone.

Script Features

Hats Off. One feature was “Hats Off” pre-
»' sented with musical fanfare. Each of these pro-
grams was planned to point out a community
t-\c011tribution. The tributes were timed with the
=lyevents. The people to be mentioned were notified.
iiThis kind of script proved an important promo-
:tional feature. It was different. Good will was built
iiot only by pointing out the services of the Recre-
'iation Department but by showing appreciation for
i ':|the work that individuals and groups were doing
for the Recreation Department. “Your-Recreation

rlDepart—ment-thanks—you,” was the Spirit.
I.

 

Here are two very different examples taken
:from the original “Hats Off” scripts.

“And now it’s time for ‘Hats Off.’ Today, we
lsalute the Lions Club for its very fine contribu-
ltion to our city recreation.

t

1. “At noon today at the Lions regular luncheon
held at the Decatur Club, Mr. Lester J. Grant,
«president of the Lions Club, presented a $2,500
“check to Mr. Horace B. Garman, president of the
TjPlayground and Recreation Board of Decatur.
IThis substantial amount was raised this year by
isuch activities as rummage sales, gum machines, a
magician’s show, and the Hippodrome Thrill
'Circus.”

' Each Monday the “Hats Off” salute went to the
rvinners of the city-wide inter-playground tourna-
ment. One such tribute went as follows:

i

I “ ‘Hats Off’ today goes to the winners of the
l rst city-wide tournament in hop-scotch. They are

oris Lienau of Torrence Playground, first place
. 'inner ; Helen Ross, {Garfield Playground, second
'place winner; and Lena Crawford, Hess Play-

 

l'lViAY 1946

More and more recreation departments are
using radio as a means of telling their
stories to the public. .There is. probably,
no better medium for public relations than
. radio provided it is used with care and in-
telligence and planning. Such use was made
of it last summer by the DecaturI IllinoisI
Recreation Department. The description on
these pages may serve as another pattern
for publicity in radio to other departments.

RECREATION, DECATUR AND RADIO '69

ground, took third place.
' These girls were all in the
junior division.
. “The midget group winners
are: first place, Marjorie
Tucker, Hess Playground.
Second place, Roselyn
Thomas, Garfield Play—
ground. Third place, Mari-
lyn Brink, Johns Hill Play—
ground. But we tip our hats again and graciously
to Roselyn Thomas, who is just twelve years old.
\Vhen she was informed that those who were sec-
ond only earned points for their playground and
no prize, Roselyn said, ‘Oh! Miss Morthland, that’s
all right! I don’t care whether I get a prize or not.
I play for the sake of the game.’ ”

Yesterday's Recreation in Decatur. Various pub-
lics of different ages were reached through the
radio feature, “Yesterday’s Recreation in Decatur.”
It was a part of each broadcast. The history of
recreation in Decatur had already been compiled.
The highlights were chosen from this record so
that a bird’s-eye view of the entire history could
be told in thirty broadcasts. This was a favorite
feature because the information could not be ob-
tained .in books or the daily newspaper. Besides,
it brought out the names of the many persons and
groups who had contributed to the development of
recreation in their own city.

Here are three brief examples. “And now for
‘Yesterday’s Recreation in Decatur.’ The double
century bicycle ride was the talk of the town in
1895 —.” (Then the event was described.)

“At the beginning of the 20th Century, early
recreation developments began. The teachers‘ be-

came interested and brought Dr. Luther H. Gulick,
a famous playground authority, who' was Secre-
tary of the National Playground Association, to
Decatur to talk on organized play. ‘Organized play
is a new phase of a new era,’ was a pertinent re-
mark made by Dr. Gulick, showing the play trend
of the time. A study of play was made by the city
school teachers. It was even recommended that a
small tract of land be set apart for the use of the

children for play l”

“The Story of Decatur Recreation in 1937. An

outstanding milestone in the history of Decatur

Public Recreation had been reached. The Play-

ground and Recreation Board was created to be-
come a part of the local government and to use tax

70‘ RECREATION, DECATUR AND RADIO

funds to administer public recreation. Highlights
of this year were:

“The Park Board, the Board of Education, the

City Council, the Works Progress Administration;

and the National Youth Administration spent
many thousands of dollars for leadership, main-
tenance, improvement, and additional facilities.

“Progressive game parties won Decatur na-
tional recognition.

“Dramatization of the Northwest Territory
drew a crowd of 9,000 in Nelson Park.

“Donkey softball games, archery, the Gypsy
Round Up, a Halloween Parade, the Christmas
Village—a highly diversified program began to
make national recreation history for Decatur.”

City Park Reservations. Another feature was the
announcing of the picnic and family reunion reser-
vations for the pavilions in the city parks. This
feature ended with the saying, “The family which

plays together, stays together.” Information on the
recreation department picnic services was also
given, with the invitation to use them.

Day Camp Radio Reporters. The Department of
Recreation conducts a day camp at Spitler Woods

State Park. It is sponsored by the Lions Club of i

the city. On the daily camp program there was a
“Rocking Chair Emma” period. This was a time
for relaxing. Among the quiet activities listed
was the writing of radio news. These youthful
day campers sent in news daily about their' ex—
periences. This kept camping experiences and
nature lore before the public three times each
week. Stories of seeing a snake climb a tree,
watching the anticsof a bluebird and four wild
canaries can make this kind of news fresh and
vivid. The very young people at this camp were
becoming recreation conscious. This is one of
their original reports: “Gee! It’s fun to camp.
Everyone should do it. I sure was proud when I
found five snails, some wild roses, and the May
apples. My toes just love to wade in the creek.”

It took just fifteen seconds to broadcast that
report. You can do four a minute.

Recreation Department News.. Each Monday an
overview of the week’s activities planned for the

city playgrounds was broadcast so parents might
know what their children were to do. This in-
cluded the inter-playground, the city-wide activi-
ties and the local playground activities such as

tournaments, day, camp schedule, handcraft as-
signments, folk dancing, storytelling.

What's News at the City Recreation Department?
Another correlated feature was “What’s News at
the City Recreation Department?” This included
softball and baseball schedules, tennis schedules, .
dates for band concerts, square dances, and the
titles and dates for the movies. Special events at
certain playgrounds were also included.

Feature Stories. There was, too, the succession
of the big events of the summer playground pro-
gram to be properly timed, built up and put over
at the right moment. These were labeled “Our
Feature Stories.” They included Flag Day, Com-
munity Sings, Fourth of July Celebrations, Story-
telling Contests, Come and See Nights, City-wide
Handcraft Exhibit, the Lantern Parade, the Float
Contest, the Rhythm Bands, Song Contest, the
Playground Rodeo, the'all:p1ayground gathering ;.
of the year and the city-wide final program. ° '

 

Special Occasion

The one occasion on which the usual news broad-
cast was changed was Joseph Lee Day. On this
broadcast, the winners in the city-wide story con-
test and Mr. R. Wayne Gill, superintendent of the
Public Recreation Department discussed the life
and philosophy of “Joseph Lee. The winners in the
city-wide song contest furnished the music.

Other News Sources

Pet shows, doll parades, hobbies, handcraft
work, Junior Red Cross work, bond and stamp
selling, social activities, out-of—town visitors, human
interest stories, junior leaders, camping reunions,
recreation bulletins, tennis news, ROger Horns-
by’s baseball school, adult recreation clubs, can-
celed games, industrial picnics, new equipment and
dedications, all came in for their share of good
news to broadcast.

Of course every broadcast contained a few sec- .
onds of humor. This feature was titled “A Story
with a Grin.” A part of each broadCast was radio -
news sent in or told by boys and girls participat- ,
ing in activities on the playgrounds.

So you see how the pool of_ information was
formed. News items were selected from the pool ‘
and reworded for the understanding of different
age levels—wthe tots, the midget group, the junior '
group, young men and women, adults- and old folk. I

Anything which makes a good news story can be ‘
written into good radio script. It is not always .
easy to write a news release for radio use. It must?
be written so the listener is entertained as well as l;

(Continued on page 105)

RECREATION

“Around the Clock in Song"

York, Pennsylvania, Celebrates Music Week

USIC WEEK in York, Pennsyl-
M vania', in 1945 was an over-
whelming success. That is now a matter of

local history.

The one reason behind this success—and it was
obvious from the beginning— was c00peration.
From the naming of the Music Week committee,
with its representatives from the schools, churches,
industrial plants, musical and civic organizations——
in fact, any group of individuals not merely with
a background of music but with an interest in music
-——the observance was a real community event.

The mayor and council cooperated. The schools
cooperated. The churches and factories, the news—
papers and radio stations all cooperated. In fact,
everyone c00perated.

Backgrounds

York is a city of 75,000 people. It houses over
350 industrial concerns, seventy—five of them the
largest of their kind in the world. The celebra—
. tion of National Music Week began there twenty
years ago, in a small way and under the banner of
a group of volunteer citizens. As they worked out
those tirst annual programs interest in the event
grew. Many of the industrial plants developed
choruses, orchestras and bands. In time the inter—
est became community-wide and the Department
of Recreation took over the presentation of the
Music Week program.

Today York has a symphony orchestra, many
bands and choruses, over eighty churches with tine
choirs. Music, in fact, plays a very large part in
the lives of the peOple of
York' and Music \Veek is one
expression of that impor-
tance in which everyone
, takes pride.

. Every detail of Music
,VVeek was widely publi-
cized, beginning with the
theme of the observance,
Music for Morale. Realizing
the importance of pi1blicity
in the success of the \Veek,

MAY 1946

By LEAH G. FUDEM

The first week in May has come to be
synonymous with Music Week in many com-
munities throughout the United States. It is
celebrated in many ways by many commu-
nity groups according to their several inter-
ests and facilities. In York. Pennsylvania.
Music Week is an occasion looked forward
to by the whole town as a highlight in the
year. Sponsored by the Recreation Depart-
ment, the festivities in honor of music are
the cooperative achievement of industrial
and community groups and of individuals.

the responsibility was placed in the

hands of a single person, the super-
intendent of the York Recreation Commission

which yearly sponsors the observance of Music
Week.

The Recreation Department began by visiting
the editors of both local newspapers, requesting
that an experienced person on the staff of each be
placed in charge of all Music Week publicity. As
a result more than fifty news stories were pub-
lished between April 16, when the first appeared

on the'theme, to May 12, the final day of Music
\Veek.

Procedure

Because of the enthusiasm aroused throughout
the city by the committee, the celebration actually
began on the first of May and continued to the
middle of the month. Letters were sent early to
every organization or group that might possibly
wish to take part and by the middle of April dates
from May I to May 12 were listed with the com—
mittee.

By this time the committee was divided into
subcommittees, with members listed under such
subheadings as pageant, church, school, down-
town, clubs and community participation, Kiwanis
concert, publicity, advertising, posters and tickets.

The pageant subcommittee was headed by the
conductor of the York Symphony Orchestra. and
included wwell—known music leaders of the city,
several music teachers, the schools’ music super-
visor and the president of the Matinee Musical
Club. Other subcommittees
were as well selected from
other leaders.

The second biggest event
of the Week was the Ki-
wanis Boys’ Band concert,
which was presented Tues—
day with a guest conductor
and a soprano soloist. Other
outstanding events were
church choir concerts, hymn

(Continued on page 103)
71

What They Say .About Recreation

leisure, I would do it in three words———skill,
creation, beauty———and I would call the whole
house the House of Joy.”-———L. P. Jacks.

IIIF I HADMTQ WRITE a motto over the portals of

“The significance of our free-time activities is
that almost inevitably they place us in a sharing
mood. . . . And as we learn to be companion, we
tend to grow the habit of wishing others the‘hap-
piness we ourselves enjoy.”——H. .4. Overstrecf.

“Those who have the curiosity to observe the
conduct of great men in their private actions have
found that they are distinguished as well in their
recreations as in their business.” —— Jacques
Osanam, 1708.

“Those who ride a hobby will 'never cease grow-
ing, for they will not only become interesting per-
sons themselves, but the world in which they live
will always be one eternal surprise." —- Z elalz
H einbaugh.

"Hobbies of one kind or another seem to bear a
close relationship to good personal adjustment
under normal life conditions. . . . The person with
a hobby stands a good chance of having fun as he
goes along, and some kind of fun is essential to
mental health.”-——Bess Cunning/mm.

“It is my belief that baseball is loved by an
entire nation because it embodies that priceless
spirit of equality that is the very backbone of
America itself.”—-—K€nesa’zv 1U. Landis. .

'“Education is not concerned primarily with in-
tellectual luxuries, but with elements which make

the individual a valuable member of society.”———
[Villiam 1U ather Lett'is.

"Sportsmanship is not a formula. It is more
than a code. . . . To your true sportsman victory

is important but less important than playing the
game.”-—Owen D. Young.

,, .‘ . . . . .
Lelsuie . . . ls unhurried, pleasurable livmg
among one’s native enthusiasms.”-———Edn-zan.

72

M. D.

“We still have within us ,the spark of adventure
that leads many of us to seek the wilder places, a
wholesome yearning for beauty, the spirit of ‘
doing.”———Olaus J. M urie in National Parks.

“Everyone must be a champion in something.-
Each person must have a personal skill through
which he can secure deference from his fellowmen.

Arts and hobbies are indispensable in modern‘
life.’-’—-Dr. T. V. Smith.

“Next to the possession of a'birth certificate,
the most essential asset to happiness and health
is some kind of a hobby.”——T/zer0n IV. Kilmer,

c‘

“\Ve must guard against over-organization. It
is possible so to organize people’s leisure that they
never have any time to themselves to be really
leisurely, ‘to stand and stare.’ ”-—A. Barrah‘ Brown.

“Leisure that becomes idleness is an unabridged
curse. Leisure organized for recreation, for the .
enriching of body, mind and soul is a cure.. Here I
lies the challenge, a major challenge to church, to
school, to business and to government—to our'
whole social order.”-——Dam’el A. Poling.

“What 'is it that men are seeking which makes
this word ‘leisure’ a word to conjure. with? They
are seeking a new chance to work outside the in-
dustrial and financial machinery of the present.
They want to work not Only for a living but for
life and for personal happiness.”-———Marj0ric Bar'—
stow Grcenbie.

“Recreation as a social force is a great freedom
with a minimum of restraint, a freedom under
discipline, the-necessary discipline of an orderly

society, largely self-imposed.”-—-G. OH Romney
in Off the Job Living.

“Perhaps the greatest values that come from the
playground are the social and moral ones: social
adaptation, open—mindedness to the viewpoints ofr
others, ability to win without boasting, to lose\*‘
without rancor, to put team play above triumph,“
cooperation above selfishness.”—Eugene R. Smith.

RECREATION

0 YOU HAVE no money,
{I  no facilities in y0ur com-
i munity, no trained lead-
. gership? Have you a real need, a few willing hands
Tito work, and heads that can*stand hard knocks,
.iplus a vision? Smithfield, Rhode Island, once
faced the first question and answered it with the
{second one.

In June of 1943 the chairman of the School
}Committee picked up a Providence paper one eve-
.ning and read, under local news, that the last

vailable ball field had been closed to the young-
sters of Greenville. There were many acres 0f un-
used land, but no place for the youngsters to pitch
ball! He decided to do something about it.

Approaching the Town Council, he was dele-
l’gated by them to call a meeting of representative
'citizens‘to talk the matter over. Letters were sent
' to each organization in town——churches, P.T.A.’s,

 

. mills—who in turn sent interested members to the ‘

i.0pening meeting. These facts confronted them.
There were ponds, whose adjacent land was care-
fully posted by owners; schoolyards, but no equip-
.ment, no public fields, no transportation between
{the‘four villages of this town of 4,000 population.
.th committee was appointed to_ ask permission of
l_owners of beach [property in each section for the
.' se of their property so that the boys and girls
| night Swim. The Town Council authorized the
‘ iighway department todump sand and cut brush
' n such property where use was granted. One
mill offered its own beach and baseball field for
public use. '

i Swimming

\Yhen the group next met it was organized as a
,-'committee. The town’s two members of the State
(Legislature made an appointment for a subcom-
Linittee to see the Governor of the State, at which

time he allocated money from his special contin-
ency fund to provide lifeguards for the swimming
reas, not only in Smithfield but throughout the
tate when towns would make similar requests.
l‘his practice has been discontinued because funds
re now appropriated through the State Legis-

- ature and each town is liable for a percentage of
he salaries paid to such lifeguards.

In one area there was some difliculty in obtain-

AY 1946

By I... GLADYS SIMONINI
and ELISABETH CHRISTOPHER

 Nothing Ventured—Nothing Gained

ing use of property. Finally a
citizen donated the use of his
land along the lake but there
wasn’t any beach and it was dangerous. The town
highway department went to work, brought sand

. for fill and sand for the beach, put the bulldozers

and trucks to work. \Vhen they had, done all they
could, until the low water period when the dam
was opened in the fall would permit further work,
the committee knew it had a place for youngsters
in the Greenville area to swim but not a very safe
one. The President of the P.T.A. in that village
held a Red Cross certificate and had had several
years in life guard work. She was appointed life-
guard for that beach. The volunteer fire company
in the village made safety lines and .put them out
at all the swimming areas. The State lent life
rings and rowboats. The committee bought first
aid kits with some of the nine hundred dollars
which had been donated by the mill, its union,
political parties and other interested citizens. \Vater
tests were made and one pond was closed because
the bacterial content made it unsafe for swimming.
The source of this pollution, caused by neglected
disposal systems of some twenty taxpayers, later
became a bone of contention-#the stone wall on
which heads were bruised and some support lost,
for the cause of recreation.

I Play Area '

The P.T.A. in Greenville started a play group in
the president’s yard one day a week, with mothers
taking turns as supervisors. At this point the
school department took over and set up a play-
ground plan for three areas where schools were in
use during the year and paid a schoolteacher ten
dollars a week to supervise each of them. The mill
and the highway department made and filled sand-
boxes and some handcraft material was purchased.
The school basements were used in the heat of the
day and the school department provided janitor
service. A Field Day was held with contests of
every nature for all ages. There were a doll car-
riage parade and “Best Baby” contest. Play-
grounds and swimming areas were closed on Labor
Day. Then the committee went to work. \V'hy
should safe play areas constitute the extent of our

activity ?

73

74 NOTHING VENTURED~NOTHING GAINED

Enlarging the Horizon

That winter the group incorporated. It is known
as the Smithfield Recreation Association whose
purposereads, “The object of this Association shall
be to provide for the children of Smithfield safe
and guided recreational facilities so that through
the building of strong, clean bodies and a sense
of fair c00perative group play a stronger, better
citizenry will be the resultant product; and to
pledge and dedicate this Association to that task.”
It joined the Providence Community Fund, Inc.,
had an Enabling Act passed in the State Legis-
lature which would permit the town to apprOpri—
ate up to $2,000 for the Association’s work.

Meanwhile committees were working. Some
sections had natural skating areas. Ice was tested
and posted. In Esmond the current of the river

When a small community girds up its loins to-
insure recreation for itself and its young peo-
ple things begin to happen with speed. The
achievement of a recreation program canI
come about in many ways any one of which
will malce an interesting story. One such

story comes to the pages of RECREATION,

by way of Smithi‘ieldI Rhode Island.

l

ministration is practically out Of the question. Rec-
reation ?' “\Vhen we were kids, we didn’t need
anyone to" look out for us when we played ball or
went swimming,” was the hue and cry because it
might mean a few cents per capita, added to the
tax rate. However, after much discussion $1,500
was appropriated for the Association, $500 to buy
the field in Greenville, to be known as Burgess

l
5

Field, and $500 to start work on land behind the y
Town Hall, which would eventually provide a field l

for Georgiaville. Seventy-five taxpayers at town‘

was too strong to keep it from freezing over safely,
so a swampy area was flooded two inches at a time

on very cold nights through the cooperation of the
water company in that village, the fire company,
and the mill. Result, a skating rink, where a newly
formed hockey league played competitive games
between the villages, and a cup was awarded the
winning team. The weather since that first winter
has not been suitable to hold the hockey games,
but if we ever have good skating weather again the
other villages will jump at the chance to get that
cup!

A community night, held in the Town ,Hall audi-
torium, provided an opportunity for pe0ple to see
and hear themselves in the amateur movies which
had been taken at the beaches, playground and
field day during the summer.

After one good snow storm that winter, coast-
ing places were posted in the closely populated
districts and land was inspected for a possible ski
trail.

Ten acres of land was promised in the Green—
ville area for $500—much less than its value—
through the work and interest of a clergyman who
was active in the Association. _Some day. this
would make a fine recreation spot, although it
would take much work and money to make it
' suitable for use. .

Two baseball leagues, junior and senior, were
started in the town that spring—umpire service
gratis. All games had to be played on the mill’s
field and free transportation—in the days of gaso-
line rationing—had to be worked out for each
game. i I

Then came Town financial meeting, where any
requests beyond the bare necessity of town ad-

meeting was nearly a record. Needless to say it
was the work'of the people interested in recreation
that got them out and put it "over. Much energy
was spent, shortly after the meeting, in raising
$5 50 by public subscription in Greenville to put a
bulldozer and scraper on Burgess Field. Now we
have a baseball diamond, a cricket green, and two
tennis courts which will open this spring.

Who Did It?

That was the first year of the recreation move—
ment in Smithfield. We had no help from any
trained personnel. We didn’t know where to get
it and couldn’t have paid for it if we did know'.
Every phase of activity was on a voluntary basis.
\Ve eventually found out about the National Rec-
reation Association because the vice-president ac—
cidentally heard a radio broadcast one Saturday
afternoon.

During the war, paper shortages cut down on
Space which could be obtained in the newspapers.
We have no local newspaper, but the reporter cov-
ering our section for a Providence paper, gave us
his hearty cooperation by the.use of his column
whenever we had need of it. His efforts played no
small part in keeping our program before the
public eye.

In the summer of 1944, through a grant of
$1, 500 from the Community Chest, in addition to
town funds, we were able to hire an athletic di—

rector for a nine week period, to supervise activiSCC
o 0 F11
ties. Tenms, baseball, softball and other types of"

(Continued on page 100)
RECREATION

l
l

l

l

1
$

 

The Community Job Master

community cannot afford to pay for many of
the social services it needs. Except where there
is a great deal of voluntary, unpaid neighborly
service of many kinds a real community scarcely

IT IS NOT ALTOGETIIER unfortunate that the small

'

exists.

There might be a considerable increase in the
.quality of community life if those who would like
to be useful should know how and when they
would be needed, and if it should become custom-
ary for each member of the community to be avail-
able for some agreed-upon amount and kind of
work. To bring this about an English service or-
ganization appoints a “job master.” The business
of the job master is to know what work needs to
be done and what persons or groups of persons are
available, and to bring the person and the work
together.

Would not a community job master be an addi-
tion to a small community, especially where there
is a community council? The process could be

somewhat as follows.

How It Might Work

There should be a period of publicity to acquaint
the community with the idea that whereas a few
persons have been carrying most of the social load,
it would make a better community if everyone
shared in the necessary community work, and
agreed to give a certain amount of time, varying
from two or three hours a month to five or more
hours a week, as they might be willing and able.
Next a census should be taken, preferably by per-
sons who can explain the purpose of the plan and
who would probably have friendly and respectful
attention. The aim of the census would be to get
each member of the community, child or adult, to
indicate the kind of service he or she would render,
and how much time could be given.

An inventory should be made and kept up to
date of community work needing to be done. This
work would vary in different communities. Where
old-fashioned neighboring is in practice it would
include taking care of children during the illness
or absence of the mother, looking after ill or elderly
peeple, preparing meeting places for meetings,
cleaning, painting, and repairing publiC—buildings,
and doing community chores.

Where there is a program of collecting and dis-

MAY 1945

a

tributing or selling used clothing some persons
might undertake laundering and mending it.

Where there is no community library someone,
perhaps a merchant, might act as librarian for cir-
culating books and magazines. Someone else might
undertake to keep a community calendar up to
date for the local paper. Another might be an em-
ployment clearing house for local hired help. Some
towns have organized periodic community clean-
up days for a general clean—up of the community,
with the business places closed, and everyone
taking part. Planning for such an occasion should
be some person’s business.

Continuing Jobs

There. are many continuing jobs in any com-
munity which one or a few persons could work at
year atter year. There is the matter of vocational
guidance for high school pupils. Every one of them
should have one or more experienced friends in
the community to whom he or she could talk about
vocational choices, aptitudes, and prospects. Such
an adviser would only gradually acquire compe-
tence. It would be necessary to know vocational
possibilities in and out of the community and vo-
cational literature. In a moderate-siz’ed commu-
nity one person might be adviser in the commer-
cial held, another in the mechanical field, another
in agriculture.

As young peOple or ex-servicemen desire to go
into business there should be individuals or com-
mittees to appraise their situations and to help
them hnd financial resources where that is justified.

The. job master, either man or committee, by
bringing together the need and the person to meet
the'need, might greatly increase the value of com-
munity services. In the course of time he might
simplify the organization and committee structure

of the community.

Emphasis on Informality

The community job master need not be formally
chosen. \Ve knew of one small community in
which a middle—aged woman, Mrs. K, who had
some leisure time, undertook quietly and without
any formality to act as the community job master.
She made it her service to the community to keep
in touch with the current community needs. For

( C ontinucd on page 111)

7'5

The Rec — A Year Old Child of Promise

By JESSIE H. HAAG and“ DAVID J. CARRIGAN

Lansdale. Pennsylvania

ing juvenile delinquency rate in 1944, tried

a public-sponsored program of recreation.
The project was begun a year ago, and now the
town has a “fun hall” with activities that include
all age groups. Not entirely satistied with the
progress they have made, the original planners
have ideas concerning a permanent recreation com-
mission and a central building to house spare time
activities of all descriptions.

In the fall of 1944 Lansdale, Pennsylvania, was
like any other town of 10,000 persons with its
diversitied social and religious organizations. It
had no central place for youth to spend its lei-
sure, the schools were inadequately equipped to
handle recreation needs. But, since the organization
of the Youth
CouncU,the
townspeople
have discovered
what united ef-
fort will do. The
first birthday of
the Rec, which
opened January
26 last year, re-
veals that over
34,000 persons
have been enter—
tained. The va-
riety .of interests
catered to in the
first year of oper-
ation is surpris-
ing.

ASM’ALL EASTERN community, faced with a ris-

Fun for All
Age Groups

The Rec, though
it ’was organized
by a youth coun-
cil, is more than
just another teen-
age center. It

76

has won and held for itself a tirm place with
young and old alike. For its policy has been in-
clusive of all age groups. Its program has been
planned to interest all the people of the commu-
nity. Seasonal parties, square dancing, outdoor
ball games, local talent nights, movies, tourna-
ments and bike hikes are included. Last July a
party of six took a two-week trip to the New
England states. In December the Rec held Christ-
mas parties especially for grade school children.
The hall has served as a meeting place for civic
clubs and parent education classes.

Youngsters in the seventh and eighth grades
have their nights twice a month, while the regu-

Cleaning up

In“... —-‘*-I“‘U'_--.'_!Dy‘- qua—H. u- —— at,

RECREATION

 

 

THE REC—A YEAR OLD CHILD OF PROMISE . 7?

far nights for high school students are \Vednes-
days, Fridays and saturdays. Adult nights are
held semi-monthly also. The Rec is run by high
school students and a supervisor, who plans and
oversees the functioning of all programs. Every

scheduled night is chaperoned.

The Rec posts a baby-sitter chart. Boys and
girls interested in earning money by this popular
method place their names and phone numbers on
the chart along with the nights and hours they

would like to spend 0n the job.

Beginnings

The Youth Council was born of a meeting of
interested townspeople in October, 1944. The
borough chief of police, mindful of the increase of
juvenile violations, willingly allowed his office to
serve as headquarters for .high school students
while they solicited donations. One day that fall
,was set aside as “Tag Day,” and the boys and
‘ girls raised over $1,200 merely by tagging persons
lin Lansdale’s business district. This initial sum
spurred interest in the movement. A local realtor
1 who had promised five years earlier to give $500
to an organization that could show tangible evi-
dence of having a definite youth program under
way was obliged to part with his contribution.

Although the idea had been fomenting in the ‘

minds of public-spirited individuals for years, the
Youth Council was the first definite step toWard
central community recreation. The organization
had raised a sum of money, knew what it wanted
in the way of benefits to youngsters, and began to
look about for a headquarters.

Help was granted enthusiastically. Students
who had set individual reputations for being un-

cooperative came forward willingly and assisted. .

A few men were employed for carpentry and
plumbing. Local merchants and utilities managers
were cooperative in reducing prices and rates on
items the Rec needed to operate. One club agreed
to furnish all the periodicals for the lounge as its
contribution. Local chapters of nationally known
.social clubs gave sizeable donations of money,
while the civic clubs saw to it that some quantity
of aid was given in the form of service. A high
'school and graduate boys’ club, organized for the
express purpose of giving community service, was
I ltctive in the renovation and did much in the way
I f publicizing the Rec prior to opening night.
\Vhen the gala evening arrived it was estimated

hat 2,500 guests were entertained. Members of
. .

{MAY 1946

 

Not for ’reen-agers alone

borough council, police force and service clubs and
their wives acted as hosts and hostesses. A school
dance band furnished music.

In February, when the Rec was a month old,
an “appreciation dinner” was given for members
of the town council and others who had been in-
strumental in starting and making the project suc-
cessful. Budgeting and planning for the dinner
was taken care of by the same boys’ club that had
worked on renovation and publicity.

Junior and Senior Committees

The all-important task of organizing properly
and drawing up byvlaws was performed by the
senior executive committee of the Youth Council
which is composed of representatives of the teach—
ing and ministerial professions, town council,
police force and various other occupational fields.
The senior committee serves also as the board of
directors.

A junior as well as a senior committee is con-
tained in the Council. Three members are elected
to the junior group annually from each of five
categories: high school freshmen, sophomores,
juniors, seniors, and graduates. The senior ex-
ecutive committee meets once a month. The unior

(Continued on page 110)

Sandia Mountain Camp

A

T 51x o’CLocx in the morning,
Juan Chavez tumbled out of
bed, swallowed his break-

fast, grabbed his bed roll and cook—
ing utensils and was off to the playground to
await the bus scheduled to pick him up at nine-
thirty. Today was the long-anticipated day.

Forty boys who could not otherwise have an
opportunity to go camping were going on an over-
night trip' to the Sandia (watermelon) Moun—
tains. They were gathered from all the city’s
playgrounds. Many had never before made this
thirty-mile trip to the mountains near Albuquerque
and only two of the group had had previous camp-
ing experience. The charge was two red points
per individual, for this was still wartime and the
meat‘ supply posed a problem because of ra-
tioning and the small .amount available. Plenty of
carrots and oranges were taken along for “in-be-
tween” snacks. The carrots disappeared as fast as
the oranges.

Boarding the bus with much bustle, noise, and
whistling, friends from the different playgrounds
sat together all talking at once but paying little

attention to the other groups. Juan wanted to-

know, “\Vhy was the bus so late?” Several others
checked the time and told him he was just early.

' Responsibilities and Relaxation and Sleep

After arriving at camp and eating a light lunch,
the first duty assigned the group was the collection
of enough firewood to last the entire camp period.
So, dividing into as many groups as there were
leaders, all fanned out over the side of the moun-
tain in their quest. On their return, instruction
was given as to the building and care of a fire and
the Cibola National Forest fire regulations were
explained. Preparation was then made for the
night, each one gathering pine needles and care-
fully preparing his own bed. By the time these
duties were performed, mess
call sounded. The boys
formed a double line and
were issued food in pairs.
Each pair cooked its food
over its own little campfire.
After dinner each camper
washed his own dishes.

78

By CHARLES RENFRO

Director of Recreation
Albuquerque, New Mexico

Camping talk is in the. air this time of the
year. On this and the succeeding pages
are records of three very different kinds of
camping experience—an overnight camp.
a week-end campl a long-term camp.
Each had different methods and different
obiectives. And each presents a differ-
ent one of the many phases of camping.

Baseball teams were organized
from the different playgrounds and
play was conducted in a new set—
ting. At the conclusion of the base-
ball games an inter—playground track and field
meet was held. These events kept the boys busy
until dusk when all were divided into two groups
for a game of “Run, Sheep, Run,” which proved
very popular. A huge bonfire was built and group
singing started. The boys all knew the patriotic,
songs but there wasn’t a song that all could join
in singing for fun. Several minutes were spent in
teaching a camp song and some rounds. After
singing and swapping a few stories, the campers
were eager to try their first night of sleeping on
the pine needles. Needless to say, there was quite
a bit of moving around during the night, some
seeking softer spots, others moving closer to the
leaders as coyotes began to howl and other noc—
turnal noises of the country fell on unaccustomed
ears.

I

The 'Day’s Activities

Next morning, by the time the sun’s rays had
reached the floor of the canyon, breakfast had been
completed and two hikes organized. One group
consisting of the smaller boys made a circle around
the camp. The older boys planned a hike to higher
ground crossing several canyons to gain a point of
vantage from which they would be able to see the
country for miles around. The route took the older
hikers by a spring at which all took a drink. Juan

'remarked, “Just like milk,”, and asked, “Where

does the water come from? Does it run all year?”
A little lesson in geology was held on the spot.
As the hike progressed note was made of the dif-
ference in the vegetation of the mountains as com—
pared with that in town. At a rest halt one hiker
asked, “When are we going on‘ that real hike we
were talking about P” Consequently, the trail was
' deserted and the return to
camp made through rough
country. Cutting across
country through tall timber,
the hikers came upon a sud- I

they had made this descent
(Continued on page 106)

RECREATION ‘

den drop of 50 feet. After\

Q
.

.l.
,h
,1
.p
l

l

l

  
 
 
   
 
 
  

4-H Club Camp

ON’T you JOIN us at the
4-H Club Camp at
Clear Lake to examine

the pattern of camp life and
to find the meaning it has for the rural youth gath-
ered here? Into the sun—drenched silence of pine

.f'tnd tamarack forest burst truck and bus loads of
.shouting, excited boys and girls from three coun- .

ties. Over a hundred of them assemble, the young-
est just under ten, the oldest' just over sixteen.
Quickly they get their name tags and their assign-
ment to one of four color groups, then find their
barracks and unroll bedding. Now the long-
awaited, much anticipated four day vacation is
ready to begin.

At the bugle call for assembly the campers come
running to the natural amphitheater deep in the
forest. There, with the six club leaders (fathers
and mothers of some of the children), with spe-

l cialists from the State Agricultural Extension Ser-
‘ vice, and with the agents from the several counties,

they sit in a big council ring. The camp director
calls for order. He announces that camp will be
self-governing. Nominations, he says, for presi-

' dent, vice-president and secretary are now in order.

A president is elected. He assumes charge of the
meeting. Council members, One representing each
color group, are chosen. Programs of camp activi-
ties are distributed. With the singing of a 4-H
Club song, camp is under way.

\

Democracy at Work

' Here, in this assembly, typical of 4-H Club
Camps, we see democracy in action. Were we to
examine the clubs themselves in various communi—
ties we would find that the goal of developing re-
sponsible citizenship through guided participation

‘in democratic procedure is the key to all club ac-

tivities. Does the camp president really preside?
'Does the council really function? Let .us get up
with the campers at six-thirty in the. morning to
see what the day’s program is like and to observe
he activities of the council. '

Early sunlight is slanting through the woods,
he air is sharp and clear, tantalizing odors 'come
rom the kitchen. The morning’s K. P. detail is
retti_ng things done under the guidance of one
ouncil member and the adviser assigned to this

AY 1946

By RUTH RADIR

Assistant Professor of Physical Education
State College of Washington

task. Another council mem-
ber, accompanied by his ad-
viser is starting barracks in-
spection, for beds are to be
made and floors swept before breakfast. The mem-
bers of the camp clean-up committee are out on
the grounds picking up sweaters, programs and
any personal property left carelessly about, and
gleefully putting it into the “lost and found” box.
It will be redeemed on the last night of camp in the
“Kangaroo Court.” An advise'r scarcely dare lay
a notebook or pencil down lest it be swooped upon
by one of the hawk-eyed members of the clean-up
committee.

Meanwhile, the council member in charge of
athletics is holding a meeting with his committee
and the camp recreation director, laying plans for
free afternoon time. A softball series to be played
between-color teams is arranged. One afternoon a
track and field meet of the hilarious type will take
place. A hike to a nearby lookout is decided on.
General plans are laid for a treasure hunt to take
place on the last morning of camp.

If we have time, we can look in on still another
planning meeting in which a council member, his-
committee and adviser are discussing plans for
evening programs. They have decided on one night
of party games, another of skits and musical num-
bers to be put on by individuals, and by clubs. The
third and last night will be devoted to the “Kan-
garoo Court.” To climax camp activities, after
dark this same evening, the impressive 4-H Club
candlelighting ceremony will be held.

So with much already accomplished, we find
ourselves at flag-raising, where campers pledge
allegiance to the flag of our country and also
pledge head, heart, hands and health to their club,
their community and their country. By this time
everyone can do justice to breakfast, an ample
meal, served by the campers themselves. As soon
as K. P. work is done the president calls an as-
sembly, at which he presides, asking for the report
of each council member. The campers are told
that advisers are ready to help them with their
contributions to the evening programs, if they
will seek his aid. Yes—democracy is functioning
here, with the members of the camp community
encouraged to assume responsibility to the extent

79

80 ' . 4-H CLUB CAMP

of which they are capable, in a situation where
good guidance can, and does, prevent the.negativc
and disheartening results of failure.

-A Little Learning

Now for classes. \V e will go with the Blues to
the class in judging. Here with farm products,
fruits, vegetables or poultry on hand, the specialist
in charge is setting standards for grading a given
type of product. The boys and girls jot down their
ratings of specific articles and compare their judg-
ments with that of the expert. This sharpening of
the powers of observation, of the power of dis-
crimination, and of the ability to arrive at a rea-
soned decision from sought-for evidence, will stand
them in good stead on many occasions. Its im-
mediate and practical value lies in enabling these
future farmers and farm homemakers to become
members of udging teams which will gain experi-
ence in club and community, and then function at
county and state fairs. Its more remote, and most
real value lies in the experienced use of a sound
basis for making decisions. Members of a democ-
racy, with the freedom that democracy extends to
its members, need basic techniques in problem
._solving, and in making reasoned choices.

On with the Blues to their next morning class,
recreation leadership. What fun they have in
active or in party games. “Leadership?” you say
with a query in your voice.‘ “This looks like su'per—
vised play.” But watch. Now the campers are
sitting down. They are responding to such ques-
tions as, “In what club or school situation could
you use the first game we played ?” “Which of the
party games did you like best?” When the latter
decisions have been reached, the recreation ad-
viser asks for' volunteers to lead these games at
the evening’s party-game program. Since each
color group will play different games during the
day, by evening there will be games and to spare
for the fun around the camp fire. Later in the
day, the adviser will call a meeting of the volun-
teer boy and girl leaders to make sure that each
can handle his chosen activity with the compe-
tence, befitting a ten— or a sixteen—year-old.

Yes, skills are deve10ping. Skills that will en-
rich idle hours in the isolated farm home, that will
make for happy times at club meetings, that will
enable the rising members of the community to
lead activities in which young and old can partici-
pate together. For the emphasis in the recrea—
tion leadership group is on games and stunts that
are interesting and fun for grandfather and grand-

- keeping the diving board in constant action. A

    
   
  
 

child, and the generation in between, to enjoy to
gether. All kinds of activities that may supplement
the weekly, or monthly, trip to town, that will
sharpen wits, that will .create laughter to bin
families more closely because of fun shared, and
that will bring neighbors together in the good-.
fellowship that makes for good living, are included.

A Little Fun .i

But now it is time for the morning swim. Smalh
campers are jumping up and down with excite-
ment in the roped-off' area. Skilled swimmers are
group of boys and girls who can swim only a little l
are receiving competent instruction from the State
Patrol Officer who is in camp to give talks and}
demonstrations on safety education. A whistle 
shrills from time to time. Buddies quickly grasp
hands and hold them up until the lifeguards can.
check every couple present. Then the gaiety of the
waterfront reaches a new peak as happy campers
experience the age-old satisfaction of becoming ‘
amphibious for a brief time.

After lunch is “loafing” hour, a quiet time for
reading, for writing, for walking, or for practicingl
in small groups for the evening program. After-1
noon classes begin as the bugle blo_ws. Better stay
with the Blues to see the class program through.
“Electricity in Rural Communities“ is the subject.
Fascinating demonstrations of alternating andi
direct current, and of the magnetic effect of electri-l
city flowing through a wire are available. These|
the children can operate themselves, to test theirJ
effects. Learning by doing is the emphasis here asi‘
in the other classes. - J

On to the last class of the day. It is group sing—j
ing, although it might be fire prevention, naturei
study or any one of a number of other interesting}
activities, depending on the camp site, the special-1
ists available and the like. As in the other classes.l
the campers are given every opportunity to usel
their own initiative, to participate actually and to
have a total experience in a satisfying situation.

During the free hour before the afternoon swim
handcraft materials are available to those who.
choose to make something. Volley ball, tether ball
and softball attract many of the boys and girls.1
Thus we can see camp as an active life, full of the
stimulation that group living holds for youngstersl
But .those who have planned camp have not forgot-
ten the basic need for rhythm in daily livingi

Quiet to contrast with noise, contemplation t ,5
. al
(Continued on page 103) 

RECREATION j
' i

 

 

 

 

l

Growth Through the Arts

2 with seventeen girls rang-
ing in age from ten and a half to sixteen, the

rhythm and temper of the group, combined with
all the circumstances of our departure, impressed
upon us more than ever that life today is stimulat-

a s we LEFT New York on July

. ing and built upon undercurrents of contrast and

4

confusion. The here-an‘d-now atmosphere of our
industrial age at that moment began to thrust
itself 'into our plans for two months of creative
work in the pastoral quiet and peace of a I75-acre
farm dating back to Revolutionary days, in the
Blue Ridge hills of Pennsylvania.

Parents gathered around the children could be
heard saying:

“I can't get down to see you more than once
because of gas and tires.”

“If Jimmy gets a furlough, I’ll call you, Mary.”

One mother confided in the director that she
might. have to see her daughter oftener if her

husband did not come back from overseas.
Here was a group of girls who represented the

energy and power characteristic of our youth

today, At the moment we were converting much
of such energy into the power of the war machine.
Could we, dare we, divert this energy from the
purposes of destruction of life to the creation of
life? For, after all, the purpose of art is to create
new life. W ith victory in Europe and “Peace . . .
standing off-stage waiting, for a cue at the end of
the Japanese drama,”* we felt that if we took the
potentials of youth and afforded an opportunity
for translating energy. into the usable and satisfy-
ing forms of painting, music, theater, and com—
munity living we would be laying some part of the
foundation needed for facing tomorrow.

The Confusion Stage

Though the entire group had chosen to come to
an arts camp, could we release the resources of the
girls in arts during the limited eight-week camp
period? And how strong really was their art
motivation  '

We soon found that many-.of the girls were
thoroughly conditioned by previous camp experi-
ences. Their patterns of leisure tended either in
the direction of doing nothing at all—negative

I

 

* From'On a Note of Trimuph by Norman Corwin.

MAY 1948

By DON OSCAR BECQUE

conservation of energy m or of
spasmodic bursts of activity.
Against this pattern is the interpretation of an art
environment as relaxation through expenditure of
energy, for energy flow generated and used con—
structively begets more energy and not less.

To many of the girls the latter ‘point of view
was almost completely foreign. They had little
conception of the persistent and almost Spartan
disregard for the little ills and moods of every—
dayness that is essential in. building an environ-
ment for creative activity. Soon the girls found
themselves in conflict with this interpretation and
with their interpretation of all the other-facets of
art. The first month, in the inner life of the girls,
was probably more chaotic than even the watchful
observers could realize. Ideas never doubted were
being questioned; new outlooks on life were com-
ing into being. It was a time of great emotional
upheaval.

Emotion manifested itself in many ways—“in the
abandon of early romances, in rebellion against
real or imagined injustices, in family and camp
relations. Precious time of this brief summer per-
iod was slipping by. Did one have to live through
confusion, chaos, before clarity and direction could
come? How were we to harness the emotional
drive, the dynamite of youth, to the complexities
and riddles of this age? How give it tracks to run
on, wings with which to fly, and at the same time
subject it to the austere controls of art so that the
emotional tide would not overflow and produce
wastelands? We believed that the answer lay in
the arts-through-—theater. But the immediate prob-
lem was to use the confusion stage effectively in
directing the energies of the girls toward creative
effort.

First, decision had to be made about the sched-
ule. How fiexible should it be? Creative drive
cannot be turned off and on' at the sound of a bell.
If anywhere, it is in the arts that differences in
individual patterns of performance show. But
knowing that most of these girls were used to reg-
ularity of camp routine, expected it, and found
security in it we started off in a fairly routinized
way. There were regular classes scheduled in
painting, dance and theater during the mornings
and late afternoons, while the greater part of the

81

82

afternoons was given over to swimming, rest, and
out-of—door activities. Second, there had to be
opportunity in all the arts for exploring many
mediums, for trying new approaches to creation,
for learning new skills. Third, there was need for
deveIOping a common body of experience of such
a nature as to widen their bases of understanding
of the world and its problems.

As to the schedule—the girls liked it at first.
Here was something definite, something familiar in
this strange new world. But after a while it began
to pall—blessed sign of the growth we had been
hoping for!

Out of their dissatisfaction came the first genu-
ine experience in group planning when they all
got together with the staff and worked out some—
thing that 'allowed for more fiexibility. The defi—
nite accomplishments they were experiencing in
the mastery of skills, particularly in the dance,
also appealed to them. But as for broadening their
bases of_ experience, there was little real interest.
They were still 'too engrossed in their own worlds
of personal romance, of personal relations, to be
drawn out of them for more than fleeting moments
into something bigger. Here we were. in the midst
of the anthracite region at a time when the papers
were full of dire predictions as to the race between
producing enough coal to supply Europe and a
growing anarchy. We took trips to the mines.
\Ve collected materials. We adults envisioned a
living newspaper based on coal that would be a
real contribution in the solution of a problem of
major importance! But it left the girls cold. “Too
much like school,:’ one of them said. I

Probably a strong factor in setting the direction
for their activities was the conventional youth’s
desire to ally himself with the known and admired
work of adults. They wanted to produce already
written plays rather than to write things of their
own. Whether we were at fault in our approach or
whether this particular group was simply not ready
to begin on a more original
level may be a matter of dis-

GROWTH THROUGH THE ARTS

girls, particularly the powerful and contemporary
statement of Corwin’s On a N oto of Triumph.
The deep concerns of today seemed to satisfy them
more than their own current events. By taking
them at their level of interest we approached them
creatively in the broad framework of motion, color,
sound, and dynamic staging.

Toward Creative Production

Early in August most of the group members had j

resolved their conflicts. Then they began to show
such enthusiasm that it was often necessary to
make them stop work long enough to eat and
sleep. One of the girls wrote in the camp news-
paper, “As the summer goes on, we use colors
with less restraint, our forms are freer, and above
all everybody uses more imagination.” _

Little by little we were able to break down the
idea that fixed lines separate the arts. When the
girls began to see this, they realized that the
original schedule with its breakdown into subjects
would not work. Our concern was not with a pro-
gram which stayed within the confines of art sub-
ject matter but with one in which all the forms of
expression came from living situations. These ex-
pression forms are realized through use of speech,
acting, the human body in motion, color or sound,
or through combinations of some or all of them.
We insisted that feelings and ideas*be communi—
cated clearly and simply, that there be something
to say and that it be said convincingly. In such a
framework it was inevitable that the arts were
constantly overlapping as they borrowed from one
another.

In the painting studio each girl was free to
work on what she chose—landscape, figure sketches,
picture stories, or abstractions. Tempera, char-
coal, pastels, oils, and clay were used. Subject
matter gradually became less and less conventional
and it varied with the changing activities of the
camp. One of the girls expressed this change in
the newspaper: “Most of our
paintings have been big and

cussion. However that may
be, even in this first month of
confusion the desire to pro-
duce adult plays was so great
that they came through with
creditable performances of
parts of Limbo, Tomorrow the
World, Our Town, and" On a
Note of Triumph. These plays
were very satisfying to the

In the June I945 issue of RECREATION

we published Strategy for Growth, an
article recording the beginnings of an

experiment in camping. On these pagesI
through the courtesy of Childhood
Education published by the Association
for Childhood Education at l20| lbth
Street' N. W.I Washington 6, D. C.
(issue of December I945). we are re—
printing an analysis of last season's
arts camp' and of its significance

to the campers who attended it.

bold. But now we are work-
ing on a Chinese play and our
paintings on the sets and the
properties seem fragile by
contrast. All of us have gone
beyond painting as a tech-
nique.”

There was a recorder group
and a choral group in music
which constantly contributed

RECREATION

J
I
i
l

 

é

GROWTH THROUGH THE ARTS 83

to theater. Two pianos, ancient and in need of re-
pair, could hardly be used at all, but the creative
1 genius of the musician on the staff not only solved
', this problem but stimulated the girls to similar
' ', activities. He improvised an orchestra of old brass
‘ umbrella stands, flower pots, and cooking utensils
‘ from which he produced amazing rhythms and
I I, sound effects.
: However, we found the dance to be the most
direct, sensitive, and inclusive medium for accent-
ing everyday experiences, as well as for releasing
. all those half-hidden and unrealized urges and ten—
. sions which cross-section the contemporary indi—
. vidual. For one thing, here” was a medium which
few of the girls felt they knew anything about.
Also, it was nonvocative. One was free to choose
any feeling or idea and to project it in a form on
the general level of one’s’own development. The
idea-feeling could come to immediate grip with the
materials that were to give it form. Then, too, the
content of dance runs the gamut of human experi-
ence and provides for a dynamic alternation of
primitive and race urges and experiences with the
social knowledge of the time. What was done here
in dance also met the demands of theater. Toby’s
I poem, “Bimbo the Snip,” states the case: ‘

I
J

 

U.‘

 

I groped through my mind
I And knew that I was no longer myself
But a little boy—
. A boy whose finger stuck to his nose
When the wind changed
My body was to move with Bimbo the Snip.

If words can tell how one feels when dancing,
Sophie’s poem, “I Am Dancing,” comes some-
where near it:

I’m a top spinning aeross the floor,

I’m a [whirlpool whirling in the river,

I I’m a propeller beating against the wind.
I’m a dishrag flopping on the floor,
I’m a weeping willow sad and drooping,
I’m a rag doll loose and limber.
I’m a bird with no limit to my flight,

. I’m an American free to show what I feel,
‘ Free to say what I think.

l
t

I! I’m happy—I’m relaxed—I’m free ——
l I am dancing.

True to its ancient heritage, dance became for
us the cradle of our best theater during the sum-
mer. Little by little the dance ideas grew into
l short scenarios to which words were often added
and music composgd on percussion, by voice, on
recorder and piano.

Our approach to the theater used many skills,
echniques and abilities. It began with both in-

 
  

l AY 1946

dividual and group planning in writing an idea for
presentation and then in bringing the characters to
life on theistage through movement and acting. All
this involved speech clearly and accurately pro-
jected; the use of action and sounds heightened
into rhythmic pattern; designing, costuming and
lighting. These must be welded into a master plan

of staging so that the.idea can be communicated
to others.

Communicating an idea through this process is
theater, which is a social medium involving the

- group-community. The “audience” completes the

round in the circuit. These two opposites should
ignite into a living spark. Thinking, feeling and
doing on this level bring the whole person into a
group function on a complex social plane. It is a
coordination of knowing and doing through visual,
auditory and kinetic means.—— the characteristic
means of our age. To synchronization of physical,
mental and emotional faculties must be added
imagination, the kind Corwin says is “capable of
winding for many a statute mile and is reversible
in time and space, keeping you close to the ground,

yet reasonably ‘well informed about developments
in the stratosphere.”

Toward the end of the summer the activities
culminated, under the emotional impact of V-J
Day, in the older group’s ten-minute dance drama
on their impression of this momentous day. This
theater piece, along with a whole evening’s pro-
gram of other original group and solo dances, was
given with all the musical accompaniment com-
posed and played by the girls. The evening before
had witnessed a full-length production of Saroyan’s
My Heart’s in the Highlands and a modern
Chinese play. A little later a whole program of
choral and recorder music by ancient and modern
composers was given. Accompanying this was a
largeand impressive exhibition of paintings, draw-
ings and sculpture.

Evaluation of Growth

It is very difficult to evaluate the summer’s
program. There are no adequate yardsticks for
measuring growth of this type. Besides, the most
important outcomes do not show immediately. “We,
too, are too close to the summer to have perspect-
ive enough to save us from snap judgments and
our own enthusiasms. But perhaps what two of
the girls themselves said may be revealing. After
arriving home, Evelyn wrote:

(Continued on page 102)

School for Citizens

IGHLAND PARK, MICHIGAN, is a community
blessed with a heterogeneous population.
People from all parts of the world have

found their way and are still finding their way to
the city whose population, according to the 1940
census, was 50,810. In a single month (November
1945) pebple from sixteen different nations living
in Highland Park found themselves with problems
crying to be solved. The problems are, in the
main, big ones, not easily solved by the average
person. They involve—many of them—matters of
legality, of birth certificates and proof of death, for
persons long since buried in another land, of “in-
ternational’f marriages and the children that sprang
from them, of naturalizations and of immigration.
They oftentimes require the services of an expert
not easily available to a “stranger” newly come to
this country.

So it was that back in 1925 the Highland Park
American Citizenship Bureau came into being “to
help with the naturalization and immigration prob—
lems; to prepare the student for passing a naturali-
zation examination, by giving him the necessary
knowledge of history and the principles of govern—
ment ; to promote growth in attitude that will lead
the students to become responsible citizens in their
community; to encourage a desire among the stu~
dents to work closely and harmoniously with all
nationalities.” 'The Bureau is financed and gov-

erned by the Recreation Commission of Highland
Park.

History

The Annual Report of the Bureau for 1939-40
summarizes the early history of its work, and that
summary is so interesting that much of it is quoted
here: '

“In the early days of its existence the American
Citizenship Bureau worked entirely with the non-
citizen. The Bureau assisted him with his immi-
gration and naturalization problems, taught him to

read and write, encouraged him, shared his enm .

thusiasm, and watched with .pride as he discharged
his civic obligations and took his place as a fellow

- work of the Bureau, but many services have been

Bureau, therefore, became interested in taking
school to the women. Classes were organized, and
instruction was based on the daily work schedule
in the home. Friendly contacts were established
which rapidly developed into the teaching of read—
ing, writing, and citizenship.

“Gradually, the women were numbered in the
attendance at the evening and day schools and the
home classes were discontinued. It was a red let-
ter day in the Citizenship Bureau when, after

almost six years, the first group of women came to
apply for citizenship.

“Development. This work is still the important

added, and rapidly changing laws and regulations
have made the work more complicated. Register-
ing entries, legalizing entries, and even first and
second paper applications are requiring an increas-
ing number of documents such as birth and death

certificates, divorce decrees, afiidavits of residence,
and employment records.

“People who became citizens through their
father or mother are being challenged to prove
their citizenship. A few years ago it was only
necessary for them to say their father was a citi—
zen and to show his citizenship papers. That time
has passed. To show definite proof of citizenship
people are now requested to show derivative citi-
zenship certificates in their own name: This re-

quirement necessitates legal documents and affi-
davits. . . .

 

“Today, the American Citizenship Bureau not
only assists the foreign-born to acquire American

citizenship, but also assists the American citizen
to prove his citizenship.

" 'Can You Help Me?' Advice has become more
technical for the process of naturalization. Every
person is given individual attention and every
problem is solved 'as far as it is humanly possible
to do so. . . . i

“A few of the hundreds of requests made at the
Bureau are as follows:

“ ‘My father brought me to this country when

American in the community.

“When the men who attended the citizenship
classes were asked if they would like to have their
wives attend, they always answered in the nega-
tive. The wives had too much to do at home! The

I was fourteen. He registered his entry but did
not register mine. My father has returned to his

 

own country and so far I have paid a lawyer \Q
$1,000 to keep me here. The lawyer tells me I 

can be deported. Can you help me ?’ ii

34 , RECREATION

 

SCHOOL FOR CITIZENS - 85

-_-v-

 

Why does my grandma have to go to school?

“‘Am I a citizen? I was over twenty-one
when my father became naturalized, but my
name is listed on‘hils citizenship papers.’

“ ‘I was born in this country. Will you help
me make a delayed registration of my birth?’

“ ‘Before I become a citizen, I must prove that
my wife died in Hungary: W ill you help me
get proof of her death?’

“ ‘What can I do to prove that I am in the
country legally? My father and mother brought
me to this country in 1905 when records were
not required. I was six months old at the time.’

“ ‘Can I legalize my entry into the United
States? I am a war orphan and do not know the
country in which I was born.’

“Human interest stories of every nature and de-
scription are brought to the Bureau. The follow-
ing is one of many:

“ ‘I don’t think I will ever be a citizen. I have
four first papers and they are all no good. The
first time they gave me my paper it was too soon
before election. Next time I give Hungary as
my country. I did not know it was changed
after the war. They say I renounced the wrong
country. Then I get another first paper. This
time, I think I sure become a citizen. I go with
my witnesses for examination, but I do not pass.
My paper gets over seven years old. I take out
new first paper. Now you say, your paper is no

MAY 1946

good. It was taken out in the wrong county. I
don’t know what to do. I want to be a citizen.
Will you help me ?’

“A great deal of attention was given in the
newspapers to the case of an American—born citi—
zen of Polish descent who brought his Russian-
born wife to this country a short time ago. In
November of this year we were able to do the same
thing without any publicity or any political influ-
ence. '

“Mr. X, a naturalized American citizen, of Swed-
ish descent, worked for an American firm in Rus-
sia. While there, he married a Russian girl. He
returned to the United States in 1936Pand immedi—
ately started proceedings to bring his wife and
small daughter to this country.

“After trying in vain many places, he. came to
us with his problem. Through the Secretary of
State in Washington, the American Ambassador
in Moscow, and the American consul in Finland,
we were able to arrange for Mrs. K. to renounce
her Soviet citizenship, leave Russia and go to
Helsinki.

“Mrs. X. stayed with her husband's sister in
Finland while passport arrangements were being
completed to bring her and her small daughter to
America. Just two weeks before the Russian
bombing of Helsinki and without any nutnriety

(Continued on page 104)

Official Rules of Softball
1946-

This reprint of the Official Softball

Rules is made by permission of the
Joint Rules Committee on Softball.

HE EXACT wording of the
Trules of 1945 are to be used
with the following excep—
tions:
Joint Rules Committee on Softball
Changes in the Oflicial'Softball Rules for 1946
apply to Rule 1; Rule 2; Rule 4, Sections I and
2; Rule 11, Section 4 eliminated; Rule 18, Sec-
tion 3; Rule 26, new section, No. 6; Rule 27,
Sections I and 2.
The correct wording of the revised Rules and

Sections follows :

Rule I. The Diamond

The official diamond shall have 55 foot base
lines, with a pitching distance of 43 feet, and other
details as shown in the accompanying diagrams.
For girls play the official pitching distance shall

be 35 feet.

Rule 2.

Determine the position of the homeplate. Draw
a line in the direction it is desired to lay the dia-
mond. Drive a stake at the corner of home plate
nearest the catcher. Fasten a cord to this stake
and tie knots, or otherwise mark the cord, at 43
feet, 55 feet, 77 feet 9% inches and at 110 feet.

Place the cord (without stretching) along the
direction line and at the 43 foot mark place a
stake—this will be the front line at the middle of
the pitcher’s plate. Along the same line drive a
stake at 77 feet 9% inches-wthis will. be the center
of second base. '

Place the 110 foot marker at the center of sec-
0nd base and taking hold of the cord at the 55 foot
marker, walk to the right of the direction line until
the cord is taut (but not stretched) and drive a
stake at the 55 foot marker—*this will be the out—
side corner of first base, and the cord will now
form the lines to first and second bases. Again
holding the cord at the 55 foot marker, walk across
the field and in like manner'mark the outside cor-
.ner of third base. Home plate, first and third
bases are wholly inside the diamond.

To check the diamond, place the home plate end
of the cord at the first base stake and the I IO foot

marker atfthird base. The 55 foot marker should
now check at home plate and second base.

Laying Out Diamond

86

Check all distances with a
steel tape whenever possible.
The Three-Foot Line—same.

The Batter’s Box——-The bat-

ter’s box (one on each side of home plate) shall
measure 3 x 7 feet. The inside line of the batter’s
box shall be 6 inches from home plate. The front
line of the batter’s box shall be 4 feet in front of
a line drawn through the center of home plate, and
the back line shall be, 3 feet back of the center of
home plate.

The Catcher’s Box—same.

The Coacher’s Box—same.

Rule. 4. Teams... Players and Substitutes

Section I. A team shall consist of nine (9)
players, whose positions shall be designated as fol-
lows: Catcher, Pitcher, First Baseman, Second
Baseman, Third Baseman, Shortstop, Left Fielder,
Center Fielder, and Right Fielder. Players of the
team in the field may be stationed at any points on
fair ground which their captain may elect, except
that the pitcher, while in the act of delivering the
ball to the batsman, must take his position as
defined in Rule 8 and the catcher must be within
the lines of his position.

Section 2. No team shall be permitted to start or
to continue a game with less than NINE players,
and each side shall have suflicient substitutes to
carry out the provisions of this section.

Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and the Note remain the
same.

Rule ll. Unfairly Delivered Ball

Eliminate Section 4 which reads “A pitched
ball, not struck at, which touches any part of the
Batsman’s person or clothing while standing in
his position, provided the batter does not inten-
tionally allow the ball to strike him. No base-
runner shall advance on such ball unless he be
compelled to do so by reason.of its being the
fourth ball and the batsman becomes a base-
runner.”

Re—number Sections 5 and 6 as 4 and 5 re-
spectively. '
Rule l8. Balls Batted Outside the Playing Field

Section 3. A fair hit ball that bounds or rolls

into a stand or over, UNDER or THROUGH a fence 

(Continued on page 96)

RECREATION l

 

 

MAY 1946

OFFICIAL RULES OF SOFTBALL—I946

 

87

Home p1. ATE DEM/L/

 

Two Heads Are Better Than One
—and More Fun ’

‘ OSEPH ALGER’S “Get in There
and Paint” in RECREATION,
November, 1944, and the re-

print of his article in the Reader’s Digest, Decem-

ber, 1944, probably created more amateur artists
in this country than all the art teaching in the
public schools in the last half dozen years. The
contagion of the article itself gave the more cour-
ageous souls the needed zest for the start in this
enjoyable sport. And grand sport it is, too.

Perhaps you were one of those who immediately
hunted up palette and paints, started hopefully on
a canvas, and found the promised fun and pleasure.
Perhaps you were one of the much more numerous
timid souls who wanted to try to paint but didnot
quite have the nerve. It sounded great, but you
just couldn’t start. Maybe you even went so far
as to buy some materials. You looked hopefully
at them, but they seemed utterly impossible—those
squashy tubes, that unmanageable brush, that large,
white expanse of canvas. 80 you simply gave up.
But you would still like to try.

\Vcll, get out your paints again. Here is your
solution. “7 hat you needed was someone to en-
courage you, to keep you company in your efforts,
to give you “moral support.” Look around for
someone who, you think, might like to paint, too.
Don’t hunt up someone with much experience. He
may only succeeed in making you surer than ever
that you can never control those brushes as he can.
You’ll probably feel convinced that your picture
will look dreadful beside his. You’ll 'be defeated
before you start. No, find some other timid soul
who feels much like yourself. Don’t stop with one.
Make it three or more. There is still strength in
numbers, you know. Add a few who may know a
little about this painting business if you can, but,
remember, they must know only a little. You don’t
want any discouraging competition.

A Place to Work

It may be winter and you’ll need a room in
which to work. It should be a plain, empty room
with plenty of windows and artificial lighting, for
more than likely you may want to paint at night.

88

By EDNA A. BOTTORF
Lock Haven. Pennsylvania

week is not too often. With things as they are

\

   
  
    
 
 
     

That may be your only availabl
spare time. Get rid of rugs and a
other furnishings except the bares:
essentials, because while you are painting, yo
can’t be worrying about the furnishings nor abou
cleaning up afterward. Paints do get on thin“;
most unexpectedly. Brushes will drop and tur-y
pentine spill.

need elbow room. A box to sit on may come in
handy but more likely than not it will get in your
way when you move back and forth (as you will):
trying to see the effect you are getting in yourq
picture. Nor can you be bothered. with getting up
and down all the time.

 

The location must be convenient. You never
know when you might get the urge—wor the time—
to paint. You won’t want to waste time getting
there and back. And the rent should be low.
Maybe someone will generously offer a“ room, rent
free! For you’ll probably want to put into ma*
terials what money you have for your adventure.
and they are somewhat expensive. You may also
want to add an easel or paint box soon. Not im-
mediate necessities? No, indeed. But they are
convenient and a help. Start out with only the
bare essentials—just a few tubes of color, some oil
and turpentine, a brush or two. And canvas. For
a start, canvas board will do.

Now you have a room, the materials and com-
panionship. Decide on a .regular time. Once a

these days something may interfere with regular
attendance. Decide on long hours—come early,
stay late—for some won’t be able to come as soon
as others, and some may have ‘to leave early. No
one must feel compelled to maintain any semblance
of regularity. You’re coming for fun. You’ll soon
find everyone will come as frequently and stay as
long as possible and indulge in a good Spell oi
griping if anything keeps him away.

Now bring your paints together and all pick upi.
a tube. There is confidence in numbers! Particuvxus

larly when the others know no more than you do.”
'a

RECREATION 3

 

TIVO HEADS ARE, BETTER THAN ONE—AND MORE FUN 89

'Dab in with your brush. Make a blotch on the

canvas. You’re started! You’re off!

Getting Down to Work

What are you painting? Mr. Alger gave some
Splendid suggestions. Read his article again. Does
the model overwhelm you? It has swamped many
I a soul. Could you copy some picture you admire?
You shouldn't. It’s not altogether ethical and may
be illegal. But the artist of your choice will likely
not complain. He’ll be pleased as punch to think
that you like his painting that much. You shouldn’t
call your picture an original, though, even though
it more likely than not won’t look too much like the
original. Copying will certainly make the start
easier for you. It will give you ideas, too. Dollars
to doughnuts, you’ll soon see something around
you that you’ll want to try for yourself, and, once
you do an original painting, you’ll never go back
to copying. It’s much more fun to find your own
subjects. _

Now that you’re started, look at the other fel-
low’s painting occasionally. Tell him what you
like about it. He’ll do the same for you. That’s
what makes group painting so enjoyable and en-
couraging. You learn from each other. Don’t try

to paint as someone else does, though. You probas '

bly can’t if you try. Each has his own way and his
- may not be yours. You’ll just get discouraged tr-y-
ing to use another person’s technique. Besides,
there is no one best method. There are as many
ways as‘there are painters and you naturally paint
the way that’s best for you.

After you’ve done a few pictures and feel more
encouraged and confident, ask someone who knows
a little'more than the rest of you to give you a
criticism. That doesn’t mean he’ll tell you all your
l'aults. He’ll point out some of them with sugges—
tions for improvement, but he’ll also tell you your
good points and thus "please you. Don’t ask a pro—
fessional to render, this service. He doesn’t have
the time—nor often the patience—for such a task.
An art teacher in the public schools will probably
be glad to help. They’re used to, encouraging
stumbling efforts and really enjoy it. It wouldn’t
hurt to “make it worth their while,” though.

How About an Organization?

Once you get started you ought to organize.
Someone should be a little responsible for keeping
an eye on things. Believe it or not, you may want
to hold exhibits. In fact, plan for them. They’ll
prove stimulating to you. You'll want publicity—

MAY 1946

Every now and then an article serves
as that well-known stone which. dropped
into a pool. starts the circling of the
waters. Such an article in the November
I944 issue of RECREATION is still hav-
ing its effect as witness this sugges-
tion for organizing a group of fellow-
-beginners in the art of painting in oils.

you’ll want to let others know about what you are
doing so they can join you, too. As ever, the more
the merrier. A window display in some merchant’s
store showing palettes and finished, as well as
partly finished, canvases will entice others as
quickly as anything. Merchants are most coopera-
tive, you’ll find. They’ll even Stage exhibits for
you. Get each one to Show a painting or two with
his usual display some particular week—National
Art Week, the first week in November, is a good
time. The local paint store may stock materials
for you. It may do even more—sell your pictures
for a small fee provided you get so professional
that you can be persuaded to part with one of your
efforts. The florist may be delighted to use a still
life painting as a back-drOp for his floral displays.
\Vithout some sort of organization you may never

get these opportunities or be able to take proper
advantage of them if you do.

Keep the organization simple. Just the neces-
sary ofhcers—a president and secretary-treasurer
-—-will do. Have more officers if you wish, of
course, but don’t make your organization cumber-
some. Some person Should see to it that somebody
will be at the studio ( l) at meeting time. That is
a “must”—probably the only one. Remember, the
reason you' didn’t paint long ago was because you
needed moral support. You want to be sure there’ll
be someone to paint with you. Then, too, you may
have some correspondence to carry one—you never
know. There may be some professional artist who
hails from your town and who can lend distinction
to your group if he accepts the “honorary mem—
bership” that you are glad to offer him. You may
need someone to handle any money you acquire.
Maybe you’ll decide on dues to pay for such inci-
dentals that may turn up as writing paper and
stamps. But keep fees low, the lower the better.
You don’t want to keep someone out because of a
burdensome charge. A dollar a year is plenty. If
you must have more money, put on a campaign for
"sustaining members.” If you expand your pro-
grain to include the bringing in of art exhibits by

(Continued on page 110)

Where Classics Are Hits

By ELIZABETH SANDERS
Louisville. Kentucky

EETHOVEN is catching up with
b00gie in the race for musi-
cal popularity honors among

thousands of young Louisvillians. Chiefly respon-
sible for. this phenomenon is Robert Whitney, con-
ductor of the Louisville ,Philharmonic Orchestra,
whose enthusiasm for exposing young people to
great music is shared by his musicians‘and also by
the Junior League. The Louisville Philharmonic
Society believes with Mr. Whitney that an orches-
tra should perform a community service, and edu-
cational concerts are among the first of such ser-
vices. In fact, the society operates a full-time,
year—round children’s activities department under
the direct guidance of Mr. Whitney.

“Standing Room Only” signs go up at the Me-
morial Auditorium. when the Louisville Philhar-
monic Orchestra presents its afternoon concerts,
given in two series of four concerts each, one for
high school students known as High School M ati-
. nee and the other for children from elementary
grades called Making Music. More than 6,000
young Louisvillians learn to listen intelligently to
music, as Mr. Whitney and the orchestra demon-
strate the fundamental principles of the art. The
following are samples of Whitney-inspired teach-
ing tricks. '

Special Programs

In one program, Musical Inventions, Mr. Whit-
ney, aided by musicians in the orchestra, shows the
children how to compose a musical phrase, balance
it with an answering phrase and create a little
piece of folk song form. The principle of state-
ment, contrast and reprise, which is fundamental
in most musical compositions large or small, is
thus readily grasped by the children. Further-
more, they are urged to compose their own little
pieces along the lines demonstrated. Usually a
considerable number of compositions are sent in
to the Philharmonic and the more outstanding
ones are performed at a later concert.

Music Conversation is a simple demonstration
of the art of orchestration. This program illus-
trates the give and take of the solo instruments and
instrumental choirs against the background of the
“tutti” or full orchestra. In the program Rhythm
and Dancing the close relationship of music and

90

   
   
  
    
  

dancing is emphasized. A minuet,
mazurka and other dances are
performed by school groups in
costume with the orchestra so that the audience
can see the dances that have strongly influenced
instrumental music.

Another program, Tone Weaving, begins with
the singing of a round by the audience and is fol-
lowed by performance of pieces in canon and fugal
form to cultivate the ability to listen to simultan-
eous melodic lines—contrapuntal listening. The
old faithful mu'sic appreciation teaching aide, the
demonstration of orchestral instruments is, of
course, always interesting to children and there-
fore included on some of the programs.

A genius at program planning for all kinds of
audiences, Mr. Whitney maps out in advance the
entire children’s season and prepares booklet pro-
grams, which are printed by the Philharmonic
Society and given free to the young subscribers
and to their teachers. Included are the musical
themes and background nOtes on the composers
and the music. ,

In an easy and informal manner Mr. Whitney
makes explanations at the concerts without con-
descension but in language the children under-
stand. His remarks are frequently supplemented
by colored slides, loaned by the Ernest Schelling
Collection of the New York Philharmonic Society,
which have proved to be very popular with the
children. . .

From Philharmonic auditions, open to Ken-
tuckian music students of school age, soloists who
excel are chosen to appear with the orchestra. In
addition,.an outstanding school orchestra is recog-
nized by being invited to perform a selection at the
final concert of the series. '

Radio Tie-in

Completely sold on the success of the Philhar-
monic’s educational concerts, the Junior League
radio committee, headed by Mrs. David P. Castle-
man, consulted Mr. Whitney about setting up a
music appreciation radio series. As a result, musi-
cal education by radio has invaded 379 Louisville
and Jefferson County classrooms, where over -
12,000 grade school students listen to Making\%

I

(Continued on page 107)

RECREATION ,

WORLD
AT

PLAY

IT IS NEWS when a Com—
munity House can cele—
brate its hundredth birth-
day! That is what hap-
pened in West Orange, New Jersey, on January

‘Hundredth
Anniversary

.23, 1946. The \Vest Orange Community House

has currently an enrollment of 5,000. In 1945
60,000 pe0p1e used its facilities. Congratulations
to the West Orange Community House on its
century of progress and achievement.

DURING April and May
the Chicago Recreation
Commission ran a series

Bird Walks

of Saturday morning bird walks for bird lovers

and early risers. The walks were conducted by a
member of the Illinois Audubon Society. They
left a designated meeting place at 7 :30 A. M. with
the exception of the last walk, scheduled for May
18, which started at 6 A.1\I., “for then,” says the bul-
letin Freedom for Fun, “the warblers will be pass—
ing through Chicago and maybe seen to their best
advantage.”

THE Recreation Depart—
ment in San Bernardino,
California, has a new
wrinkle for its program. Many of the children who
use the Department’s facilities own their own
ponies and horses. So the authorities set up a

Riding School

riding school where the youngsters are-taught

trick riding. That they are getting the most from
this opportunity was shown by a line demonstra-
tion they gave at a playground circus.

AMONG other features
planned for the celebra-
, tion. of Music \Veek, 1946,
in Chicago is the second annual Music Week Con-

Music Week

c——-—

- ference. The first conference was held last year

and contributed a great deal to the success of the
over-all Music Week program.

MAY 1946

 

Print by Cedge Harmon

ALL DURING the years of
war the Detroit City
Planning Commission
worked upon a Master Plan for the development
of the Detroit of the future. The plan was set up

Master Plan

.in eight sections. By December I, 1945 six of the

eight were ready for public presentation.

In order to keep the public informed of the plan-
ning and to give Mr. and Mrs. Average Detroiter
the chance to add their ideas and their needs to the
opinions of experts the Detroit Public Library and
the Citizens’ Housing and Planning Council of
Detroit scheduled four evening discussions. The
subjects for the four were: You and the M aster
Plan, You and Recreation, You and Transporta—
fiou, You and Y our Community.

These general discussions were followed up
during the winter and spring months by sixteen
neighborhood meetings sponsored by District or
Community Councils and held at eight branch
libraries. Here were presented those aspects of the
Master Plan which related specifically to the neigh-
borhoods. Each branch library was host to two
meetings which were followed up by a series of
discussion groups made up of citizens.

THE First Christian
Church of Oklahoma City
attempts to present a
seven-day a week program to its members and
friends. A youth program known as the Sunday

Church ReCreation

01

I

92 I/VORLD A T PLA Y

  
  

SPORTS :
EQUIPMENT

64am RAWLINGS
Mm ATHLETIC GOODS

4M 3% 5M
Available from

Leading Athletic Goods
Distributors

MANUFACTURING I20.

 
   
 
   
 

ST. LOUIS ‘ MISSOURI

Evening Club had an average of over 200 young
people gather each Sunday night for spiritual and
recreation fellowship. During a twelve-month per-
iod there were about 700 additions to the member-
ship of the church. The morning congregation
averages more than 2,000.

Armory to Recreation Center-—-—Civic groups
in Tulsa, Oklahoma, have their own version of
turning swords into ploughshares. Their plans call
for turning a National Guard Armory into a Rec-
reation Center. The Center will be equipped for
dances and parties, shows and basketball, boxing,
and other indoor sports. The Armory provides
more than 17,500 square feet of space that could
he used for athletic events.

Bird Study—The National Audubon Society,
1006 Fifth Avenue, New York 28, New York, has
published three sets of bird cards that should be a
valuable aid to nature study. They are post-card
size in color with a description of the bird and its
habits on the back of the card. The sets are titled
Fifty IVihter. Birds of Eastern North America,
Fifty Spring Birds of Eastern North America,

    

Fifty Simmzer Birds of Eastern North America
Each set is $1.

In addition hand-colored lantern slides of North
American birds are available from the Society as'
are 16 mm. silent films in color and in black and
white. For further‘ details write the National
Audubon Society for their descriptive folders and '
mimeographed sheets.

Recreation at Kankakee State Hospital—At
Kankakee State HOSpital, Illinois, recreation is an
important factor in the lives of the abnormal pa-
tients. There are 4,000 patients in the institution
and almost all of them have a chance to participate
in some form of recreation. Dances, parties, sings,
movies, outdoor games are part of the routine of
the patients who are well enough to participatef
Even the most disturbed patients have a chance to
get out of doors and walk about the grounds al-
though this must be under close supervision.

A trained recreation worker who visited the
hospital says of one of these recreation activities,
“I attended a dance . . . and the way it was con-
ducted would have surpassed most normal com-
munity dances. What it means to the patients is

beyond description.”

A Day to Remember—Sunday, May 19, has
been set .aside as the date in this year of 1946 for
paying special tribute to new citizens. This is the
day dedicated for singling out for recognition those
people who have become citizens during the pre-
ceding year. In many communities the occasion
is marked with ceremonies fitting to its happy
nature. Mark it on your calendar. ' It is a day.to
remember.

Day of Recreation—This—April 27- May 4
—is National Boys’ and Girls’ Week. This week,
for the twenty-sixth time, groups are focussing
attention on boys and girls—their activities, their
organizations, their interests, their needs. The
final observance will take place on Saturday, May
4. That ‘day is of especial interest to readers of '
RECREATION, for its suggested designation is “Day
of Recreation.”

Suggestions for Your Summer Program—
From the U. S. Forest Service come two booklets .-.~_.
that are well worth the gettingh Building ‘ZUif/t\\
Logs (Miscellaneous Publication No. 579) is
available from the Superintendent of Documents,

RECREATION

  
    
            

 
 

' 0
@045 6am? W
(I CHAMPION:  

- .. .. JP

\

  

the finest performance 
under all playing conditions over

the longest period of time.

Von

M I M I I I
A‘NlI'IC
"08""!!!

     

W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25%|: Street, los Angeles ll 0 180 No. Wacker Drive, Chicago 6

    
 
   

 

9+ PAGEANT OF LOYALTY AND DEVOTION TO THE FLAG OF OUR COUNTRY

" every field of sport in Proies
vomal Semi-Pro and Amateur 8655'.-
bal' and Softbai'l. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools, In Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGrcgm-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
I arll of quality and unvarying
performance.
.45

clru~ 'II I-

lit M II. Illlor‘ um
I

PINV'INNAW-~- I4. hula. u s. A

 

U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington
35, D. C., at a cost of 15 cents a copy. It is a
carefully I'n‘epared and fully illustrated hand—

book for anyone who wants to build log shelters ‘

or log houses. There is a section on furniture
suitable for the log house, together with detailed
plans for'building it; and there are four plans for
log houses of different sizes and design.

The other pamphlet is_mimeographed material
called Conservation Workshop. It is available

from U. S. Forest Service, Region 7, South Build- .

ing, Thirteenth Street and Independence Avenue,
S.VV., Washington, D. C., for the asking. It de-
scribes the steps necessary to set up and main-
tain a training institute or workshop in conserva-
tion; has sections on curricula, instructors, spon-
sors, program, lists the established workshops

throughout the country with some, description of
their scope.

Both these pamphlets are recommended as val—
uable additions to any recreation library.

MAY 1946

Pageant of Loyalty' and
Devotion to the Flag

Of Our Country

HE STORY of Alameda, California’s Annual Flag

Day observance which is the major civic and
community enterprise undertaken by that city, had
its beginning in 1938, just eight years ago.

It was an eventful day for Alameda when the
Mayor decided to act on the suggestions made by
the National Flag Week Observance Committee.
He‘appointed a committee composed of the presid-
ing officers of all civic, fraternal and veteran or—
ganizations throughout the city. The function of
this committee was to decide on ways and means
to pay tribute to our Flag. At the same time the
intention was to enlist the. cooperation of these

' organizations in the furtherance of the organized

program of the City’s Recreation Department.

This idea met with enthusiastic response and
from the very first meeting, which was held in the
Council Chambers, it was evident that the enter-
prise was going to be a tremendous success. Never
before had organizations of varied interests and
objectives been brought together for such a large
undertaking. Although it might appear that such
a group would have difficulty in acting together as
a unit, it is a fact that the same idea has been used
year after year and no such difficulty has ever been
experienced. On the contrary the response has
always been much better than could be reasonably
expected. Veterans’ organizations can always be
depended upon to give good support to all patri-
otic activities, but the interest by no means was
confined to any one kind of organization.

The Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks
has a beautiful ritual and an accompanying pageant
showing the evolution of the Flag, which can be
easily adapted to form'the theme of the whole

program. Of course, to give this Elks’ program a l

proper setting, it is necessary to have the help of
the other organizations as well as that of the

young people of the community. under the guid- '

ance of the Alameda Recreation Department.

It has been the unanimous approval of each
committee that the Elks’ ceremonial be used every
year. However, all other parts of the program

have been changed each successive year. Thus it

is, that the other participating organizations have\\

ample opportunity to introduce into the program “'1‘

ideas which make Flag Day an attraction.

 “by TEST:

State's Testing Cm. inc;
I a? " ‘
a,” + 42:; 7:,

3..

 

" WINTARK FEATURES

Cordura“ wound. Nine layers of materi«
a ale which produce proper aetiaump1":h
“» , serve aniferm shape” provide surer grip“
This rugged canstruetion also makes
WINTAHK basketbalis moisture~ proof.
washable and abrasion resistant.

‘   . ‘ egg. trademark urbuihmt (130.
' ""HiI-‘ullllm  , ,‘PJ .' . '. _ .1 | '

    
 
 
 
 

APPROVED BY
NAY’L FEDERA 110”-
AND ARMY-NAVY .

24 704494 34¢ to 8m!

Like all WINTARK Equipment, it is the first and
last word in ruggedness combined with perfect
playing qualities. Designed in cooperation with
State Athletic Associations, it inherits all the
qualities required to develop skill and accuracy
in play—plus the exclusive patented features
of CORDURA“ construction. This means—the
greatest durability and economy in all WINTARK
Basketballs, Footballs, Soccerballs and Volley-
balls. The popular choice with players and
athletic directors throughout America.

ORIGINAL PIONEERS

The WEAVER Scholastic Playball and the
WINTARK Rubber Covered, Cord Wound
Basketball, were the FIRST balls of this type.
introduced and successfully used.

WIHTARK Polity Wins for Dealers - Write for Our latest Catalog

Visit Us At  NO.  National Recreation Congress

 

  
    
  

SALES COMPANY
AMERICA'S IOREMOST ATHIETIC EQUIPMENT

 4216 w. OGDEN AVENUE - CHICAGO 23411.   

c . .03.

  
 

96 OFFICIAL RULES OF SOFTBALL—.4946 .

with these

HELPFUL
- BOOKS

as

 

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charlea Carlson . . . . . . . .3150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charlel Carl-on . . . 1.00
FASlIION ILLUSTRATION. by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKETCHES. by Charlotte Young . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING. by Charlea Carlton. . . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES. by Charlotte H.Young 1.00
CARTOONING IS A FUNNY BUSINESS. by S. B. Faier 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING. by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION. by Arthur Zaidenber; 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING. by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

' HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street New York, N. Y.

In 1945 the program was divided into four
parts preceded by a thirty-minute concert by the
American Legion Band, greetings from the Mayor
and an invocation.

Part I was the Grand Introduction Spectacle.
Marching uniformed units preceded the Flag on
the field: There was a ceremony of massing of the
colors followed by a vocal 5010, I Am An Ameri—
can, the Pledge of Allegiance, a tribute, and The
Star-Spangled Banner by a U. S. Naval Air Sta—

tion Band.

Part II, Processional Pageant, was highlighted
by dances in honor of Minerva. A narrator car-
ried the descriptive parts of the pageant.

Part III was introduced on the program with an
invitation, “California invites all Allied Nations to
participate in honoring the Flag of Our Country."
Folk dances of the Allied Nations were performed

by children of the schools and Recreation Depart~
ment.

The program ended with the Elks’ Flag Day
Ritual, the playing of Taps, the singing of God
Bless America, and the benediction. The produc-

-with in striking at a pitched ball, or if a fair hit

_ held by him.

'1
tion used 850 participants and attracted an audi—
ence of 8,000.

The secret of the success of this annual event
lies in several important factors:

  
   

l
t

First—The participation of veterans, fraternal
organizations, and the armed forces.

Second—The extensive participation of children
from the playgrounds and other youth groups.

Third—The backing of the City Council and the
City Manager, which makes Flag Day in the city
of Alameda, California, a civic and community
enterprisem—By Otto Rittler, Superintendent of
Recreation, Alameda, California.

Official» Rules of Softball—I946

(Continued from page” 86)

or other obstruction marking the boundaries of the
playing field shall be a two—base hit.
Sections I and 2, and the Note remain the same.

Rule 26. When the Batsmar! Becomes a Base-Runner

Add new Section 6. If a pitched ball, not struck
at, touches any part of the batsman’s person or
clothing, while standing in his position, unless in
the opinion of the umpire, he plainly makes no
effort to get out of the way of the pitched ball, in
which ‘case the umpire shall call a strike or ball in
accordance with Rules 10 and II.

Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 remain the same.

Rule. 27. Entitled to Bases

Section I. If, while the batsman, he becomes a
base-runner by reason of “four balls,” or FOR BEING
IIIT BY A PITCHED BALL, or for being interfered

ball strikes the person or clothing of an umpire or
a base-runner before touching a fielder; provided
that, if a fair hit ball strikes the umpire after hav-
ing passed a fielder other than the pitcher, or having
been touched by a fielder (including the pitcher),
the ball shall be considered in play. Also, if a fair
hit ball strikes the umpire on foul ground, the ball
shall be in play.

Section 2. If the umpire awards to a succeeding
batsman a base on “four balls,” or FOR BEING HIT
BY A PITCHED BALL, or for being interfered with
by the catcher in striking at a, pitched ball, the
base-runner is 'thereby forced to vacate the basth

in

Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, and the Notes
remain the same. '

RECREATION

 
      

GULF

:SANI-SOIL-SET

Controls DUST
I Quickly and effectively!

      
  
 
   

' t ' i
t (lion drill at South 
l 'wr LOWCII, Mass. 
‘ fontrolled effec- 2:12;: 3:2,:
(with Gulf Sani- 
-  Note the clean, in

appearance of

0|

  
 
    

3135 and shoes.
:‘n
:'.
  SanzLSOiLSBt 1'5 can or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly and
' uniformly.
to practical answer to your ' Saves Maintenance Expense—Gulf Sani-SOiI-Set prevents
 "'— ~ the growth of grass on areas treated, and minimizes dust
l“ dust diznojl‘znce P706167”)? annoyance and expense in near-by houses, stores, and
laundries.
_ P Write today for the booklet giving complete informa-
 ‘Nenive—Gtilf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust annoy- tion about this modern, proven dust allayer.

 ompletely immediately after application. No long
g periods are necessary before the ground is ready '
. The dust allaying effect is accomplished by the
of the compound in adhering to and weighing
to dust particles. In addition, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set pos-

e valuable germicidal properties.

sling ——Because of its extremely low volatility and
labilin in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains effec-

; for long periods. One application per season or year
Silally suflicient.

thinned—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing, easy

 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30. Pa.

Please send me. without obligation. a copy of the booklet. "Gull
Sani-Soil-Set-the modern proven agent for controlling dust."

Name

Title

 

 

 

 

98 CO-RECREATION GROUP, MOUNT VERNON, N. Y.

 

DIAMOND
SUPER RIN‘GER

Perfectly balanced‘for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.

A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard OEcial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and omcial
Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

46” GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

Co-Recreation Group

Mount Vernon, N. Y.

By R. W. CAMMACK

Superintendent of Recreation
Mount VernonI N. Y.

IN OCTOBER 1939 the Recreation Commission
thought the younger teen-age boys and girls
would like to have a game night together in the
large gymnasium (60’ x 90’) of the Washington
Jr. High School, centrally located one block off
the main street. A juke box was borrowed, four
ping-pong tables were brought in, a shuffleboard
set was obtained, a badminton net set up, two ring
toss games made and a number of benches were
placed near the walls of the gym on which a few
checker and Chinese checker games were placed.
Coat racks were also placed in one .corner of the
gym-

An announcement was made at the Jr. High
School assembly and the first co—recreation night
was held on Friday night, November 8, 1940 with

I‘visors nip any gambling attempts early in the

   
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
    
 

fifty youngsters present”. The lower age limit w .1
set at I 3 years or the eighth grade. The num
of boys and girls attending were 'about equall ‘
divided. No membership enrollment or membe
ship fees were required.

Three supervisors were employed, a man at th
door and a man and a woman on the floor. Th '
two men are needed to' set up the ping-pong table .
and benches, and to move the juke box to and fro 
the gym storeroom. The gym is open from 7:3
to 10:30 on Friday nights. The man at the doo ‘
keeps out younger children and carefully check
the number of boys and girls who attend. Th
supervisors on the floor never attempt to condu
any sort of a program. They only see that goo
behavior is maintained, and that there is a fai
rotation of players at the ping-pong tables, bad "
minton court and at the other games. '

Attendance Records
Average Attendance Total

Year Sessions Per Session Attendance ’
1940 28 108 3,026
1941 15 106 1,590
1942 12 69 323
1943 18 97 1,748
1944 22 232 5,105 -
1945 19 221 4,199

It will be noted from the above figures (excep
those for the first year) that the average attend .
ance was highest in the years when the greates
number of sessions were held. Detailed attendanc
records show that when the regular Friday nigh
schedule is interrupted for other events held in th
gym or in the adjoining auditorium, attendance 0 r
the following Friday night falls off decidedly. Thi
bears out the already well known importance 0
regular uninterrupted sessions. These Friday nigh
sessions start about November I and continu
until about May I.

Experimenting

In the fall of 1944, as an experiment, two bridge
tables were set up on one side of the gym. Check-
ers were placed on one table and a deck of cards
on the other. The immediate demand for seats at '
these tables decided us to add three more. Now
five tables are in continuous use, surrounded by
players and kibitzers at their games of checkers,
Chinese checkers, hearts, and “breesk,” an Italian
variation of hearts. Continuously circulating super—

game. It has been surprising to see how many\
. k
checker games go on between the young people"

straddling the benches. ‘

RECREATION ‘

. . . . for describing tbe bigness of

Recreation and
the Total Personality

by S. R. Slauson. You [save read an excerpt from it as
an article in tbe Marcb issue of RECREATION. It is a
pulling togetber and integration of tbe insigbts of
mental bygiene, education, psycbology, and sociology
as tbey apply to tbe day-to-day job of recreation lead-
ers. It is a defense, a critique, an analysis, and a

practical boob. Available at all bookstores for $3.00
or from tbe publisber.

Associarion Press
347 Madison Avenue New York I7

 

MAY 1945

100

RAMIJc

lrado-Mari Reg. U. 5. Patent Office

AMERICA'S No. l SWIMMING POOL ENAMEL

'I'wo indispensable. products for
swimming pools to insure Maximum
Beauty, Visibility and Protection:

RAMUC Enamel imparts a tile-like,
easy-to-clean Finish which does:
not chip, crack or peel. Applied
like paint.

EXALGAE prevents algae growth
in pools. Economical and easy to
use. Keeps water sparklingly
clear at all times.

For complete information, write to

INERTOL co., INC. o DEPT. R

1470 FRELINGHUYSEN AVENUE
NEWARK 5, NEW JERSEY

Western Branch:
64 South Park:~ San Francisco 7, Calif.

EXAlGAE

Trader-Mari Reg. U. 5. Patent C'ch

A NEW. SAFE, EFFECTIVE ALGAECIDE

 

In contrast with most teen-age centers, only two
boys showed an interest in soft drinks or refresh-
ments. There is a small kitchen room adjoining
the gym where these can be prepared and served
if desirable. No smoking is permitted in the
building.

Boy and Girl Reaction

In response to some questioning by one of the

supervisors in March and April 1944 the boys and

girls indicated that

they liked ping-pong best,-

the juke :box and dancing next,

the 15- and 14-year—olds felt there were too many
young (13-year-old) “kids” there,

nine of the group would like a club system adopted
and nine would not,

° they want better records and more ping-pong tables.

A very interesting reaction to the question as to
whether this group would rather meet in this
school gym or in Teen Town quarters, completely
separate from the school, was observed in May
1945. The school gym was not available for four
Friday evenings and the group was shifted to
Teen wan which was used by Teen Town mem-
bers (age 16 to 20) and equipped with a snack
bar, billiard table, juke box’ and two ping-pong
tables. Attendance at these meetings dropped more
than half—to I I 5. The boys and girls were noisier

NOTHING VENTURED—.VOTHI.VG GAINED

and rowdier and begged to get back to “their”
gym. \Ve were more than pleased to grant their
wish and returned them to their quarters in th
school where they have resumed “their regula I
Friday evening schedule. '

Nothing Ventured—Noihing Gained
' (Continued from page 74)

games were organized, competition between the
villages was keen and an excellent swimming pro-

gram of instruction and exhibition for both boys:

and girls was established. All available volunteer:

help was utilized in the swimming.instruction and 
the playground supervisors spent many watchfqu
hours with their charges on the beaches. Since

then the number of playgrounds has been increased
to four, and Swings and see-saws (put up by vol-
unteers), junglegyms and slides have been added
to their equipment. These are available during the
regular school session also. Handcraft is varied
and plentiful. The playgrounds combine at the'end

of the season for a town-wide program which has ,
covered variety shows, plays, a children’s min-l

strel and—last year—a circus which was attended
by 800 people. In 1945 two boys’ directors, each

supervising playfields in two villages were hired I

instead of the one director the previous year. This
plan seemed more adequate because of the dis-
tances to be covered. Playground supervisors are
teachers, student teachers or in one case the
mother of a grown family, paid by the Association
and directed by the Superintendent of Schools as
committee chairman. Baseball leagues and Field
Days are accepted facts.

Youth Centers

Four Youth Centers, held one evening each
week, two in school buildings donated by the
school department, one in the fire company build—
ing and one in a hall owned by the mill are suc—
cessfully completing their second season. These
too were organized by a volunteer worker who
has “followed through” during the entire time of
their existence. Other adults in their own com-
munities carried the load the first year, but a paid

director now oversees all four by holding them on .

different nights.

The young people are organized and their com- .

mittees are active. Each week the hostess chair-

l

man invites a couple to be chaperones, from a ;

selected list approved by the adult committee. The \

weekly dues cover the cost of a bottle of coke,

RECREATION

 

THIS DAY 15 OURS 101

   

MW...”

9

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

It takes plenty of “know how” to make a
softball for today’s stepped-up play. Wilson
designers and craftsmen have it—as thou-
sands of coaches and players know. That's
why you see Wilson softballs in preferred use
everywhere. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York and Other leading cities.

 

 

 

cookies, or a sandwich or any other attendant ex-

penses. Juke boxes were purchased for each cen- '

ter, except the one in Esmond, which was bought
and loaned by the mill. About once a month a
three’ piece orchestra is hired for a regular dance,
both modern and square dancing—and the admis—
sion fee is raised slightly, so that the additional
cost is covered.

Some program which' will include both parents
and children will soon be held in the Town Hall,
in addition to the free band concerts which have
been given on the school and Town Hall ground.

The Board

How was the board selected? From interested
laymen, the clergy, the P.T.A.’s and persons
actively engaged in putting over this program, al-
though none had any previous experience in the
recreation field. How many people does that in-
clude? ,Ab0ut fifty. Who has stood 'all the criti-
cism, the discouragements, has fought and over-
come the obstacles which could not be overcome?
Those people who have a vision of a bigger and a
better life for their community and who believe
that “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least
of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”

MAY 1946 -.

This Day Is Ours

(Continued from page 67)

ENGLISH SPOKESMAN: Although we come from
different countries, Canada is our new home, so
we play many games together—like this one—

“A Hunting We Will Go.”
Oh, a-‘hunting we will go, A-hunting we will go,
We’ll catch a fox and -put him in a box
And then we’ll let him go.
(Applause)

(As Canadians return a boy from the American
group comes tapping out and up to the Narra-
tor.)

SOUTHERN GROUP SPOKESMAN: Good evening,
811'.

NARRATOR: Good evening to you. Where do you
come from?

SOUTHERN GROUP SPOKESMAN: From'Dixie, sir,
with'my friends here. We bring a dance for
Peace.

' (Group Tap Dance)

NARRATOR: Once our people crossed the eastern
hills and the mighty Mississippi to the endless
western plains, and when they had by force and
will passed the cruel desert, they found reward
and happiness in the golden gate—out west.

102 GROWTH THROUGH THE ARTS

GYM MATS— PADS
BOXING RINGS

designed by “pom, and. by owlomd work-u from
quality ual-rich and MM Jud to which, our. on.
“ponder-1.1”” wholesale.

.
 NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT COMPANY
3‘. MARQUII’TI 0 FORD DU LAC. WII.

59114; or New (aid/09

WESTERN SPOKESMAN: This is a game played in
all pioneer homes and it is still played today out

west.
“Jennie Crack Corn”

(Applause)
NARRATOR: So, friends, this day of ours draws to

a close. Come, Peace, lead off the playmates
until tomorrow when the children come again
to keep alive in deed the man who gave us play-

grounds.
EXIT: All singing Marching Along Together.

Growth Through the Arts

(Continued from page 83)

“This morning when I woke up. . . . I did half
an hour of exercises and showed them to Mom.
She was very pleased and wants me to keep them
up. After lunch I painted the clay model I brought
home, and I also drew a picture of a band. It
seems the camp left me with a routine that it is
hard to get out of, and I don’t think I want to get

out of it.”

Judy says:

“With all the wonderful things I have done this
summer—the dancing and acting and art and music
and everything else, the beautiful scenery and the
friends I’ve made, the fingernails I’ve grown—the
English language seems awfully incompetent to
express what I really feel. All I can say is that
this summer has been one of the most wonderful
and important experiences of my life.”

These examples are typical of the expressions
of the group as a whole, a group to whom the ex-
perience of living, studying, and doing in the arts
was almost unknown. This group entered into the
setting up of a regime, constantly altering it to
make it work better, which could help them realize
art in a tangible way. They went through many
mental and emotional crises to reach the final end.
Doubt, apathy, resistance, and discouragement
were often their unwished companions, but they
took a few steps along the way of living that is

   

not for the weak and the tenderfoot. They came
to have respect and liking for this way of life
which, in turn, raised their own self-respect.

There was growth among them all in the con-
ception and meaning of art and in ability to work

without fear in the various mediums thus remov--

ing any feeling that they may have had that art
is something in which only a special few can
engage. Little by little they learned to free their
bodies and express feelings and ideas through
them. They learned to manipulate the materials
of color and clay and to mass shapes into forms
that meant something to themselves and others.
Making characters come alive in the imaginary
locale of the stage, the rhythms of spoken and
chanted word molded through the unity for form
——all these activities gave them a new sense of
honesty and integrity that comes with the happi-
ness of creatively experiencing. They learned to
go from one art medium to another with ease.

Though it had come in their own way and on
their own terms, there was social growth in the
ability to live a serene andfull day in company
with others. Broader understanding in the use of
cooperative techniques necessary to art and the
balancing of that with what sometimes seems the
ruthless and arbitrary demands of art provided a
new and more inclusive conception of the individ-
ual and the group. That there was a dehnite
social awareness, even though they did not want to
utilize it directly, is evidenced by these remarks
chosen at random from the roundtable discus—
sions at which we pooled our thinking throughout
the summer:

I’ve been thinking of the way the arts can help
to tight this war. '

We, the younger generation, carry on the world
of tomorrow. We have much to do.

Many children don’t have what we have. Why
are we so privileged?

We need tirsthand experiences if we expect to
do anything in art.

All kinds of life are necessary in art.

Linda’s words might well close- these comments

about what happened to the girls:

Pass beyond the surface scratching,
Far beyond to lights and fiickers
Of something
Unseen
But growing in force
And depth and numbers,
' Deeper, darker,
Clearer—yet always distant.

RECREATION

   
  
   
 
   
 
    
  
 
   

I l
Write for

l
. Call or Catalog

 

Formed all steel chute and stairs
l2' long. $69.00—l6' long. $|05.00

    
   

    
 

=.;. . _
.7 ’15

. 'h . b . I
.3 ' J- 
-. ‘V! .‘ _‘ .4“ ‘ 1 ’
u- . - I .
 Fl “
.4“ x; .. l
' ‘  ‘ ‘
ex A

Cat Walk-—-Combined Climber
and Health Ladder. $79.00 each

unit. Feur Units (as pictured).
$3|6.00

    

Four Boards. $56.00.

‘4-H Club Camp
(Continued from page 80)

arpen the joys of vigorous activity and awe, or
verence, to’ make more joyous the moments of
. andon to gaiety—all of these contrasts to inten-
p fy and to enrich living are basic in program
: nstruction.

A Little Awe

‘ So come to candlelighting. The campers are
I sembled by color groups in the amphitheater.
even form each group from the four “H’s” that
and for head, heart, hands and health. Together
ey make the four leaves of the clover that is the
ub symbol. On the steeply rising walls of hills
rrounding them, pines and tamaracks reach to

" ars that seem to hang in their branches. The
emmed-in sky is an indigo pool of unplumbed

' epth above. Now an adviser speaks, lighting his
ndle, whose symbolic flame comes from the De-
rtment of Agriculture of the United States.
ith his [light he ignites the candle held by the
presentative of the State College and of the

e_also gives his light, extending thus to all the

 

AY 1946

 

 

Fulcrum is part of the frame—

TOP QUALITY
LOW PRICES

tate Extension Service. To the County Agent ‘

.1-H CLUB CAMP 103

'Qme-lime

Litchtield. Michigan

, Famous industrial, safety and recreation designers bring you
l startling equipment improvements.
i

Immediate
Shipments

 

All steel swings-—-a|| steel hangers—all steel fittings.
Six seats, l0' above ground. $99.00—23/3" top—l7/3" legs—shipped

top rail assembled.

   

Pull-A-Way Merry-Go-Round, Ib' dia.. $275.00
Kids pump it around—mo accidents.

counties the knowledge it represents. The flame is
carried to each council member who carries the
light to others so that now the four “H’s” are
aglow. These in turn carry the spark to all as-
sembled. In the depths of the woods, in the black
velvet of night, more than a hundred lights are
sparkling with the beauty of fireflies. Campers
sing, Speed Away . . . with Your 4-H C lub Light.
Then a procession of campers singing Follow the
Gleam wends its way back to camp. Candle-
lighting is an impressive ceremony, a symbol ,of
the link between clubs and the larger forces of
state and nation, and a consecration to share with
others one’s privileges in fellowship 'and commu-
nity living.

And So to Bed

Thus camp falls asleep guarded by rising peaks,
filled with the peace and serenity that a day spent
under the sky can bring. Sleeping here are children
who have never been away from home before.
Some are from isolated farms who have never
eaten food except at the family gathering. For all
of them camp is a great socializing experience. It
serves as the first step to lead from the home circle
to the larger community of state and nation.

104 SCHOOL FOR CITIZENS

Evaluation

Thus through the fun of camp, the responsibili?

ties of camp and the enlarged social group that it
affords, we see rural youth aided in reaching that
maturity which is desirable, and essential for
members of a democracy. This maturity involves
recreational competence which is of even greater
importance in rural areas than in cities. It also
has to do with the extension of social tolerance
beyond the family and the small community with
its limited customs and outlook, to. a participation
in the larger community. Such a step is at least a
small beginning in moving toward understanding
.and tolerance of the many and varied groups in
our country. It is perhaps the first step toward
that tolerance and understanding of the peoples
of the nations of the world which is the goal for
.all of us. And finally, the 4-H Club Camp is aid-
ing in the development of maturity in the realm of
citizenship. Toward this end, it is aiding rural
youth to be articulate, “to speak up in meeting,”
-to acquire the tool of organization which is neces-
'sary for effective participation in the life of a
great nation today.

We can say farewell to camp with the tug that
comes to all who have worked and played joyously
together ;- and with the satisfaction that a sense of

.achievement gives.

School for Citizens
(Continued from page 85)

whatever, she and her daughter arrived safely in
New York with all the old family possessions that
Mr. X. had left in Finland.”

It is in solving problems such as these and
others like them that the Citizenship Bureau is
each year helping citizens and c'itizens-to-be adjust

their lives for their greatest happiness and ad-.

vantage.

Alumnae Association

In 1930 the Citizenship School Association was
formed. Graduates of the school were eligible for
membership. By 1945 the roster of members held
"500 names. The members represent forty-two dif-
ferent nations. They have laid out the objectives
for their Association along the. following broad
"lines:

“To promote citizenship and continuing adult
education; to unite women of all nationalities in a
-close bond .of friendship and understanding and
.for mutual improvement.” '

Meetings of the Association are held monthly.

Members have formed their own drama gro
whose productions are often booked by other 0
ganizations in the community. Members go i
pilgrimages to the State Capitol, to Washingto
D. C., and to other places of national or historic i ‘
terest. At each meeting honor guests are tho
women enrolled in the school who have succes
fully passed citizenship examinations. Other 0 ‘
ganizations in Highland Park take pride in co
tributing something to this very special kind 1"
alumnae association. The City Council, the Publ A
Schools, the D. A. R., the P. T. A., the Highla ;
Park Women’s Club each plans one program eve
year for the regular monthly meetings of the A '
sociation. ‘

Not least important among the functions of th
group is their activity in recruiting new membe :
for the Citizenship School. Here men and worn '
may take courses in literacy and citizenship, m
participate in vocational, cultural and home—ma
ing classes, may learn the newest laws governin '
immigration and naturalization, may find in le 
sure-time classes the means for refreshing ol
learning or for orienting themselves more succes
fully to a new environment. There are eightee
centers where classes are held and to them corn
literally hundreds of pupils. (In one year the en
rollment was 2,500!)

The pupils have special handbooks prepared fo
them by the staff of the Bureau. At their 0 r
request these handbooks‘are purchased by the stu
dents at a cost of 25 cents each, and this mone
reverts to the budget for the school.

o
I
l

Through the school boys and girls who hav
but recently come to this country may be tutore
in English. Young men and women, forced by cir .
cumstances to leave school before graduation, ar
offered correspondence courses prepared under th
auspices of the University of Michigan and over i
seen by the principal of the local high school.

New Citizens Day

“I Am An American Day”. is a rather specia
occasion in Highland Park. .Each year a progra ‘
of speeches, music, dramatic presentations or mo
tion pictures is given in honor of the new citizen
who—in the year preceding—have I passed thei
citizenship examinations and taken their oath to
uphold the Constitution of the United 'States r"
America. The Citizenship School Associatiorf‘.
helps finance these programs which are partici-

RECREATION

RECREATION, DECATUR AND RADIO - 105

 

. '. . Bowling in a GENERAL STORE!

This is an actual photograph taken in a General Store in Mill Village, Pa., . . . you can be
sure to find a Two-Way Bowling Alley wherever people congregate for fun and relaxation.
Two-Way Bowling Alleys are located in Schools, Church Centers, Boys’ Clubs, Community
Centers, Bowling Centers, etc., all across the country. Two-Way Bowling is so extremely

popular because it is played and scored exactly the same as regulation bowling . . . yet a
Two-Way Alley costs a fraction of a regulation alley. WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE

LITERATURE AND COMPLETE INFORMATION.

*TWO-WAY BOWLING COBP.*

“4 EAST 32nd STREET 0 Telephone LExing’ron 2-8828 0 NEW YORK lb. N. Y.

 

 

 

‘ pated in by the Association and by the schools and

churches, the Scouts' and the D. A. R. and the
a Women’s Clubs, and the P.T.A. of the community.
.For this is a high point in the activities of the
Citizenship Bureau and all the community regis—
ters its pride in the occasion.

Summary

The Citizenship Bureau is a project of which
‘ the Highland Park Recreation Commission may
:well be proud. For two score years it has been
I giving to the community’s citizens and citizens-to-
' be real help and true insight into the life of an
{American city--—which is to say into the normal
l life of everyday men and women in these United
: States.

' MAY 1946

Recreation, Decatur and Radio

(Continued from page 70)

informed. It must make a definite impression on
the listener. He must not be confused by a col—
lection of facts. Simple and compound sentences
are best for this. Adjectives should be avoided, a

few adverbs used instead.

Evaluation

Naturally, there were many mistakes and short-
comings in these initial efforts. There is still much
to learn about radio programming.

It takes real sustaining power to plan, collect
the material, write the script and maintain a pro—
gram of this type three times a week. A quarter-
hour broadcast of this type requires about ten

106 TO HONOR JOSEPH LEE

 

STEEL Con

36” Wide -—_78%” Long
24” High Above Floor

-— TUBULAR —
Fold Under Ends

   

 

    

  
  
   
  
   
 
   
 

0

These are used Army HOSpital Beds -—-
But Are in Excellent Condition

l
Price $3.50 each, F.O.B. Chicago
i

Please Include Money Order
or Check with Order

Also Shipping Instructions

WINNER SALES- CO.-

3400 W. ARMITAGE AVENUE

I CHICAGO 47 , ILL. l

pages of double-spaced typewritten material. That
means thirty pages a week. A question to be
answered before such a series is undertaken is
“Do you have the time and the talent to stand up
under the demands of such a radio schedule?”

The evidence indicates that this series gave many
people a better insight into the summer program
of the Recreation Department. Good will was
created. The value of reports on the day-to-day
recreation activities was proven by the fact that the
public became an interested party.

This experiment of Y our Recreation Reporter

supplies a pattern of the potential service that can
be rendered through radio.

Sandia Mountain Camp

( Continued from page 78)

down a water course with great care, the older
ones thought that this was the real thing they had
been expecting.

After so much exercise the lunch topped off with
watermelon was eaten with gusto. Already it was
time to break camp and prepare for the return to

Albuquerque. Some ran down to the spring for a.

last drink of pure mountain water, others tried a
last “flop” on their pine-needle beds.

     
     

‘on July 27 to commemorate the birthday of Josep y

  
 
   
  
    
   
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
    
   
 
  

Home Again

This time when boarding the bus no attenti
was paid as to which group was which, for all n
were friends. But the exercise of the hike and t
lack of sleep the previous night combined to ma
them drowsy and almost all went to sleep. It w
a tired group of boys who climbed out of the b
but an enthusiastic one. “When can we go again
Juan’s piping voice wanted to know.

The camping trip showed there was a delin'
need for this type of recreation activity in t 
community. The mountains, although so near, h
hitherto been out of the reach of these boys. ‘
plans were immediately set in motion for the ne
summer. A lead-up program of bikes and d
camps with talks and moving pictures on diff
ent subjects such as The Forest, Geology, Fi
Aid and Hiking, followed by several overnig
trips and a week’s outing is being planned for t
summer of 1946.

Negotiations were also set in motion for
permanent camp site in’the Jemez range of mou
tains in order to supply more adequately the Iar
numbers interested in this form of recreation.

To Honor Joseph Lee

(Continued from page 65)

“Following the return of the children to the
playgrounds, organized games and competitio
were held at every recreation center.

“Since the celebrations were held at centers .
over the city, no attempt at competition or co
parison between the centers was made, but repor
from supervisors indicated good crowds and cm I

siderable interest in the special programs in hon
of Joseph Lee.”

“At Sheboygan, W i
consin, along the beaut' '
ful shores of Lake Michi l
gan, a city—wide san
Sculpture contest was he] '

Bulletin of Department
of Public Recreation.

Sheboygan. Wisconsin.
Population 40,638.

 

Lee. The north side bathing beach was the loca
tion chosen for the many scenes. These include
castles, forts, army camps, miniature villages, ani
mals, boats, (one big enough to sit in!) bridges 7
and even a nine-foot Uncle Sam resting on hi
back. This huge outdoor studio, where artist
worked in the ordinary beach-sand, had many in
terested visitors watching the workers and lat?
commenting on the finished subjects before the
crumbled away.” i '

RECREATIO

 

THE VETERAN AS LEADER

107

Latest Films for Informal Education —

‘CAN I UNIS! NPR

"‘15 HF REAR? A
FRIEND 0F (AME ? OR
IS THISJUSTANACI?”

WIN! A SECREI? OR
DOES SHE {Ell EVERY-
THING SHE KNOWS?"

 

THE ART OF LIVING sames ”

To help teen-agers discuss personal, family, and social rela-
tionships, ASSOCIATION FILMS, (National Council of
Y.M.C.A.’s) and LOOK Magazine present the first two
films in the ART OF LIVING Series—

"YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS"
"YOU AND YOUR FAMILY"

lb mm. sound. I reel eachI with Discussion Guide

Rental: $|.50 each . . . Sale: $27.50 each
4 or more: $25.00 each . . . Other Subiects in .Production

"Junior Prom"

HDinner Party"

(table manners) (social conduct)

2% reels, in COLOR 2 reels, in COLOR
Daily rental: $5.00 each

F R E E ! “Gliding Wings” (Development, Production, and Employment of Gliders), 3 reels

ALSO: SPORTS . . . RECREATION . . . CAMPING . . . ENTERTAINMENT

“How to Conduct a Film Forum” guide and Catalog of Selected
Motion Pictures will be sent on request to Dept. “H”

Y.M.C.A.'MOTION PICTURE BUREAU

NEW YORK 17
347 Madison Avenue

CHICAGO 3
19 So. La Salle Street

DALLAS ‘I
I700 Patterson Avenue

SAN FRANCISCO 2
35l Turk Street

—________—____'__—_____——————J

Where Classics Are Hits

( C entimted from page 90)

M nsic on the Air, broadcast by Station WAVE.
The scripts are prepared by Mr. Whitney with the
assistance of Rita Ewing and Mrs. William Chand—
ler. He also serves as commentator on the half-
hour programs. One class of students is present
in the studio at each broadcast.

Without the wholehearted cooperation of school
officials, from the superintendent, Dr. Omer Car-
michael, down to the last teacher, the children’s
activities of the Philharmonic would not be pos-
sible. This is especially true of the radio series,
now an accepted part of the curriculum. '

This season the Louisville Philharmonic String
Quartet initiated a weekly series of free concerts
in the schools, and the children’s response to these
programs has been most encouraging. So, the evi-
dence piles up on every hand that the classics can
still compete with boogie, and more than hold their

OWE—Reprinted by permission from The Junior League
Magazine, February, 1946.

The January, 1946 issue of The Schmitt M nsic

MAY 1946

News carries the following note on music making
in the community :‘

"‘A symphony orchestra has recently been or-
ganized at Northlield, Minnesota, with Frank E.
Dale, Assistant Professor of Music at Carleton
College, as conductor; Miss Beatrice Lien, in-
structor in string instruments at St. Olaf College;
and Miss Elizabeth Ivanoff, string instrument in-
structor at Carleton College, are assistants and
conduct sectional rehearsals.

“The orchestra, numbering sixty-live, is com-
posed of students at Carleton and St. Olaf C01-
leges, advanced high school students, and adults
from Northlield, F aribault, and Owatonna.

“They plan a concert for February 16, featuring
the Mozart Haffner S ym phony and one in March,
when they will .play the Shostakovich First

Symphony.”

The Veteran as Leader
(Continued from page 60)
Keeping them happily adjusted will require a
great deal of tact and planning on the part of the
camp administrative stafi.

108 “AROUND THE CLOCK IN SONG”

30

‘RECREATION's
. . . Sudan-[deed

0 Effective May 1, 1946 the price of
RECREATION will be raised to $3.00 a
year, 35 cents a single copy because
of increased production costs.

 

There will also be many returning servicemen.
accustomed by Army procedure to rely on others
for decisions. They will have to relearn to make
decisions for themselves as counselors. Properly
handled and stimulated, their innate leadership
qualities will soon come to the fore.

Directors will findsome of the veterans restless
at first, full of indecision and unable or unwilling
to follow through completely on camp projects and
assignments. Directors should anticipate these at-
titudes and thus plan to guide those individuals
properly.

In the military service a man is accustomed to
looking to his officers and leaders for help in dif-
ficult situations. It is only natural that veterans
should turn to their head counselors and directors
for help with their personal problems. Therefore
camp directors and administrators should come to

camp adequately prepared to guide and counsel
these ex-servicemen.

One of the most difficult tasks facing employers
will be that of placing disabled veterans and their
vocational adjustment. Limited space prevents
elaboration of this question here. Suffice it to state
that employment of the disabled requires selective
.placement—-a careful matching of the physical re-

quirements of the job to the physical capacities of
the worker.

r Re5ponsibility of the Field of Social Work
to Returning Veterans

T 0 date, relatively little attention and effort has
been devoted to the employment of veterans as
camp counselors, group leaders or social workers,
and the conversion of their' military skills and
aptitudes to camping or social work or community
leadership. The successful employment of veter-
ans and their readjustment to civilian life is the
responsibility, at least in part, of social agencies—

as it is of the fields of industry and government.
It is only through sympathetic, intelligent under-
standing and proper coordination and.planning on
the part of all concerned—community, industry,
government and social agenciese—that the great
majority of returning servicemen can take their
deserving place in society as useful and valuable
members and citizens. It is going to take patience
and fortitude, humane counseloring, tact and care—
ful planning to give the veterans a' responsible
place in community life and make them feel sin-
cerely that they are wanted and needed.

"Around the Clock in Song"

(Continued from page 71)

sings, mixed musical programs in churches, special
musical programs during church services, (all on

“the theme “Worship Through Music”) tower music

recitals over the tower amplifiers in churches, the
P.T.A. and school music programs, programs
given at clubs either for the membership or for the
public and several radio programs.

Main Event

But the biggest event of Music Week, the one
most truly community-wide in nature, was the
pageant. “Around the Clock in Song,” written
especially for the occasion by Miss Helen L.
Miller, who writes and directs a children’s pro-
gram over York’s WSBA, is the author of chil-
dren’s poems, stories and plays and of numerous
other pageants. The pageant was directed and
narrated by Otis B. Morse, Program Manager of
WSBA, and an active member of the York Little
Theater. .

The curtains opened for the pageant to show a
simple and effective background. A beige backdrop
threw into relief a great clock designed by a junior
high school art instructor. As the pageant pro—
gressed the huge hands of this clock were moved
about its face to show the passing day. On either
side of the clock hung large musical symbols done
in purple.

The Theme and Its Variations

Miss Miller took as her theme the story of life
during one day in York. The pageant opened with
the awakening of the city at 6 A. M., illustrated
by Oh, What a Beautiful Morning, sung by a
soloist and an industrial chorus. .The narrator told'\
of the beauty of a day in America, and there was If
another chorus number.

RECREATION

    
 

The hands of the clock were moved to 7 A. )1.
nd industry was shown beginning its morning
lift, with a number by a second industrial chorus.
hen at 9 o’clock the opening of the schools was
lustrated by a first grade toy symphony orches-
a, a grade school chorus and a teen-age octette.
he significance of music during the noon recess
'as shown in song and dance by a third industrial
lant chorus. The clock moved on to 2 o’clock when
e women of York were busy with their volunteer
ctivities, with music by the nurses’ chorus of the
. 'ty hospital.

At 5 still a fourth industrial chorus appeared,

i llowed an “hour” later by a fifth. At 8 P. M.
r Down at the T.A.C.” was enacted by eight mem—
ers of the Teen-Agers Club, the T.A.C. orchestra
d the T.A.C. chorus. An industrial chorus
ain appeared at 9 o’clock, then at I I the Matinee

, ' usical Club presented a twenty piano ensemble,
e pianos being lent for the Occasion by the

' eaver Piano Makers of York. As finale, the
iano ensemble and the combined choruses of 350

' ices, all massed on the stage, presented a “Salute
- I the New Day.” All of the groups and individ-

AY 1946

 

This famous H 8: B Oval and the personal
autograph of a famous hitter written on
the barrel end are the quality
found on no other malte of bat.

“H’s your assurance
of the finest”—

“AROUND THE CLOCK IN SONG” 109

    
 

hall-marks

  

  

 
 
  

 

uals with a part in the pageant were given recog-
nition in the program.

To accommodate the largest possible audience.
the pageant was staged in the auditorium of the
city high school, which seats 1,700. Heretofore
adequate, the seats last year were filled to capacity
and hundreds of spectators stood in the aisles and

, rear and other hundreds had to be turned away.

This was for a single event during Music W eek.
The Kiwanis concert attracted 1,300 people two
nights earlier in the same auditorium, and the
churches and organizations staging musical pro-
grams also reported great success. '

There was over-all community cooperation for
the celebration. In addition to the newspapers and
radio stations, the churches, schools, war plants
and clubs and organizations gave “plugs” to the
various Music Week events and, not least impor-
tant, nearly every store and restaurant window
throughout the city and its environs boasted a
Music Week poster. These are some of the rea-
sons Music \Veek was a success in Y ork—it
couldn't miss.

110 THE REC—A YEAR OLD. CHILD OF PROMISE

Two Heads Are Be‘H’er Than One—

and More .Fun
(Continued from page 89)

others, and the sponsoring of a flower show or
handcraft sale in your area (they’re art, too)
public-spirited individuals will want to give you
assistance. If you find your expenses mounting
beyond your receipts, buy a painting from one of
your members and auction it off. You’ll probably
get as much as you need or more.

Exhibits

After painting a little, you’ll want to see some
paintings by other artists. You can learn a lot
from them. If no art gallery is near your town
you can do yourself and your community a ser-
vice by sponsoring an exhibit .by practising artists.
It needn’t cost you a cent. First find a location.
Hotels are usually willing to give space. Write to

the art teachers or semi-professionals in your area '

Offering to show their paintings—better limit the

number per exhibitor—provided they pay trans- ‘

portation and a dollar entrance fee. The fee will
meet the expenses. To entice them, tell them you
will have a balloting of the “popular choice.” If
you can arrange to have the exhibit nearby when
a meeting or convention of some group is being
held, you can offer further inducement. Be sure
you give proper care and protection to the entries.
You could charge an admission fee to the exhibit
but that wouldn’t be in the spirit of your organi-
zation—a chance for anyone and everyone to en-
joy art.

Does any of this sound impossible? It isn’t. It
has all been done. In one small community a group
was organized just as described here, and within
two months was flourishing like the proverbial
bay tree. Without effort, the membership had
grown to thirty, insuring at least a dozen people
for each meeting. And that’s quite a good-sized
group to be working in one room at a time! Plans
were made for a series of exhibits—one for almost
every month—for the first year. The club arranged
a lending “library” of their paintings for the pub-
lic schools nearby. Some of the beginners even
sold pictures! Best of all, they realized all the
delights that Mr. Alger promised and more.

a

These pleasures are waiting for you, too. Find

your comrades-in-spirit. Get going.

' The Rec—A Year Old Child of Promis

.Rec but are called guests and asked to sign th

     
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
     
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
  

(Continued from page 77)
committee convenes monthly also, and from it.

Fifteen members five are selected to meet with th:
senior group.

Rules and Regulations

Definite membership regulations and hous
rules were established. Membership is limited tc
persons under twenty-five years of age and highei
than the eighth grade in school.’ No one who is
not a member can vote for unior committeemen.

A membership fee of one dollar is charged eack
high school'student if he lives in the borough. The
charge for out-of—town high school students is twc
dollars. In-town graduates pay two dollars also
and out-of—town graduates three. These are an~‘
nual fees. Persons who are not within the age re-
quirements are not necessarily barred from th

guest registration book when they visit the hall. By
this token, many returning servicemen were enter—
tained.

Local individuals and corporations that give $50
or more for the Rec are 'considered associate mem—j
bers of the Council. Persons and organizations
performing service are called honorary members.

The Youth Council now has in its possession'
copies of the Pennsylvania State Commerce
Board’s regulations pertaining to recreation. The
Council wants to start the borough on its Way to
inaugurating a recreation commission to handle
the needs of everyone in the community. Fore-
most in mind is the building of a center to house
service club rooms, a library, a gym, a swimming
pool, hobby workshops, and game rooms.

l
I
z

The Lansdale Youth Council is now benefite
by the Community Chest fund and is represented
on the town war memorial committee. It has it
own definite ideas as to what kind of memorial
should be erected in a town where, although vast
improvement has been shown, recreational facilities
are still sadly under par.

In twelve months of operation and 34,346 mem
bers and guests entertained, only five individual
were reprimanded for breaking Rec house rules
And, what is more important to the citizens o
Lansdale, the juvenile delinquency rate droppe
from IOI cases in 1944 to 28 cases in I945.

The Rec is strong on its first birthday and look
ahead to another good year.

REQTI

 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
   
  

’ Magazines and Pamphlets

I 1 Recently Received Containing Articles of
' I Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 2

.’ i MAGAZINES
each and Pool, March .1946

Swimming’s a Family Affair! t,
A Pool for Salinas

, . oliday, April 1946

“Go Ahead, Make Them a Story, Daddy,” Carl L.
Biemiller

Hare and Hounds, Russ Davis

mping Magazine, March 1946

They’re Camping in the Valley, Hugh Hoss
Have a Master Plan, Bradford G. Sears

Is Nature Work a Knotty Problem in Your Camp?
Dorothy Bliss

rents’ Magazine, April 1946
Plan Your Summer Program Now

PAMPHLETS

t dbooh on Shotgun Shooting

Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers’
Institute, 103 Park Avenue, New York City

. J cial Trapshooting Rules of the Amateur Trapshooting
. Association

Amateur Trapshooting Association, V andalia, Ohio

‘ tness for Today . . . and Tomorrow

' Canadian Physical Education Association, Winnipeg,
Canada

L creation—A Key to Good Community Building

i Monongahela Power Company, Fairmont,
I Virginia -

\Vest

,1 isconsin Recreation Association Bulletin, 'March 26,

1946

Wisconsin Recreation Association, Secretary’s Office,
3841 W. St. Paul Avenue, Milwaukee 8, Wisconsm

   
  
      
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

The Community .Job Master

(Continued from page 75)
tance, she heard that a neighbor needed to go
a hospital for an operation, and telephoned her,
ing what plans were made for the children.
ceiving the reply, “I, guess they will have to go
3 my mother’s, but she is not at all well,” Mrs.
called another neighbor, who volunteered,
 hy, I’ll gladly take care of them for a few
x *s, and then we can work it out further.”
' y this wholly informal method, and without
esirably mixing into other pe0ple’s business,
. X has become job master of her community.
le turn to her almost as if she were a public
yee. She has interested a few of her friends
'Iar work. One..of them makes it a point of
_ in touch with the teachers and principal

d

‘. MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

lll

 

Instructors can now devote their full
time to teaching the essential leather-
craft technics, such as design, tooling
and coloring. Hortoncraft Kits are ac-
curately pre-cut—require no time-wast-
ing preliminary work. Billfold illus-
trated only One of many practical

projects again available. Send today
for FREE project handbook. '

HORTONCRAFT

DEPT. R-5, 106 ANN STREET
HARTFORD 3, CONNECTICUT

 

 

of the high school and learning of any high school

' girls who seem discouraged or troubled. She then

finds occasion to invite such a girl to her home,
perhaps two or three times, discovering, if possi-
ble, whether there is any service an older friend
might render.

Whether formally organized or not, in many
communities there is room for the job master who
will bring together the community worker and the
job. The English book Fellowship Principles and
Practice suggests this course for churches:

“\Vhy should not each church have its ‘job
master,’ to find jobs for men and men for jobs—
or more than one where there is strong life and no
dearth of members whose services might be en-
rolled? May we not look to the time when there
will be a united team of men and women with such
responsibilities, covering all the churches and other
Christian societies of the neighborhood, with regu-
lar means for surveying together the needs of their
neighborhood, and recognized opportunities for
bringing those needs home to the consciences of
the churches and societies they represent."—l{e-
printed by permission from Commit}: Sam-ire
Aries, january-Fcbruary, 1946.

   

The Play Party Book

Edited by Ed Durlacher. Pictures by Arnold Edwin
Bare. Devin=Adair Company, New York. $2.50.

MR. DURLACHER has brought together thirty-seven sing-
ing games ‘for children which Mr. Bare has illus-
trated with charm. The carefully selected games and the
colorful drawings would in themselves make The Play
Party Book a highly desirable addition tO any library——
private or “institutional.” Add to these factors, how-
ever, the simple piano arrangements which accompany
each of the games and the book becomes a “must” for
anyone whose job indicates the use of these traditional
materials. The music is written without recourse to
multiple sharps and flats (one of either is the limit) and
so that “it may be easily played, sung, and danced to.”

Recommended.

Careers in Social Service

By Evelyn M. Steele and H. K. Blatt. E. P. Dutton, New
York. $2.75.

HERE ARE FEW PEOPLE working with young people who

are not at one time or another called upon for infor-
mation or advice about careers. To them Dutton’s Career
Books are valuable references. This latest in the series
which surveys the field o£ social service was prepared by
the authors in collaboration with Vocational Guidance
Research. It deals, among other things, with such per-

tinent factors as prerequisite education and experience, '

salary ranges and personality qualifications for many
positions in the wide field of the social services. A sec-
tion on the “National Recreation Association, Inc.,"
quotes from Recreation Leadership Standards.

Pay Dirt

By$,{).01. Rodale. Devin-Adair Company, New York.
3. ._

PAY DIRT is a book about “farming and gardening with
composts” which might well come under the heading
of “a controversial subject.” \V‘hether you are on one
side Of the fence or the other, or whether you prefer to
remain astraddle like the traditional Mugwump you will,
if you are an enthusiast for growing things, probably
want to read this book. It is, according to the publisher,
“the first book devoted completely to this way of farm-
ing and gardening to be written and published in the

United Statesf’

How to Make the Varsity

Byé Sstanley Pashko. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.
2. 0.

THIS BOOK. is addressed primarily to the high school
athlete. It is a discussion of the equipment, tech-
niques, fundamentals, strategies, physical requirements.
training, and sportsmanship that go into the making of
top flight athletes in football, baseball, basketball. track.

112

New Publications in the Leisure Time‘Field

There is a general introductory chapter of advice cal
“Making the Varsity” and a final chapter on “Health 
Training.” i
l
l

Treasury Series

A Young Boy’s Treasury of Things-to-do. A Bo
Treasury of Thur-gs-to-do, A Little Girl’s Treasury .:
Thltth-tO-do, A Girl’s Treasury of TMngs-to-do, l

Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publishing Company, a'

York. Each $1.25.

HIS GRADED SERIES OF ACTIVITIES for boys and gi

from 6 to 9 and from 9 to 12 are valuable beca .
they bring together in one series tested activities f
youngsters to do singly or'in groups and because th
require only the simplest materials, for the most p
common articles found in every home. Each of the seri
is carefully illustrated and in each the explanations a
clear and simple.

I

Tumbling for Students and. Teacher

By Samuel F. Harby. The Antioch Press, Yellow Sprin
Ohio. $.75.

HOUGH THIS IS NOT A NEW BOOK it seems worth me

tioning because of the increasing interest in tumbli
as a par-t Of a recreation program. The booklet is a ca
in] study of tumbling for individuals and pairs from t
elementary through the expert stage. It contains secti
on the adaptation of tumbling techniques for childr
and for girls and on the best ways to present a tumin
show. It is illustrated with photographs and with “stic
figures which are used diagrammatically to demonstr

stages in a tumbling stunt.

Ofiicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice~President and Secretary of the Boar
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y. -
HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass. \.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa. iv
CARL E. MILLI KEN, Augusta, Me. {fl

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif. in
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y. 1
JOHN G. \VINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

1 RECREATI

it.

-

