Play and Worship

MAN DISCOVERS there is something bigger than he is——-—he worships.
Every man—nearly—worships,
Has something in which he supremely believes.

 

After worship. daily living is perhaps the most important thing in the world.
Comradeship. affection is, of course, a part of such daily living.

 

After man discovers that there is something bigger than he is
He wants to do something bigger than he now can.

He wants to become stronger. abler, happier than he now is.
He wants to grow.

Man worships—man plays.

That is the kind of animal man is.

Man reveals himself most fully in his worship and his play.
In what he places first and what he does first when he is free.

 

Nearly every man not only has something in which he supremely believes. he
also has something he wants supremely to do.

It is of first importance to clear away what holds man back from living.
It is worth while to free man to live.

 

No man can give another man daily life.

Each man must find his own recreation.

Self-discipline is essential for permanently satisfying living.
Too much help from outside makes for less life.

Though we cannot afford to do too little for man's recreation
Neither can we afford to do too much.
No man should be pushed into living.

 

There is need, however, to create a free atmosphere that is friendly to living.

Together in the neighborhood and in the community we can care supremely for
living, for long-time living, for life deep, eternal, permanently satisfying.

We can recognize that the more man becomes man the richer his play.

The more man learns permanently satisfying living here and now. from hour
to hour, the nearer he comes to God.

There is no excuse for our keeping any walls that hold man back from being
fully the self he was meant to be.

And play is the great creator of personality, after worship the surest means of
growth.

The heart's desire is for play.

Little children play, live.

Boys and girls want to go on living.

Many families are built on daily playing, living together.

Many men and women go on living until they die. ‘

All men everywhere want to live, envy those who keep on living.

 

We must keep the element of play and recreation as well as worship in daily
living if we wish it to be worthy of being eternal.
We do not forget the words: '
"I am come that they might have life
And that they might have it more abundantly."

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

JANUARY I946

 

505

 

Photo by Horace Bridal

RECREATION

506

HE SCENE will be Atlantic City. The occasion
Twill be the Twenty-eighth National Recreation

Congress. The curtain will rise at 8 :15 in the
evening on Monday, January 28 in the Cambridge
Hall of the Claridge Hotel. This hrst meeting will
be one of three meetings when all the representa-
tives at the Congress will come together to hear
outstanding leaders in our national life discuss the
outlooks, the aims, the problems, the possibilities
of recreation in a nation no longer forced to “drag
its feet” by the unhappy circumstance of war. For
the rest of the five days during which the Congress
will be in session the delegates will come together
in groups to discuss the t0pics of greatest interest
to them. The schedule of these section meetings
follows:

Tuesday, January 29l I946, 9:l5 A. M.

Teen—age centers

Living memorials in the rcceation held

Service of state government bureaus in the rec-
reation held

Why some playgrounds are successful while
others fail

Recreation in rural areas

Recreation problems in communities of 15,000
or under

Recreation problems in communities of about
50,000

Tuesday, January 29. I946I Il:00 A. M.

Training recreation workers (in colleges)

Recreation services for women and girls

Activity problems (music and drama)

Use of school buildings for recreation

Recreation for older people

How to present a budget for recreation to appro—
priating bodies

Planning recreation buildings

Tuesday. January 29, I946, 2:30 P. M.

Teen-age centers
Living memorials in the recreation held

Service of state government bureaus in the rec-
reation held

Long-time planning in the recreation held
Recreation in rural areas

How to present a budget for recreation toappro-
priating bodies

JANUARY 1946

Forward in Recreation!

Wednesday, January 30I I946I 9:l5 A.M.

Service of federal government bureaus to state

government bureaus and to others concerned
with recreation

Why some indoor recreation centers are a great
success and others not

Training recreation workers, professional and
volunteer (in-service training)

Recreation services for women and girls

Activity problems (athletics'and games)

Planning recreation areas and facilities

Wednesday, January 30. I946, 2:30 P. M.

Securing war recreation buildings for commu-
nity use
Service of federal government bureaus to state

government bureaus and to others concerned
with recreation

Personnel problems

Long—time planning in the recreation held
Special problems in colored communities
Activity problems (outing programs)

ThursdayI January 3|, I946, 9:l5 A. M.

Personnel problems

Recreation in housing and real estate develop-
ments
Sharing recreation experience with smaller com-

munities near-by through conferences and in
other ways

Telling the story of recreation
State recreation associations

FridayI February I, I946l 9:l5 A. M.

Training recreation workers (volunteers)
Boys and girls and other clubs

Activity problems (arts, crafts and hobbies)
Recreation for disabled servicemen

Summary Sessions
Tuesday Night, January 29I I946

Summary of Industrial Conference

Teen-age centers

Living memorials in the recreation held

Service of state government bureaus in the rec-
reation held

Why some playgrounds are successful while
others fail

Use of school buildings for recreation
Recreation for olderpeOple

507

508 FORWARD [N RECREATION!

Wednesday Morning. January 30, I946

Why some indoor recreation centers are a great
success and others not

Training recreation workers (college and in—
service training)

Recreation services for women and girls

Recreation in rural areas

Recreation problems in communities of I 5,000
or under

Activity problems (music and drama)

Activity problems (athletics and games)

Planning recreation buildings

Planning recreation areas and facilities

Thursday Morning. January 31. I946

Securing war recreation buildings for commu—
nity use. Purchase of war supplies and equip—
ment

Service of federal government bureaus to state
government bureaus and to others concerned
with recreation '

Personnel problems

Long-time planning in the recreation field

Special problems in colored communities

Recreation problems in communities of about
50,000 .

Aetivity problems (outing problems)

How to present a budget for recreation to appro-
priating bodies

Friday Morning. February I, I946

Recreation in housing and real estate develop-
ments

Sharing recreation experience with smaller
communities near-by through conferences

Training recreation workers (volunteers)

Boys’ and girls’ and other clubs

Telling the story of recreation

Activity problems (arts, crafts, and hobbies)

Recreation for_ disabled servicemen

State recreation associations

In addition to group meetings there will be an
opportunity for individuals to discuss special prob-
lems with one of the specialists on the various
phases of recreation, for a consultation workshop
will be a part of the agenda of the Congress. There
will be, too, a collection of recreation material
through which Congress delegates will have an
opportunity to browse from time to time. Thurs-
day afternoon has been unscheduled so that dele—
gates who wish to do so may arrange their own

special meetings for carrying on, more or less for .

mally, discussions begun at- another time.-

Accent on Industry

Special sessions of the Congress will be held
January 27 and 28 to consider industrial recrea—
tion. Beginning on Sunday at a luncheon meeting
and continuing throughout Sunday afternoon and
evening and Monday morning and afternoon. Rep-
resentatives of both management and employees
will discuss such questions as:

What ‘éfi‘ect has the end of the war had on plant
recreation programs? '

Will excess profits tax revision affect the atti-
tude of management toward contributing to the
cost of plant programs?

What are proven methods for successfully bring-
ing management and labor together in the conduct
of recreation programs?

What is the optimum yearly per capita cost for
plant—centered recreation activities? What per-
centage of this should come from management?
Employees? Fees and charges? Receipts from
vending machines, etc.?

\Vhat are some successful methods developed
for cooperation between community and plant
programs?

Should all industries be encouraged to deve10p
plant programs or should they be established only
when necessary to supplement inadequate com—
munity programs?

To what extent should industries be encouraged
to provide and operate their own outdoor and in-
door recreation facilities?

What are the special problems of small in-
dustries?

What are the special problems of industries in
one-industry towns which conduct the community
recreation programs?

What are some successful methods for develop—

ing interest and participation on the part of women
employees ?

Can office and plant employees be brought to-
gether in the same activities or must their pro-
grams be organized separately?

These industrial sessions are an important
feature of the Congress, a feature whose need was
clarified by the increasing emphasis on industrial
recreation that came out of the pressures of the
war period. Any delegate to these special sessions
who can arrange to stay on into the‘ week of the
more general meetings will be very welcome indeed.

RECREATION

The Shape of Things to Come

MOST LEADERS 0F RECREATION, who in the war years have “built . .

. with worn out tools,” will

welcome the advent of the day when new equipment can be bought again. Delegates to the
Twenty—eighth National Recreation Congress will need no special invitation to the preview of

the new and improved implements of their trade which will be on diSplay in the Claridge Hotel'while
the Congress is in session.

‘5

Among the Congress exhibitors are the following:

Booih No.
l3 and I4

l8

I9
l5

5and6

I6
28

7
I and 2
20 and 2|

IO

26

22

25

27

24

23

II and I2

JANUARY 1946

Books

Association Press—c00perative book exhibit
A. S. Barnes & Company, 67 West 44th Street, New York 18, New York

Crafts

The American Crayon Company, Sandusky, Ohio

American Handicrafts Company, 45—49 South Harrison Street, East Orange,
New Jersey

Cleveland Crafts, Cleveland, Ohio
Educational Materials, Inc., 46 East 11th Street, New York City
Magnus Brush 8: Craft Materials, 108 Franklin Street, New York I 3, New York

Games and Equipment

The J. E. Burke Company, P. O. Box 367, Fond du Lac, \Visconsin

Association of American Playing Card Manufacturers, 420 Lexington Avenue,
New York

P. F. Frost, 117 Liberty Street, New York, New York

Litchfield Manufacturing Company, Litchfield, Michigan
MacGregor-Goldsmith, Inc., John and Findlay Street, Cincinnati 14, Ohio
The Paddle Tennis Company, 200 Fifth Avenue, New York 10, New York
J. E. Porter Corporation, Ottawa, Illinois

Sells Aerial Tennis Company, 207 Westport Road, Kansas City 2, Mo.

, \V. J. Voit Rubber Corporation, 180 North \Vacker Drive, Chicago 6, Ill.

0. S. Wilkinson Company, I400 L Street, \Vashington, D. C.
Wilson Sporting Goods Company, 2037 North Campbell Avenue, Chicago, Ill.
Wintark, Inc., 4216 West Ogden Avenue, Chicago 25, Illinois

Swimming
Beach 8: Pool, 425 Fourth Avenue, New York City

The Society of Recreation Workers will have Booth No. 3

509

lndoor Carnival

MOST INTERESTING, effec-
A tive and varied Indoor

Carnival is put on
monthly at the Army-Navy
U.S.O.-Y.M.C.A. Club in El Paso. The adults
participating in it enjoy it immensely, but it could
also be adapted very easily to teen-agers. Its suc-
cess was immediately apparent, and since its in-
auguration it has been one of the monthly high-
lights of the many program activities conducted
here. Each carnival takes on a different atmos-
phere and theme, depending on the month and
season of the year. The October carnival, for in—
stance, typified the Halloween spirit and the gym-
nasium where it is staged, was appropriately dec—
orated.

Waist-high booths, erected along the sides of
the gymnasium, leaving the center clear, are sim-
ple, wooden—frame, right—angle affairs. The divi-
sion between booths is made more complete by
hanging gaily colored bunting from the frame to
the floor, adding a pleasing color to the scene.
Each booth is numbered and contains a different
activity or stunt, which is clearly described on a
poster hung behind and slightly above the booth.

A volunteer worker has charge of each conces-
sion. He briefly explains the stunt to the Carnival
“customer,” conducts the activity and scores the
result on a card carried by the participant. These
score cards are obtained at the entrance to the Car—
nival and include space for the name of the partici-
pant, the number.‘of each booth, the score, and a
few general instructions. The number. of volun-
teers depends on the size of the Carnival. In El
Paso, various civic organizations such as the Lions
Club, Kiwanis, Rotary, take turns serving as vol-
unteer concessionaires and hosts. A good master
of ceremonies, using a public address system, livens
up the Carnival with his steady flow of patter,
banter, instructions, announcements, and gentle
coaxing to the shy ones to “try- their luck.“

As a participant enters the Carnival he is given
the score card on which the numbers of the booths
are listed consecutively. However, he is under no
obligation to “try his luck” at the booths in that
order. He is perfectly free to skip from one to
another as his fancy takes him and at each he is

scored on his “luck.” At the end of a specified"

510

By A. J. GATAWAKAS
Director. U.S.O. Mobile Service Club

El Paso, Texas

time-period all the cards are
turned in, the total score com-
puted and the winner declared.

The stunts and activities
chosen for the Carnival have, by a process of wise
and observant elimination, been selected for their
interest-appeal and minimum time-consuming
qualities. An activity that consumes too much time
tends to interfere with the smooth, steady progress
of the participants from one booth to the next. To
avoid crowding at any particular booth, considera-
tion of the time-element is important.

One attraction in particular deserves special con-
sideration here. As an ice-breaker and laugh—get-
ter it never fails. A large white sheet for a back-
ground, an innocent looking chair set in front of
the sheet and a bright light focused on it gives
added confirmation to the sign reading, “Your Pic-
ture Free.” A young hostess with a small camera
completes the scene. The unsuspecting candidate
is seated in the chair, and after a few minutes of
the usual “Watch the Birdie” adjustments, the
picture is snapped. The effect on the poser is elec-
tric—literally. The chair has been wired and the
hookup cleverly concealed behind the curtain. A
mild, though hilariously effective shock is the re-
sult. The hosts usually select their candidates at
the entrance to the Carnival and induce them to
have their pictures taken first—before their suspi-
cions are aroused. The initiated, meanwhile, watch
the regular reenactment of the scene with sup-
pressed anticipation.

A brief description and explanation of {he other
Carnival attractions follows. These may be
adapted to a particular situation, substitutions may
be made, or one or more may be eliminated en-
tirely.

Booth Number One—"Test Your Strength"

A pole two inches in circumference and five feet
long is laid across the backs of two chairs. The
pole is notched and each notch is numbered 25, 50,
75, 100. A ten-pound weight is hung in the first
notch. The object is to grasp the pole at one end and
lift it off the chair. At each attempt the weight is
hung in a higher-point notch, making it progres-
sively more difficult to raise the pole. The con-
testant is scored according to the notch number on

_ his-last successful attempt.

RECREATION

INDOOR CARNIVAL 511

Booth Number Two—"Chopsticks
and Marbles——or Beans"

Two swab-sticks are used to pick
up one bean at a time from the
table and deposit it in a plate.
Time limit—30 seconds. Score—
IO points for each bean on the
plate.

Booth Number Three —
llBean Bag Toss"

Five bean bags are tossed at a
bean bag board with numbered
apertures. Score—Total of num-
bered holes through which bean
bag enters.

Booth Number Four—
"Cutting Cards"

Three cuts of a regular deck of
cards are given each contestant
and total of cards turned up is
scored. From two to ten—at~face
value. Jack, Queen and King
count ten and Ace counts fifteen
points.

Booth Number Five —-
"The Big Blow"

Five lighted candles are set side
by side and a few inches apart.
The contestant stands the re-
quired distance from them and is
given three “blows.” For each
candle put out score ten points.

Booth Number Six—~"Shot t’ut'I

Each contestant holds an empty
milk bottle on top of his head with
one hand and with the free hand picks up one bean
at a time from a pile on the table and drops it into
the bottle. Time limit —- 30 seconds. Score two
points for each bean in bottle.

Booth Number Seven—"Leg Toss"

An upturned chair, with the legs pointing at the
contestant. Five r0pe rings are tossed at the chair
legs from a suitable distance and a score of live is
counted for each leg ringed.

Booth Number Eight—~"Giant Swing"

A small, rectangular frame, set Upright with a
chain hanging from the top center and a wooden
ball at the end of the chain. In the centerof the
base a tenpin is set. The object is to grasp the ball

1 AN UARY 1946

 

"Watch the birdie!"

on the chain (or cord), release it so that it passes
the tenpin on its forward swing and bowls it over
on the back or return swing. Two tries and ten
points for each knockdown.

Booth Number Nine—"Spearing Corks"

A number of small corks bobbing in a tub or
other container of water. The object: To spear
the corks with a pin. Time limit—~—30 seconds.
Score ten points for each cork speared. (The
smaller thecork, the more difficult to spear.)

Booth Number Ten—"Toss Playing Cards in Basket"

A small basket or paper carton is set at an angle
( Continued on page 552)

Recreation "About Faces"

HEN I was a child, “recre-
W ation” meant playing a

game. \Vhen I became an adolescent, opin-
ion said that “recreation” had come into its own.
It had become synonymous with physical culture
or physical education. Today, recreation has taken
on new' meaning and hence new life, for its very
interpretation gives it a universal appeal. The war
has done much to promote recreation and to make
it a field in itself—an important field and one that
interests all mankind.

Recreation in its new connotation is the act of
participating in one way or another in something
that one enjoys. The meaning of recreation cannot
be circumscribed, cannot be limited. You cannot
interpret recreation for me, nor can I interpret it
for you. I wouldn't dare, for I don’t know you;
you shouldn’t dare, for you don’t know me.

\V hen I first entered the recreation field profes-
sionally my professors imbued me with certain phi-
losophies. I had to discard some of these immedi-
ately when I got into action. Any recreation leader
must be flexible, must be broadminded, must be
understanding.

One finds in any large group several classes of
people according to general recreation classifica-
tions. The first group is composed of persons who
want to participate actively in “what is going on.”
It doesn’t matter what the activity may be, this
group will always take part. They enjoy partici—
patingi‘oir they have been so well trained in group
activity that they take part naturally. Generally
speaking, this group comprises most well-adjusted
people. A second group is composed of persons,
who have just as much fun as the first group, but
who never participate actively. They are the on-
lookers. In one hospital in which I was in charge
of recreation, it was our custom to use a group of
folk dancers for the entertainment of the patients.
In spite of the fact that nearly all of our patients
were orthopedic the recreation hall would be filled
with on—lookers who participated vicariously in the
fun. A third group is ever present and the recrea-
tion leader is ever conscious of it although it is a
small group. This is the group which will partici-
pate neither actively nor vicariously. It is com—
posed of persons who sit on the side-lines and criti-
cize adversely and audibly,L vvho’ pranCe in and out

512

By VIRGINIA FIELD SMITH

making as much noise as possi—
ble on each exit and entrance,
who try to throw cold water on the pleasure of
others. This is the minority group that has to be
reckoned with. Its members usually are having a
grand time and later their discussions of the enter-
tainment do much to publicize it. Psychologically
speaking, of course, the root of this group’s trouble
is its own desire to be the center of attraction and
its lack of ability to adapt itself to the norm.
Actually these manifestations constitute the recre—
ation of this group.

It would be impossible to enumerate here the
phases of recreation. I have found that a recrea-
tion hall is in itself a school for the leader. In one
hall a thousand men a day—men from every walk
of life—passed through its portals. I was con-
stantly amazed. Here recreation tools of all de-
scription were available. Activities of all types
went on simultaneously. One group played pool
or billiards all day long every day. Their interest
never seemed to wane. In another part of the hall,
other men played sedentary games— checkers,
rummy, casino, cribbage, pinochle, chess. Others
read. Some just sat. Some slept. Some played
swing or boogie on the phonograph, others played
classical music. Ping—pong and shuffleboard addicts
were active. The art corner was filled with sketch-
ers, water colorists, or “doodlers.” The craft tables
were thronged with those who loved manual arts,
men engaged in making things of aluminum, string,
shells. There was the inevitable group that marched
in and out, in and out, who did nothing except
criticize. Lying in the sun may be recreation to a
city boy but to a farmer lad who plows in it daily-—
well, it probably isn’t. Reading the “funnies” may
be recreation to a million Americans, but to me—
well, it just isn’t. Jitterbugging may be recreation
to the average bobby-socker but to the average
adult—well, it just isn’t.

There are, broadly speaking, only two types of
recreation: recreation in which one may partici-
pate and spectator entertainment at which one just
looks. Fortunately, those of us interested directly
in recreation as a field in itself believe that the
participation type is beginning to take precedence
over the spectator type, although it will never com-

(Continued on page 558)

RECREATION

l—WPT..-

NIH-

A Program Carries On.

SK A BOARD MEMBER of Seattle
Junior Programs Inc. why
she is proud of her organiza-

tion and her answer would undoubtedly be sOme-
thing like this, “Because we have been able to
bring six seasons of line entertainment to the chil-
dren of Seattle. Because we have helped to effect
a recognition of the cultural needs of our children.
But most of all we are proud because we didn’t
‘fold up' when war conditions made folding up
seem like the only sensible thing to do. Instead we
geared ourselves to a community at war and did
a job.”

\Vhat seemed like insurmountable objects in
January 1942 have actually proved stepping stones
to greater community service. The group of women,
mostly mothers, who incorporated as Seattle Junior
Programs in 1939 had really but one objective—
to introduce their children to the “living theater”
by bringing to Seattle the excellent productions
that were being toured by Dorothy McFadden’s
Junior Programs organization of New York. The
Seattle Junior Programs of the war years, with no
touring companies available, has encouraged the
development of local children’s theater, has given
help in bringing cultural experience and healthful
occupation to the children in the city’s overcrowded
war housing projects, parks and public school play
centers and has
sponsored the
only contest for
children’s plays
in the country.

Meeting a Chal-
lenge

M e m b e r s of
the Board well
remember the
emergency meet-
i n g t h at w a 5
called after Pearl
Harbor. The war
was very close to
Seattle in those
early days of
1942. The Japs
were well dug in

JANUARY 1946

By HAZEL R. PATTEN
Seattle, Washington

to their not too distant Aleutian
strongholds and the possibility that
they would swoop down on the
little defended Northwest was more than a dream
of alarmists. Under the circumstances was it not
advisable to dissolve for the duration, to write
Junior Programs off as a war casualty? Touring
companies could, of course, no longer make the
cross country trek and even if they could there
would be no way to show them as the organization
had been advised by the authorities that any large
gatherings of children in the downtown areas were
counter to the city’s defense policy.

Those women who met that day, conditioned by
weeks of darkened streets, the intermittent raucous
howls of air raid siren tests, of black-out curtains
and constant radio alarms were a little d'ulled to
their mission of bringing “culture” to youth. To
live, not the manner of living, was the primary
concern. It is little wonder that the “ayes” ap-
peared to have it when the question of suspension
of the organization’s activities was ready for the
vote.

It was then that Miss Helen had her say. Miss
Helen was one of the minority non-mother mem-

Junior Programs furnished leaders for craits

 

514 A PROCR.~1M CARRIES UN

bers of the group. Many years as supervisor of
primary education in the public schools had quali-
fied her to sit on that board. A mild, sweet faced
little woman, edging close to retirement age, she
had never before raised a minority voice in this
group. But there was a determined quality in the
voice that halted the final vote and asked for
further discussion, and there were surprise and
disappointment in the tone in which she spoke
when given the floor. “Ladies,” she said, “up to
now you have always shown initiative and vision.
You have talked about ways of enriching the lives
of our children, and, moreover, you have actually
done something about it. And now with the first
distant rumble of a gun you are ready to run and
abandon the foundations you have built. I am dis-
appointed. VVe all know that in a world at war,
and a world recovering from war, children need,
more than ever, those things of beauty that will
draw their eyes beyond the ugly realities of the
moment.” Miss Helen made one of the best
speeches of her life that day. Certainly it was ef-
fective, for when the final vote was taken there
was no single dissenting voice to the decision that
the Seattle Junior Programs should “continue to

function in whatever way possible to bring cul~
tural experience to the children of the community.”

Program at War

“Whatever way possible” became the question.
And it wasn’t an easy one to answer. No large
gatherings of children. No downtown theaters.
The. only possible answer was smaller groups in
residence areas. The first wartime season was
spent in experimenting. Actors and directors were
recruited locally. Several plays and ballets were
produced and toured to the school auditoriums in
various sections of the city. W'ar’s curtailment of
transportation made even this limited program im-
possible. The solution of the problem was a rather
obvious one—or, at least, so it seemed after events
had proved it successful. An agreement was en-
tered into with the community theater, the Seattle
Repertory Playhouse, to produce plays chosen by
the Junior Programs committee:

Seattle Junior Programs had had from its incep-
tion the wholehearted support of the Seattle Public
Schools. Due to the non-profit nature of the un-
dertaking the schools had even agreed to conduct
the ticket sales and had built up for the organiza-

Theater for the children of the community

 

RECREATION

 

A PROGRAM CARRIES ON

tion an audience of more than five thousand season
ticket holders. To accommodate this audience in

.the community theater, with its seating capacity of

430,‘ it had been necessary to extend the run of
each play, of which there have been four to a sea-
son, to more than two months with two perform-
anccs each Saturday. This meant sixty perform-
ances last season, every one to capacity houses
which saw with delight such plays as Little
Women, The Emperor’s New Clothes, Aladdin,
Radio Rescue, and Bobino. This season’s produc-
tions include Tom Sawye/s Treasure Hunt, The
Christmas Nightingale, and one of the prize win—
ning plays of the Playwriting Contest, Once U pon
a C lotheslfne, a delightful fantasy by Aurand Har-
ris, of New York City.

The idea_of sponsoring a playwriting contest
grew out of the realization, now that it was neces-
sary to find suitable children’s plays, of the terrible
paucity of material in that field. Contest rules
were set up with the help of Dr. George Milton
Savage of the University of Washington, who was
then Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
American Educational Theater Association. Two
hundred and fifty dollars prize money was appro-
priated by the organization. To lend added incen-
tive one of the country’s largest play publishing
houses offered to publish prize winning entries.
Last season there were twenty-nine plays submit-
ted, from almost as many‘states. Prizes were
awarded to three of the playwrights and one re-
ceived honorable mention. Because of the wide-
spread interest and the excellent results it was
voted to repeat the contest again this year and
from all indications many more manuscripts will
be submitted. Seattle Junior Programs feels that
if it can be instrumental in encouraging good
writers to contribute to the literature of the chil-
dren’s theater it will have justified its existence,

_. and the many hours of work its members have so

willineg given.

Meeting New Needs

Seattle at war was a feverish industrial center,
which called for the services of thousands of work-.—.
ers from all parts of the nation. The p0pulation
jumped about twenty-five per cent in a matter of
months. This meant a comparable growth in the
number of young people and a consequent over-
taxing of the personnel and facilities of schools,

parks and play centers. Furthermore, it brought

a new problem which the community :was. not
equipped to solve—the problem of children of thou-

JANUARY 1946

515

sands of working mothers in after school and vaca-
tion periods. New housing areas came into exist-
ence with populations equal to small cities—and in
these areas the majority of women, as well as the
men, worked in the war plants.

Seattle Junior Programs recognized a chal-
lenge in these conditions. In 1943 its members
volunteered to assist with a program of storytell-
ing, music and creative dramatics in several of the
housing projects. So much was good, but it was
not enough. In the summer of 1944 it was decided
to dip into the financial back-log of the organiza-
tion and engage trained leaders. Accordingly, at
four of the housing projects classes were estab-
lished in creative dramatics, music, and arts and
crafts. Leaders were also provided for drama
classes in eight of the public school play centers.

Results of this activity were considered suffici-
ently encouraging to justify a doubling of the
budget item for the summer of 1945. However,
the Recreation Department of the Seattle Parks,
under the direction of Mr. Ben Evans, secured
Lanham Act funds to carry on the work that had
been inaugurated by Junior Programs. Mr. Evans
asked, and received, the help of the organization
in procuring the trained personnel to carry on the
program. A new and very satisfactory instruction
method was devised; teachers of drama, art and
music made up a “team,” moving from housing
project to housing project, coordinating and cor-
relating their activities to produce a better rounded
and more meaningful program.

Relieved of expense in the housing projects
Junior Programs increased their help in the pub-
lic school play centers. The organization engaged
three drama teachers, trained in the Department of
Drama in the University of Washington, to work
under the leadership of the head of the Public
Schools Extended Services. in

Music

For three years Junior Programs has joined the
Junior Red Cross and the Seattle Park Board in
financing a continuation of school orchestra activi-
ties into the summer vacation months. The super-
visor of music in the elementary schools gathers
the young musicians together in several of the park
fieldhouses and, in spite of the many competitive
diversions that summer brings, produces an ensem-
ble that does great credit to his direction. One of
thelthings that keeps .the youngsters “on the job”

(Continued on page 558)

Parks and Recreation in the Postwar Period

'1‘ NO TIME in the past have we
A in the park and recreation field
had greater opportunity than we have now
to impress'on our communities the importance of
our park and recreation systems. We must get our
plans before the public—before our communities—
NOW. We must arouse their interest in our work
by inviting their suggestions, their thoughts, their
ideas on what in their opinion is most necessary
in the way of parks and recreation, best to serve
them, their children, and, above all, their loved
ones now in our armed forces.

The day of opening parks in March or April
and closing them in October or November is over.
Today our people look to the park and recreation
centers to serve on an all-year basis, and any sys-
tem which does not fill the need definitely, does not
recognize its full responsibility. Therefore, plan
your structures and your facilities, as well as your
employment setup, to serve throughout the entire
year.

Because we are. a governmental function, our
public is highly critical. We must operate our
business on a service basis, and the best relations
we can obtain with our public are based on what

we do and how we do it, and what we say and
how we say it.

Land the Starting Point

When we think of what we should do, we quite
naturally think first of all
of our plans. In the discus- r
sion on “Postwar Design . ,
and DeveIOpment” at the
meeting in Indianapolis,
Mr. Houston of Dallas,
Texas,’declared that “since
land is the starting point
in postwar designing, it
behooves each of us in this
business to start with the
over-all land plan. There
are rules recommending
practices and suggestions
arising from the planning
committee of the Park In-
stitute itself, from the Na-
tional Recreation Associa-
tion, and from other inter:-

516

By J. C. DRETZKA

ested organizations, on the distribu-
tion of park areas, and these rules
are rather easily applied if we are designing in a
new area before development has taken place. But
if we attempt to apply an over-all design to an
area already developed we run into complications,
with the result that we often find ourselves stymied
because of the excessive cost of finding sites at the
proper location. A factor in park design for mu-
nicipalities which, it seems, is commanding more
and more interest from the National Park Service
and from educators, is the retaining in public
ownership of large reservations around densely
populated areas.” '

There are individuals holding land which is not
profitable to them, and they will frequently exert
every effort to convert that land into parks. If an
over-all plan is made, it will prevent the possible
purchase of such lands.

In our enthusiasm to plan for the boys who are
returning, we must remember not to build beyond
our ability to maintain. As Mr. Houston stated,
“a financial plan of development should be fitted
into a financial plan of operation.”

Swimming

Swimming, either in pools or at beaches along

Parks for use in summer . . .

 

rqr‘

‘ curfew Oglebay Park

RECREATION

PARKS AND RECREATION IN THE POSTWAR PERIOD 517

rivers and waterways, is
now recognized as one of
the most popular recreation
activities. \Vhile some com-
munities have done a great
deal in the establishment of
this healthful sport, many
more communities should
give consideration to it. I
am certain that the return-
ing Serviceman, because of the emphasis placed on
the necessity of knowing how to swim, has been
impressed with the importance of that fact for he
is acquainted, to some extent at least, with the
great number who were not so trained in the past.
He knows that in the physical fitness program
swimming is of paramount importance.

In too many communities swimming is pro-
vided on the basis that it must pay for itself. It is
my opinion that if we carry that idea too far we
will only prevent a great many youngsters from
learning how to swim, whereas we should actually
be putting forth every effort to provide all children
of school age with the opportunity to swim. And
we should do so without forcing the child to incur
any hardship in order to learn because of the
imposition of a fee.

JANUARY 1946

In an address delivered before the annual
convention of the Illinois Association of
Park Executives. Mr. Dret-zlta, who is the
Executive Secretary
County Park Commission. asked the ques-
tion, "Where. in all of the postwar planning
which is now being done' do we of the park
and recreation movement have our place?"

Here. in condensed form. is Mr. Dretzka's
answer to his own question.

of the Milwaukee

s r a. . LP '
“A i' riff Haquaiiifwgz- ' 

In Milwaukee we have
Open'ed up swimming pools
in the heavily congested
districts, and our police have
reported that when these
pools are Open their prob-
lems during the summer
period are practically nil, as
all of the children seem to
expend their s'urplus energy
in swimming at the pools and beaches. We pro-
vide swimming for children in enclosed pools at a
charge as low as 3% cents by selling books of
tickets. We have free periods in the morning and,
of course, the lake beaches and wading pools are
free at all times. We feel, however, that this is a
good investment and a contribution to the control
of delinquency and vandalism and other problems
which are encountered by our Police Department.
Swimming classes are conducted three mornings
each week during the swimming season, and these
classes are very well patronized. There is no
charge for instruction.

For Picnickers
Our greatest opportunity in serving the greatest

. . . and winter

 

    

Photo by U. 3. Forest Service

518 PARKS AND RECREATION IN THE POSTWAR PERIOD

 

Space for picnickers

number of people is in providing accommodations:
*or picnickers and picnic groups. Much can be
done here which will not involve any great ex-
penditure of money but which will make many
‘riends for our park systems. And one thing that
you can give thought to in your postwar planning
is the erection of dance platforms in certain park
areas. There are great numbers of younger people
who do like to provide their own music, and if you
can accommodate them in this respect you will add
to their enjoyment. I find that the large indusrrial
picnics which formerly always used private groves
and picnic places are now coming into our public
parks, for apparently our accommodations more

nearly meet their requirements than do those of
the private picnic groves.

Gardening a Form of Recreation

Because we felt that we were assisting in the
war effort, a large number of us planted victory
gardens. People as a whole have become accus-

 

Courtesy Tufts College

tomed to their victory gardens and have grown to
realize how much fun it is to grow the things that
they can consume, so that any number of those
who took up this gardening project as a wartime
measure have now come to accept it as a recreation
activity suited to their particular age. In many
cases every member of the family—wife, husband,
and children—all are participating in the planting
and care of these gardens. 'This should be en-
couraged in our postwar period.

Botanical Gardens

An appealing feature, and one which almost any
community can afford, is a botanical garden. The
botanical garden is designed to give enjoyment to
the general public and to act as a constant source
of practical inspiration to gardeners. Demonstra—
tion of the proper use of trees, shrubs, and herba-
ceous material in relation to each other and to the
background serves as a guide which may be fol—

'( C ontimtcd on page 559)
RECREATION

The Arts as Recreation

00 LONG has recreation been
Tthought of as physical ac—
tivity—especially as sports
for the young. You who are
leading recreation programs do

' not think of it that way, but just ask the average

person. T 0 him recreation and sports are synony-
mous. The arts are over in some quite separate,
distant category.

And what a pity! People miss so much that
could be important to them and satisfying to them
if they also thought of art as “recreation.” But
they rule out music, drama, art, literature because
they sound high—brow; crafts because they suppose
crafts take some God-given skill.

The inescapable fact is that most people past
their twenties aren’t as competent in sports as they
used to be, and they grow less
interested as the years go by.
People over thirty comprise
most of any population and
there are always plenty under
thirty —— more than we sus-
pect sometimes—who are not
up to a sports program. If
these folks are not to be left
with the radio and the movies
and their cars as their only
leisure resources, then the
arts are a must. But the arts do not hnd their
rightful place in a recreation program just to give
something to people who can’t do anything else,
valuable as that may be.

Granted that no effort should be spared to have
physical well-being, over the sweep of time and
considering the widest implications for the com-
munity, the nation, and for people everywhere.
what is more important than the arts? Leonardo
da Vinci said, “A nation’s art is its soul.”

In the last analysis, when everything else is [or-
gotten, what remains is our culture. \Vltat we re—
member about a people or about an age is its art-w
the temples of Greece, the painting of the Italians.
the music of the Germans, the plays of England’s
ShakeSpeare. These are the works of men that
inspire us with respect and understanding. that
foster high goals of our own. Theirs is the mes-
sage that endures, not merely reminding us, of' ages

article entitled

JANUARY 1946

By PORTER BUTTS

Director of the Wisconsin Union and
Division of Social Education
University of Wisconsin

"The Arts as Recreation" was first pre-
sented as an address to the members of
the Wisconsin Recreation Association.
Because of the enthusiasm of those tirst
hearers of these wordsl the address is
reprinted here so that its message may
reach a wider audience. The author of
the article, Porter Butts, was quoted in
an earlier issue of RECREATION in an
"To Serve the

munity PurposeH (September,

past, but as a force present and
active, as a compelling sum-
mation of all the best lessons
that men have learned.

From the time of the first
elemental human activity, when the cave-man pic—
tured his world and his hopes on the walls of his
cave, creation and self-expression in rhythm and
music, pictures and words have been a universal
longing and satisfaction of men.

If we are to satisfy this universal impulse; if we
are to understand the pe0ples of other places and
times, when understanding is so desperately needed ;
if we are to win any distinction by which we will be
remembered ourselves, we’d better have the arts.

Who Will Do the Job?

It might as well be said at once that an art—
minded community does not
Spring up over night in re-
sponse to a call for art sup-
port or art activity, however
spectacular. The process is
slower than that. lNho is to
do the job and how? The
schools and colleges are cer-
tainly one agency. I do not
believe, however, that an en-
vironment in which the arts
will thrive can be created
mErely through the usual pattern of school courses.
The number who take art courses is too limited, the
period of influence is too short, and the approach
is too abstract. The music, art, and drama depart-
ments are often too pre-occupied with technique
to open up the question of the enjoyment of art.
The arts, if they are to have real significance and
vitality, must be identihed with daily living, some-
thing people want to have and to do right along——
not the occasion for classroom study or a rare and
unwilling visit on some Sunday afternoon to a
silent, hollow museum, to look over the shoulder
of a gloomy guard at the great, but untouchable
picture.

This is where the recreation agencies of the
community come in. I am not sure that I can say

anything that will be of the . slightest practical
value to you who are steering recreation programs.
Backseat drivers are not too helpful as a rule. But

Com-
I945}

519

520 THE ARTS AS RECREATION

it’s fun to be one, and as long as you have
given me the chance I will risk bringing
forward a few miscellaneous, perhaps ec-
centric, points of view to see what you
think about them.

Art for the Sake of People

First, let’s not call them “fine” arts.

That scares people. It means uplift, the
unattainable, the ivory tower, something

not for me. I don’t mind if we don’t even

call them arts. Let’s say “recreation.”

And we will open the doors to what otherwise may
be closed minds. Fortunately, people have no in—
hibitions about recreation.

Second, let’s have art for the sake of people
rather than for art’s sake. Too many leaders,
especially those trained at universities, get all
wrapped up in the techniques of music, art and

drama. Perfectionism in the play, concert or paint--

ing becomes the important thing, and giving indi—
viduals a chance to grow and an interest and a sat—
isfaction they can pursue for a lifetime falls by the
wayside.

This does not mean that the programs have to be
third-rate, inept and dull. Or that they have to
cater only to established popular tastes. There is a
group of children in Madison, Wisconsin, who
have the time of their lives playing in string quar-
tets. Kindergarteners play Bach Minuets, third
and fourth graders Handel Fugues, and fifth and
seventh graders Brahms’ Hungarian Dance with
the same enthusiasm that other children sing
rounds. And they’re good. Just average kids, but
they get very good. ’

I noticed that last spring Richard Davis, Mil-
waukee’s rather tough drama critic, was enthusi-
astic about the Sheboygan Community Players’
serious production of Tomorrow the World. To
me, that’s a good thing. In the long run people
like to be associated with an enterprise that goes
well, one in which they become better performers
than they were when they started, and one which
is good enough to attract an audience and appre—
ciation.

The nature of the arts is that they are communi—
cative. Whether participants be small children or
adults, to have the most fun out of drama, music,
art, there must be someone to talk to-—an audience.
But to have an audience beyond charitable rela-
tives, the stuff must be reasonably good. My thesis
is that even the average person, as with the child

quartets in Madison, can become good enough to

  
  

,,

F.3— /_.-_-_'

   
    

   

O

91‘?

Print by Gedge Harmon

 

justify an audience if he has a good leader who
cares about average persons.

Participation Plus Observation

Third, personal participation, learning by doing
—as we all know-——gives the greatest satisfaction,
the lasting appreciations. But let’s not undervalue
the usefulness of the spectacular program. M any
great art and music centers which believe firmly in
“doing it yourself” also have as their purpose mak-
ing people aware that other art or music exists. and
to lead them to see and hear the works of artists far
greater than the local people are likely to become.
Inspiration from others, hand in hand with per-
formance in the arts, makes an impression more
lasting than does either approach alone.

Why not major concerts, important art exhibi-
tions, big names in lectures and the theater world
presented by the public recreation department?
Let’s play second fiddle to no one—just because
we are “recreation” and “public.” Don’t under-
value, either, the prestige-giving benefits of an
important program. It will help you win attention
and respect for everything else you do.

But 111031: of all, as Edward Drummond Libbey,
the founder of Toledo’s Museum, said in his famous
museum creed, remember that “No city is great
unless it leads its people out of the bondage of the
commonplace.”

Recreation Departments as Stimulators

Fourth, the recreation department can do a lot
in the arts field, but it can’t do it all. There are
always questions of facilities, staff and budget. But
it can usefully relate recreation and its own pro—
gram to the going art life of the city. It can en-
courage interest in and attendance at concerts, art
exhibitions and plays elsewhere in the city—by
listing such events in the weekly recreation calen-
dar, by posting notices on recreation department
bulletin boards, by allying its demonstrations and

RECREATION

THE ARTS AS RECREATION 521

discussions with a forthcoming event, by showing
other art groups that it is interested and cares.

Indeed, it can give active sponsorship and aid to
such art groups. Take, for example, the VVest—
Chester Recreation Commission operating in the
little town of W’hite Plains, New York, but serv-
ing art interests throughout the county.

The \Nestchester Recreation Center provides a
sheltering roof and headquarters for many county
art groups. The Arts and Crafts Guild presents
its exhibitions there. The Westchester Symphony
Orchestra and Chamber Music Society give their
concerts in the auditorium. The Drama Associa—
tion is invited to bring its thirty little theater or—
ganizations to the Center for an annual tournament
of one—act plays.

Any group of citizens can organize a craft group
and obtain expert leadership from the Center.
Hundreds of school children and adults from all
over the county send in their pottery to be fired in
the Department’s kiln.

In all these enterprises it is the purpose of the
Recreation Department to initiate an art project
and turn it over as soon as possible to a private
committee or other local control, or to give en—
couragements and assistance to an organization
already attempting to do a job.

We all know how many art organizations falter
simply because they cannot count on having con-
tinuously a moving spirit to do the necessary leg
work. Westchester recreation officials recognize
this to the point of providing on their staff four
leaders who act as secretaries and executives for
some fifteen civic music, drama and craft organi—
zations. They keep the wheels turning and inter-
est alive. To me this is a very useful idea and a
valuable contribution. It vastly expands and

 
 
 
 
  

JANUARY 1946

. ’///

WWWWHHWW.

Print by Gedge Harmon

greatly stabilizes the role of the arts in the com—
munity and undoubtedly it makes pe0ple think con—
stantly of art as recreation.

Pioneering a Program

Fifth, let’s not wait for people to “express an
interest” before we try something. We tie our-
selves to a stake sometimes, letting, as we say,
“the program grow out of the interests of our cli-
entele.” There’s an old proverb: “Whom you don’t
meet you do not marry.” I have no doubt that
\Vestchester’s annual music festival or its group
in creative writing would never have happened if
someone on the recreation staff had not brought
the idea forward, willing against odds and lack of
interest to demonstrate the possibilities . . . no
doubt but that the children or their parents in
Madison would never have wanted, or even thought
of, string quartets for four-year—olds if someone
had not actively sold a bill ,of goods.

Then there’s the case of our workshop at the
Student Union at the University of Wisconsin. No
Union had ever included an arts and crafts shop.
Certainly students did not ask for one. One student
came to me with a proposition to start one; and
she wanted a job. We gave it a try. The girl was
put on the job. She hung a sign over the door,
“Each one to his own bad taste,” and a few stu-
dents wandered in. That was thirteen years ago.
Now there are thirty to fifty students in the shop
every afternoon —— on the pleasantest sunny days,
during football games, and even when they should
be in class—painting, modeling in clay, firing ce-
ramic jewelry, making Christmas presents in
leather, felt, and metal. You couldn’t pry them
loose. The shop filled not an expressed need but
an unrealized need.

The shop exemplifies, too, not only how one’s
leisure can be fully absorbed in art,but also how
worthy contributions to art can grow out of local
circumstances. Art is not somewhere else—in the
great metropolitan centers or enclosed in a book
on artists. It is to be found all about us.

One student got interested in the de-
sign elements found in the painted decora-
tion of old Norwegian chests and chairs
and textiles plentifully scattered over ‘Wis—
consin. With the help of our shop director
she set out to record them and preserve
them.

She has silkscreened the most interest—
ing designsmlearning much about the

(Continued on page 548)

 

Creative Recreation

By VIOLA'C. BROSKEY

curative values lie in creation.

This truth is being reaFFlrmed
every day in work with convales-
cing servicemen. Poster-making is
a ~eries of creative processes, from the conception
of the idea through its execution, involving ar-
rangement, choice of color, type of lettering, bal-
ance, and repetition. In a Military Hospital where
there must of necessity be sameness of color, rou-
tine, regulations, and uniformity of dress, this
activity gives the patient opportunity to be an
individual with emphasis upon creative and free
use of color. It makes possible a constructive out-
let for that very strong urge “to express self,”

IT HAS Limo been known that

Recreation Unit Head
Forest Glen

Walter Reed General Hospital

which, because of the limited op—
portunities in close group living.
could very possibly be displayed
in ways detrimental to the man
and annoying to others.

("reative work calls upon the resources of the
individual. It increases his capacity to visualize
and does much toward directing his thought away
from his own problems and toward constructive
endeavor. If a leader linds joy in creating, that joy
will become contagious in the class. She must not
dominate but she should stimulate the imagination
of the men. subordinating her own ideas to those
of the group.

This activity is peculiar in that it contains po-

Poster-malring has curative values for convalescing servicemen

 

522

RECREATION

 

CREATIVE RECREATION 523

tentialities for both individual and group work.
The work is individual, done in a group, where
suggestions and assistance are naturally given by
the group and easily accepted by the individual.
The leader must be ready and able to give help
when and if the required help is not forthcoming
from another member of the class. This group in-
terplay of “help one another” is important but
something to be subtly controlled, because if over-
emphasized, it will tend to detract from a man’s
sense of achievement and personal worth, both
vital factors in developing a feeling of security and
reestablishing social stability.

Activity never lags because of the constant influx
of new material to be publicized. Each day brings
new problems and challenges, yet enough of the
familiar to prevent a patient’s feeling overwhelmed
or defeated. A dominant part of this source ma-
terial has pleasant connotations and associations
with emphasis upon fun. These implications create

' a similar working atmosphere in the group, which

in turn creates desire on the part of the individual
to repeat this pleasant association, and by such
repetition, he puts forth greater effort and thus
acquires greater skill.

With adults, the leader cannot adopt the old
schoolroom technique of standing by and watching
the class at work but must be as one of them. In
so doing, she demonstrates ability and good work-
ing habits. She sets a standard. Demonstrated
ability on the part of the leader is essential as no
individual is willing to use his time and energy
working with a leader in whose ability he has no
confidence.

The instructor must be very careful not to de-
mand perfection but rather to supervise the work
at the level of the individual’s work efficiency,
because the available energy can be strengthened
only by .its full utilization. These are the almost
universal remarks made by the men upon their
initial entry into the poster class, "I’m no good
at this. I’m nervous. I’ll ruin it !" Patients in the
class who have had the same experience have an
answer to this : “You can’t spoil a poster at Forest
Glen. Miss Broskey says so. If your hand shakes,
make the letters fatter. If you spill a blob of paint.
just cover it up with a star or something. If you
spill the whole bottle, fill in the background. It’s
simple."

From then on a newcomer feels little hesitancy.
He realizes before he starts that mistakes are part
of the job and he already knows the IChiedy. Soon
those accidents which appeared in the beginning

JANUARY 1946

of his career become a thing of the past because
of increased confidence and skill. When a man
has joined the class, he is free to choose his own
job, that of drawing and painting a large poster, or
merely painting in ward program headings, mimeo-
graphed from an original cartoon, conceived and
executed by one of the group. No one knows his
limitations better than the man himself. There-
fore, by his own choice, he may decide in favor of
the simpler job. Later, when he has become more
adequate, he may ask or the leader may suggest
that he try a more difficult task. His is the de—
cision to accept or decline.

These posters are advertising programs to men,
and the leader must never forget it. She must en-
courage them to create ideas and slogans with a
premium placed upon originality and humor. To
create these themes, a man must draw upon his
own resources; and at times, the resources of the
group. Often one poster represents the pooled
thought of several individuals. One stimulates the
other’s thinking and together, they produce.

When the variety show, “Consolidated Mess,”
played at the hospital recently, the poster makers
got the fact across with a poster depicting a girl
with exaggerated attributes, sharply opposite to
those of every GI’s dream girl. Above it glared
the caption, “Consolidated Mess l” They an—
nounced the arrival of the SPAR Band with a
picture of a drooling wolf and the accompanying
title, “Wow! All Girl Band.” Another popular
show was advertised with a large drawing of a
poker “hand entitled, “Another Full House!”

The ward program headings to which the weekly
schedule of events is attached also show mascu-
linity and thought. One patient, by humorously
depicting his own experience, may bring to many
others the realization that their feelings are not
peculiar to them alone; but on the contrary rather
universal. This is certainly a step in the right di—
fection.

Work of this kind makes possible a very tangi-
ble basis for improvement and growth as the
patient views his work, compared to the work of
others and his own previous efforts. It also pro—
vides concrete evidence of achievement, essential
to the establishment of self-confidence. Then, too,
it gives the man an opportunity to give service by
contributing unselfisth to the whole. This is of
vital importance, particularly in a hospital, where
the emphasis is almost entirely in the opposite
direction—service, to the man.

(Continued on page 557)

What They Say About Recreation

who can pay $3 or $5 a ticket, but more
so for the simple worker who, though un-

able to pay, is just as much an aristocrat of the
spirit.”——-—Sergei K oussevitsky.

ll MUSIC 13 A SPIRITUAL need not only of those

“The search for some kind of spiritual base and
the rising tide of impatience with the willfully
obscure and the esoteric are certainly two of the
strongest currents that are setting in to affect the
character of writing in our time.”—J. Donald
Adams in The New York Times, November I9,

1945-

“Keep young folks occupied in their spare time,
give them plenty of elbow room for play, stimulate
competitive sports, and half, at least, of the youth
problem is solved.”—-——Robert Moses.

“Play skills give the parent a closer and more

effective relation with children and enrich family
life.”-—-—.loseplt Folsom in Childhood Education.

“Democracy or good citizenship comes not from
a course but from a teacher ; not from a curriculum
but from a human soul.” — Jacques Bureau in
The Teacher in America.

“Citizenship cannot be taught as a cold, abstract
thing. It can be taught best through doing things
together that yield joy; through playing together.”
_Tatt1 Deering.

“Recreation attempts the delicate task of co-
ordinating and deveIOping a complete individual—
a social being.” .

“Our crude civilization engenders a multitude of
wants, and law-givers are ever at their wits’ end
devising. The hall and the theater and the church
have been invented, and compulsory education.
Why not add compulsory recreation P”-——Jolm
Muir, November 12, 1876.

“Towns are held together more by religious.
social and recreational attractions than by plain

business transactions.”——U. S. Commerce Depart-
111cm.

524

“All over America belief must be strong that
the recreation way is the saving way. All over
America the belief must be strong that the coming
together of our people, both in seriousness and in
play, is basic to a sound democracy.”—Hae'ry A.
Ottersircel.

“It is better to light one small candle than to
curse the darkness.”———Confucins.

“Remember that happiness is as contagious as
gloom. It should be the hrst duty of those who
are happy to let others know of their gladncss."——
M auricc M acterlincle.

“Planned recreation and play together do more
to dispel group hatreds than any other force except
disaster. We shall have to purge ourselves of these
hatreds either by learning to work and play to-
gether or by going through war and death to-
gether.”-— Malcolm Shaw, University of Minne-
sota, in Survey Midmontltly.

“Fuller use should be made of the recreation
facilities of libraries, parks and playgrounds, and
these facilities should be extended.”-——-—Dr. Floyd
IV. Reeves.

“Anyone who is interested in means for releas-
ing tension must be as interested in creative and
diverting recreation as in periods of let-down and
repose. The crying need for our society, however,
is that the heralded recreation shall hax’e in it lots
of fun and jollity to offset the seriousness of our
work.”~——Joscphine L. Rathbone.

“Recreation should be regarded and conducted
as an educational and cultural force. This, of
course, is merely saying that it should be recog-
nized for what it really is. The character of the
American peeple and of their civilization will no
doubt depend as much on recreation as on educa-
tion.”—Ge0rgc S. Counts.

“Half the world is on the wrong scent in the
pursuit of happiness. They think it consists in
having and getting, and in being served of others.
It consists in giving and in serving others.”-—-—
Henry Drzitn'mond.

RECREATION

Friends Through Recreation

HREE HUNDRED YEARS ago—more or less—a

boatload of immigrants set foot for the first

time on the soil of a “new” world. They
brought with them their customary way of life—
their songs and their dances, their patterns of
speech and dress, their ideas and their crafts. They
found a land of wilderness and swamp, of wilder—
ness and rock. They found a pe0ple alien to them
and their ways, fitted to cope with the swamp and
the rock, fitted by their pattern of culture to live in
the wilderness. The newcomers fought that native
folk, but they took from the Indian what they
needed to make a life in the world they had come

to conquer.
Throughout the years that followed the first

landings of Europeans on the continent of North
America—the decades, the quarter centuries, the
centuries—the number of immigrants was in-
creased many hundredfold by people from Europe,
from Asia and Africa. More boatloads came from
France and Holland, from Spain and Sweden.
Irish and Scotch, Swiss and Finns, Italians and
Hungarians and Germans and Chinese and Aus—
trians, dark skinned and light skinned, man and
woman, bond and free, rich and poor, came to the
western shores. Each group brought a gift to the
new land—a gift of song or legend, of dance or
, language. The gifts were woven into the pattern
of a new land and a new people, became a part of
the warp and the woof
stretched upon the loom of
half a continent.

groups of people have begun to search out the
sources of those cultures and to make use of them
before they are lost.

There is still much to do. Rachel Davis-Dubois
speaks of “the creative use of cultural differences,”
and her words stand as a challenge to recreation
leaders everywhere, for the fabric of these “cul-
tural differences” are songs and singing games,
crafts and stories and dances—the very stuff that
recreation programs “are made on.”

The challenge is there, too, because of the charge
laid upon the recreation leader to use his skills and
his leadership to bring to his community a richer
and a fuller life, to help the foreign—born make for
himself a fitting habitation and a home, t9 give
second (or sometimes third or fourth) generation
Americans a reverence and a respect for race and
language and the traditional backgrounds of music
and dance that are too often lost in the desperate
human mob-need to “be like everybody else.”
There is no better way, perhaps, to bridge the gap
between native and foreign-born citizens, or be—
tween foreign-born parents and their American-
born children than to emphasize the gifts the mi-
nority groups have brought with them to build our
North American culture, that they may all become
friends through recreation. \

These are weighty arguments in favor of making
full use of national materials in the recreation pro-

gram. To them must be added
another argument, equally
weighty though less unselfish.

 

In time the old customs
were integrated into a new
culture, their origins often
hidden by the gathering of the
years. The people lost their
awareness of the gifts, forgot
that they were in debt to the
givers. The giversthemselves
sometimes forgot their ori-
gins. The heritage of an older
world was often brushed
aside, belittled, disregarded,
until in recent years we in the
. United States have become
once more aware of the wealth
of varying cultures lying on
our doorstep. Here and there

IA‘NUARY‘ 1946

The United States is a "nation of na-
tions," built over the centuries by immi-
grants who have brought to these shores
the culture of many nations and all the
continents. From Maine to California.
from Oregon to Florida recreation de-
partments are heirs to the gifts that "we
the peOple" have brought and are bring-
ing to the western land. Recreation de-
partments have the privilege and the obli-
gation of helping the foreign-born Ameri-
can to make here for himself a fitting
habitation and a homeI that those people
whose families have been making the
American way of life for many centur-
ies and those people who are newly
come into that way of'life may share
their several riches and in so doing may
become "friends through recreation."

 

For any local program will
grow in variety and richness
if such cultural backgrounds
of other nationalities are
probed and used with skill

and intelligence on the play-
ground or in the recreation
center.

Many communities have
already discovered the value
of working with nationality
groups. In the following pages
their experiences have been
distilled to form the basis for
suggestions on how to use the
gifts that have been given us.

525

526

Starting Point

Not all connnunities" will face the same situation
when they set out to use folk material in the pro-
gram. In some communities there will be many
groups of pe0ple who were born and raised in other
countries. Their memories of the songs they sang,
the games they played, the customary celebrations
that marked their high days and holidays may be
quite clear. Or their recollections may have be-
come dim through circumstances or intent. In
such a community some, at least, of the rich de—
posit of folk culture will be available, though the
vein may need to be worked with care and patience
and tact.

In other communities the minority groups may
long since have been assimilated to the pattern of
the majority. In such places it will take more
work to bring to the surface half forgotten memor-
ies of lore handed down from the past.

Still other places will have no foreign-born
groups, and program leaders will need to find
from books and from collections of songs and
games and dances the material on which to build
a program. Fortunately there is an increasing
supply of such printed or recorded material. Some
suggested titles will be found in the list of re—
sources at the end of this pamphlet.

Plans for Programs

No matter what techniques of program building
are" used, however, the kinds of material that will
go into the program will be much the same. These
fall into five categories—arts and crafts, games and
sports, music, folk dancing, drama. In addition,
various special events and such collateral activities
as picnics and receptions and discussion or study
groups may well be added.

A program which uses folk material doesn’t just
happen. It takes careful planning and careful
thinking out. But it has the technical advantage of
flexibility and it can be counted on to stimulate
general interest and enthusiasm.

Folk materials lend themselves easily to the day-
to-day program. They may be used with conspicu-
ous success for patriotic holidays or for seasonal
celebrations. As a “bang-up” culmination to a
year’s program or a summer’s activities, there is
nothing more colorful than a folk festival.

In planning the program there are two general
lines of development that can be followed either
separately or in combination. Our North Ameri-
can folkways offer a very fruitful field for program
material. The Indian cultures, the culturesof. the

FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION1r

southeastern mountaineers, the ways of the cowboy
are recognized as rich sources for background ma-
terial in music and games and arts and crafts and
dramatics and storytelling. Less apt to be thought
of are the folkways of the anthracite coal miners,
of the Cajuns of Louisiana, or the Pennsylvania
Germans. Yet these groups and many others in
the, country have enormously interesting customs
that are in some danger of disappearing except as
historical curiosities. They deserve rather to be—
come familiar to all of the people in these United
States, not just to the relatively small group living
near-by. For they can add much to an intelligent
awareness and use of the deep well of cultural
lores from which we draw our own culture.

The folkways of South America and Europe. of
Asia and Africa can be used, too, as program ma-
terial. It is not, of course, always easy—even in
communities where there are large groups of for-
eign-born or first generation Americans—to get at
the data the program leader is after. Those of our
people who have been removed from their immi-
grant ancestors by four or five generations have
not always been hOSpitable to the newer arrivals
and it may be necessary to break through layers of
suspicion and fear of ridicule and misunderstand-
ing in order to get at the facts. The program
leader cannot go blithely into the Mexican or
Polish or Spanish or Italian or Negro section of
the city with the attitude of “Goody, goody, here
I’ve come to find out about your native back-
grounds of culture!” Even with an underpinning
of the best intentions in the world such an attitude
will succeed in getting nowhere with a maximum
of speed! There is, of course, no hard and fast
rule on “The Proper Way to Approach a Minority
Group.” But there are some general principles
which should be borne in mind.

Getting Under Way

In the first place, human nature is essentially
the same regardless of national backgrounds, of
language differences, or differences in creed or
color or opportunity. For so long a time emphasis
has been placed upon the differences that it is
sometimes necessary to make a distinct effort be-
fore this habit of thought can be broken. But
broken it must be if the seeker after national cul-
tural knowledge is to meet with success. It is well
to remember, too, that few people want to stand up
and display their differences in a white light of
publicity. They need to be made (and we need to
make them). 'an integral part of the whole pattern,

RECREATION

.F.~. .

l
l

' FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION 527

not a brilliantly-colored fringe stuck around the
edge.

Probably the most importantusgingle need in a
successful meeting with minority groups is an
awareness that the cultural differences didn’t just
happen. They grew out of the life and environ-
ment, the needs of body and of spirit that a na-
tional group experienced together over the period
of many centuries. They are not to be taken
lightly but with the reverence generally accorded
to all aged and fragile things.

The program maker should have enough knowl-
edge of the customary social or religious taboos of
the foreign-born group to avoid offending against
them. It would be well, too, if he sought out and
made friends with the leaders of the young people
in the groups he is seeking to make contact with; if
he reassured these leaders that he had no desire to
disrupt the traditional patterns of control over
youngsters; gave to the leaders the time to come
to a thorough and mutual understanding with
them; gave them, too, wherever possible and de-
sirable, special services.

Rachel Davis—Dubois has developed a technique
of intercultural cooperation that has proved highly
successful. She describes it in a book entitled Get
Toyether Americans, published by Harper and
lrothers in 1943. An entirely different, but also
successful method used in eleven high schools in
New York City and VVestchester County, New
York, could be adapted on any playgrbund or in
any recreation center with
the necessary leadership in
dramatics. This method is
described by Spencer
Brown in They See for
Themselves, also published
by Harper and Brothers in
1945. The technique of or-
ganizing a folk festival is
described in a guide espe-
cially valuable for commu-
nities which have little or
no foreign-born elements in
their population. The
booklet, The Folk Festival
Handbook, was published
in 1944 by the Evening
Bulletin Folk Festival As-
sociation in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.
Program—Day-to-Day

Obviously each commu-

JANUARY 1946

nity must tailor its program material to fit its own
needs and its own facilities. The recreation leader
would do well to begin his planning with a careful
survey of his community resources. He will need
to know what nationality or other minority groups
are living in the community; what help he can
expect from these groups and from schools,
churches, other agencies or organizations in the
matter of trained leadership; what books he can
get from the local library, what records from the '
local music stores; where to go to supplement these
facilities and to get films and other visual aids for
the program. He may find it desirable to enlist the
aid of the newspaper and the radio station in pub-
licizing his program or to explain its place in the
whole recreation setup in talks to civic clubs, to
P.T.A.’s and to similar organizations. Certainly
here is an occasion when it would seem advisable
to take plenty of time and energy to interpret the
program and the department to the community at
large.

Once the initial “spadework” has been done. the
planning can get down to cases with little difficulty.

The Work of Their Hands

The handcraft program of playground or center
built around the arts and crafts and skills of
nationality groups can provide new and exciting

Exciting new activities for heads and hands to explore

 

528 FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION -

activities for hands
and heads to ex-
plore. Both young-
sters and adults
will respond to the
craftsmanship na-
tive to Czechoslo-
vakia or Russia,
Switzerland or
France or Mexico.
In one community
lucky enough to
have many na-
tionality groups
represented in its
population, the
public library ar-
ranged exhibits of
arts and crafts
from each group.
Such exhibits can
serve the double
purpose of stimulating interest and activity and of
giving national craftsmen a 'proper tribute to their
artistry. Some recreation departments plan their
craft periods so that each week the crafts of a
different nation are studied. Others prefer to work
intensively on the kinds of crafts developed in a
single country. An arts and crafts fair or exhibit
is a natural and a fitting climax to the summer’s
or the year’s work. If a final folk festival is part
of the planning, such an exhibit can have its place
in the over—all festivities. In any case, it is proba-
ble that the various nationalities will be proud to
join in the display which will attract many visitors
if it is properly promoted.

A World at Play

Either for their own good sakes or in building
toward a final festival, singing games and folk
games can have a prominent place in the program.
In any language their name is legion. There is
ample room to pick and choose the best—the most
interesting and colorful and varied—both from our
remote and our nearer immigrants. Our own land
is rich in singing games and folk games and play
party games—so rich that the play leader may
tend to neglect the games whose point of origin
is elsewhere or to overlook the more ancient roots
of what we think of as “American.” It will take,
maybe, more work to find and play the less fa-
miliar games, but the end will justify the effort
once the job has been done- Here, too, is an

 

Nationality groups interpret their national dances

opportunity to bring the community's nationality
groups into the picture as proud and active par-
ticipants in the program.

They can participate. too, by supplying informa-
tion about low organized games many of which
originated in foreign countries. A description or
a demonstration of how the games were played in
the countries of their origin will inevitably add to
the interest in playing them.

The Music Goes Round and Round

There is probably no more fertile field for the
nationality program than music. Much of our
tnost familiar music comes from abroad. Folk
501th open up many opportunities for choruses
which need not be too highly trained. Some Negro
spirituals are known and loved almost everywhere.
but there are many not so well known that make
good singing for everybody.

Among the nationality groups, too, it is often
possible to find people who could take part in in-
teresting activities revolving about instrumental
music. Some countries have developed what might
be called “folk instruments.” In other places some
one instrument has been traditionally used for
hundreds of years so that it has become an inti—
mate part of- the folkways of the community. Ex-
hibitions demonstrating such national musical in-

RECREATION

 

FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION 529'

strnments or, perhaps, classes organized to learn
their techniques would add many cubits to the
stature of music hours in the recreation program.

Music festivals and concerts using the vocal and
instrumental music of special groups would have
a proper and deflnite place in any festival pro-
gram, and toward that end nationality group units
could work throughout the year or the summer
preparing examples of their characteristic vocal
or instrumental music. Incidentally, a folk song
festival offers wide possibilities as a special func—
tion and, through the preparation period, excel-
lent program material for daily or weekly activities.

Dancing Feet

Folk dancing, always highly considered as a
suitable part of a recreation program, has been
experiencing of late a special renaissance of popu-
larity. There is probably no nationality group
which does not count among its numbers men and
women who are experts at interpreting their na-
tional folk dances. This, again, is an activity which
lends itself to the day-to-day program as well as
to colorful and interesting numbers for special
occasions or for the culminating festival.

The World a Stage

The opportunity to use nationality groups in
tableaux, pantomimes, plays, pageants, puppet
shows is almost endless. The legends and stories
of other lands provide excellent material for dra—
matizations, whether they be simple or elaborate.
Some groups have, in honor of special feast days.
plays or pageants that have been handed down—
generation to generation-from time immemorial,
and these will add interest and excitement to any
event scheduled at the recreation center. Since
many of these dramatizations have a religious sig—
nificance, however. care should be exercised as to
the circumstances under which they are presented.

The many weeks and days set apart each year
for marking some special phase of American life
will provide frequent chances to dramatize the
contributions to culture and science in the United
States that have been made by peOple from other
countries. Both in the preparation of the material
and in the production itself the groups of people
originating in other lands can take an important
part here. If language presents a difficulty for new
arrivals from other countries, it is always possible
to prepare the script for a narrator or two, using
pantomimes or tableaux which will give .lmany
actors a chance to be seen but not heard."-

IAN UARY 1946

If language does not have to be considered,
verse speaking choirs are particularly effective in
presenting dramatic materials that depend in large
measure on narrative content. The following lines,
written for a New Citizens’ Day in Salt Lake City,
Utah, are an excellent sample of a treatment of
nationality materials that would lend itself to
choric speech:

I am the England

In this man, this woman . . .

These things I remind you --

I gave you the nucleus of a race,

A language, and 880 years tradition

Into the keeping of an American wilderness.

And you speak my tongue still.

And you keep my traditions

And the strong Stock of me. I
Pilgrims, planters, freebooters .

How shall you forget them?

Your rivers, mountains, states,

And your proudest cities wear English names,
And the rock at the core

Of your beloved democracy

Is the unbending will of English yeomen to be free.
How shall you forget these things?

I am the great heart of Germany . . .

Who gave you the exact sciences,

And taught precision to your minds . . .

Yet, lest the gifts of me be forgotten,

These things I remind you:

It was my Von Steuben who trained those ragged armies
'Dhat turned back imperial Britain

And made a nation beyond the Atlantic,

And brothers to him came quietly to the freed soil
And made it yield.

And I have given you Damrosch and Lehman,

To sweeten your ears

Steinmetz, Einstein

To enrich your laboratories

And these not a thousandth part.

How shall you forget me?

I am the France

In these Americans . . .

Mother of grace, mother of elegance.

How shall you forget me

W’hose foreign money, arms, soldiery,

The visionary Lafayette, and a hundred tall ships
Fought for your first cause?

I gave you polish and the infinite refinement

Of five hundred years’ achievement in the arts . . .
We are bound as strongly as the knit stones

In the “Liberty” that stands

In New York harbor.

Our armies have stood shoulder to shoulder, .4
And our men of peace, arm in arm.

How shall you forget me?

.I am ,the Italy“ 
In'thesé Americans”. . .

530 FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION ,1

How shall you forget me?

Who gave you law and the procedure of law;

W’ho cradled Christ in the lean and bitter years

Of the beginnings;

Who brought the brilliance of the Renaissance

To all the progenitors of America.

A man of mine planted the first banners

Of the white race on your shores

And another gave his name to half the world,
Columbus and Amerigo, and you honor them still —
Sons of me have built yOur roads,

Your tall buildings, dug your sewers and tunnels,
Rome has always been a builder.

And I gave you song, and singers to warm you . . .
How shall you forget these things?

I am the Slav in these Americas . . .

'That endlessly unbowed,

That‘ gave the west continent

The proudest and the best of my

Broad backs and eager youth.

How shall you forget me

That gave Tesla, Pupin.

Into your sciences;

Dvorak into your own music,

And Hofman and Stokowski.

Ask the coal you burn, who mined it,

The gasoline, what worker wrung it from the earth,
The bridge, what man bound its steel together . . .
And every third answer will be “A Slav.”

I made you rugs to walk on,

And Slavic craftsmen fill your houses.

How can you forget me?

I am Greece
A deep and antique voice

 

In the symphonic voice of America. '
I am Hellas }
Inventor of democracy, ‘
Source of your sources of music,

Poetry, sculpture, drama,

And the endless sciences of inquiring minds.

Who will gainsay me -—

\Nho will not remember and acknowledge me?

. . . The fertile places in California, Arizona, Oregon
Attest me.

The sweets your children buy with pennies

And the vending of foods attest me.

I am endlcss Greece, the sage and the humble.

How shall you forget me?

I am the Denmark

In these Americas.

Half a million of me

Moved westward from the North Sea
And diffused over half a continent.
How shall I be forgotten?

The lush dairylands of Minnesota,
Illinois, Oregon, Wisconsin

Attest me. ‘

The fields of the Dakotas, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado
Attest me.

I gave you the best of a strong

And patient race . . .

I sent the ablest of my people,

How shall you forget me?

I am the Finland

In this America,

The northernmost of the north countries,

An echo of the crackle of ice underfoot,

A memory of stern living and a frugal people.

How shall you for-
get me,

The payer-of-debts?
The Nation’s lumber
yards justify me,
The iron mines of

Minnesota,
And farm lands by
the northern border
Attest me . .
I sent you the tallest
of my sons,
And the tallest of
my daughters.
You shall not for-
get me.
(Continued on
on page 554)

Youngsters can
make books show-
ing their nation-
albackgrounds

RECREATION

 

The School Takes a Hand

0
HEN MADISON SCHOOL in
Pittsburgh closed for the
1945 summer vacation each
sixth grader knew all about the playground, the
swimming pool, the library sub-station and the day
camp in his neighborhood. Each one had discov-
ered for himself that a youngster can have an ex—
citing and interesting vacation. They hadn’t looked
forward much to past vacations, these youngsters.
The end of school had meant three months of dull
and uninspired loafing to most of them. But by
June 1945 every sixth grader in the school knew
what to do in his spare time and where to go to
do it. They knew because they had learned in their
English class.

When the spring semester
was well on its way the sixth
grade held a discussion of
games in their English period.
The question of summer fun
came up. The teacher asked
them these questions:

“What games do you like
to play ?”

“What fun did you have
last vacation?” .

“If you had your wish come true, what would
you like to do most of all this summer ?"

“\Vhat are your plans for this summer?”

From the answers it was clear that there \vere
no plans for the vacation to come and that past
vacations had been filled with humdrum, unguided
activities. This was not surprising, for the young-
sters came from poor homes, and elaborate camps
and trips were beyond their reach. Many of them,
with working parents, would be left to their own
devices once school closed. . .

But the boys and girls were definite in the things
they wanted to do. These were some of their
answers: “I would like to go swimming, to play
tennis, to play jacks, to go to the zoo, to ride the
bicycle, to go traveling (the list of places ranged
from California to Maine), to see places in Pitts—
burgh, to stay at a camp, to play on the play-
ground, to hike to the country, to make things out
of wood, to embroider, to cook, to sew, to paint, to
read.” One little girl who had no hope at all for
the future, said calmly that she wasgoingto Stay

JANUARY 1946

By TILLIE HAROWITZ
Madison School, Pittsburgh. Pa.

The school has many a contribution to
make to the recreation program. One of
the most obvious is often overlooked. It
is especially interesting. therefore, to
learn how one imaginative teacher in one
school devised ways and means to use
an English class as an introduction to a
summer of happiness and a guidebook to
fun for more than one youngster who had
not, before, looked forward to vacation.

at home and like it. “Where can
you do all these things this sum—
mer and do you know where such
places are in your own neighborhood?” asked the
teacher. A few knew, a few had been active already
in the neighborhood Y, but many did not know.
They were for the most part afraid of the cost. It
was obvious that they needed help, not only the
one class but the others in the school also. Through
an auditorium period, others too, could be taught
all the facts about a safe and happy vacation.

Here was a project for the English period. The
sixth grade boys and girls could get the facts and
and prepare from them an auditorium program for
the whole school. The sixth
graders turned themselves in
May and June into recrea—
tion surveyors.

“How will you find out
what facilities there are for
boys and girls in your neigh—
borhood- Y, the playground,
the park, the church, and the
clubs for children?” They
thought they might start by
visiting their neighborhood Y,
and discussing their problem with the director. The
enthusiasm of the class grew as soon as the first
group returned and told of their trip. One boy
said, “You have to listen hard and know all the
hard words which the man said.” Another com:
mented, “You have to know how to behave.” Thus,
they put on their very best Sunday clothes and
went forth with their teacher to find out for them-
selves.

Before each interview, an appointment was made
with the director of the organization to be visited
and the group that volunteered to go. The chil-
dren selected the institution they wanted to visit.
Before they left they came together to decide what
questions they were going to ask. There was
always, too, much discussion about their social
behavior during the proposed excursion. For these
trips offered many opportuities to teach good citi—
zenship, courtesy and orderly behavior. “What
should you do on the street car? How do you
enter such a building? Who opens doors? Who.

(Continued on page 557)

531.

U. S. O. to Y-O-U

was given three weeks to close and it did!

There was no warning given to the U. S. 0.
operating committee, volunteers, or the neighbor-
hood previous to this time. Attempts to explain
the closing of the Service Center were futile. For
three months the building was dark and idle. Dur-
ing the three summer months a new public recrea-
tion setup was effected in Tacoma, bringing
together the Metropolitan Park District and the
Tacoma School District in the joint financing of
the public, year-round program. An advisory rec-
reation commission was created and a new super—
intendent employed.

Then came the work of “selling” the Park
Board, on whose property the U.S.O. building 'was
located, on the need for a civilian neighborhood
recreation center. Although the members of the
Park Board were skeptical, nevertheless credit
goes to them for finding the funds to Operate the
civilian center from September to December 31,
1944,, the end of the fiscal year.

A contract' of management was signed by the
Federal Security Agency and the Metropolitan
Park District. The annual rental of the property,
still government-owned, is a dollar a year. The
Federal Security Agency requested a budget show-
ing that the Park District would provide leader-
ship, operate and maintain the building, excepting
for structural defects. (See budget, Part 1, De-
cember RECREATION.) On June 17, 1944, the
Federal Recreation Building, U.S.O., became the
South Tacoma Community Center on a rental basis.
$478 worth of fuel oil and janitor’s supplies were
purchased from the USO. by the Park District.

All federally-owned property remained in the
building. The properties include a I6 mm. sound
motion picture projector, a very fine public address
system, complete soda fountain, furniture, draper-
ies, and janitor’s cleaning equipment.

On August I, 1944, Miss Margery Davisson,
former U.S.O. worker in the building, was ap-
pointed director of the civilian center. Instead of
a yearly U.S.O. budget of $13,672, she now had a
civilian community center budget of $3,792 from
September 1 to December 31, 1944.

Miss Davisson’s first objective was the organi-
zation of a ciitizens’ advisory council. She reports
that in her visits to many individuals andgroups

532

IN EARLY MAY 1944, the South Tacoma U.S.O.

By THOMAS W. LANTZ

Superintendent of Public Recreation
City of Tacoma, Washington

PART II

within the community, the full effects of the sudden
closing was obvious. “Important contacts had been
lost, precious adult volunteers had scattered or
found other interests, junior hostesses were disor-

ganized, bitterness showed in those individuals .

and clubs who had been so very faithful. There
was a willingness to accept the advantages of the
‘new’ center but not to help in the work or sharing
the expenses,” reports Miss Davisson. The scof-
fing attitude of the businessmen could be summed
up in the statement, “if the government couldn’t
swing it, how do they expect local people to do
it?” Apparently there was a general apathy to-
wards the new project on the part of the neigh-
borhood.

Thus the first lesson might be learned from ex—
perience that U.S.O. building reconversions must
not be accomplished sud—
denly. The mere fact that
Miss Davisson has been
working over a year to in-
terpret the work of the
neighborhood recreation
center and is still solicit-
ing°adult participation in
the operation and activi—
ties, should be a warning
to all U.S.O. to Y-O—U
transition. In a recent con-
ference of U.S.O. Puget
Sound area staff represen-
tatives, the subject, “Re-
conversion and U.S.O.”
was the number one topic
of the day.

A recent letter from the
Tacoma U. S. 0. Council
inviting the wtiter of this

On Junior High Canteen
Night the young people
have dance instruction

RECREATION

 

article to sit in on the new "Reconversion Com— In RECREATION for December, Mr. Lantz told of

mittee” indicates a desire on the part of U.S.O. “‘9 experience Of the Tamma Park Board in P"°"

locally to avoid a hasty shifting of serviceinen’s m°+ing the U‘S°O' :"lldlngp :°°ged Egatz'k Piss:
and women’s buildings to the public. The letter eriy' as a commun Y Ce" 9 ° '93 "-

“ . . geting. and similar matters were discussed.
states the functions of U.S.O. are now in a state In ,‘his issue Mr. Lanh describes some of me

Of transition and we expeCt in the next year to difficulties encountered in the transition period
eighteen months that the U.S.O. centers will cease from me {ime U,s.o. “opined opera+ing umtil “"3
to function as such. During this period, problems Metropolitan Park District assumed responsibility for
will arise relating to factors such as curtailment of “‘9 bundlngo

activities and what disposition should be made of
facilities and similar matters.”

The possible objectives of a reconversion com— (c) The requirements of the Federal Government
Inittee might be: through the Federal Security Agency in the

. . . , , transfer of federally-owned property
I. To assist in relating the leadership which has

been with U.S.O. during the war to the civic, (d) The minim-men“ 0f the National U-S-O-e Inc-
religious, recreational, and social welfare op— m the "anger 0f equ‘pment
portunities for service in the city. 3. To discuss a long term plan for service to

local veterans’ hOSpitals and to the standing
Army, Navy, Marine and State Guard per-
sonnel in the area.

to

. T9 assist in the conversion of U.S.O. prop—
erty and equipment for constructive pur—
poses. This may require a study of ——

To integrate the activities of servicemen and

(a) The needs of the city 4' . . . . .
women With the community act1v1ties.

(b) The requirements of the owners of the land . ,
and buildings assigned to 13.3.0. during the 5. To consider methods of financ1ng the center

war after U.S.O. withdraws.

 

C during: Tacoma Recreation Commission

533

IANUARY 1946

5.54 (15. U. TO }’-U-('

 

Courtesy Tacoma Recreation C ommission

The U. S. 0. Building in South Tacoma which is

One thing is certain.
There will be many or—
ganizations seeking the use of U.S.O. buildings.
Pressure groups will do everything possible to
local and federal officials to gain their point that
their organization should be the one to operate the
former U510. building. Therefore, the composi-
tion of the “Reconversion Committee” is most im—
portant. Surely the committee should be widely
represented.

From a number of other cities have come re-
ports of [15.0. buildings which, under certain con-
ditions, have been turned over to local municipal
bodies by the federal government.

Galveston, Texas, is reported to have obtained
two well-equipped U.S.O. buildings, one for white
citizens. the other for Negroes, each originally
costing $90,000. The buildings have been turned
over to the local Park and Recreation Board with
a contract which calls for payment of $1.00 per
year. If the Board should eventually decide to pur-
chase them they may be acquired for fifteen per
cent of the appraised value, with the provision
that no payment would be made for three years.

now serving as a Neighborhood Recreation Center

After this, payments of
$2,000 a year would be
required until the building is paid for. These two
buildings are said to be completely equipped and in
excellent condition.

\Vord has been received that Tampa, Florida,
has purchased for $13,000 two federally-owned
recreation buildings in that city, one for whites,
originally costing $60,000; the other for Negroes,
costing $40,000 with furnishings and equipment.

Further reports are to the effect that the federal
recreation building in Panama City, and the build-
ing at Tallahassee, Florida, are to be sold to local
authorities for $10,000 each. Among other cities
reporting on plans to take over U.S.O. buildings,
in some instances for youth centers, are Bruns-
wick, Maine; Nevada, Missouri; and San Luis
( )bispo, California. There are doubtless many other
communities which have taken definite action or
are considering plans to secure buildings.

The National Recreation Association will greatly
appreciate receiving reports of other federally—
owned recreation buildings which are being turned
over to authorities in local communities for ad-
ministration. This information will be reported in
RECREATION for the benefit of all our readers.

RECREATION

. 5 r0——"

_Two days after

. Children's Theater Goes Traveling.

N ‘ AKE SEVERAL portions of in-
T terested local talent; mix
well with hard work and
cooperation of a children’s thea-
ter committee, a municipal recre-
ation division, and a civic-minded department
store; pour into a portable stage. Serves thou-
sands." Thatfs the recipe for making theater for
all the children an actuality rather than a recrea-
tion department's dream.

Since the fall of 1944 the City Division of Rec-
reation in Richmond has been working with Miller
& Rhoads, one of the city's oldest department
stores. to produce selected plays free for Rich-
mond's children. The Recreation Division super-
vises and directs the dramas and Miller 8: Rhoads
finances them and distributes the tickets, in addi-
tion to advertising them in their newspaper ads
and radio programs in connection with their chil—
dren's book store, The Aladdin Bookshop.

History

It all began when Miller 8.: Rhoads heard of the
splendid work the Division had been doing with
children’s drama
andinvited them to
produce Aladdin
and His Wonder-
ful Lamp to be
presented in their
tea room.The pro-
duction was a
huge success and
the demand for
tickets so great
that Aladdin was
repeated in the
Lyric Theater for
another full house
of enthusiastic ju-
venile playgoers.
“The Aladdin
Players” had scor-
ed their first hit.

Next children’s
theater show was
Mary Poppins.

the tickets became

JANUARY 1946

By PATRICIA W. ROYAL
Promotions Secretary
City Division of Recreation
Richmond. Virginia

available, Miller 8.: Rhoads tele-
phoned the Recreation Division
to hang out the SRO sign!
School groups came. Matrons
brought large numbers of chil-
dren from the orphanages and city homes. Boys
and girls with and without their mothers saw the
fantastic story unfold on the stage of the Lyric.
Many bewildered youngsters left the theater still
wondering how even an unusual person like Mary
Poppins could have tea up in the air with her
uncle, defying all laws of gravity. But Mary \vas
like that, and -it~was a delightful production from
the time the East W’ind blew her into the lives of
two adventurous children to the split second when
the “fest \Vind blew her out again as mysteriously
as she had arrived.

Robin Hood, a colorful comic opera, was pro—
duced in conjunction with the Richmond Opera
Group. From Sherwood Forest transferred to the

Little Women

 

535 y

53o CHILDREN’S THEATER GOES TRAVELING

Lyric stage came the
well known tunes 01
de Kovcn’s best known
work. Some of Rich-
mond’s most talented
singers gave the juvenile
audience an enjoyable
afternoon full of such
favorites as “For I'm
Falling in Love with
Someone” and “Brown
October Ale.” One week
later the curtain was go—
ing up on Robin Hood
again, this time as a de—
mand performance in con—
nection with the Seventh
War Loan drive. Bonds
purchased to see this
local production exceeded
the amount bought to see
some of the nationally-
known stage and radio
stars imported to boost
the \\'ar Bond sales.

“'hen summer arrived
the Recreation Division
and Miller & Rhoade
proudly announced that
theAladdin Players would
tour the city parks on a
portable stage with two
children's plays. The sum-
mer before Cinderella
had been most favorably received at eighteen of the
city playgrounds where it played from a “stage on
wheels." The portable stage was a big improve-
ment and adaptable to any location and to a variety
of plays. Seated on a hillside on pillows, news—
papers, and the bare ground, thousands saw the
out-of-door productions in their own neighbor—
hoods.

Lewis Carroll’s Alice in ll’onderland with its
white rabbit and its mad hatter was the first show
on the portable stage. After a full house on open-
ing night at McVey Hall, Alice took to the road
for performances scheduled for each of the four sec-
tions of the city. However, the fates were against
Alice and the play was rained out at all but one
location.

By the time Rmnpelstfltskin was ready to tour
the parks, the freak season was over. This charm-
ing drama of a mysterious little dwarf Was playing

 

Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp

to its last audience in Gamble’s Hill Park near the
center of the city when the premature report of
victory ended its performance on a very joyful
note. Rmnpel, as the play was lovingly called by
the technical stafic and actors, was one of the best

of the productions, having excellent lighting effects
and settings.

With its elaborate scenery and props, Jack and
the Beanstalk was the most recent of the children's
theater plays in Richmond. This was the first of
two plays scheduled for the winter season in the
Lyric Theater. The audience laughed and wept

with Jack and his widowed mother as they com-
batted the ferocious giant.

Children's theater in Richmond works on a very
simple plan. Serving behind the scenes is the

(Continued on page 550)
RECREATION

Music Week in Recreation Departments

and Inter-American Music

Week is growing in popu-
larity among recreation execu-
tives, because it is proving practical as a stimulus
to tart-mica! interest and activity throughout the
yea-r. .

Beginning as it does the first Sunday in May,
the observance can be made a demonstration of
what has been accomplished through the winter or
indoor season, an introduction of plans for the
summer and fall, and an appeal for public interest
and support in new work that cannot be estab—
lished until such support is forthcoming. The time
is also propitious in most places for both indoor
and outdoor events.

This year’s observance, the twenty-third annual
Music Week, will be held May 5-12. President
Truman is chairman of the Honorary Committee
of Governors, and the following are some of the
thirty-three prominent national organizations rep-
resented through their presidents on the active
committee :_ National Federation of Music Clubs,
Music Educators National Conference, National
Recreation Association, Boy Scouts of America,
Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, 4-H Clubs, and
Y.M. and Y.W.C.A.’s. The state branches of
some of these groups have outlined model plans by
which their local units may take part, independ-
cntly or together with other groups.

PARTICIPATION in National

Chicago Celebrates Music Week in 1945

Recreation directors thinking of doing some—
thing about Music \Veek in the spring, and look-
ing for ideas, will probably gain most from a brief
discussion of what was actu—
ally done last year by their
colleagues in a few selected
cities.

In Chicago the Music \Vee’k
observance of 1945 was held
under the auspices of the
Choral and Instrumental
Music Association, with the
Parks and Playgrounds De-
partment prominently repre—
sented on the Executive Com-
mittee through Ken Carring-

IANUARY 1946

By C. M. TREMAINE
Secretary
National Music Week Committee

"Music is one ex ression of the Supreme
Artist and of al the creative forces of
the universe which inspire us. . . . Some
of us are born to be sensitive to music:
others find it difficult to understand at
first, but after a time they become re-
sponsive to its message' and their entire
life is enriched by music. A new source
of ioy and understanding gives to them
an enlarged meaning to life."—Leopo|d

Stokowski in Music for All of Us.

ton. Programs of the observance
gave the city a chance to hear
demonstration concerts by such
distinctive musical and civic

groups as the Hull House Choirs, the University

of Chicago Chamber Orchestra, the Civic Music
Association, the Mendelssohn Club, the Paulist
Choristers, and the Swedish Choral Club. In co—
operation with the Illinois Congress of Parents
and Teachers, the Association took advantage of
the occasion to present one concert by Mother-
singer Choruses or women organists each day of
Music \Veek.

The twenty major events of the observance were
so well distributed over the city and some subur-
ban areas, and so well fitted into the time schedule
that large sections of the population were reached
and various types of interest served without dupli—
cation or crowding, yet with a powerful collective
effect. Choral programs were somewhat in the
majority—in line with the purpose stressed by the
Association this year, “Let’s Keep Chicago Sing-
ing,” but next year it may be there will be more
instrumental programs, for the encouragement of
amateur orchestras and small ensembles is just as
close to the heart of the Association.

The noon-hour programs at the corner of State
and Madison Streets, another feature of Music
Week, were arranged in cooperation with the State
Street Council and the Illinois Opera Guild Radio
Networks, and presented in a less formal style the
work of such groups as the Chicago 8: Northwest-
ern Railway Company Choral Club, the Mixed
Chorus of the High Schools of the Chicago Cath-
olic Archdiocese, the Monumental Youth Glee
Club, the Christian High
School Choir, the Pullman
Choral Association, and the
Alice Stephens All—Girl
Singers.

Concluding the observance
in Chicago was a Music Week
Conference at Kimball Hall,
with all its six sessions de-
voted to the city’s progress
and needs in the field of music
and how these were being aim
  H fected by the trends of the

537

538 MUSIC WEEK IN RECREATION DEPARTMENTS

day. Main discussions were
on the subjects of music
in therapy, in the churches,
in recreational organiza—
tions, and as a leisure time
interest generally ; woman’s
place in music; music in
the home; what music can
do for Chicago; what Chi—
cago should do for music.

Dr. Hans Rosenwald,

Conference, summarized
the discussions and pro—
posed a Chicago Music
Center‘ to serve as a clear—
ing house where people
might find advice, materials, artists and inspira—
tion. He stated that it is the responsibility of mu—
nicipal groups, now that music has won audiences
in factories and convalescent hospitals, to make it
available to all through such a center. It was the
consensus of the meeting that the Conference be
made an annual event, and that plans for it in con-
nection with the 1946 Music Week be made as far

in advance as possible.

The 1945 Celebration in Indianapolis

From Indianapolis, K. Mark Cowen, Superin—
tendent of the Recreation Division, reports that
Music Week was celebrated with well prepared
programs at four community centers and one at
the Soldiers and Sailors Monument in the down-
town section. He adds that the participation ex-
erted a beneficial influence and “made people more
music conscious.” At the Brookside Center a
“Melody Manor” feature was sponsored by the
teen—agers, with other numbers given by the Tech—
nical High School Concert Orchestra and the Boy’s
Concert Club. The local advisory committee con-
sisted about equally of recreation officials and
music club leaders, with the actual program ar—
rangements in the hands of Ruth Smith, Super—
visor of Music for the Recreation Department.

Some Activities in California

The chairman of the Music Week Committee in
Los Angeles was Harold W. Tuttle, President of
the Municipal Art Commission. Summarizing his
view of the effects of the observance, he wrote that
it marked the beginning of a city-wide musical
organization program, “which we. believe will

reach all local communities within-the city‘ and-

"What our national music needs is freedom
from all inhibitions and timidities. an unem-
barrassed enioyment of our own performance
in its better moments, a sense of humor con-
cerning the limitations of our talent. and. °
iust as much, a sense of social obligation to
develop the talent to its capacity, to per-
form as well as we can. .
hide a bad paintingI harder to get rid of a
bad statue. and impossible to ignore a bad
building. But the music we make dies with the
performance. If it is bad we hasten to forget

General Chairman of the it. If it was good even the audience. re-
members it as a little better than it was."-—-

John Erskine in More Music in Small

Towns, "American Magazine of Arts."

bring about permanent
choral. and instrumental
groups of citizens, produc—
ing music for their own
benefit and that of their
community.”

The opening program,
given at the entrance to
the City Hall 011 'Sunday,
May 6th, featured Jeanette
MacDonald, singing ac-
tress; the Los Angeles
Police liand, a Boys’
Chorus of 300 directed by
Roger \Vagner; and sev-
eral smaller instrumental
ensembles ; with a brief ad—
dress by Mayor Bowron. Civic and other groups
participating in or sponsoring other programs in-
cluded all Los Angelcs Kiwanis, Rotary, Lions,
and Optimists Clubs, all USO centers, public libra—
ries, Choral Conductors’ Guild, Junior Chamber
of Commerce, Civic Chorus, Parent—Teacher As-
sociation, and many of the schools, churches and
women’s clubs.

In Long Beach, California, where Music Week
has been an annual event since its inception in
1924, the Recreation Commission sponsored the
Monday evening program at Exhibition Hall, Mu—
nicipal Auditorium. The Press Telegram devoted
a whole page the opening Sunday of the observ—
ance to a picture display of musical groups from
the Long Beach schools and an article on the value
of music education.

. . It is difficult to

Large, Medium and Small

St. Paul, Minnesota, organized amateur vocal
and instrumental contests in fifteen recreation cen—
ters as the leading feature of its Music Week ob-
servance. Classes in the vocal contests were:
choral groups of eight or more persons, quartets,
trios and soloists; in the instrumental section, or-
chcstras of eight or more persons, soloists, and
novelty musical stunts. Best entries in all the
classes competed for the city championship finals
the closing Sunday of Music Week. As this was
also Mother’s Day, the program was dedicated to
the mothers of St. Paul. Certificates of award
were presented by Robert F. Peterson, Commis—
sioner of Parks, Playgrounds and Public Build-
ings. Frank J. Drassal, Supervisor of Recreational
Activities worked out the plans for the contests.

(Continued on page 555)
RECREATION

 

/

Orientation via Recreation

CHOOL SYSTEMS operating
S under the 6—3-3 plan
often experience an ori-
entation problem arising from
the need for integration of students from the junior
high schools upon arrival at the senior high.

By sponsoring a co-recreational play day, a three—
fold objective may be successfully achieved,
namely: orientation of st°udents, opportunity for
youth to associate under favorable conditions with
young people of the opposite sex, and an oppor-
tunity for many students to enjoy “themselves.
This article is concerned with a method success-
fully used to obtain the above named objectives.

As is true in the inauguration and maintenance
of any co-recreational program, success depends
upon the cooperation of many teachers. In organ-
izing and making plans for the play day, an at-
tempt was made to include as many departments
in the school as possible. By so doing the play day
became a school project and not a project of the
physical education department alone. The schools
involved beeame play day conscious.

The departments participating and their contri-
butions were as follows:

I. The home economics classes purchased rib-
bon which they measured and cut by pattern
for the awards.

2. The art classes designed the awards, made
posters, pennants, and signs.

3. The wood shop classes constructed equip-
ment necessary for the games.

4. Members of the mechanical drawing classes

constructed the playing .courts on the athletic
field.

5. The Newspaper Club of the English depart-
ments wrote articles on the play day which
were published in the school papers as well
as the local papers.

6. The high school print shop printed the
awards.

7. The junior business classes sold refreshments

at the play day. The proceeds were used to
finance the play day.

8. The Camera Club took pictures of the activi-
ties and made them into a film strip to'be used

JANUARY 1946

By J OE DICKSON

Direcjor of Physical Education for Boys
Junior High Schools, Galesburg, III. day.

in the future to stimulate
interest in another play

9. All of the play activities
were taught in the gym classes.

Team Organization

Four hundred boys and girls from the ninth
grade of the three city junior high schools par-
ticipated. The participants were divided before-
hand into two groups of equal number according
to size. The largest boys and girls were placed on
“A” teams, and the remaining group on “B”
teams. The names of sixteen well known colleges
were selected to be represented by an “A” and a
“B” team. In selecting the teams an equal number
of outstanding boys from each school were as-
signed to act as captains. Other students were
added until all teams were equal in number and
abilities. Each team had the same number of boys
and girls from each of the junior high schools and
thus school rivalry was avoided. The captains
were the only students who knew before the play
day to which team they had been assigned. No

boy or girl knew the personnel of any team until
arrival at the athletic field.

Leaders

A week before the play day the thirty-two cap-
tains were assembled, assigned to their college, and
given instructions for leading their teams. Each

boy was made to feel his responsibility and much
enthusiasm was developed at the meeting.

Equipment

All equipment was in place on the athletic field
upon arrival of students and supervising teachers.
At the close of the afternoon each instructor was
held responsible for equipment used in his re—
spective games. Sufficient equipment was on hand
and it was not necessary to move equipment at
any time. Extra balls, shuttlecocks, were avail-
able in case of accidental punctures or breaks.

Oflicials

The high school Varsity Club and Girls Ath-
letic Association served as oBicials. The Varsity
Club members wereassisted by the G.G.A. mem-

539

540

bers who were the official
scorers. A meeting was held
with each of the organiza-
tions at which time each
member was given instruc-
tions and the rules for each
of the games to be played.
This gave the officials time to
study and familiarize them-
selves with their responsi-
bilities.

ORIENTA TION VIA RECREA TION

School authorities in Galesburg, Illinois,
found that bo s and girls who had been
rather large frogs in their iunior high
school puddles were having trouble ad-
iusting themselves as newcomers to the
"ponds" of senior high school. It tool:
too long, by way of regular channelsI tor
the incoming youngsters to feel "at
home" in their new surroundings. So . . .
the school authorities put their heads
together and decided that recreation
was "iust what the doctor ordered."
How recreation solved their problem is
told in an article by Joe Dickson.

and one for third place.
Scores were ' given for each
relay and each field event. In
games such as volley ball the
groups played for points
without any number of points
to constitute a game specified.
At the close of the afternoon
all cards were handed over to
the chief scorer who deter-
mined the winner.

Events

Assembling of Groups

51‘ he play day was held at
the high school athletic field which has four en—
trances. Students were admitted to various gates
according to the first letter of their last name.
Upon entering the field each was given a tag on
which was written his name, the team to which
he or she was assigned, and the division, A or B.
The tag was tied in such a position that everyone
could learn the names of participants.

Pennants of the colleges had been placed at
various places on the field. As soon as a student
learned the college team to which he had been
assigned he joined this group and started getting
acquainted with his fellow team members.

Movement of Groups

Each captain was given a schedule for his team
and the location of the various activities. Direc-
tions were given to the groups over a loud speaker
which had been set up on the field. In order to
check the teams as they arrived and thus avoid
conflicts, teachers who acted as supervisors had
schedules for their assigned activities. Each team
was allowed three minutes to reach its first activity
and become organized. At a signal play was
started and continued for twenty minutes. When
time was called all games stopped and contestants
moved to their next game for another 'twenty
minute period. This continued until all games had
been played by each team.

Scoring

Space was left on the schedule given each cap-
tain for the scoring of points. As the captain
reached the location of an activity, the schedule
score card was handed to the score keeper. After
the twenty minute play period allotted for each
game, the scorer placed the score of the winner
and loser on the score cards. In the field events
five points were awarded for first, three for second,

The “B” teams played all
other “B” teams while the “A” teams played only
“A” teams. The same games were played by both
groups. S'ucteen activities were in progress all
afternoon. The following activities were engaged
1n:

Volley Ball Softball
Aerial Darts Corner Kick Ball
Tether Ball Circle Dodge Ball

Field events (boys and girls were separated for
this event) :

Boys Girls
Running Broad Jump Running Broad Jump
8-lb. Shot Put 6—1b. Shot Put

Football Throw Basketball Throw

Relays: Chariot relay, rope skipping relay, and
shuttle standing broad jump relay.

i

Awards

To determine the winners of the day, points
were scored for each activity participated in, and
these were totaled at the completion of play. The
“A” college team and the “B” college team re-
ceiving the highest number of points when scores
were totaled, were declared the day’s winners.
Each member of each' of the two first place colleges
received a blue ribbon. Second and third place
winners were similarly awarded with red and
white ribbons.

After play was over everyone went into the gym
for an hour of dancing and conversation after
which awards were made and every one went
home happily from an afternoon of fun and many
new acquaintances.

This play day has been carried on for the past

five years.

RECREATION

WORLD
AT
PLAY

“EXCELLENT family rec-
reation can be had by
visiting the various world
famous museums of one’s
city as a family group,” suggests the bulletin issued
by the Chicago Recreation Commission. Speaking
of Chicago’s museums, the bulletin continues,
“Boys and girls of school age find immense en joy-
ment at the Museum of Science and Industry, the
Chicago Museum of Natural History, the Shedd
Aquarium, the Adler Planetarium, the Art Insti-
tute, Chicago Academy of Sciences, and the Chi—
cago Historical Society. Fathers and mothers,
aunts and uncles, too, will get a kick out of the
special exhibits, the movies, lectures and other at-
tractions that make these spots of education and
culture among the most pleasurable places to visit
in the city.

Museum for Family
Recreation

NEGRO HISTORY WEEK
will be celebrated in 1946
in the week beginning
February IO. Negro His-
tory Week was first celebrated in 1926 as an occa—
sion for public exercises inviting special attention
to the accomplishments of the Negro.

Further information may be secured from the
Association for the Study of Negro Life and His-
tory, 1538 Ninth Street, N.W'., W'ashington, D. C.

Negro History
Week

 

THE CITY DIVISION of
Recreation of Cleveland,
Ohio, the Board of Edu—
cation, and the American
Red Cross cooperated in a “Learn-to-Swim” pro-
gram in which nIOre than 1,600 children took part.
During the week of April 23, 1945, a “Learn-to—
Swim” Festival was held in, order that the parents
of the children might have an opportunity to see
the progress they had made. The festival, which
was held at five of the recreation centers, consisted
of a water pageant, water ballet, and demonstra—

A Learn-to-Swim
Festival

JANUARY 1946

Brotherhood Week

Our Fall Specialty 1

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

tions of different styles of swimming. A second
festival was held last August.

THE Thirteenth Annual
Observance of Brother-
hood Week, sponsored by
the National Conference of Christians and Jews,
will be held February 17—24, 1946. The theme will
be “In Peace as in War—Teamwork.”

Every school and college throughout the na-
tion will participate in the observance. Material
adapted to each level in the school is now available
in the form of plays, posters'and book lists and
other types of literature. For this material and
other information write the National Conference
of Christians and Jews, Inc., 381 Fourth Avenue,

New York 16, N. Y.

“SEE NATURE in all its
splendor” is the invita-
tion offered by the Win—
ona Municipal Recreation Board. “Join a group
from the W’ est or East Recreation Center and take
at least one Saturday hike during the season. Get
in the hike!”

“EvERY full time Pro-
gram Supervisor on the
City Recreation Staff is a
subscriber to the RECREATION magazine,” states
the Factual Report of the City’s Municipal Recrea-
tion Department, Mobile, Alabama. “The Depart-
ment subscribes to the bi—weekly bulletin service
and distributes the material to the various Super-
visors when the material deals with their respective
programs.”

NOTE: Reports such as these make very good
reading!

A Good Report!

541

542 WORLD AT PLAY

Cleveland Crafts

I646 Hayden Avenue
Cleveland l2I Ohio

Watch for the CLEVELAND CRAFTS exhibit

-of handicraft materials at the annual Na-
tional Recreation Congress at BOOTH No.8.

If you cannot be there, write for our

1946—Spring Catalogue

CLEVELAND CRAFTS
I646 Hayden Avenue

Cleveland I2I Ohio

Presenting the Vermont State Symphony
Orchestra—On November 15th, at the City
Hall, the Montpelier Recreation Department pre-
sented the Vermont State Symphony Orchestra in
a program which included selections from Haydn,
Grieg, Prokofieff, Strauss, and \Villiam Osborne.

Recreation for the Blind in Durham, N. C.—
Sponsored jointly by the Lions Club and the De-
partment of Public Recreation, weekly gatherings
were held for the blind at the St. Philip’s Parish
House. Following the business sessions, an hour
of social recreation was enjoyed. On the last
Thursday evening of each month, a supper meet—
ing was held with the group actively entering into
the fun and fellowship. Free passes to the City
Swimming Pools were provided the group with
the stipulation that they may be accompanied by a
guide. Bowling is enjoyed by a small group and
plans are being made for the formation of a club.
At intervals, picnics and parties were planned for
both the white and Negro groups with members of

the Recreation Department staff directing the ac-
tivities.

A Living Memorial for Warren, Pennsyl-

vania—The Pa rent-Teacher Council of KVarren,

l-‘ennsylvania, has formed a corporation and started
a fund raising campaign for a living memorial.

For some time the citizens of Warren had looked
with longing eyes at a fourteen-acre piece of prop-
erty thought to be a desirable site for a memorial
stadium, recreation building, and athletic field.
When a local citizen, Albert Rastau, purchased
the land, members of, the P.T.A. Council called
upon him and asked him what he intended to do
with the property. A few days later Mr. Rastau
called the president of the Council and informed
her that he would-turn the deed over to. the
Council provided plans were made for its use
within one year as a war memorial.

Graduate Fellowship Award Announced -——~
Delta Psi Kappa announced its Graduate Research
Fellowship for 1945-1946 with an award of $250
to a woman doing an outstanding piece of research
in the field of health and physical education. The
presentation will be made at the National Conven-
tion of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

Details about the award and application require-
ments may be secured from Professor Ruth B.
Glassow, University of \Visconsin, Madison, VVis-
consin. A brief description of the proposed study
must be received by Professor Glassow before
March I, 1946.

We Welcome Suggestions—The final sheet
of the Municipal Bulletin issued by the Recreation
Board of Winona, Minnesota. shows a picture of
a mail box with a little girl dropping a letter in it.
“What would you like to do during your leisure
time?” is the caption. “Tell us about it. \Ve shall
appreciate hearing from you.”

New Recreation Fields in Florida -— Three
cities in Florida have started construction on large
recreation fields. These are Fort Lauderdale with
eighty—five acres under construction, Tallahassee
with twenty acres, and Jacksonville with a $1, 500,-
000 project.

Recreation Plan for Toledo, Ohio—Under
this title a 93-page report was published in No-
vember covering Toledo’s long range recreation
plan. The report analyzes Toledo’s recreation
problem in respect to recreation areas and facili-
ties, program activities, managing authority, per-
sonnel, and financial support, and includes appro-

RECREATION

The STAR PERFORMER...
day or night

the finest performance...
under all playing conditions over...

the longest period of time. a

Von (

TSBORING HITS

1' Official size, weight. shape. balance
‘l Compression lonnod lapara Kapolr Center
.1 .’ Scuff-prool, slip-proof. tough rubber cover
r’ [tum wound— eahle oord yarn center
.' Completely water and weather proof
‘Perfeet Ilay or night visibility
.I' Ilnoquallorl durability on any playing surface

J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

MOO I. 25». Stone. to. Angela: II I 180 No. Wacker Drive. “WW” 6

JANUARY 1946

 

544 WORLD AT PLAY

 

-—:_._7_._—__._.-—..-——.——..———. _._.._.

AUDITORIUM AND ARENA BUILDERS

Install }

THE CARPENTER MONOLITHIC
CONCRETE FLOATING FLOOR
AND PIPING SYSTEM

Fifteen Years Constant Use

The All Purpose Floor I
Ice One Night . . . A Circus the Next I

Corpenter Installations Include Playland Casino, Rye, N. Y.;
U. S. Military Academy, West Point, N. Y.; llihbing Mo-
moeial Bldg., llibbing, Minn.; Chicago Arena, Chieago, lll.;
‘ University of Illinois, Champaign, lll., Cleveland Hoekoy
, Art-no. Cleveland: Mayo Clvle Audilorlum, Rochester, MInn.;
i Pan Paeifie Auditorium, Loo Angelea, Calif.; Pnllar Mo-
' morial Bldg., Sault Ste. Marie, Mleh.; Roekofolloe Plaza,
New York; Civie Auditorium, Great Falls, Moon; 3:13an

Memorial Auditorium, Buffalo, N. Y.; Ulino Arena, Wash-
ington, D. C.

I U. S. Potent 1,917,634 — Canadian Potent 332,575

Complete Engineering and
Construction Supervision Included

! E.R.CARPENTER
' 1560 Ansel Rd. #9 Cleveland 6, Ohio

priate recommendations within these fields.

The study was sponsored by the City of Toledo,
the Public Schools, the Catholic Parochial Schools,
the Metropolitan Park Board, and the Council of
Social Agencies. Copies of the report, which was
prepared by the National Recreation Association
and published by the Council of Social Agencies,
may be obtained from the Toledo Council of Social
Agencies, 406 Toledo Trust Building, Toledo 4.
Ohio. The price for single copies is $I.25. In lots
of 12 copies or more, a discount of 20 per cent
applies.

Reading Favorite Spare Time Diversion-—
To find out how people like to spend their free
hours, interviewer's from the National Opinion
Research Center of the University of Denver asked
a question of a miniature cross-section of the civil-
ian adult population in each of the seventeen cities
whose public libraries c00perated in the American
Library Association study.

The following questions were asked:

“What is one of your favorite ways of spending
your spare time ?”

41% say they prefer reading or a combination
of reading and other activities.

16% indicate their interests are in arts, crafts,
' or fine arts, such as playing the piano,
attending musical entertainments.

II% choose sports and out-of—door activities.

10% say they like to spend their spare time at—
tending the theater, movies, or concerts.

9% mention listening to the radio or playing
records.

13% mention other activities: lectures, study
courses, extension work, clubs, or church
work.

The survey included 2,1:4. confidential inter-
views about equally divided among the seventeen
cities.

An Old-Time Country Fair Goes “Modern”
—The fine craft creations of today are the heir-
looms of tomorrow. A preview of some of these
heirlooms of the future and a glimpse of how they
are made will be available to interested spectators
in Louisville, Kentucky; in Chicago, in Lafayette,
Indiana; and in New York during January and
February. The Little Loomhouse Country Fair
will show exhibits of handloomed textiles, a
weaver-in—action, and constructive information on
weaving techniques and patterns in a gala atmos—
phere patterned on the old-time country fair, com-
plete with days devoted to special groups. After
an advanced showing in Louisville, home of Con-
temporary Handwoven American Textiles, the
Fair will go to Chicago where Marshall Field will
play host from January 7 through January 26.
There will be a small exhibition at Purdue Uni-
versity during the conference of Indiana women
during the second week in January. In February
the Fair will “pitch its tents” in New York City.

. Material for Leaders—Fifteen new booklets
from the National Recreation Association on such
subjects as games, songs, dramatics, athletics,
sports, were put into the hands of each playground .
leader in Portland, Maine. The leaders used them
to great advantage, according to a report from the
Recreation Commission of Portland in its Annual

Report for 1944.

“Goin’ Fishin’?”--The Parks and Recreation
Division of the Department of Public Welfare in
St. Louis, Missouri, has three active fly and bait
casting clubs which use the lakes in three large

RECREATION

IKAAEltlcul’S
No. 1
SNNHAAAAHHCB

Makes Cleaning
Easier, BeautiRes
and Protects in One Operation

INERTOL COMPANY, INC.

Main Ottice and Factory ‘N«:stern Branch
HI Frelinghuysen Avenue 84 Sauth Furl!
Newar't 5. New Jersey " San Francisco 7, Cat”.

 

JANUARY 1946 545

U1

45-49 SO. HARRISON ST., EAST ORANGE, N. I.

RETAIL STORES
12 EAST 4lst ST., NEW YORK 17. N. Y.
915 SO. GRAND AVENUE, LOS ANGELES 15. CALIF.

H-

By ANNIE B. KERR

Four collections of stories with nationality
backgrounds. Delightful for reading about or
felling and authentic as resources for the

countries represented.

0 Candles in the Heart

0 Clear Shining After Rain

0 So Gracious is the Time
0 So Many Pathways

$|.25 each

9

THE WOM'ANS PRESS

600 Lexington Avenue New York 22, N. Y.

 

FORUMS BY AIR

Forums by Air

THIS MONTH the Division of University Exten-
sion, Massachusetts Department of Education.
inaugurates “The Massachusetts Plan” for educa-
tion by radio. This plan stems from a firm convic—
tion that the adaptation of certain functions of edu-
cation to radio is essential. It has become increas—
ingly evident that radio, as a means of communi-
cation, has a unique power to make the world’s'
great music, the ageless masterpieces of drama,
and the characters of literature, come alive over the
air waves. More than that, it is bringing the ever-
changing picture of world affairs to the radio list—
ener almost at the moment these changes are taking
place. Radio has helped to remove the barriers of
distance to the point where America can no longer
live as a nation within itself.

The Division has chosen the National Broad—
casting Company’s “University of the Air” series,
()m' Foreign Policy, as the first course to be of—
fered under the Massachusetts Plan in response to
the expressed desire of the public to have an op—
portunity to hear history in the making as told by
men and women who are making history. Students
following the Massachusetts Plan will listen to the
regular program, Our Foreign Polfry, each Satur-
day evening between 7 :00 and 7 :30 from the New
England Westinghouse Stations. These broadcasts
will be supplemented each week by another quar-
ter-hour broadcast on Saturday mornings from
0:15 to 9:30 on Radio Station \VBZ and VVBZA.
when an outstanding authority on foreign affairs
will comment on the network discussions, will help
to clarify problems of our foreign policy, will sug—
gest collateral readings and will otherwise assist

'the students in their appreciation of the problems

of government. Registered students will be sent
study materials and will have an opportunity to
qualify for college or professional credit by writing
papers on assigned t0pics and reports on the
broadcasts.

 

 

parks of the city. The Division maintains adequate
dock facilities and as soon as materials are avail-
able plans to install lighting equipment on the
docks.

The clubs are taking an active. interest in young
people and are sponsoring fishing activities to the
extent of providing equipment where it is neces—
sary. Junior _clubs are becoming active under the
direction of the older followers of Izaak Walton.

RECREATION

D

9,.

BEST by rssr

“Halal Statue "lbcttnt! Cu... inf.

    

-‘WW
I adrmhm‘m 
l ‘ ’

 

WINTARK‘FEATURES

Cordura" wound. Nine layers of materi—
als which produce proper aetionw-«pre»
serve uniform shape provide Surer grip.
This rugged construction also makes
WINTARK basketbal‘lg quisranrgbpmoi‘. (‘ ‘
washable and abrasian resist'aht.‘ ’ ‘ ' r ‘
‘ Rex trademark of lmi‘wnt Co.

 

APPROVED er

‘ NAT’L FEDERANON. «

AND ARMY~ NAVY

Id

)4 704% 36166 to 3346/

Like all WINTARK Equipment, it is the first and
last word in ruggedness combined with perfect
playing qualities. Designed in cooperation with
State Athletic Associations, it inherits all the
qualities required to deve10p skill and accuracy
in play—plus the exclusive patented features
of CORDURA“ construction. This means—the
greatest durability and economy in all WINTARK
Basketballs, Footballs, Soccerballs and Volley-
balls. The pOpular choice with players and
athletic directors throughout America.

ORIGINAL PIONEERS

The WEAVER Scholastic Playball and the
WINTARK Rubber Covered, Cord Wound
Basketball, were the FIRST balls of this type
introduced and successfully used.

WINTARK Polity Wins for Dealers - Write for Our latest Catalog

Visit Us At  N0.  National Recreation Congress

 
  
  
  

     
  

 9'   
iii-{5.  AMERICA'S [OREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT 

.1.  4216 w.ocnm AVENUE - CHICAGO 23,lll. 33:":

  

548 THE RURAL COMMUNITY PROGRAM OF MEROM INSTITUTE

THE°IMPROVED
RECREATIONAL

      

Designed in cooperation with leading
therapists and recreational directors.

STU RDY ° EASY—RU N Nl NG ' FOOLPROOF

Tubular steel frame' Camfartable,
3-way odiustoble chair, wark
table and pedal
wheel ' Simplified
saw mounting
with special safe-
by devices.

ONE WEEK
FREE TRIAL

Order now for early de-
livery. Write for descrip-
tive folder.

      
     
   
   
   
   
   
 
 

  
      
 

ls, ’5 ,, 3f

/ -
 COMPANY

  

5733 McPherson Avenue 0 St. Louis 12, M'H'wri

The Arts as Recreation

(Continued from page .521)

silkscreen process along the way—and is now put-
ting together 500 folios of the prints for schools,
libraries, museums and designers. They will be
used for study purposes, for exhibition, and as
designs for textiles and weaving—a brand new
contribution to the art and design field. And our
student will be well repaid——in cash among other
thingslhfor her interest in art as a leisure pursuit.
These are not isolated examples. You could
cite many others from your own experience.
Taking all the evidence and potentialities to—
gether, I am encouraged to believe that an empha-
sis on art as recreation, a broad program of self-
made music, arts and crafts and plays enriched
by ample opportunity of seeing and hearihg the
best that others can do, and an inventive and good
leadership which shows the way, can produce a
great cultural enterprise out of which will flow the

currents which inform the life of the community _

with dignity and meaning. And that for countless
more individuals, young and old, art—as recrea-
tion—and daily life can be joined in truly an. art
of living, one and indivisible and enduring.

The Rural Community

Program of Merom

Institute

MEROM, INDIANA, is a small town of 400 people
in southern Indiana. It was the site of Union
Christian College which was discontinued during
the depression period. In 1936 a number of agen-
cies of the Congregational Christian Church in
southern Indiana and Illinois took over the college
property and made,it the center for administration
of rural services to the area covered by these
agencies.

Merom is located within fifteen miles of the
center of population of the United States, and lies
in the general farming area south of the corn belt
and north of the cotton belt. It is a typical small
village-centered community with the usual village
organizations and services.

The development of rural services began with a
community program in recreation, partly because
recreation is a comparatively easy place to begin,
partly because the wholesome use of leisure time
is one of the acute problems during peace times in
village and country communities, and partly be—
cause a community that learns to play together
has taken a long step in preparation for working
together. In addition to these reasons, Merom
chose recreation as a starting point because three
factors were present which leaders felt must always
be taken into account in planning for community
action: (:1) There was a need. (21 There were
resources to meet the need. (3) Community at-
titudes Were right.

The attitude of the community as a whole was
strongly favorable to a program which would pro-
vide recreation for the young people who were at
that time unable to attend college or to find em—
ployment because of the depression, although there
was a somewhat vociferous opposition from a few
of the pillars of the local churches.

The program, however, did not stop with the
young people. Convinced that play is essential to
the human spirit at all ages, community nights
were arranged for family groups, and became the
unifying basis for many other serious community
enterprises. The very young were cared for sepa-
rately, but ultimately high school, older youth,
mature adults and grandparents all played to-
gether.

The recreation program was not entirely suc-
'cessful, however, as some failures were met with

RECREATION

 

TE FIIIV 1mm 0mm

BY E. 0. HARBIN O A thousand pages just for fun. Here is an invaluable manual on parties
and games. All sorts of suggestions for entertaining all ages. whether you have a hundred children
or just one to amuse. 2400 ideas to make good times better .° . . the perfect answer to keeping
your group looking forward to each new celebration. $2.75

 THE CUKESBI/BY P11377300)?
:5

BY A- M. Depew 0 Fifty-two gay parties of every kind for every time. from
‘ the first day of school to graduation eve —all types of entertainment completely
planned and budgeted. $1.75

THE CUKESBIIRY .S' T (INT 3001!

BY A- M- Depew 0 600 simple. spur-of~the~moment stunts. easy for children
to learn and perform. $1.75

THE CUKESBI/RY EAME 3001!

BY A. M. DBPBW 0 Whether the occasion calls for hilarious group games or quiet enjoyment
for a few. here is a classified and well chosen selection of more than 600 ways to play games. $1.75

PI! (war 06' Y

By E. 0. HARBIN 0 Now in its 100th thousand. PHUNOLOGY is a complete compendium of
entertainment for every time there is an excuse for a party. $l.75

J IINIUB PA R T Y 3001!

, BY BERNICE WELLS CARLSON 0 Wonderful for the children. and a blessing for teachers.
this helpful book presents twenty-four parties for juveniles that are gay and different. $1.50

FOR' HOME. SCHOOL. CHURCHES AND CLUBS—WHEREVER PEOPLE MEET TO HAVE FUN

    
  

    

 

Order from
O ABINGDON-COKESBURY PRESS O
810 Broadway. Nashville 2. Tenn.

JANUARY 1946 549

550 A RECREATION EXECUTIVE THINKS ABOUT POSTWAR RECREATION

 

DIAMOND PITCHING SHOES

Many models of Diamond Official Pitching
Shoes offer fans a wide selection. Drop-

forged from high grade steel—will not chip
or break. Carefully balanced.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and
Official Horseshoe Courts

“7 CALK
' Ellcglivggyl-POE co.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 
   
 

*“r: h‘"
fu/‘b—‘l

in efforts to broaden the range of activities. Arts
and crafts were never successfully developed. pri-
marily because it was not possible to secure cap-
able, enthusiastic, and contagious leadership. The
same was true of community singing and dra—
matics. ,

The recreation program was used as a basis for
the deve10pment of a cooperative self—help program
to provide employment during the depression and
for the successful promotion of a home ownership
effort among others. —— Based on an article by
Shirley E. Greene, “Adventures in Rural Com—
munity Action,” published in Social Action for

May Is, 1945-

Children's Theater Goes Traveling

(Continued from page 536)

Children’s Theater Committee composed of women
prominent in the city’s civic and church affairs.
This volunteer group acts in an advisory capacity,
helping to select plays and advising on audience
reaction. Then the City Division of Recreation
with the financial aid of Miller & Rhoads takes
over. Try-outs are announced, roles cast, and the

   
 

A Recreation Executive
Thinks About

Postwar Recreation

UST A THOUGHT or two more on the subject of
J postwar recreation. It seems to me that some-
thing must be. done to offset the notion of the
teen-ager that no play is worthwhile unless it is
in a crowd. Some evenings at our youth center
dances, when other dances have taken away the
crowds, the “sophisticates” come in, look around,
see some fifty boys and girls in the room and slink
away as if they were exposed to some contagion.
On normal nights when the crowd is around 600
the dancers come trouping in as if bliss were
spelled mob. The principal of the high school
here deplores this fact. He says that his pupils are
unhappy at a dance or football game unless “the
whole world is there.” The head of a music school
told me that when the war started she naturally
lost a great number of her violin pupils. As soon
as the young children saw this falling off they left
en masse.

What sort of creative play can ever come out of
this mob recreation? How can the boy get to know
himself and his neighbors? It seems to me that
physiology teaches us that we human beings are at
our lowest intellectual and moral ebb when we are
in a crowd and yet this feeling of being a part of a
mob seems to be all the young people need for
happiness. It is as if they are trying to lose instead
of find themselves. After awhile there won’t be
any individuality left for them to explore.

What is the answer? Is it more emphasis on
home play? A return to such simple activities as a
hike in the woods with one or two friends? A

game of chess with father? I wonder.

—Letter from Josephine Blackstock, Director Play-
ground Board of Oak Park, Oak Park, Illinois.

 

actual production begins. In the plays children
take child roles and adults take adult roles. Their
time and talent, like that of the technical workers,
is'volunteered in the interest of many children
of the city who might otherwise be denied the op-
portunity of enjoying drama.

Publicity

Children learn of the productions through vari-
ous means. The Recreation Division has found
that postal cards sent to past patrons of the chil-

BECREA TlON

CHILDREN’S THEATER GOES TRAVELING 551

   
    

o

,- .. «we——
.’ Q . I  i
' . | I 0 .
.
- . ..i a
- I

 

- nocnertyz

INC.

BOYS CLUBS o
CHURCHES 0

CITY RECREATION
SERVICE CENTERS

and U50 clubs wen! wild over the game!

0 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0

 

"" W1r‘7‘  _=='."’
._ ‘. p u- . . __ ‘0  "‘_ o‘

p

4 'i
._ l 4 ‘. UT. -..
. . _-‘ ‘ . I .1 -,.4l

all over the country are adapting this new way of bowling that
requires no pin-boys bu! is played and scored the same as
regulation bowling. Our Service men and women in camps

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY H

TWO-WAY BOWLING OOHPORATION

Telephone LExington 2-8828 ' o

Y.M.C.A’s and Y.W.C.A's o SCHOOLS
o FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION

“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

tional information and literature describing alley.

Name ................................................................. ..

Address ............................................................ ..
City .......................................... .. S:a:e................

 

NEW YORK. N. Y. e

 

“ff/ff/fI/lfl/f/f/ff/f/fl/fffff/lf/fl033080083000000030

dren’s theater, whose names and addresses are
taken when they apply for tickets, is one of the
most valuable methods of notifying the public and
insuring a full house. In order not to limit the
opportunity to those who have already seen the
Aladdin Players’ shows, posters and handbills also
are distributed in the schools, community centers,
and playgrounds.‘ '

The newspapers have been very cooperative in
using features and news stories on the cast, scen-
ery, committees and other parts of the program,
as well as pictures which are taken by the Recre-
ation Division at early rehearsals for advance pub—
licity. Radio stations obligingly use spot announce—
ments just before the presentations and one station
has offered regular fifteen minute spots for chil-
dren’s theater programs. ‘

JANUARY 1946

Miller 8: Rhoads devotes much of its commer-
cial advertising space in the newspapers and on the
air to advertising children’s theater productions.
Prior to each new play the cast and technical staff
are thanked for their part in making the play a
success by a large spread with pictures and names.

Already about 10,000 children have seen chil-
dren's theater plays. Theater lovers in Richmond
are hopeful that this adventure will be the incen-
tive to a larger and more extensive program for
the city. The dream of a municipal building as a
memorial to the talents of our youth and for the
enjoyment of thousands is a thing to be realized
in the future. Meanwhile, through cooperation and
the desire to make drama available to its children,
Richmond forges ahead, each year striving for a
higher plane of recreation for all her pe0ple.

552 BALL SCOTCH

STUDENT DANCE SHOES

 

BasicI all-leatherl nylon sewed shoes for every
type recreational and physical fitness program.

Handmade throughout.

Acro-Ballet Sandals

Sueded glove elk in fawn, black, white ........ ..$l.00

Softest kidskin in black or white .................... ..$l.25
Style number (1)

Hero-Ballet Practice Pump in black, white kidskin, $1.75
Style number (6)

Acre-Ballet Advanced Pump

in black, white kidskin ...................................... ..$3.00
Style number (11)

Special prices for class group orders.
Write for details.

PRIMA

TH EATRICAL CO

Columbus l5. Olav
112mg”! 0/ Qualify :7; ll. u

 

Indoor Carnival

(Continued from page 511)

facing the contestant. A short distance is measured
off between contestant and basket. Object: To
toss tend cards into basket, one at a time. Score:

5 points.

Booth Number Eleven—"Rack the Hat"

A regular hatrack is used and from a short dis-
tance an attempt is made to “rack the hat.” Any
type of hat can be used. Five attempts, IO points
for each successful one.

Booth Number Twelve—"Bouncing Ball'I

A container is set on a chair or in the center of
a taut sheet. The participant is given live tennis or
ping-pong balls. The object, from a distance, is
to bounce the ball on the floor once at such an
angle that it drops into the container. Five points
for each successful try.

Ball Scotch

BALL SCOTCH is a cousin of hopscotch. The object
of the game is to bounce the ball from square
to square in the order in which they are numbered.

Use the width of the sidewalk as the width of
the court, and three cement squares as its length;
divide it with chalk lines in the hopscotch manner.

Bounce the ball into square one, and on the re-
bound direct it to bounce into the square num-
bered two, and proceed to the last square. Use
only one bounce to a square and hit the squares in
order without any intervening bounces in or out of
court. Lines are good in determining whether a
square is hit. Players can step in the court as
needed.

Beginners can start their second turn with the
number missed. Experts can play an elimination
type in which each player has one turn in an “in-
ning” and the player who proceeds to the highest
number wins a point.

As skill is achieved the court may be drawn up
to include more numbers or different sized squares
or different shapes of targets—Frances Schaar,
University of Illinois, Chicago, Illinois. From the
September, 1945, issue of The Journal of Health
and Physical Education.

Booth Number Thirteen——"Keep Your Beans Dry"

A wash tub is filled with water and a small tin
pie plate is floated on top. A few feet away, the
contestant stands with ten beans in his hand and,
tossing onebean at a time, tries to toss them on
the floating pie plate. This isn’t as easy as it might
appear, for the beans have an aggravating ten-
dency to bounce off the plate and into the water.
For each bean remaining on the plate, 10 points
are scored.

Booth Number Fourteen—"Nail Driving Contest"

A solid wooden plank or beam and a N0. 20
common nail are used in this contest. The con-
testant is given a hammer and tries to drive the
nail flush with the board. If he does it in seven
tries he scores 15 points. In six tries—20 points.
In five tries—25 points. For each extra try over
seven, deduct. one point from I 5.

RECREATION

INDOOR CARNIVAL ' 553

There’s Nothing “Just Like” a Wilson

The modern thinking—the experience—the in-
genuity—the sports “know how” that 1Wilson puts
into equipment for modern play are strictly
‘WILSON. That’s why there can never be sports
equipment “just like” ‘Wilson. It’s the “LAST
\VORD” in modern equipment for American
sports and games as they are played today..
\Vilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York

and other leading cities.

Wuhan

SPORTS EQUIPMENT
1*

Let’s a” 5005! 1173 "Mar Memoriafs
Tim! Live” Campaign

ir
IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

  

Booth Number Fifteen—"Hit the Baby" Besides the above-mentioned stunts and activi-
ties, there were others also, such as, “Wheel of
Fortune,” “Dr0p Beans in Bottle,” “Ring the
Nail” (jar covers tossed at protruding nails on a
board), “Chuck-a-Luck,” “Dart Throw,” “Golf
Putting.” And, of course, a Fortune-Telling Booth
always attracts attention and a line of customers.
For the Halloween Carnival a “Pin the Tail on the
300+}, Number Six+een__"euessing" Cat” while blindfolded was held and a “Bobbing
for Apples” activity was carried on in the center
of the gymnasium.

A regular shelf-like arrangement with com-
pactly-filled cloth dolls sitting on the shelves. A
gymnasium mat is hung behind the shelf to form
a cushion for the impact of the balls. Object: To
knock the. doll over with a baseball from a speci-
fied distance. Three tries—Io points each.

A jar is filled with beans or pennies. An attempt
is made to guess the correct number. Those guess-

ing within 100 of the correct total receive 30 points. The variety and number of activities at this Car-
W'lthm 200 Of Correct tOWL—25 Pomts- lVlthm nival, as well as the interest and c00peration of the
300—20 points. volunteers assured its success. The above program

could easily be adapted to almost any situation and

Boolh Number Sevenleen—"Chid‘e" Feed" provide entertainment and fun for all!

The contestant uses a soda straw with which
he attacks a pile of beans. By “pulling” on the

straw, a bean attaches itself to the other end. To B 5 WI TH A FUTURE

' . ' ' ' ’ Girl Scout professional positions in all parts of the country
ObleCt ' To pmk  one bean at a" tune. 11:1 this for qualitied women with Bachelor Degree. leadership and
manner and dep051t it on a plate. Time limit: 30 cum? “all experience-

seconds. Score 5 points for each bean placed on the Wm” Gm“ SCOUTS' PERSONNEL DIVISION

plate.

155 East 44th Street New York 17, N. Y.

 

JANUARY 1946

554 RECREATION GOES POLITICAL

  

. gac‘ #0”! [/18 War
THE NISSEN

TRAMPOLINE

puts the popular gym and playground Sport of
TRAMPOLINING back in “civvies” '

O Trained and conditioned wartime
thousands . .

0 Now ready for peacetime’s phys. ed.
and playground millions . . .

O A sound, scientific sport with a
lively-action appeal.

Write for Free Literature

GRISWOLD 8: NISSEN

P. O. Box 376 Cedar Rapids, Iowa

      
       
       
   
   
   
   
       

Friends Through Recreation

( Continued from page 530)

Puppetry is a natural held for using nationality
groups, as is the storytelling hour. There are, per—
haps, no better background materials on which to
construct puppet plays than the legends and fairy
tales that have come into our culture by way of
other countries. Many of these have been set down
by such tellers of tales as the Brothers Grimm or
Hans Christian Andersen. Others, or variants of
the published versions, may well live in the tradi-
tions of the family around the corner from the

playground, and members of that household will,
perhaps, find in those stories a thing they can offer
with pride to their native-born friends. Details of
authentic costuming for puppets-or for live act-
ors, as far as that goes—and for settings in the
puppet theater can come from some member of a
nationality group. When members of a recreation
department in California were seeking first hand
information about the interior of a house in a small
Italian town as it would have looked centuries ago,
they discovered a small tradesman who had spent
his boyhood in that very village and whose family

had lived there—in the same house—for hundreds
of years.

Storytelling, too, especially where the adult
storyteller encourages the youngsters at playground
or play center to tell stories of their own, can draw
on the wealth of legends familiar in the homes of
people who have come to this country from other
lands. These tales may, in turn, lead naturally and
easily to simple dramatizations of this material.

NOTE: Part II of Friends Thrquyh Recreation will be
published in the February 1946 issue of RECREATION“.

Recreation Goes Political

By KATHERINE STROUD

ANEW WRINKLE in politics is the one worked
out by the young people who make their
homes at Altgeld Gardens—war housing develop-
ment in the Calumet area, Operated by the Chicago
Housing Authority. Candidates campaign on a
platform of recreational interests for election to the
office of “Commissioner” in the Altgeld Junior
State.

In the Preamble to their Constitution they state:
“\Ve, the youths of the Altgeld Gardens Commu-
nity, join our hearts, our minds, and our hands to
work together for our entertainment and for our
physical, mental, and spiritual development and for
the preservation and betterment of the property
and reputation of our community.”

Commissioners of Music and Ari

“Citizens”——all those who are unmarried and
between the ages of thirteen and twenty-one——are
entitled to vote, and if they are high school stu-
dents, are eligible for office. Elections held in
August placed in office Commissioners of Music,
Art, Dancing, Athletics (girls and boys have separ-
ate Commissioners in this case), Woodcraft,
Newspaper, and Labor, along with a Governor,
Lieutenant-Governor, Secretary of State, and
Treasurer of State. The Constitution further pro-
vides that additional Commissioners may be elected
later on, should new interest and activity groups
be organized. This can be accomplished if twenty—
live persons so petition.

Each of the Commissions, according to the
Constitution, “shall encourage, promote and aid
individuals and groups in the development and
advancement” of the particular activity with which
it is concerned.

Altgeld Gardens has a population of fifteen hun-
dred families, or more than seven thousand indi-
viduals. Well over a thousand of these are “citi-
zens” of the Junior State. Since Altgeld is lo-
cated at some distance from other established com-
munities, it is particularly important for the young
people to take part in making their own interest
outlets. They are already doing a splendid job of
this and have made intensive use of the commu-
nity facilities contained in Altgeld’s “Children’s
Building.”-——~Reprinted from Recreation News,
Chicago Recreation Commission.

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 555

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker 1

 

MAGAZINES
Safety Education, November 1945

How School-Age Pedestrian Accidents Occur, Eliza-
beth Hayes

Journal of Health and Physical Education, November 1943

Competition "as a Factor in Learning, Leo 'Miller

Writing Scripts for Better Teaching Films, Frederica
Bernhard

Postwar Trends in Physical Education Programs

An Ideal Outdoor Tennis Practice Board, Elizabeth
Beall and Margaret Verkruzen

The Function of the Teacher in Modern Dance Com-
position, Gertrude L. Lippincott

Parents’ Magazine, November 1945

Memorials That Live
American Forests, November 1945

How to Plan and Maintain a Memorial Forest
The Camping Illagazine, November 1945

Organized Camping—Already a Profession, Frederick
L. Guggenheimer

Let’s Have Fun! Edgar T. Stephans

Day Camping, Reynold E. Carlson

Program Committee Report, A. C00per Ballentine

Workshop on Camping for the Handicapped

Hygeia, December 1945
A Purchasing Guide for Toys, Lois K. Ide
Scouting, December 1945

Scout Week, February 8-14, l946—Some Helpful
Program Ideas, Wes Klusmann

Parks and Recreation, November-December 1945

Plan for Conservation, Clayton F. Smith
Rescue \Vork at Pools and Beaches, Arno P. Wittich

PAMPHLETS
Backyard Block -Playlots
Hiking for Recreation

Chicago Recreation Commission, 139 North Clark
Street, Chicago 2, Illinois

Accident Facts, 1945 Edition

National Safety Council, Inc., 20 North Wacker
Drive, Chicago.6, Illinois

Youth in the Rural Community

Youth Section, American Country Life Association,
734 Jackson Place NW, Washington 6, D. C. 10¢

Official Ice Hockey Guide—1946

A. S. Barnes and Co., 67 West 44th Street, New
York 18, N. Y. 50¢

Parks, Beaches and Recreational Facilities for Los Angeles
County

Report of County Citizens’ Committee, Haynes Foun-

dation, 2324 South Figueroa Street, Los Angeles 7,
California

Recreation—-A National Economic Asset

Federal Security Agency, Office of Community War
Semces, Division of Recreation, Washington, D. C.

Suggested School Health Policies

Health Education Council, 10 Downing Street, New
York 14, N. Y. 25¢

Improved Family Living Through Improved Housing

The Woman’s Foundation, 10 East Fortieth- Street,
New York, N. Y.

IAN UARY 1946

é .

spam tantrum

-' of sport in -- .es-
' -! 'cm: no and Amateur Em:-
1-"4 Softball, in Universitic'
? 3- ,n o' l High Schools. in ‘
~‘ a." lo-Justrial Rec -'
'1; "3 "lsmie ..'

r \

"t. |. '

l a.
. l..| ‘
.4...

I
-
I L.‘ .n . up!

n f '

.. @4467” WW I” §§:§{.§.Z_':_-‘;;;'§:;332522.:

C‘NCINNA I I4 OHIO ll 5 A

 

Music Week in Recreation Departments

( Continued from page 538)
He reported that the opportunity had been greatly
appreciated by the public and had brought in much
favorable comment from parents, musical instruct-
ors and musical organizations. This was St. Paul’s
first attempt at an amateur “musical round-up”
and it will be repeated on a large scale this year,
with wider cooperation among the musical forces
of the city.

Alton, Illinois, long in the forefront of Music
Week participation by the recreation authorities,
gave an example again last spring of the way to
organize a medium-sized city so as to derive from
the occasion the maximum benefit for year-round
musical development. Here the Recreation De-
partment, Ethel M. Paul, Executive Secretary,
worked hand in hand with the Business and Pro-
fessional Women’s Club in staging a series of 274
programs, large and small. These reached service
clubs, churches, schools, hospitals, recreation cen-
ters and industries, as well as a variety of indi-
vidual groups. The'response of audiences and par-

I . ‘.| Illa-II

556 A FAMILY FUN WORKSHOP

 

you Gan Use

THE JOURNAL 0! HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact. on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year raport thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year. '

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth Stu,I N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

ticipants confirmed Miss Paul’s opinion that “Our
city is sold on Music Week and looks forward to
it each year.” Mayor Malone’s proclamation com-
mended the sponsoring organizations for their pro-
motion of music as a common interest in a demo-
cratic world.

What can be done in_still smaller places is illus-
trated by the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, where
a cluster of six communities appointed a joint
Music Week Committee, headed by Mrs. Fred C.
Stoyle of Houghton. A Hymn Festival the Open-
ing Sunday filled to overflowing the largest church
in the Copper Country. Recalling sometime later
its impresssive quality, Mrs. Stoyle wrote, “I wish
you might have heard that group singing ‘A
Mighty Fortress Is Our God.’ Such melody and
such harmony! It was truly a hymn of assur-
ance, of faith and hope for the peace to come.”

The National Music Week Committee always
recommends that participation be suited to condi-
tions and schedules be neither overcrowded nor
over-elaborate. More and more the local chairmen
and workers are learning to highlight through
Music Week what has been accomplished during
the year and to stimulate “hope, faith and assur-
ance” of what may be accomplished, musically, in
the future.

All municipal recreational directors should ap—
praise the value of Music Week as a means of

encouraging local musical activity throughout the

year. It can be, also, a beneficent influence in pro-
moting the cooperative spirit among musical or-
ganizations, and between such organizations and
others, which utilize musiein an-Iincidental Way.

A Family Fun Workshop

ASUCCESSFUL FAMILY recreation workshop came
into being last spring in Austin, Texas. as a
result of an idea which came to the chairman of
recreation of the Parent—Teacher Association of
Wooldridge Grade School. She took her idea to
the head of the Women’s Physical Education De—
partment of the University of Texas who received
it enthusiastically. The next step was consultation
with the-City Recreation Department, and then
came action!

A co-chairman was chosen and committees ap-
pointed. Together they developed a plan for a
unique adult recreation project in family education.
From it the participants were to derive benefits
that they could use not only in the home but in the
community as well.

Throughout April six workshop meetings were
held—five at the Austin Athletic Club and the
final one at W'ooldridge School. Each meeting was
devoted to a certain phase of family recreation:
music, games, folk and square dancing, handcrafts,
family dramatics, and family play. The project was
widely publicized by the newspapers, the Austin
City Council, and the school children.

At the first meeting a professor from the Uni-
versity’s School of Music discussed ways in which
families might enjoy music together—playing rec—
orjs, listening to the radio, singing, and the like.
All the participants were given mimeographed
sheets containing lists of songs and family radio
programs, and the meeting closed with group sing—
ing. On game night, lists of various types of
games, plus a bibliography, were given out, and
then many of the games were actually played.

The folk and square dancing night had the big-
gest turnout. Austin’s pioneer music group fur-
nished the music, and there were squares for “seven
and seventy.” A hundred and fifty dancers were
on the floor at a time, with about that many more
on the sidelines.

Handcraft night was the finest program 'ot' all,
chiefly because experts in many crafts contributed
their skill and knowledge. Groups of men, women,
and young people gathered around tables where
every imaginable activity went on—rlag—doll mak—
ing, fancy paper-cutting, linoleum block printing,
soap carving, pottery making, clay modeling. weav-
ing, wood carving, and many more.

Family dramatics night featured charades, story-
telling, circle storytelling, and other group pas-
times. Family play night, the final meeting, was

RECREATION

 

THE SCHOOL TAKES A HAND

held at the school. More than a thousand people
came, and had a wonderful time. There was no
charge except for soft drinks and‘ice cream.

Not only the school but the school yard was
swarming with activity. Outside there were re-
lays, softball, tug-of-war, dodge ball, boxing.
horseshoe pitching, and table tennis. Inside there
were square dancing, checkers, storytelling, games.
a marionette show, and a singsong.

Throughout the series of workshOps the physi-
cal education department furnished groups of girls
who supervised the play of the younger children.
Each night too, P.T.A. hostesses met the guests.

From start to finish the whole project was a
marked success. There was no cost except for a
little mimeographing and for the materials used on
handcraft night—From an article in the Novem-
ber, 1945, issue of National Parent-Teacher.

The School Takes a Hand

(Continued from -page .531)
talks first? What do you say when leaving? Who

sits down first? Who stands? Why should you
listen well?” It was interesting to see how the
boys performed such little courtesies as opening
doors, and removing hats, at first self-consciously
but later on with greater self-assurance and dig-
nity. Each group was impressed with the courte-
ous reception, the discussion with the director, and
their own attitude changed, as they met courtesy
in their meetings. It can be truly said, that the
people interviewed were delighted with the visit-
ing groups and commented favorably about them.
(Not the least value of the project lay in the
knowledge the teacher gained of her pupils and of
their needs.)

After each interview, the group discussed the
information gained, wrote a report and put it into
a classbook. Finally when the year drew to its
close, they combined all the facts into a program.
The gym teacher helped them with an exhibition
of games which are usual on the playground. The
safety teacher summarized safety rules. The infor-
mation was woven together and presented in dra-
matic form as their final program to the parents.
Thus, they brought the problem directly home. One
of the youngsters summed up: “You don’t need
to get into trouble this summer.” —

They didn’t get into trouble. Not those young-
sters! For they played safely and happily through
the long summer—played and learned under com-

petent leadership to use their hands and energies
constructively.

JANUARY 1946

557

  
  
 
 
       
   
  

  

\
we

EQUIPMEN

elm“ RAWLINGS
Jade/z ATHLETIC GOODS

404 3% 3M

Available from

  


.-
\:§’ 7
. -r

.¢
512%.?

   

MANUFACTURING (:0.

ST lOUIS ° MISSOURI

Creative Recreation
(Continued from page 523)

Although few of these men will actually become
commercial artists, this work has particular value.
It lays the foundation for the creation of attitudes
toward activity, good work habits and creative
achievement. Although the individuals themselves
may not realize it, we who have worked in the
hospital setting as American Red Cross recreation
workers know that often the vitality and appeal
of one man’s poster advertisement may be the
factor which has awakened another patient from
his lethargy and enticed him from his aloneness on
the ward to make his initial entry into the Recre—

. ation Hall activities.

 2 A f:
M) p-   gem MATS-PADS
 ._ xi; ' 3’ BOXING RINGS
' g l  ' TRMNING nos, no covsns, use am
.; ' "-  uses AND KINDRED sommem...
. ‘t a."  ("My amwwmarmu..m. an...“
a a 3)   unmitiigb;::qmpmsur comrmv

a"
:5 ‘ r: w 355 HIIQUI‘II’I I'OIO DU L56. WIS.

 

 
 
  
  

for 1V9 w [aid/07

558 BEATING SWORDS INTO PLOUGHSHARES

Beating Swords into

Ploughshares
By Comdr. NATHANL. MALLISON, USNR

APAN IS A VERY mountainous country. Many
J of its islands rise abruptly from the sea. Tun-
nels are numerous; gardens, in many instances,
are terraced; cities are often stretched al'ong nar—
row shore lines or rise, tier on tier up—the sides
of hills.

To a Welfare and Recreation Officer, searching
out suitable sites for Fleet Recreation Centers,
such terrain is anything but encouraging. But,
sailors must stretch their legs ashore, and they do
get tired of buying souvenirs and tramping the
streets of bombed out cities.

Sasebo, the former location of a large Jap naval
base, has a fine harbor. Many of our ships use it.
Apparently, the only level ground was near a
microsc0pic air strip. Two softball diamonds were
set up there, one for Marines and one for the
Navy. More land was still needed to accommodate
liberty parties.

Today, a Seabee officer met a few of us from the
ships with a couple of jeeps and took us through a
narrow cut in the rocky hills to a spot, hidden
from ordinary view in the harbor, that had been a
yard for the construction of Kamikaze (suicide)
boats. It fronted on a little bay opening on the
opposite side of the hilly peninsula. Scores of the
little speed boats, meant to carry damage to our
ships and death to their pilots, were awaiting
launching.

Sketches were soon being made, using the hood
of a jeep for a drawing board. Here four softball
diamonds, there the boxing arena, a Chief Petty
Officers’ Club on that little hill, this boat shed a
club building for the enlisted men. Let’s see, we’ll
need some basketball courts, a tennis court or two,
facilities for volley ball and badminton. Almost
forgot about the barnyard golf! What do you think
about a few plywood kayaks on the beach? Can do!

Tomorrow, working parties from the ships and
some CB’s with bulldozers, trucks and hand tools
will arrive. The Chiefs will want to put the finish-
ing touches on their club in person.

Some Jap prisoners of war will be brought in to
move their queer little boats over to a place where
there will be a nice Halloween bonfire. Next week,
it will be “Batter up!” “two points for me,” “side
out—service goes over,” on the site where a few
months ago, the little yellow men were figuringput
how to hurl a thousand pounds of -high5’explo’sivei

A Program Carries On

(Continued from page 515)
is the opportunity to participate in the final c011-

cert presented in one of the park music centers.
Last summer Junior Programs brought another
musical treat to the children of the community.
With the cooperation of the University of Wash-
ington, it was arranged that the eminent Hungar-
ian pianist, Andor Foldes, should present a con-
cert designed especially for a junior audience. All

interested children were invited to attend, without'

charge. This was the first affair of its kind ever
given in Seattle but it proved so successful that
the organization is already looking for another
opportunity to “treat” young Seattlites. .

Still very much in step with the times, Seattle
Junior Programs has created a “Postwar Planning
Committee.” If the organization could gear itself
to a community at war it must also be ready to
gear itself to a community in reconversion and in
peace. It must be ready to take its place with
those who will envision and plan for the future
cultural life of the Northwest.

Recreation "About Faces"
(Continued from page 512)

pletely dominate it. We know that the things which
we do ourselves mean much more to us than those
which we see done. To us this is a world of reality.
We know, too, that it is none too good for any
person to live in a world of imagination too much,
and oftentimes an onlooker projects himself into
the scene at which he looks. It is natural that the
spectator type of entertainment surpasses in appeal
the participation type for it is simpler and easier
for the individual to look than it is for him to
exert himself. The same is true of the recreation
leader. It is easier to plan and execute the spec-
tator type of entertainment than it is to lead indi—
viduals in the participation type. However, the
value of the spectator program is transient and
temporary, whereas the participatory program may
carry over into a hobby or an avocation.

Whether one is conscious of it or not, he par-
ticipates in some kind of recreation, be it that of a
mechanical, cultural, mental or physical activity.
As recreation about faces, the eyes of the Ameri-
can people are focused on it for, at last, its true
value is being recognized and appreciated.

 

 

at one of our ships in little speedboats with a
fanaticrat the wheel. That is beating swords into

r

ploughsha'res l
RECREATION

PARKS AND RECREATION IN THE POSTWAR PERIOD 559

Parks and Recreation in the
Postwar Period

(Continued from page 518)

lowed in the design of home grounds. The display
of many of the new and less common varieties of
plants encourages their introduction into private
gardens. In these ways, and also by testing the
new varieties and keeping records of the results,
there is a substantial value to the community as
well as to the student and scientist. And don’t
forget the cducational value of these gardens to
school children!

Time does not permit me to go into all the
various forms of recreation which have come to be
accepted. However, every park man worthy of the
name will know just what his community should
have and what it can afford to provide, so it is up
to everyone connected with the park movement in
our localities to study the requirements of his par-

ticular community and to do his utmost to provide.

for the public the things they want.

Education

\Ve fully realize that education is the basis on
which we promote ourselves, and in park and rec-
reationgvork it is important that we sponsor prac-
tical education through in—service training of our
employees. There is another form of education
entirely separate from the education of park per-
sonnel, and that is public education and interpre-
tation. We must offer our citizens opportunities
for nature education. The depression showed us
that we as a people had relied very much upon that
which might be called “man-made recreation.”
Golf halls, tennis balls, strings for tennis rackets,
admission fees for movies and the like, wood and
other materials for craft work—all had suddenly
become financially impossible and we were left

high and dry.

I

There are some resources which no depression
can take from us. No depression can deprive us
of our trees and flowers, insects and birds, sunsets,
stars, storms. But to enjoy and appreciate these
lhoroughly one must be intelligent about the mar-
vels of nature they demonstrate and represent. We
must, therefore, help our young people and adults
to view the beauties and wonders all about with the
intelligent appreciation that gives deep and lasting
joy. We are the people who control the facilities
which can bring this joy throughnature into the
life of America. A serious responsibility rests upon
us. We must evolve a program of nature activities

JANUARY 1946

THOUSANDS PLAY VOLLEY BALL - but few
play well . . .

Narrated by
BILL SLATER

Paramount
Sportscaster

Designed to show both the beginner and advanced player
how _Volleyboll should be played, this.instructiono| film
is recommended by the leading authorities on Volley-
ball for
High Schools, Colleges, Industries, Clubs, and Y.M.C.A's

HLM' GUIDE FURNI'SHED

“Mal: “'00 Order this Film Tattlle

Purchase: $55.00

 

and of cooperation with other education and recre-
ational agencies.

We are confident that an interesting program of
nature “recreation activities can be made the source
of great leisure-time joy. In addition, it will bring
with it mental, spiritual, social and civic values.
Outstanding among the latter stands the matter of
conservation. We preach conservation, and in some
of our states the teaching of it in the schools is
obligatory by law.

Conservation

To conserve means to protect. One is not apt
to protect that for which he has no special love.
One is not apt to love that which he does not know
or understand. To know and to understand nature
is bound to result in love and admiration for it.
Therefore, our safest promotion of conservation is
to bring our boys and girls into close contact with
nature at the very earliest age and all through
their school and their leisure-time life. A by-
product of this conservation interest may well be
a greater respect l-for and conservation of park
property.

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Fun on Horseback

By Margaret Cabell Self. A. S. Barnes & Company,
New York. $3.00.
0 THE HORSEBACK RIDER or the would-be horseback
rider Margaret Cabell Self has advice to offer on all
the many phases of the pastime. Her book is an excel-
lent handbook on horses, their care and training and use
for pleasure or profit.

Soccer

By Samuel Fralick. A. S. Barnes & Company, New
York. $1.25.

DESIGNS AND ILLUSTRATIONS add to the text written by
the soccer coach of Kelly High School in Chicago of
this new handbook on how to play soccer.

Cheerleading and Marching Bands

By Newt Loken and Otis Dypwick. A. S. Barnes &
Company, New York. $1.25.

HE ABC’s OF CHEERLEADtNG and marching bands are

clearly set forth in this book in such sections as
Qualifications of Good Cheerleaders, Tumbling with Cheer-
leading, Important Steps and Marching, Marching Band
Formations and Maneuvers and many others. The book
is profusely illustrated with photographs and diagrams.

New Goals for Old Age

Edited by George Lawton. Columbia University Press,
New York. $2.75.

0 ALL THOSE MEN AND WOMEN who are seeking an

answer to the question of the proper place in today’s
society for the increasing numbers of elderly people, this
book will be a welcome aid. It represents the considered
study of many specialists on many special phases Of the
problem. If it does not provide the whole answer to the
question, it does shed light on many of the dark places
which have badly needed illumination.

Official Bowling Guide

A. S. Barnes & Company, New York. $.50.

THE 1945—46 OFFICIAL RULES for bowling as set out by
the American Bowling Congress and the Woman’s

International Bowling Congress are here published, to-

gether with information about the game and its players of

interest to all bowling enthusiasts.

One-Act Plays for Today

Selected and edited by Francis J. Griffith and Joseph
Mersand. Globe Book Co., New York. $1.92.

HERE IS A GROUP of thirteen plays including mono-

dramas and radio plays designed primarily for use
in high school. These are interesting materials for study
or production by formal drama groups.

560

Stephen Foster: Songs for Boys
and Girls

Selected and edited by Ella Herbert Bartlett. Whittlesey
House, New York. $2.00.

HE WORDS AND MUsIC for fourteen of Stephen Foster’s

well-beloved songs *have been combined in this book
with a simple biography of the composer and charming
illustrations to fit the mood of each song. The music ar-
rangements have been simplified to bring them within the
sc0pe of young musicians.

A Child's Treasury of Things to Do

By Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publishing Co., New York.
$2.50.

HERE ARE 182 PAGES of suggestions for pastimes that

children may carry on for themselves without the
help of adults. The book is divided into six sections.
Things-to-do- when you’re very young, Play ideas for
when you’re bigger, Playmate Fun, Party Games, For
when you’re in bed, and If you aunt to make a gift.
Emphasis is upon safety and the use of materials found
around the average home. Instructions are clear and
easily understood.

Two Barnes Sports Guides

HE OFFICIAL SOCCER GUIDE, including the laws for 1946,

is edited by Douglas Stewart. The OEIeial 'Aquatics
Guide, 1946—47 was prepared by Catherine Riggs. Both
are available from A. S. Barnes & Company, New York,
at a cost of 50 cents each.

Omcers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS. New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEutS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT Wooos BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMHER,Jack30nvi1lc, Fla.
MRS. THOMAS A. Benson, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELwLLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V Htcxox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. 11.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLINEN, Augusta. Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New Yerk, N. Y.

, FREDERICK M. WAREURC, New York, N. Y.
"JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington. D. C.

