 

Planning for Freedom ‘of Living

N 0 ONE WANTS to follow a “Road to Serfdom." Everyone wants

to stay on the “Road to Freedom.” Many fear, however, that
planning will rule out freedom. Can we make and keep recreation
planning a way to freedom?

If we want freedom. freedom to live, must we not plan for it?
\Ve the people cannot have swimming beaches. skating ponds. ball
fields. unless we have a certain minimum amount of planning to save
these places for all the people.

There are certain things we all want to do. certain things we all
want to enjoy. ‘We cannot do. we cannot have, except as we plan
quite a way ahead.

Rose gardens do not grow for the individual or for the com-
munity except as they are planned. except as individuals plan.

In pioneer days the wilderness of streams and forests and moun-
tains stretched out from our cities. and much of our great, great grand-
fathers’ world was one vast. undeveloped park open to everyone. In
pioneer days there could be freedom without too much planning. In

the horse and carriage day even there was traflic freedom without
planning and control.

But now all that is changed. The guidance of traflic is for our
freedom. The saving of park lands. the planning of our recreation
areas is for us, for our living.

The question is not whether we should choose planning or free-
dom. but rather what is the degree of planning that keeps for us
freedom of living. When planning ceases to be a help to daily living.
then is becomes a detriment. When planning is for its own sake. when
planning is primarily for creating perfect machinery, for making a
perfect chart. when planning ceases to have immediate relation to us

as human beings. then we may well" go limp on our planners, relax.
lose our interest.

The great thing in recreation planning is to keep very close to
the people———common and uncommon—to all the people. We may
well question what the people just cannot understand.

We want, do we not. in recreation just as much planning as
aids freedom of living?
HOWARD BRAUCI—IER

FEBRUARY I946

561

February

-.
g u

_ =2
Courtesy Union County (N. 1.) Park

 

The Season's Firsf Snow

*th RECREATION

, The Smoking Room Discusses Recreation

 

s OUR TRAIN pulled out of Grand Central Sta-
A tion the city was stirring to one of the prema-
ture armistice reports. The club car radio
crackled unintelligibly. Chairs were ticketed to
extra passengers. I went back to the smoking
room of my sleeper.

There, speculation about the rumored surrender
thawed reserve. The group of men started talking
like old acquaintances around a fireplace. We soon
knew that our group consisted of an industrialist.
a college dean, a research chemist, an engineer,
and a recreation executive. \Ve spent six hours
together. None of us told our names. But I think
the Dean spoke for all of us when he said as we
separated, “Gentlemen, I have done more explora—
tory thinking on more subjects this afternoon than
.I ever did in any equal period of time in my life.”
I , at least felt the same way. It was that kind of a
discussion.

Perhaps the Dean had the Engineer chiefly in
mind. Periodically, the Engineer jerked his pipe
out of his mouth to explode into the conversation.
He started that part of the discussion which event-
ually came around to recreation. In the course of
an explanation about his own job he had spoken
of the necessity of bringing imagination to the
business of each day. Some minutes later the Re-
search Chemist harked back to this statement.

"I think you went to the root of things when
you said in your studies you still kept your imagi—
nation. But how many do? \Ve get research as-
sistants, graduates of training schools. Mechani—
sally they are competent. But —-—- imagination?
Zero! They don’t assay a pound to the ton. Why?
Is the raw material devoid of imagination when

- our schools go to work on it? I can’t believe that.

The kids of this land, and what they did with radio
in its early stages, wouldn’t indicate that imagina—
tion has died out. \Vhat is wrong then? Is educa-
tion too intent on the process to think of the man?
In milling the raw material does it draw the tem—
per out of our steel?”

The Engineer said, “I wouldn’t know. I never
had an education.” He resumed his pipe with a
shrug.

This it seemed to me was in my bailiwick. I
spoke up: “You’re getting onto one of my pet
notions now. Kids have plenty of imagination.
watch your own in their play. If you want to .test

FEBRUARY 1946

it_. go to a bunch of them and say, ‘Let’s organizie a
circus,’ and see what happens.

“But, just the same, my experience has been
like the Chemist’s here. In recreation we forever
need new ideas. We need imagination. The old
stuff goes stale. Our trained leaders find the
toughest part of their job is to keep their programs
fresh and novel. As kids they probably had active
imaginations, but by the time they’ve finished their
training they discover they have lost the knack for
inventing new patterns. Vthn I first went into
recreation I found the same thing in myself. I had
to fight agonizing battles to get any of my kid
imagination back. I figured I had lost it while I
had been keeping my nose between the pages of
books pursuing other men's ideas. You remember
Hobbes once observed that if he read as much he’d
think as little as some of his fellow philosophers.”

“Perhaps,” said the Chemist, “there’s a lag in
the methods of teaching. with the result that study
hasn't evolved yet into a discipline of the student’s
creative imagination to go with his harvesting of
the facts of his subject matter. 'Maybe he’s 'kept so
busy acquiring precision in traditional skills that
no time is left for developing the skill to improvise
new methods.”

The Industrialist broke in. “I’d go along with
all of you to a certain extent. But what you call
imagination in kidsm—isn’t a lot of it plain memory,
just imitation? Oh yes, they do invent things too.
But listen to their talk—-—teen-agers—-—all the same
patter, cheap slang stamped out by the same die.
Does that indicate imagination? On the other
hand, as you say, kids made radio. You’ve got to
admit it. It seems to me imagination is what you
might call a potential, not a gift from heaven. It
needs cultivation and we’re not doing too good a
job on it.

"I have an idea that this country in the future is
going to need all the inventiveness it can either
discover or develop. That's why I’m so interested
in the subject. I’m coming to think tarin walls
are outdated. like border fortifications—they just
won’t protect us any longer. \Ve all go down
together if we lose our scale of living, and cutting
costs by lowering wages will surely drag it down.
But countries that don't have that scale of living
can copy our old industries and undersell us with
lower labor costs. Our only hope then is to keep

563

564 THE SMOKING ROOM DISCUSSES RECREATION

our technology out ahead. We must keep ahead by
virtue of our new ideas, discoveries, inventions.
And that means a trained and disciplined imagina-
tiop. I’d almost go out on a limb to prophesy
we’ve got to have it to survive.

“But the next generation will need its play—
things, too. I hope radar will turn out to be some-
thing of that sort. Power boats may be another.
Helicopters. Have you considered what a godsend
our surplus of machine tools and motors may turn
out to be if every bunch of boys can get their own
workshops? These surplus -comm0dities might
prove our biggest asset! Not just for skill of hand.
For discipline and practice in using imagination to
’solve problems, inventing our own answers. Our
country could use a whole generation of inventors.
You fellows who run the playgrounds—I take it
you’re doing a good enough job on sports. But are
you giving this subject of the
imagination your attention?
Are you really exercising the
imagination, the inventive-
ness of the youngsters? My
guess is you have a better
chance to do it than the
schools. Do your playgrounds
encourage that sort of tink-
ering ?”

I couldn’t refrain from
chuckling. “You’ll never know
the kick I get out of hearing
a business man ask those r
questions! Usually it’s only our own professional
circles that discuss them in shop talk.

“But to get back to your question. I don’t think
that recreation leadership generally has planned
specific promotion of activities on the nation’s
playgrounds with the definite purpose of exercising
the inventive imagination of our young people.
we have been aware of the need for exercise to
develop strength and muscular control. But I
doubt if we have recognized, to anything approach-
ing the same degree, the need for exercise to
develop inventiveness. We have tried to develop
health. W’e have worked to inculcate a code of
sportsmanship and self-discipline. We have aimed
at personality development, at courage and per-—
severance in the face of discouragement. We have
encouraged a broad cultural outlook on life. Very
definitely we have cultivated team work, living in
social accord with one’s fellows. But I don’t think
many of us have deliberately sought to cultivate a
creative imagination.

"Man bites dog" is always news. So, tooI
is it news—at least to recreation leaders
—when a quintet of assorted laymen de-
vote time and thought in the smoking car
of a transcontinental train to discussing
recreation. Such a discussion did actually
take place not long ago. It is reported
in RECREATION because it can. perhaps.
give people interested in the future op-
portunities and the future developments
of recreation "furiously to think" about
one aspect of the subject that may in-
crease in importance in the postwar years.

"In my own playground system an inventor
worked for us for a time under \V.P.A. when he
was temporarily down on his luck. He organized
a Junior Inventors’ Club. To join, a boy had to
submit, and have approved, an original invention
of his own. Any kind of an invention, as long as
he was its creator. To promote a club spirit where
members could really fraternize while working out
their original ideas and still have their ideas so
protected that they didn’t need to be kept secret,
he devised the club’s own patent office. There a
boy could record his idea to safeguard it against
infringement. He had a lot of lads interested. The
club flourished as long as he stayed with it. But
after a time he found another job which took him
out of town, and then it folded up. He worked
definitely not as a crafts instructor in manual
training to develop skills for the skill’s sake. In—
stead of that he wanted the
boys to deve10p their creative
imagination so they might
have the satisfaction of say»
ing, ‘This is my own original
idea.’ '

“I recall another similar
development. In a local hous-
ing project there was a
teacher of pottery who had a
group of mature women
modeling in clay. Most of the
group were colored women.
Her one rule was ‘lNe are not I
going to copy anything.’ Those women had no
previous training in art. At first they were timid
in making their own designs. They were afraid ‘
they might be in bad taste. But presently they
rose above such fears to strike out boldly, on their
own. Their exhibits attracted artists from all over
the city. There was a strength, a vigor in their
work that was really thrilling. Critics said there
wasn’t a product in the whole exhibit that was
bad art. They were strikingly original, but good
design, and many of them were pronounced power-
ful compositions. Here again the aim was to '
develop originality.

“These are instances which I happened to see,
personally. No doubt there are many others around
the country. Everywhere there is at least some
attempt to stress originality. Playground kite con-
tests feature original ideas. So do Halloween cos—
tume parades. Arts seek original design. Crafts
encourage original ideas. Drama departments
stress original plays. So there is some attention '

RECREATION

THE SMOKING ROOM DISCUSSES RECREATION 565

given to the matter, although probably not as
much as it deserves.”

“You know,” said the Research Chemist, “I
think our Industrialist friend here has Opened up a
real idea! You pe0ple ought to go out for an ex-
perimental workshOp in every city in the land as a
sort of intellectual playground to supplement your
sports fields and swimming pools. After the war
you can get tools and machinery from Surplus
Commodities. There will be a lot of memorial
buildings proposed. Such a workshop would be
much more useful than a dead museum. I think it
would appeal to a town’s practical business inter-
ests. Hitler, in M ein Kampf, said a big lie is more
effective than a little one. A big truth or a big
constructive idea has the same advantage over a
little one.

“I’m not thinking about any third rate craft
shop, with a few wornout machine tools, you un—
derstand. What I mean is a real experimental
center with fine equipment. A good technical
library, under competent direction. Scheduling the
best technical men of the community as consultants
willing to share experience and advice with young
experimenters who are keeping their imagination
alive. A place where young fellows interested in
this Junior Achievement business enterprise idea,
for example, can do their pioneering until they
work the bugs out of their production processes
and set up a shop and production line of their own.
The kind of a structure where boys who want to
build themselves a working model of a locomotive,
or an actual miniature producing synthetic rubber
plant for example, or a steel mill, can do so and
grapple, practically, with all of the headaches such
a project entails. It seems to me that his sugges-
tion is in itself a challenge to one’s imagination.

“As a plaything after the last war the crystal
and cat’s whisker radio didn’t require machine
aids. Boys could build it in their own home attic
or basement. But when our men get back and want
to play with radar and television they face a dif-
ferent tool problem.

“All of our progress isn’t going to come out of
organized research laboratories. They defeat them-
selves if they discourage independent tinkering.
There’s still a world of adventure in actual experi—
menting. A million tinkerers unquestionably will
turn up discoveries the laboratories overlook. Often
the research scientist knows too much. He bumps
into a difficulty, looks it over and says: ‘Why. of
course! It can’t be done! Stupid of me not to
have realized it. It’s against the laws of physical

FEBRUARY 1946

science.’2_iBut where thousands, who don’t know
that it can’t be done, bump into that same difficulty
they start hacking away at its impossibility. In the
multitude of their experiments someone may ulti—
mately dig under, or climb over, or go around it,
to come out on the other side. Then the scientist
has to confess: ‘Well, if you’re going to do it that
way, perhaps it can be done!’ That’s the way we
got our radio. It’s the way we may get many a
future invention.

“Anyhow, science tries to discover truth. Gen-
erally it leaves to other experimenters the matter.
of the application of its truths to what goes 'on in
the world. There’s room now, and always will be,
for experimenting in infinite variety. We’ve barely
started in metallurgy, and plastics, even in me—
chanics. If we equipped the country'for making a
hobby of experimenting, there’s no telling where
we might go, provided, of course, that we also
organized our tinkers into associations which
passed along what they learned so they could all
profit by each other’s discoveries. You recreation
men, I should think, could encourage that organi-
zation of enthusiasts into groups to pass ideas
around, among themselves. Any dyed in the wool
hobbyist is always eager to share what he has .
learned with fellow enthusiasts. That ought to be
about the easiest part of your job.”

“Yes, that part of it wouldn’t be hard, once it
started,” I said. “But such a plan would face two
hurdles. First, we ourselves would need to do some
original thinking. We would need to shake up our
mind-set on,the subject of what recreation is all
about. Many of us would need to change our out-
look on our job. In addition to that, we would
have still another headache on the subject of lead-
ership. What you are talking about here would
demand a new set of skills in our leaders. Where
would we get people competent to inspire and .
stimulate such an extension of our present pro-
grams?” 7

“You’d probably have to make ’em, just as in—
dustry made its own new skilled help during this
war,” said the Engineer. “But we’ve learned a lot
about how to train men in the last four years. No
doubt you can get some ideas on the subject by
looking into that. But remember! If you try it
you’ll still need to think of the man in addition to
thinking of the processes you use in training him.”

“But you’d hope for something else, too, wouldn’t
you?” queried the Dean. “Wouldn’t you hope that
what one might call the integrity of the materials

( Continued on. page 611)

Tryout Theatre, Incorporated

AT ONE TIME, Seattle, it seemed,

was not going to have a con—-

nection with the East by transcontinental
railway. The people of Seattle didn’t accept that
fact. They built a railroad of their own, and today
Seattle is a railway terminal for most of the lines
from the East and South.

And at one time, it seemed that Seattle was to
be as isolated from the new play as every city in
the United States except New York, Chicago, Los
Angeles. But Seattle remembered the pioneer
spirit that had made it a railway center. It wanted
new plays, so a group of citizens incorporated to
produce new “plays. They aren’t large scale, pro-
fessional Broadway shows. They’re like that rail-
way of our own: a start of something in the West
that will bring the spirit of a Broadway opening to
Seattle. These plays, produced for the first time
'on any stage may be the starting point for thea-
tres all over the country to develop the playwright
in his own region. No longer, we dream, will play—
wrighfs have to go to Broadway or Hollywood.
. They‘ll see their plays grow into an artistic and/or
commercial success right at home.

The Birth of an Idea

Tryout Theatre was started by twelve people
who decided to have a theatre where all of the
work was creative. The playwright would be see—
ing his play for the first time; the actors would be
creating rather than reproducing roles; the di-
rector would be interpreting the playwright; the
designer would be giving the first home to a play-
wright’s dream; and the audience, articulate and
participating, would be deciding for itself whether
the play was worth seeing or not.

Two and a half years later, Tryout Theatre has
(counting husbands and wives) almost 170 mem-
bers who are coolieratively responsible for the
theatre’s operation. More than that, it has an
audience that often forces an extension on the
scheduled six weeks run; it has the support of
other theatre and writing groups such as the
Drama and English Departments of the University,
Seattle Junior Programs, Zeta Phi Eta, Seattle
Repertory Theatre, Music and Art Foundations,
\Vriters’ Forum, League of Western ‘Writers, Free

Lance, \Vashington State Press Club, and many
others.

566

By GEORGE SAVAGE

The active members vary from time
to time and are on the increase now
because the third of the membership in the armed
forces is now returning, adding actors, actresses,
directors, designers. So far theatre workers have
returned from the Aleutians, from the South
Pacific, from England, from France, and from the
two-ocean Navy.

Accomplishments —-—

Since its first production, Tryout Theatre has
developed fifteen new full length plays and has the
sixteenth in rehearsal. One play produced at the
theatre is now under option for Broadway pro-
duction. Another has been issued in book form by
the Macmillan Company. Four have been sched-
uled for production elsewhere. Scripts have come
in from all over, but special preference is given to
the local playwright since he is always available to
work on the production. We do, as a policy, some
plays from other parts of the country but, if we
chose, our entire future program could be locally
written.

Tryout Theatre is open to everyone in the Com-
munity, though membership is conferred only on
the vote of the Board of Directors to those inter-
ested and accepting responsibility. Open tryouts
are held for each play both for acting and for
backstage and publicity work. It is impossible to
remember all the people who have contributed to
the theatre but a check of the first year’s programs
indicated that about 200 different people had
worked on shows and been listed in the program.

Productions are given in the former Studio
Theatre originally planned and built under the
supervision of President Glenn Hughes. The cast
for one show rehearses Monday, Tuesday, and
\Vednesday nights; another show is in production
on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights. There
is no gap between shows.

And Difficulties

All this sounds as if the theatre were a bed of
roses. It isn’t. The Building and Fire Depart-
ments appear suddenly demanding changes which
the landlord won’t make. That means the theatre
makes them in order to stay open. The building is
old. The heating system is erratic. The personnel

(Continued on page 615) .

RECREATION

Recreation tor the Handicapped

LL WORK and no play, the
A old saying goes, makes
anyone dull. For the
handicapped person that say-
ing becomes far more realistic.
Skill or ability to do a job does not necessarily
insure employment to a handicapped person any
more than to those who are able—bodied. Excessive
shyness, an inability to impress the employer on a
[irst interview, anxiety over bus or subway travel
to and from work and other evidences of an overly
sheltered existence, may defeat the handicapped
job seeker’s chances at the job for which he is
otherwise trained and ready.

Recognizing this. the entire recreation program
of the Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service is di-
rected toward the development of the handicapped
person into a more self-assured and self-confident
individual. W'ithout this program, many of our
former trainees, now successful and happy in well—-
paid positions, might have continued shut off from
self-support.

Through dramatics, tap and ballroom dancing,
archery, games and sports more is taught than im-
provement in posture, appearance or coordination.
It is here our trainees learn
to participate under condi—
tions‘ which give time and
privacy to the awkward
and sensitive so that they
may eventually meet peo—
ple without hesitancy or
shyness.

A typical story is that of
a young woman so badly
handicapped that her fear
of traveling back and forth
by subway and bus pre—
vented her entry into our
workshops. At our sum—
mer camp for the handi-
capped and blind, she
learned to her amazement
that it was possible for her
to climb in and out of the
station wagon and not miss
going to the beach. With
the self—confidence thus

FEBRUARY 1946

By M. ROBERTA TOWNSEND
Director
Department for the Handicapped
Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service

gained, she finally responded
to encouragement to try a bus
ride to the Bureau’s workshop.
Having made it successfully.
the first hurdle towards her
training and future self-support had been taken.

While our recreational group activities are a
“rounding out” process for the individual to help
overcome poor appearance, over—sensitiveness and
inability to meet people, careful attention is given
to improvement of coordination, correction of
faulty speech and wherever possible to modifica—
tion of awkward gaits into more acceptable per—
formances.

In utilizing any form of recreation for the blind
or crippled, teaching methods must be adapted to
the limitations of each individual pupil. It is in-
variably surprising to the lay person to see how
much pleasure a handicapped person may derive
from an activity in which he can participate only
when assisted.

Music in braille

 

567

568 RECREATION FOR THE HANDICAPPED

Archery

For example, archery is so popu-
lar among our blind and handi-
capped girls at our Shelter Island
summer camp that by request it is
continued each year throughout
the winter. Yet the sport calls for
such balance and accuracy that
those unable to achieve it must
shoot from a sitting position,
while blind pupils have to be as-
sisted both in posture and in
sighting a bull’s-eye. Our pro-
cedure for both is as follows:

The teacher stands behind the
pupil to assist in the stance. For
the blind, the teacher fits the ar—
row to the bow, or the pupil uses
a notch in the string to find the
place against which to set the
arrow. The pupil raises the bow
into position, and the teacher
swings it into proper focus. The
blind pupil knows from the ping
if the arrow has hit the target.
The teacher gives its position.

In our archery classes we [ind
that any handicapped person hav-
ing the ability to sit upright in a
chair and to learn to use his arms
with the necessary degree of ac-
curacy, enjoys the sport immensely. Some at-
tribute this to the sense of power and exuberance
gained from the controlled flight of the arrow.

Dramatics

Dramatics as recreation for the blind calls for
painstaking repetition of training as well as' spe—
cialized procedure. No other activity repays so
abundantly, however, the patience and skills of the
recreation leader through the pupil’s improvement
in poise and self-confidence and through the elimi-
nation of personal mannerisms. A long winter’s
work usually results in several young blind girls
blossoming into new personalities, the lift of mood
and outlook clearly mirrored in their appearance
and carriage.

Here are some differences of procedure that we
use in rehearsing a blind cast.

All memorizing of the script should be letter-
perfect before stage direction.

The stage set is established early and rigidly fol-

 

A blind girl learns +o' knit

lowed. since there can be no variation during re-
hearsal or production. \Ve keep an exact pattern
layout for its quick and accurate setup.

Before stage directions begin, the blind cast
familiarize themselves with the set, counting the
steps between the furniture and the entrance and
exit. Rugs stretched between given points give
direction and are used as a basis for counting
steps to allow for timing and distance.

For stage action, chalk marks are made so that
the stage director can insure accuracy of each
actor's movement in relation to other members of
the cast.

By the time the play is produced the entire cast
is so thoroughly at home on the set and familiar
with all that is on it that members move about

RECREATION

w_—__'“ d- '—

RECREATION FOR THE HANDICAPPED 569

with complete ease and confidence and no tell-tale
groping.

To minimize groping and fumbling there are a
number of tricks. One is the height of the fur-
niture. If furniture is too high or too low, the
blind actor has to fumble up or down its surface,
either action exposing his uncertainty. All fur-
niture should be normal in height so that the hands
fall naturally on a table or a chair. Another trick
is used when the actor reaches across a table for
some object suchas a letter or other property. She
slides the palm of the hand along the flat surface,
steadying the motion with the little finger. This
movement, invisible to the audience, gives the
action a natural and careless grace, cloaking the
momentary search.

With blind actors reliance must be placed first
on the voice and then on the facial expression.
While action on stage can be made with ease and
confidence, movements that are too sudden or
abrupt may endanger balance and should be mini-
mized. If the position to be taken is difficult to
describe, the director assumes the position and lets
the blind person feel the posture. A dramatic
director who follows these and other precautions
in developing the self-confidence of a blind cast
may anticipate a finished performance. The ac-
curacy with which blind actoors will count the steps
and arrive exactly at the right place at the right
time is uncanny. In all our years of experience we
have had only one blind girl who, in her excite-
nient, lengthened her steps arriving by the right
number of steps but slightly off direction as re-
quired by the script.

Swimming

Swimming for the blind calls for little difference
in instruction except that the pupil sometimes puts
his hands on the shoulders of the instructor to get
the feel of the proper arm motion. For the same
reason, the instructor may move the pupil’s feet.
Flutterboards, since they can be gradually elimi—
nated, should at all times take the place of a life
preserver or any other such artificial help. Only
the fingers should be allowed to rest upon the
board. With crippled persons the choice of the
swimming motion should depend on individual
ability. If the legs are affected, the motion should
be more that of the arms, allowing the legs to
float. Often a badly handicapped person wearing
two braces and unable to walk can get great benefit

as well as pleasure from carefully chosen swim-
ming instruction.

FEBRUARY 1946

Dancing

As for dancing, there is no reason why blind
girls should not dance as expertly as anyone else
with an occasional single exception. Some blind
pe0ple, unable to keep to a straight line, uncons—
ciously swing to one side in dancing as well as
walking. This habit may be very difficult to over-
come and any artificial process may lead to rigidity
of movement. If they are not informed of this
tendency, however, most blind people can dance
happily and gracefully.

Crippled pupils should always be given dancing
instruction at a very slow tempo. If it is a case of
acutely poor balance that can be improved, the
pupil should be put in a specialized group to learn
balance. To this end two familiar setting up exer-
cises, are used:

The pupil stands before a chair and, with her
hand on the chair, bends her knees, doing a duck
squat

Standing upright, hands on hips (or hand on
chair if necessary for balance) the pupil throws
her leg forward and back from hip, straightening
and stretching the leg outright in each motion.

For those who cannot get their bodies into
rhythm we find both of these simple exercises
often result in marked improvement.

Volley Ball

Through games of volley ball, trainees with
fairly rigid or spastic hand disabilities have gradu-
ally learned to grasp balls, have acquired ability to
take on work processes calling for increased hand
dexterity. '

As a matter of encouragement to the class, we
use as assistants under our recreation director,
whenever possible, handicapped pupils who have
excelled in their work. The entire recreation pro-
gram is, of course, handled in conjunction with our
medical social worker, all entries for recreation
activities being carefully checked with doctors’
recommendations.

 

Recreation for the handicapped is of increasing
interest to recreation leaders everywhere. From
time to time RECREATION will carry such articles
on this subject as come to our hand. If you have
a program that includes special activities for the
lame, the halt or the blind we should like to hear
about them so that other readers of the magazine
may benefit by your experiences and by the features
of general interest found in other programs.

The Wonder of Childhood Classics

comedian wishes in his‘s'ecret heart

to play Hamlet. It is perhaps equally true that
nearly every writer of books for adults has, at one
time or another, coming across such a masterpiece
as Kenneth Grahame’s “The Wind in the \Vil-
lows” or that gentle prose poet's even subtler
book, “The Golden Age,” wished he could write a
hook for children. Just as it is often the father who
gets most fun out of electric trains, so it is that
often adults get more fun out of children’s books
than children themselves. Every once in a while
a little classic like “The Story of Ferdinand”
attains a grown-up audience larger than its circue
lation among youngsters. And there is, I think,
scarcely a book more often quoted by philos0phers
than “Alice in 'Wonderland.”

It may be argued that, for adults, children's
books are escape literature, though it is a nice ques—
tion why the term “escape” has become such a
term of dispraise. The moral value of escape is to
be measured in part by what the escape is to. To
flee to the world of children’s books now and then
is, no doubt, an escape. It is a return to childhood,
but not necessarily to childislmess. It is a volle—
facc from fact and perception to memory and
imagination, to disinterested wit and unbribed and
uncommitted humor. It is to live for the time
being in a realm where animals speak like humans
and have human foibles and virtues. In children’s
books all is spelled out in simple syllables and un-
complicated lines.

There is logic enough, in all conscience, in chil—
dren’s books, the logic of outspoken common sense,
uncorrupted by the sophistries and social pretenses
of adult life. One of the most wonderful things
about Lewis Carroll's Wonderland is that the ab-
surdities in it are measured
always by Alice’s own in—
nocent and forthright rea-
sonableness. It is true that
in the world of children’s
books anything can happen.
The endless vistas of hope
and fancy are realized there.
On the whole, only the
most delightful things do
happen, as in a thoroughly

IT IS COMMONLY sun that every

570

By IRWIN EDMAN

It has become customary in recent years for
the leading magazines devoted to the review-
ing of books to take special note of Children's
Book Week. In accordance with this custom.

the ‘New York Times Book Review for
SundayI November llI I945l carried as its
leading article comment by lrwin Edman on
the joys in store for adults who read the clas-
sics written for children.
printed here by the permission of the author

and the New-York TimesBook Review.

rational universe would be the case.
The pleasant worlds opened do have
(for children are not used to the routine of grown-
up follies and established chaos) a logic of their
own. Father \Villiam may stand on his head, but
he gives his own good reason for it.

Part of the old credible charm of a good chil-
dren’s story is that the fantastic things that happen
are set in a familiar world. and the strange, lovable
creatures who talk use the idiom of usual society.
“Look here,” says the Water Rat to the Mole in
Kenneth Grahame’s W'in in the llr’z'ltorvs, “if
you've really nothing else on hand this morning,
supposing we drop down the river together and
have a long day of it.” In E. B. \Vhite’s exquisite
recent tale, "Stuart Little,” the hero, a small boy*
who—is-a-mouse, has his odd, sometimes terrifyino'.
adventures in a conventional enough setting, in a
well-bred New York home, in the rolled-up win-
(low shade, down the bathtub drain, navigating a
toy boat on the lake in Central Park.

Books for children have their own winsome
logic, often far more attractive than the dull neces-
sities of mature life. But they are also an escape
into poetry. The prison house, as \Vordsworth
suggests, closes in upon the growing boy, the edge
and sheen of things is rubbed off, the melody of
events hushed. Open a child’s book and, even if
one is no longer a child, the wonder is there again,
the radiance, the freshness, the delight. Recall the
opening passage of “The Wind in the Willows”;
The Mole, it appears, . . . had been busy all

morning spring-cleaning his little home. . . .

Spring was moving in the air above and in the

earth below and around him, penetrating even

his dark and lonely little house with its spirit

of divine discontent and longing. . . . [He]
scratches and scrabbles
and scrooges his way to
the sunlight. . . . Jump—
ing off all four feet at
once in the joy of living
and the delight of spring
without its cleaning, he
pursued his way across
the meadow until he
reached the hedge on the
other side.

That article is re-

RECREATION

I

THE IVONDER OF CHILDHOOD CLASSICS 571

In children’s books everything, like the colors
in the pictures, is bright; everything, like the lines
in the drawings, is clean. All, like the best prose
in children’s books, is delicately musical. At times,
indeed, as in Lewis Carroll, the cadence of the
prose goes frankly over into verse though some of
the most genuinely poetic passages, as in Kenneth
Grahame, do not need the-artifice of rhyme and
meter.

It would be hard to equal, for feeling, image and
resonance of association, that enchanting chapter,
for instance, in Kenneth Grahame’s “The Golden
Age” called “The Roman Road.” No one who has
read it will have forgotten the conversation between
the artist and the small boy by the side of the road
in the middle of England—a road that he has
always been sure is the road that leads directly to
Rome. It turns out that the artist, met by chance,
has actually lived in Rome. He and the little boy
discuss, in quite offhand manner but all quite ser-
iously, many weighty matters: another fellow,
Marcus Aurelius, a somber chap who seems also
to have lived in Rome; and an ideal city the little
boy has thought up, much to the artist’s approval,
where one can do as one pleases and take without
pay what one likes in the shops and invite whom—
ever one chooses, and relatives only if they are
especially nice. The artist eventually disappears
down the road in a sunset haze of light, and the
whole episode has a golden spell, attained not least
by the nostalgic music of the telling.

The characters in a good children’s story do not
need to be explained too much or justihed or ana—
lyzed. There they are! And they talk with a
directness that most adults have forgotten, but
children have not. They say what is on their minds
with the greatest simplicity and candor, like the
Mad Hatter and the Duchess and the Gryphon in
“Alice,” even if it hurts people’s feelings. No
classic children’s author ever has to explain why
the animals in his books talk, and it becomes self-
evident in their talk that they talk as one might
expect them to. They talk like human beings, but
with animal spontaneity, and as they converse we
realize that if some of our human friends were less
guarded they would sound very much like the
blustering Mr. Toad in “The \Vin in the Wil-
lows” or the home-loving dog. In fact, some of
them do talk that way.

Children’s tales, filled as they so often are with
animals, are filled, too, with scents and sounds of
the earth on which they live, the woodlands they
rove, the fields they inhabit and, if possible,.in the,

FEBRUARY 1946

blossoming of full summer. To this day children
bred in city apartments and knowing nature mostly
in city parks are the beneficiaries of writers bred
in an English landscape and filled with memories
of boating on the leisurely Thames.

But children’s books are not all fantasy and
charm and sweet landscape. What often most en—
dears these volumes to both children and adults
is their wit. The peOple or animals in them behave
not only winnineg but brightly. It is hard to say
whether it is children or adults who are most
pleased when the jurors in “Alice” put down their
names on the slates, for fear they may forget them
before the end of the trial. And the delight is
keenest when, as is often happily the case, the
absurdity is tantalizineg not absurd:

“\Vould you tell me, please, which way I.
ought to walk from here,” said Alice. “That'
depends a good deal on where you want to
go,” said the Cheshire Cat. “I don’t much
care where,” says Alice. “Then it doesn’t
matter which way you walk.” “So long as I
get somewhere,” Alice added as an explana-
tion. “Oh, you’re sure to do that,” said the
Cat, “if you only walk long enough.” Alice ‘
felt that this could not be denied.

V's/e feel so, too. The fantasies of children’s books
are tilled with undeniable truths, verities adult
books seem to have got into the habit of avoiding
or are hesitant about repeating or have come no—
where near discovering at all.

It is not surprising that so many classics among
children’s books are English. They grew out of
that self—enclosed nursery world in which English
children of the comfortable classes grew up in the
nineteenth century. They merged from a back—
ground of country leisure in a stable world of
peace. That sanctuary of an English nursery or
an English garden in a secure society is not present
any more. But there are signs of late“ that the
great English tradition of children’s literature, a
blessed mélange of poetry and wit, of logic and
fantasy, is not ended yet nor confined to England.

E. B. White and James Thurber, who have long
been writing for not unsophisticated adults, have
turned very recently to writing for children. The
reader is urged to find out at first hand how Mr.
\Vhite’s Stuart Little, the little boy-mouse, lived
his wistful, heroic small life. He will discover in
the tale how, in the form of a children’s story,
tenderness, hilarity and enchantment can be com-
bined in an urban American setting. The reader is

(Continued on page 612)

C

Your Library Gives You Away

0U WOULD never believe that the
' little brick or wooden library

standing on the next block in
your town could tell anything about your neigh-
borhood or the kind of pe0ple living in your com-
munity. As far as you can see, the library is a
silent building, often a trifle solemn. It is merely
another house in town—a house for books.

Yet if anyone should take the trouble to listen,
your library has a story to tell. It can speak em-
phatically and accurately about the type of people
its townsfolk are, tell whether they are intellectu-
ally alert to present day problems, whether they
are sensation seekers, what they think about and
do in their spare time, whether they read for
pleasure or profit.

The kind of books you and your neighbors bor-
row from the library, the frequency with which
you visit the library, reflect the times as well as
your town. For as you experience social and eco-
nomic changes, your library goes through these
changes with you.

Remember the time you were reading all the
eye witness, factual accounts of the international
situation that you could put your hands on?

Remember that as soon as the war was over
and it looked as though restrictions on building
materials would let up within a few months, you
began to take out books of plans for the building
of homes?

Are you surprised that I know all this? Well,
your library told me this about you—and more.

Libraries throughout the country can reveal
what the. people are 'thinking about and what they
do with their leisure time, if you will only take the
time.,t_o listen.

Take‘the Mary Cheney Library in Manchester,
Conn.,.as an example of what goes on in libraries
throughout the country. Manchester is an indus-
trial town. It is the home of the world famous
Cheney Silk Mills which were converted to make
parachutes during the war, and Manchester also
had one part of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft located
on its outskirts, as well as many small tool shops.

Fiction and Fact

During the height of the war, detective stories

were gaining wideSpread favor among tired war-

W2

By RUBY ZAGOREN
Haddam, Connecticut

workers. Earl Gardiner and Ellery
Queen were listed among the favor-
ite authors for hours of relaxation,
though Conan Doyle’s'stories of Sherlock Holmes
were still going strong. '

And while the war was going on, the once
neglected atlas came into the limelight, for Man—
chester people, like every other one of us, were
highly interested in the happenings in the various
war theaters. Atlases were constantly in use to
locate Army camps and places in the South Seas.

Fiction still held its ground because it, too, is
“recreational reading,” and more non-fiction books
were circulated this year than ever before. Guadal-
canal Diary and They Were Expendable, though
classed as non-fiction, were extremely popular as
were similar books on the war.

During 1943 Manchester’s population of nearly
30,000 read 105,612 books. This means that each
individual man, woman and child read an average
of three and a half books. The librarian pointed
out that the adults were accountable for most of
the borrowed books.

However, it is revealing to know that technical
books and those that give “first hand information
on the war” go out of date in about ten years after
their publication. New men bring new ideas and
consequently the library is continually kept in the
center of the stream of interests.

Fads and Fashions

Taking a periodical inventory of books shows just
how obsolete theories in science and other fields
can become in time. An inventory is for the'pur-
pose of replacing the “dead” topic by the new. A
library is full of live subjects.

In the spring of 1944, books on gardening, can-
ning and nutrition rose in p0pu1arity at Mary
Cheney Library as the campaign for bigger and
better victory gardens got under way. A special
display of books on canning was set up near the
main desk and scarcely a woman left the library
without looking over the books, selecting one, and
taking it with her. Men became interested in in-
secticides and fertilizers. Books giving recipes
using little sugar were in demand. Of course, the
various war journals were still p0pu1ar, too.

(Confirmed on page 604)

RECREATION

6

A Memorial Youth Center

N FEBRUARY 15, 1945, a handful of men in
Coral Gables, Florida, founded an associa-
tion—~the Coral Gables" War Memorial As-

sociation, incorporated not for profit, to erect an ap-
propriate building which would preserve forever
the record and names of men and women from the
city who served in the war.

A careful study was made of the social problems ' r
of the community, and the committee, after a'

thorough investigation and consultation with edu—
cators, welfare workers, business men and civic
and social organizations, recommended that a Me-
morial Building be erected on a site sufficiently
large to provide a youth center for the twenty-
three hundred children in the community.

The decision to erect the Memorial Youth Cen-
ter was based on the premise that it is the com-
munity’s responsibility to assist parents in fulnll-
ing their obligation toward their own children,
and to provide services outside the home that are
necessary for the rounded deveIOpment, protection
and positive well-being of all its children.

The Committee defined a Youth Center in the
following terms:

“The Youth Center will be an organization of
children—young people—who with the aid and
counsel of professional direction and help of adults,
plan and carry out their own recreation and social
activities to meet the demand for wholesome and
worthwhile activities in desirable surroundings. It
is a practical way of meeting a need which will
become increasingly difficult of solution when the
war is over. The Youth Center will be designed
to keep normal boys and girls normal. Not a cure
for delinquency, but a preventative—fostering the
theory that most boys and girls———young people—'—
would rather do right than wrong—and would
rather be good than bad.”

Plans for the Building

“The building will be a one story, fireproof con-
crete or native coral rock construction —-——colonial
type, one hundred by one hundred twenty-five feet.
The main entrance and Memorial Rotunda will
contain appropriate tablets in bronze recording the
names of all who have served their country in the
war.

"The building will be located on a site, six hun—
dred by two hundred and twenty feet, conveniently

FEBRUARY 1946

near the bus terminal at the intersection of Ponce
de Leon and Coral Way. It will contain a library,
reading room, lounge, refreshment and lunch
counters, game rooms, showers, IOckers, art and
crafts room for sculpturing and clay modeling,
music room, dance hall, and an attempt will be
made to provide any and all activities in which
children and youth are interested, in work or in
play, to absorb their leisure time.” ' '

In addition to the building, outdoor activities
will be planned, and there will be an outdoor

gymnasium to provide physical fitness program's,

tennis, volley ball, shuffleboard, possibly bowling
alleys, softball, badminton, ping-pong, and any
other outdoor activities of interest to boys and
girls.

$75,000 Needed

After a careful study the Association placed the
final objective of the financial campaign at $75,000
which would provide for the erection on a desir-
able site of a building fully equipped and out-
door gymnasium facilities.

The appeal which was issued over the signature
of Harry \V. Morgenthaler, President, was as
follows:

“DEAR NEIGHBORI

“In America we let our hearts dictate.

“\Vithin the next few days your neighbor
will call upon you for a subscription to our
building fund. This is the first appeal for
financial aid made in Coral Gables, in which
the entire community is interested. All the
funds raised will be expended in'our commu-
nity for the benefit of our own children.

“Please bear in mind this appeal, to pro—
vide a fund of Seventy-five Thousand Dollars
to erect a \Var Memorial Youth Center is not
an annual solicitation. It calls for the raising
of a capital sum to provide a much needed
permanent asset in our community, and we
hope you will consider your participation in
the light of our needs.

“Your neighbor—one of a small group of
volunteers—has joined forces with us, as a
member of a soliciting committee—to obtain
your hnancial assistance. These earnest men

(Confirmed on page 615)

573

What They Say -About Recreation

11 HE KIND OF RECREATION people provide for
Tthemselves as a part of their national life de-
termines largely the kind of society they

build and the kind of national culture they form.”
—From Recreation—A National Economic Asset.

-'“VVe know.that human beings are happiest when
they live with other people—with ‘spaces in their
togetherness.’ \Ve know that individual and group
development can be advanced when certain re-
sponsibilities are assumed, when there is coopera-
tive give—andrtake. . . .”—From Editorial in C Iziid—
hqodEducatian, October 1945.

:i“-Give a man work he can do and the responsi-
bility for doing it; that way there lies happiness in
a job.”——Wiila Roberts in Think.

“Genius is entitled to respect only when it pro-
motes the.peace and improves the happiness of
mankind.”—Lord Esses.

“In a world of change the religious man cannot
content himself by camping about the graves of
ancient. worthies. Religion is at its best when
man . . . is ever faithful in the pursuit of a 'better
here and now for himself, his community, and the
whole family of mankind.”—Herbert Martin in
C harac'ter and Citizenship, October 1945.

“We' need to make greater use of the space-
time factors _of our recreation facilities. Anything
publicly owned—libraries, museums, playgrounds,
schools—shouldbe used to the fullest extent.”—
Sidney Teller.

. “Handicrafts and hobbies are valuable because
they enablewpeople to live with themselves and
others during spare moments.”

“Parks, which are uncared for and unsafe are at
once a waste and a menace.”—Robert Moses,
Commissioner of Parks, New York City.

“Adequate provision for outdoor recreation may
be said,, without exaggeration, to be one of the
primaryreiluisites of our developing social sys-
tem.”-——C.  Rachford.

524. “

“Play is to a child work, thought, art and re-
laxation, and cannot be pressed into any single
formula. It expresses a child’s relation. to himself
and his environment, and, without adequate op-
portunity for play, normal and satisfactory emo-

tional development is not possible.”—Marga¢et
Lowenfeid in Play in Chiidhood.

- “The final test of an economic system is not the
tons of iron, tanks of oil, or miles of textiles it
produces; the final test lies in its ultimate products
—the sort of men and women it nurtures, and the
order and beauty and sanity of their communities.”
—Lewis M mnford in Faith in Living. \

“Recreation will reach all the people, for it is
an inevitable part of every person’s life and is as
much a part of living in a democracy as eating and
sleeping and working.”—G. Ott Romney in Off
the Job Living.

“Plant more flowers and urge others to plant
them. Plant more trees. Make our cities as beau-
tiful as they can be. Encourage pe0ple to do things
with their hands in contact with living things and
with the soil, and you will have made a great con-
tribution to the biological life, the spiritual life,
the general culture and the fine arts which are the
expressions of the pcople.”—L. H. W ei-r.

“Most of our cultural advancement has come

from the uses to which we put our leisure.”—
V. K. Bromt.

“No one can ever get a start in being human
except as a member of a group. Personality is at
once intensely, essentially individual, and at the
same time ideally and inescapably social.”—W. 0.
Carver.

 

“Our heritage of leisure is the result of the ac—

cumnlated toil of countless generations.”—George
H jeite.

“Gradually wilderness has become a cultural
necessity to us, the people of America, and while
it does play an important recreational role, its real
function will always be a spiritual back log in the
high speed mechanical world in which we live.”—
Sigurd Olson-in National Parks M agaaine.

RECREATION

Breaking Into the Movies ' 

to combat the opposition of

the Saturday afternoon
movies? Is it a case of Shirley
Temple, Van Johnson, and Frank Sinatra versus
handcraft, games or dramatics? Then you may be
interested in an experiment that the Oak Park
Playgrounds are trying out in order to meet the
problem. They are fighting fire with fire—they
are themselves making movies.

Some eight months ago a retired business man,
whose hobby was teaching Sunday School. came
to the oil-ice with a suggestion. Old-fashioned Sun—
day School techniques, he contended, were lost on
the modern child. We must have the old com-
mandments but in a streamlined version. \Vtould
the Oak Park Playgrounds care to make movies,
with themes centering around such qualities as
courage, fair play, honesty—using the playground
activities for material and the children in the dra—
matic classes for the actors? It appeared, after
some reflection, that the staff would. The man
with the idea wanted the scripts written by the
director of playgrounds and the action directed by
the instructor in dramatics. He promised to secure
the services of a photographer to take the pictures
and a radio commentator to do the narration. \Ve
had other ideas as well. W hat about interesting a
film-distributing company in defraying the ex-
penses and in renting the films to Sunday Schools,
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts and playgrounds?

ls voua PLAYGROUND trying

Problems and Difficulties

Hectic days followed. To write a script intended
for the camera was a very different matter from
writing one to be given behind the footlights. The
lens shifted every six or
eight seconds. Angles of
vision, variety of pose and
action, light and shadow
lengths, all were part of the
problem. The entire action
had to be timed to a second,
the most minor irrelevance
was out. Because of the ex-
pense of using sound, there
were no speeches for the
actors, but that fact did not

FEBRUARY 1946

Director of Playgrounds
Oak Park. Illinois

Experiment. it might be said, is the life of
program. The fact that some experiments
are doomed to failure at the moment they
are devised doesn't make their undertaking
any the less necessary or important. None-
theless, it is always good news when courage
and wisdom. imagination and hard work and
amodicum.perhaps,ofluck.combinetobring
off a new venture with flying colors. Such is
the record of a flight from old and accepted
usage into new and adventurous activity
on the playgrounds of Oak Park. Illinois.

,-
00-h.-

\
\

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK ‘

mean that lines did not have
to be rehearsed by the children
in order to build up the charac—
terization. An overshadowed
sky meant no shots for the day. A professional cam-
eraman knew just what he didn’t like and he kept
retaking the picture until he got what he was
looking for. The whole action had to be com-
pleted in about eleven minutes, the length of one
roll of sixteen millimeter film. °

The Children’s Reaction-

r 1

And what about the children? They thought the
experiment was pure adventure. Already movie
conscious, they found these new techniques of
acting stimulating and fairly easy. They had sug-
gestions for both settings and action, and they were
not backward in giving them. Attics were cheer-
fully ransacked for this and that property or cos-
tume. There were “technical” assistants galore.
It was the job of one boy to hold a large pieceof
tin as a means of lighting the action, an important
lesson in light refraction. The services of adults.
too, were enlisted. It was one of the playground
caretakers who built the platform necessary for a
high shot. A collie dog was entered in the pet
show just so his master, in the armed forces over—
seas, could have a chance to see him in pictures.
There was one comedy note. The leading lady was
supposed to “register” horror when .her dog was
hurt in an automobile accident. When the dra-
matic director first saw the preview,“ she was
amazed and delighted at the realism of the girl’s ex;
pression. On complimenting her, the young actress
replied: “I was sitting on the grass and a bee
stung me just at the moment. 1 supposewhat you
saw was when it was hap;
pening.” Every time a scene
was shot, there was a group
of bystanders, hoth_children
and adults. One fact that
gave “Hollywood” atmos-
phere was the way in which
the children would appear in
a scene or two, then change
their clothes, sit under a'tree
and have a picnic lunch and

(Continued on page 613)

575

Recreation in America's Secret City

HE van. 0F SECRECY has been
Tlifted. Oak Ridge, Tennessee,

can take its place proudly
among the communities of the
United States. Nestled in the
beautiful hills of Eastern Tennes—
see, unknown to the rest of
America for more than two years until the day that
Nagasaki was left a shambles by one of its prod-
ucts, Oak Ridge can boast an unparalleled story in
the field of recreation.

The Recreation and \Velfare Association of Oak
Ridge—the home of the atomic bomb—provides
all types of recreational opportunities for the
75,000 employees and their families in America’s
Secret City.

The war workers in Oak Ridge had some of the
strangest working conditions ever known. Due
to the secrecy surrounding the nature of the proj—
ect, they never saw the results of their labors.
There was little in which they could take pride.
One of the common incentives for work was not
present and no sense of satisfaction came to the
workers from the feeling of a job well done.

Problem of
Morale

Naturally. this
situation created a
problem of morale
not commonly ex—
perienced in a
modern industrial
plant. In seeking
to c0pe with the
problem an exten-
sive program of
leisure-time activi—
ties to reach all
possible interests
seemed impera-
tive. Thus was
born the Recrea-
tion and \Velfare
Association of
the Atom Bomb
City. It is gov-
erned by a council

576

By J. D. ROBBINS

Director of Social Recreation

and T. R. JARRELL

Director of Physical Recreation
Oalr Ridge. Tennessee

of twelve members elected from
the civil and military personnel at
Oak Ridge. Under the over-all
direction of Swep T. Davis, Man-
aging Director, the Association
Operates numerous community
services including theaters, bowl-
ing alleys, nurseries and, various concessions—a
riding academy, a roller skating rink, an amuse-
ment park, dancing classes, a pool room, an art
school and 'a junior hand. For these activities a
charge is made and from them comes the necessary
revenue to carry out the tremendous free recrea-
tion program of the city.

Physical Recreation

As the Association grew and the recreation ac—
tivities became more and more numerous, it was
necessary to divide the program into two admin-
istrative fields—Physical Recreation and Social
Recreation. The Physical Recreation Department
furnishes a program so rounded that hardly any

Youngsters learn a game

 

RECREATION

RECREATION IN AMERICA’S SECRET CITY

form of sports is omitted. For instance, the in-
dustrial workers and. the adult members of their
families may participate in some thirty organized
activities. High on the list of favorites are soft-
ball, baseball, and basketball, for which there are
line facilities including diamonds equipped for
night play.

Three eveningS'a week throughout the year
trampoline and tumbling instruction classes are
available for youngsters and adults. On special
occasions, this group performs their repertoire of
stunts for the entertainment of thousands of spec—
tators.

Over 25,000 tennis players participated in their
favorite pastime during the summer months.
'1‘wcnty-one concrete and two clay courts are avail—
able for use from early spring to late fall. Special
instruction classes for beginners, conducted by a
former club professional, were available to tennis
enthusiasts several days each week. There is no
charge for these classes.

Enthusiasts of the excellent horseshoe and shuf-
Heboard courts run into the thousands, and there
are many leagues and tournaments for team com-
petition in the more highly organized games.

One of the largest swimming pools in the coun-
try was constructed and opened for operation in

Oldsfers try their skill

\

 

FEBRUARY 1946

577

August. It measures 60,000 square feet and holds
2,100,000 gallons of water and it features a hun-
dred meter straightaway. A grass beach and
modern dressing facilities are planned for the
coming year. Twenty-one thousand bathers used
the pool during the thirty-two day period it was
Operated in August and September.

Social Recreation

In the department of Social Recreation, most of
the activities center around several large and at-
tractive recreation halls. The main idea in regard
to each of these halls is to make them available to
the general public as many hours as possible, and
yet, at the same time, to provide for groups which
like to have private parties.

Physical facilities for the halls, such as game
equipment, were secured in order that all types of
interest groups would be encouraged to have any
kind of party they might want. During the day-
time hours, when most of the people in Oak Ridge
were working, it was anticipated that the use of
the halls would be much lighter than in the eve—
ning hours. However, facilities are available for
those who drop in for casual or unorganized rec—
reation. There are soda fountains, table tennis
equipment, lounging rooms, writing tables, small
game equipment for the use of casual “droppers—
111.

These recreation halls were not planned to be
totally self-sustaining. It
is, however, sometimes
desirable to charge for
their use, but at these
times the price is rea-
sonable and fair, cover-
ing only the direct ex-
penses incurred, thus
making for a'much wider
use of the buildings.

All the programs pro-
moted reflect the public’s
interests. In Oak Ridge
one of the major inter—
ests is dancing. Planned
dances, therefore, are fre-
quently promoted in one
or another of the halls.
In addition, juke boxes
are provided for casual
dancers. A well-known
name band is brought to

(Continued on page 614)

Friends ThrOugh Recreation

Part II

authority that leadership which many‘ people

think has been “thrust upon us”-—-if we are to
look ahead to a “new world a—comin’ ”——recreation
must play its part in a process of Synthesizing the
many elements that make up our complex culture.
Recreation has, in this respect. an obligation and a
privilege, for it can help weave more closely into
the fabric of our one nation the many national
threads from that one world of which we are a part.

The January issue of RECREATION carried the
first part of an article designed to suggest ways of
building a program, on playgrounds and in recrea—
tion centers everywhere, that can use to advantage
such cultural materials. The pages that follow
bring these suggestions to a conclusion. The two
parts of Friends Through Recreation have been
combined and reprinted in a pamphlet which is
available from the National Recreation Association
at a cost of 25 cents a copy.

IF \\'E IN THE UNITED STATES are tO assume Will]

As Others Have Done

Throughout the country during the past few
years groups—in schools, in clubs, in recreation
centers, in whole communities—have been experi-
menting with ways to stamp out intolerance, with
ways to make the ideals of democracy the everyday
practice of democratic people, with ways to make
more currently vital in the community the great
contributions to our culture of the ordinary first or
second generation American. Many of those efforts
are still generally unsung outside the community
where they are going on. Others of them are not
yet ready to be evaluated and passed on for the
use of other communities. From three sources,
however, come suggestions for activities in inter-

cultural relations that can be used in other com-
munities.

The Story of the Springfield Plan tells of two
especially good experiments. Though they were
conducted in schools, they could be adapted, per—

haps with some modifications, to many recreation
programs.

Weeks of work by all classes of an elementary
school, including the kindergarten, went into the
preparation of a Map Fair. The life of Springfield
and the nationality groups that had contributed to

578

that life were graphically illustrated by miniature
models of such things as grocery stores and road-
side stands, ships and planes; by wall maps show-
ing the national origin of each child in the grade
that had made it; by a giant globe with continents
and oceans and states shown on the inside so that
“you could see all the world at once ;” by a cart-
wheel bearing the flags of all the United Nations
upon its spokes. Each child in the school had a
part in explaining and demonstrating the various
parts of the exhibit to the visitors who came to
look at it.1

Students of junior high school age made three
books. One was made up of stories from foreign
countries written by boys and girls whose parents
and grandparents—in some cases the boys or girls
themselves—had left their ancient homes for newer
ones in the United States. Each story was written
in two languages, in English and in the native
language of the child’s nationality background.
Parents and grandparents helped in many cases to
work out the translation. Other groups of children
in the school devised for each story beautiful illus-
trations typical of the country from which the
story came. The pictures were done in crayon or
water color.

A second book, also illustrated in color by hand,
was made from the folk music of the countries
which had nurtured the ancestors of the children.
By far the majority of the songs included came
out of the memories of parents or grandparents
who had sung them “in the old country.”

A third book was made about the stories of men
and women in all walks of life who, coming from
another country, had brought their contributions
of work or song, craft or art, to enrich the life of
Springfield and the United States.

In each case the school children themselves, with
the help of those adult members of their families
closer in time and in space to their original home-
land, made the books. Teachers participated only
to the extent of offering general guidance and of
typing the final drafts since the skills of the young-
sters did not run to handling a typewriter.2

 

IStory of the Springfield (Massachusetts) Plan.
Noble, Inc, New York. pp. 57 ff.

271m. 7  . ‘

Barnes and

RECREATION

‘__ ——“.—_‘ —. A

FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION 579

The Junior Red Cross, preparing material for a
“One World” theme to be used at camps and on
playgrounds, have suggestions for activities in
music and crafts and games that stress the unity
of all people through their contribution to the
whole world.8 They suggest the use in music
groups of such material as Songs of the United
Nations, American Folk Songs, Ballad for Anteri-
cans, Chee Lai, and similar songs to sing in groups
or to listen to by way of one of the excellent com—
mercial recordings that have been made of them.

A craft program included the making of posters
giving racial and national
backgrounds of
famous Ameri—
c an s, m a p 5
showing the
lands of origin
of the people
who have made
America and of
the people who
make up the
immediate com-
munity, a frieze
with crayon or
chalk drawings
depicting activi-
ties of the chil—
dren of the com—
munity and of
other countries,
ascrapbook
history of the
peoples who live
in the United
States—where
they came from
and in what sec—
tions of this
country they
have settled.
ClotheSpin dolls
were dressed in
authentic cos-
tumes of for-
eign countries
designed by

 

315’. Red Cross Bu!-
letr’n, No. 1005.
American Red
Cross, 511 N.
Broad St, Phila-
delphia, Pennsyl-

vania. C onrtesy Dept. of M nnicipal Recreation, M flwaukee, Wis.

FEBRUARY 1946

A group of nuns learn folk dances in Milwaukee

 

drawing groups and made in cloth by sewing
classes or cut out of paper.

' Quiet games were geared to this theme of nation—
ality. Guessing games, such as “Who Am I?” or
“Twenty Questions,” and charades can be developed
about famous Americans of foreign extraction or
of a minority race or religious group. Games cus—
tomarily played by children of other lands may be
included with those of local derivation.

The Camp Fire Girls World Friendship Pro-
gram lists the following among its ideas for pro-
gram leaders: A corner of the main hall at the

camp or indoor center be—
comesa“World
T r e a s u r e
Niche” where
some especially
lovely product
of a foreign
country—clear-
ly labelled and
lighted — is
always on dis—
play. Such ex-
hibits should be
changed fre-
q u en t l y , of
course, but not
so quickly that
any one coun—
try’s contribu-
tion failsto have
time to sink into
the conscious—
ness of all pass-
ers-by.

One group of
C a m p F i r e
Girls made for
themselves a
“Family Tree."
F r o m i t 5
branches hung
paper dolls—in
colorful and in-
teresting array,
for each girl in
the group had
dressed her pa-
per doll in the
native costume
of that country
from which the

580 FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION

child’s forebears had set sail for the United States.

These, obviously do not exhaust the possibilities
in day—to-day use of nationality material by recrea—
tion leaders. Ways of working out new ideas, of
experimenting with new approaches are limited
only by the imagination of the leader. All that any
list of “has-been—dones” can achieve is to point
the direction along which other people have already
pioneered.

Study Groups

Adults can, of course, find as great an interest

as youngsters in the songs and dances and crafts-

that have come over to us from other lands. Their
maturity enables them, however, to go a little
further into the ideas, the whys and the where-
fores of intercultural relations. Regularly held
discussion groups and forums, reading clubs and
study clubs can be developed or stimulated along
with other types of activities. If these can include
persons from many nationality and minority groups
they are apt to develop interesting and valuable
results in the community for everybody concerned
in them.

Classes, too, can be held for new citizens or for
people who are about to become citizens. In one
community, for instance, special classes were held
in English, citizenship, sewing, folk dancing, dra—
matics, home-making and a variety of other courses
“academic” and “practical” under the aegis of the
recreation department and with the cooperation of
schools, churches, and other agencies.

High Days and Holidays

Winter and summer, spring and fall, special
occasions are meat and drink to the program plan—
ner who would use the whole world as his source
of ideas. Our customary festivals like Christmas
and Easter, Thanksgiving, and Halloween, have
their antecedents or their counterparts in rituals
that were already ancient when the first Europeans
set foot upon the land of the new world. Many
feast days celebrated by the Protestant and Roman
Catholic churches are closely matched in time by
days holy to Jews and to members of other faiths.
The rituals are equally beautiful, equally dramatic,
equally spiritual. In the making of many of our
patriotic holidays, men and women who came from
other countries have had no small part. All of
these days and seasons can be made the occasion
for combining the old and the new, the majority
and the minority. the “native” and the “foreign.”

The Turning Year

People who have for many centuries lived close
to the land know the survivals that have lingered
in the folk traditions—survivals from pagan be-
liefs, from half-savage superstitions. In the Europe
of the so—callcd Dark Ages the church tried to
eliminate all traces of pagan belief, but some of the
customs were too ingrained in the lives of the
people to bear rooting out and so the Church ac-
cepted the lesser of those “evils” and made them

respectable by its blessing.

Most of those survivals revolve around the
changing seasons, the end of darkness and cold,
the season of sowing, and the time of the seeds
fruition, the gathering of the harvest. The ritual
celebration of these occasions differs in different
parts of the world, but the occasion itself is com-
mon to all people who till the soil or who draw
their means of life from the tillage of others. The
common interest provides a real opportunity to do
a constructive and instructive demonstration of the
differences with the help of foreign-born people in
the community and of their children and grand—
children. Too much emphasis cannot be put, in
these times when it is increasingly imperative to
combat divisive elements in our culture, upon the
essential oneness of human nature. It cannot be
stated too often or in too many different ways that
the differences in men are superficial, that it is
their essential likenesses that are important and
fundamental.

Many Creeds

As it is with the cycles of nature, so it is with
the cycles in all (or nearly all) creeds. Many of
the feast and the fast days celebrated in any re-
ligion have some connection with the nature cycle.
Thus the festivals of Christmas, of St. Nicholas,
of Santa Lucia, of Hanukkah are closely allied in
time and in spirit. They come at about the same
time of the year. They celebrate, with lights. the
return of light hoth spiritual and physical to the
earth. Thus many people in many lands are re—
joicing in ways peculiar to their heritage at the
same time and over the same thing. To combine
these customs into a joint program will give beauty
and richness and satisfaction in quantities greater
than can be gotten from any one custom cele-
brated by itself. Where elements in the commu—
uity’s population differ in national or racial or
religious background from the majority, they can
be brought creatively into the picture. If the popu—
lation is lacking in minority groups, it would Sllll

RECREATION

FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION 581

be well worth the time
and effort of a program
planner to create a pro—
gram (or to use already
prepared material) that
incorporates as many dif-
ferent customs as possi-
ble, even though this
means some research and
more than a little extra
work.

The same things that
have been pointed out
about the December fes—
tivals of light are true of
the feast of the harvest—
Thanksgiving; of the
feast of the re-birth of
life—Easter; and of other
festivals throughout the
year. The Jewish festi-
vals, especially, are close
in time and in spirit to
those of the Christian
churches, and their dignity, their spiritual quality,
their dramatic beauty are strong recommendations
for their use in combination with Protestant or
Catholic festivals.

Photo by Anita Fowler

The Growth of a Nation

In those days when we honor our national holi-
‘ days—Independence Day, Decoration Day, Armis—
tice Day—people of other national and racial back—
grounds can have a real part. Frenchmen and
Poles, Germans and Jews, Englishmen and Aus-
trians and Russians and Italians have all con-
tributed to our development as a nation. Empha-
sis upon those contributions in celebrations of our
patriotic holidays, as well as emphasis upon the
great number of unsung and unremembered heroes
from Europe and Asia and Africa who have made
us what we are today and will continue to make

us what we will be tomorrow, can do much to '

integrate nationality groups into the life of the
community, to make them feel at home and proud

of the special thing they have to give to the whole
country.

Citizens All

In recent years, in many communities, special
attention has been paid to new citizens of this
country in “I Am an American Day.” Special
ceremonies have marked the occasion when. these

FEBRUARY 1946

 

V 373‘ .09., .. L.-.
Courtesy Palo Alto Children’s Theater

The arts of the theater can bring
understanding of other nations

people cease by law to be foreigners and become
by law citizens of the United States. It is a fitting
thing that this occasion should be so marked, that
each new citizen be singled 'out to have, for a
moment, the spotlight turned on his new status.
Each community must work out for itself the
most appropriate ceremony for its new citizens.
No community should skimp on this day, for it
sets the seal upon a process which has often taken
more courage and brought in its wake more heart-
break than many of us will ever know. Springfield,
again, has worked out a ceremonial for “I Am an
American Day” that has brought both joy and
pride to members of nationality groups there. The
celebration was planned cooperatively by more
than eighty clubs and organizations in the city—
in itself a lesson in the oneness of people who are
all seeking the same goal. It included the presen-
tation of a scroll to each new citizen, a scroll that
was sign and symbol of his new responsibilities as
a citizen. Each person naturalized during the pre-
ceding year received his scroll from the mayor on
the stage before a capacity audience (hundreds of
peOple were turned away). Folk songs and folk
dances were on the program in which clergymen

582 FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION

from the Roman Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant
faiths participated.‘

The choral reading used by another community
in its celebration of “I Am an American Day” has

already been cited (see page 5).

It does not, perhaps, matter very much just how
“I Am an American Day” is celebrated, provided
it is vivid and important, and provided the new
citizens themselves hayersome‘ active part in the
program. It is important that the day be marked
with special activitie'éi'of one kind.or another in all
communities where there are new citizens joining
the old. '

“I Am an American Day” has come to mean
much in communities where it has been really
given a “bang-up” celebration. It means much not
only to the erstwhile foreigners whom it especially
honors, but also to the men and women who were
“born and bred in the briar patch.” It has given
to them a sense of continuity, a feeling of at—one:
ness with all the small streams of people who have
poured their hidden wealth into the river of our
North American culture. On the face of it, it seems
too bad that communities where few people or
none are becoming citizens each year should need
to miss the kind of stimulation and pride that
comes from this celebration.

As a matter of fact, this situation need not be
because there is another kind of celebration fitting
to the occasion and right for it that 'may be substi—
tuted. For, although there are some sections of
the country which are not now in process of re—
ceiving groups of peOple from other nations, there
is none that has not in the past done so. Such
places may well draw upon the history of their
community to present the story (not the problem)
of immigration as an integral part of the town’s
ordered and full development. This kind of pro—
gram will take some digging into the records of the
past, some analysis, a good deal of imaginative use
of facts that may seem staid or dull. But it pre-
sents a real opportunity for community coopera—
tion. The “oldest inhabitant” can have a part in
it. So can the teacher with a yen for historical
research, the antiquarian society, the directors of
the community theater.

A consolidated school in a rural section of Vir-
ginia developed an exciting project from the his—
tory of the county. The whole school and many
out-of-school pe0ple in the district worked on col-
lecting and preparing the material, the dramatiza-

 

4 The Story of the Springfield Plan, pp. 116 ff.

tion and mounting of the production. The whole
county drew pleasure and pride from “their” show.
Such cooperative activity can go into the creation
of a program developed about the nationality
groups that have, in the past, brought their con-
tributions to the growth of the community. The
wider the base, the more people and the more
groups that have part, the more rewarding the
experience will be for the whole community.

Grand Finale

There are a number of ways to put a period to
the season’s work with the kind of material we
have been discussing. Certainly some culminating
activity should be planned for the program whether
it has lasted a week or a year, and this final flour—
ish should accent all the activities that have been
involved. A fair or festival, a pageant, a living
newspaper type of play could be used to “show
off” to the community at large the things that have
been accomplished —-the folk dances, the puppet
shows, the'arts and crafts and music and games.
Such a production will enable the recreation de—
partment to bring the community at large into the
experiences of its own constituents. It will give the
groups which have been working on one or more
aspects of the program an opportunity to see the
whole picture in clear focus, to see themselves and
their part in the day-to-day program in proper re-
lationship to a whole idea. It will help to integrate
nationality groups into the whole community, will
give them a deeper sense of belonging, of having
contributed concretely and obviously to the place
they now call home. Where there are tensions or
prejudices or intolerance, it will help to minimize
them.

For all these reasons the culmination of such a
program deserves the best efforts of all the people
concerned—their imaginative planning, their care-
ful work, their close cooperation with each other
and with members of other community organiza-
tions which may be helping on the production. It
deserves a carefully thought out and carefully exe—
cuted promotion campaign to spread the news of
the coming event and to stimulate interest in it.
It doesn’t necessarily need a great extra outlay of
money because the material at hand is chockablock
with color and interest and excitement. It does
not need much gilding with elaborate costumes or
scenery. Suggestions of national dress in costume
accessories and stylized motifs drawn from charac-
teristic designs of the countries involved will do
what is necessary to set the program.

RECREATION

'f
I

 

FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION

Come to the Fair

Perhaps the most satisfactory finale to the
program, one that has been widely used, is the
folk festival. It lends itself with equal felicity to
the folkways of a region, a nation or a world. It
can be adapted to a special occasion or it can stand
alone on its own merits. It has room within its
boundaries for all the many activities of the day-
to-day program, for dancing and singing, games
and demonstrations and exhibitions- and plays and
puppet shows. It has room, too, for each child or
adult who has been participating in the season’s
activities to have a part in the final demonstration.
It can be easily adapted to the physical facilities
available to the community.

Planning. The planning of the festival should,
really, be part and parcel of planning the whole
program for it is “of a piece” with the rest, not
something extra that is tacked on like an after-
thought. The craft classes, the choruses and bands,
the puppet and live—actor plays, the dancing and
the games should all build naturally and logically
to the final demonstration. Actually, when the end
of the season’s day-to-day program comes, the fes-
tival should be ready for presentation except for
the finishing touches and a rehearsal or two to
insure the smooth running of the numbers.

C ostnmes, whether they are elaborate or simple.
can be made in craft groups. So can the back-
ground settings or decorations for the hall or
street, playground or outdoor theater which is to
be used. The festival program will grow out of
the dances that have been learned, the songs that
have been sung, the stories that have been told or
acted out.

Because the final program grows out of the
day—to-day programs, the planning should have a
high degree of flexibility. The participants should,
if possible, have a part in it. All the activities
should be a program-in-the-act-of—beeoming, set in
its final form only just far enough in advance of
the presentation to guarantee a really finished per-
formance before the audience.

Promotion. To guarantee an adequate audience,
a promotion plan is desirable. To guarantee the
largest possible audience it is a necessity. No mat-
ter what fine cooperation there is between the rec—
reation department and the press and radio, no
matter what herculean labors of publicity the de-
partment has accomplished “on its own” in the
past, it can still do a better job if it has the
active cooperation of all other community agencies.

FEBRUARY 1946

583

A program of this kind is—or should be—of
vital interest to the whole community. The whole
community has, in a very real sense, a stake in it.
Many people in the community not actively affili-
ated with the recreation department may well have
contributions to make to the success of the pro—
gram. Therefore, a wise promotion plan will take
the whole community, through its organization,
into the planning for the program and its final
demonstration. An advisory board formed from
members of community organizations such as libra-
ries, museums, P.T.A. groups, junior leagues,
youth agencies, community centers and settlements,
organized or semi-organized minority groups,
schools and churches could be brought into the
picture when the planning first gets under way,
kept informed through occasional meetings of the
progress of the work, and used to the fullest when
the time comes to publicize the festival. It is
obvious that no one should be invited to sit on this
committee who is not entirely in sympathy with
the aims of the program. The committee, more-
over, should not be allowed to get too large.

The end of the promotion plan is to see that
every person in the city knows about the festival-—
when it is to be held, where it is to be held, where
to get tickets if tickets are needed, what to do in
case of rain if the program is scheduled for out-of-
door performance. The italics in that sentence are
the main reason why the department needs the
support of other groups. No one agency, alone,
can do that job. Nor can an article in the news-
paper or a radio program, alone, do the job. In
addition to these organs of communication there
are many others that can be used effectively-—
posters and handbills; bookmarks; announcements
to schools, churches, P.T.A. groups, Scouts, A.A.
U.\V.’s, service clubs, women’s clubs and the like;

cards in street cars and busses; movie trailers;
bulletins.

Setting up the Program. It is not possible to set
up a single plan for a festival that will be equally
suitable for all communities. There are too many
variable factors, too many details of facilities and
personnel that cannot be known or foreseen to any—
one outside the community. But there are some
general principles that should be considered in the
planning,”

Certainly where there are many minority groups,
many national or racial or religious strains present
in the community, plans should seek to incorpor-
ate them all into the program. Thus the program

584 FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION

will “do the most good,” and thus the program will
gain in variety and color and interest. If there is
no nationality group in the community, the culture
of one nation or the history of the community
itself might be used as the theme of the program.
In this case it is desirable to have represented as
far as possible those minority religious or racial
elements which exist in every town or city.

Certainly, too, each activity should be given a
place on the program. It may be possible, for in-
stance, to include not only an exhibit of work done
by arts and crafts groups but, in addition, an
actual demonstration of such a group at work.
So, too, with forums or discussion groups that have
been going on during the season. Their activities
might be included in miniature on the final pro—
gram.

For exhibits of material developed during the
day-to-day-program, the participants—children or
adults—can act as guides to explain the display
and to answer questions about it. If they have
been a part of the group responsible for the ex-
hibits they will be fully qualified to talk about them
with interest and enthusiasm to a less well-in-
formed public.

Perhaps the keynote of the festival is gaiety,
gaiety and variety. One community plans each
year a colorful and stimulating “show.” It is held,
in this case, indoors in a hall made over with paint
and canvas, beaverboard and lumber to create a.
background in keeping with the spirit of the oc—
casion. In this setting one can see a panorama of
American culture, activity following activity in
kaleidoscopic patterns and colors. Strolling min—
strels, jesters, dancers (3,000 of them), fortune—
tellers, bands, puppet shows, craftsmen, exhibits,
old world food markets throw into sharp pictorial
focus the customs and costumes brought to this
country by the folk of many lands.

A Frame of Words

The pageant is a more formal type of produc-
tion. It should be given some kind of an explana—
tory framework. A narrative script giving the
background of the activities, some data about the
nationality groups involved, some comment on
their contribution to the life of the community and
the culture of the country might be read—radio—
wise—from behind the scenes over a public ad—
dress system or given from the stage by a narrator.
The device of placards carrying, in large and
clearly readable print, a brief descriptive comment
about each part of the program could. be used in a

small auditorium. If a printed program is in order,
it could carry notes on the production. A “Pro-
logne,” in appropriate costume, might read or
“speak a piece” about the festival and how it grew.
If a verse-speaking choir is part of the commu-
nity’s facilities, the eXplanatory materials could be
cast in the form of a dramatic reading and incor-
porated directly into the program. If there is the
necessary talent available, the whole pageant might
be framed by a. dramatic episode or episodes. This
kind of thing, however, needs to be especially well
done and should be attempted only if there are, in
addition to talent for dramatic writing, enough
time and enough interested people in the commu—
nity to do a really fine job.

The “living newspaper type of play” is a some-
what different problem. It demands more formal
dramatic leadership and should probably not he
attempted unless someone in the community who
is ,willing to work with the recreation department
has the skill and some experience in constructing
this type of program. It is too, 011 the whole, a
more mature approach and a more serious ap-
proach to material than is the festival. It seems un—
likely that it would be an easy form to use with
younger children. It requires some research on the
part of the participants and a good deal of thought
and analysis if it is to be truly effective. With an
adult or nearly adult group under trained leaders
something as fine as Hull House’s H alstead Street
might develop, but it would seem wise, on the Whole.
not to rush too quickly into plans for a production
of this sort.‘ On the other hand, if there seems to
be a clear sign that the participants in the program
or in any part of it are steering toward such an
activity, by all means let it develop as all or part
of the final demonstration.

Word of Warning

In the final analysis, each group must work out
for itself the plan best suited to its own peculiari-
ties. The all important thing to remember is that
this is a community-wide program in the real mean-
ing of that phrase. There is no place in it for in—
tolerance, for “favoritism,” for half-way measures.
If the community is really not ready for intercul-
tural activities of this kind, don’t force the issue by
insisting on plans that will only antagonize. (This
is not to say, however, that a few antagonistic peo—
ple should be allowed to kill something that the
community as a whole is sympathetic to and ready
to accept.) It is always possible, however, to start
withpeople where they are and to bring them

RECREATION

' FRIENDS THROUGH RECREATION 585

along gradually to a clearer point of view. That is
always possible if no “backs are gotten up” in the
process. This is, of course, a subtle and sometimes
dangerous business, dangerous to the very aims it
seeks to reach. Neither chicken-hearted docility
nor foolhal'dy insistence on the “finer” point of
view will succeed in doing the job that needs to be
done. It takes a nice blend of courage and wisdom
and imagination and understanding. of the com-
munity to reach the end of this road of cultural
maturity, to achieve the “creative use of cultural
differences.” Certainly it is a job that needs doing
and that challenges the ingenuity to make it a
success.

Program Aids

1. Community Resources

NOTE: Places to go for help in setting up a program
such as that outlined here will vary from community
to community. The resources suggested here are a
few of those which might be available. This list is
intended to be suggestive rather than exhaustive.

Schools are a possible source for part-time special-
ists (volunteer or professional) in music, crafts,
discussion groups, dance, choral speaking, dramaties.
It might be possible to arrange a curriculum tie-up,
though this is obviously impossible and unwise
unless the schools are in sympathy with the idea.

Libraries, city and state.

Folle lore, antiquarian or historical societies, city or
state.

Museums

Lia-tension services of state universities may be able
to supply from their audio-visual aids departments
films, recordings, movie equipment, transcription
play-backs, tilm strip projectors and film strips.

Bookstores and record shops

Churches (of all denominations) and synagogues

2. A Few Books for Background Reading

Story of the Springfield Plan, by Clarence I. Chatto
and Alice L. Halligan. Barnes and Nobel, New
York, N. Y.
A discussion of the phi1050phy and techniques used
in Springfield, Mass, to combat intolerance and
foster intercultural education.

Get Together Americans, by Rachel Davis—Dubois.

Harper and Bros., New York, N. Y.
An analysis of what has come to be known as the
“Neighborhood Home Festival,” one of the ap-
proaches to intelligent intercultural relations, as it
was developed and as it is being used by Dr. Davis-
Dubois and her associates. The appendices are a
mine of information about the customs, songs, fes-
tivals of many racial and religious groups.

They See for Themselves, by Spencer Browns Har-
per and Bros., New York, N. Y.

FEBRUARY 1946

The record of an experiment in intercultural edu-
cation which used the art of making plays as a
means of discovering and interpreting some of the
causes and results of community tensions.

A Nation of Nations, by Louis Adamie. Harper and
Bros., New York, N. Y.

A study of the ethnic strains that make up the
United States and of the contributions of those
strains to our stream of culture.

A Treasury of American Folklore, ed. by E. A.
Botkin. Crown Publishers, New York, N. Y.

3. A Few Program Materials

Book of Festivals, by Dorothy Gladys Spicer. Womans
Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y.

A calendar of festivals celebrated throughout the
world with a short but graphic description of each.

World Friendship Ceremonial, “The Camp Fire
Girl,” -April 1945. Camp Fire Girls, 88 Lexington
Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Channkah Programs. National Council of Jewish
Juniors, 1819 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Four Freedoms Ceremony, Camp Fire Girls
Hi, Neighbor! Camp Fire Girls

C h-ildren’s Games from Many Lands, by Nina Millen.
Friendship Press, New York, N. Y.

Skip to My Lou. Girl Scouts, New York, N. Y.

Traditional Games, Handy II, Section N. Church
‘Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio

Games, by Jessie Bancroft. The Macmillan Co., New
York, N. Y.

Games the l-Vorld Around, by Sarah Hunt and Ethel
Cain. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, N. Y.

Fall: Festival Handbook, Evening Bulletin Folk
Festival Association. Bulletin Building, Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania.

For the Storyteller. National Recreation Associa—
tion, New York, N. Y.

A Program for Thanksgiving. National Recreation
Association. '

Festival of Light, A Program for Christmas.
National Recreation Association.

4. Some Recordings and Transcripticins
Folk Music in the United S totes

Records prepared under the jurisdiction of the Li—
brary of Congress and dealing with such subjects
as Anglo-American Ballads, Negro W'ork Songs
and Calls, Play and Dance Songs and Tunes.
Catalog of Records, No. 2, is available from the
Library of Congress, Washington, D. C. (Recorded
at 78 r.p.-m. for victrolas or record players.)

Americans All, Immigrants All
A series of recordings {dealing in dramatic form

with some famous Americans. Prepared under the
oversight of Rachel Davis-Dulbois for the United

(Continued on page 612)

BOUT FIVE YEARS AGO a pair of ski enthusiasts,
A' Ford and Peggy Sayre, came to Hanover,
V New Hampshire. Therelnthey found that
rural children were not enjoying their natural
heritage of winter sports because they needed to
he taught to ski and to skate. So, as volunteers,
Ford and Peggy Sayre began to teach their young

neighbors. , .
Then came the war. Ford Kent Sayre, like so

many of his generation, crashed in a fighting plane
while he was in the armed service of his country.
His friends, seeking to pay tribute to him through
ineans most appropriate to his living interests set
up a memorial fund to continue the work of in-
structing rural children in skiing.

Living Memorial

Mrs. Sayre carried on the job that she and her
husband had started. Working with the volunteer
committee she arranged with superintendents of
rural schools to dismiss the youngsters fifteen
minutes earlier at noon once or twice a week. The
noon hour is especially good as a skiing time for
younger children because it is not so cold and does
not conflict with school transportation schedules.
Children bolted their lunches and rushed out to ski.

Many of them did not have skis at first. Many
of those who had a pair found
them too small or too large. Some
skis were held on by rubber jar
rings. So, inexpensive pine skis
were bought for each school. The
ski-less children were given pro-
perly fitted skis from this store.
Others of the youngsters traded
their ill-fitting skis for a pair 
that fit.

The first thing that the children
were taught was how to fall down.

It was fun, watching the instructor
fall downy-to .show them how. In
order to get the children to par-
ticipate in' contests, a'carnival w‘as
 Eve'r'i'the ones who couldn’t
ski or skate veryowell werelurged
to enter. In order to make things
fairer, tzhedchildren had to enter
both the skiing and skating con-

tests. This gave each one an‘ equal . 1r. 4.4;.

i.

586

 ,'*-_Falls to Christies. .' 

.{gg

opportunity. Certificates were given to encourage
participation in the carnivals. Badges were given
to children for each year of skiing. '

Ski School ’

Mrs. Sayre also directs the Hanover Inn Chil-
dren’s School which was first started in 1936 at
the suggestion of several mothers who were anxious
to send their children to the snow country during
the February school vacation. Twenty-five chil-
dren arrived at the ski camp operated for
the Dartmouth Outing Club, and stayed for a
week. With one ski instructor to help the director
the class started on elementary turns, learned some-
thing about cross-country skiing, waxing and, most
important of all, the love of the sport. The “teach-
ers” had such a good time developing these young
pioneers that the next year a Ski School was set
up exclusively for youngsters from eight to twelve
years of age.

The Hanover Inn became the headquarters of
this school, and since 1937 two schools have been
operated each year for youngsters of various ages.
An instructor for every eight childre nand a “ski—
ing” trained nurse who goes out with the School.
now make up the staff. The boys and girls come
from all parts of the East, bag and baggage, as if

I

 

  

 

I- .rk, " .

Courtesy Lo: Angela: Cbunty Department of Recreation

I - RECREATION

FALLS T0 CHRISTIES 587

they were headedifor a summer
camp and the Ski School be-
comes an old-fashioned winter

vacation.

I

First Steps

The broad treeless slopes of the
Hanover Country Club make
ideal terrain for beginners, and
the more advanced progress to
the slopes of Oak Hill and other
hills made famous by the exploits
of the Dartmouth ski team. The
first thing a beginner must learn
is how to get up from a fall, for
it is only natural to sit in case of
any unpleasant emergency! Next
he learns to ski on the level in an
easy gliding motion and to climb
by means of side stepping and
long traverses. W’ith these first
steps mastered the novice takes to
the tops of the hills and comes
down. He runs down a few times
straight and out on the flats——
but only a few times as control
must be mastered by all skiers.

Control starts with simple snow
plows which slow up the skier
immediately and make it safe to
take short cross-country trips
where it is necessary to go cautiously. From snow
plows the beginner advances to snow plow turns,
stem turns and Christies. Naturally not everyone
reaches the advanced turns but the easier turns are
accomplished by almost all of the children.

The more advanced in both the junior and
senior divison go through a rapid review of the
fundamentals before advancing to side slipping
and christianias. The christie is one of the most
important turns in all skiing and the most difficult
to master properly. Along with the work on
christies, we take up cross-country racing steps,
jump turns, slalom running, and temp turns. The
youngsters love to take small jumps and it is ex-
cellent exercise to develop balance, timing and con-
lidence. Cross-country trips and hare and hound
chases help put their legs in condition and con—
vince them of the necessity of mastering the turns.

The first event on the school program is the
checking of equipment. Bindings must fit rigidly
holding the boot to the ski with as little play as
possible. The skis themselves have to be looked

FEBRUARY 1946

Paul Parker Photo

 

Courtesy G if! S coat:

over to make sure they are not warped or too
large or _too small for the youngster who is to use
them. The importance of good equipment cannot
be minimized especially for a begirmer and lessons
with improper equipment are not' only wasted but
might spoil the youngster’s interest in the sport. '

Program

The first morning of the Ski School starts off
with breakfast at quarter of eight. A short session
of bed making and room straightening follows.
There is quite a feeling of competition as a prize
goes at the nnal banquet to the best boy and the
best girl “housekeeper.” A check-up on snow con-
ditions tells us what kind of waxes to use for the
day and the class goes to the Ski Hut to wax the
skis. The major part of the work is done by the
youngsters with the advice of the instructors for
it is good practice and part of the sport.

By ten o’clock, the sun is high and we are
ready to ski across the campus, through the Col-

(Continued on page 600)

Winter Sports
- in

Latitude 42°

11on COUNTY, NEW JERSEY, is in that lati—
U tude which keeps it from being a summer

paradise but at the same time makes the en-
joyment of winter sports an uncertainty during the
cold months of the year.

Snowfall has ranged from as little as 5.8 inches
in 1931 to as much as 37.3 inches in 1941, and
mean temperatures for the two coldest months,
December and January, have been 33.5 and 30.7,
respectively, for a ten—year period.

It is surprising to most people, therefore, when
they learn that for just a five-year period—1940-
1944 inclusive—the Union County Park System’s
winter sports facilities accommodated 1,206,974
participants. Success of this program in “Latitude
'42°” is attributed jointly to several factors which
include determining the need and desire for win-
ter sports among various age groups as well as in
different sections of the county.

Matching Needs to Locations

Matching the need to the locations available for
meeting that need presents the next problem. At
this point, topography of the land, and the extent
to which it has. already been developed for other
purposes becomes a factor. In the case of flooded
areas, to be used as additional skating ponds, the
ease with which drains can be blocked to prevent
the loss of water generally helps determine whether
it is feasible to convert a soccer field, an unde-
veloped field, or some other play area into a place

 

' _" i. B F inn-til ‘- i Effi  it;

Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park-5335:9221:

 

to skate. How cheaply an area for skating can be
maintained also depends greatly on whether or not
extensive pumping will be required to maintain a
certain level of water in a flooded area.

When the area under consideration passes the
test as far as satisfactory cheap maintenance is
concerned, it is considered from the standpoint of
accessibility by car or bus transportation. How—
ever, in a small county, such as Union, this factor
has not required too much attention since there are
many miles of excellent county roads and state
highways crisscrossing the county.

By far the most successful double utilization of
an area for both summer and winter sports has
been at the Park Commission’s twenty-sevenwhole
Galloping Hill Golf Courses, Kenilworth and
Union. Here, a course that meets the demands of
nearly 50,000 golfers each year, is converted in
the winter into a miniature “Sun Valley,” with
fast toboggan slides, steep slopes designed for ski-
ing only, other slopes set aside specially for coast-
ing, and a flooded area that offers excellent skating
possibilities after only a few days of below-freez-
ing weather.

\Vhat is normally the golf house restaurant in
the summer is converted to the sale of candy,
cigarettes, hot chocolate, and franks each winter,
and part of this large room is used for storing and
renting toboggans. Attendance ranging as high as
17,000 for one Sunday has been reported at Cal—
loping Hill.

Since the Park Commission
operates only one golf course,
other areas have not lent them—
selves as readily to such concen-
tration of facilities for all four
winter sports in one park. How-
ever, the utilization of bleacher
boards and bleacher horses has
enabled the Commission to erect
excellent coasting towers in sev-
eral other parks, and these have
found favor with children living

RECREATION

 

within walking dis-
tance of such areas.

As for ice skat-
ing, the Commis-
sion thinks that “if
it's a lake or a pond.
it can be used for
skating." In other
words, nearly every water area in the county
parks is open to skaters when the surface is frozen
to a required thickness. A division is made, how—
ever, into “supervised” and “unsupervised” areas;
supervision in this case referring to whether an
area is cleared and scraped regularly by the main-
tenance department or whether the clearing and
scraping is considered secondary to the use of the
needed equipment for some other purpose, such as
plowing roads and paths after a snowfall.

Telling the Public

Because Union County is in that weather zone
which gives no assurance of continued cold weather
or satisfactory snow conditions for a prolonged
period, residents of the county have had to depend
on 'being told at once when suitable weather de—
velops for their favorite sport. “Telling the pub-
lic" then, has been considered the third and one of
the most important factors in the Commission’s
annual winter sports program.

Publicity has ranged from the distribution at
the beginning of the season of an attractive facili—
ties folder in which all facilities are listed and regu—
lations governing their use outlined, to the daily
telephoning of last—minute information to local
newspapers as soon as the various facilities are
actually placed in operation.

One of the most useful devices for making day—
by—day information available to the greatest num-
ber of county residents has been an arrangement
made with more than twenty municipal police and
recreation departments and local sports shops.
Each day a clerk at the Park Commission notifies
each of these departments and organizations of
any change in skating or snow-sport conditions.

FEBRUARY 1946

- rid

      

Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park bystem

The list of these organizations is published and
persons in the various towns have become accus-
tomed to calling the organizations listed in their
own towns, thus permitting toll-free calls, and
also relieving the pressure on the Park Com-
mission’s own switchboard. That board, with live
trunk lines, in spite of the arrangement outlined,
has handled more than 100 calls an hour at times
when sudden weather changes have made ice skat-
ing seem imminent on various park lakes.

That long period that a manufacturer would
refer to as “the introduction of a new product” has
long since passed with the Park Commission. At
first, this “introduction” in the Commission’s case
meant acquainting the public with the fact .that
winter sports were a part of its program, despite
the prevailing notion that there was neither enough
snow nor cold weather to support such a program.

How far that introductory period has been left
behind is shown by the annual attendance reports.
Skiing has zoomed from 113 in 1929 to 10,501 in
1944, with a “high” of 23,235 recorded in 1939.
Skating has climbed from 36,170 in 1929 to as
high as 382,846 in the best year. An inauspicious
first year for the Commission’s toboggan slides in
1937 with a participation of 385 jumped, in two
seasons, to a total of 20,000. Increases in coasting
have been even more marked.

The Commission’s recreation department has
even found it possible, despite the handicap of
“Latitude 42°,” to organize a ski club that num—
bers nearly a hundred active members and a four—
team ice hockey league that goes into action each
season when suitable ice conditions develop. Union
County Outdoor Speed Skating Championships,
sanctioned by the Middle Atlantic Skating Asso-
ciation of the U. S. Amateur Skating Union, are
scheduled each season as are county meets in coast-
ing and cross-country skiing.

The conclusion is that any program that can
attract 1,200,000 participant's over a five-year
period, in a county whose population only totals
330,000, is definitely worth ‘ivhile. And so it will
seem to .RECREATtoN’s readers, too.

589

Minneapolis—Winter Wonderland

REEZING temperatures and
F an abundance of snow

that go with a Minne-
sota winter hold no terrors .
for the residents of Minneapolis, the state’s me-
tropolis. Rather, old King Boreas is greeted with
enthusiasm by the inhabitants of this northern city,
for skis and skates are standard equipment for
those hardy folk from childhood on, and the city
area of fifty-nine square miles abounds with hills
and lakes for winter sports.

The city recreation agency, the Recreation De—
partment of the Board of Park Commissioners,
makes full use of Nature’s winter bounty. This
year, for example, the Department is maintaining
forty-one skating rinks, two ski slides, six lighted
hockey rinks, and one lighted speedskating track.
The total estimated participation in winter sports
during the 1944-45 season was 798,013.

The two most popular winter sports centers are
thronged with enthusiasts, spectators, and partici-
pants alike, every week end of the winter season.

At the Powderhorn speedskating track, members
of the six skating clubs of. the city vie for honors
over a course which leading skaters from the
United States and Canada have adjudged “the tin-
est speedskat-
ing track in the
world.” Its lo-
cation at the
bottom of the
sunken bowl
formed by Pow-
derhorn Lake
affords ideal
conditions for
racing with a
minimum of in-
terference from
winter winds.
Club events are
held each Sun-
day and crowds
of 10,000 spec—
tators are not
unusual for the
more important
meets.

590

By KARL B'Z RAYMOND

Director of Recreation
Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners

 

. I- t. '
. 3.. n , o. . I p‘. .

American Legion posts of
the city are sponsors for the
six speedskating clubs. They
furnish uniforms and coach-
ing for the skaters and provide officials for the
weekly meets.

A fine Spirit of friendly international rivalry
exists between the Minneapolis clubs and the speed-
skating associations of Winnipeg and St. Boniface
in Manitoba, Canada. The leading skaters of the
two cities have met for the past fifteen years in an
annual home and home series of tournaments.

The emphasis on winter sports has borne fruit
in national tournaments in both skiing and skating
as Minneapolis competitors have won more than
their share of championships. At the present time,
the national records in twenty-three out of forty-
seven' events recognized by the Amateur Skating
Union of the United States are held by Minne-
apolis skaters.

Six hundred and eighty-one acre Theodore
\Virth park with its variety of hills and valleys is
a mecca for skiers and tobogganers. Slalom and
downhill skiers make full use of the lighted ski
course behind the Wirth Chalet, while the weekly
jumping meets attract an average of a hundred
competitors
each Sunday in

events sponsor-

ed by the Park
Board.

Every oppor—
tunity is given
to youngsters
w h o w i s h to
compete in the
Park Board’s
skating and ski—
ing event&
Each skiing and
skating club has
a coach to give
pointers to as—
piring competi-
tors and events
are run off in

(Continued on
page 606)

 

Courtesy Union County, N. L, Park System

RECREATION

Fun en Skates

number of American sec-
ondary schools, skating was

given second place in the list

of pupils’ favorite sports. It has had a very promi-
nent place in the program of recreation activities
at the Newtown high school in Long Island where,
in 1937, a skating club was organized.

The club has had a most successful career.
Hockey and speed skating are the choice of boys,
while girls are eager to learn ice and roller dancing
and to do a free style routine. At meetings of the
club held twice a month, coach and student in-
structors give blackboard lessons in school figures,
dance steps, and the techniques of starting and
finishing races, and of hockey plays.

On Mondays club members practice both roller
and ice skating at the City Rink in Flushing
Meadow Park, site of the \Vorld’s Fair of 1939.
Fifty boys and girls divide into smaller groups to
learn speed skating, sch'ool figures, dancing and
free style routines. Many come to enjoy the socia-
bility which is one of the objectives of the club. At
Christmas time the skating club members took over
the assembly program with a fashion show, talks
on skating and an address by the student national
roller skating champion. Another event is a skat—
ing broadcast when the purposes and activities of
the club are discussed by members, and listeners
are invited to join the club at an exhibition of
skating at a near-by'rink. Among the members of
the club are a number of outstanding amateur
champions and some of the students have joined
the casts of various ice and roller shows.

Once each term the club charters a bus, and
members ride t9 Bear Mountain, New York State,
‘for an entire day of winter sports including skat-
ing, skate sailing, skiing and tobogganing. Parents
and friends of the students join the party which
often numbers a hundred or more. At this annual
winter sports party a little carnival is staged, pat-
terned after the famous Dartmouth Winter, Car—

nival. The events include:
1. Opening march—everybody skates for movie camera
2. Race for boys at one mile
3. Figure skating exhibition, 8, 3, loops, brackets, etc.
4. Race for girls at half mile
5. Free style exhibition jumps, spins and spirals

IN A RECENT POLL taken in a

FEBRUARY 1946

By ROLAND C. GEIST

Secretary of the College Skating Club miles
of New York

6. Relay race—nfour-man teams two

7. Faculty race (most amusing

event)
8. Dance exhibition waltz, ten step,

fox trot and tango
9. Hockey—Seniors vs. Juniors
10. Skate sailing race—live miles

This year neighboring high school skating clubs
have been invited to join the festivities.

In addition to skating, club members also enjoy
bicycling tours, hikes along the Palisades, theater
parties at current ice shows and motion pictures,
and boat rides to West Point to see the dress
parade and football‘game at the stadium. An ex-
hibit has been planned in a Fifth Avenue sport
store to display old skates, the Newtown Club’s
medals and trophies, the “N” award for outstand-
ing merit in skating, scrapbooks about skating, and
Newtown activities in particular.

The College Skating Club

Club organized in 1933 on the Lake Placid Snow

Train when a group of college undergraduates and
graduates decided to come to Lake Placid each
season to enjoy skating and skiing. Most of the
members come from Columbia, New York Uni-
versity, City College, Hunter College, Barnard,
and Manhattan College. They first called them—
selves “The Whitefaces of Lake Placid” because
of their untanned skin, but as they became more
professional skaters and skiers they decided on a
more professional name.

Among the activities of this older group are an
annual trip to Lake Placid over a two or three day
holiday, skating twice a week in New York, usually
at Rockefeller Plaza Rink at Radio City, and in-
doors at the Brooklyn Ice Palace. In the summer
bathing outings are held at Jones Beach with a
half day of roller skating at the splendid outdoor
roller rink. Last summer several members eu-
joyed a bicycling tour around Cape Cod with
couples traveling by tandem.

Both Are Fun!

Which is more popular, roller or ice skating?
Here are a few facts of interest to anyone seeking
the’ answer-7 to that; question.

591

592 FUN 0N SKATES

There are roughly about three times as many
roller skates manufactured in the United States as
there are ice skates, and about the same three to
one ratio holds for rinks. There is, however, only
one professional roller skating show touring the
United States to three ice shows.

School figures, free skating. aud'daucing may be
enjoyed on both types of skates. Roller skates
seem to attract most teen-agers and most pe0ple
find it easier to balance on four wheels than on a
single blade. Admission fees to roller skating rinks
are lower than to ice rinks, and professional in-
struction is less expensive for roller skaters. Mu-
nicipal ice rinks charge about $.50 for admission,
but private rinks about $1.00. ice figure skating
instruction costs about $8.00 to $12.00 an hour.
Both types of skating have the advantage of being
year-round sports in rinks. The open air ice rink
located at Sun Valley, Idaho, is open from 6 A. M.
to II A. M. and from 4 P. M. to II P. M. (It will re-

open in 1946.)

Skates Should Be Good

The best way to get started in either roller or
ice skating is to buy a good pair of skates. Boots
must fit correctly. Most parents, when purchasing
skates, buy them a few sizes too large for their
children to allow for growth. Ill-fitting boots are
sure to discourage the beginner. For dancing and
figure skating, figure skates with rounded blade
with teeth in front are the proper equipment. For
speed skating buy the long blades, fifteen inches to
seventeen inches, according to your height and
foot size. For indoor or outdoor racing on large
or small tracks or for hockey there is a regulation
hockey skate, but do not buy hockey skates for
figure work. It is of the utmost importance to buy
a boot that fits snugly, and then the correct type
of blade. Roller skates do not have as wide a
variation as ice skates. It is possible, however, to
obtain figure rollers for quick turning.

After you have equipped yourself properly it is
well to obtain some instruction from friends, club
amateurs or professionals. Membership in the club
will add to your skating pleasure as you will meet
experienced skaters who have much to show you.

To be a good skater you should practice regu-
larly. Once a week is not enough; three times a
week is good. As you become more expert, enter
competitions in speed skating, the Silver Skates
and similar events.

To enjoy skating it is not necessary to go into

extremely strenuous training. Attend your rink‘

regularly, learn the dances, enjoy the free skating,
do a few school figures (there are about 44) or
just putter around, but whatever you do have fun
doing it.

- Collecting Skatana'

The real skating fan goes in for Skatana col-
lecting, buying up and trading items of various
kinds relating to skates and skating. Old skates
are first on the list: Old Currier and Ives skating
prints are rare and costly, but are popular items
for collections. Old skating programs such as
those from the New'York Hippodrome show are
large in demand and there are always skating
prizes and trophies.

Sheet music collecting is a hobby of its own.
10th ice and roller skating music is in demand by
antique dealers and collectors. The club collection
includes forty—one pieces of sheet music dealing
with ice skating beginning with “Merril r N ow the
Skaters Co,” by Charles E. Horn an Thomas
Power dated 1837 and “The Skaters Vt’altzes" by
Emil W’aldteufel dated 1897.

Keeping a scrapbook is a highly desirable hobby
and possibly the best of all for sheer interest. Clip
anything interesting you see about skating in maga-
zines or new5papers and paste it into a scrap—
book. A photograph album, especially if the photo-
graphs are autographed, is particularly interest-
ing. Posters may be collected. (These may be
secured from traveling ice show publicity bureaus.)
Old skating books are available from second-hand
and new book dealers. Trade cards of skaters,
popular about the turn of the century, make a
comic collection. Skating jewelry—pins, brooches
and other items are interesting.

Books on Skating

Here are a few books on roller and ice skating.

Roller Skating
Martin, Bob Roller Skating. A. S. Barnes. New York,
1944.
Traub, Morris Roller Skating Through the Years. Fred-
erick Press, New York, 1944.
Amateur Roller Skaters Handbook. Amateur Roller
Skating Association, New York, 1943.

Ice Skating

Boeckl, \V. R. LVilly Boeekl on Figure Skating. Moore
Press, New York, 1937.

Brokaw, Irving The Art of Skating. Scribners, New
York, 1926.

Cummings, Diane Figure Skating as a Hobby. Harpers,
New York, 1938.

Dench, R. and Stewart, R. Pair Skating and Dancing on
lee. Prentice Hall, New York, 1943.

(Continued on page 606)

RECREATION

.__-.—_—-A

Minimum Scenery: a Brief Discussion

INIMUM SCENERY, variously
M called “cut-down,” “simpli-
lied,” or “skeleton” scenery,
was developed in the amateur theatre
as a means of providing an inexpensive setting
which would be an artistic expression of the spe-
cific play for which it was designed. It is thus a
distinct advance over the practice of using a stock
set painted a neutral tone which is slightly rear-
ranged to suit the requirements of different plays.
The idea has been so successful that it has been
used for Broadway productions of multi-set plays.
In fact minimum scenery may be used in situations
where the economy provided is of secondary con—
sideration. A play with a large number of settings
can lose in dramatic effectiveness if the audience is
presented with a succession of elaborate settings,
each of which requires detailed examination before
resuming the thread of the play.

The basic principle of minimum scenery is selec-
tion carried out in a rigorous fashion. The scene
designer will start with an image of the scene as it
might be in real life but from this he will select
for his setting only those natural or architectural
elements which are essential to the physical action
and meaning of the play. In an exterior he will
eliminate the background of sky, hills, trees, and
buildings. He will use a wall, a lamp post, a fence,
a bench, a hedge, a mound of earth or rocks. He
will use whatever element or combination of ele—
ments is needed to clearly express the scene in its'
relation to the particular play. He will eliminate
all else, not even bothering to try to suggest it.
In an interior he will use
only the doors, windows,

By ROGER BOYLE

Instructor in Dramafic Ari
Universi‘iy of Virginia

 

area. This is of special significance
because here is one of the most ef-
fective applications of the principles
of minimum scenery. Doors and
windows will be placed in flats somewhat wider
than the door or window frame itself and of a
height to suggest the height of the room; seven or
eight feet for the normal room, higher if you want
the effect of a high ceiling. Now the walls between
the windows and doors, in fact the rest of the walls
of the set need be only about three feet high. These.
walls can be eliminated entirely or reduced down
to nothing more than a base-board, although the
three-foot wall gives a better sense of enclosure.
If you have a high piece of furniture or an archi-
tectural element such as a fireplace against the wall
at any point, the wall should be higher there. It
can be as high as your window and door flats or
it can be merely five or six inches higher than the
object, depending on the‘general arrangement and
balance of the set. If_ you have never seen an
interior setting of this type, you may feel from
the description that it would look very odd indeed.
I can assure you that it has been done hundreds of
times and that the result is very effective.

It is_possible, of course, simply to use flats of
seven or eight feet throughout the setting. Such
flats are cheaper and easier to handle than ten or
twelve-foot ones and simplify your problems to
this extent. However, the effect is that of a low
ceiling, since actually less height is suggested than
with the irregular walls suggested above. Further-
more, you will feel the need of backings and per-
haps more architectural
elements to break up the

fireplaces, or other archi-
tectural features actually
demanded by the play. He
will cut out the ceiling; all
backings, except possibly
for a window where the
view through it is impor—
tant and must be repre-
sented on the backing; all
furniture not involved in
the action; and he will
eliminate or greatly reduce
certain portions of the wall

FEBRUARY 1946

Ways fo cu’r fhe cosf of mounfing a play
wifhouf af fhe same fime lowering fhe sfand-
ard of fhe produc’rion are worfh ’rheir weighf
in gold fo fhe drama supervisor or direcfor.
One such way. worked ouf in fhe experimenfal
’rheafers of fhe coun’rryl is fhe use of "mini-
mum" scenery. An aufhorify on rhe subiecf of
fhis fechnique in scene design, Roger Boyle
of fhe faculfy of fhe Universi’ry of Virginia.
discussed ifs use in fhe December I945 issue
of fhe Virginia Drama News, one of fhe
publicafions of fhe Exfension Division of fhe
Universify of Virginia. The an‘icle is re-
prinfed in RECREATION by permission.

 

wall space. You are likely
to end up with a regular
non-minimum set which is
simply not as high as it
ought to be.

Having selected the ele-
ments- of the scene to be
represented in the setting,
the designer’s problem is
to make these as expres-
sive of the particular play
as possible. If the play is

(Continued on page 609)

593

The Children Write a Play

HE SETTLEMENT had for many years conducted
Ta Children’s Theater as part of its total dra-

matic program. Early one fall, a group of boys
and girls ranging from eight to thirteen years of
age gathered in an unusually large meeting room.
Many of them expected that once again they would
present formal plays “on the stage.” The leader
explained, “We are going to make up our own
plays. If we make them interesting and enjoyable,
we can invite an audience to watch them here in
our meeting room. Everyone will have a chance
to take part. We will not have to be concerned
about getting our play ready on time. We can
work as slowly as we want and present the show
when it is worth seeing.”

The children could not accept this method of
work easily, for it was too “different.” It took
several sessions of talking this concept through,
and beginning their “pretend” games, before their
doubts and problems began to clear up. Gradually,
enthusiasm for “something new” began to grow.
The children who were to become the backbone of
the group seemed to be eager from the beginning.

They tended to come to the group meetings with .

an appreciable degree of regularity. The attend-
ance of the other children varied considerably
during the season, and group activities were ad—
justed by the leader in accordance with the number
present at each meeting.

Learning to Play a Role

A Situation. “’ork was begun with “the pre-
tend game.” The boys and girls drew slips of paper
on which were written situations, such as: “Pre-
tend that you are a mother shopping with your lit-
tle girl in a big department store. Your child gets
lost. What do you do?” The youngsters in the
group would consult with one another before pre-
senting their improvisations.

Naturally, their ingenuity and imagination varied
greatly. During the enactment of the scene, the
leader and the non-participating children offered
encouraging suggestions when the pauses proved
too long. The “audience” was frequently irrepres-
ceible in its remarks; it was hard for them to wait
until the actors were finished.

A' Characterization. Sometimes, the “pretend
game” called for emphasis on individual character-

594

ization rather than upon a situation. Such a prob—
lem might be: “Pretend that you are a little lame
boy whose friends ask him out to play, but he is
not sure whether he should go, so they don’t wait
for him. How do you think he would act and feel 3’"
The leader would ask questions to help the child
in formulating his thoughts, in creating a back-
ground for his characters, or in expressing the
feelings of the character he was portraying. The
questions might have been: “What is the lame
boy’s name? Where does _he live? Does his mother
want him to play or does she prefer that he remain
at homePAtlo you think she ‘babies’ him too much?
Does he like to play with the other little boys? Do
they wait for him to catch up with them when they
are playing together?” Often, the result of such a
discussion would be a narration rather than a
characterization. The child, once his imagination
was freed, would give the group a long and detailed
account of the lame boy without showing character
directly. Then the leader would explain that the
group wanted to see the boy himself. “Let him
think out loud, and talk to his friends and him-
self. Let us hear him. Don’t tell us, but show us.”

A Pantomime. At other times, the group did
simple things in pantomime like getting up in the
morning, brushing one’s teeth, washing, and eat—
ing. It was interesting that, in recalling these every-
day habits, many little actions were overlooked
when done entirely from sense memory. The audi-
ence would help the actor to develop his sense of
observation by pointing out what had been for-
gotten. 3.

Pressing-up. One day the leader brought a box
of assorted costumes to the meeting room. The
children rummaged through it, and, donning their
selections, made up a scene or characterization in-
spi red by the clothing.

The leader encouraged the children to draw on
their own resources and experiences for their im-
provisations. The tendency toward movie plots of
an adult nature was prevalent. Those who had
been in the Children’s Theater showed great en-
thusiasm for reenacting the plots of plays which
had been produced in other seasons. Dramatiza—
tions of favorite stories were worked out, too, al-
though the age level of the children’s selections
was. rathervlow. '

: RECREATION

THE CHILDREN WRITE A PLAY 595

Small Group Activity. At times, the leader would
tell a story, and ask the group to dramatize it.
These dramatizations were somewhat longer and
some stage direction from the leader was necessary
to regulate the confusing (albeit spirited) stage
movement.

Sometimes the kindergarten children were in-
vited to witness these performances, and their en—
thusiasm was most encouraging to the players.

Large Group Activity. One day when thirty chil-
dren came to the meeting, a street scene was en-
acted. Folding chairs were used to make houses,
with stores across the street. The children were
divided into family groups. Some of the fathers
owned the stores, others worked in them. Other
familiar neighborhood ligures were cast——the
policeman, the landlord, the public health nurse.
\Vhen the parts were set, all the children began
talking at once. The leader worked this out by
assigning numbers to each family group, and then
they were able to take turns. This large group im-
provisation was very enjoyable to the children,
and provided learning experiences in cooperation
and planning as well.

Constructing a Play

On days when only a few children came to the
meeting, the group would sit around a table and
talk about “how a play is made.” These sessions
marked the beginnings of creative writing. The
leader would ask what made a play move along.
The children concluded in simple language that a
play contained a number of steps which led up to
a high point. There it stopped and the characters

and the audience were not sure of what would.

happen next. Once the outcome was shown, the
steps led downward to the end. These discussions
led to consideration of the structure of familiar
plays and stories. Thus a sense of building scene
by scene was achieved.

By this time, a holiday was drawing near. The
leader told an original story, related to the holiday,
simply and briefly. The children added ideas of
their own, and the completed story was broken
down into scenes. The children improvised dia-
logue as they went along. Finding the right words
was not always easy, and the leader helped with
this in order to avoid repetitions. Gradually stage
action was added. Many different children would
play each scene, and comparisons were drawn by
the group. In this way, all the children became
familiar with each step of the play. The result of

FEBRUARY 1946

The description of a method of program-build-
ing given here was prepared by Florence M.
Rosenblum from a report by Esther M. Nighbert.
It is reprinted from Program Aids, a quarterly

publication of the National Jewish Welfare
Board and is used in RECREATION by permission.

this was that when dialogue seemed to lag, some
other character could pick it up. The play was
presented as part of the Settlement’s holiday party.
Since the dialogue had never been written down,
there was occasionally some forgetting, and it was
not easy for the children to improvise under the
tension of an actual performance. This was the
group’s hrst experience with putting the new
method of work on the stage, and for this reason,
it was an important learning experience.

The value of the approach showed itself again
when the formal dramatic group was producing
Aladdin. The children of the informal group were
asked to be the mob scene. The children impro-
vised' the entire story, and later on, began to accent
this particular scene. When the entire play was
produced, the spontaneity of the mob’s impro-
vised dialogue was quite refreshing.

The Real Thing

When about lifteen children were rather steady
in their attendance, the leader began work on the
large project for which she had been preparing
them. She brought to the meeting room several
pamphlets from the National Child Labor Com-
mittee,* and told a composite story based on ac-
counts of the actual experiences of migrant fami-
lies. The description of these pe0ple’s work, prob-
lems of living, of attending school, of traveling
about in an old jalopy, caught the imagination of
the listeners. As they began to act out the story,
they asked questions of fact which the leader
answered. She tried to help them see how the
migrants’ problems were similar to or differed from
the children’s own life situations. After several
dramatizations the group began to narrow its ac-
tivities to the story of one particular family. The
story was broken into scenes, and the scenes into
episodes, so that a delinite movement in the play
was outlined. All the children took turns playing
the different roles. Sometimes, instead of drama-
tizing their story, the group talked about the prob-

lems they were depicting. Rehearsals soon began
(Continued on page 610)

 

* Pamphlets could be used around any subject in which the leader
wanted to interest the children—the living conditions of Jew.
ish children or adults in Europe or Palestine, for example.

The Therapy of Play

wo HUNDRED years before the

Christian era in the land of

Egypt, temples raised to
Saturn saw the earliest experi-
ments, perhaps, in the use of recreational therapy
as a treatment for those illnesses which -— having
their seat in the “spirit” of men—were called
“Melancholies.” Nearly three centuries later Galen
spoke of the value of recreation to the mental and
physical health of mankind. The first swimming
pool was a Roman reservoir. In more modern
times Pinel used work-through-play as a health
treatment. In revolutionary America Dr. Ben-
jamin Rush emphasized the need to relax if the
strains induced by “normal” tensions were not to
create “abnormalities.” The idea of the therapy of
play in the treatment of diseases is not apt to dis-
prove the old adage testifying to man’s inability
to create new things.

Most of us take health—mental and physical—
for granted. We eat badly. We stand like over-
loaded ashtrays—shoulders humped, chest col-
lapsed, backs screwed into pretzels. We have in-
haled about a third of the oxygen we need for so
long that we get dizzy if we draw a few good deep
breaths. Too often we fall sick—of mind or of body.
Our bodies feel like Sbroken bed springs. Our minds
are void as an empty room.

None of this need be. The constitution a child
brings into the world is, more often than not, less
important than what he does with it. Observe how
many people with serious physical handicaps excel
in many ways. The deaf learn to play games. The
paralyzed have participated in recreation programs.
The armless and the legless have learned to take
a normal part in everyday living. Once I watched
the progress of a man who had lost his leg. One
day he was deeply depressed, bitter, wistful, hold-
ing on to a wire, balanced on one foot while he
tried to play “catch.” A
week later he was in a calis-
thenics class, doing squats
and lungcs and deep knee
bends with the best of them.
Class over, he danced a jig
—literally-—with both feet.
Before he left the hospital
he was square dancing.

596

By NINCIE CURRIER
University of Virginia Hospifal
Charloffesville, Virginia

Recreafional fherapy is nof a new fhing
under fhe sun. lfs roofs can be fraced
as far afield as Egyp’r and as far back as
200 years before fhe Chrisfian era. In Ia’r-
fer years, however. fhe fherapy of play has
been some’rimes overlooked by fhe medi-
cal profession. Play as a re-creafive proc-
ess is coming now info ifs own as Mrs.
Currier demonsfrafes [ou’r of her experience.

The healing process is implied
in the very word re—creation. Rec-
reation can give refreshment to
the mind and the spirit and the
body. Recreational therapy, prescribed by doctors
and conducted by leaders carefully trained in
values and processes, and possessing in no small
measure a share of the quality of leadership, pro-
vides an 'objective type of treatment for certain
kinds of illnesses. .

In an article for War Medicine, Major Shulack
cites three goals of recreational therapy: to arouse
interest, courage, and the reassertion of self-con—
iiclence; to exercise the mind and the body; to
overcome social disability. To these may be added
two others—the return to industrial usefulness and
the avoidance of physical and emotional deteriora—
tion. To gain these goals, all the varied forms of
recreation familiar on the playground or at the
recreation center can contribute.

Calisthenics and Play

Through calisthenics and play, patients gain in
physical and mental stability. These activities help
repair tissue, restore functions to joints, increase
the blood supply. At the same time they develop
concentration, coordination, c00peration and re-
sponsibility and give the patients a chance for
greater self-expression.

In a very real sense the essential characteristic

° of life is activity—no muscles, no motion; no mo-

tion, no emotion. Calisthenics and games are a
means of building back that essential characteris-
tic where it has atrophied through disuse or been
lopped off through accident or disease.

Sometimes a very miracle seems to be wrought
through the medium of play. There was, for in-
stance, a patient who had a serious mental dis—
turbance. He kept both hands close over his mouth,
“to keep the holiness in.”
One day it was suggested to
him that he walk the balance
beam. Nobody mentioned
his hands, but very soon his
arms were out shoulder high
as he balanced himself ih
his precarious passage. He

(Continued on page 604)

RECREATION

 

A

" 1

Courtesy Mrs. D. W. McNamara

 

WORLD AT PLAY

A SECTION of a backyard
in Altona, New York,
used as a sand area for
children to dig in during
warm weather, in winter is turned into a skating
rink. Late in the fall the area, which has a one
foot embankment of soil, is smoothed over prepara-
tory for spraying. The spraying is done by a hose
attached to a faucet in the kitchen sink.

Backyard Skating
Rink

A RADIO PROGRAM has
been sponsored and con-
ducted each Saturday‘
morning during the past
two years by the Recreation Department of Mobile,
Alabama, with the generous cooperation of Radio

Station WM OB. Children from the various Play-
grounds and Recreation Centers participate in a

Honors to a Radio
Program

thirty minute program. It has proven highly suc-
cessful and boasts of a listening audience three and
one-half points higher than programs generally
considered worthy of commercial sponsorship.
This program has given hundreds of children their
hrst experience over the radio. It has also kept the
people informed of public recreation services. '

FEBRUARY 1946

THE American Camping
Association announces
that its National Camping
Convention will be held
at the Hotel Statler, Boston, February 13—15,
1946. The theme of the meeting will be “The C on-
tribution of Camping to Social Progress.” Those
interested in attending the meeting may secure
further information by writing Roland Cobb, 468
Newberry Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

American Camping
Association to Meet

THE suggestion comes
from the Music Council
of America that in plan-
ning living memorials
thought should be given to providing buildings to
house a comnnmity’s music program. This might
be a music pavilion, a band shell or some similar
building. The Council will be glad to send to any-
one requesting it a brochure on Music Memorials
with plans for a number of types of shells and pa-
vilions, and suggestions for procedures a commu-L
nity may take to procure a memorial of this kind.
Requests should be addressed to Mr. Jay Kraus,
President. Music Council of America, 3633 S.
Racine, Chicago 9,;Irllinois.

Music Shells as
Living Memorials

597

598 WORLD AT PLAY

Recreation in Vermont—Last spring the bill
to continue the Recreation Advisory Committee
for the next two years was passed unanimously.
The service is to continue as a community war
service under the Council of Safety, with a bien—
nium appropriation of $12,000. Mrs. A. O. Brun—
gardt is State Director of Recreation with an ofiice
in the State House at Montpelier. Montpelier
voted a five cent tax for recreation and Brattle—
boro and Rutland each voted ten cents.

Oklahoma City’s New Areas -—- Oklahoma
City’s war memorial will take the form of a seven—
teen acre soft and hard ball field with stadium and
community center. Under the sponsorship of the
city’s service clubs, 2 5,000 has been raised by
public subscribers to buy the area.

Postwar,P1anning in Tulsa, Oklahoma—On
November 20, 1945 the citizens of Tulsa voted
$7,000,000 in negotiable five to twenty year bonds
as part of the postwar program. $300,000 of this
has been requested for parks which will be mod-
ernized. Many of the existing facilities which are
obsolete or worn out will be replaced. A few of
the improvements being considered are a new east
side swimming pool, boys’ camp site, the surfacing
of existing tennis courts with concrete and the
building of ten additional courts; open air dance
pavilion, the rebuilding of existing softball fields,
the construction of two additional lighted fields
and two junior baseball fields.

Dr. Philip Seman Retires—Dr. Philip L.
Seman, General Director of the Jewish People’s
Institute of Chicago for the past thirty-two years
has, retired to devote full time to writing and to
advisory activities in the field of social service and
leisure time. Recreation workers know Dr. Seman
best as Chairman of the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission, an appointment he received in 1934 when
the commission was established.

A Tribute to Joe E. Brown-“- December 7,
1945 was Joe E. Brown Day in Toledo, Ohio, and
from morning till night, the famous comedian was
feted by many organizations in his native city who
came together to honor him as an actor, sports-
man, author and a great American. More than
sixteen honors and awards were presented to Mr.
Brown during the day which started in the morn—
ing with the University of Toledo awarding him
an honorary degree of Master of Arts.

Tribute was paid to the war work done by Mr.

Brown in traveling more than 200,000 miles to en-
tertain troops.

As a boy, Joe E. Brown was a member of the
Toledo Boys’ Club, one of the organizations which
gave him an award. In his general Speech of ac—
ceptance Mr. Brown referred to the fine work of
the club. He said that in his opinion there is no
such thing as juvenile delinquency but that there
is parental delinquency. This he followed up by
saying, “I want to plead for more playgrounds,
more places to play under decent supervision.”

Same Old Problem—Good Pictures !——The
Union County, New Jersey Park System in pre-
paring to publish its twenty-fifth report which
will appear in 1946 has sent out a call for any good
photographs taken in the Union County parks. In
particular, it is pointed out in Our Parks, the need
is for action shots of any sport, landscapes in any
park, picnicking scenes and scenes showing wild
flowers in bloom, interior views of the trailside
museum, and pictures showing the deer on watch
on reservation. Payment will be made for any
glossy print chosen.

It will be interesting to know the results of this
appeal to Union County amateur photographers.

In One Small Community—“Hanford, Cali-
fornia, under the sponsorship of the Hanford
Youth Council has taken steps toput on a cam—
paign for an adequate program of recreation and
an increase has been secured in the city budget for
the year—round program. A full time director has
been secured and supervision of the two city parks
has been turned over to the department of recre—
ation appointed by resolution and composed of two
councilmen and three citizens.

Los Angeles Youth Has a Large Share—
The Recreation Department of Los Angeles is con-
ducting a total of 779 teen-age group meetings reg-
ularly at the playgrounds, according to a recently
completed survey. Of these, approximately one—
third are boys, one-third girls and the rest co—
recreation groups for both boys and girls. In addi-
tion to the municipally-sponsored youth clubs,
hundreds of other youth clubs sponsored by pri—
vate youth agencies make use of the city’s play—
grounds. A study showed a total of 31,180 young
people in organized clubs enjoying the city rec—
reation centers, with many more among the unor-
ganized users of playgrounds.

Teen'canteens are fiourishing at many of the
recreatiOn department centers, and athletics, social

RECREATION

 

» .W VOIT HIT

R»

r i’"

Ollicial size, weight, shape, balance. a o 0
Compression formed Japara Kapolc (enter. o

Scuff-proof, slip-proof, tough rubber cover 0

Gum wound-cable card yarn center. a o 0

Completely water and weather proof 0 o 0
Period day or night visibility. o o a o o .

7.  Unequolled durability on any playing surface

".1";

as.
 N“

the finest performance . ..
under all playing conditions
over the longest notion of time.

THE BEST DEALERS ARE VOlT DEALERS

MOO E. 25th Street, los Angeles 1| 0 180 No. Washer Drive, Chicago 6

FEBRUARY 1946

 

600 FALLS TO CHRISTIES

activity, hobbies, arts and crafts, music, dramatics
and many other forms of recreation are attracting
young people to the playground.

Little Rose Bowl ~— Youngsters, 250,000
strong, take part each year in a year—round sports
program in Los Angeles, California. Month suc-
ceeds month in a procession of touch football, bas—
ketball, softball and hardball, culminating in a
grand finale on Youth Day. On this day partici—
pants and spectators stream to what has come to
be known as the “Little Rose Bowl" whose high-
light is the competition by four teams in the junior
and senior touch football championships. Each
youngster who participates in these games receives
from the Los Angeles Junior Chamber of C011]-
nierce for his personal use in the coming year an
official rubber—covered Voit football, cherished
memento of a grand occasion in his life.

1946 Boy Scout Week—“Scouts of the World
—Build Together” is the theme of Boy Scout
\Veek to be held February 8—14, 1946. Among the
events planned are games and activities of an in—

ternational flavor, winter sports and hiking, demon-

strations of scouting, and appreciation dinners and
pot luck suppers at which returned servicemen will
be given recognition.

Further information about the week may be
secured from Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park
Avenue, New York City.

A New Community House for Augusta—A
new $17,000 Community House erected in May
Park, Augusta, Georgia, has been dedicated to the
city’s mayor. The building includes an assembly
room, office, kitchen, storage room, heater room,
rcst rooms and showers for boys and girls. It is
constructed of brick and tile. F rom—Neu's of Rec-
reation in Georgia, Georgia Recreation Association.

From President Truman—President Truman
in a brief radio address on October 2, 1,945, spoke
of recreation as one of the agencies that helps de-
termine the quality of living in the community,
indicating that he considered this and other such

services something from which everyone in the

community benefits.

Falls to Christies

(Continued from page 587)

lege park and down over Dewey’s hills where the
school divides into small groups according to size

and ability. Class instruction lasts about an hour
and a half and we ski back home for lunch. After
lunch there is an hour’s siesta horizontally on
bunks in the bunk rooms. This means everyone,
including the instructors.

The rest period, over, we go out for a ski hike ’
and home early to skate or play in the Ski Hut.
Dinner is served at live-thirty which leaves us a
long evening for ski movies in the Ski Hut, first
aid lessons and tall stories.

The program for the second day follows the first
with the youngsters skiing as much as they want.
On the third day the School goes off “011 loca-
tion” to a Dartmouth Outing Club cabin where we
cook lunch and, if weather permits, come home
with a farmer who calls for us and drives us back
to the Inn in a pung.

The third day we start practicing slalom running
for the races. This is a controlled race and makes
the youngsters use the turns they have learned.
There are a few races that afternoon and “stunt
night” that night. Everyone presents some sort of
entertainment either alone or with two or three
others. Jokes, tricks, short plays, songs and cha-
rades are appreciated by the audience.

The fourth day races are held for everyone ac—
cording to their proficiency. The relay teams are a
mixture of beginning and advanced skiers and pro—-
vide a very exciting finale. At the skiers’ banquet
the last day of the Ski School, prizes for all events
are awarded and the School pins are presented.
The final morning is purposely left free so that the
youngsters can enjoy skiing for pure fun. The
instructors are on the hill and will help individuals
but there are no formal classes. Afternoon trains
from \Vhite River Junction return the children to
either Boston or New York early in the evening.

Eating and Sleeping Arrangements

Meals are carefully planned with emphasis on
green vegetables, fruit and milk. The entire school
sits together at large tables and the ski—schoolers
have always been enthusiastic about the food.

The two top floors of the Inn are turned over to
the School and the ski instructors sleep in the bunk
rooms acting as counselors. The “skiing” trained
nurse, ski teachers, counselors, and director take
personal charge of all the children.

The Inn is comfortable, warm and safe for the
youngsters. The main building is protected by a
Grinnel sprinkler system and the wing is fireproof
construction. Ski School fire drills are part of the

RECREATION

 

LIFE. ..
VALUE!

‘A' * * In playground equipment
you demand . . . and have a right to
demand . . . durability, safety, long
service. It is reasonable that only high-
est quality equipment will give you
these vital features.

American APPROVED
playground equipment

meets every one of your requirements.
Modern design . . . highest grade
materials . . . unexceIIed workmanship

. . these are your safeguards against
early replacement when you install
American Approved.

WRITE TODAY

for illustrated descrip-
tive material. See why American has
led the way for more than 30 years.

  

A M E R I c A N
flaggzound 13905“? Co.

ANDERSON, INDIANA

World’s Largest Exclusive Manufacturers of Fine Outdoor
Playground,.Swimming Pool and Physical Fitness Equipment

FEBRUARY 1946 (301

602 BRITAIN’S I’OSTWAR PLA YGROUNDS

tradition and seem to addto the excitement of
coming to Ski School.

Skiing, like horseback riding or bicycling, can
easily involve accidents. Every care is taken not to
let youngsters try anything beyond their capabili-
ties, but a sprain or a pulled ligament usually oc-
curs during the Ski School period. The hurt
youngster is immobilized on a first aid toboggan,
covered with blankets, and taken to the Hitchcock
Hospital Clinic where the injury is diagnosed and
usually X—rayed and the hospital charge is for-
warded direct to the parents. The percentage of
injury is about one to thirty children, and in eight
years there has been only one broken ankle.

Speaking of Equipment

” N THE SPRING we installed some play equipment

for the children other than the standard swings
and slides. An old live-passenger Ford, with the
top down, which we painted in bright colors and
placed in concrete so it couldn’t be moved, was put
on one of the playgrounds.

“We certainly found that it was used all sum—
mer long—many times we would find twenty or
twenty-five children in it. One day I saw a little
boy no more than five or six years old, sitting
behind the wheel with his mother sitting beside
him. I didn’t inquire where they were going, but
I’m sure it must have been quite a tour from
the expression on their faces!

“Later on in the summer we were able to pur-
chase six airplanes from the Army depot for $50.00
apiece. They were not to be put in use, for as you
know, there was a cut in plane production about
that time. These were put on the playgrounds.
The afternoon the-first one was installed it was
literally a beehive of children—they were all over
it. I spoke about the crowd on the plane to the
director and she said, ‘You’d better come on over
and look inside.’ You’ve heard the old saying
‘packed in like sardines.’ That’s how they were
inside of the plane. There were Paratroop Jump—
ers, Pilots, Gunners, _ Navigators, Bombardiers.
everything. ‘

“The planes also drew quite a few souvenir hunt-
ers. we had a time explaining that they had not
been in battle; that they were simply frames that
were not going to be used. On one playground the
souvenir hunters really demolished the plane, but
that all went in the summer fun and I think the
labor of putting them up and the small amount of
money involved was morethanr repaid byrthe fun

and happiness they brought to the children who
played on them.”—-From Minnie Wagner, Super-
intendent of Recreation, Memphis, Tennessee.

 

 

Britain's Postwar
Playgrounds

near BRITAIN is much concerned about its
6 postwar parks and playgrounds, according
to the mid-February 1945 issue of the Ontario
Parks Association Bulletin

For several years England and \Vales have had
3 Standing Committee on National Parks. In 1942
a collateral council for Scotland was established,
and now no fewer than thirty-three societies, each
concerned in one way or another with the promo-
tion of outdoor life and the preservation of areas
for recreation, are represented on the council.

The general objective of the national parks
movement in Great Britain is first, that a sufhcient
number of extensive areas carefully selected from
the unspoiled, wilder country shall be strictly pre-
served and specifically run as national parks; and
secondly, that the remainder of this virgin country
shall be regarded as a reserve for further parks in
the future and any other developments of other
kinds in these regions shall be allowed only_if they
are essential to the public interest.

Great Britain has a strictly limited amount of
unspoiled wild country, and there have been many
encroachments upon it. Nevertheless, the coun-
try’s total area of approximately 100,000 square
miles includes nearly 30,000 square miles of moun—
tain, moorland, hill pasture, forest, heath, down—
land and rugged coast line. Omitting small iso-

- lated regions unsuitable for the purpose, nearly

one quarter of the whole country has possibilities
for national parks projects.

Britain’s national parks now under considera-
tion are not to be confused with her national for-
estry parks, although some of the latter do serve
in the former capacity to a limited degree. A na-
tional forestry park, as conceived by the British
authorities. is an extensive forestry commission
property primarily established and run for forestry

purposes but to which public access is allowed and
even encouraged.

Such areas, however, are not substitutes for na-
tional parks. The broad "purpose of the national
parks plan is to organize the preservation and de-
velopment of the projected playgrounds on a na-

tional basis. Though a great deal has been done to
preserve J‘beautiful Britain” by voluntary and

RECREATION

702 77W. Sm Padded am! TOUCHDHWNS . . .

intark
CONFORMS TO NATIONAL
INTERCOLLEGIATE TEMPLATE

      

‘ O

The BALL . . . .
Easier To Handle

‘

Its perfect shape, sure gripping qualities,
weight, balance and performance has won the
confidence of outstanding players. Coaches,

too, recognize the advantage of economy and

durability in its extra long life, perfect shape
and ruggedness.

WINTARK Footballs, Basketballs, Soccer-

balls and Volleyballs are fabric-lined, COR-
DURA“ Wound. They will not stretch—are

scuff proof, moisture proof and have many
patented features.

Original Pioneers

The WEAVER Scholastic Playball and the
WINTARK Rubber Covered, Cord Wound
Basketball were the FIRST balls of this type
introduced and successfully used.

Winrark Policy Wins for Dealers
BEST by TEST

United State; Tc.:ting Co. Inc.

Write for latest Catalog

WINTARK FEATURES - '

a i ‘ .
Cordura“ wound. Nine layers of materials  u '- -
which produce proper action—preserve uni-  s A LE 5 (:0 M pA N Y
form shape—provide surer grip. This rugged
construction also makes WINTARK Basket-

balls moisture-proof. washable and abrasion

resistant.
*Reg. trademark of DuPont Co.

f?! N

 
    
  

  
  

 I mmgcm roman armmc mmmmr  
 - 4216 W.OGDEN AVENUE ' CHICAGO 23, Ill. '

 "Her-H!

a
0 . c u - a.

 

604 THE THERAPY OF PLAY

local organizations, it is considered that the pro-
vision of effective national parks must be a na-
tional concern supported financially by the gov-
ernment. Areas already preserved by voluntary
enterprise would form a satisfactory basis for these
government-financed parks.

The case for the establishing of these play-
grounds on a national basis has been well put by a
writer who declared:

“No revolutionary measures are necessary; the
foundations are already laidcand the edifice can be
built, The communal spirit which the war has
fostered in Great Britain should not be allowed to
die. The natural beauties of Britain should be
shared by the community.”

The inclusion of these play areas in the plans
for a better Britain is a fitting tribute to the
Empire unity which war has cemented, and the
eventual implementing of these ideas in the mother
country will serve as a memorial to that unity.

 

 

The Therapy of Play

(Continued from page 596)
walked the beam sixteen times, then went on to

shoot five basketball goals before he remembered
about the holiness left unguarded. This was the
beginning of a return to a normal way of thinking.

Music, Dancing, Dramatics

What muscular activity is to motion, the arts of
music, drama, the dance are to emotion. Music
speaks its own language. Dancing develops im-
portant values through its patterns of rhythmic
motion, its gaiety and companionship. Dramatics
takes the participant out of himself, gives him the
chance to work off tensions and pent up emotions.
The individual loses himself in the fictitious situa-
tion with which he is identified and experiences
the catharsis of his emotions that “the play"
brings.

All these are healing activities for the mind over-
burdened with real or imagined problems. Bands
and glee clubs, symphony hours, whistling or har-
monica “bees ;” ballroom and tap, country and
square dancing; puppets and marionettes and
charades. and short plays have all a part to play in
helping the mind groping in darkness to find its
way back to a more normal luminence.

Gardening
The “good earth” has its own healing proper-
ties, and gardening takes a place high on the list
of restoratives in this therapy of recreation. It is
not always easy, however, to provide a garden fOr

hospitalized patients. At one hospital ingenuity
has found a way to bring the fields indoors. A part
of the play roof furnishes the garden plot. Old
wine barrels are the plant beds. A spigot and hose
have been installed by the hospital shop. Plants
come from a near-by greenhouse.

Small Games

The desire to fill an empty Space with the right
piece of a puzzle has sometimes been the first in—
dication of returning interest in the everyday
world, for the act is apt to lead to further interest
that requires concentration and brings its own sat-
isfaction. The ability to face and solve weightier
problems may follow naturally. Checkers and chess.
acey-doosey and backgammon and parchesi and
dominoes.and such paper games as battleship fill a
need in the returning life of convalescence. Some-
times the timid hand needs to be guided at first by
someone else in its groping among the chessmen
or the puzzle pieces. But it is not long, once the
initial step has been taken, before that help is not
needed any more.

Parties and Outings

High days and holidays are peculiarly welcome
in a hospital. They fill an important recreative
function because they bring warmth and friendli—
ness where they are often sorely needed, a feeling
of belonging to the mind so lately isolated by its
own suffering, a diversion from the routine of days
too much like one another.

Parties are gala affairs—looked forward to,
planned for, gossiped about for days in advance.
Outings for sightseeing, for community concerts or
dramatic performances of “local origin” bring the
convalescent into vivid and positive contact with
the world outside the hospital’s walls. Movie nights
are always greeted with enthusiasm if the films to
be shown have been carefully chosen.

All these things help the patient learn to carry
his load in the best possible way. They have
proved themselves many times as. aids to the re-
orientation of mind and body which is the process
of recovery. They are not panaceas. But neither
are they “flash-in-the-pan" experiments that can
he laughed off as the maunderings of a crackpot.

Like radio, it “seems recreational therapy is here
to stay.”

Your Library Gives You Away

(Continued from page 572)
The librarian remembers that in the depression

books on economics were particularly desired.

RECREATION

YOUR LIBRARY GIVES YOU AWAY 605-

.57;- ‘ .-1_  

x For the “LAST WORD" in

equipment for a modern game

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN S-PORTS‘

During the depression, too, more people read. for
with increasing unemployment more and more
peOple spent their time in reading. During this
period fiction led all other types of books.

The first World War produced few books in
comparison with the number of novels and non-
fiction coming out of the second World War.
There seem to be many fluent, articulate people
nowadays.

Since V—] Day books containing plans for
houses, giving their cost, describing the materials
needed and appropriate landscaping are most p0pu-
lar. Families who have been crowded into inade-
quate apartments and the small war housing proj-
ects are eager to .build their own one-family homes.
Books concerning returning servicemen, how to
treat them and how to help them make their ad-
justments are coming into the focus of public in-
terest. Books about the making of the peace and
world government are being more and more widely
read.

Manchester pe0ple are definitely in favor of a
"one world” which will squelch aggressors and do
away with the prospect of war. This town has
more than 100 gold stars on its honor roll. These
gold star families do not want another war.

FEBRUARY 1946

w-—_ .-

Ler’s all 6003!. the "szr a
Memoriafs The! Lwe” campaxgn
to commemorate our war berm-s.

  
  
           

EQUIPMENT

The Children Too

Besides reflecting the taste of the grown-ups in
your town, the library also reveals the interests of
the children. Children are picture-minded these
days. They don’t seem to care whether the text is
too old for them or not as long as a book has
pictures. But children still like a good story. The
standard ones are still read. Louisa May Alcott
and Kipling are high on the children’s list of
favorites, although the library does have enough
modern books as well.

Fighting stories, stories about the war, are
eagerly devoured by the children. Any book about
the Army, the Navy, or any of the services receives
a welcome from the children because they have
brothers in the service and hear conversations
about the war at home. Children frequently re-
fiect in their reading the tastes of their parents.
All of them are interested in mystery stories which
are also popular with adults.

Manchester children show a great deal of inter-
est in nature stories. They like to read about trees
and birds, wild animals and domestic ones. Career
books are popular with the older youngsters. They
like to read about nurses and other professionals.
They 'also‘like to read'books that tell them how to

006 LIBRARY MOVIES

   

DIAMOND PITCHING SHOES

Many models of Diamond Official Pitching
Shoes offer fans a wide selection. Drop-

forged from high grade steel—will not chip
or break. Carefully balanced.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and

Official Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK

HORSESHOE CO.

46l0 Grand Ave.. Duluth. Minn.

 
  
 
 

make things. Although for a time the movies and

the funny books challenged the popularity of other
books, the children always seem to come back for

a good story.
The library in your town, as well as in the town
of Manchester is more than merely another house

in town, for, being a house for books, it is the home
of your living interests and the living interests of

your neighbors.

Fun on Skates
(Continued from page 592)

Henie, Sonja Wings on My Feet. Prentice Hall, New
York, 1940.

Ice Dances U. S. Figure Skating Association, Boston,
1940.

Putnam and Parkinson Skating.
York, 1939.

Vinson, Maribel Primer of Figure Skating. McGraw-
Hill, New York, 1938.

Vinson, Maribel Advanced Figure Skating. McGraw—
Hill, New York, 1940.

A. S. Barnes, New

 
 
 
 

Minneapolis—Winter Wonderland

(Continued from page 590)

four different age divisions in both boys’ and girls'
classes to give every boy and girl a chance to com-
pete against skaters or skiers of his own age level
and ability. These divisions are: Midget division
—thirteen years and under; Junior division—fif-
teen years and under; Intermediate division—sev-
enteen years and under; and Senior division—-
eighteen years and over.

The Recreation Department of the Park Board
plans to add more recreation facilities in the win-
ter sports season of 1946—47 when additional
money which was allotted to the Park Recreation
Department by the last session of the Minnesota
State Legislature becomes available.

 

 

Library Movies

0138 YOUR PUBLIC LIBRARY give free showings
D of documentary films?

The Montclair, N. J., Library is a very small
film outlet yet its steady showing of films in its
small auditorum (twenty seats) has given it a
reputation in town for strong film interest. It is
called upon for advice as well as for the showing
of Films by groups wishing to come to the Library
to see them, and for the loan of Library-owned
films for showings elsewhere.

During the first five months of this year, sixty
film programs at the Library showed thirty-two
different films to 884 persons. Since several of the
programs carried more than one film to the same
audience, the total viewings numbered 1,1 11.

Children far outnumbered adults in these audi-
ences. The most regular programs were those
given particularly for children on Saturday morn-
ings. One nursery school for colored children came
to the Library a number of times to see films, and
other school groups and Scout Cub groups also
asked for programs. For this reason films of
especial interest to children were prominent among
those purchased and among those borrowed or
rented. “Three Little Bruins” and “Homelife of
the Hummingbird” were the Library-owned Films
most popular with the youngest age group.

'The older children, who came to Saturday morn-
ing showings by themselves rather than with the
escorted organized groups of Cubs or school
classes, preferred war films to any others, but
were shown, and enjoyed, many educational films,

RECREATION

LIBRARY MOVIES 607

-avenger00030300300aaaaraaaaaoaraaaoas

nor-mom: ‘

INC.

BOYS CLUBS e
CHURCHES 0

CITY RECREATION

ond USO clubs went wild over the game!

 

' e 114 EAST 32nd STREET 0
q

  

 

SERVICE CENTERS

all over the country ore adopting this new way of bowllng that
requires no pinsboys but is played and scored the some or:
regulation howling. Our Service men and women in camps

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY H

TWO-WAY BOWLING GURPUIIATIIIN

Telephone LExing-ton 2-8828 0

Y.M.C.A's and Y.W.C.A's «- SCHOOLS
o ERATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORPORATION
“4 East 32nd Street. New York

Gentlemen: We are interested in your new
Two-Way Bowling Alley. Please send us addi-

ti onal information and literature describing alley.

Name .............................  .............................. ..

Addreu ........................................................... ..
City .......................................... .. State .............. ..

 

00aaaareararrrarrrrrrrraaraa000001

NEW YORK. N. Y. o

oeeoeeeeeeeeeeeeara0403390400ataaaaaga

t

especially those picturing foreign lands. “Target
for Tonight” and “Desert Victory,” both Library—
owned, were asked for repeatedly by the older
boys, Saturday after Saturday Films borrowed
or rented for this group included “Life Line of a
Nation,” “Swim and Live,” “Fortress of the Sky,”
“Tank Destroyers,” the “Burning of the Books.”
Other films, chiefly introductions to foreign lands,
which the intermediate children saw, included
“Children of China,” “Men of the Maquis,” “Along
the Great Silk Route,” “W'ealth of the Andes,”
“Alaska Highway,” and many similar pictures.
The Library showings for adults were for the
most part war films or Red Cross films shown to
Red Cross workers as part of their training in first
aid or nutrition. Some adults came to the show-
ings of foreign films, especially for two on France.

FEBRUARY 1946

These films (except those for Red Cross, Cubs,
or other special closed groups) were announced
the Thursday before showing in the local weekly
newspaper. A sign was often posted on a Library
bulletin board giving the announcements. When a
showing was about to start a library attendant
often asked any “public” who were in the build-
ing whether they cared to go down to the audi-
torium for a showing. Those who had time——
especially the leisured elderly—often did.

During this particular period no army training
films were shown to soldiers, nor were any films
with industrial or personnel bearing shown for
business or industry groups, though such showings
were among those arranged during earlier periods.

There was no charge to the audience, of course,
for any of these showings. The Library’s book

A First Sign of Spring
1946 YEARBOOK

dealing with the

Status and Function of Supervision

The Association for Supervision and Curriculum
Development 1946 Yearbook, Leadership Through
Supervision, comes from the press this spring. This
hook presents a hroad picture of supervisory duties
and their relationship to the total school program
and the community.

Various chapters of the Yearbook are written by
leaders in education under the co-editorship of Lelia
Ann Taggart, director of education in Santa Barbara
County, California; and Fred T. Wilhelms, assistant
director of the Consumer Education Study of the
National Association of Secondary School Principals,
NBA.

The Yearbook is receivedmutomatically by ASCD
members as a part of their membership. Non-mem-
bers may purchase the volume for $2.

Association for Supervision and

Cnrricnlmn' Development, NEA

1201 16111 STREET, N. W.

WASHINGTON 6, D. C.

 

fund, and other non-tax special funds, served to
cover the rental, purchase, and shipping costs——
which were minimum—Dorothy Waugh, Mont-
clair, N. J., Library.

Nothing New Under
the Sun!

"As A SELF-EXPRESSIVE movement the young
people of the Philadelphia Slow Club have
developed faster in self-managed groups than with
directed clubs. It is curious, however, to note that
the young people have never attempted to exclude
older pe0ple from their meetings and most of their
dances and hikes have had invited chaperones.

“The organization meetings and rallies of these
chapters have been enthusiastic affairs and over
70,000 young people of all ages have attended them
and listened attentively to the ideals of saner living
presented, not by lectures, but by young speakers
and people with a youthful point of view.

“They have played games at their meetings and.

NOTHING NEW UNDER THE SUN!

have had song-tests but they are better when they
are led by the young people themselves. In fact,
‘the city-wide executive committee of young lead-
ers has deveIOped song leaders’ and play leaders’
institutes themselves in order to teach those of
their own number who are showing leadership

qualifications.

“Now, there will be many directors of social
agencies who will ask, ‘Why doesn’t this happen
naturally with the young pe0ple in our clubs?’ The
answer is, ‘It will if you study their point of view
and relegate your leadership to the background
where it belongs.’ '

“We are rapidly learning that the Slow Clubs '

cannot flourish on sociability alone. The dancers
drop by the wayside. A ‘date’ breaks the continuity
of their attendance whereas if there is an inter-
esting program on hand at the Slow Club they
take their ‘dates’ along to the meetings.

“At the present time the movement is entering
a new phase with the development of special
groups interested in particular activities. For in-
stance, there is an Art and Sketching Chapter
composed of hfty members especially interested in
the study of art. They meet at the Graphic Sketch
Club where they are provided free instruction in
free-hand drawing and also lectures on art and
frequent trips through the art galleries of the city.

“A Talent Chapter has organized in a library
clubroom for the special study of poetry. Each
member brings his or her own verse to read and
to be discussed by all those present around a table.
They have issued a n’tirneograph volume of their
poetry and are now conducting a prize contest for
the best original poem read at the meetings.

“Then there is an intermediate chapter, for
older young people between the ages of twenty-
hve and thirty-five. The average age of the Slow
Club membership is around twenty years and the
older ones feel out of place in these younger groups.
The older people have also swung into line with a

Social Club for Older People, which has held old-
fashioned dances with much success.

“Perhaps the most curious group, from a social
standpoint, is the Tall Chapter which meets weekly
at the North Building Y.M.C.A. This is com-
posed of young people of unusual height who feel
shy when dancing with shorter partners. To the
astonishment of everyone the ‘Tall Ones’ turned

RECREATION

I

—.-.— — '

MINIMUM SCENERY: A BRIEF DISCUSSION 609

out four hundred strong and they are now one of
the most thriving chapters in the group.

“Then there is a special dramatic and literary
section, an informal group meeting at a women’s
club in which everyone takes part in the program.
Under the tactful leadership of an experienced
elocutionist everyone comes to the meeting with a
short ‘stunt’ which is received with much appreci—
ation, entertainment and amusement.

“Another interesting phase of this movement is
the number of original plays written by the mem—
bers and produced entirely by them. It is the spirit
of the movement to do things in double-quick time.
A play written one week will be produced at the
next meeting with the audience roaring at the
mistakes made by the young actors. The dramatic
groups usually start off with a miustrel show, then
a brisk musical revue and finally a more serious
sketch or play.”

These are extracts from an article entitled,
“Slow Clubs—A New-Old Idea for Recreation”
by George F. Kearney which appeared in the May
1927 issue of The Playground, now RECREATION.

VVhat’s new about youth centers?

Minimum Scenery: a Brief Discussion

(Continued from page 593)

realistic in style, the doors, windows, or garden
walls should be life—like in general effect. A flimsy
cardboard door may be a trifle less inappropriate
when minimum scenery is involved but there is'
nothing to keep you from making it as solid and
substantial as it would be in reality. In the case .of
a fantasy or romantic play, the elements of the
setting should be frankly unrealistic and in keep—
ing with the spirit of the play. The period of the
play should be expressed in architectural detail.
Most important, the mood should be conveyed:
light and warm tones for comedy; darker and
colder tones for tragedy. The principles of design
are the same as for regular settings. The only dif-
ference is that you can use somewhat brighter
colors since the areas to be painted are usually
smaller and the actor’s face is seldom seen against
the background of the setting itself.

But what keeps the audience from seeing back—
stage, if the setting is kept at a minimum? It is not
too serious if they do. Hiding the backstage areas
is one of the lesser functions of scenery. However,
the usual practice is to hang draperies at back and

FEBRUARY 1946

  
   
    
 

SPORT 
EQUIPMENT

6/100“ RAWLINGS
W ATHLETIC GOODS

404 8% 3pm!

Available from

MANUFACIURINE 80.
$1 lOUIs - MISSOURI

sides, just beyond the setting. This may be in the
form of a cyclorama surrounding the setting on
three sides, or it may be in the form of a backdrop
with wings. The latter is preferable as it facilitates
the masking of entrances at the sides and the
draperies are less in the way on scene shifts, but it
requires a bit more material and more off—stage
space at the sides. If the cyclorama form is used,
slits in the center of the back curtain and the two
sides should be provided, with plenty of overlap.
The best color is dead black but others will serve.
The darker and more neutral the tone, the better.
An early attempt at reducing the amount of
paint and canvas required for amateur scenery was
the use of drapery settings. Door and window
frames were placed in openings in the curtains and
a very inexpensive setting resulted. Such settings
were never very satisfactory. The audience was
generally willing to accept the convention of cur-
tains representing walls (although it was discon-
certing when we hung pictures on them to break
up the monotony of the drapery), but it was awk-
ward to drape the curtains around the door and
window frames and we had to use the same drapes
for different plays. The use of drapes with modern

    

610

. gact [ram [At War
THE NlSSEN

TRAMPOLINE

puts the popular gym and playground sport of
TRAMPOLINING back in “civvies”

O Trained and conditioned wartime

thousands .

0 Now readyr for pcacetime’s phys. ed.
and playground millions . . .

O A sound, scientific sport with a
lively-action appeal.

Write for Free Literature

GRISWOLD & NISSEN

P. O. Box 376 Cedar Rapids. Iowa

minimum scenery seems somewhat similar but it
is entirely different in principle. We do not use
the drapes to represent anything else, not even
the sky. Nor do they define the acting area; this
is done by the minimum setting itself. The func-
tion of the curtains .is to act as a barrier to sight
and to form a neutral background for the actor’s
face. Incidentally they serve to keep unwanted
light from being reflected back onto the setting,
when we have a dark scene or want to light up
only a part of the stage. It is for these reasons that
the curtains are preferably black. We think of
black as having a somber mood value, but when a
colored object is placed in front of it we naturally
attend to that, and the black area, no matter of
what size, has no psychological effect. The drapes
may touch the setting at a point or two where they
have been pulled over to mask an entrance but they
should never seem a part of it. Their normal posi-
tion is several feet back of it.

In most exterior scenes the sky itself is unim-
portant and will not be represented but when it is
significant, as iii the case of storms and sunsets,
the back drape will be omitted or simply opened to
disclose a conventional sky cyclorama or painted
backdrop. This should be as far back as possible
and lighted separately from the foreground.

A properly designed minimum setting does not
seem a makeshift. Its omissions in representation
are deliberate and not merely haphazard or ex-
pedient, as is the case with so many amateur set-
tings. The significance of the setting to the par-
ticular play is clearly and forcefully expressed.
Minimum scenery bears the same relationship to
the conventional full setting that the artist’s sketch
bears to a fully detailed painting. We will linger
over a painting ; the sketch creates its effect quickly

 

THE CHILDREN WRITE A PLAY

and simply. Minimum Scenery is thus particularly
suited to the one-act play and the multi-set long
play. For the long one-set play, it is to be pre—
ferred, I think, to the stock set or the drapery set.
In this case the selection of the esséntial elements
should not be quite as drastic, and the effort should
be made to secure large and varied acting areas.

H

The Children Wrife a Play

(Continued from page .595)

to follow a more formal procedure, in staging and
movement. Dialogue was still improvised, but it
very soon became necessary to “set” it. The chil-
dren came for an extra session to do this job. The
leader sat at the typewriter and the children dic-
tated to her. Everyone remembered the dialogue
as they went from scene to scene. The leader
changed little of the wording, merely helping them
to keep their phrases neat. \Vhen the script was
finally complete, it was followed in ensuing re-
hearsals. This did not seem to make the proced-
ure stereotyped; all the children knew all the lines,
and their spirit of improvisation continued.

The last scene was the most difficult to formu-
late. The play up to this point moved along as a
series of episodes depicting the life of the Jones
family, in-migrant workers. Its message was im—
plied rather than spoken. The last scene, however,
had to reach a climax. The leader discussed with
the children the meaning of the scenes they had
already completed. “Now we know these things
about the Joneses. . . . What do they mean to us,
to those who will see the play? \Vhat do they
mean to the Joneses P" The group decided that
there had to be some future for people like the
Jones family, and the opportunity to achieve the
things they wished for. Finally, it was decided to
have one of the Jones boys state simply the mes-
sage of the play—the opportunity for education
and growth for all.

The play was in rehearsal for almost four months
of Iii-weekly meetings. It was produced in the
room where the children always meet. Props and
scenery were simple, and the actors wore old
plain clothing. There was no curtain. A strip of
brown paper painted with strawberries, (the Jones
family was picking berries in the play) marked
the division between stage and audience. The
leader sat with the other spectators, and when the
actors paused or faltered, she made a suggestion

RECREATION

THE .S‘tlIOKING ROOM DISCUSSES RECREATION 611

much as she would have had there been no “out-
siders” present. The narrator introduced the play
and the scene, and asked the audience to consider
the social problem which the play presented.

In producing such a play, each child of neces-
sity came to know a little more and feel a little
more about social issues. But there seems to be a
good deal more involved in this experience. The
leader felt that many children began to come to the
group who did not fit in elsewhere in the settle-
ment. The shy ones and those with little talent
for. dramatic expression found the flexibility and
informality of the program satisfying. All that
children needed was the desire to participate. If
skill were present, and could be developed, it was
encouraged; if not, thechild could still “go on
playing.” Those children who had little experi-
ence in any kind of dramatic activity seemed slow
to respond. Their interest and need for dramatic
expression was apparent and it was satisfying to
the leader to draw them out slowly. It is not, of
course, possible to measure the development and
growth of each individual child during the experi—
ence. If their interest and enjoyment was any in—
dication, then, certainly, a contribution must have
been made.

The Smoking Room Discusses
Recreation

{Continued from page 56.5)

used in such experiments, and the integrity of the
forces put to work on those materials, would dis-
cipline that independent thinking you were trying
to stimulate? Isn't there a fidelity in the behavior
of wood or steel that impresses one with its trust—
worthiness? If one drills it in the wrong spot, so
it doesn’t fit, isn’t he forced to accept the blame
himself, without alibis? Isn’t his freedom in inde—
pendent thinking disciplined by that proof that it
must always relate itself to the laws that rule an
orderly universe?

“And wouldn't you hope, too,” he added finally.
"that beyond those material experiments the ex—
perience of sharing ideas in working together with
fellow craftsmen might help him learn some other
lessons that don't involve materials? Don't you
think that those experiences might help him learn
how to deal with his fellow men as well as how to
deal with material substances? Don’t we need to
make discoveries in that field, too? To invent new
patterns for man himself, improved tolerances in

FEBRUARY 1946

 

human relationships, a better human society to use
that better machinery which we hope to design for
our future security? Do you realize that not one of
you has suggested any additional competition where
boys meet to combat each other? Haven’t you been
talking about exploring ways to stimulate and help
each other? Don't you think that may be signifi-
cant too? Just as we need imagination to design
tolerances into machinery so it will not break under
every unusual strain, don't we need a practiced
imagination to design for more of give and per—
haps a little less of take, in the rc—tooling of our
social machinery and its statesmanship, to adapt it
to the overloads it will have to meet after this
nightmare war ?"

This started us on another phase of our im-
promptu smoking room discussion, and ended that
part of it which was related to recreation.

It ended, at least, until I reached home and could
follow through on some of its suggestions. '

hit that will have to wait for telling in another
storv.

612 THE WONDER OF CHILDHOOD CLASSICS

 

 

you Gan Use I

THE IOU'RNAL of HEALTH

and PHYSICAL EDUCATION
A Reliable Source of Material on:

0 HEALTH EDUCATION
0 PHYSICAL FITNESS

0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In fact, on every phase of school programs relating to health,
physical education. and recreation. Over 600 large pages
each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to thosg charged with the health and happiness of human
beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July ond August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION
1201 Sixteenth St., NW... Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

Friends Through Recreation
(Continued from page 585)

States Ofiice of Education, Washington, D. C.
(Recorded at 78 r.p.m. for victrolas and record
players.)

Books Bring Adventure, Series I, “One World"

Thirteen book adaptations in dramatic form pre-
pared by the Association of Junior Leagues of
America. Available individually or as a series.
(Recorded at 78 r.p.m. for victrolas and record
players and at 33 1/3 r.p.m. for transcription play-
backs.) Available from World Broadcasting Co.,
71] Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

5. Some Folk Festivals Held Annually

Mountain Dance and Song Festival, Asheville, N. C.

Annual Folk Festival, Cultural Olympics, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Penna.

Inter-Tribal Indian Ceremonial, Gallup, New Mexico

Festival of Nations, International Institute, St. Paul,
Minn.

International Festival, Department of Municipal Rec-

reation and Adult Education of Milwaukee Public
Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

Fall Festival of the International House, University
of California, Berkeley, Cal.

Spring Festival, University of New Mexico, Albuquer-
que, New Mexico

Hull House Festival, Halstead Street, Chicago, Ill.

Bennington College Folk Festival,

Vermont

Bennington,

Wheeling Folk Festival, Oglebay Institute, Wheeling,
West Virginia

Italian-American Folklore Society Annual Pageant,
New York, N. Y.

The Wonder of Childhood Classes

(Continued from page 571)

advised also to turn to Mr. Thurber’s book, “The
\Vhite Deer,” where he will find all the glamour
of an old—time fairy tale, with all the overtones of
a troubled, skeptical modern mind in a troubled.
confused modern world.

And while I am on some recent instances of this
special realm of gold, I suggest Robert Lawson’s
story, “Mr. \Vilmer.” Mr. Wilmer is twenty-nine,
has for some years been a timid clerk in the office
of the Safe and Sane and Colossal Insurance Com-
pany. One day he heard,,unmistakably, the police-
man’s horse, whom he had been feeding sugar for
years, complain-out loud in so many stout words
about the policeman. From that moment Mr. Wil-
mer's life was changed. It is worth reading how
curious and gay and illuminating a career Mr.
W’ilmer’s gift for talking with animals gave him in
our skyscraper and publicity civilization. And,
lest one think that good sense, tenderness, magic,
the substance of children’s books, are confined to
England and America, the reader should be re-
minded of the exemplary fusion of these excel-
lences in St. Exupéry’s “The Little Prince.” 0

All the books mentioned herein have an addii
tional dimension for adults. For mature readers
they become ironic parables, and evoke a nos—
talgia besides for a childhood long since gone. But
if adults gain in reading pleasures unknown to the
child, they lose, too. As grown-ups we never go
through the looking-glass quite completely. We
substitute, a la Coleridge, “a willing suspension of
disbelief.” We are no longer

The dream child moving through a land,
Of wonder wild and new,

In friendly chat with bird or beast,
And half 'believe it true.

\R'e have entered the realm of book for those
older children miscalled adults. We wish no longer
to be decieved, or at least we require more com-
plex deceptions, or we seek out the clear, bitter
taste of disillusion. But when the truth of things
presses us too much, or experience has too cruelly
deceived us, we turn with relish to children’s tales
where the deceptions are always kindly, and the
illusions sweet. \Ye turn back to the shadow-
world that once had the tang of reality. And for
the children to whom we may read these books
aloud, the tang still exists. In a grown-up civiliza-
tion of atomic dilemmas, it is clear gain that we

can at least half share the child’s pleasure in a
children’s book.

RECREATION

|
l

M A CA Z 1 NES A ND PA M PH LE TS 613

     

Magazines and Pamphlets

1 Recently Received Containing Articles of 2
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 
  
 

MAGAZINES

Journal of Health and Physical Education, December 1945

Improving Your Volleyball Instruction, Harold T.
Friermood

Physical Fitness for a Peacetime \Vorld, Louis C.
Schroeder

Parents' Magazine, January 1946
How to Have Fun at the Museum, Mildred Holzhauer

Scholastic Coach, December 1945
Organization for Tumbling, Capt. Bowman N. Hall

Children's Religion, February 1946‘

Beginnings in Creative Expression with Crayons and
Paint, Rowena Hudson Winn

The Camping Magazine, December 1945
Post War Camp Building, Julian H. Salomon

Let’s Have a Rocky Experience Next Summer!
L. E. Hoffman

The Camp Fire Girl, January 1946

At Home in the World, Adelaide Stiles, Eula \Vood
Adams

Fun with Science, Blanche Berger
Cast on Stage, Nancy Smuck

PAMPHLETS

Modern Gymnasium Seating

Harold R. Sleeper, The Producers’ Council, Inc.,
815 Fifteenth Street N\V, \Vashington 5, D. C.

(lo-operative Community Centres, Part I—Guide to
Probable Development

Hugh H. Harvey, Organization and Inspection Ser-
vices, Department of Co—operation and Co-opera-
tive Development, Organization and Inspection Ser-
vices, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.

An Analysis of the Art of Curling

H. E. Weyman, P. O. Box 100, Levis, Province of
Quebec, Canada

A Guide for Planning School Buildings

Eugene B. Elliott, Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion, Lansing, Michigan

Know Your Town’s Future

The National League of Women Voters, 726 Jackson
Place NW, Washington 6, D. C. Publication No.
35, price 25¢

Helping Disabled Veterans
The American Red Cross, \Vashington, D. C.

FEBRUARY 1946

CONGRESS
PROCEEDINGS

The Proceedings of the Twenty-eighth
National Recreation Congress will be
ready for distribution shortly.

The edition of the Proceedings of
this Congress will be limited.

Order your copy of the
Congress Proceedings
NOW!

Price $1.75
0

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

315 Fourth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

Breaking Into the Movies
(Continued from page 575)
games. These long days on the playgrounds meant
both fun and recreation for the youngsters.

Playground Benefits

Since the action of the first script, entitled
Jimmy’s Reward, centered about a pet show on
one of the playgrounds, you may imagine what ex-
citement there was in grooming the pets for the
occasion I Two of the most appealing scenes in the
movie turned out to be those that showed the chil-

BOXING RINGS

   

Wye/u MATS-PADS

,1

TRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE SAIL

'eAsrs AND muoaro sommrur...

Jul-nod by experts, and. by experienced will" from
quality material: ml sold dine It cdiuh, any, on.
Independent, truly wholes-Io.

.1:
NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT COMPANY
an MAIOUtI’I't o rose on no. was.

     
        

   

014 RECREATION IN AMERICA’S SECRET CITY

dren washing their dogs and teaching them tricks.
The play called for quite a large group of adults
as well as children, and there was quick response
on the part of both—-—it was a thrill to be in a
movie. Of course, owing again to cost, it was nec-
essary beforehand to decide on the most beguiling
gardens, the shadiest porches for the few shots
that were not on the playgrounds. It took six days
to finish the first movie.

Rewards

Later the narration was synchronized with the
action, and the exposition and dialogue added a
great deal to the effectiveness of the story. The
movie had its premiere at the Oak Park Play-
grounds’ Circus last summer. It was shown again
at Christmas time at the dramatic festival.

The worth of a movie, these playgrounds have
found, lies not only in the training in a new tech—
nique of acting that the children have received, but
in its publicity values. The staff has recently
learned that the film is being widely rented by
schools and recreation groups. One Boy Scout
executive has suggested a series of scripts to be
written about objectives in the pledge of the Scouts.

The experiment is a new one and the Oak Park
Playgrounds are still feeling their way with it, but
the idea does seem to hold some happy possibili-
ties. How about trying it out yourself?

Recreation in America's Secret City

(Continued from page 577)

the area for a major dance about every six weeks,
a feature popular with a public isolated and far
removed from this normal type of entertainment.
Dancing classes are held for both children and
adults. Such classes include instruction in ball-
room, tap and folk dancing. Quite a large propor-
tion of the workers are native Tennesseans, and
Tennessee is, of course, known far and wide for
its square dances. At two “hoe-downs” held each
week, the walls of the recreation halls fairly bulge.

One of the halls, located just a stone’s throw
from the high school, was set aside for the exclu-
sive use of teen-agers. It is stormed by scores of
youngsters after school hours. lts staff works in
close conjunction with the school authorities and
with the local juvenile delinquency officers, thereby
keeping juvenile delinquency at a very low point.

Each Sunday afternoon and evening, open-
house is held in each of the halls. Refreshments

are served, semi-classical recorded music is played,
and an effort is made to create an informal at—
mosphere and to offer pleasant surroundings to the
people who come.

In the field of music, Oak Ridge early boasted
of a symphony orchestra, a community chorus, a
concert band, a women’s madrigal group, and sev-
eral small ensembles. Each of these is composed
of volunteer musicians from the community. In
addition, a regular professional concert series is
available, billing such artists as Alex Templeton,
I-Ierta Glaz, and the Nine-O’clock Opera Company

A very successful Little Theater group has a
workshop in an old barn. They have presented
such productions as M 3! Sister Eileen, The Night
of January I 6th and Musical Jazziborees.

The Film Society is composed of about 300
members. They have presented the outstanding
16 mm. films of the past ten years. Their list of
showings has included artistic, documentary, and
historical films. In addition, discussion sessions
are held on the technical, psychological and social
aspects of moving pictures. This'group has also
provided a workshop for those who are interested
in small scale production of 16 mm. films.

Besides those already mentioned, club interest
groups have included a Stamp Club, a Chess Club,

an Artists’ Club, a Supper Club, and others too
numerous to mention.

The need for a public library in the community
was recognized almost from the start and one was
quickly opened. It now has expanded to a point
where more than 10,000 readers have been regis-
tered. All of the volumes are new, having been
purchased by the Association. An old army am-
bulance was secured from the pool of surplus
pr0perty, gaily painted and put to use as a travel—
ing library. It has reached into remote areas and

offered library service to points far removed from
the main library.

Analysis

Is the program a success? For an answer to this
question, one may ask some of the workers on the
project and then visit the various facilities any
evening in the week and witness thousands of men,
women and children taking part in some phase of
the program. Such a visit will furnish this answer.
“Organized industrial recreation is tremendously
important in relieving the tension of work as well

-as the tensions brought about by living in an

abnormal community situation.”

RECREATION

NOH' OFF THE. PRESS!

Now Off the Press!

I
i
You In av HAVE SEEN them at the Congress—the
group of new publications that we rushed
through the printers to be ready for that occasion.

to know about it. But, because of that rush job we
have more than the usual number of booklets to
report—so tnany more that this column won't
hold them all! So-we are using the inside back
cover of this issue of RECREATION to give you an
idea of what’s new in the Association’s library of
books designed to give “aid and comfort" to the
recreation leader everywhere. Don't overlook thc
inside back cover this month!

W

 

Tryout Theatre, Incorporated
(Continued from page 566)
is changing. The good director or designer with
experience in the new play is itt demand. (Tryout
Theatre members have gone to 'Grinnell, to the
University of Montana, to Pasadena Playhouse, to
Cleveland Playhouse, to the University of New

 

 

615

  

RIDE
YOUR
HOBBY

with these

HELPFUL
BOOKS

5%..

 

 

 

 
   
 

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING. by Clmrlea Carlaon . . . . . . . .3150
PENCIL DRAWING. by Charles Carlsnn . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOM Y. by Cltarlea Carlson . . o 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKETCIIES. by Cbal'lntte Ynung . . . . o . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING. by Charles Corlaon. . . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlsnn . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00

PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCIIES. byChurlntte II.Young 1.00
CARTOONINC IS A FUNNYP RIlSINESS, by S. B. Falee 1.00
BUSINESS OF CAIITOONINC. by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
DRA‘VINC FOR ILLUSTRATION. by Arthur Zaldenberg 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING. by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

Mexico, to the University of Michigan, and to
Tacoma Little Theatre.) Wives of servicemen
- working in the theatre leave suddenly to join hus-
bands. Servicemen, apparently permanently sta—
‘ tioned in Seattle, are transferred in the middle of

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS
80 East Hill Street New Yorlt, N. Y.

    

- If you weren’t at the Congress, or if you some-
how missed seeing this new material you will want
I

  
 

the arduous task of attempting to interview
' thousands of friends.

a run. Someone borrows furniture and neglects to

return it. Voluntary, unpaid workers are not
- always of one ,opinion. Theatre backgrounds vary

antong the workers.
' But the theatre is held together by a dream that
is practical. Seattle is seeing the new play. Seattle
is developing the local, the Northwest writer.
Seattle has embarked on another venture, this time
not to bring the commerce of the East and West
together, but to realize the creativeness of a peo—
ple. Their new project is the recognition, cultiva—
tion, and exploration of a cultural resource.

The next step will be to secure a building—
where the ceiling doesn’t sag, the floors don’t need
reinforcing, the wiring doesn’t exhibit too much
independence. A theatre born during a war period
will thrive and grow in times of peace.

“May we bespeak for them your sincere and
earnest consideration———when he calls give him
the opportunity to tell you the story so that
you may become more completely and better
informed.

“Only your heart can be the final guide to
this investment in human welfare. Make it as
generous as your means permit.

“With your help and the help of all the
others, we can be successful.

“You‘ll help—won’t you 3‘”

A building committee was appointed to consider
plans for both building and site. The Memorial
Committee was also appointed to analyze and
study the most practical and desirable design for
the establishment of a dignified and apprOpriate

memorial.

The Dream Comes True
On December 8, 1945, the Memorial Youth
Center, partially completed, was dedicated. The
center already offers a large outdoor dance patio,
two tennis courts, one softball court, and other
sports facilities; a snack bar and recreation room.

A Memorial. Youth Center

(Continued from page 573)
and women have enlisted in this special work

so this cause may succeed.
“Not only have they made their own sub-
scription in a generous measure, but they have.

FEBRUARY 1946

s
0

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Story of the Springfield Plan

By Clarence I. Chatto and Alice L. Halligan. Barnes and

Noble, Inc., New York. $2.75.

T IS PERIIAPS, not too much to say that this story of

what has become known everywhere as “the Spring-
field Plan,” is a must for the reading list of every think-
ing American. For community leaders who are charged
by their leadership to seek ways of overcoming those
habits of thought that have led so many people to in-
tolerance and blindness to the human needs and the human
rights of their fellow human beings, the detailed story of
what Springfield is doing and has done to foster real
democratic living stands as a challenge and an inspiration.

Crattsman's Instruction Hand book

By Tony Parsi. Educational Materials, Inc., New York.

EATHERCRAF‘I‘, rural craft, card weaving, rush seating,
toy making are a few of the many crafts described in
this book. Each craft discussed is well illustrated with
pictures and charts to supplement the verbal explanations.

Democratic Administration

By Ordway Tead. Association Press, New York. $1.25.

HE TWO PARTS of this book “Creative Management"
(first Published in 1935) and "Democracy in Admin-
istration,” present, according to the author “a rationale
for democratic action of a sensible kind in day to day

experiences.”

Son of the Wilderness

By Linnie Marsh \Volfe. Alfred A. Knopf, New York.
$3.50.
0N OF THE \VILDERNESS is a careful and painstaking
biography of John Muir written by a friend of his
family’s who has had free access to his writings both
published and unpublished. The book is carefully docu-
mented and well illustrated.

catch That Catch Can

Edited by Mary Catherine Taylor, Margarita Windham
and Claude Simpson. E. C. Schirmer Music Company,
Boston, Massachusetts. $1.00.

ALLUSIONS 'ro ROUNDS AND CATCHES—SO called from the

fact that in performing a round the groups of sing-
ers had to "catch-up” their part in turn—are so common
in Elizabethan literature that their popularity is unques-
tionable. \Vith the founding in 1761 of the “noblemen
and gentlemen catch club,” the catch became tirme
established.
This collection contains one hundred English rounds
and catches from the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-
turies, including the well-known Three Blind Mice which

dates back to 1609.
616

 

Educators Guide to Free Films

Compiled and edited by Mary Foley Horkheimer and
John W. Differ. Educators 1’r0gress Service, Ran-
dolph, \Visconsin. $4.00.

T1115 15 THE FIFTH EDITION of the Educators Guide to

Free Films which has been re-issued each year since

1941. Films are listed under the following headings:

Applied Arts, Fine Arts, Health Education, Science.

Social Studies. Films added since the fourth edition ap-

peared are starred.

Thirty Years of Girlsll Club Experience

By Rachel Harris Johnson and Dora Estelle Dodge.
Dora E. Dodge, Worcester Girls Club, 67 Lincoln
Street, Worcester 5, Mass. Single copies, $1.75. Five
or more copies, $1.25 each.

HIS is A STORY of the ‘Worcester Girls’ Club, and he-
cause the story [begins as far back as 1916 there are
thirty years of experience upon which to base the practi-
cal material which has come out of this long history of
continuous Operation, trial and error, and accomplishment.
While the material has been assembled First of all to
serve as a textbook of Worcester Girls’ Club, there is
much in the chapters on Public Relations, Leadership, '

Program Planning, Health and Social Service, and other

sections which should have much value for girls’ clubs

throughout the country with buildings and facilities de—

signed to serve organized groups of younger girls.

 

 

thcers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

Rosam- GAaaar-r, Chairman of the Board of Directors

ITOW’ARD BaAUCHEa, President

Joan G. WmAnr, First Vice-President

Mas. Ocoax L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board

GUSTAVUS T. Kmav, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. Gnsco Beans, Boston, Mass.

Mas. Roam-r Wooos Buss, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BaAUCHea, New York, N. Y.
Haney L. Conan-n, Portland, Ore.

Mas. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla._
Mas. THOMAS A. Eorson, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

Rosam- GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
Ans-rm E. Garrnrns, Seattle, \Vash.

Mas. NORMAN HAaaowna, Fitchhurg, Mass.
Mas. LIELVILLB H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
Mas. CHARLES V. Hrcxox, Michigan Cit , Ind.
Mas. JOHN D. Jameson, Sugar Hill, N. {.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. MCK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. Lin, Boston, Mass.

0110 T. MALLaav, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKBN, Augusta, Me.

Mas. Or;an L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
Mas. Srcmuno STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

Fnaomlcx M. WAnauac, New York, N. Y.

JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
Suntle WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

