Fair Salaries for Recreation Workers

_._..--————_

Salaries of recreation workers have been disproportionately low.

 

Qualifications of good recreation workers are high—include a com-
bination of the practical, good common sense and idealistic
leadership, special education and experience.

 

Salaries of recreation executives and recreation workers must be
comparable to school superintendents, principals, and teach—
.ers. Recreation workers must be qualined to enlist,
train, and guide volunteers ofhigh capacity.

a——_

 

Competent young leaders cannot be enlisted unless a fair minimum
salary is provided and year-round employment.

Good recreation workers already employed will be lost unless
more adequate salaries are paid.

It would be poor economy with six billion dollars invested in tax-
supported recreation land and facilities to fail to provide

wise and qualified recreation' leadership.

Churches, chambers of commerce, service clubs, veterans’
organizations, Junior Leagues, P.T.A.’s, women’s
clubs, and all civic and public spirited groups
will find it advantageous to work for fair
salaries for recreation workers.

A number of cities have demonstrated what can be done in paying
good salaries for good work and holding good workers.

HOWARD BRAUCHER
President
National Recreation Association

JULY I946

177

Miami Dain News Photo by Bob Gland”

Spiri’r of '46

E
RECREATION

 

Space for Play

boast that America has the

linest parks in the world, and then scream to.
high heaven when their town, or state, wants to
spend $5,000 on a playground for youngsters, or
a picnic area where families can enjoy a week end.
We have some splendid parks scattered about this
country, but they do little for the city child who is
miles'from the nearest playground.

The sad fact is that only,one city in a hundred
has enough playgrounds and public athletic lields,
parks, or near—by camping and picnic areas to meet
its needs right n0w. And none of them has enough
to fill the greatly increased needs of tomorrow.
Those needs are going to be terrific, not only in
our cities and the areas thereabout but in our

I AM ANNOYED by people who

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

JULY 1946

By HAROLD L. I'CKEs

counties and states, in practically
all parts of our country. We are
face to face with the biggest boom in recreation
that the world has ever known.

The millions of us who put in ten-hour days and
six-day weeks, right through the war, are going
to bring about that boom. We were tied down by
our jobs. ‘N e could not even get out in the open
on Sundays because of gasoline rationing. Now
we want to get moving. We want to go camping
in the outdoors, to ride and hike over the moun-
tains, to swim and fish and sail in our rivers and
lakes and oceans. So do the millions of our return-
ing soldiers and sailors.

The Department of the Interior and the Na-
tional Park Service have been making surveys,
and working with the states, and
seeking to wangle land for thou-
sands of additional recreation
areas from other
parts of the Gov-
ernment. They
have drawn up a
program for addi-
tional play areas
that may affect the

C aurtesy Holiday

179

180 SPACE FOR PLAY

after-work hours, weekends and vacations of mil-
lions of Americans.

But the trouble is that there are not enough
recreation areas where they are needed the most,
in and near our big cities, where most of our peo-
ple live who do not have the time or the money to
travel to far—'off parks. Even our biggest and most
forward-looking cities need more neighborhood
playgrounds and playtields. We can have them if
we have the energy to look for them, and the
determination to light for them. And, in a minute,
- I will tell you where to look.

Here’s what our cities need: There' should be a
playtield with space for both baseball and softball,
tennis courts, basketball, and so forth, within easy
walking distance of every city child. There should
also be facilities
where elderly men
and women can
meet, relax and
play.

There should
also be more rec-
reation areas in the near-by
country where city folks can
go for holidays and week ends.
These should be less than 25
miles away, and, if that could be cut to 10 or 15
miles, so much the better. Then they would be
used by additional thousands who otherwise
couldn’t enjoy them.

 

Courtesy Holiday

Look about your own city. How far does it fail
to meet these needs?

When I think about play areas fOr big cities, I
think at once of America’s rivers—and my temper-
ature rises. Many of our big cities are built beside
once-beautiful rivers. These could furnish excel-
lent recreation areas in the very front yards of
metropolitan centers. 'They do not, because we
have poured the refuse of a nation into them. The
rivers that should serve as refreshing oases in
deserts of brick and stone too'often are highly
odoriferous. It is dangerous even to paddle across
one. Should your canoe upset, you may end up in
a hospital with anything from typhoid fever to the
Chinese rot. Greed, laziness and stupidity have
destroyed the play spots that would have meant
the best kind of recreation in almost every big city
in America.

Washington, the nation’s capital, is a striking
example. The Potomac River is wholly fitted to be
a great natural playground, but sewage and indus-

I

trial waste have ruined it. Today, it is fit neither
for fish nor human beings.

You will realize how tragic this is if you 'will
look about your city and see how few spots seem
suitable for development into recreation areas. We
did not do much thinking about such things a gen-
eration or more ago, when outdoor recreation as

" Franklin D. Roosevelt .once told Congress “was

widely regarded as a polite form of indolence.” -
The result was that sections that could have been
made into ideal parks and playgrounds became so
built up that any possibility of using them for rec-
reation had to be forgotten.

We are a little smarter today, but we still can be
stupidity itself when it.comes to making life more
pleasant and healthful for ourselves. Take Wash-
ington again as a terrible example. We boast that
Rock Creek Park is. one of' the loveliest city parks
in the world, and it is. But actually, it is little
more than a glorified boulevard. Years ago, before
the land near the stream was sold for building lots,
it should have been incorporated into the park and
the limits greatly extended. This would not have
cost much a quarter of a century ago when the
then Secretary of the Treasury, William G. Mc-
Adoo, urged it. Now it is too late. Unfortunately,
there are too many congressmen who would rather
have a new post office for the home town than
spend money on Washington. There are no votes
in that.

I hit the ceiling the other day when I heard how
a town in New York had sold out its children.
I won’t mention its name, for it is typical of too
many cities and towns in all parts of the country.
Let us just call it X-ville. Airplane factories and
shipyards had sprung up near X-ville early in the
war, and hundreds of the town’s mothers patri-
otically took war jobs, trying to supervise their
children in their off—hours. ‘

Never before were playgrounds and recreation
centers so important. But X-ville.did not seem to
realize it. For instance, near the center of town was
an open field with a tiny stream that widened out
to form a lovely pond. The pond was not deep
enough for swimming, but any winter afternoon
one would see 50 or 100 children skating over its\§\-
frozen surface. 

This field was an ideal spot for a badly needed
playground. The pond could have made a wading
pool in summer, and there was room for a softball
diamond, a tennis court or two, and some play—
ground equipment. But did X—ville’s town fathers 1

think of anything like that? Of course not.\

RECREATION

SPACE FOR PLAY 181

Perhaps they felt it was
wrong to think about such
things in wartime. Or may-
be they thought that there
wasn’t enough money, or
enough manpower, you
will say.

But those same town
fathers, in the midst of the
war, found the money and
the manpower to enclose
that little stream in a huge,
square concrete pipe. That
made of the lot an ideal
building site, and its owner
was doubtless grateful. But
it also turned a pleasant
field into an eyesore and
wiped out the pool, com—
pletely. Of course it ended
the fun for the children.

I said that there are
plenty of .such towns everywhere. Here is another
story from another town, which I will call Y-ville.
In the middle of Y-ville’s residential section two
men had built half a dozen tennis courts, which
they rented by the hour to the people of the com-
munity. The war came and these young men were
called into the Army. There was no one to take
care of the courts, and before the first summer was
over, those tennis courts were ruined. And the
boys and girls and their fathers and mothers who
had been using them simply gave up tennis.

Yet I suspect that the owners would have been
delighted to have the town take over the courts

for the duration. And even if Y—ville did not have ‘

the. manpower to do the job, I will wager that the
town youngsters would gladly have kept the courts
in condition for the privilege of playing on them
free. But the town stepfathers never thought of
that, and another badly needed recreational center
was lost.

We must think of things like that. Our cities
cannot afford to let deSperately needed playgrounds
and playhelds slip through their fingers. Instead,
each community should survey its recreational re-
sources, both public and private, both existent and
those that can be developed, and then work out a
plan, first, for acquiring them, and, then, for using
them.

The National Park Service has been Sponsoring
such surveys in communities and states all over
America. It has made similar surveys itself. These

IULY 1946

 

Courtesy Halida;

surveys show that there are many locations, some
of them natural playgrounds, that should be added
immediately to our recreational system. And one
excellent location is along our ocean front which
almost everywhere lies behind the fences of private
ownership.

When our 132,000,000 people no longer can set
{Cot upon the thousands of miles of ocean front
that bound America, without the permission of
those who mon0polize it, then it is time for the
Federal Government and the state governments to
get busy. They should step in and acquire, not
just a swimming beach here and there but con-
tinuous stretches of ocean front hundreds of miles
in length. Call this ocean front a national park or a
state park or anything you choose, I say that the
people have a right to a fair share of it.

At Cape Hatteras; the Federal Government and
the State of North Carolina have got together to
set up a national seashore 125 miles long. This
should be duplicated, again and again, along the
Atlantic and the Pacific and the Gulf of Mexico,
until at least one tenth of our seacoast has been
turned into public parks. The same thing should
be done, over and over, along all of our major
lakes and rivers.

As an example of what can be done, look at
Chicago, which has provided great stretches of
beach and walks along Lake Michigan, and plans

to do more.
We cannot chop up our cities and sprinkle the

{82 SPACE FOR PLAY

pieces about the open country. But such water—
front parks would help to bring healthful outdoor
afun close to the paved streets. There are other
ways, too, if we have the imagination to see them
‘and the courage to develop‘them. '

Walking is a case in point. It could be one of
the most pleasant sports for our crowded metro-
‘politan areas. But what have we done to make it
possible for millions of city people to enjoy cross—
country hiking? Practically nothing.

Yes, we have built the Appalachian Trail,
stretching along the Appalachians from Maine to
Georgia, the John Muir Trail in the Sierras, and
the Long Trail through the Green Mountains.

They are splendid, .and the scenery is superb,

but only a handful of people can enjoy them. They
are too far awayfrom most city folks. And these
trails are too strenuous for the paunches, the
limited lung power, and the palpitating hearts of
many who have passed the midway mark.

Let us give the simple sport of walking back to
city people. Taking a walk, except the Al Smith
kind, has become a lost art in America, not be-
cause the people are tired of walking, but because
they are”tired of eluding amateur Oldlields at the
wheels of galloping jalopies. I

Let us arrange things so that they can ride to
the end of the bus or trolley line and there ex-
change the hard pavement for a springy footpath
leading across fields, and through woods, and
.beside streams.

It would cost very little. We would not even
have to buy the land. All that would be needed
are narrow rights-of-way through private property.
So far as their eyes can see, those who walk them
will “own” wide slices of the'countryside.

There are plenty of spots that are located near
every city for such trails. They could be arranged
in long and short loops. They could be planned so
that they would connect with-trolley or bus routes.
They could be expanded later into longer cross-
country trails, for week-end hikes or bicycle trips.

Low-cost overnight accommodations and cook-
ing facilities ought to be set up on the longer
trails, similar to the youth hostels that have been
established so widely in New England and other
parts of the country. .

They would make week-end tramps and bicycle
trips cheaper, still .more fun, and thousands of ad-
ditional city people would be able to enjoy them.

Another natural aid to recreation at the door of
some cities is 'the old-time barge canal. Its com-
mercial usefulness has almost disappeared, but its

just being discovered. The old Illinois and _Michi-
gan canal, near Chicago, for example, is dotted
with canoes on every summer week-end, and hik—
ers and bicyclists loaf along its old tow path. The
Chesapeake and Ohio canal, which starts its uphill
climb just outside of Washington, is now being
transformed by the National Park Service into a
similar recreational waterway. Our cities should
look about for other near-by canals before another
wonderful opportunity is gone. 

Unlike the barge canals, the Intracoastal Water- 
way, 'the “inland route” that stretches along the
Atlantic Ocean from Massachusetts to Florida, is
full of commercial shipping. But that does not
interfere with the many pleasure craft that travel
its waters. If we use common sense in developing
the shoreline for recreation, we could transform
it into a recreational waterway with camping areas
and picnic grounds close to our crowded eastern _
cities.

Parkways are another obvious, though costly,
aid to recreation in metropolitan areas. They
should be built along every near-by waterway.
They should be used to connect major units of our
recreational systems. Their rights-of-way should
be wide enough so that they can also provide
hiking and bicycling trails, occasional playgrounds
and playiields, and here and there a “wayside,”
where one can pull off the highway for a spell to
look at the scenery or to get away from the noise
and smell of traffic. . '

If we can furnish enough recreation areas to
meet the needs of our big cities and of our crowded
Eastern seaboard, we will not have to worry too
much about the rest of the country. In the West,
where the Federal Government owns many of the
spectacular mountain areas and huge stretches of
virgin forests, we have virtually all the land that
will be needed for recreation. Unfortunately most
of the Eastern states did not have the foresight or
the imagination that the Federal Government has
exercised wherever it could. What wouldn’t those I
states give now for National Parks close to the I
crowded metropolises! Yet, even in the East, by
the time we have added the land that the states, 
the municipalities, and the Federal Government are 
planning to buy, to the areas they already own, ’0:
there may be almost enough to fill the need for
rural recreation areas.

“We need thousands of winter-sports parks to
accommodate the fast-growing hordes who love to
ski, skate, go snowshoeing, tobogganing, ice-boat- xi:

possibilities in the realm of outdoor pleasure are }

RECREATION

SPACE FOR PLAY 183

ing and sleighing. We need even more water-
sports areas, where people can swim, sail and fish.
And close by both types of parks we ought to have
public campgrounds and cabin colonies and mod-
erately priced inns and hotels.

I come back to the program that I mentioned
earlier for increasing the opportunities for recrea-
tion in all parts of America. Towns, counties,
states, and branches of the Federal Government
are co-operating to create play areas on all kinds
of Federal and state lands. Lands that were bought
for irrigation, or power generation, or flood con-
trol, or for national and state forests, are being
used for outdoor recreation, too.

The Bureau of Reclamation is creating a number
of areas for water-sports—parks that are especially
important, for most of them are in desert-like
regions where water is almost impossible to get.
For one example, take beautiful Lake Mead that
has been created back of Boulder Dam.

The Forest Service has developed hundreds of
water-sports parks and winter-sports areas, and

thousands of camping and picnic spots. And the '

Army Engineers, in their water-control projects,
also have developed many Splendid water-sports
areas. Now they are calling the National Park
Service in, before they start building their reser-
voirs, to see what possibilities there are for recre-
ation and to. make recommendations for develop-
ing them. Lake Texoma, behind Denison Dam, on
the Red River between 'Texas and Oklahoma, is
one. '
The Tennessee Valley Authority, by realizing
that recreation would be an important use of the
chain of lakesthat it built on the Tennessee River
and its tributaries and by spending millions for
aesthetic features on those lakes, has developed a
‘ whole series of community, county and state parks.

Some of the states have developed thousands of
recreation areas, too—many of them magnificant.
The state systems did not get started in many
cases until the 1930’s, yet they drew 90,000 visit-
ors in 1941, Which gives, some idea of how badly
they were needed, and how much they were appre-
ciated. There are additional plans for increasing
the numbers of state parks and for expanding
their facilities. They expect 200,000,000 visitors a
year by 1955 or 1960. g

All of this sounds fine, but we must not forget
that most of the expansion that I have been talk-
ing about is years ahead. And the big demand for
recreation is right on top of us. Where will the
millions of vacationists go this year?

IULY 1946

Those who have the time and the money to
make a fairly long trip may head for our National
Parks, praying that their tires will hold out and
that the overworked car does not fall apart before
they get home. There are going to be throngs of
visitors in all of the parks this year, record-break-
ing throngs. We were convinced of that last
August. Just an hour or two after Japan’s uncon-
ditional surrender had been announced on the
radio, a stream of cars began arriving at Rocky
Mountain National Park, and that stream grew
constantly larger as more and more people decided
to begin the vacation they had been postponing
since Pearl Harbor.

That same thing happened in all of the parks.
At Shenandoah National Park, for instance, there
were 19,626 visitors in September, 1944, when the
war and gasoline rationing were still going. But
in September, 1945, when the war and gasoline ra-
tioning were at an end, Shenandoah had 145,267
visitors. If you care for figures, that is an increase
of 640 percent. And this is only the beginning!
N o wonder the jam of visitors this year is expected
to break every record, surpassing the previous
peak year, 1941,. when-21,000,000 people visited
our National Parks and Monuments.

It will be almost impossible to handle them all.
The park staffs became pathetically depleted dur-
ing the war and must be built up again. And there
is an enormous amount of war-postponed repairs
to the facilities with insufhcient time to do the

_ work before-the rush of visitors starts. '

It would help tremendously if the millions of
park visitors could be spread over a longer season.
The season has always been from May to October.
But why cannot people come much earlier in the
spring, and much later in the fall? The hiking and
the riding and fishing and other Sports are every
bit as enjoyable then. And why cannot still more
people take winter vacations and join the growing
army. of younger men and women who use the
parks for winter sports?

The scenery is beautiful, no matter what the
season, and despite what some “Alps-firsters” have
said in the past, I think that it is just about the -
most beautiful in the world. But millions of those
who will visit our National Parks this year will
not enjoy that beauty. They just will not take the
time to look at it. Too many motorists race
through Yosemite, or Glacier, or Yellowstone. or
Rocky Mountain National Park, seeing only the
license plates of the car ahead.

( C antimwd on. page 218)

Playing With Nature

ANY PEOPLE of Minneapolis
M in the summer of 1945
followed William Cullen
Bryant’s advice, “Go out under
the open“ sky and listen to na-
ture’s teachings.” Minnehaha Park, Minneapolis,
has an area of 144 acres. Much of it is a beauti-
ful, deciduous wooded area where the native plants
have never been disturbed. Minnehaha Creek, im-
mortalized in Longfellow’s Hiawatha, winds
through a ravine flowing into the Mississippi River
two miles below a beautiful waterfall. Rock strata
of limestone, shale and sandstone are exposed in
the park.

In such a setting as this Minneapolis children
learned to play with nature when nature activities
wereadded for the first time in the summer of
1945 to the Tecreation programs carried on in
thirty-seven Minneapolis parks. An experienced
naturalist, added to the-staff in the summer to
conduct these activities, was in charge of "a kaleido-
scopic and continually interesting series of events
which included “hypnotizing” frogs, break-
ing open limestone rocks to find fossils,
catching brilliant colored butterflies, mark-
ing a nature trail, going on adventure
nature hikes, and making crayon, spatter,
and blue prints of leaves.

The naturalist worked with the various
agencies of the city—the Y.M.C.A., Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, a settlement house
and a d0wntown consolidated church daily
vacation Bible school—in adding nature
recreation activities to their summer pro-
grams. Y.M.C.A. members of Camp
Sahali (Stay-at-home—and-like-it) had a
6:00 A.M. breakfast hike and insect hunt
at Lake Harriet.

In each of the thirty-seven parks and -
- playgrounds a weekly “N ature-Venture”
Club was organized by the regular leader
with suggestions and supervisidn pro-
vided by the naturalist. Here the children
collected and mounted damselflies, played
nature games, took local hikes, made leaf
prints and scrapbooks at nature craft
workshops and held insect circuses.

184

By MILDRED J. ERICSON
Naturalist, Recreation Department

Board of Park Commissioners
Minneapolis. Minn.

For the circus they had to
capture the “big game.” They
went on hunting trips equipped
with nets, many glass jars with
screw tops, boxes and paper
bags. They looked for insects under rotten logs
and rocks, in the grass, on the sand, and flying in
the air.

To catch the butterflies, moths and dragonflies
that they sought they made their own nets—made
them from coat hangers twisted into a large ring.
Around the ring made by the coat hanger they
sewed heavy cotton cloth and- on the cotton cloth
they sewed mosquito netting or cheese cloth about
24 inches long and tapering at the end. With an
old broom for a handle their nets were complete.

These expeditions were searches for circus ex-
hibits—and that meant keeping the insects alive.
The youngsters made preparation for feeding their
animals by bringing along. with the captured
“beastie” a supply of the leaves on which it was

I ( C ontinued on page 221)

 

Photo by Edwin W. Teale

RECREATION

' Hobby At- Homes

HE MONTCLAIR, New Jersey,

Library’s Hobby At-Homes

were announced in the Mont-
clair Times in January. Word was
given that on each Wednesday afternoon during
February the books on some one hobby would be
shown at the main .library, with some expert in
that particular hobby on hand to show finished,
and partially finished, examples of the work, and
to demonstrate stitches.

The Montclair Library has an unusually strong
collection of books in the handcraft field because of
a special memorial fund designated for the pur-
chase of books on the folk arts. This collection was
the basic reason for the Library’s hobby effort.

The first Wednesday was devoted to weaving.
The hand loom which was
brought to the Library that
day had been built especially
for its owner, to her speci-
fications, by a capable car-
penter. On it, in process of
completion, were finely-pat-
terned blue and white strips of trimming for
dresses of the weaver’s two small granddaughters.
The warp was silk recently brought from Japan
by the father of one of the little girls when he
returned from service in the Pacific.

Around her, the demonstratbr had set out a
fascinating display of handwoven place-mats, table
runners, towels, face cloths, bath mats, baby
blankets, evening bags, and shopping bags, all of
which she herself had woven. Above them hung
a pictorial wall hanging made on her small loom.
She was wearing a suit, and had laid aside a win-
ter coat, both made from heavy wool material
which she had woven. Remnants left from the
making of a coat, a suit, and many woolen ties for
her husband showed further evidence of her useful
and pleasant industry.

, Weavmg

The demonstrator began to weave at a time

when she was not well. Having to stay in a great
deal and to take it easy, she started using a loom
as an entertaining and calm occupation. Her skill
with the shuttle, and with the designing of fine
pieces, many of them all of a color but varied by

JULY 1946

By DOROTHY WAUGH
Montclair Library
Montclair. New Jersey

The role of the public library in provid-
ing or in supplementing community recre-
ation activities can be a varied and impor-
tant one. Here's an idea from Montclair.
New Jersey. that is new and interesting.

the pattern of the threads, led her
to further and more varied efforts.
Free weaving, in which a color
pattern is invented as the work
proceeds, was exemplified in some of her work,
while intricate preliminary planning was evident
in other designs. Very fine pieces, forty-five woven
threads to the inch, and many coarser textiles
showed how varied the results can be.

The interest and the questions of those who
came to observe were lively. Several guests
brought examples of their own weaving and ‘
showed them to all the enthusiasts. One woman
brought a pair of green-and-cream curtains, ex-
plained that she was runnning out of green thread
with only half of the needed dozen pairs complete,
and asked advice. She got
it. Other weavers had ques-
tions about threading the
loom and working out pat-
terns to various scales.

The second Hobby At-
Homes covered handwork
called, for this series, minimum equipment hob-
bies. Embroidery, tatting, knitting, and crochet-
ing had been collected by an inspector of New
Jersey Schools of Nursing, from her own linen
closets and from the work of many persons she
had seen or supervised during her work in north
Jersey hospitals. '

Two of the most impressive pieces in this ex-
hibit were priests’ albs, their entire deep full
skirts made up of sheets of tatting made by a sister
in a north Jersey convent. Smaller, but often
exquisite pieces, included towels, pillow cases,
napkins, luncheon cloths, handkerchiefs, cuffs, col-
lars, and doilies, and knitted blankets, baby bon-
nets, booties, mittens, and sweaters.

Ru g-Hooking

Rug-hooking was the subject of the third after-
noon. A frame was set up, with a partly finished
design, in process. Other patterns, finished and un-
finished, showed a great variety of materials.
thicknesses, and patterns. An unsheared geometric
design, typical of the New Hampshire method, and
an intricately—Howered pattern, with sheared sur-
face of the Maine type, were among the oblong,

185

186 . HOBBY AT-HOMES

oval, round, and semi—circular rugs displayed.
Some of the patterns were found in pictures in
the Library’s extensive holdings.

A number of persons who had long wanted to
make rugs for themselves by this method, hooked
actual parts of a free pattern and cut strips of rag,
under the demonstrator’s tutelage, in order to
start off later by themselves with a greater feeling
of confidence than they might otherwise have had.

Needlepoint

For the fourth and last of the regular demon-
strations, when needlepoint was the subject, the
guests came even earlier than for the other gath-
erings—though on each of the four days people
had begun to assemble more than half an hour
before the time set. The person in charge on the
needlepoint afternoon, never was able to get her
display completely unpacked, because of the more
than prompt enthusiasm. The librarians who were
to put out the books on the subject had to have an
additional table brought, as the one set up for
books was taken over by eager women showing
each other gros point and petit point before the
hour for the exhibit had struck. ’

Three needlepoint panels done as wall hangings,
by three Montclair women—needlepoint pictures
of their own homes—attracted great interest. A
large hanging, patterned in rich color after a
Gobelin tapestry, drew admiring acclaim. A needle-
point seat in a beautiful_ hardwood child’s-size
chair, a candle table, a footstool, trays, pillows,
mats, bags, and purses were admired.

The designs on many of these pieces, including
the copy of the Gobelin tapestry, were drawn by
the needlewomen themselves, or by their husbands,
often from pictures belonging to the Library’s col-
lection of books, mounted pictures, or postcards.
The chance to demonstrate the usefulness of the
Library’s files for such a purpose was one of the
chief aims in the hobby project.

Most of the persons attending the gatherings
looked over the available books. ‘Some read whole
chapters before leaving the building; others took a
few books home with them as they left. The books
‘ ranged from practical discussions for beginners to
elaborate and sumptuous museum tomes heavily
illustrated by photographs showing the handwork
of queens, countesses, and peasants. ‘

Follow-Up

On the Wednesday following the four’ Hobby
At-Home Wednesdays at the Library, the Mont—

clair Art Museum invited all those who had at-
tended two or more of the gatherings to go to the
Museum for an intimate view of its finest laces
and its historic and beautiful needlepoint panels.
Almost everyone invited attended. The laces, of
many kinds and of the greatest perfection of work-
manship, were actually passed from hand to hand
and examined in detail. A “pillow,” with bobbin
lace in process, was on view.

The smaller,needlepoint pieces ‘were also passed
from person to person.“ The larger pieces, and
those in frames, were hung where they could be
easily viewed.

Few projects which the Library has carried on
have aroused such enthusiastic response as these
hobby afternoons. One person attended all 'five of
the gatherings. Many came to three or four. Most
of the near—by towns were represented by guests
on several of the days. Besides the woman who
brought her handwoven curtains, others brought
examples of their work or of fine work from
among their treasures. On the needlepoint after-
noon, for instance, one elderly lady, after seeing
the varied diSplay. of pieces, went home and re-
turned, before the afternoon was over, with a
lovely old Viennese leather wallet, stamped in
gold with her father’s name and the date 1860,
which marked the year his fiancee had presented
it to him. Made into the wallet was an exquisite
panel in petit point which had been worked under
a microsc0pe. '

Half a dOZen children looked over the displays
with interest, and about the same number of elderly
women. Most of the guests were in their twenties,
thirties, forties, or fifties. Most of them were
active enthusiasts in one or several of the accom-
plishments. Many of them showed by their re-
marks or by the work that they had brought with
them that their standards for workmanship were
high. The displays increased their wish to do
line-quality work. A number of friendships were
formed over the needles, bobbins, shuttles, and
practice stitches.

From the points of view'of the Art Museum, the
Library, and the individuals who returned for sev—
eral exhibits, the series of gatherings was an im—
portant success.

RECREATION would like to hear from other
libraries over the country which are sponsoring

recreation projects related to reading like Mont—
clair’s Hobby At-Homes.

RECREATION

A Practical Experiment

HE OWNER-OPERATOR of the
Health Center Roller Rink
in Norfolk, had an idea

three years ago . . . and he
would like to have another which would prove just

as successful.

One dull afternoon, when he was looking over
the scant crowd of skaters patronizing his rink,
recent news items came to mind. They dealt with
juvenile problems, the problems of keeping young
minds and bodies active, not necessarily to keep
them out of mischief, which, of course, was a de-
sirable aim, but to keep them occupied in a con—
structive way.

He broached the subject to his manager. The
upshot of the‘ discussion was a plan, which they
evolved and presented to the City Recreation
Bureau. They were a bit skeptical, at first, as to

The skaters go round and round

 

JULY 1946

By WALDO R. HAINSWORTH
Superintendent of Recreation

Norfolk. Virginia

how it would be received. They
need not have been.

They saw no reason, they
said, why they shouldn’t lend
their facilities to the Bureau. Business was thriv-
ing at night, but the afternoons found them staring
at a vacant floor. “Why not conduct a skating
program at our rink for school children?”

Offer Accepted!

It was such a forthright and unprecedented offer
that Bureau officials were nonplussed. But there
was no “catch.” Here was a large roller skating
rink, capable of accommodating 600 skaters, which
was available for the asking during the afternoons.
And, in the vernacular of the day, it was “for
free.” Even the skates were included. I

Roller skating, as everyone knows is a tradi—

tional sport with youngsters. They love it. Skates
were scarce on the market due to war conditions
and, anyway, it was safer, considering traffic con-
ditions, to have the children supervised.
' And that was how this
unusual program began. It
began with the summer va-
cation of 1944, and is still
going strong. The owner-
manager now has two roller
rinks, and both of them are
used in carrying out the
program which has reached
literally thousands of chil—
dren since its beginning.

Participation and
Leadership '

The fact is that the daily
average participation at both
rinks is now holding be-
tween 210 and 220. Of
course, all the children do
not skate every day. It has
been estimated that each
child will average about two
days per week. This means
over 500 different children
participating each week.

(Continued on page 216)

187

A Freshman lnventory of Leisure:

Time Skills

S. A PART of the orienta-
A tion program Hood
College offers Freshmen an Opportunity to
appraise their leisure-time skills and to make a
four-year plan for growth. The problem of mak-
ing a personal inventory of skills offers the in-
structor an excellent device on which to base
discussion and guidance in the field of education
for leisure.

Five areas for discussion concerning leisure-
time skills are suggested as a preliminary to check-
ing the twelve columns indicated in the Personal
Inventory Chart:

I. H ow broad are my leisure-time interests?

By checking columns I, 2, and 3, students may
easily get a picture of both the proficiency and the
breadth of their leisure-time interests. Such a
discussion ,will help to overcome their tendency to
think only of outdoor sports as leisure-time skills.

2. Am I good company for myself?

The checking of column 4 offers an opportunity
for a discussion of the need for developing inner
resources. Each student should consider how
many activities she can carry on alone with sat-
isfaction, in winter or summer, indoors or out-
doors, and in rain or sunshine.

3. Am I good company for others?

' The importance of‘ developing a broad basis for
companionship with people in various age groups
furnishes the central thought
for a worth-while discus—-
sion: The checking of col-

 

By ELIZABETH ECKHARDT MAY

participator after college?

Too many men and women
spend all of their leisure-time during college on
team games. These individuals frequently find
themselves merely spectators after college, when
age and lack of opportunity curtail participation in
team games. Ex-football players or ex-hockey
players are good examples. The value of team
games during college years must not be mini-
mized, but this program should not be permitted
to dwarf the possibility of .developing skills with
carry-over value. The results of checking columns
8, 9, and IO offer a preview of the future. The
interest on the part of the student in projecting
herself into the future will depend on her convic-
tions on the value of a diversity of leisure-time
interests as a broad basis for comradeship and for
the maintenance of mental and physical health.

5. What is my four-year plan for improving lei-
sure-time skills?

The enthusiasm with which students check col-
umns II and 12 will be a test of the worth of the
previous discussions. On the basis of the per-
sonal inventory, each student should be able to
make a plan for increasing and improving her lei-
sure-time skills during the four years in college
and during the summer vacations.

Directions for Checking the Personal Inventory
Chart of Leisure-Time Skills

NOTE: Copies of these

directions, along with the

chart, should be in the hands

umns 5, 6, and 7 offers an
opportunity to impress stu-
dents with the importance
of shared interests as the
foundation for understand-
ing and comradeship with
either men friends or girl

friends, and with children.

or with parents. Emphasis
should ‘be placed on the need
for.-a..variety of common in-
terests as a sound basis for
marriage. .

4. Will 'I be a spectator or
188

There seems to be a tendency today to
rely on tests as on a magic touchstone that
will lead to happiness and the good life.
You can test yourself or be tested for
everything from a feared allergy to‘bread
and potatoes up to and including the kind

of iob you're liker to fill with success
and satisfaction.

At Hood College, in Frederickl Maryland.
freshmen test themselves on leisure-time in-
terests and aptitudes for their present and
their future use. A description of their
methods and the chart that they use are

published on these pages in the belief that.
the process might be adapted for fun and
for "profit" by clubs and other groups.

 

of each student participat-
ing in the discussion.

Column I Check activities in
which you now have
enough skill to have fun.

Column 2 Check activities ,-
in which you have more\.
skill than the average ’
student.

Column 3 Check activities

you are able to teach
someone else.

Column 4 Check activities {
you can enjoy alone. "

RECREATION

A FRESHMAN INVENTORY OF LEISURE-TIME SKILLS

C olmmz 5 Check activities you can share with men
friends or girl friends.

1

Column 6 Check activities you can share with
young children.

Collmm 7 Check activities you can share with
older people.

Column 8 Check activities you are likely to con—
tinue until you are thirty.

Column 9 Check activities in which there is a
possibility of frequent participation from thirty
to fifty.

Column 10 Check activities that are ordinarily
continued after fifty. '

Column 1 1 Check the new activities you plan to

add to your list of leisure—time interests during'

the college year and during summer vacation.

C olmmi 12 Check the activities in which you plan

to increase your skill during the college year and
during summer vacation.

189

The number of class hours spent on the leisure-
time inventory will vary according to the enthusi-
asm of the individual instructor. The live ques—
tionsraised should furnish a valuable basis for dis—
cussion for at least two class periods. If possible,
time should be allowed for some of the checking to
be done in class. Best results are likely to follow
if the setting is informal and hospitable to discus—
sion and the group limited to about thirty.

The personal inventory chart makes no pretense
of being a means for exact appraisal. It is recom-
mended, however, as an excellent device for guid-
ing the discussion on one of the most vital of all
modern probl'ems: education for leisure. Students
enjoy making a long-time program in this field,
but a periodic checking is desirable at the end of
the sophomore year, or possibly more often, in
order to reinforce good intentions. A discussion
of this type should encourage the development of
a greater number of well—rounded students who
have more than the ordinary capacity for com~
radeship and for satisfaction in living.

 

Check columns in answer to the questions listed above

 

I 1

ACTIVE GAMES AND SPORTS I |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Archery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Badminton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Basketball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Bicycle ridinzg . . . . . . . . . . ., .- . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Canoein'g . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ; I I
Fishing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

 

Hiking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

Hockey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

Horseback riding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

Horseshoes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .. l I

Ice skating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Swimming...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  |
Table Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  

|
|
|
|
|
I
I
Golf . . . . . . .: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..| I |
I
l
|
|
I
|
|

 

Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..r . . . . . . . . . 

 

I
Volleyball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . I I

 

Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | I

 

ARTS AND CRAFTS I I

 

Carving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Cooking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

Etching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I

 

 

Knitting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I
Painting . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | I

 

Photography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |

 

 

E
%

 

I

Sewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I
' I

I

I I I I o I o o O I u I I - o o o o u o I I I I I I n o n -

JULY 1946

190 . A FRESHMAN INVENTORY OF LEISURE-TIME SKILLS-

WE“

Check columns in answer to the questions listed above

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLLECTING I I
Antiques I

n O O I o I O o I I I O I I I U O O I I I I I I O O I o I I

- l

DANCING .» I . ' |

Country dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..I . |

Modern dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . .. I ' |

Social dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..I |
Others - .

 

Reprinted [by permission from Journal of the National
Association of Deans of Women, January 1946.

RECREATION

Bob and Bess Find. a Hobby

HE TIDE ebbed and flowed
between the rocks, in
and out of the tide-pool.
The seaweed swayed to and
fro, covering and uncover-
ing a number of tiny fish. Turban Shells, lovely
little sea snails, crawled along a rock. One sud-
denly scurried to the edge of the rock and tumbled
off to the sand below, landed on its back, righted

itself and hurried off across the pool. Such fast.”

movement proclaimed to the world at large that
this snail was not a snail. This creature had legs,
was really a Hermit Crab living in a Purple Olive
shell, borrowed from a snail.

Across the pool another, a much smaller, lady
crab, was living in another borrowed shell.— When
the little lady saw the larger crab advancing to-
ward her she drew back within her' house, closing
the door by filling the opening with her pinching
claws. Behind this array of armor her bright little
eyes watched her gentleman caller. Seeing that
he intended no harm she relaxed, whereupon he
seized her hand-like front claw and they marched
off hand in hand, like lovers the world over.

Two children came along the beach. “Look,”
they said, “there’s the Museum Man. Hey, Mis-
ter, whatcha doin’?”

“Watching the creatures that live in the pool.
Do you want to
watch, too?”

“Yes, we do.
I’m Bob and
this is my sis—
ter, Bess. She’s
eight and I’m
ten.”

“Come along
and 'sit beside
me, but you
must be quiet
if you want to
. see very much,
for all the crea-

. tures are afraid _
for their lives
_and a sudden
movement or a g.

JULY 1946

By DR. WILLIAM L. LLOYD

Direci'or

Cabrillo Beach Marine Museum
Los Angeles Ci’ry Recrea’rion Depar’rmen’r

 

shadow will make them hide
and keep perfectly motion-
less. That is called ‘freez-
ing.’ ”

The children saw the crabs
and wanted to know about the snail that was not a
snail and the Museum Man explained. The Her-
mit Crab has a soft body unprotected by a shell.
All other crabs and lobsters have hard shells. In
fact the Hermit is in some respects more like the

“lobsters than the crabs, but there are marked dif-

ferences from either so that this group has been
given a name of its own. The Hermit’s soft body
is covered by a very thin membrane which, if torn,
is likely to cause his death. So, for protection, he
lives in an empty shell. The head, claws and
thorax are heavily armored so that when he is in
danger, the Hermit will fill the opening to his

' shell house with protecting armor.

Pool Life

For a while, then, the group sat beside the pool
without seeing very much life. The seaweed swayed
in the tide, occasionally exposing several young
Opal Eye, an olive green fish that shows a light
spot on either side of the dorsal fin when it is
young. The children located Turban Shells and
limpets, but otherwise the pool seemed to have
little life. They
kept very still
a n d a f t e r a
while Bess saw
a movement on
the bottom and
soon they had
spotted a tiny
Tidepool Scul-
pin which was
almost exactly
the color of the
sand.

Bob, mean-
while, had been
w a t c h i n g a
small clump of
seaweed, and
n o w h e d e-

191

192 BOB AND BESS FIND A HOBBY

 

clared it had moved. Reaching down into the
water he grasped the clump of weed and lifted
gently. Much to his surprise the whole thing came
up quite easily, squirming and twisting as it left the
water, thus proving itself to be a crab covered
with seaweed.

Bob put the crab on a large flat rock and every-
body watched him. The Museum Man told the
children how that kind of crab plants pieces of sea-
weed on its back for protection against enemies
and to help it in securing food. The seaweed lives
and grows on the crab’s back. The boy and the
girl learned that a crab’s shell does not grow, and
must be shed for a larger shell. When a crab sheds
its shell, it must plant fresh seaweed on the new
one so that it will be protected as before. Some

species of crab plant Sea Anemones instead of
seaweed.

Planning a Collection

Bob and Bess decided that the collection and
study of crabs and starfish and sea-urchins would

be good fun. They asked the Museum Man how
they could keep their collection if they made one
and he explained about curing. He explained that
the creatures should be put in a 5 to IO percent
solution of Formalin for two days, then taken out
and dried. If they were going to prepare crabs and
lobsters the legs should be arranged in the desired
position when the animals came.out of the solution
before they have become set in drying. The colors
will fade, but the animals are beautiful anyway,
and the colors could be restored with artist’s brush
and oils. .

All sea creatures with, a hard covering, the
youngsters 1earned,_ may be cured with a Formalin”
solution‘because the hard covering will cause them\j,
to retain their shape when dry. To keep the speci— y"'
men soft and pliable so that the legs of crabs, for
example, will always bend freely, there should be
IO percent glycerine in the solutiOn. Many people
boil their specimen and then try to dry it, but-
the result of this method is to lose, by decay”;
almost all of your specimen. Soft-bodied speci—

RECREATION

BOB AND BESS FIND A HOBBY 193

mens, such as fish, sea worms, and 'many other
things will shrivel when dry and must always be
kept in the Formalin solution.

In the Museum

The following Saturday Bob and Bess came in
the Cabrillo Marine Museum in San Pedro with
a small guitar-fish, commonly called shovel-nosed
shark, that had been caught from the breakwater

.at the outer harbor. They wanted to know all,

aboutit

The Museum Man used their interest .as a
starter for a discussion of fish. The guitar-fish is
an interesting flat fish. The mouth is located well
underneath the body, which proves -it to be a bot-
tom-feeder. By comparing it with other fish in the
Museum the youngsters saw that it had character-
istics of both the sharks and the rays. They learned
that the sharks, rays, skates, guitar-fish, and others
have skeletons of modified cartilage, which is not
true bone. Many of these fish give birth to their
young alive. ,Some of them, like the sting rays,
have a poisonous barbed spine which they use as a
means of defense, and some of the rays have elec-
tric batteries with which to shock their prey and
enemies.

The higher types of fish, those with true bones,
are a later development, but all fish are Very inter-
esting to study and we know comparatively little
of how they live. There is still much of great in-
terest to learn about even our more common food
fish. Bob and Bess discovered that they could
learn along with older students.

Perhaps the most curious of all fish is the sea
horse, with his grasping tail. He can twist his tail
around a seaweed stem and hold on the way a
monkey or an opossum does.

“Well,” said Bob, “how could I keep fish if I
wanted to make a collection?” A few could ,be
kept like the starfish or the crabs by being cured
in a solution of Formalin. Such specimens are the
trunk fish, sea horses, pipe fish, and a few others
like them which have a hard exterior. Others
must be kept in the solution continuously if the
Formalin method is used.

“But,” Bob persisted, pointing to mounted fish
in the museum, “why can’t Lkeep my fish like
that stuffed one?” He learned that it takes a lot
of patience to learn to mount fish satisfactorily.
There are two methods. One is to remove all the
flesh, make an artificial body, and place the skin
over it. The other is to make a cast.

lULY 1-946 I

Storm at Sea

On Friday it stormed. All day the rain beat
upon the windows of the Museum and the waves
grew higher and higher until they threw columns
of water 50 feet in the air, striking the breakwater
and eating into the beach. Early Saturday morn-
ing Bob and Bess were on the beach to see what
treasures the storm had brought in. Bess found a
bird killed by the storm, and the children came
running into the Museum to show the Museum
Man what they called a “baby penguin.” It turned
out to be an Xantus Murrelet and the youngsters
wanted to keep it. They found out that they could
learn at the Museum how to mount birds and pre-
pare bird skins.

The “baby penguin” served to introduce a dis-
cussion about birds in general and the children got
enthusiastic over the idea of watching the gulls to
see if they could catch one opening shells by drop-
ping them on the rocks as it flew over them or
snatching a fish from a pelican before the big-
mouthed. bird could swallow it. They determined
to find out all they could about the pelicans, and
their way of getting food. They followed a sug-
gestion that they find out why there were more
birds on the shore in winter than in summer,
where they went in the summer and why. They
decided to borrow their mother’s field glasses and
discover what they could about the birds without
harming them.

Shells

Later the same day the children came in with
two bags of shells that the storm had brought in.
They spread out their treasures on the Museum
Man’s desk to see what they had. Bess wanted to
know at once about two of the shells she had
picked up. As a matter of fact she didn’t think
they were shells. They were very slim, tapering
tubes over an inch long. They were open at each
end and when you looked into the large end you
found the shell was six-sided. The children thought
they looked like tusks, and the Museum Man said
that they were called Tooth Shells.

The Museum Man pointed to a clam shell with
a hole in it and explained that the hole had been
made by a Moon Snail which ate up the clam
through the hole. A large brown Moon Snail
began to thrust out its foot, opening the door of its
shell as it did so. One of the children touched the
foot and watched the snail withdraw. There were,
in the Museum, a large group of shells that liked

(Continued on page 218)

\

Maintenance and Recreation

RACT-ICALLY every city
conducting a recreation

program, at some time or
other has its family quarrel
over the use of park facilities
for the organized recreation
program. The superintendent of recreation, who is
responsible for the conduct of recreation activities,
must often rely upon the department of parks, the
department of public works or the school board for
the provision and maintenance of some of the fa-
cilities he wishes to use. As a result, the superin-
tendent of parks and the superintendent of recre-
ation are frequently in disagreement. It is perhaps
safe to say that the heads of both departments are
responsible for this lack of cooperation and each
may be justified in his complaints.

Complaints of the Recreation Department

Among the more common complaints of the rec— -

reation superintendent are:

That the requests of the recreation superin-
tendent are fulfilled after the routine and regular
work of the maintenance division of the parks
department has been done, if at all.

That the superintendent of parks constantly
"complains there is not sufficient money in his
budget to fulfill all the requests made by the
recreation department.

That the ground custodian resents the use of
field houses and park pavilions by the recreation
department because of the additional work
caused by such use.

That play areas are laid out and buildings
constructed without thought as to their utility
for organized play.

That the superintendent of parks and the

. ground custodian criticize the recreation pro-

gram to the alderman because of the extra work
caused the department of parks.

That the ground custodian refuses to permit
scheduled games of baseball to be played when
he considers the diamonds too wet and that this
action interferes with the baseball schedule and
results in postponed games.

That the department of parks thinks only of
the appearance of the grounds and buildings.

194

By D. B. DYER
General Field Assistant
Department of Municipal Recreation and

Adult Education

Milwaukeel Wisconsin

That the ground custodian
appropriates a large room in
the field house for his. office,
when such room could be
used by the recreation depart-
ment for indoor programs.

That 'the superintendent of parks and his
workers feel little or no responsibility for the
recreation program and are little concerned as

i to the success of the leisure-time activities pro-
gram planned for the public by the recreation

department.

Complaints of the Parks Department

The superintendent of parks also has his com-
plaints which may be summarized as follows:

That the recreation department has little or no
idea of the cost of the services requested and the
amount of money expended in behalf of the rec-

reation department each year. .

That due to. poor planning, requests for ser-
vices reach the park superintendent at a late

date and nearly all such work is an emergency
job.
That two or three permits are issued to teams

for the same athletic field at the same hour, leav-
ing the ground custodian to settle the argument.

That the recreation department fails to realize
that athletic fields and ball diamonds need rest
so as to allow time for conditioning.

That permitsare issued by the recreation de-
partment for the use of field houses and pavilions
without provision for proper leadership and that,
as a result, the ground custodian is caused a
great deal of unnecessary work.

That spectacular events and pageants planned
call for a great deal of extra work and the pa-
tronage of such events often does not merit the

work put into them.

That the Superintendent of recreation publicly
criticizes the parks department for failing to pro-
‘vide adequate facilities and proper conditions.

That the recreation department fails to realize
the damage done to a ball diamond if used when
wet and that the postponement of one game
would enable the field to dry before game time

RECREATION

MAINTENANCE AND RECREATION 195

for the second game; that such a postponement
would provide a better diamond for games two
and three, and at the same time save the main-
tenance division considerable work.

Solving the Difficulties

While these complaints on the part of both
parties may be justified, it seems that both depart-
ments are losing sight of the very important fact
that the facilities and recreation program are pro-
vided for the benefit of the public. After all, the
public is the employer and it is the obligation of
the employees to fulfill the desires of the em-
ployer. A good many citizens enjoy a park pri-
marily because Ofits beauty, which is due to the
efforts I of the maintenance division. However,
there are many other citizens who patronize the
parks to use the recreation facilities provided, such
as ball fields, tennis courts and swimming pools.
Therefore, it becomes the duty of the park depart-
ment to provide facilities and opportunities for
those desiring passive recreation and also to pro-
vide facilities for those desiring active recreation
through an organized program under leadership as
sponsored by the recreation department.

It. seems, therefore, high time that the superin-
tendent of parks and the superintendent of recrea-
tion have a long conference to iron out their mis-
understandings, and eliminate all of these just
complaints that one has against the other. The
public is not interested in the family quarrel. It is
interested in facilities and opportunities for its lei-
sure—time activities. The following suggestions are
offered as solutions for those difficulties:

That the parks department hold a meeting of
all its workers at which time the superintendent
of parks and the superintendent of recreation
eXplain their duties and their obligations to the
public, in an effort to make the parks depart-
ment more recreation-minded by explaining the
philosophy of recreation and the value of or-
ganized play.

That a similar meeting be held for the recrea-
tion workers in an effort to make them more
maintenance—minded by explaining the value of
parks as beauty spots and places for quiet, pas-
sive recreation and of the problem involved in
providing such conditions.

i"

That the maintenance division send an in-
formative” bill to the recreation department for
every service rendered. 'Such a procedure would
make it .possible to provide a recreation mainte-

IULY 1946

nance fund in the maintenance budget and for
both parties to plan their program and work
accordingly. If such a policy were followed from
year to year, there would be fewer complaints

.regarding “no funds.”

That the superintendent of recreation should
be considered when new buildings and areas are
planned. Architects and designers may do a
good job from the standpoint of beauty, but
their lack of knowledge of recreation activities
often results in poor buildings and areas from
the standpoint of program utility.

That the ground custodian diSplay an inter-
est in and assume a reSponsibility for the success
of recreation activities. This is possible through
instruction and an understanding of the prob-
lems of organized play. i

That the‘recreation superintendent should not
be criticized for promoting pageants and other
such events when such events do not result in
the patronage anticipated. It must be remem-
bered that the municipal recreation program is
developed to some degree through the trial and
error method. I

That the final word as to the use of diamonds,
when wet, should rest with the custodian of the
groiJnd. He knows the maintenance problems
far better than the umpires or play leaders.

That a system for practice permits on athletic
areas Should be worked out, whereby the recre-

ation department issues the permits up to a cer-
tain date each week, after which time such per-

mits should be issued by the ground custodian
and that a copy of all permits issued by the rec-
reation department should be forwarded to the

ground custodian.

.That one or two days each week should be set
aside for conditioning the diamond and giving it
a rest from use. It is impossible to maintain the
best facilities if they are constantly in use all

day long seven days a week.

That field houses and pavilions should be
opened for public use and recreation activities on
certain days and at certain hours.

That there should be a “deadline notification
date" for requests made to the park department
by the recreation department thereby eliminat-

ing most of the emergency jobs. _
That when permits are issued by the recrea-

tion department to groups for the use of field
(Continued on page 220)

What They Say About Recreation

1/ 0U SEE, books contain the thoughts and
dreams of men, their hopes and strivings,
and all their immortal parts. It’s in books

that most of us learn how splendidly worth while

life is. . . . BOOks are the immortality of the race,
the father and mother of most that is worth while
cherishing in our hearts.”—Cliristopher Morley.

“My interest is in enriching rather than pro-
longing human life.”—Ne'wton D. Baker.

“Before all things it is necessary that we should.

preserve in sport those characteristics of nobility
and chivalry which have distinguished sport in the
past, so that it may continue to play the same part
in the education of the peoples of today that it
played so admirably in days of ancient Greece.”—
Baron Pierre de Conbertin.

“Happiness is still as indestructible as sunshine.
One does not have to manufacture happiness. One
does not have to chase it in cars, or buy it with

gold, or lock it away as securities in a vault.”-.— '

.Marjorie Barstow Greenbie.

“Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,
Where wealth accumulates and men decay.”

—Oli'oer Goldsmith.

“To ‘play the game’ is no hollow and meaning-
. less platitude, but is charged with a depth and
sincerity of feeling which far transcends the baser
ends of gain and profit.”-——A. 5. Lamb, M.D.

“If we are in search of the final term by which
all our activities and all our teachings are to be
justified, we must find it among those things the
having of which is good, and the lack of which

robs human living of its value.”—Ale;rander
1M ei/cle john. '

. “Leisure may be either a bane or a blessing, a
curse to the individual and a menace to the state,

or a doorway leading to intellectual and moral
enrichment for both.”-——-Daniel A. Poling.

“The churches can bring pressure to bear on
governments to support an intelligent and imagin-

ative plan for helping young people grow in the
right direction.”—Randolpli C. Miller.

196

“Men must have free access to the minds and
hearts of one another even more than they must
have free access to indispensable natural re-
sources.”—Eric Johnston.

“The spirit of.man has awakened and the soul
of man has gone forth. Grant us the wisdom and

the vision to comprehend the greatness of man’s'

spirit that suffers and endures so hugely for a goal
beyond his own brief span.”—Stephen Vincent
Benet. a

“We need more activities that have no practical
purpose in them—things contributing to the sheer
enjoyment of life. We need them both as those
who appreciate and those who create.”—Harry

ll’oodbiI-rn Chase.

“It is perhaps true thatfin our recreational life
we can bring into play the entire integrated per-
sonality as we cannot elsewhere—and it is per-
haps true that this is precisely the reason why we
gain such refreshments in the most wholehearted

‘undertakings of recreation. Here for once, per—

haps, we do what we wish.”——Dr. James 5. Plant.

“We need places where we can go and keep a
good reputation and have a coke without being
called delinquent.”—Teen-age girl to editor of
Columbus, Ohio, Citizen.

 

“Leisure is not all of life, but it is that part of
it most within the control of the individual. Upon
us all, therefore, rests the reSponsibility and the

opportunity to create a civilized world.”—Grace
L. Coyle. ‘

“There are no children who do not like to read;
there are children who have been (and are being)
prevented from making the acquaintance of books,
so that they do not know whether they like to read
or not.’.’—Kennetli C. Kaufman in the American
Library Association Bulletin.

 

“Love, ho e, des air com assion noble as ira-
' 1 . y P
tions, sacrifice, happiness, sorrow—these are the

subject matter of all great music, and these are the "

common emotions shared by all human beings
alike.”——-Leop0ld Stokowski.

RECREATION

A Living Memorial for George Washington

 

CROSS THE BACK WALL of a schoolhouse stage
A stretches a picture of some of the country’s
great statesmen. To the right and left of the
small proscenium opening are pictures of George
Washington joined by plaques bearing coats-of-
arms. Maps'——— of the British Empire, of Russia
and France, of the U.S.A.——add their colors" to the
stage picture. Boys and girls in costume ' are
grouped onstage, ready to sing the opening num-
ber on' the program.

It is July 4, and the school is ready to begin its
celebration of Independence Day. Had you heard
the opening words of the schoolmaster they would
have come to you with something‘ of a shock. They
are simple enough words—“We will commence
by singing. . . .” But the voice is not an Ameri-
can voice. The inflections are distinctly British.

For this is an English headmaster. These are
English children in an English school celebrating
the birthday of the American Declaration of Inde-
pendence! What’s more they have so celebrated
the occasion many times before.

The clue to this unusual set of circumstances is
the place where it originates—the Biddick Coun-
cil School, Washington, County Durham, Eng-
land. In the town there still stands the old Wash-
ington Manor House where the ancestors of
George WashingtOn lived before they went to
Sulgrave Manor.

The community is very conscious of its connec-
tions with the Washington family. They are very

JULY 1946

conscious, too, of their connections with America—-
and very proud of them. This is why the school
children “of Washington in England commemorate

the Fourth of .July.

No Dead Memorial

The first mention of the name Washington, we
are told, is found in an Anglo-Saxon Charter dated
in 973. Some 200 years later a gentleman by the
name of William de Hertburn acquired the manor
and village called Wessyngton and changed his
name, after the custom of the times, to that of his
new estate, becoming \Villiam de Wessyngton. This
William was the remote ancestor of George \Vash-
ington.

In time coal and its industrial uses were dis-
covered and Washington in County Durham be-
came a mining town. In 1896 the Manor House
which had housed the squires of \Vashington be-
came a tenement for thirteen families of an area
becoming progressively poorer. So the Manor
House remained until 1934 when it was declared
unfit for human habitation and condemned. The
tenants were moved elsewhere and the building
and its site were put up for sale. It looked as
though the predecessor of Sulgrave Manor as the
home of the Washington family were destined for

destruction.
At that point some local citizens did some seri-

ous thinking and some even more serious planning.
(Continued on page 225)

197

A City Goes to Town

By EARL A. COLLINS

MID-WESTERN CITY was con-
A fronted with a problem of

providing a health and recreation program
for its people. The solution of this problem ter-
minated with such remarkable success that its citi-
zens are still puzzled over the ease and magnitude
of their accomplishments. Jefferson City, Missouri,
the city concerned in this report, had a population
of approximately 24,000 and was in many ways
typical of other towns of its size. It had a few
parks which were poorly kept and almost useless
for recreation purposes. Children played without
direction in the streets or in unkempt vacant lots.
_ A few ambitious citizens of a service club con—
ceived the idea that some kind of organized recrea-
tion should be provided for the children of the
community. The club set aside a sum of $150 for
this purpose. With this small sum a program was
begun in 1937 with one part-time supervised play-
ground. The popularity of such a movement was
at once evident and it became necessary in ,a short
period of time to expand both the budget and the

facilities.

Financing

The budget grew rapidly frOm $150 to an an-
nual expenditure of $30,000. It was soon necessary,
due to this rapid eXpansion, to find some substantial
source of revenue. A wide search was made and
it was finally suggested that a 2 percent tax be
levied on all utilities. The utility companies were
consulted and they agreed, provided the Public
Service Commission would consent to a rate ad-
justment so that the tax might be shifted to the
consumer. The utility companies recognized the
' value of a recreation program. The Public Service
Commission agreed to a rate adjustment and a
campaign was begun to acquaint the public with
the proposed plan. Since the recreation program
had already accomplished so much, it was not dif-
ficult to convince the public that the tax should be
added. This tax raised approximately $25,000
each year.

The large manufacturing companies in the city
were extremely interested in these efforts because
of the benefit of health and recreation derived by
their employees. They asked to have a part in the

program and two companies donated $900 each
year to the fund. .

198

The service club which was the
original sponsor added approxi—
mately $3,000 each year to the budget. With these
three sources of income ample funds were pro-
vided to promote a recreation program of inestim-
able value to the citizens.

Personnel

The personnel of the program grew from one
part-time director to many full—time workers. The
small beginning of one playground, open for a half
day, expanded until it involved eight large recrea—
tion centers Open throughout the day.

The city employed an Executive Secretary who

' acted as a coordinator and clearance officer for all

activities. Under his immediate jurisdiction was
the Director of Recreation, a man well trained in
health and recreation. He formulated the activities
for each center and in a general way supervised
all eight centers. This work occupied his whole
time.

At each center there was one man and one
woman whose duty'it was to have charge of the
playground throughout the day. Manual training
teachers, a drama director and a music director
assisted at each center. In all there were approxi-
mately 18 workers who guided the children during
the summer months. For the most part, these
workers were the teachers of the public schools of
the city and were Well trained in the line of work
for which they were chosen. '

The Program

The originators of this program realized the im-
portance of the task they had undertaken and
defined their objectives in the very beginning as
“the promotion of any activity that would provide
wholesome recreation in the community .for both
adults and children.” With this aim in mind they
have worked for a period of eight years.

The program beganwith games for children at
one center. The Board of Education had granted
the use of the playground and gymnasium of one
of the grade schools for this purpose. For the first
year the activities consisted chiefly of outdoor
games and swimming. As the work gradually ex-
panded there were added dramatics, recreational
reading, music and such handwork as weaving,

(Continued on page 222)

RECREATION

A Telephone Directory
With a Message

7ZeRED BDUK

' CHICAGO clASSIFIEB-IELEPHOHE [DIRECTORY

, -; - I . ‘unv'o
h.

 ‘- I -  —
e'

 i 1 '
m stoatot 

calcaeo‘s

sum PARK

‘Hf

,RECRERTIOHM'
HBIUHES

 

Courtesy Reuben H. Donnelly C or pantie»

Between April and September, 1946, every user of the 1,000,000 copies of Chicago's classilied
telephone directory, the 'Red Book, will be exposed to a graphic story of the city’s park and recreation
facilities. Through cooperation between the publishers of the Red Book and the Chicago Park District,
the cover of the directory shows a map of the city with pictures of people at play in parks and recrea-
tion areas. A black and white reproduction of the cover is shown above. The first page of the Red
Book carries an excellent story about Chicago’s reCreation program. Past issues of the Red Book have
pictured other outstanding features of the city’s life such as its transportation and its industrial develop—

ment.

JULY 1946 199

Friendly Philosopher of the.Wi|ds*

F ALL THE wild animals
0 known to me, the rac-
—- coon has by far the most philosophic dispo-
sition. He is slow, highly intelligent, ingenious;
and he accepts situations with an equanimity that
suggests ancient sagacity. He is the Ben Franklin
of the wilds.

One sunny day, I came upon a raccoon fast asleep
in the low fork of a cypress tree. He made no
objection to my lifting him from his bed, seeming
not to mind what, I did so long as he could have his
sleep out, and curled up in the hollow of my arm
like a drowsy child.

Because he accepts with admirable good temper
-the changes and chances of life, the raccoon is easily
tamed and makes an affectionate pet. I have reared
a good many from babyhood. They would sleep in
my lap or run their little black hands into my
pockets in search of peanuts. ‘

While nearly all animals in. the natural state
feed daintily, the raccoon is exceptionally careful
to keep himself fastidiously clean, and washes most
foods scrupulously. I once found five raccoon
youngsters in a huge hollow limb that had blown
to the ground. I made a little house and yard for

 

Photo by Reynold Carlson

200

By ARCHIBALD RUTLEDGE

them, but day after day they
refused to touch any of the
food I offered. They would just look at me wist-’
fully, with a faintly accusing expression on their
sensitive faces. I was on the point of turning them
back to their native wilds, when it occurred to me
that I had not supplied them with water. As soon
as I had done this, each baby daintily selected a
morsel of food, ambled over to the pan, washed the
food and then ate it. Apparently they had chosen
to starve to death rather than disobey a law of
their nature.

One day. I gave them some cookies. When they
dipped the cookies in the water, they saw the food
melt mysteriously before their eyes. Thereupon
they sat down in conference in a circle about the
water pan, and apparently came to the decision
that cookies Shaina not be washed.

The raccoon is very widely distributed over
North America, .though most common in the deep
South. He is usually found where there are
abundant streams, lakes or marshes. He is closely
related to the bear family, and in appearance is
much like a miniature bear. This relationship is
manifest also in the feeding habits of the two
creatures, for each is omnivorous. Bears
are especially fond of sugar and honey,
and so are raccoons. One coon that I kept
tethered would, if a lump of sugar were
laid just beyond reach of his front paws,
turn around and extend a hind paw and
drag it to him. '

The' Wild raccoon feeds on any kind of
fish-, fowl or small animal that he can
obtain; he eats acorns and other nuts;
when corn is “in the milk,” whole families
will invade a cornfield at night and Cause

coon dexterously breaks off the ears with
his wide little hands, with five sharp claws,
which are as skillful as a monkey’s. He
dotes on crawfish, fiddler crabs, mussels
and oysters. Sometimes he deftly opens
their shells, sometimes he'feels under the
water, hoping to find a bivalve open. Oc-
casionally this habit leads to tragedy.

 

*From The Baltimore Sunde Sun as condensed in
The Reader’s Digest. Reprinted by permission.

RECREATION

great damage. Pulling down the stalk, the i '

FRIENDLY PHILOSOPHER OF THE WILDS 201'

One morning at low tide I saw a large dark!
object on an oyster bank that had been exposed
by the receding water. It was a mature raccoon,
his right hand gripped fast by a huge oystershell.
Obviously he had been held there until- the tide
drowned him. Sometimes .a raccoon will gnaw off
a leg thus caught, eSpecially if it be in a steel trap.
In the wilds I have seen a good many three-legged
coons. These get along remarkably well, even to
climbing trees. ,

The raccoon is commonly about 16 inch€s long
and weighs from 12 to I 5 pounds, though some are
much larger. Normally the fur is a thick, soft
brown, and the tail is ringed with white or gray.
A few are albinos, some are jet-black. The rarest
color is a pure golden shade.

Stout and compact of body, theraccoon depends
more on his cunning than on speed and agility to
get what he desires. He can and will climb for
acorns, but he won’t make the effort if squirrels
will shake them down for him.

In combat he is a valiant and even a formidable
lighter, and even in a life-and—death crisis will
choose his own battleground with sagacity and de-
liberation. The dog and the coon are inveterate
enemies, but unless a dog, however superior in
size and weight, understands the crafty nature and
the savage courage of his opponent, he is likely
to get the surprise of his life.

When approached by a dog, a raccoon will try
to retreat into shallow water. If possible, he estab—
lishes himself on a submerged stump or log, so
that the dog will have to attack through fairly
deep water. I have seen a raccoon thoroughly
trounce a dog three times his size by thrusting the
latter’s head beneath the water and holding it
there, so that the dog was well—nigh drowned.

If a coon cannot find water in which to make
a stand, he will get on a log that is well off the
ground so that the dog, to come to him, must
approach along the log. This puts the attacker at
a great disadvantage. The dog is plainly worried
about keeping his footing and balance, and just at
an especially teetery moment the warily waiting
coon will suddenly advance, snarling, biting and
scratching, and in nearly every case the dog will
fall or jump from the log.

In combat the raccoon raises himself to an un-
wonted height, arches his back, makes all his fur
stand out straight, and growls savagely; and his
attack is disconcertingly swift and accurate. A
heavy boar raccoon can kill an ordinary dog in a
fair light. But because the raccoon is of a benign

JULY 1946

Midsummer has a quality all its own. Even the
people tied to the rush and rattle of the city
feel the lazy pull countryward of July's noons.
For in July a man's fancy will turn to thoughts
of those wide country spaces where time
-ceases to be a tyrant and becomes a friend.
Here are two articles which pin down with words

that warm, rich, quiet of a midsummer day.

disposition, a fight has to be forced upon him; and
if given opportunity he will make so dignified a
retreat that a human intruder feels like apologiz-
mg.

The raccoon is often hunted for sport, and is
rarely sought for food. However, it can be highly
recommended for the table. It is much better to
eat than the opossum, the flesh of which is oily.
Before the passage of the law against steel traps,
backwoods Negroes relied upon raccoons for a
large proportion of their winter supply of meat.

I doubt if there is another mammal equally at
home on land, in the water, and in trees. The coon
makes his den in a hollow tree, sometimes as high
as 50 feet up. He usually sleeps all day. In winter
he hibernates, but if the sun is bright he may
emerge, lie in a fork of the tree, and sun himself
for hours. i

The intelligence of wild creatures can be meas-
ured best by” the success with which they meet the
dangers of life in the wilderness. So considered,

'the raccoon rates high. And though he takes

kindly to captivity, memories of his old free life
still linger with him. My tamed raccoons rarely
noticed any of the ordinary noises from the yard
about them, however loud, but let a distant sound
drift in from the wildwoods or the marshes and
they would pause, lift their heads, and listen trans-
fixed to those primeval tones that took them back
to their old haunts.

What's Your Hurry? *

By CONSTANCE J. FOSTER

WE ARE NEW farm owners, and at first we were
inclined to apply all the high-pressure hurry

of. city living to our sixty acres. But Ben, our

. tenant farmer, took us down a peg. Asked if he

(Continued on page 219)

 

* From This Week Magazine, copyright 1946 by the United News-
papers Magazine Corporation, as condensed in The Reader’s

Digest. Reprinted by permission.

Play and the Players: 1946 Brand ,

LAY IS A SORT of mirror of
P the changing scene. It

seems to be one of the first
activities to reflect altering at-
titudes, new discoveries, fresh interests. A look-
back over twenty-five years of supervision of a
municipal playground system in a suburb near a
large city, has given the writer a chance to see how
some of. these play habits have changed.

Today, if you are observing a low-organized
game, watch the way every child wants to be “it.”
To evade being caught is no longer an objective.
You are out to be caught. Why? Because, if you
are “it,” you are in the limelight; you have an
opportunity to show off. What are the results?
Rules go overboard. You get away with some-
thing, you get caught, in consequence you win the
admiration of the crowd._ Children living in cities
are growing more and more bored with simple
games. They want to get into high-organized
games, into dances, dramatics ; they want to be
where there is an audience, footlights, publicity.
The teen—ager “drools” over anyoiie who has
broken into print.

Changing Attitudes

A. well-known eastern publisher told the writer
that the reason why he gave up teaching school
was because of the children’s attitude towards pun-
ishment. A popular boy, or one who had made
good in athletics, must never receive the same dis-
ciplinary measures as one who had not made a
name for himself. There was revolt if the teacher
carried through any such punishment. This is a
queer and significant overthrow of justice.

Another change in children’s attitude towards
play is their present crowd-consciousness. The
teen-agers’ Huddle Dance, held on the Oak Park
Playgrounds, is a point in fact. If the young people
come rather early, or if on account of other social
affairs, there .is only a small group in the dance
hall, they congregate outside, and wait until the
crowd arrives before they enter. It lowers one’s
I standing to be seen in a small group. But what is
more serious is their anxiety to lose themselves in
a large crowd, instead of finding themselves in
some creative activity that is done at home or with
only one or two others. How will they have a

202

By JOSEPHINE BLACKSTOCK

Director of Playgrounds
Oak Park. Illinois

chance to think things out, to
find their own skills and abili-
ties, if they keep on trying to !
forget themselves in the mob?
Play is slowly but surely leaving the home. A boy
no longer thinks of getting to know his father——
and himself—in a game of chess, a girl does not
discuss the making of a costume with her mother,
they both go where the crowd is. One wonders
sometimes where the inventors and artists of to-
morrow are coming from. Edison thought about
electricity in his own woodshed. Watts watched
his mother’s kettle boil and thereby discovered the
steam engine. Mark Twain, Lincoln, Thomas Wolf
lay on their stomachs before an open fire and
charted out new. worlds of fancy. Solitude seems
to be “out” in the modern scheme of things. One

feels pleasantly through escape, one does not exert
any muscles of the mind to think.

Current Trends

Take the comic strips, that Bible of the small fry
of today. A noted psychiatrist in Chicago says
what youngsters mostly get out of the comics is a
vicarious triumph over their elders. They have
been disciplined, something they want has been
denied them, the consequence is they are frus-'
trated. They take it out in being Superman or
Dick Tracy. Certainly some of the comic books
sold surreptitiously on news stands, are vicious
and harmful. They encourage brutality in that they.
glorify illegal methods of apprehending criminals.

There seems to be a trend toward getting away
from childhood as a period in itself, with its own
aims and activities and boundaries. Our boys and
girls are pseudo-adults. Granted they have more
courage, more poise, more self-confidence than their
ilk of twenty-five years ago, most of them have
left behind somewhere on the way manners, re-
spect for their elders, enjoyment of their own,
homes, the development of their imaginations. You\
will be saying by now that these changes are
simply reflections of breakdowns in moral stand-
ards on the part of their seniors, and of course,
this is true in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred.
Perhaps, as far as the one remaining percent is
concerned, children are writing their own woe.

( C ontinned on page 218)

RECREATION

The Organized Club

GROUP Of young boys
A averaging ten years Of
age banded together
at the corner Of Rivington Street and Lewis Street
near the Grand Street Settlement in New York
City’s lower east side in 1934. As a roving, mis—
chievous gang, this group was looking for an out—
let for its stored energies, which could either be
manifested in a positive manner, following socially
approved patterns, or negatively, leading tO juve-'
nile delinquency and Other social maladjustments
which would present dangerous problems tO the
community. A staff member Of Grand Street Set—
tlement idecided that.he would try to bring this
gang Of rufflans intO the Settlement House for
membership. As an inducement, he suggested that
the gang form a good basketball team, which would
compete and probably could beat some Of the other
junior clubs. I
It wasn’t tOO hard tO persuade the seven boys
tO join the settlement and participate in its activi—
ties. It was necessary to find a club leader who
would be able tO guide the group and present chal-
lenging situations for their development. A tem—
porary leader was found. He was interested in this
type Of work, but unfortunately he stayed with the
club for less than a year. However, the club
members spent a great deal Of their time in the
gymnasium, so the gymnasium instructor decided
tO work with them. The group was known by now
as the Will Rogers Club. This article will con-
cern itself with the growth and development Of this
club in the period from 193 5 to 1942 as applicable
tO other groups. During the period from 1942 tO
1946 most Of the members and their' leader were
in the armed forces. This period will be touched
on briefly, bringing the story tO the present when

the club is now again meeting at Grand Street
Settlement.

Backgrounds

TO help the reader get the full picture, a little
background information is presented. All of the
boys in the group came from a community in New
York’slower east side served by Grand Street
Settlement. The lower east side is home tO a num—
ber Of races and creeds. The Jewish section is
found along Delancey Street. The Italian popula—

lULY 1946

By Lt. ROBERT E. LINK, USNR
Welfare and Recreation Officer

tion lives further west.
Chinatown, with its huge
population in a few street
blOcks, is located south towards the Manhattan
Bridge, and a Negro group is moving into the
area. The community .teems and hums with a
population Of approximately one—quarter Of a mil-
lion people.

Many Of the youngsters have parents who had
come from Europe because Of pogroms, poverty,
and other similar reasons. These youngsters were
born in an underprivileged area where many of
the homes cannot give their children a better
chance for educational growth and advancement.
Social agencies in this type Of community are very
important and play an important role in the daily
lives and adjustments Of the community and its
individuals to the American way Of life. In many
respects, however, the community is homogeneous,
closely knit in its approved ways. Grand Street
Settlement, like the other social agencies in this
area, is nonsectarian. It is interesting tO Observe
that at least 60 percent'of its membership belongs
to organized groups which meet with their respec-
tive group leaders at least once a week and, in
addition, participate in all the other activities avail-
able tO their group.

Much of the present maladjustment is due to
the rapid social changes that are taking place in
every phase Of life. Social problems have a ten—
dency tO center in certain areas, particularly in the
crowded slums Of the city. It is in such regions

that gangs form, juvenile delinquency develops,

and adult criminals are found. Recreation and
character building agencies have a tendency to pre-
vent the occurrence Of maladjustment and personal
demoralization.

The most valuable asset any community can
have is its human resources. NO country is better
than its citizens. The gOOd citizen participates in
his government. He is healthy, happy, and has a
job tO dO. Recreation is a means Of building good
citizenship, health, and character. It fosters crea-
tive ability, esthetic appreciation, and intellectual
curiosity.

Every individual is entitled tO have the Oppor-
tunity tO play, run, jump, and pursue leisure time
activities. These activities stimulate the appetite;

203

204 THE ORGANIZED CLUB

strengthen the heart; improve the health; develOp
coordination, grace, poise, skill ; give one the Op-
portunity to become a well-integrated individual.

Adolescents and adults very seldom get into
serious trouble at home, at school, or while they
are at work. The leisure-play problem has a very
direct bearing on delinquency in young people.
Important in the development of the individual is
community provision~ for adequate playgrounds,
recreation centers, and other places for recreation
under proper leadership. The children “are steal-
ing apples when they should be stealing third
base.”

Character is the process of building right atti-
tudes. Attitudes are the result of experience and
through controlled experiences good character
traits can be built. Social and educational institu-
tions represent a controlled experience in which
good character can be molded. Periods of leisure,
on the other hand, become the critical times in the
making or unmaking of character. If we do not
furnish the individual the chance for controlled
and supervised experience during leisure, all the
good which is done by social and educational
agencies in conjunction with the home may quickly
be torn down.

Through a playground, community center, or
settlement house, the individual is given the op-
portunity to express his emotions under controlled
conditions. In game situations emotions are
brought into play through rivalry, success, failure,
self-assertion, ini-
tiative, coopera-
tion, loyalty, and
sacrifice. When
group rules are
made and enforc-
ed, social disap-
proval results from
failure to live up
to the rules. Thus
play builds char-
acter. The youth
of every commu-
nity should have
opportunity to
play. I

Play leads an in—
dividual into many
phases and kinds
of activity. It per—
mits exploration
of talent and latent

interests. Vocational guidance experts maintain
that it has a definite relation to the future work
life to the extent that imagination is aroused and '
ability to choose and weigh situations is trained.
This is particularly true for the child. Skills ac—
quired in handcraft are quite similar to those
required in related industries in adult life. For
instance, the Wright brothers were makers of
model airplanes as boys.

Modern life is non-creative because specializa-
tion of industry usually allows a person to do only
a part job, a mechanical job. There are limited
opportunities in the home. It is in the play life of
the individual that creativeness must be fostered.
Through play we must expose the individual to
beautiful surroundings, art, music, dramatics.
Through wellwequipped laboratories we must allow
people to explore creativeness in the many fields.
The “want to know” must be fostered by provid-
ing flower gardens, greenhouses, zoological gar-
dens, and museums.

The lack of housing, poor home conditions, en-
vironment patterns approved or frowned upon by
the community are existing problems prevalent in
many of our American communities. However,
with proper leadership, community centers, settle-
ment houses can achieve socially approved results

- A boys' club re-crea’res a ceremonial

 

Courtesy Madison Square‘Boys’ Club

RECREATION

l
l

i
l

THE ORGANIZED CLUB 205

with gangs, taken off the streets, brought into a
friendly environment conducive to cardinal prin—
ciples of education such as good citizenship, char-
acter. health, proper use of leisure time and proper
vocations.

The Club Functions

After many club meetings, much discussion and
research by club members, a constitution for the
Will Rogers Club was formed. It was the Cooper-

ative achievement of all the members. The object'

of the club shows clearly the aims of the members
(at that particular time averaging I I years in age)
and their thinking:

“To teach the members of the club to be thrifty
and frugal.

“To acquaint the members of the club with a
better understanding of the principles of a demo-
cratic state, and of how a club functions.

“To promote better social understanding among
the members; to promote social and athletic affairs
and to cultivate a high cultural level for all-the
members of the club.” '

A sample of the minutes taken at one of the club
meetings during the second year of the club’s ex-
istence shows the action and thinking of the group
at that time:

“The meeting was opened by the President at
8 P. M. The minutes of the last meeting were read
and accepted. Announcements were made by sev-
eral of the club members. The club was informed
by the athletic captain that the team had tied for
second place in the annual house track meet held
at the local park track. Max told the club that the
play contest was going to start next Wednesday,
and that the drama committee was rehearsing and
felt confident of winning the play contest. As the
club wished to get into the old business, the new
business for this meeting was postponed. The
coming Parents’ Party, and club newspaper issue
were immediately presented for discussion by
Norman. Sam, the chairman of the Parents’ Social
Party, repeated again to :the club members their
specific assignments for this function. It was
decided by a hand vote that the parents’ invitations
would be typed and mailed to the parents, instead
of personally delivering the invitations as previ-
ously desired. Refreshments, consisting of tea,
cookies, cake, candy and fresh fruits were to be
served. Morris, John, Allan and James were ap-
pointed as the refreshment committee. The fol-
lowing parents’ party program was approved by
the club: ‘Start off with a song of welcome to the

JULY 1946

parents, opening remarks by the chairman, intro-
duction of the club members to all, introduction of
the parents, remarks by the club leader, a discus-
sion of next week’s planned overnight hike during
the parents’ party as a means of getting parental
consent, a short skit by some of the club members,
refreshments to be served, group singing and con-
cluding with taps.’ ‘

“The club spent some time rehearsing the play
for the play contest. Before adjourning progress
on the club newspaper was requested of the Editor,
Jack, who informed the club that the newspaper
wouldbt: ready at the time of the parents’ party.

Motion was made and approved for adjournment
after taps.”

Projects

The club entered the Settlement House play
contest and athletic tournament during its first
year of membership. An outstanding event during
its second year was a package party given by the
club members for their friends. In addition, the
club came out first in the junior basketball tourna-
ment and second, in the play contest. During the
third-year, the club undertook many projects such
as a scrapbook containing all the social and ath-
letic events of interest to the group clipped from
the local neWSpapers, magazines, and other sources
of information. Members participated in and Spon-
sored overnight and day hikes. A'number of social
parties were approved by the club. Many of the
members became reporters for the house news-
paper and the group finally decided to mimeograph
its own newspaper for the Settlement. The fourth
year the club had its most successful season. The
membership was growing. Organization of proj-
ects became more mature and alert. The club
meetings each week were very interesting and the
100 percent attendahce record continued at all
meetings. The club continued its good record in
athletics and won the basketball championship.
The play this year was written by one of the club
members, and won the play contest in its age divi-
sion. The boys were becoming social-minded.
They decided to give a party once a month. An
average of two hikes were planned for each month.
A feeling of mental and physical growth on the
part of all members was apparent at the meetings.
The fifth year culminated with a two-and-a-half—
day overnight bike for seven of the members. The
leader took the hike with the boys and shared in
the experiences of the group. The fifth anniversary
parents’ party was highly successful. All the par- ,

206 THE ORGANIZED CLUB

ents attended, bringing a cooperative and har-
monious feeling to the Settlement. The parents,
the members and their friends came to a better
understanding of the functions of the Settlement
and the achievements of the club. Such parents’
parties tended to bring the entire family into the

Settlement House.

A most interesting and challenging project, at-
tempted with the club during its sixth year and
carefully followed by the staff members (the club
members averaged at this time 16-17 years of
age), was the formation of a junior Will Rogers
Club. At one of the meetings the club members
decided that they would get a group of neighbor-
hood boys, averaging about 10 years of age, off the

'- streets. They organized the new club as a boys’_

unit of the Settlement. Each week a member of
the senior club presided over the junior club. The
leader was always present at these meetings to
observethe proceedings and leadership traits ex-
hibited by the senior member. At the weekly meet-
ing of the senior club, the members discussed all
the positive and negative points of the junior club
meeting with the member who had presided. This
boy told his fellow members about his feelings and
reactions, and about the problems that he had en—
countered. In this manner future club leaders were
trained and leadership traits were deve10pe'd.

Importance of Leadership

To accomplish the purposes and attain the ob-
jectives of good living, trained leaders of intelli-
gence and high moral caliber are necessary. The
settlement house leader is in a strategic position to
inspire individuals with the enthusiasm to partici-
pate in games and play activities and to inHuence
growth and character development. Response to
play and to group situations in the gymnasium or
club room are often the direct result of the lead-
er’s own enthusiasm and of his personal attitudes
and conduct. Certainly the club members cannot
be expected to develop desirable character traits
unless the leaders themselves possess and demon-
strate such qualities- in their varied, daily relation-
ships with the members. The adolescent tendency
to “hero-worship” is well known.

Group leadership of youth and adults is involved
in the organization and promotion of athletic
leagues, orchestras, drama groups, special” and
hiking clubs. Its functioning is well demonstrated
by the settlement house leader who comes into
direct relationship with individuals and groups of

diversified interests and must be able to help the
participants discover interests, to introduce "vari-
ety when it is needed, and to furnish instruction
where it seems desirable, though he is often able
to remain in the background. The leader assists
individuals in getting together with others who
have a similar interest. When he offers sugges-
tions he usually does so as one of the group so
that in the active sharing of ideas the participants
gain experience. in functioning as a group and
acquire skills in managing their own activities.
This experience, especially in recreation activities,‘
is denied to large numbers of young people and
adults except as leadership is provided by the
settlement house.

Club Values

It is interesting to note that this group in its
needs didn’t differ from any of the other gangs
that have been studied. As a group, the boys
needed to share their experiences. Through club
meetings and other positive factors the boys had
an opportunity to express and articulate their
feelings. Through the_ medium of the club many
of the members were able to excel in certain tasks
they might otherwise not have had the opportunity
for. -As an individual the challenge might have
been too great, but as a group it was achieved.
These boys needed activity for growth which was
now provided through the house program. Through
the club many of the boys were able to find them-
selves and make their own niche, which might
never have been made alone. Through complex
problems in club situations the members learned
to adapt themselves to new conditions. Leader-
ship, by attaining a proper rapport between the
individual and the group, enabled the members to
meet the challenges of everyday life. Finally,
through recreation, the boredom, monotony, strain
of everyday life was thrown off and the boys oc—
cupied their leisure time with healthy, positive

factors.

From 1941 to 1945 many of the club members
were in the service, but in February 1946 the club
met again. Most of the members were back from
the service, others were to be discharged within
the next month. Four of the club members were
married. Two were fathers. Now,.in this period
of reconversion, the club is again banded together
to help each one along to his primary objective as
an individual within the structure of .the club.

RECREATION

Ways of the Bayou Country

HE ACADIAN PARISHES lying in southern Loui—
Tsiana are rich in romantic association. This is

bayou country. Its people are largely of
French extraction, descendants of those families
driven out of their Nova Scotian settlements when
they refused to take an oath of allegiance to a new
flag and a new king in 1755. Many generations of
Acadians living in communities isolated from the
rest‘ of Louisiana by the bayous, kept nearly intact
their language, their songs, their crafts, their way
of life. But gradually at first, then with increasing
acceleration, the walls ‘of their isolation were
broken down, their special culture was merged
into the more general pattern of southern life.
Five years ago few of the bayou children knew
French. The songs and the dances that were part
of the everyday life of their grandparents were
shadowy, half-remembered bits and pieces to them.
They knew nothing (except in rare cases) of the
skills that produced fine lace, braided rugs, quilts
made in traditional patterns, hand-woven blankets.
They were ordinary American youngsters—cut to
much the same pattern as other youngsters in other

‘ Singinig frhe songs of their ancestors

communities. They were, like other members of
their age group everywhere, in process of"becom-
ing “good Americans.”

That, of course, was all to the good. But there
were some wise heads who felt it unfortunate that

this good was being gained only through the sacri-
fice of a cultural heritage that was definitely worth
preserving.

Saving a Way of Life

These people, therefore, put their heads to—
gether and worked out an experimental program.
The Extension Division of Louisiana State Uni-
versity asked Louise Olivier to join their staff.
Her job was part education, part research. It in-
volved reaching out into these Acadian parishes

'for records of the life still being lived by the

grandparents of the children then in school. _,

She began with the youngsters. She traveled
from school to school and talked to young pupils
in their assembly periods. She told_them that she
was looking for old French songs. There weren’t
many of those boys and girls who could not

 

JULY 1946

ZUH [bill/'5 OF THE BAYOU COUNTRY

remember a line
or two of a song
picked up in their
earlier childhood.
Soon the whole
school “would be
singing with the
visiting lady.
When school was
out the youngsters
took‘home with
them the story of
the visitOr‘who
wanted to learn
old songs.

Their stories
served as intro-
duction to Miss
Olivier when she
came knocking at
a family doorway.
She found herself
a welcome guest
in the homes of
the shrimp fisher-
men, the cabinet
makers, the car-
penters, the small
farmers who make
up the population
of the bayou coun-
try. The families
told her of their
customs, sang her
their songs,. told
her their favorite
stories, showed her
their line hand-
work.

Assemblees Francaises A

They are a sociable people these Acadians, and
they took promptly to the idea she proposed of a
series of assemblies. The programs for these meet-
ings would come from them. They turned out—
sometimes 3,000 strong—although their ways of
locomotion were often hard. Some of them had
automobiles. But many of them came on horse-'
back or in buggies or even on foot for many miles.
They came by families——old and young, men and
women-—eager for an evening of fun.

The prOgrams varied. But each program was
planned to appeal to different tastes, each was built

 

Photo by Faum'lle Winans, Baton Rouge, La.

Try it on for size!

out of the contributions of the people in the com-
munity, and each provided for “audience participa-
tion” through mass singing.

Extra Value

A kind of plus value is added to the whole pro—
gram of the Assembléés F rangaises by the partici-
pation of 'the elderly' people of the communities.
In some cases they, who speak only French, could

(Continued on page 220)

RECREATION

 

 

Get in the Swim This Summer

version—is to be found in the
public and private indoor and
’ outdoor pools, ponds'and lakes of
the nation and aquatic sports, reputed to be the
most popular of all recreation activities, are very
much to the fore this summer.

-Whether your agency or department boasts a
city—wide system of outdoor pools, or whether
you’ve just dammed up the old-creek outside of
town for your swimming program, you’re proba—
bly putting on the thinking cap these days for
ideas to make the old swimmin’ hole more popular
than ever. But, you’ll also want to be sure that
it’s safe, sanitary, and attractive to young people
and adults as well as the scene of varied commu-
nity—wide special programs.

“Swim for Health” is a slogan that has come in
for much attention. To this, the alert recreation
'leader will want to add, “Swim for Safety,” and
“Swim for Fun.” Let’s take these slogans in that
order and suggest some means to attain them.

THE OLD swimmin’ hole—1946

Swim for Health

In your swim for health program, you must
start With the very layout of your aquatic facility.
If you’ve got a modern pool, complete with chlor-
inators, and health department approval of your
water supply, it’s not so big a problem. But for
those communities which use the town creek or
river as a substitute for the more desirable and
permanent facilities, contaminated water consti—
tutes a hazard to beware of. In this case, step
number one, of course, is to provide for a modern
tank when and if the budget permits it. Mean-
while, consultation with the state or district health
authorities will result in a reliable decision on the
advisability of using any given area for public bath-
ing. Beach and Pool, organ of the swimming pool
industry, is an authoritative source for such infor-
mation, too. Once 'your swimming area has been
declared healthy and a routine for keeping it so
has been sét up, you may begin to swim for health

in earnest.
Swim for Safety

The ability to swim well is itself a big safety
measure. This is borne out by American Red
. Cross statistics which reveal that an amazingly

' JULY 1946

By JACK P. HOULIHAN

Community Chest ’
Washington. D. C.

large number of persons drown
each year within 30 feet of shore.
Any Red Cross life—saving in—
structor can point out the reasons
for this, and also point out how certain elementary
forms of rescue can avert such tragedies, even
where the victims may not have been able to swim
a stroke. The first step in your swim for safety
proj‘ect, therefore, is setting up a learn—to—swim
program. This may be highlighted or even started

by a learn-to-swim week, but the teaching program
should be continuous.

“Every swimmer a life—saver,” is a good slogan,
even though it is an old one. Get in touch with
your nearest American Red Cross Chapter or with
Red Cross National Headquarters to find out how
classes in life-saving may be arranged—unless, of
course, you have a qualified instructor on your

I staff.

Part of any safety program, of course, is a con-
stant educational campaign to make people aware
of the dangers to swimmers and of the ways to
avoid them. Here, again, the Red Cross can help.
Play safe, and get the Red Cross to steer you on

the right road to a happy, as well as a healthy,
swimming season.

Swim for Fun

You may swim for recreation or you may swim
to become a champion. It makes no difference
what your motive—you usually swim for fun. And
there are many ways of arranging plenty of fun—
for both novice and champion—in a well planned
swimming program.

Learning to'swim is-fun. In fact, some national
champions have been known to admit that they
never had so much'fun as when they were just
learning. Now that they are championship swim-
mers, they find it work!

W'ater pageants are an excellent medium of par-
ticipation for swimmers of all age groups and vari—
ous degrees of ability. A pageant is usually a good
way to top off a learn-to—swim week, or to review
the season’s work at the end of the outdoor pro-
gram. Such pageants as those wherein King N ep-
tune comes riding down the pool on a throne
pulled by his mermen to hold court and see what
his charges had done during the year, in life-sav-

209

210 GET IN THE SWIM THIS SUMMER

ing, rhythm swimming, speed swimming, diving,
and so on, have proved highly popular as well as
an excellent frame for program interpretation.
There are many sources for water-pageant ma-
terial, but originality is highly desirable. There
are instances where, through water—pageantshthe
toughest little urchins have unwittingly become en-
grossed in dramatics. Those people with a flair for
stage properties, lighting and makeup can be in-
duced to take part in the over—all production of a
water-show, even though they be dry land ducks
of the highest degree. By all means, try a pageant,

if you want some fun.
“\Vindow dressing” is what some recreation

swimming leaders have called championship meets.
That’s true, but remember, the “champs” were
once “chumps,” and they are good salesmen for
aquatic programs — and furthermore, winning
titles, and breaking records is now their fun, even
though they are in the minority at your pool. Turn
to your nearest A.A.U. official for help in setting

up such a meet, and to your local press for the
necessary publicity, and at times even co-sponsor-
ship. Championship meets should strictly adhere
to A.A.U. rules for the protection later of entrants
who may go on to intercollegiate competition.

B‘Ieanwhile, swimming meets for the younger,
less able swimmers are also means of much fun for
both competitor and spectator. Break your groups
into junior, intermediate, and senior sections for
boys and girls in order to get the best results.
iloys vs girls competition has not proved p0pular
except in the rare instances of infant prodigies.

A fairly successful program for a non—champion-
ship swimming meet could include the following
events:

Juniors

20 or 25 yard freestyle (pools'are usually either 20 or 25
yards long. If the meet is not in a pool, rOpe lanes or

courses can be laid out)
(Continued on page 224)

Swim for fun!

f:

 

RECREATION

I
l

‘ THERE ARE many communi—

    

Recreation tor a District

ties in California just like

Hayward. Hayward is a
small incorporated town sur-
rounded by about fifteen unin-
corporated areas which directly call upon it for many
of the necessities of life including theaters, churches,
schools and recreation. ' The town of Hayward has
for many‘years provided its citizens, number 8,000,
with Opportunities for recreation. But in 1944
Hayward people began to realize that, the unin~
corporated communities having now increased the
population of Hayward’s immediate district to
44,000, no longer could its recreation program

By GEORGE R. VESTAL
Superintendent
Park, Recreation and Parkway District
Hayward, California

adequately serve the area be-
yond the corporate limits.

So, in September 1944 the
City Council of Hayward ap—
proved the formation of a rec-
reation district as providedby the California State
Public Resources Code. The city petitioned the
county supervisors for an election to establish a
recreation district. At the November election the
voters living within the boundaries of the lifteen
different communities decided by a 4 to I vote to
establiSh the Hayward Area Park, Recreation and
Parkway District. Hayward was the second such
district to be formed in the state. The first was

Pushballm-good exercise, good tun

 

" JULY 1946

Photo by Kent Studio
211

212 RECREATION FOR A DISTRICT

established at Vallejo in June 1944. The formation
of these two districts has encouraged many other
small communities in the state to take steps neces-

sary to inaugurate similar districts.

Budget and Administration

The annual budget of the Hayward Area Park,
Recreation and Parkway District is submitted to
the county supervisors for approval on May 10 of
each year. The first budget was approved on May
15, 1945 and established a tax rate of 22¢ on the
$100 valuation. The first annual budget provided
$48,631.79 based on a district property valuation
of $22,105,360. These funds provided for the oper-
ation of the district program from September I,
1945 through the fiscal year ending June 30, .1946.

On March 29, 1945 a set of by-‘laws were ap-
proved by the County Supervisors, which pro-
vided a plan for the'administration and operation
of a district program by the Advisory Board which
acts as the County Supervisors’ administrative

agent. The by-laws include membership and term=

of office of members, designation of regular and
special meetings, and define powers and duties of
the Board and district emplOyees. They also pro-
vide for the handling of district finances. In July
1945, the Advisory Board requested the assistance
of the Recreation Division of the Federal Security
Agency in conducting a recreation survey, as a
result of which the locations of playground sites
were determined and plans for the operation of a
district recreation program were established.

On August 30, 1945 the Advisory Board se-
lected a superintendent who opened the district
office on September 1, 1945. The district staff
also includes an assistant superintendent and three

district supervisors each of whom has a dual re-_

sponsibility. For instance, the supervisor of dis-
trict one is responsible for the supervision of four

playgrounds as well as for organizing and direct—_

ing men’s athletics, boys’ athletics and teen-age
activities for the entire district. Likewise the as-
sistant superintendent and the other two district
supervisors‘each have similar dual responsibilities.

The recreation district had no facilities of its
own. It immediately entered into agreements with
school boards for the use of school buildings and
school grounds. The school authorities have been
liberal and cooperative. On the other hand, the
district has been liberal in providing funds for
school grounds. The district has constructed sup-
ply buildings,.erected backstops, graded ball fields,
provided fencing and other necessary repairs to

improve school grounds and make them more at-
tractive as playground centers.

Program

Having provided funds, a staff and facilities, the
job of selecting and training playground directors
began and a district program with a wide'variety
of activities was started. Since September 1, 1945
the program has reached an attendance of- over
100,000 and is expanding rapidly.

The district program now includes eleven super-
vised playgrounds, six weekly and five operating
daily after school and Saturday. A choral special-
ist: meets with two different community groups
each week. A square dance team of two specialists
has organized weekly square dancing clubs in six
different communities.

Leagues and tournaments'have been conducted.
Over 500 boys and 200 adults participated in bas-
ketball this winter. Other tournaments and leagues
included volley ball, badminton, golf, softball and
tennis. Special activities include nature hikes every
Saturday afternoon, a craft Specialist who visits all
playgrounds on a regular schedule, swing shift
program weekly from 9:30 P.M. until 11:00 P.M.
for restaurant workers, moving pictures for rural
communities and badminton clubs for adults. Spe-
cial days include play days for girls, doll shows,
kite contests and marble tournaments.

A teen-age center called the Hayloft is open
every day and Friday and Saturday evenings.

‘ There are, in addition, four weekly teen-age cen-

ters in school auditoriums.

During the summer twelve. playgrounds will be
open daily. There will be a day camp accommo- .

dating 45 boys and girls and a traveling play-
ground which will visit small rural communities

' on a regular schedule.

Looking Forward

The newly established Hayward Area Park,
Recreation and Parkway District is looking ahead
with extensive long—range planning to make the
Hayward district a better place to live. The long
range plans, several of which have already been

started, include the following:
Three outdoor swimming pools to be constructed

on school property so that they can be used as a
physical education facility as well as for commu-

nity recreation.

A nine-hole golf course.
(Continued on page 223)

RECREATION

 

 

WORLD
AT

_ PLAY

THERE are hundreds of
clubs for boys and
girls, teen-agers or

No Age Limits I

toddlers, old people or young adults—usually,

limited at either end by an age classification. The
Recreation Department of Decatur, Illinois, has a
club where the space between the upper and lower
age brackets is so great that it is, for all practical
purposes, a matter of infinity! There were twenty—
nine peOple present at the organization meeting.
The youngest was six, the oldest 55. Common
interest? Model airplanes !_

A REPORT from De-
troit, Michigan, tells
of a feature initiated
last summer when a show boat plied the Detroit
River, stopping at four locations for fifteen-min-

Detroit Goes Nautical

ute programs. It pulled up along shore and its.

volunteer actors presented without charge a show
for the crowds on the banks.

The Recreation Department in Detroit has been
presented. with a three-masted schooner which is
to be sunk in cement andused as a center for nau-
tical crafts. The Sea Scouts will carry out their
training program from this base.

JULY I, 1946 will
mark the beginning of
a state Division of
Recreation for Ken-
tucky. The recent Kentucky Legislature appropri-
ated an annual amount of $18,000 for a Division
of Recreation to be set up under the State Depart-
ment of Conservation.

State Division of
Recreation

ONE of many excel-
lent ideas that have
come out of Lancas-
ter, Pennsylvania, is a
club designed for handicapped youngsters who
would like to work in crafts. The group meets for
two hours each Wednesday afternoon. Members

Crafts for Handiciap-
ped Children

JULY 1946

 .. “mi, it c r J

I I 1‘-
llhlllnlu

l
[1111.13.11

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

are brought to and from the club by the Red Cross.
Ages range from five to I5 years. Stories and
songs 'by phonograph and parties for special oc-
casions are “extras.”

FOUR boys, ranging in
age from II to I3

1. years, were guest
speakers at a meeting of their elders in San Fran—
cisco, California. The elders were members of the
Audubon Society. The boys were lecturers from
the Junior Museum. They spoke on rock polish-
ing, .on fluorescence and fluorescent metals, on
model airplanes. Each talk was accompanied by
an exhibit.

Boys Have Their Say

HILLTOP House, a rec-
reation center for chil-
dren and young peo-
ple between the ages of five and 19, has been
opened at Overlook Homes, a project of 750 fami-
lies operated by the Dayton Metropolitan Housing
Authority. An administrative force of junior of-
ficers has been appointed to operate the house, and
rules and regulations have been established. Spe-
cial activities for various age groups will include
instruction in crafts, dancing, and dramatics.

Housing Project Center

WORD on community

plans for war memori—

als is coming in from

many places. Here are some of the latest reports:
Augusta, Georgia——community house.

War Memorial Notes

213

214

Phoenix, Arizona—Center including auditori-
um, library, hall of heroes, art museum and
little theater.

\Vicomico County, MarylandwRecreation build-
ing,and program on an IS—acre site donated
by a local citizen.

Richmond, California—Civic Center to cover
six city blocks and include city hall, hall of

a justice, auditorium, recreation center, library,
fire alarm building, county building.

Burlington, Ontario—artificial ice arena.

Lucan, Ontario—rink and recreation center.

Pre-School Play Centers in Washington, D. C.
—VVashingt0n, D. C., has twenty-three pre-school
play centers. The total enrollment exceeds a thou-
sand children, and each center averages fifty
mothers who serve as volunteer assistants to the
paid directors. The mothers are very faithful.
Whenever, for any reason, one cannot fulfill her
duties, she provides a substitute. The centers are
operated for two hours a day, five days a week——
some in the morning, some in the afternoon. The
children are three and four years old. At five they
go to public kindergartens, which are compulsory.
School teachers and principals testify that children
who have been in the play centers are much better
behaved and better prepared for the program of
.the kindergarten than those who have not been to
these centers:

Model Planes for San Francisco—The Army
made to the Recreation Department of San Fran-
cisco, California, a gift of 50,000 silhouette-type
model airplanes. The models cannot be fiown but
they will serve as patterns for‘ youngsters who
want to make planes that will fiy. They will serve,
too, as a valuable historical exhibit since they in-
clude types of planes used in the war by the U. S.
Army and Navy, and the German, English, Ttalian
and Japanese air forces. Many of the models will
be available for loans to schools and organized
clubs.

Story League on the Air—The Golden Gate
Story League is part of the Drama section of San
Francisco’s Recreation Department. One of its
current activities is storytelling by radio. The pro—
gram, broadcast over KFRC, is known as Story
H our Program.

Insurance Plan—Milwaukee, Wisconsin, has
set up a plan to insure members of teams against

LVORLD' AT PLA Y

financial loss resulting from injuries in games,,
meets or tournaments scheduled by a public recre-j

ation department affiliated with the Wisconsin
Recreation Association. .The activities in which
participants may be insured are badminton, base-
ball, basketball, gym classes, horseshoes, soccer,
softball, skating meets, swimming meets, table ten-
nis, tennis, track meets, volley ball. The premiums
range from $.50 for volley ball to $3.00 for soccer.

Ideas from a Servicemen’s Center—A recent
issue of the S.M.C. N ews published by the Chi-
cago Servicemen Centers is remarkable for the
range and variety of activities that make up the
weekly recreation diet offered at the Centers: Here
are some of the things-to-do listed.

Square dancing 7

Voice recordings

Listening to music

Song fests

“Horse racing”

Stage shows

Pool and billiard tournaments
Surrealist party '-

Bar'nyard carnival

An April Fool’s party

From War to Peace—The government in
England provided clubs for war workers during
the war years. These clubs, having served the pur-
pose for which they were organized, will, never-

theless, be continued in the times of peace. For, .

wherever possible, they will be used for- the benefit
of adults as part of local community service.

Educating for Peace—One of the plans now
afoot for promoting education for peace is a United
Nations Cultural Center. The Center would be
set up in Washington, D. C., and would look, it is
hoped, toward the establishment of a University
of the United Nations. The movement is being
backed by the State Department, members of Con-
gress, and many national and civic organizations.

Ceilings Offl—According to Sports Age for
March 5, 1946, price controls have been removed
from a large number of sports clothing and equip-
ment items. Ceilings are off for all equipment items
in baseball, basketball, badminton, football, bowl-
ing, golf, field and ice hockey, softball, volley ball,
soccer, paddle tennis, table tennis, and lawn ten-
nis. This removal of price controls should speed

up production of these items but will also mean an -

increase in their cost.

RECREATION

\

 

ARCHERY IN OREGON 215

Archery in Oregon

ONE OF THE MOST COLORFUL of the sixty and
more activities programmed by the Bureau

of Parks and Public Recreation in Portland, Ore—
gon, is archery. Free instruction is available to the
public at a number of the community recrea—
tion centers directed by the Bureau. And ye merrie
men of England are not the only bow and arrow
handlers who have a Sherwood Forest in which
to shoot. Portland’s noted public recreation plan
provides a beautiful field and wooded area which
has been given that name. On Sherwood field in
\Vashington Park are held all local, frequently
state and northwest, tournament events.

Sherwood field is Open to the public daily
through the out—of—door months with an instructor
on duty much of the time. Instruction and target

practice are available also at five centers directed '

by the park bureau. Some tournament events are
held in the VVestmoreland recreation area of the

city also, but the Sherwood Forest range is the
focal point for archery and this area also is pro-
vided with wooded trails for shooting at targets
which represent animals.

For the quality of their shooting, even though
they may not be as great in number as the archers
of California and some other states, Oregon arch-
ers have been holding their own among the coun-
try’s foremost bow and arrow marksmen. The
state has an-iinposing list of names of sons and
daughters on the championship honor roll.

The Portland Park Bureau schedules its own
tourney events, novelty shoots and weekly get—
acquainted meets. The city-wide tournament is
held in July—this summer it is to be July 28, in
Sherwood field. The registration blanks read, “Eli—
gible is any archer who has not qualified in a'
national, state or northwest meet.” Events are
planned for junior, senior, boys’ and girls’ divi-

' sions. In the park bureau tourney men compete in

the American round events, women and junior
men shoot in the Columbia rounds. There are,
also. clout shooting‘and novelty events—relay,
balloon and trail shoots.

There is no charge for the instruction directed
by the park bureau recreation directors and the
department lends its equipment—bows, arrows and
targets for the lessons—Ruth Strode.

JULY 194-6

Center for Detroit

HE FIRST RECREATION BUILDING construction

item of the extensive postwar program of the
Detroit Department of Parks and Recreation was
"started Sunday, October 28, when Mayor Edward
J. Jeffries, Jr., broke ground for the addition of
the gymnasium unit to the Lasky Recreation Cen-
ter. The structure will cost nearly a quarter of a
million dollars and will give the well populated
surrounding community one of the finest recrea-

tion centers in the country. .

The present building is situated on a sixty-six
acre playfield which already provides tennis courts,
softball and hardball diamonds, football and soccer

fields, wading pool and play areas for small chil-
dren with swings, slides and sand box. With the
erection of the gymnasium unit this area will have
complete and modern facilities for year-round rec—
reation. The. plans call for a combination gym-
nasium and auditorium, expanded shower and _
locker rooms, boxing ring, game rooms, and ad-
ditional club rooms and kitchen.

The present structure was built from salvaged'
materials and W.P.A. funds back in 1940. It con-

tains a wood—working shop, game rooms and small
rooms for club meetings, and office of the building

supervisor. The basement has shower and locker
rooms for the athletes who use the outdoor facili-

ties.

The present building was planned as the first
unit of a major community recreation center with
additional wings to be built onllater when funds
were available. Then came the war and priOrities
could not be obtained. However, a sum of $170,000,

the estimate given by the city engineers, was set
aside for the project. At that time the unit could

very likely have been built for that amount. When
the “go” sign oh construction was given, requests
for bids were sent out. The lowest bid received
was for $242,000 and an additional appropriation
will be made to cover the difference.

Speaking at the dedication, Mayor Jeffries said:
“There is nothing that the clear thinking people of
Detroit can appreciate and enjoy more than com-
munity enterprise and community activity to make
this a better area in which to live. May you have
as much pleasure with it in the future as we have

had in planning it for you.”

21“ -4 PRACTICAL EXPERIMENT

in every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball, in-Universilies.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
mari of quality and unvarying
performance.

 

A Practical Experiment
(Continued from page 187)

Norfolk, incidentally, had been a “fair to middl-
ing” town so far as roller skating was concerned,
that is in indoor rinks which are so popular in
other sections of the country. In.any event, about
a year ago another rink was built. And, like the
other "establishment, the afternoons were going to
waste. So, again the question presented itself:
\Vhy not let the youngsters have it?

Originally, the program was designed as a sum-
mer time experiment, but it proved so successful
that it was continued through the school year.
Today, it is one of the Bureau’s most popular
programs.

For a time, the Bureau had some Lanham Act
funds available with which to pay supervisors and
monitors, but eventually this money was exhausted.
But this was no problem, for regular staff mem:
bers, assisted by the manager and rink personnel.
have taken care of the supervisory problem nicely.
Rink directors select several alert lads each after-
noon to serve as floor men. The management, in—
cidentally, accepts any expenses which may arise.

Dividends for the Owner?

“Now just what does the owner get out of it ?”
you might ask.

Nothing in the way of immediate financial re-
turn, but he knows that if he can interest a young-
ster in skating, he’s got a prospective customer in
the making. The program hasn’t earned for him
any publicity worthy of the name, but he’ll tell you
that, in his studied opinion, it’s a sound business
proposition looking to future returns.

Incidentally, he will have to wait a long time
before he realizes any returns from some of his
patrons. He’ll take them as young as they come,
and many a two—year-old has tried out skates for
the first time at one of his rinks. The program is
open to all school children through high school. In
fact, he’ll accept them from the toddling age to
eighteen.

This is no one shot a week program, but is car-
ried on four afternoons weeklylfrom 2:30 to 5
o’clock during school terms and from 2 to 5 o’clock
in the vacation period.

Many parents accompany their children to the
rinks. There are parents, who. live at some dis-
tance, who make it a point to meet their children at.
the rink and drive them home. After one visit,
they have no concern for Johnny or Mary. They
find an orderly group of children circling the huge
floors in time with the amplified record music with
monitors skirting in and out to keep the skaters
from the center where only stunt and fancy skat-
ing is allowed.

Program Notes

Each afternoon the program is varied. Young-
sters skate singly for a time, then in pairs, and
sometimes in trios, but it’s diversified enough to
keep them interested. .

The children become amazingly adept on skates
in a short time. If they are beginners there is free
instruction available. If they show unusual promise,
the “professionals” take them in hand and teach
them the finer techniques of the sport.

Quite frequently the “pros” and their students
stage an exhibition at one of the schools, all of '
which have cooperated in publicizing the program.
If one of the performers happens to be a member
of the student body—and this happens quite often
—the exhibition goes over with an especial bang.

This is a practical experiment which demon-
strates how a commercial enterprise can cooperate
with city recreation officials. The program has

RECREATION

OFFICIAL QUALITY,
y/zmw/i/W/W

Specify the omiciol CF7 or CF6
for the smaller fellows

Finest Performance
under all playing
conditions over the
longest period of time.

W. Jo.    anus":

1600 E. 25th Street, los Angeles I] o 180 No. Wocker Drive, Chicago 6 ~ mmtun

f

 

JULY 1946

218 ROBERT J. DUNHAM

been underway long enough to test its merits, and
all concerned are pleased with the results. It is,
so far as can be ascertained, the only one of its

kind now extant.

Bob and Bess Find a Hobby

(Continued from page 192)

to eat other shells, and the children learned about
the various methods used by these carnivorous
shells ,in getting at their victims. They learned,
too, that there were a group of shells that lived on
the rocks and ate the moss-like algae that grew
there. They saw how the shells, and the animal
within each, were adapted to this kind of life.
The Museum Man told them about the many
shells that lived in the sand and 0f how they man-
aged to get their meals without being eaten them-
selves by Moon Snails and starfish and a host of
other enemies. Before they dashed off to see what
else they could find the Museum Man told them
about beautiful shells that lived on and among the
seaweed and some that lived in rocks or in the

shells of the abalone. They were astonished to'

find that there was a group of shells—the octopus,
squid, paper-nautilus, and a number of sea-slugs,
many of which were very beautifully colored—
that were really shells without any shells, or with
only a little left of what had once been a shell.
When the day ended the youngsters had learned
about drying and mounting'seaweed. They' knew
how to preserve the shells they collected and where
to go for fossils. They knew that a marine mu-
seum was a place to go for fun and that marine

nature study was a hobby that they could enjoy
every day.

Play and the Players: I946 Brand

(Continued from page 202)

They are writing it with the aid of the radio, the
movies, the comic strips, the books they read, night
clubs, fashions, the fact that they are living in a
publicity-mad age. Perhaps our youth need a new
Declaration of Dependence! Dependence on the
conviction that their parents and their teachers
might conceivably have some wisdom they could
pass along. Certainly they need movies of their
own (England has them), less access to sensa-
tional newspapers and books, more attractive
homes, a wisely-planned campaign to help bring
back to them an appreciation of some of the joys
of simplicity.
Note: In spite of all this, you love them!

Robert J. Dunham

OBERT J. DUNHAM has retired as president of
the Chicago Park District after 12 years of
service. Mr. Dunham has sought to keep the Chi-
cago parks out of politics. It is generally recog-
nized that he has given the parks an honest and
businesslike administration, that his leadership
has helped in keeping a measure of order in a very
difficult situation. .

Many throughout the United States follow with
interest all that is done by the Chicago Park Dis-
trict. It means much to the park movement
throughout the country that men like Robert J.
Dunham have been willing to give so generously
of their time in this form of public service.

 

Space for Play

(Continued from page 183}

Yet, when the crowds hit their peak this sum-
mer, there is going to be a lot of complaining
about crowded roads in the parks, and. some peo-
ple will start yelling for six-lane superhighways
so that more and more people can drive faster and
faster and see less and less of the marvelous nat—
ural scenery for which the parks were created. No
superhighways will be built through the parks if
I- can shout loud enough to prevent it. Bulldozers
and steam shovels can do some wonderful things,
but I have not seen one yet that can improve on
natural beauty.

In our zeal to provide recreation areas for
America, we must not forget that our National
Parks were created to preserve areas of great nat-
ural beauty, not to be slashed into boulevards and
airports. They are not Coney Islands. Although
they give a great deal of pleasure every year to
millions, they are not, in the ordinary sense of the
word, “resorts.” They are the great outdoor places
of America, and they should be kept so.

National Parks are where you find them. Nature
has not distributed the areas of national-park cali-
ber evenly over the United States. But everywhere
in this country there are open to us, if we have the
vision to see andthe will to make the effort, areas
that can be kept green and beautiful, that should
be held as a public trust, in order to give all citi-
zens their rightful opportunity for recreation and
healthful outdoor life—Reprinted by permission
from Holiday, May, 1946.

RECREATION

 

WHAT’S YOUR HURRY?

O Marvelous sport direct from tropical Tahiti. Never before such
speed, such ease, such fun as you get with Swim-Fins—on the sur-
face and under water. Increase. speed up to 40%. Increase en-
durance surprisingly and reduce fatigue. A great aid to begin-
ners. Swim-Fins make underwater sw1mming the sport thrill ofa
lifetime. '

You're not "in the swim” unless you have Swim-Fins with
Weissmuller Swim Goggles to insure clear vision and eye com-
fort under water. See your sporting goods dealer or write. Wilson

Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York and other leading cities.
(A Wilson 6' Co., Inc. subsidiary)

IT’S WILSON TODAY

IN SPORTS

219

 

Trade Mark Reg. U.S. Pat. Office

The LAST WORD in swim fun

EQUIPMENT

 

What's Your Hurry ?

. . ( Continued from page 201)
had linished plowing the cornfield, he squinted at

the setting sun and said serenely, “No, but the
land’ll be there tomorrow.” . I

His bit of homely philosophy set me to thinking
about the permanent values of life—the things
that will be there tomorrow. Most of us pursue the
temporary interests of our existence so frantically
that we have little time to enjoy the everlasting
ones. We rush to get waited on in stores, to beat '
others to a seat on the bus, to keep up with the
Joneses. And all the time, unnoticed and unappre-
ciated stretch the eternal verities under our'in-
different noses._

The quiet of the night, the steady burning of
the stars, the laughter of children, the smile on the
face of a friend-—these things belong in the forever
category. 80 does the love of man for woman, of
parent for child, of brother for sister. Hair may
turn gray, but family devOtion makes us see those
we love as perpetually beautiful. It is a stockade
within which we are safe against the arrows of the
years.

A great deal of our rush is due to a popular mis-
conception about time. We have been brought up
on such phrases as “Time marches on.” Actually

JULY 1946

 

it doesn’t. Time stays. We march through it. Our
clocks are merely man-made devices to divide it
into silly little segments. Without them time would
still be here, the same yesterday, today and to-
morrow. '

Here in the country we live closer to the ele—
mental things, and so we soon find that we haven’t
time to be in a hurry. If we rush along the wood-
land path we might miss the clump of white ever-
lasting that smells so sweet,when tucked among
the linens. Hurrying, 'we could easily fail to notice
the tall, dead tree in the heart of the forest that
has become a birds’ apartment house.

In the general store where cheese and shoes are
sold over .the same counter, people stop to pass the
time of day. They ask if your cough is better, and

are your pullets laying yet. There’s always time
to be kind.

These are the everlasting values.

Perhaps they are our rehearsal for immortality.
For now abideth faith, hope and love—but the
greatest of these is love. Abideth! In a world of
shifting events and changing faces, it is a lovely
word. It means to stay, to remain with us.

Yes, Ben, you can sleep peacefully. In the morn-
ing, the land will be there—stretched out quietly,
waiting for you to finish the plowing.

220 WAYS OF THE BAYOU COUNTRY

TENNIS NETS

ALL SPORT NETS
o

The reliable headquarters
for ALL NETS is:

W. A. AUGUR, Inc.
New York 7, N. Y.

35 Fulton Street

Maintenance and Recreation

(Continued from page 195)

houses and pavilions, adequate leadership should
be provided and proper instruction given at the
time of issuing permits. These group activities

should not be the responsibility of the, ground

custodian. ‘
' I

.Both the departments of parks and of recreation
have a service to render the public. The one pro-
vides facilities and beautiful suroundings while the
other provides opportunity for organized leisure
time activities under'proper leadership. After all
is said and done, the function of both departments
is very similar'and it is advisable that they work
together to provide these services to the public.
Failure to cooperate with each other and perform
their duties as expected may raise the question of
whether either has the just right to exist.

 

Ways of the Bayou Country

(Continued from page 208)

not understand their grandchildren, who speak
only English, except through the interpretation of
the bi—lingual middle generation. The older folk

felt, many of them, cast' aside and left behind in a
world that had changed too quickly.

But it was to them that the program makers
went for material and for ideas. Grandparents
found that again they had a contribution to make.
Their ways and their customs were valued and
wanted and these elderly men and women held
their heads a little higher, walked a little straighter,
smiled more broadly and more often therefore.

Crafts

The crafts that the elderly members of the com-
munities had learned from their parents had, in

 

many cases, been taught to their children. Some
of the crafts were woven about with traditions that
had come into Louisiana nearly two centuries
earlier. Each child of an Acadian family was given
a dowry of blankets handwoven of colored cotton.
Acadian men have for generations worn large pal-
metto hats woven for them by the women in the
family. , Traditionally, too, each Acadian baby has
an elaborate “trousseau” for his christening day.

Naturally enough, some of the women brought
their latest handcraft products to one of the as-
semblies. They showed to others their homespun
blankets and quilts worked in the traditional
Acadian patterns, their pieces of macramé (line-
fringed lace made without needles) and the hats
and purses they had woven from palmetto strips.

It is, perhaps, not surprising—though it was
certainly gratifying to the craftsmen—that this
craftwork proved to be highly marketable. The
full sized product is valued for household use or

personal wear. Reproductions in miniature, as well

as tiny dolls dressed in the traditional Acadian
costume, are sold as souvenirs or gifts. The extra
money that such sales have brought to housewives
has been spent on “luxuries” ranging from a
permanent wave to a statue for the local church.

-New skills are being built among the Acadians
on these familiar foundations. The knowledge of
weaving for so long confined to blankets is being
applied to curtains and carpets, bags and slippers
and lapel ornaments made on the traditional looms.
Palmetto strips and the skill that worked them
into hats go now into hat bags and hand bags and
baskets and ornaments and into “stylish” hats to
fit the current fancy of the ladies. Fine needle-
work need not be saved exclusively for christening
robes. It is appreciated, too, by people in search of
fine baby clothes of all kinds in the cities.

All these crafts are time consuming. It takes

one person six hours to braid enough palmetto for-

a lady’s purse, four women four days to weave a
cotton blanket. The workers on the Louisiana
State University’s Acadian Handcraft Project are
seeking ways to speed these processes somewhat
without destroying their craft characteristics.
When they have achieved this goal they will have
added meaning to the second part of their aim,
“To preserve as a culture, the traditional crafts of
our Acadian ancestors and find a market for crafts
produced.”

RECREATION

PLAYING WITH NATURE 221

N0 PIN- BOYS REQUIRED!
NO INSTALLATION COST 0 BOWL FROM BOTH ENDS o 23 FEET OF BOWLING TRILLS

The newest and most popular game . .

. played throughout the nation: Recreation

Centers, Hotels, Y’s and Clubs, Schools and Colleges, Boys’ Clubs, Camps and Resorts,
Gymnasiums, Community Centers, Hospitals, Fraternal Organizations, Taverns, Amuse-

ment Parks, etc. PORTABLE!

ORDERS AND FURTHER INFORMATION
(DEPT. “R") ‘

*Two-WAYJHDWLING Coup”:

“4 EAST 32nd STREET 0 Telephone LExington 2-8828 0

(Patent No. 2247769)

Playing with Nature
(Continued from page 184)

feeding when they found it. They discovered, too,
that not all insects were .“vegetable” eaters. Crick—

ets wanted fruit; flies, meat; spiders, other insects; ‘

and butterflies and bees, sugar and water or honey.

After the “big game” hunt was over the children
made, in craft classes, decorated circus cages for
showing their captives on circus day.

Group Activities

Camp Fire girls laid a nature trail in the famous
Minnehaha'Falls Park. After surveying the trails,
they carefully made’ notes on the trees, shrubs,
wild flowers, and rocks they wished to mark. A
week later; they printed the trail markers and at

JULY 1946

NEW YORK l6. N. Y.

 

the' next meeting the signs were placed on the
trail. Over sixty varieties of plant life were iden-
tified by the girls.

Girl Scouts conducted a day camp at Riverside
Park, near the Mississippi River where the Park
Board naturalist met with them. Here the girls
eXplored one of Mother Nature’s closets—a lime-
stone quarry—and found rml skeletons there——
fossils. The girls discovered shellfish (brachiopods
and pelecypods), Sea Lily stems (crinoids), cup ‘
corals, snails (gastropods and cephalopods), Bryo—
zoans (moss-like animals), and an extinct fossil,
the Trilobite.

The youngsters who learned nature through
play this summer know that Mother Nature “in-
vented” a parachute long before man did (they

222 A CITY GOES TO TOWN

tggwem MATS- PADS

   

« if? BOXING RINGS

. TRAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALI.

BASES AND KINDRED EQUIPMENT . . .

designed by exports, made by experich workmen from
quality material: and sold direct to schools, coups, m.
lndcpondonl. truly wholudo.

' NATIONAL spam-s equumznr comnmr
365 MAIQUII‘I‘I 0 FORD DU LAC. WIS.

  
    
 

p Il/ew (dialog

 

 

love to play with the dandelion “umbrellas”);
they know a dragonfly is not a “sewing needle”
(in fact they suggested after looking at the stream-
lined body- resembling a plane that “perhaps that’s
where man got his idea to Hy”) ; they know they
can make little baskets and doll furniture out of
the sticky burs of the burdock; they recognize
poison ivy for “leaflets three, let it be”; and they
know where to find the odd brownish-red hoods
of the first queer fiower of the spring—the Skunk
Cabbage.

Adult Program

Adults were included in the Minneapolis sum-
mer recreation activities. “Do you know the
familiar birds, insects, flowers, trees, rocks and
fossils of your Minnehaha Park? If not, join the
naturalist-conducted hikes on Fridays.” Such an
invitation was extended to them. Weekly eve-
ning nature hikes were scheduled in 1Minnehaha
Park. The group followed the Minnehaha Creek
from the Falls to the Mississippi River, observing
the flora, fauna, geology and fossils en route.

An outdoor, evening, nature campfire program
held in Loring Park was patterned after the nat-
uralist-conducted campfire programs of the Na-
tional Parks. A “Songburst” accompanied by an
accordionist started the program. .At dark, a
botanist-photographer showed his colored koda-

chrome slides of “Wild Flowers of the Minne-'

apolis Parks.” A blazing campfire burned near by
throughout the program.

It is estimated that 4,337 persons participated
in the nature activities conducted in Minneapolis
parks in the summer of 1945. An additional 610
spectators were counted, the majority, of them
observing the program of the Nature-Venture
Clubs. Youngsters and oldsters alike are looking
forward to the summer of 1946 and the further

opportunity to know their nature surroundings at
first hand.“

 

A City Goes to Town
( C antimted from page 198)

woodwork, leather work, modeling, painting and
sketching.

Regular baseball and softball leagues were main-
tained throughout the summer. These leagues were
so organized and graded that teams for boys of all
ages were provided. The games began at nine
ofclock in the morning and lasted all day. Basket-
ball, ‘volley ball, tennis and swimming were also

'provided for the boys. Softball, swimming, volley

ball, tennis and other outdoor games were pro-
vided for the girls. The committee has planned to
extend the recreation program thoughout the en—
tire year for those for whom no regular recreation
is provided in the daily school schedule.

6

A Cooperative Program

Practically every organization in the community
was involved almost from the introduction of the
recreation program. The Board of Education
realized the educational value of the plan and
quickly offered the advantages of the public school
facilities to the Committee. Centers were estab—
lished'at grade schools and their grounds were
used for athletic fields. The gymnasiums were
opened for use as was the manual training shop of
the junior high school. A competent teacher of
manual training was placed in charge of the shop.
The only requirement the board made was that the
shop should be put in shape for the opening of
school in the fall. The Board of Education fur-
nished all lumber for the shop work with the ex—
ception of the higher grade lumber for furniture
making. All utilities were furnished by the Board.

The parochial schools opened their facilities for
the use of the children and were as much a part of
the plan as were the public schools.

The public library provided all books for recre—

rational and Scientific reading. Books at each center
_were changed regularly so that the children and

adults would have opportunity to select the type
of book they liked best.

The shoe factory in the city furnished scrap
leather without cost to the centers that conducted
leather work.

The program focused the attention of the city
council on the fact that the city park situation
needed attention. After the recreation program
was started a new Park Board was created and
two new parks were purchased -for a sum of

RECREATIONJ

RECREATION FOR A DISTRICT 223

$30,000. These parks were paid for in three years
without an increase in city taxes. In addition to
this, the parks already in existence have been im-
proved. New park benches, tables, fireplaces, play-
ground equipment and other facilities have been
placed in the parks.

Plans for the Future

Many other plans for future improvements have
been started. The City Planning Committee looks
toward the building of two new swimming pools.
The old swimming pool is inadequate and unsani-
Itary. At one park the Committee has asked for a
new building for a community center and a swim-
ming pool at a cost of $350,000. A second pool at
another park has been planned at a cost of
$350,000. The plans call further for the improve-
I'ment of the old ball park—for new bleachers
and grandstand with showers and dressing rooms
for the players. This will cost $750,000. Two
other parks are scheduled to be improved at an
expenditure of approximately $650,000. This in-
’tense interest in the development of parks and
swimming pools was the direct result of the recrea-
tion program. The city authorities realized the
future possibilities and planned this development
program which, extended over many years, will
cost $2,150,000.

Opinions of the Program

I A talk with individual citizens of Jefferson City
.reveals the extent to which the peOple have become
‘ recreation conscious. The plans to develop proper
ikcenters as outlined above point to this fact. The
"Planning Committee has outlined a far reaching
program that, if successfully carried out in the
future, will make this city one of the most pro—
gressive in recreation of any city in the mid-west.

Furthermore, the officials of the county and city
. are convinced that juvenile delinquency has been
reduced largely by organized recreation although
;it is difficult to tell what number of delinquents
'would have existed had there been no organized
program for the children. Both the Chief of Police
and the County Sheriff praise the program highly.
lThe Superintendent of 'Schools, president of the
«Parent-Teachers Association, commander of the
5 American Legion, a bank president, members of
“the Ministerial Association, the mayor and other
leaders endorse the activities and are sure that

guided recreation has solved many problems of the
city.

  
  
   

' JULY 1946

     
       
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
         
       

 
 

. DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

' Perfectly balanced for easy control. Dr0p
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe. '

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes ‘
Diamond Dou'ble Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

   

Recreation for a District
(Continued from page 212)

A study for the development of the bay front for
boating, fishing, and other aquatic sports.

Four tennis courts.

A day camp to accommodate children from the
fourteen communities of the district.

Lights for evening play at two centers.

A playfield of 12 to 20 acres.

Encouragement of plans for the development of
some 2,000 acres known as the Grass Valley area.

Bowling greens, boccie courts, archery ranges,
and a battery of horseshoe courts.

An. additional playground of not less than two
acres.

A civic center to provide for multiple use recrea-
tion and include a museum.

During the short period of seven months time
the Hayward Area Recreation District has proven
itself a successful project. It is being judged by
other California communities as a practical gov-
ernmental means of meeting the recreation needs
of urban and rural areas.

224 LIVING MEMORIAL IN BROWNSVILLE, VERMONT

Leadership Course in
American Country Dancing

CAMP VALHALLA
Near Boyne Cityl Michigan

August ll through August I7, I946

Under the Direction of GRACE L. RYAN
Author of “Dances of,0ur Pioneers.”

For further information write:

Professor GRACE L. RYAN

Director of Physical Education for Women
Central Michigan College. Mt. Pleasant. Michigan

Get in the Swim This Summer

(Continued from page 210)

20 to 25 yard backstroke 60 yard medley relay
20 or 25 yard breaststroke Lowboard diving

80 yard freestyle relay

Novelty races, e.g. spOon and egg

Intermediates

100 yards freestyle relay
50 yards backstroke 75 yard medley relay

50 yards breaststroke Lowboard diving
Novelty events, such as candle race and other stunts

50 yards freestyle

Seniors

100 yards freestyle 200 yards freestyle relay

100 yards backstroke Medley relay
100 yards breaststroke 220 yards freestyle
Low and high board diving (1 and 3 meter boards)

Officials usually include a starter, clerk of the
course, scorer, referee, judges, timers, and inspect-
ors. Useful equipment includes a megaphone or
PA system, rope lanes supported by cork, clerk’s
table, stopwatches, flash-cards for diving points.

Special events during the season, such as under-
water swims for distance or plunge for distance,
add a fillip to the regular meet programs. Mara-
thon adaptations are helpful in maintaining inter-
est of those who want a day-by-day program. Call
your marathon a swim around the city if you like,
and set a limit, Such as half a mile a day to be
covered each day for a given number of days. At

the close of the period announce the names of those-

!,

who swam “around the city. Many versions of

this kind of event are possible.

There are many possibilities for your swimming
program—and many groups ready to help you.
, Certainly, you’ll want to consult your health au-
thorities to be sure that your town swims for

 

health, your Red Cross so that you swim safely,
and your A.A.U. and other groups who can help
you plan your swimming for fun program.

Swim for Health, Swim for Safety, and Swim
for Fun. But get in the swim this summer.

Living Memorial in
Brownsville, Vermont

ESIDENTS OF THE VILLAGE of Brownsville in
West Windsor were among the first in Va-
mont to follow a movement inaugurated by the
National Garden Club of America. They are build—
ing, with their own hands, a living tribute to the
memory of those sons and brothers who left the
beautiful valley and hilltops of Brownsville to
journey to the far corners of the earth.

For a memorial they chose a project which
would beautify their village, bring happiness to the
hearts of many and, in generations to come, live
on as a tribute to those who fought in World
War II. They chose-to make a garden spot for
Brownsville.

The spot itself was easily available. They
selected a plot of land which was rundown and
overgrown with weeds. The question was how to
get the work done. For Brownsville was a small
village. Its population numbered only about 200.
There was, those 200 thought, little chance for
raising enough money to make the kind of me—
morial they had set their hearts on. But, if they
had but little money they were rich in other things
equally valuable in bringing into being a place to
mark the memory of their good neighbors. They
were rich in good will, in strong bodies, in soaring
imaginations, in hands willing and eager to do the
job.

So the 200 people of Brownsville set to work.
They planned two old-fashioned work bees. Nearly
every able—bodied member of the community turned
out—ready for work—on one or the other of the
occasions. Busy farmers and businessmen came
with their trucks and their tools. Children brought
cutting tools and rakes to cut the weeds and cleari
the land of brush and stones. Women came with ii
‘their cooking utensils and the food to make and
serve a. hot meal. Everybody brought eagerness
to the task and merriment in the job they had set
themselves.

The committee in charge of the arrangements ,
asked the aid and cooperation of the Home Bureau

RECREATION

 

A LIVING MEMORIAL FOR GEORGE WASHINGTON 225

 
   

' of Montpelier. That organization sent a landscape
' gardener to Brownsville. She surveyed the chosen
‘ scene and offered many valuable suggestions for
its use. I ’

When the land had been cleared there were laid
bare the remnants of two old stone walls on dif-
ferent levels. These served as the starting point
 for laying out the space. They were lengthened
E and steps were built to the lower level. One citi--
' zen hauled stones all day long in his truck. Others
I took the stones and put them in place. Another,
' with her great knowledge of plant life and her gift
' of organization, was ready at all times to offer
worthwhile suggestions and services.

Two men made plans for building a lily pond as
soon as spring released the soil from its ice. Two
boys designed a rustic bridge which will span the
pond. An outdoor grill and picnic tables were
included in the final plans. The old sheds behind
the church, too, will be broken down and the land
they occupied will be graded and made into a drive
and an adequate parking space.

Day long during one of the bees the children
gathered brush and placed it in great piles for
burning. The larger pieces of wood, those suit-
able for kindling, they set aside and carried to
various homes in the village to be used for fire-
wood.

This is a real community project, one in which

town and are anxious to create a beautiful and last—
ing memorial. The initial work was done in the
fall and winter. When it was finished, the towns-
: folk sat back to wait eagerly for the great day of

spring planting, sign and symbol that the time had
. come when the work on the memorial can go for—
. ward—when they can turn out again in their com-
i munity strength for another bee. Theirs is, in more

ways than one a living memorial, for their gener-

ous and intelligent cooperation is an inspiration
l

which gives special meaning and significance to
the job they have set out to do.

A Living Memorial for George
Washington

(Continued from page 197)

They felt that the destruction of the historic build-
_ ing would be a great mistake—t0 say the least—'
i that if it were destroyed “posterity of . . . Britain
and America would surely condemn this present
generation as soulless vandals.” They felt that the
building should rather be restored, to stand as a

JULY 1946

the burden is shared by all those who live in the

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .$l.50
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson . . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION. by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
CLAY MODELING, by R. R. Flore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES, byCharlotte H.Young 1.00
FIGURE DRAWING WITHOUTA MODEL, by CHE Young -1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
WORKING IN LEATHER, by Margaret Ickis . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING, by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00
FUNDAMENTALS OF WOODWORKING,

by Harry C. Helfman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street New York. N. Y.

 

memorial and a reminder of the common history
and the close links that bind America and Britain.
So it was that a Citizens Committee was formed.
Members included the schoolmaster, the town
clerk, the parson. They and their friends collected
enough money to buy the property and to make
first aid repairs. "

They see the Washington Old Hall as a me-
morial to the common history of two peoples. But
their notion of a memorial is not a dull and useless
museum piece, not a dead affair of_ masonry and
wood. They see the eight large rooms and the
grounds repaired and remodeled for the good use
of the people of this Durham village—for the
Child Welfare Centre, the Girls’ Homecraft Club,
the Social Centre for the Unemployed, the Village
Community Players, the Old Men’s Retreat, the
Women’s Institute and all the other community
groups which now have no suitable home of their
own.

This surely is a fitting thing—that citizens of
the place from which George Washington derived
his name should seek as a memorial to him a com-

226 REPORT FROM NEI’V ORLEANS

munity center, designed to insure the continuing
growth of that way of life to which the two coun-
tries he served are devoted.

Report from New Orleans

Ew ORLEANS, like most progressive cities, is
keenly interested in expanding its recreation
system. With 33 playgro'unds in operation plans

are under way to provide four more, for the use of ’

Negro groups. When these are completed, New

Orleans will boast of 31 playgrounds for white chil- _

dren and six for Negroes, 37 in all. However, our
objective is for 50 playgrounds, 40 for white and
IO for colored children, and we are not going to
stop until the goal is reached!

Wat er Activities

New Orleans is also fortunate in its swimming
pools. There are seven pools, six for white and
one for colored children. Plans were under way
for another pool for Negroes, but manpower short-
age coupled with material shortage, forced the
abandonment Of the project for the time being. We
hope that things will shape up soon so that the
colored children may have this additional pool
which is so badly needed.

New Orleans has, in conjunction with its sys-
tem, I7 wading pools measuring approximately 20
by 40 feet, one foot deep. Of this total three are
for colored children.

During the war New Orleans carried on to the
best of its ability and now that our boys are re-
turning, we are looking forward to a big revival in
all activities. One of the troublesome things dur-
ing the war was manpower for the swimming
pools. With the help of the local chapter of the ~
Red Cross we were able to get young high school
students to substitute for adults and they did a
fine job. We hope that this year (1946) will find
us in better shape to handle our swimming ac-
t1v1ties. ” .

Athletics

We carry on a strong athletic program. Each
season has its sports and all of our leagues, tourna-

ments and games are well patronized by both
spectators and participants.

other activities. Everybody wants to engage in
wholesome sport and New Orleans is “doing itself

sides this teen-age group activity, the center is

' Players under the direction of an old-time Broad-

. the war, were discontinued because of the trans- \i

Recreation "
Viewed in the Magazine. Holiday

“To GET MORE sheer living out of life itself”

“To scout into the fields of romance and ad

venture”

“If you-want to fly over the rainbow”

“We will try to tell you the fun that can be dis
covered in your own backyard”

“Where the interesting things are”

“Making life worth While”

“This new postwar..world, a world in which rec-
reation will be more 'important to everyon
than ever before, more important in this busie
world of new stresses and strains because mor
and more doctors are prescribing escape an

. fun”
“To serve this fascinating World of tomorrow”

-—Fronr1 a single page of Holiday, March, 1946
Reprinted by permission
~_——-—_—__——'__—————————_:'_______‘_'_——————__

   
  
   
    
    
    
   
 
 

 

proud.” We pride ourselves on the fact that our
athletic program compares favorably with that of
any big university or athletic club. All games are

played according to rules as are those of the major
sports organizations.

Reports from the Center

At one center, the visitor gets an “eyeful.”
Here, in this small center, are held weddings,
parties, showers, dances and what have you. The
old folks, ranging in age from 60 to 90 years use
the center for their activities.

At a center on the west bank of the Mississippi
River activities are buzzing. Here the director
has his hands full with the organization of the
Teen-age Canteen which is proving very success-
ful. More than 250 youngsters are enrolled. Be-

also the home of a Little Theater where many fine
plays are presented by the Behrman Memorial

way actor who knows his drama. Of course, be-
sides this there are other activities such as sports,
basketball, volley ball, softball and gymnastics.
During the war the Navy took over the center,\
which is located across from the Naval Repairl
Base. However, plans are on foot now to turn
the building back to the Playgrounds Commission.

Toward the Future

Outdoor picnics, which were very popular before

RECREATION

THE PIONEER SPIRIT—GEORGIA STYLE 227

portation problem. They will be back this fall.
When Mrs. Olive A. Stallings, President of the
Playground Commission from 1911 to the time of
her death, died five years ago, she left a legacy to the
Playgrounds Commission amounting to more than
$100,000 and plans will soon be formulated for an

extensive program ‘to provide” additional facilities.
—L. di Benedetto

The‘ Pioneer Spiri’r—
Georgia Style

5 A GAME PRESERVE on private lands within the
I reach of modest landowners?

It depends—0n them.

When a group of Georgia farmers approached
the state conservation official with a request for
help in establishing a game preserve on their own
land,- the official was ready with the discouraging
explanation he and other game authorities had pre-
sented time and again to aspiring hunters. These
farmers looked determined—but so-had others who
came to the Game Commission office and who,
after hearing the steps they themselves must take
before the Commission could help them, left dis-
consolately with their stillborn hopes of a fish and
game project.

Not so the men from Paulding County. They
just reckoned that with a little help from the Game
Commission they could have as good hunting in
their county as anyone anywhere, they’d consid—
ered the proposition from all angles—and there
they were to present their case.

Deer require a lot of land, began the conserva— .

' tion official. W e—ll, the Paulding Club had
192,000 acres. '
But all the landowners must sign an agreement
to put the land in a game preserve until the deer
and turkeys are established. Out of a weathered
jacket pocket came a .paper crudely but. firmly
pledging the landowners to allow no hunting of
any kind for five years, to help prevent forest fires
and to give the Game and Fish Commission and
the owners full jurisdiction.
I A map showing ownership, roads, streams and
cultivated land? There it was, neatly and accur—
ately drawn up, with the help of the county agent.
So far so good—~but unfortunately the Commis—
sion had no money to purchase deer for private
lands. The practical farmers took that hurdle
easily. They’d canvassed the county and raised
$1,300 to buy deer and turkeys.

JULY 1946

RAMIJC

trade-Marl Reg. U. 5. Patent Office
AMERICA'S No. l SWIMMING POOL ENAMEL

'l'wo indispensable products for

swimming pools to insure Maximum
Beauty, Visibility and Protection:

RAMUC Enamel imparts a tile-like,
easy-to-clean finish which does

not chip, crack or peel. Applied
like paint.

EXALGAE prevents algae growth
in pools. Economical and easy to

use. Keeps water sparklingly
clear at all times.

For complete information, write to

INERTOL CO., INC. - DEPT.R

1170 FRELINGHUYSEN AVENUE
, NEWARK 5, NEW JERSEY

Western Branch:
64 South Park, San Francisco 7, Calif.

EXALGAE

'Irodo-Morl Reg. U.'S. Potent Office

A NEW, SAFE, EFFECTIVE ALGAECIDE

 

' Nor did they expect the state to furnish rangers.
F we of the landowners were willing to serve with—
out pay as deputy game wardens.

The Game Commission official capitulated.

\

Several days later the men purchased 25 deer
and turned them onto the tract. They bought 100
wild turkey eggs and hatched them in an incubator.
All laboring arduously in a common cause, the

farmers rid 300 square miles of Wildcats, skunks,
foxes and opossums.

After the deer and turkeys had been given their
start the Game Commission was approached for
trout. Doubtful that these cold—water fish would
survive in the streams of Paulding County, the
Commission nevertheless gave the persistent Club
members 20,000 rainbow trout for experimental
purposes. The men, aided by the county agent,
had taken temperature readings of three creeks
every week the summer before, and they were not
surprised that the fmgerlings flourished in the
clear, cool streams running out of the foothills.

Luck? Oh, no. These men planned and worked

228 MOTION PICTURES AND AMERICAN CULTURE

and pulled together to fulfill the dream of a game
preserve that would bring happy hours in the

years to come.—Adapted from “Christmas Buck,” by
Charles N. Elliott, published in American Forests, De-
cember 1945. The adaptation was made with the permis-
sion of the author and publishers.

Motion Pictures and ‘
American Culture

- (Dr. Eastman, widely known as a constructive critic of
motion pictures, is Professor of Biography and Drama
in the Federated Theological Faculty of the University

of Chicago and author of Plays of American Life, M en
of Power, Books That Have Shaped the World.)

OMMERCIAL MOTION PICTURES are produced
for entertainment. But While they entertain
they also educate for better or worse. During the
two or three hours we spend in a theater, we sit
under the spell of the most powerful educational
instrument ever invented—an instrument which
not only entertains us but shapes our minds, stirs
our emotions and affects our ideas about life, our
patterns of conduct and our character values.
That’s why the movies are the concern of edu-
cators, ministers and all others interested in the
future of mankind.

When the picture is of the quality of “The Lost
Weekend,” “Our Vines Have Tender Grapes,”
“Madame Curie,” “The Song of Bernadette,”
“Holy Matrimony” or “Lost Angel,” the effects
are constructive. When the picture is steeped in
sentimentality, glorifies the acquisitive instincts, or
inculcates false views of,life, the effects are de-
structive. During the past year, not more than
5 percent of the pictures could be classed as excel-
lent. When we consider that the average attend-
. ance in motion picture theaters in this country is
about 85,000,000 per week—or more than double
the attendance in all our churches, Catholic, Pro-
testant and Jewish, we realize that more. pe0ple
will see the next picture featuring any popular
movie star than have seen Shakespeare’s “Hamlet”
0n the stage since “Hamlet” was written.

The battle for decency in motion pictures has
been won. But decency is not enough; it means
only the absence of dirt. A picture can be decent
and still be inane, stupid and worthless. We want
something more positive. We want honest pictures
——-honest about the struggles of our daily lives. We
want pictures that help us not to escape from life

but to understand it. We want pictures that neither
misrepresent us to the other peoples of the world
nor misrepresent them to us. We want pictures
with some touch of greatness, strong in character—
ization, in imagination, and in humor. Such
pictures will have both entertainment quality and
educational value. ‘

Censorship will not bring us such pictures.
Political censorship is always dangerous to the
liberties of a free people. But thereIis another kind
of censorship quite as bad—it is commercial cen-
sorship. That’s the kind that makes the only cri-
terion for success the net financial profit, not what
a writer, or an actor, or a director can contribute
to the welfare of the people as a whole, but how
much money his name can earn for the profits of a
few. That kind of censorship—commercial—stifies
the artist and robs the public.

How then are we going to get pictures of higher
quality to serve our postwar entertainment and
educational needs? The answers sift down to
these: First, we can select our own pictures—and
we can help our children select their pictures—
with more care, patronizing the best and boycot-
ting the rest. Second, we can introduce into more .
of our schools classes in motion picture discrimina-
tion so that young pe0ple will build up in their
own minds inner tribunals by which they can judge
intelligently the quality of the writing, the acting,
the photography and the direction of a picture.
Third, we can. have a wider discussion in maga—
zines and public forums to acquaint the people
with the social issues involved in the motion pic-
ture situation. Fourth, the producers can help “
greatly if they will serve not only the 16,000
American theaters with 35 mm. films but also pro-
vide 16 mm. films (under whatever restrictions
are necessary to protect the interest of theater own—
ers) for some I 50,000 schbols and churches that
need to utilize the powerful medium of motion
pictures in their educational work. The producers

' ' proved that they could provide such pictures for

the Army and Navy training programs. A still
wider field awaits them in peace times. '

Underlying these proposals is the earnest desire
that the producers may become increasingly the
allies of'our homes and schools and churches in
our common task of building a better country and
a better world—Fred Eastman.

Reprinted from Motion Picture Letter, April 1946.

RECREATION

MUSIC FESTIVAL 2229

Music Festival

VERYONE INTERESTED in the progress of fine
E music as a concern of the many rather than the.
possession of thefew will rejoice at the revival on
its prewar basis of the famous Cincinnati May
Music Festival, held annually in that city since
1873. In the war years there were necessarily cur-
tailments, but these were more than compensated

'for at the “Victory Festival.”

The chief attraction was, as always, the great
May Festival Chorus, which has presented many
of the noblest works of Bach, Handel, Beethoven,
and other composers. In the early years of the
Festival the vocal ensemble was formed by com-
bining various singing societies, but as the pro-
gram became more ambitious that method was
abandoned in favor of a permanent membership

organization.

A large children’s chOrus has shared honors with
the adult singers from the beginning of the Festi—
val and have graduated from simple songs learned
in school to the performance of the best music
suited to child voices. The youngsters respond
eagerly to the good leadership which is provided,
and have won a high place in the affection and
regard of the great audiences which fill Music Hall
to overflowing at each program of the Festival
series. A new feature this year was a chorus
from the high schools, so that all ages will be more
adequately represented.

Musical Director of the Festival for the eighth
time this year is, Eugene Goosens. He is one of a
line of famous conductors who have held this office
since the pioneer days of Theodore Thomas. The
soloists, too, have been of stellar rank, and are
so again this spring. But the backbone of the FesL
' tival is the participation of the great numbers of
Cincinnati’s pe0ple who love to join in the pro-
duction of good music and who find in it a stimu—
lating and richly satisfying form of recreation.
Often two, and even three, generations of the same
family have members in the chorus.

A custom for helping with the expense of the
Festival is an auction sale of seats a few weeks
in advance of the opening date. It is not really
seats which are sold in this way but rather priority
in the choice of a certain number of season tickets:
Each year the bidding nets a substantial sum
toward defraying costs.

JULY 1946

  
 
   

64am RAWLINGS
deity; ATHLETIC GOODS

4M 8% SM
Available from

Leading Athletic Goods
Distributors

MANUFACTURING IIII.

  

ST. LOUIS ° MISSOURI

Joy In a Hobby

By SIMON S. PALESTRANT

NOT LONG AGO, while I was helping a recuperat—
ing G.I. to' putter about in an Army Base
Hospital workshop, I heard him say that it was
fun to make things. Heretofore he had worked on
a farm and for recreation had gone out with the
crowd and made “plenty of noise” as he described
it, and called it fun. But now, when he got home
he said he planned to find some craft' and take it
up as a hobby. For that was nowhis idea of fun.
It was a sad commentary on a life, that a man
passed through one half of it before he found this
out.

I got interested in hobbies when my Dad gave
me some of his castoff tools. \Vatching Dad putter
about the house, I felt the urge to own, to repair,
to imagine, to create. It has made me the chief
gadgeteer in my community.

From the time I was a boy I have followed
many hobbies, until now one might call me a Jack-
hobbyist. Essentially, I seek pleasure in creating
and re-creating. Some of my hobbies have been

230 IN PEACE AS IN WAR

In Peace as in War

. ARK CIRCLE USO, North Charleston, South

P Carolina, operated by the National Board of
'the Young Women’s Christian Association as an
industrial military designation terminated its ac-
tivities February 26. The building, a Federal, A-
type recreation structure was purchased by the
Cooper River Park and Playground Commission
under the direction of Mr. Daniel Jones. Activities
started by the USO and the general programs
other than military will be continued under the
direction of USO. During wartime and following
the declaration of peace, the following civilian or-

ganizations were among those which used Park .

Circle as a general meeting place.
Girl Scouts Naval Shop Planners Union

Golden Glove Woodmen of the World
Paper Makers Union Jaycees

American Legion Veterans of Foreign Wars
Iron Moul-ders Union Painters Local Union

These organizations continue to use the building.

A teen-age club was started by the USO with
the aid of the Parent-Teacher Association. The
club has a membership of over 200 teen-age boys
and girls who meet at Park Circle every Saturday
night as Well as during the day. The teen-age
club is also continuing with the professional lead-
ership of the local Y.W.C.A., sponsored by the

PTA. Council. The Junior Hostess organization '

has become a girls’ club sponsored by the local
Y.W.C.A. USO staff members worked several

months with the director of the Park and Play-
ground Commission dovetailing activities, so that
there will be no noticeable break when USO
leaves the community—Elizabeth Dickey.

relegated to the limbo of the past while I still

indulge in a dozen or so other hobbies, concur-I

rently and alternately.

For instance, at one time, I sketched and. painted,
my training previously having been scientific and
mechanical, and then I tried my hand profession-
ally at it. I reached the status of “commercial
artist.” Then metal craft fascinated me. I scraped
and dug through tons of texts and designs and
techniques. This research carried me into allied
crafts of wood, leather, plastics, textiles and ce-
ramics. I have created as amateur and professional
in each of these fields, even to the extent of in-
venting special techniques and tools to use. The
.mountainous notes I gathered, gradually crystal-
lized into articles since published in various trade

and technical magazines. In connection with some
of these projects, I indulged in photography. This,
now, is my most absorbing hobby, though car-
tooning, craftwork or sketching often claims my
spare time.

The most satisfying use to which I’ve put my
knowledge of hobbies was to work with returning
veterans at an Army hospital as a recreational
therapist. It was a fruition of hopes and plans
that had long sought a grand realization.

Teaching craftwork at camps, recreation centers,
hospitals, and in Sunday schools has made me ap-
preciate that life could be an interesting hobby in
itself. It has brought me in contact with people of
all ages, means, creeds and races and has tended
to keep life fresh for me as well as adventurous.
To my mind, only a person with a hobby is living
life fully. That is why I feel it is of the utmost
importance for parents to encourage their children
to discover hobbies. — Reprinted by permission
from Parents’ M agazz'ne, April 1946.

Vermont's Swimming
Program

” ' WIMMING WITH A PURPOSE” has taken on a
new meaning in Vermont because of the
Water Safety Institute held last summer from July

9-14.

It came about as a result of a study which
showed inadequate provision for water safety in-
struction in many communities. The result was the
Institute conducted by the American Red Cross
Water Safety Field Staff and organized by the
Vermont Director of Recreation. Local Red Cross
Chapters and local recreation committees cooper-
ated, and'sixteen communities registered 33 young
people, 23 of whom completed the week’s course.

The Burlington Park and Recreation Depart-
ment arranged for the use of their facilities at Bur-
lington’s North Beach on Lake Champlain. The
Lodge served as headquarters for meals and semi-‘
nars, and tents were set up for those attending.
The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation ar-
ranged for bountiful breakfasts at cost, while the
Canteen Corps of the Chittenden County Chapter
of the Red Cross served the lunches. The cost for
the two meals was $1.00 or $1.10. For those wish-
ing to provide their own meals, lireplaces and pic-
nic sites were made available. The registration fee
was $1.00. '

RECREATION

MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS 231

“We are face to face with the biggest boom in recreation the world has ever seen.”
——Harold L. Ickes. (See “Space for Play” in this issue.)

Watch the boom develop!

Subscribe to

RECREATION,

the oflicial organ of the national recreation movement

Enter your subscription NOW.

RECREATION

315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.
Please send me RECREATION for one year beginning with the ............................ ..

issue.

Name ................................................. ..

Street and Number ....................... 
City and State .................................. ..

' Date ............................................................... ..

[:1 Check or money order for $3.00 enclosed.
E] Send bill for $3.00

I I I I I a n O I c a I I - - - - a a I I I I I - - a u I - - - c c - I o - - c I c n I u u I n n a o I n I y a I - I o I u u c c u u u c c .-

v v c c I u I I u I I I I I I I c I o c I c I I a - - - g a . - - c n c c u . 4 o o . . - - a - I - a u - - - u - u I I I c I c n I u c g o II

u u I u c c c u u c n n I c I n n I n I I I I I I I I o I u u c u u 4 I n I n a o u I I I - a u I a - - - - u u g o I I n c I u u u o I n I In

Use the subscription blank below.

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of I
l Current Interest to the Recreation Worlter

 

MAGAZI N ES

Parks and Recreation, May-June 1946

Some Aspects of Post-War Golf Course Mainte-
nance, George B. Caskey

Light for the Community Playlield, R. J. Swack-
hamer

Organizing Recreation in a Small Community, D. B.

' Dyer

Use of State Parks During War Time

The Camp Fire Girl, June 1946
Summer Fun—Homespun, Helen S. Spencer
' Join Hands and Dancel Walter Terry

Public -Management, May 1946 ,

Relation of City Manager to Independent Boards and
thces

Minnesota Municipalities, May 1946
Recreation in Minnesota Communities, Gerald B.
Fitzgerald

Camping Magazine, April 1946
Over a Million Camping Days for the Children of
Greece, Catherine T. Hammett
Junior Goes to Camp, S. Theodore Woal
Camping in Michigan—Next Steps of Kellogg Foun-
dation, Hugh B. Masters '
Making the Most of Your Insurance, Michael Levy

'JULY 1946

 

Magazine Digest. June 1946
There Are No‘Idle Hours in Milwaukee, Ben Blake

Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1946
Sports for the Handicapped, Lt. Comdr. J. M. Beam
A Pupil-Directed Playground, H. Louise Cottrell

H ygeia, June.1946
Toys Children Prefer, Lois Kyper Ide

Scholastic Coach, May 1946
Emotional Problems in Athletics, John G. Freuden-

berger

Holiday, June 1946
Look Again, Dorothy Thompson
Vinegar, Mustard, Popperl Maria Caporale
Village of Stars, Francis X. Martinez

The Lion, May 1946
Packing Them In, William H. Moran, Jr.

The National Elementary Principal, June 1946
The Play School and Its Program, Rowena M.
Shoemaker and Doris L. Bock

George Williams College Bulletin, May 15, 1946
Learninng from the War Experience, H. D. Edgren

PAMPHLETS

The Rural South—.4 Reading Guide for Community
Leaders
The Southern Rural Life Council, George Peabody
College for Teachers, Nashville 4, Tennessee

Children’s Theatre Catalogue .
Association of Junior Leagues of Amenca, Inc., The
Waldorf Astoria, New York 22, New York

Becoming What They Will Be 0
Youth Agency—Labor Union Cooperation '
Associated Youth Serving Organizations, Inc., 134
East 56th Street, New York 22, New York

New Publications in the LeiSure Time Field

 

Three Aids to the Craftsman

GENERAL SHOP WOODWORKINO, by Verne C. Fryklund and
Armand J. LaBerge. McKnight and McKnight, Pub-
lishers, Bloomin-gton, Illinois. $.80.

GENERAL LEATHERCRAFT, by Raymond Cherry. McKnight
and McKnight, Publishers, Bloomington, Illinois. $1.20.

GENERAL PLASTICS, by Raymond Cherry. McKnight and
McKnight, Publishers, Bloomington, Illinois. $1.20.

HERE ARE THREE BOOKS which, though they are not new,

may have escaped the‘ attention Of craft leaders. They
are well worth adding to the craft library—-for their
general information about the crafts they discuss, for
their clear instructions and excellent illustrations, for the
designs and patterns included, and for the high standard
of finished product illustrated. Recommended.

Introduction to Exceptional Children

By- Harry J. Baker, Ph.D. The Macmillan Company,
New York. $3.50.

CHILDREN WHO, because of physical or nervous handi-
caps, educational retardation, sub—normal intelligence
or unusually high mental gifts, are classified as excep-
tional need exceptional handling in their formative years.
Introduction to Exceptional Children undertakes to point
out some of the things that anyone who is apt to come
in contact with such youngsters should know. Though
the book is aimed primarily at teachers and teachers-to-
be, it should also be valuable as a reference for many
other classes of people who deal with young people.

Leisure Time Education

By Anna May Jones. Harper and Brothers, New York.
$2.25.

HIS PUBLICATION is a. guide to teachers and group

leaders in helping students discover special interests
and develop skills and attitudes for the enjoyment of
their leisure hours, in revealing leisure time opportunities
in the school and community and in aiding students in
selecting and developing suita‘ble lhobbies and talents.

Miss Jones has made a valuable contribution to the
literature in the leisure time field through her forty-four
outlines for discussion of topics related to various aspects
of leisure. Each of the outlines indicates its aim, prepara-
tion suggested, suggestions for students’ discussion, de-
sira'ble procedures, suggested activities and references to
appropriate literature. Although related primarily to stu-
dents, this outline should 'be exceedingly helpful to any
group in preparing a series of discussion meetings in the
field of recreation.

Elsewhere in the volume, Miss Jones points out the
relationship of leisure time education to the school cur-
riculum, offers suggestions for the development of hobbies
and talents, and outlines the possibility of after—school
programs. Especially valuable is the section relating to
leisure time education and the community. Methods of
individual guidance in the selection of leisure time ac-
tivities and methods of administering and evaluating
leisure time programs are suggested. The volume includes
a comprehensive and up-to—date bibliography.

232

Fundamentals of Wood Working

By Harry C. Helfman. MSR Publishers, Inc., New
York. $1. ‘

HERE IS A PICTURE-TEXT BOOK for the beginning crafts—

man. According to the foreword the projects de—
scribed “were all worked out with groups of different
age levels,” and are “planned so that the reader may'

'start with a simple project and gradually gol'on to more

difficult ones as his skill improves with practice.” As each

project increases in difiiculty so do the tools required, so

that a description of the tools and of how to use them»
serves as a Springboard tO each new activity.

Adventures in Thrift
By Harry C. .McKown. School Activities Publishing CO.,
Topeka, Kansas. $2.
HE PURPOSE OF THIS BOOK is to suggest a program of
discussions on thrift in its many aspects tO be used in
schools or in club meetings. The material is presented in
the form of discussions in imaginary groups made up of
boys and girls and led by an adult. The data for discus-
sion is non-technical, geared to the experience of
youngsters. ‘

Life in Montana

Prepared by the Montana Study of the University of
Montana. Montana State Un1vers1ty, Missoula, Mon—
tana.

THIS IS THE FIRST PART of a two-part study plan to be

used by study groups interested in life in small com—
munities of Montana. The course is set up in ten sec—
tions dealing with regional, economic, social and cultural
problems Of the small community. The community taken
as a basis for study is Lonepine.

 

 

Officers and DirectOrs of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board Of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President .

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.

HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.

HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla. -
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho; L. I., N. Y.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass. ,‘
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscan, Ariz. \
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.

H. McK. LANDON, Indianapolis, Ind.

SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.

OTTO T. MALLERY,.Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. SIOMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. ,Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, \Vashington, D. C.

a

