Making Men

HE FIRST TASK in America is the making of men—not building

houses, ships, factories, making money. All these are secondary
to helping boys to grow up to be men, girls to grow up to be real
women. We have to make the world in our neighborhoods a place

that is congenial to boys and girls, that is fitting for the men and
women they are to become.

It is in play and recreation that boys and girls test their power,
discover themselves. True, they live as they go along, but constantly

they are becoming in their play the persons they are to be, just as
tadpoles grow into frogs.

No boy should grow up without a chance to know birds, to
climb trees, to fly kites, to play marbles. A boy has not quite lived
until he has batted out a home run. What kind of a boy is it that
has never learned to skate? Of course a boy is always going to feel
he has been cheated if he has never learned to swim, and there are
still a few who have not. The boy who does not have a memory of
flying through the air bareback on a horse that enjoyed the run as
much as he did, has been cheated by life. Certainly it is a most
terrible thing when children's feet, that were meant to dance and
skip, drag along—when the bodies develop no sense of rhythm. Of
course the child does not want to know anything about rhythm.
but his feet are light and skim the ground when he is light—hearted
and happy and the glorious day is before him.

 

Something dies within him and is buried in sickly fashion if
the boy never learns to let his voice peal out in song. Perhaps the
boy who does not sing does not know what is the matter with him.
but it is a little like cutting the tongue out of a,child. There is some-e
thing wrong, because he just never learned to let go, to let joy come
out in song. Partial men and women are never quite satisfactory to

themselves, an'd,they tend to take out their dissatisfaction on those
about them.

‘

It really does pay to let children have full opportunity to sing.
totrun-and skip, to skate, to swim, to bat, to do all that may become
a’child who wants some day to become a full man or woman, not
just-a fractional, crippled person who hobbles along through the

leisure hours of life because part of him or her was not given an
opportunity to be used.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

MARCH I946  -- - j 2::

617

Milwaukee Journal Pluto '

RECREATION

 

The Challenge to Leisure in a
World of Abundance

Opening Remarks at the Twenty-eighth

National Recreation Congress

'1‘ THE VERY opening of this
Congress shall we not call

for a moment of silence, in thanksgiving for

those who have returned from the war, in memory
of those who lie in foreign graves, in thought for
those who are still in the hospitals, in dedication
to the effort to make the plan for the nations work-
ing together successful—a prayer that we may do
our part there, too. Shall we unite in rising for
a moment's silent prayer.

(The entire Congress rose for a moment of
silent prayer.)

It is now nearly forty years since a group like
this one first gathered to consider the whole prob-
lem of recreation in the United States. Probably
never before has there been a time when it was so
important to have such a meeting as it is this year.
Some representatives have been coming together
most of these years since May, 1906, and a great
deal has happened, but the whole tempo of our
modern world has been changed by a number of
things recently, and I wanted to speak for just a
moment about what the atomic bomb is bringing
home to all of us.

This invention, it seems to me, has made it im-
portant that we should create throughout the world
a very strong will to live, and that we should do all
we can to make life extremely interesting and chal-
lenging. This is not a time for cynicism, for bore-
dom, for thin living, for being tired of living, for
life that is stale, flat, and mediocre. It was here in
Atlantic City that Dr. L. P. Jacks, then President
of Manchester College, Oxford, sitting in by
chance at a meeting of this kind said, “It seems to
me that what your group is doing is the most im-
portant thing in all the world.” I said, “Dr. Jacks,
why do you feel it is so important?” “Because,”
he said, “here you are discussing the thing that
really matters. After we have earned our food and
clothing and shelter, what is it we dream of for our
Utopias? \Vhat is'it we care most for? It seems

MARCH 1946

By HOWARD BRAUCHER

.

to me you are trying to answer
this question. I’d rather work on
this problem than anything else in the world.”
That was the editor of the H ibbert Journal,,per-
haps as intellectually distinguished a journal as
there is, and we all know how for a year Dr. Jacks
traveled across the country speaking on this sub-
ject of abundant living, trying to do what he could
to help the cities and the villages and towns of
America work out the problem of the use of leisure

time.

With the discovery of the atomic bomb, it seems
even more important than before that we should
face what we can do to contribute to making the

world a more satisfactory place in which to live.
In this era recreation does have a fundamental con-

tribution to make in bringing about understanding
not only among nations, but right down in the
neighborhood itself if we are to do our part in
preparing to handle such tremendous power as the
atomic bomb brings us.

This is not a time for little pieces of machinery.
The brotherhood of man expressed in activity in
the neighborhood and throughout the world be—
comes of greater importance. Common service in
the neighborhood as a form of leisure activity
becomes more important. \Vhether we wish it or
not, we have become citizens of the entire world,
and recreation has a major part to play in world
affairs. I

There is time, perhaps, to speak of one other
item that has gathered great importance. It may
seem strange at a time when we have just de-
stroyed $1,324,000,000,000 worth of material in a
world war to talk of an age of abundance, and yet
an industrial engineer, part owner in factories all
over this country, coming into the office not long
ago said, “Y on who work in recreation should be
thinking and planning for the time of abundance,
when we shall produce much more than we are

(Continued on page 662)

619

The 1946 Recreation Congress

OR THE FIRST time since 1942
F the Recreation Congress

met again. Nearly eleven
hundred people from forty-two
states and Canada came. It is not possible to
characterize accurately in a word a gathering that
has so many sides, but if one thing stood out
more than anything else, I suspect that it was the
feeling of fellowship that prevailed. It was not only
that old friends were together again after a long
absence. They had come from far corners of the
earth, many of them still in uniform. On every
side the greetings were hearty and genuine. They
were purposeful too. Everybody wanted to share
together the experiences that might have bearing on
future work, and so from early morning until late
at night, at the meetings and in between, there
was a fine spirit of fellowship. This augurs well
for the recreation movement in the immediate
years ahead.

General Impressions

It was particularly inspiring to see the large
number of new delegates. During the four—year
interval since the last Congress many new workers
.have come into the profession through the Army,
the Navy,-the Red Cross, and other agencies, and
they were eagerly welcomed by those who had at—
tended many Congresses in prior years.

Throughout the forty years of the Association
the Congress has met in many parts of the United
States, and yet Atlantic City seems to be home,
for so many of them have been held there. Haddon
Hall is still a hospital, but arrangements at the
Claridge and the other hotels met our needs ex-
ceedingly well. The physical arrangements were
particularly fortunate. The Consultation Work-
shop and Exhibits were all an intimate part of the
Congress. Their full benefits could be realized
without undue effort. Innumerable conferences
were arranged with consultants on special topics
and literally thousands of publications were
ordered. Delegates were eager to confer with ex—
hibitors who for the first time in a number of years
were” able to say what recreation supplies were
available and how much they would be. Though
Atlantic City in January was a startlingly new
idea, the strolls on the Boardwalk were as enter-
taining and refreshing as ever.

620

By T. E. RIVERS

Secretary
Recreation Congress Committee

The Congress has always had
the reputation of being a work-
ing convention. I think there
never was a time in my own
memory when there was a greater eagerness on the
part of the delegates to make every moment count.
The meetings were well attended, frequently
crowded. This was true of both the discussion
groups and the general sessions. There was little
moving around in the meetings. PeOple came early
and stayed throughout the meetings. In addition
to the large number of meetings scheduled, some
twenty extra meetings were called to consider spe-
cial subjects. The delegates came to work and
worked conscientiously. All were eager to make
the most of the opportunities for getting informa-
tion, ideas and suggestions for making the work
back in their own local communities more effective.

General Sessions

Many of the delegates felt that the Congress was
particularly fortunate in its general speakers this
year. We were at the crossroads between the mili-
tary experience and the years to follow. Howard

Braucher, President of the Association, struck a
responsive chord when he called for large plans
and great vision and a unified effort on the part of
all recreation workers to have the profession meas-
ure up to the responsibility it should have in the
new era brought about by the development of
atomic energy.

The important part that recreation had had in
the recent \Vorld War was told by Major General
Joseph W. Byron, Colonel Howard A. Rusk, and
Captain R. E. Wilson of the Navy. The recognition
which they gave t6 it and the commendations for
recreation workers engaged in it thrilled the pro-
fession. That story having been told, our eyes were
turned to the future. William T. Vanderlipp. a
lawyer and economist, said there could be no good
economy or worthwhile industrial development
without recreation. Dr. Lewis Webster Jones,
president of Bennington College, from his experi-
mental work in the college and the Bennington
community, is convinced that recreation can be-
come an important part in the revival of commu-
nity life in America with important implications
for democracy.

RECREATION

 

THE 1946 RECREATION CONGRESS 621

A Few Highlights

Indicative of the place of youth in recreation
planning was the presence at the Congress of a
number of teen-age young people who took part in
several of the discussions and held their own par—
ticularly well in the sessions dealing with teen-age
centers. Youth participation was further drama—
tized by the action of the Hi—Spot Youth Council
of Lakeland, Florida, whose members as a special
project picked, packed, and shipped to the Con-
gress as a gift some twenty thousand oranges, so
that orange juice could be served throughout the
week to delegates.

A number of delegates have spoken and written
to us about the fine morale of the Congress itself.
The delegates over and over again expressed sat-
isfaction in having the kind of meeting where all
interested in recreation could come together from
all walks of life, professional and volunteer work-
ers, and exchange information about their experi—
ences, discuss all sides of questions, and still feel
that there was a unity in the movement that could
only mean progress. One careful observer who had
never attended a Recreation Congress came in to
say in person, “This meeting has been one of the
best examples of applied democracy that, I have
ever seen.” Recreation workers whose first thought
is service to America can and do take pride in
their meeting.

The publicity on the Congress was unusually
good. Correspondents from New York, Baltimore,
Philadelphia, and Boston papers were present.
Several magazines were represented. Various press
associations carried news to all parts of the coun—
try of what was said and done there. Each day of
the week during the Congress national hookups on
the radio mentioned the Congress.

The full Proceedings of the Congress have been
put together and sent to press. For those who
could not attend as well as for those who were
present, a copy of the Proceedings will be a store-
house of valuable ideas and material. The Proceed—
ings will contain all principal addresses, a summary
of each discussion meeting, a complete report of
the industrial section of the Congress and other
material.*

It was a reassuring experience to see once again,
following the global war, this great cooperative
machinery moving forward in the service of the
recreation movement. All who have had a part in

 

“Orders for the Proceedings should be sent at once to the
National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
\ork 10, New York. The price is $1.75.

MARCH 1946

it through the years and those recently joined in
it have an opportunity and an obligation to keep

it so moving.

The Industrial Conference

About I 50 representatives of many types of in-
dustries from all sections of the country, together
with representatives of labor organizations, cham-
bers of commerce, manufacturers’ associations and
community recreation departments met together
for two days before the general session of the
Congress began. Opening with a luncheon Sun-
day noon, ]anuary 27 the Conference was in ses-
sion almost constantly until the final word had
been said late Monday afternoon.

The spirit of the meetings was excellent. Be-
ginning with a talk by Harold Mayfield, General
Personnel Administration Director of the Owens-
Illinois Glass Company, on “The Meaning of In—
dustrial Recreation,” the Conference considered
the following topics: Organization of Industrial
Recreation in a Large Plant, Organization and
Administration of Management—Labor Programs,
Recreation and Worker Morale, Planning Recre-
ation Activities for Women, Special Activities, Use
of Community Facilities, Use of Plant Facilities,
Community. Industrial Recreation Associations,
What Management and Labor Expect from a Rec-
reation Program in Industry. The final session
was a round table discussion that tried to take care
of the questions that still persisted.

It is impossible to summarize in RECREATION
these sessions of the Industrial Recreation Con-
ference. The Proceedings of the Congress will in-
clude the various formal presentations and a full
report of the Round Table session. A few out-
standing statements are mentioned here because of
the general interest that there is in the industrial
recreation field.

Mr. Mayfield saw an answer to the antagonisms
that are evident in industrial relations today in
“the forces that produce friendliness, activities that
bring people together, for an unselfish sharing of
wholesome pleasures gives a needed opportunity
for the development of human understanding, out
of which genuine friendship canogrow'.”

In a special message to the Conference, Philip
Murray, President of the Congress of Industrial
Organizations, wrote that the CIO has always
recognized the importance of the right sort of re-
creation for its members and that it is “necessary
that organized labor, in cooperation with industry

(Continued on page 662)

Lessons from a Global Recreation Program

By Major General JOSEPH W. BYRON, U.S.A.
and Captain RALPH E. WILSON, U.S.N.

Major General Byron Presents the Army Program

HE INSIDE COVER of the Saturday Evening

Post of January 19, 1946, contains a statement

made by Benjamin Franklin. It is as true to—
day as it was when Benjamin Franklin stated it.
I quote: “The rapid progress true science now
makes occasions my regretting sometimes that I
was born so soon. It is impossible to imagine the
height to which may be carried, in a thousand
years, the power of man over matter.

“Oh that moral science were in a fair way of
improvement, that men would cease to be wolves
to one another and that human beings would at
length be what they now improperly call hu-
manity.”

Originally I had intended to close my talkwith
that quotation from Benjamin Franklin. But last
Sunday I tuned in on the radio early in the morn-
ing and listened to programs almost all day. I
read two newspapers through and a couple of
weekly magazines. And more than half a dozen
times I heard on the radio or read about the same
moral science of which Franklin spoke two hun-
dred years ago.

Moral science seems to be like Mark Twain’s
remark about the weather. Everybody talks about
it, but no one does anything about it.

In Franklin’s time, and the same is true today,
there was insufficient atten-
tion paid by the people to
the best utilization of leisure

 

vision furnishes a foundation for all three sciences.
I witnessed an application of it in 1943, five miles
outside of Oran in North Africa. I visited a bat-
talion that had a zero score, a perfect rate, for
AVVOL’s. The battalion had a zero score, a per-
fect rate, for venereal disease. I inspected the bat—
talion and found that there was a post exchange, a
beer garden, motion pictures, soldier theatricals, a
band, athletic competition, a library, a swimming
pool, tennis courts, and regular dances with trucks
to bring girls out to dance with the men and then
to take them back from camp, chaperoned all the
time.

On another occasion in Belgium in 1945, I wit-
nessed a leave program for men withdrawn from
front-line fire. They were taken from the front
lines for seventy-two hours of rest before they re—
turned again. Here was their program.

They arrived at a rest camp from the front lines
by truck. They took a hot bath. They were issued
clean uniforms. They ate a hot meal. They went
to sleep. While they slept their rifles were cleaned
and oiled, repairs were made, and the rifles were
in top shape for return to battle. \Vheu the men
awoke the next morning they had a choice of ac-
tivity. They could go on a sight—seeing tour by

truck, or they could visit the post exchange. They
could buy gifts from the PX

Gift Catalog. They could
get souvenirs for shipment

time. Yet leisure time is the
key to moral science.

One thing we learned in
our leisure time program in
the Army was the relation
of moral science to a more
contented soldier. Pure
moral science in the Army
is the chaplain’s job. F ight-
ing science—combat science
—is a job for G—3, or the
drill master. Pure science is
the province of the school
teacher.

The Special Services Di-

622

Probably there was no delegate to the
twenty-eighth National Recreation Congress
who was unaware that recreation. too. is
going through a period of reconversion.
Many of them. both in and out of uniformI
were acutely conscious of the new attitude
toward recreation that is found among re-
turning servicemen and women. Many of
them were wondering how best they could
use the experience of Army and Navy rec-
reation programs. It was. thereforeI espe-
cially fortunate that men were available to
speak at the general sessions of the Con-
gress about those experiences and their
meaning to civilian programs. Two of
these talks are published here as they were
given at the Congress.

back home. They could write
letters or go to the library
for books and magazines
and newspapers from home.

They could go to a movie or
a USO show or a Red Cross
Club. They could take part
in athletics or play cards.
There were phonograph rec-
ords; classical, boogie woo-
gie, jive and hillbilly. Civil-
ian girls were brought in,

and chaperoned dances were
held.
I asked the commander of

RECREATION

LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM 623

the rest camp if the men gave him any trouble.
“None at all, sir,” he replied.

I insisted, saying, “I was over here in the last
war, and I know we got up in the morning looking
for trouble and we found it.”

The commander, too, insisted, “\V e don’t have
trouble with these men. They are on their way
back before they have exhausted the recreational
facilities here, and they don’t get out on the town.”

Soldier to Civilian

Yes, the Army learned something from comhin-
ing those three sciences, and if you would like a
suggestion of our war experience in recreation for
application in civilian life here is my suggestion.

Every community in the country should have on
the staff of the mayor, a Special Services Officer.
He would be in charge of coordinating the recrea-
tion activities in the community. He would elimi-
nate the wastefulness of duplication. He would act
as an adviser and a promoter for the best use of
all leisure time in the town or city. Music, the-
atricals, libraries, parks, swimming pools, tennis
courts, athletic contests, dances, picnics, parties
would be a part of his job.

The forty-hour week is here, perhaps a thirty—
five hour week. There will be more and more lei-
sure time. Now is the time to follow up our ideas
on the proper use of leisure time.

On September 2, 1943, I was called to the oflice
of my boss, General Somervell. He was brief. He
said, “Joe, you have done a good job with the post
exchanges, and we are going to reward you—with
more work. I want you to take over the athletic
and recreation services and the Army Motion Pic—
ture Service. I want you to organize recreation
with the PX’s and the movies, and when the war
is over have all those things in France that we
know were not there on Armistice Day, Novem—
ber 11, 1918.”

I looked at the boss and at the sign behind him
on the wall: “The impossible we do at once; the
miraculous takes a little longer.” I said, “Yes,
sir,” and went back to my office, assembled the staff
and told them what we were to do. It was the
biggest recreation job in history—providing for
eight million men, scattered all over the world
movies, athletics, soldier shows, handcrafts, library
service, PX service, games, clubs, rest camps.“

I took the baton in 1943 and now I’m handing
it on to you. In a manner of speaking, I'm making a
last will and testament, and I am bequeathing to
you these eight million men for you totake care of

MARCH 19%

from now on. Our mutual friend and my valuable
staff officer, Colonel Freddy Warburg, cautioned
me concerning this meeting, “Boss, you should
be prepared for one' of two things at Atlantic City:
(I) thunderous applause; or (2) prolonged boo-
ing. Because you are going to hand them a job—
eight million new customers, eight million GI’s
eager for recreation.”

Soon I will be a civilian again, so I bequeath
these eight million to you, and I recommend that
you put many of them to work for you in further-
ance of your next forty years of recreation in this
country.

Special Problems

Of course, you’ll find some soldiers with over—
doses of morale. It’s difficult to distribute recrea—
tion supplies and equipment so that all soldiers get
an even amount. So, some get overdoses; many
get an average amount; and some get little. Those
who got too much recreation constitute just as
much of a problem as those who didn’t get enough.
It’s another category of “Returning Veteran” with
a special kind of problem, and he has to be read—
justed to the tempo of the home and community.
This kind of returned veteran is afflicted with
what might be called Special Services Bonkus of
the Konkus.

Just for the purpose of describing our wares, and
for your amusement rather than for you edifica—
tion, I should like to describe some of the symp—
toms and case histories of GI’s afflicted with Spe—
cial Services Bonkus of the Konkus.

Case “A” is that of a young soldier who came
home from the Pacific to his loving wife. He had
left home in 1942 accustomed to the simple pleas—
ures of home life. But now, to his wife’s chagrin,
what does he want? He wants to see three movies
a week. In the Pacific, soldiers had three movies
a week flown in, even on remote islands. Some-
times they had world premieres of movies, even
before they hit Broadway. Case “A” wanted to
continue to see three movies a week.

Case “B” is a W'ac who was used to mass ath-
letic participation in the Army. She isn’t happy
unless she is at the gymnasium or out on the
ball diamond. She insists on having ping—pong
tables in the living room, and putting and croquet
in the front yard. She makes the children choose
up sides for volley ball in the play pens.

Case “C” is the man who came back discon—
tented with the plays that the Little Theater had
in the old home town, and the occasional vaudeville

624 LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM

shows that visited the Main
Street Bijou. Now he wants
to see Bob Hope and Jack
Benny in person. He won’t
go to a stage show unless
Dinah Shore is singing and
Marlene Deitrich is making
a personal appearance.
Furthermore, he wants to
go backstage and dance with
the chorus girls after the
show, because that’s what he
used to do when the USO
shows visited Bougainville.

Case “X” represents the
sad experience of the young
wife whose home was turned into a machine shop
and art gallery. Her husband wants benches and
lathes. He wants to carve wood and turn the parlor
into a metallurgy shop. He wants a smock and
brushes and paint and easels. He wants modeling
clay. Furthermore, he wants these‘ things pro-
vided free, and a Red Cross hostess to come around
and show him how to do these artistic and hand-
craft things.

Case “Y” is the reading bug. He wants a wide
assortment of reading material, not just the pulp
stuff he used to buy at the drug store. Now he
wants his usual mysteries, the whodunits, along
with westerns, the classics and the best sellers. He
knows what book is the book of the month. What’s
bad about it is that he wants to carry it around in
his hip pocket. He scorns big volumes that weigh
a couple of pounds. He wants a paper-bound,
pocket—size book that he can throw away when he
has finished reading it.

Case “Z” is the young man who goes down to
the drug store on the corner and demands a hot
dog, glass of beer, magazine, soap, hair tonic, ice
cream, candy and stationery—all for the price of
73 cents-——and then he asks the manager of the
store, “When are you going to pay dividends so
we can get a little recreation out our way?” He
expects such bargains and profits because that’s
what the PX does in the Army. The post ex-
change sells at near cost prices and then distributes
dividends for recreation for troops.

There are many amalgamations of Special Ser-
vices neuroses. Some soldiers may have overdoses
of all these things combined. Special Services of-
fered athletics, movies, PX service, library ser-
vice, soldier theatrieals, professional shows, hand—
crafts. One young man wanted all these things but

 

A sign hung. during the war years, on
the wall in, General Brehon Somervell's
office. The sign read' "The impossible we
do at once; the miraculous taltes a little
longer.’I Maior General Joseph W. Byron.
as Director of the Special Services Division
of the Army Service Forces. came to lmow
that this sign made no idle boast. For his
iob was to administer a program designed
to fill the recreation needs of men and
women in unitorm trom all walls at lite
scattered to the four corners of the earth.
Some ways in which the lessons of that
program can be used in peacetime pro]-
ects are suggested on these pages.

his case was complicated by
the fact that he didn’t want
them in the home. He want-
ed to go away to a rest cen-
ter and have an Army host-
ess administer to his re-
quirements.

A New View of Recreation

The foregoing bit of ex—
aggeration strives to estab—
lish a basic, non-facetious
fact. There are millions of
men and women returning
now to civilian life with ap—
preciation for good recrea-
tion. They have a taste of the best in sports, en-
tertainment and the means to use their leisure time
to best advantage.

To keep track of Special Services over the globe,
I maintained headquarters in Washington, New
York and San Francisco, but didn’t remain long at
a time in any of those places. My main operating
headquarters were in planes and on ships, going
around the world to see how these recreation ac-
tivities were getting along. I have traveled 190,000
miles to make sure that the soldiers were getting
the things they needed in our stated mission, “to
build and maintain in men the mental and physical
stamina it takes to win.”

In Tunisia in 1943. General Eisenhower told me .
he wanted the Pf’s because the PK was of value
in helping our men to destroy the Germans.

I have talked with General Omar N. Bradley
on four significant occasions in this war—the first
time in Beja, Tunisia; the second time in south-
western England; and the third time in April 1945,
in Luxembourg. He had told me before that we
would be needed most when the fighting stopped.
and we were there on time after V-E Day—with
shows, sports and games, movies, libraries, music
and the rest of the ingredients of morale.

In August 1945, I saw General Bradley again.
this time in the Veterans’ Administration Head-
quarters in \Vashington. His remark wasmy re-
ward. “Joe,” he said, “you folks have set up such
a high standard for leisure time activities for the
soldier that I want to borrow some of your best
men to survey the Veterans setup.” We lease—
lent our best, at some sacrifice, and the recrea-
tion service of the Veterans’ Administration is
staffed with Special Services proven men.

My ,job was furnishing recreation over long sup—

RECREATION

LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM 625

ply lines, with food, ammunition and medical sup-
plies getting first priority. It was convincing tough
commanders that recreation is not coddling—that
the most that can be done is just a drop in the
bucket. It was dropping ice cream by parachute
on a Pacific Island. It was routing millions of
dollars worth of talent and temperament—Holly-
wood and stage stars—over the widest and rough-
est vaudeville circuit in the world. And if the
transportation and the bunks and the mess were
bad, we heard about it. It was seeing the GI
Olympic Games at Nuremburg, Germany. It was
hearing the Special Services officer on the island
of Mindoro plead for more movies per week so
that men would stay out of brothels in the island
town of San Juan. It was a soldier show in Seoul,
Korea. It was a baseball game of soldiers in the
Army of Occupation in Tokyo.

We worked very closely with the Navy and
Marines. Naval personnel worked with the Army’s
Special Services office in New York, for better-
ment of recreation in both services, and in par—
ticular for providing the Navy andoMarines with
V-Disc phonograph records, Hit Kits (which are
song sheets), soldier and sailor show publications,
costumes, books and magazines, and post exchange
service.

Leadership

In speaking of all this, I want to assure you that
I do not mean that I think recreation and enter-
tainment are the sole ingredients of morale. There
are many other things to consider. Among them
are food, mail and, most im-
portant of all, leadership.

Morale in the Army is a

We did not always have the best men as Special
Services officers. Some commanders were not sold
on recreation. They didn’t put able men in the
jobs. And when men proved to be able—and most
recreation men are able, it’s characteristic of the
species '— they were taken away from recreation
and put in jobs considered more important. °

An advantage the Army did have was money—
for supplies, equipment and program. What we
did not have is something that the National Rec—
reation Association does have—Leadership. When
the town of Podunk, a thousand miles away, wants
a recreation setup, you send men, able men, to do
the job, or to show them how to do the job.

Such leadership is needed in the Army, in uni-
versal military training, in our peacetime Army
from now on. I am at this time recommending to
the Army that full recognition be given to recre-
ation, and that Special Services be established so
that able men will be secured and maintained in
recreation positions in the Army. That will give
us the kind of leadership you have in the National
Recreation Association, the kind of leadership
necessary to the fulfillment of recreation programs
for military men.

Recommendations

I have told you some of the things we found out
from our experience with these eight million men,
and since I have handed you the baton, it might be
well for me to make a few suggestions on how you
might proceed with them and with your program.

Measure your effectiveness by the service you

give in remote places. You
must give service to sur-
vive. I am glad that decen-

function of command. Lead-
ership is the one most im-
portant thing in athletics, rec-
reation and entertainment.

I cannot conscientiously
say that all was well with
Special Services in the
Army. I cannot stand here
and say we did a wonderful
job. We did fairly well. We
had the supplies and equip-
ment and the program. But
there was one thing we
lacked. \Ve lacked some-
thing that you in the Na—
tional Recreation Associa-
tion have—Leadership.

MARCH 1946

"Captain Wilson has had a distinguished
record of service in the Navy. He gradu—
ated from Annapolis in I924, was command-
ing otticer ot the destroyer Buchanan, par-
ticipated in the Guadalcanall Solomons and
Tulagi campaigns. He was appointed to
Admiral Halsey's staff and became opera-
tions officer for the South Pacific campaign.
Later as o erations officer of the Third
Fleet Staff e participated in the invasions
of the PhilippinesI Palau. and Okinawa. He
was active in the Japanese phase of activi-
ties. went ashore at Tokyo with the first
Naval torcesl participated in the release of
prisoners of war. and was present on the
Missouri at the signing of the Japanese
surrender.

I'He was recently put in charge ot the
welfare and recreation of the Navy."

tralization, with accent on
service, is the policy of the
National Recreation Asso-
ciation. Give service in small
communities, and have the
program broad enough so
that local authorities will
have flexible programs.

Find a way to use veter-
ans in your community pro-
grams. They will be useful
to you. Use Special Ser-
vices alumni.

Plan to use oldsters in
future recreation programs.
See a book entitled You
Are Younger Than You

626 LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM

Think. It contains facts and reasoning about the
need for recreation among older groups.

Include travel in your programs. Visit other
communities and inject competition into the
scheme. Encourage foreign travel. It will be
beneficial.

Broaden the scope of prizes and awards.

Encourage the present trend toward memorial
athletic and recreation facilities. Communities now
are not putting up war memorial statues, but com-
munity centers.

Captain Wilson Speaks for the Navy

General Byron has very clearly and capably out—
lined the important role that recreation has played
in the present war. As Director of the Welfare
Divison of the United States Navy, I should like
to add a hearty “Amen” to General Byron’s state-
ments, and, at the same time, to explain the think-
ing of the Navy on this subject of recreation and
morale.

we, like the Army, have drawn our recreation
leaders from civilian pursuits; consequently, we
have had in our midst the entire range of indi-
vidual interpretation of the job of recreation. Some
of our eager and enthusiastic recreation officers
have proclaimed recreation to be the panacea of all
morale problems. Other older heads have thought
of recreation in the negative way, “something to
keep the boys out of the brig—a program to keep
idle hands busy—a program for physical training
so that off-duty time will find them so physically
exhausted that they will have no desire to get into
mischief while on liberty.” And I am afraid we
have some recreation leaders who probably think
that they can eliminate all of man’s unconventional
desires by suggesting that he indulge in a chal—
lenging game of parchesi.

Now our shake-down cruise has been completed
and we are in the position to take a backward
glance at the role recreation played in the Navy.
\Ve find that our concept of recreation lies mid*
way between that extremist who thinks that recre—
ation cures all the evils, and the other who thinks
it has very little or no effect on man’s endeavor.

We have accumulated an abundance of evidence
which supports the contention that recreation plays
a fundamental role in the developing of good
morale. Therefore, the aim of our recreation pro-
gram has been to make the Navy most effective by
enhancing the effectiveness of each individual in
the service. We know and recognize that content-
ment of mind and comfort of "body are the founda-

tion on which the structure of good morale is built.
This, plus the determination to succeed in the pur-
pose for which the organization exists, is the frame-

. work. The completed structure must also embody

such factors as discipline, efficiency, pride in self,
loyalty, community purpose, obedience to orders,
smart appearance, and snap. \Vhen this structure
is inhabited by a mind inspired by a great cause,
there exists an organization that will stand strain
and exhibit the greatest fortitude under adversity.

The very fact that an analysis of the definition
of morale invariably refers to the individual is the
obvious reason why our approach to recreation has
been that of “an attempt to provide opportunities
for the individual to participate in a program of
his choice.” Even though our program, through
necessity, was designed to accommodate the needs
of millions of servicemen and women, we exerted
every possible effort to maintain a flexibility that
would provide for the individual leisure time needs
of all our personnel within the limitations of a war
program. In retrospect, we feel that this approach
to recreation was sound and that we have reaped
tremendous benefits by providing a minimum
amount of leisure time regimentation and a maxi—
mum amount of leisure time freedom of choice.

Whether or not this freedom of choice for leisure
time pursuits would work as successfully in other
countries and other situations is an academic ques-
tion, but we do know that the American way of
life requires it. On the basketball court we invent
a new fake or turn to deceive the opposition. In a
checker game we improvise new strategy offen-
sively and defensively to defeat our opponents. In
music we re-interpret, revise, alter tempo or em-
phasis to satisfy another mood. All the time we
are developing a willingness to explore, a con-
fidence in judgment, a daring in initiative—and
this, all of it, has been later translated in battle and
has made for American lighting forces a most
enviable reputation. The ability to meet a new
situation and to meet it correctly at a time when
one miss means death, is inherent in American
naval forces from admirals down through the
ranks. It isn’t there by chance. It springs from
training in the American home, school, playground.
Incidentally, that playground is not confined to a
play lot with a fence around it. Rather it includes
one’s favorite forest, trout-stream, library, bowling
alley, card table, theater or garden—or it may be
the dining table or the backyard. In all of these
situationsthere is opportunity for variety, impro-

RECREATION

LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM 627

visation, adventure, inventiveness, and freedom of
choice.

A Job for the Navy

In the Navy during the war years just com-
pleted we spent an estimated fifty million dollars
for recreation facilities. We commissioned some
twelve hundred welfare and recreation officers and
two “hundred and fifty physical training officers.
There were, in addition, twelve thousand enlisted
personnel who were rated as specialists in athletics
or recreation. The results of this recreation pro-
gram of the military is to a large measure familiar
to you who are engaged in this field, and I do not
propose at this time to relate all the many and
varied recreation services. I would like to say,
however, that even under the strangest conditions
or the most hazardous duty, we have found that
recreation needs did not alter fundamentally. The
familar form of a coke, American music, a soft-
ball game, or a favorite waltz served to fortify and
reassure our personnel. The provision of such
things as music, radio, live entertainment, good
books, games, Sports, and hobbies in approved
American fashion did not just happen. It was
brought forth in response to the needs and wishes
of millions of Americans transplanted and, until
recently, fighting and dying on strange soil, in the
uniform of their country.

It has frequently been said that war, insofar as
the individual fighting man is concerned, consists
'of 90 percent boredom and IO percent fear. It was
the 90 percent factor against which the recreation
program was projected-"and this in a five-ocean,
global Navy presents many unique problems. At
training stations and other places within the con-
tinental limits of the United States this presented
no unique problems other than those of expansion
and construction of new facilities on a greatly en-
larged scale. At all these stations every effort was
made, to provide all forms of recreation to the
maximum extent possible.

Oahu, the focal point of all Pacific naval activity,
being close to the threat of actual combat, required
special attention. Here the normal activities of
the men were restricted by a greatly overcrowded
community and the necessity to observe blackout
and other combat restrictions. Transportation,
particularly for the crews of the many ships which
visited Pearl Harbor, was always a very acute
problem. The most successful of the activities un—
dertaken in Oahu consisted of outlying rest homes
or recreation centers which served to remove the

MARCH 1946

men completely from military environment during
the time they were privileged to use these facilities.

The greatest problem in promoting a vital rec-
reation program was that which involved the crews
of the many combat ships. The facilities provided
and the success of the undertaking varied greatly
with the size of the ship. Heavy emphasis was
placed on motion pictures, and it was not at all
uncommon for ships cruising in the combat zone to
run continuous motion picture shows from mid-
morning through the evening hours. These, of
course, had to be held below deck in relatively
confined spaces and attendance at any one show
was, therefore, quite limited. ,It was amazing to
witness the day-after-day enthusiastic attendance
at the movies in these confined spaces even though
the temperature and ventilation frequently bor-
dered on complete discomfort. Ships’ libraries were
kept active and fluid and were enthusiastically
used. Athletics and games of various kinds were
greatly restrictedm—primarily by lack of space.
However, simple athletic games such as deck ten-
nis were encouraged wherever possible and sun
bathing proved to be one of the most p0pular forms
of complete relaxation. Several hours of the day
could be used for sun bathing but men were re-
quired to keep a full set of clothing immediately at
hand as protection against fire and burns in case
the threat of attack should suddenly develop. Some
ships and Armed Guard on merchant ships proved
to be a very special problem. These men could not
be provided with motion pictures. Resort had to
be made to Special recreation kits consisting of
library books, magazines and the more simple
games and athletic equipment.

A Far-Flung Program

As the war progressed through the Pacific it
soon became apparent that very heavy emphasis
must be placed on recreation facilities at advance
fleet bases. During 1943 and most of 1944 the
Navy’s combat effort was so intensive and the few
far-flung bases so primitive that there were many
instances of the crews of fleet combat vessels being
kept on board their ships for as long as six or
eight months without ever setting foot on shore.
This was due to the extreme mobility of the fleet,
to the lack of small boats to transport men ashore
and to the acute shipping condition which pre-
cluded moving up recreation facilities in pace with
the advance across the Pacific. As the condition
stabilized great strides were made to provide rec-
reation facilities. ashore at each of the bases and

628 LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM

transportation for the ship’s personnel. One of the
best examples was the atoll of Ulithi where, within
thirty days after its seizure and utilization by the
fleet as an advance base, a large scale recreation
facility was set up and put in operation on little
Mog Mog Island. It accommodated 10,000 to
I 5,000 enlisted personnel each day. The recreation
facilities at Mog Mog Island were crude according
to any accepted continental standards, but it was
possible to provide limited refrigeration for soft
drinks, a crude recreation center with tables and
benches, softball diamonds and a swimming beach.
And I have heard it frequently said by enlisted
men who had experienced long periods of confine-
ment to their ship that what was available on M 0g
Mog Island was not nearly so important as their
ability to land and just dig their toes into the sand.

There were other and more completely adequate
recreation centers established at advance bases
where they were easily accessible to fleet ships at
anchor and where shipping and initial plans per-
mitted construction on a more extensive scale. By
the end of the war the Navy’s technique in servic-
ing ships at sea had developed to such a point that
it was only necessary for ships to return to port
for battle damage fepairs and the rest and relaxa-
tion of the crews. Much had been learned in re—
gard to the importance of the latter and I believe
that never again will the Navy be caught in the
position of being unable to provide adequate rec—
reation facilities at the most advanced of the fleet
‘bases.

One development of the war which we have un—
derlined in the book of future plans is that of the
rest camp. This was most successfully worked out
by the submarine force and consisted of an isolated
camp with pleasant surroundings and good food
removed as far as possible from all war environ-
ment. As submarines would come in from battles
whole crews would be transported to rest camps
for as long a period as the schedule of their ship
permitted. Complete relaxation and the absence
of any indication of routine made these camps par-
ticularly popular. The accomplishments of the sub—
marines in maintaining lone and vigorous cam—
paigns at sea were in no small degree influenced
by the success of the camps.

Leaders of Men

We have found that recreation leadership worthy
of the name possesses about the same qualifications
that characterize good leadership in any other en-
deavor. It must have courage—the courage of its

convictions; it must be technically sound and, most
important, it must be sensitive to the needs of the
people. Leadership of the right kind will make
itself felt in many ways. It must have ability to
foresee needs in program, facilities, equipment, and
finance, plus ability to elicit the support of those
who control facilities, materials, supplies, and en-
thusiasms.

Many fine facilities are wasted, much good and
valuable equipment lies idle, many recreatio‘n ap-
petites remain unappeased because the leadership
fails to bring these elements into happy collabora-
tion. Team up the human physical resources, set
the stage properly, and program, good program
can easily become reality.

An interesting comment made by the former
director of welfare, Captain T.  O'Brien, after
his return from the Pacific tour of recreation in-
stallations further verifies this contention. He
stated that where recreation had the sympathetic
cooperation of the commanding officer, and a good
recreation officer, the off-duty time of personnel
was never a problem. However, where recreation
had a sympathetic commanding officer but a poor
recreation officer or vice versa, where recreatipn
had a satisfactory recreation officer and an unsym-
pathetic commanding officer, the off—duty time of
our personnel often became an acute problem.
Where recreation had neither a sympathetic com-
manding officer, nor a qualified recreation officer,
what the men were doing in their off-duty time
was something the Navy does not care to talk
about

Analysis

The outstanding result of our recreation experi-
ence leads us to the firm conviction that the essence
of the program is leadership. We feel that the rec-
reation program has made great strides during the
war years and has received an intelligent interpre-
tation due fundamentally to the high caliber of
leadership that is in the recreation field today. It
is the plan and intention of the Navy to maintain
at a high level welfare and recreation services to
our personnel as an integral part of our peacetime
Navy. we feel that these services have been
thoroughly demonstrated as a fundamental factor
in human relationship and it is our earnest hope
that the gains made during the war years will be
preserved.

\Ve are certain that you as public and private
recreation workers will be directly affected by the

(Contimced on page 673)
RECREATION

Emphasis on "Civilian"

UR SCHOOLS and colleges,
0 influenced, perhaps, by
the isolation in which we
as a nation basked prior to

\Vorld War II, have not prepared us to assume
our full responsibilities in this our one world.

The Army, with faith in this nation’s future,
endeavored to bring about a world consciousness
among its men through a program of information
and orientation. Part of the program was com-
pulsory, but its most effective parts were con-
ducted as leisure activity through:

Panels, speakers, discussion clubs, open forums.

Radio, newspapers, movies, pamphlets.

Dramatic skits, quiz programs, essay contests.

Bulletin boards, libraries, world information
centers.

Although considerable progress was made, the
ultimate goal could not be achieved in the time at
hand and with the leadership available for this
purpose, and so, much remains to be done with the
returning veteran to say nothing of the balance of
our citizenry. You may say that this is a job for
our educational and informational agencies, but it
is also a job for every agency which has the privi-
lege of touching the lives of people and in turn
shaping their thoughts and deeds. We have only
to look at the trials and tribulations of the United
Nations Organization as reported in the daily
papers to realize that the problem of devel0ping
world citizenship consciousness is a tremendous
one—and the time is so short!

I, therefore, recommend spending a portion of
each in-service training meeting of recreation staff
members on a study of the world in which we live
——its people, their problems—so that activity lead-
ers and supervisors will develop an acute aware-
ness of the need for better understanding among
nations and will thus use psychological moments
to erase a prejudice here or answer a question
without prejudice there or to use a leisure inter-
est as a starting point from which to develop a
desire to learn more about the facts surrounding
the world where we hope to be able to live in
peace from here on in. We all need to know more
about the peoples of other countries—how they
live, something of their history, what they think
of us—in order to understand them and their

MARCH 1946

By Major H. F. MOOR

Chief. Personnel Services DIVISIOI’I
Air Transport Command

attitudes toward affairs of
mutual concern. Recreation of-
fers a host of opportunities for
deve10ping interest and under-
standing in these matters so vital to deve10pment
of the peace cessation of hostilities now makes
possible.

The Veteran Has Deve10ped New
Leisure Interests

Whenever you take pe0ple and shuffle them
around in this world of ours, they are bound to
come in contact with leisure activities they for-
merly could not or did not enjoy. Such has been
the case of the men in the service. This GI from
the city, stationed in Africa where horses sold for
as little as $20, learned to ride and play polo. That
one experienced his first thrill hunting gazelle or
wild boar. One boy learned to operate a metal
lathe and grew fond of turning things out of shell
castings. Another learned to enjoy spit and argue
club activity—for which there was so much time
in the “hurry up and wait” Army routine.

In some cases the men participated out of sheer
relief from boredom, and in those instances there
may be little, if any, carry-over into civilian life.
In others there will be carry-over provided we
arrange for suitable opportunities at prices the
veteran can afford.

I recommend a survey of the veterans in your
community to find out what new leisure interests
they have developed. With men who have been
stationed all around the world, these interests are
bound to vary considerably.

Army Recreation Was “For Free”

In the Army a man bowled or played billiards——
for free; attended movies—for free or for a nom-
inal admission; got high priced U50 and other
entertainment—for free; participated in social- club
activities—for free; had all the facilities of an
athletic club available to him——-for free; worked in
hobby shops for free and even had materials, in
some cases, furnished gratis.

What, if any, effect this experience will have on
recreation programs I’m not prepared to say. I
suspect, however, that it can be used to advantage
in securing additional tax support for public pro-

629

630 EMPHASIS 0N “CIVILIAN”

grams—especially where the veteran is living on
unemployment compensation or working at some
one of the too many low paid jobs.

The Movie Habit

- Because of poor recreation leadership in some
instances, and because of sheer lack of facilities in
others, movies became the backbone of many Spe-
cial Service programs. Where the average civilian
attends movies once a week, the soldier was pro-
vided with four or five, and the more he got, the

louder he seemed to yell for still more. I suspect
that the films reminded him of home and facilitated

a vicarious enjoyment of the things he missed
most. I suspect, also, that they may have de-
veloped a movie habit in many men. When you
start sitting through four or more movies a week,
you aren’t attending because they are good movies
-—'——there aren’t that many being made. You’ve suc—
cumbed to the ease with which movies enable you
to kill time and forget your troubles.

Increased Co-Recreational Activity

The veteran has just returned from three or four
years away from home and, in many cases, a good
percentage of that time was spent without the com-
pany of the opposite sex. He has a lot of catching
up to do by way of satisfying his desire for enjoy-
ing that company.

The alert recreation executive will acknowledge
this fact and will both improve the calibre and ex-
pand the variety of his cafeteria of co-recreational
activities.

The Recreation Horizon Spreads

Throughout the war I have been connected with
a unit of the Army Air Forces known as the Air
Transport Command—the organization which es-
tablished routes and air bases around the world
for the purpose of ferrying planes and hauling high
priority cargo and person-
nel to the battle fronts. The

reach of a large percentage of our population’s
vacation budgets.

What does this have to do with community rec-
reation programs? Well, short courses in- foreign
languages will be in demand for one thing, as will
refresher courses in the geography, the history, the
customs, of many of the countries within easy
reach—courses designed to make vacations abroad
more meaningful. They will also contribute to the
development of that world citizenship conscious-
ness about which I spoke earlier.

The Army has published considerable literature
about various countries '— particularly those in
which our tr00ps have been stationed. Self-teach—
ing language courses, utilizing phonograph records,
have also been designed to give a person enough
of a handle on a foreign language to permit him
to get around without too much trouble. These
courses can, of course, also be used for group in-
struction where no professional language teacher
is available. Even where such talent is available,
use of the Army course can make an interesting
activity out of what normally is a tedious and
monotonous academic subject. Ask the Informa-
tion-Education Officer of the military installation
nearest you to demonstrate some of these for you.
They are expendable and are bound to be surplus
at many installations.

Supplies and Equipment

One piece of equipment the Army has used
quite extensively in isolated locations and with
which you may not be familiar is a combination car-
rier radio station and PA system which can be set
up easily by anyone in ten minutes, which cost the
Army around $200, which weighs around 100
pounds, and which comes in a small trunk type
case. These units will broadcast a radius of about
two miles and might be a handy gadget for use in
summer camps—especially those built or operated

on the dispersal plan.
Another development with

Command has pioneered im-
provements in air transport
which have advanced reli—
able air transport service to
foreign countries by per-
haps fifteen years. You can
now go to South America,
EurOpe, Africa, in less than
a day’s time, and it appears
that transportation costs
will soon be within the

Recreation leaders from coast to coast-now
have or will very soon have to reconsider
their programs in connection with the
needs and demands of men and women
newly returned to civilian life. In an address
to the Society of Recreation Workers of
America meeting at Atlantic City during
the twenty-eighth National Recreation
Congress, Major H. F. Moor suggests some
of the ways in which the recent experiences
with recreation as administered by the Army
for the members of the armed services
may influence civilian program-planning.

which you may not be fa-
miliar are craft project kits
which were sold through
post exchanges. These are
now available in arts and
crafts supply channels in
quite a number of projects
and media. For example, a
billfold kit contains suffi-
cient leather, lacing and
tools, to make a single

RECREATION

EMPHASIS ON “CIVILIAN” 631

wallet. Placing these kits on sale at local stores or
through your craft shops may help carry this pro-
gram over into the home. Too frequently, I feel.
we're too jealous of those attendance figures to
think about helping elsewhere! Again, these kits
are not surplus with the “far Department, but are
available through normal craft supply channels.

In an effort to provide ample reading materials
at economical costs, the Army arranged with pub-
lishers for mass reproduction of best sellers in
pocket-sized paper hound editions. These cost the
War Department six and a half cents each. They
were issued as expendable property and were
scattered through clubs, day rooms, on planes—
anywhere men might start to read them—and, I’m
positive this did much to develop leisure reading
activity. You may wish to investigate the sources
of these materials with a view to making similar
use of them.

As seems to be the case whenever another
agency enters the recreation field, it has to put out
its own publications, which, in too many instances
are mostly rehashes of what already has been pub-
lished elsewhere. Such, to a large extent, has been
the case with the Army which has made wide dis-
tribution of paper bound publications in Specific
as well as general leisure fields. Since many of
these will be excess with the closing of Army
posts, and since they are expendable property,
you might check with the nearest installation Spe-
cial Service Officer and see if there is anything
you or your staff members can use.

General Recreation Program Developments
in the Army

By and large, the development of recreation
programs in the Army has been a patience-trying
business for those few of us with professional rec-
reation experience. To begin with, officers in high
places thought almost entirely in terms of enter-
tainment and so selected, for the most part, pro-
fessional entertainers in sports, music, and drama
as recreation officers. Its programs were benevol-
éntly paternalistic as contrasted with being of and

by as well as for the men, and throughout the war _

we've had to wear down this fallacious concept.
We've made progress, however, to the extent that,

in our Command, at least, several things have
happened.

VVe’ve succeeded in writing into regulations the
stipulation that programs will Operate with ad-
visory councils of enlisted men actively participat-

MARCH 1946

ing in the planning, organization and conduct of
them.

We've succeeded in re—writing the all-powerful
inspector’s check list of Special Service activities
so that he now looks into such things as whether
activities are conducted on various levels of skill,
as contrasted with the old check list which went
little further than such matters as checking the
number and location of fire extinguishers in the
theater.

\Ve’ve succeeded in publishing standards for
Special Service Officers which emphasize the im-
portance of recreational administrative experience
as a pre-requisite for assignment to the job.

\Ve’ve succeeded in publishing minimum'pro—
gram standards in the various organized leisure
activity fields. ‘

We now have official directives requiring weekly
in-service training for Special Service staff mem-
bers at base level. This was no trifling accom-
plishment in view of the persistence in some quar-
ters that a month’s pre—entry training was all that
was required!

We even succeeded, recently, in publishing a
directive requiring the use of psychological analysis
of Special Service in making periodic program
evaluations—and for some in the Army to admit
that there was anything as complicated as psychol—
ogy connected with recreational activities was a
milestone!

Educational and Vocational Information
and Counseling Service

One of the things on every veteran’s mind is a
job. What is he naturally best fitted for? Which
pays the best returns? Which offers the biggest
opportunity for advancement? \Vhat educational
pre-requisites are involved?

The Army provided a leisure time vocational
information and educational counseling service to
help the soldier find fhe answer to these questiOns
about a job. Many men, however, were -not
reached. Others weren’t interested at the time.
Still others have had to change their plans when
faced with changed circumstances at home.

I am not trying to induce you to incorporate the
fields of education and vocational guidance in your
recreation programs, but, as professional people,
we must recognize human needs which are bound
to affect our immediate programs, and, in turn,
attempt to provide solutions. A man who is wor—

(Continued on page 664)

Outpost
Centers

By JULIUS KEMENY
Commissioner of Recreation

Cleveland. Ohio

URING 1944, the City Division of Recreation
D of Cleveland, Ohio, greatly increased its scope

with the beginning of its Outpost Center
work. Certain social studies as well as analysis of
registrations in existing city;owned and operated
centers revealed scant coverage of recreation ser—
vices in several heavily populated areas. Examina—
tion of physical facilities in these areas showed that
public or semi-public agencies owned rooms in
which at least some recreation programs could be
conducted.

It was decided that programs and group lead-
ership offered by the Division of Recreation in
facilities owned by public agencies other than the
city and open to the entire community were to be
regarded as outpost work. It was also decided
that before a program or leadership be placed in
such facilities, a definite need had to be indicated,
such as a recommendation from a recognized social
study, findings of a local area council or of a rep-
resentative community group. Such plans were im-
mediately forthcoming and necessary arrangements
were made with the Cleveland Public Library
System for a trial program.

Clubs, Drama and Small Crafts

The first Outpost Center was established in the
basement rooms at the Quincy Branch Library in
the latter part of January of 1944. It was thought
that only a program for children of elementary
school age was possible as space and operating
hours were limited. However, registrations and
analyses were made to determine priorities in
serving the different age levels. A schedule of
small crafts, club and drama groups was set up on
the results of these findings. The community re—
acted so favorably to this meager program that it
pointed up the need for more of such work.

Arts and Crafts

The second center was set up in the Intercul-
tural Library where a program of collecting cul-

632

 

Print by Gedge Harnwn

tural objects and literature of all nationalities was
already in progress. Basement rooms were reno-
vated to provide storage space for equipment and
supplies and were rewired to insure pr0per light-
ing. The plan for this spot was ideal. Ceramics,
painting in oil and water, weaving, needlecraft and
leather work could be offered and the library could
be used as a source of information. The relation-
ships between the group leadership and the library
staff was, of necessity, very close. Their joint aim
was to give the interested individual an oppor-
tunity for creative experience in his chosen medium
in a place where source materials for inspiration
and reference were readily available. This pro-
gram was designed largely for adults and teen-
agers. The Cleveland Public Library now plans
to house the Intercultural Library in its main
building, so the Arts and Crafts program will, of
necessity, be re-located.

Canteen

The third Outpost Center to open was the Twi-
light Canteen. This youth activity was highly
successful from its outset and has helped consid-
erably in evolving a blueprint for future coopera-
tive ventures of this kind. A local unit of the
American Women’s Voluntary Service that had
identified the need for a good youth program in
that locality took up the lead in setting up the
working machinery by acting as the community
sponsoring group. They were also instrumental in
securing the use of space at the East End Com—
munity Center for housing the canteen. The Di-
vision of Recreation then agreed to furnish super-

RECREATION

 

OUTPOST CENTERS - 633

vision, program advice and leadership for the
effort, in addition to acquainting the general mem-
bership of the American Women’s Voluntary Ser-
vice and other volunteers with canteen objectives,
patterns and problems. This phase covered a per-
iod of about three months. When the Twilight
Canteen opened its doors, the response was tre-
mendous. A large staff was necessary almost at
once. The program was soon settled nicely" and
was accepted wholeheartedly by the community.
Registration for six months totaled some 389 teen-
agers and the waiting list ran just under 100. Ac-
tivities included amateur events and talent re-
views, social dancing, table games and backgam-
mon. In the short space of one year, this program
is as solidly rooted, as well known and as satis—

factory as many that have been operating for a
long period of time.

For Younger Children

Immediately following this canteen was the
\Voodland Branch Library which posed several new
problems. In this case, the rooms available for
recreation use were on the same level as the read-
ing rooms and charging desk of the library proper.
This situation, naturally enough, placed restric-
tions upon the use of the rooms. A program of
small crafts, music, dancing and club activities for
children of the fourth, fifth and sixth grades in the
near-by schools was decided upon. Here again,
registration and attendance far out-distances avail-
able space and leadership—thus indicating an acute
and unmet need. Operational difficulties still
plague this program and it deserves a careful re-

vamping and re—evaluation, but despite all this it
has doubly justified its existence.

Housing Project

At the beginning of each fall and winter season,
several housing projects requested at least part-
time leadership in their community buildings. This
seemed a logical extension of service. The projects
with their large numbers of families and many chil-
dren have physical facilities which are usually ade—
quate for recreation programs. However, there is
seldom provision for recreation leadership on the
housing authorities’ payrolls.

Policies

Shortly after the second or third centervgvas
established, it was apparent that a regular ovéi'zall
policy for operation of these centers was necessary.

MARCH 1946

Each center presented a different problem but the
following seven principles have served well enough
as a working agreement between the City Division
of Recreation and any other agency which fur-
nishes facilities or houses activities.

1. Need for workers shall either be indicated by a
recognized study or a local civic group.

2. The content of a recreation program shall be deter-
mined by facilities, registration and knowledge of
community needs as noted by an advisory commit-
tee or an area field worker and the City Recreation
supervisor of the given district, or by all together.

3. Final responsibility for interpretation of such a
program will rest with the head of the agency fur-
nishing the facilities. Because of this responsibility,
he will also have control of workers and local
policy through the City Recreation supervisor.

4. The City Recreation supervisor in such an area will
advise and personally supervise such workers as are
assigned and will 1be responsible for turning in such
reports as are necessary.

5. Responsibility for supplies shall be shared by the
agency and the Division of Recreation whenever
possible.

6. Local sponsors may warn recreation staff members
in case of defection.

7. It is understood that participation in recreation pro-
grams is open to the general public.

The attendance, age range and enrollment sta-
tistics at twelve Outpost Centers which are given
below cover a period from January I, 1945 to
September 30, 1945.

Enrollment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6,019
Age range . . . . . . . from three years on
Total attendance . . . . . . . . . . . .187,622

Leadership statistics show that not all Outpost
Centers are provided with full-time recreation
leadership. Specialists visit some of the centers on
a regular schedule. The per capita cost of service
per contact between January I and September 30
of 1945 was $0424. The per capita cost of service
per registration for the same period of time was
$1.3I8. In the nine months $7,899.53 was spent
and an additional $1,402.86 was estimated as nec—
essary for the rest of the year. The total figure
for the year’s operation, therefore, would be

$9,302.39.

The chief advantage in operating Outpost Cen-
ters is the remarkable extension of service possi-
ble and the increased usefulness of existing public

buildings. In the case of outpost work, John Doe
is the real beneficiary.

Britain Plans for Recreation

01:12 Our of every five peo—
F ple in the British Isle:-

live in towns. That is the
extent of urbanization in this crowded island, in
which the working hours of so many people are so
largely devoted to manufacturing articles out of
raw materials imported from overseas.

It is a fact that has given rise to much concern
in Britain itself, for many reasons. _It means, for
example, that while there has been a great advance
in living conditions generally, the townsmen and
townswomen and the children of the town are cut
off from one of the best ways of maintaining
health, efficiency and happiness—
recreation in the open air. It does
not matter greatly what form that
recreation takes, whether it be
leisurely walks through pleasant
country, strenuous hikes over
moorland, stiff mountain climb-
ing, or participation in sports
such as football, cricket, tennis,
swimming, or golf.

Space Congestion in Britain

The sad fact has to be admit-
ted, however, that in the towns
and cities of Britain today there
is just not sufficient open space to
make participation in games pos-
sible for more than a third of
those who wish to take part in
them. In London, for example,
the London County Council has
to limit‘each cricket club to the
use of any given pitch for six
games a season, while every foot-
ball club is restricted to the use
of a pitch for seven games in the
season.

That was a serious problem be-
fore the 1939—45 war. It will be—
come much more serious now if,
as is believed, increased produc-
tion per man per hour in the fac-
tories leads to the possibility of an
even shorter working week than
the forty—seven-hour-week com-

634

By GILBERT MCALLISTER
Member of Parliament for Rutherglen

monly enjoyed before the war.
The recreation problem will
become more acute as the in-
dustrial workers obtain more and more leisure.

Standards for Areas

Fortunately, considerable attention has been
given to the matter, particularly by an influential
organization known as the National Playing Fields
Association. In the United States of America,

A maypole on the school playgrounds

I '

 

RECREATION

BRITAIN PLANS FOR RECREATION 035

town planning experts recommend a minimum pro—
vision of public Open space of five acres per thou-
sand of the population. The National Playing
Fields Association recommends a minimum of six
acres per thousand in Britain. Ideally eight acres
should, they say, be provided—five acres (to be
made up of four acres devoted to team and other
games, and one acre for gardens and amenity pur-
poses generally) and a further three acres of playing
fields per thousand of the population for colleges,

schools, private sports clubs, and the recreation
grounds of industrial firms.

London of the Future

Today, in eight of the largest cities of Britain
the total open space provided is rather less than
two acres per thousand of the population, but in
the new plans, steps are being taken to correct
this. In Professor Sir Patrick Abercrombie’s Plan
for the County of London, for example, provision
is made for seven acres of open space for every
thousand of the population. Of these, four acres
will be located in the County of London itself, the

remaining three acres in the Green Belt which is to
set a limit to the expansion of London and which
will be permanently reserved for agriculture, rec-
reation and the quiet enjoyment of the country-
side.

This is a bold plan but is not unrealizable. It
will be integrated too, with other proposals now
under consideration for the provision of National
Parks, coastal reservations, and the preservation
of places of special beauty.

Within the town itself, the new playing field
spaces will make provision for every section of the
community. For small children there will be’a
number of small playgrounds equipped with simple
gymnastic apparatus, where youngsters may play
safely away from traffic. For children of ten years.
and over it is expected that suitable playing space
will be provided by the education authorities in
playing fields attached to the schools themselves.
That would be in line with traditional British
methods. For adolescents and others who require
larger areas for team games, pitches and other

(Continued on page 666)

Britishers play billiards in the village college game room

MARCH 1946

 

Derby Day in Burbank

By ARTHUR J. JACKSON and Wooo GLOVER

this winter under the joint sponsorship of the

Burbank Y’s Men’s Club (Men’s Service Club
of the Y.M.C.A.) and the Burbank City Schools
Playground Department. It was generally felt that
this derby was a successful experience despite the
dearth of such materials as wheels and axles. How-
ever, in order to insure the success of the venture,
it was necessary to interpret and promote the idea
throughout the community.

The value of 'this kind of activity is, of course,
recreational from the standpoints of participants
and spectators, of the skill practiced in construct-
ing the cars and the value of boy-father coopera—
tion. \Ve felt, too, that the derby was valuable
because it gave various city agencies and depart-
ments an Opportunity to work together. Five mem-
bers of the police department, for example, pa—
trolled the course and helped out in other ways.
Other agencies c00perating were the Street De-
partment, Public Service Department, and City
Schools—through which publicity and information
were distributed to the participants.

THE FIRST SOAP Box DERBY in this area was held

Organization

The Y’s Men’s Club,
under its president, initi-
ated the idea of the Soap
Box Derby and its or-
ganization was carried on
through this club. Inci—
dentally, the event proved
to be of great value to
the club itself because it
fostered group morale.
The club was divided into
nine committees with
every member working on
one or more aspects of
the project. The func-
tions of these committees
were as follows:

The Rules Committee
met first for the purpose
of setting up rules and

‘.“ HI.

636

specifications to be followed by the contestants.
National Soap Box Derby rules were adopted and
mimeographed booklets were made up for distri-
bution. This committee was also in charge of in-
spection of cars and the interpretation of rules.

Inspection of cars began' two weeks before derby
day so that the boys would have an opportunity to
make any necessary changes. Final last minute
inspections were made in the two-hour period im-
mediately preceding the preliminary races. Valu-
able suggestions to this committee were made by
the Los Angeles County Parks and Recreation
Department.

Another duty of the Rules Committee was to
establish the method of running off the races. It
was arranged to have preliminary runs between
10 :00 A. M. and noon. Each contestant was given
two preliminary runs and his best time was re-
corded by the registrar. Elimination heats were
set up for the final events in the afternoon between

Line-up for the finals

 

RECREATION

DERBY DAY IN BURBANK 637

 

They're OFF!

2:00 and 4:00, and the contestants ceded on the
bracket according to qualifying time made in the
preliminaries. At the quarter finals in each divi-
sion the three first places were selected on the
basis of best time.

The C ourse Committee was assigned the difficult
job of selecting the hill to be used. A 1,280 foot
course was marked off on a smooth, concrete pave-
ment. This street was divided into three six-foot
lanes using conventional lime liners borrowed from
the Athletic Department of the Burbank City
SchOols. A truck was obtained to bring cars and
drivers from the finish line, around the block, to
the starting line.

The Promotion Committee was felt to be a key
one, particularly in this first year. This committee
distributed the rules pamphlets and entry blanks
through the school playground department in the
high school, junior high schools, and the element-

MARCH 1946

ary schools playgrounds, and through Hi-Y Clubs.
Motion pictures of soap box derbies held in other
districts were obtained and shown in boys’ assem-
blies at the various schools, with opportunities for
questions after the show. A steady stream of ‘news
articles and pictures were sent to the local news-
papers with information concerning the event. Ar-
rangements were made for the display of trophies
in centrally located store windows in the business
district with suitable promotional signs.

Probably the most important work of this com—
mittee was making calls at the homes of the con-
testants during the last two or three weeks pre-
ceding the race to encourage and assist the boys
and their fathers in any difficulties. A shop teacher
at one of the junior high schools helped contest-
ants in need of mechanical assistance.

The Awards Committee selected and purchased
(Continued on page 669)

Living Memorials in the Recreation Field

URING THE next ten years
D communities all over the

world will be spending millions of dollars 0n
war memorials. Small groups in many communi—
ties are already making plans. Unless there is to
be duplication and a crop of unsymbolic, unusable
and -ugly memorials, there must be intelligent
action by community leaders now.

Although statues as war memorials are declin—
ing in favor, sentiment for them is stillastrong.
Groups advocating statues fail to realize that
only the best stirs appreciation, that even the best

usually shows an unreal, glamorized war and, ‘

moreover, that-:neglected statues already burden
the land.

The idea of having the memorial serve the living
received great impetus after World \Var I and
resulted in several fine auditoriums, swimming
pools, stadiums, libraries, hospitals, parks, play—
grounds, and recreation buildings. Many living
memorials, however, were white elephants. The
desire to have living memorials is now stronger
than before—as is the t_end_enéy.-to produce white
elephants! This is howriwhiteglephants are born.

Recently a veterans group in a small city de—
cided to build a living memorial for their boys.
To raise funds, benefit games, beneht dances and
benefit sales are being staged. The good people
are exhausting themselves to build what they think
will be something wonderful. The blueprints, how-
ever, call for a queer looking little building—a
building entirely inadequate for recreation or even
for meetings. Moreover, the building is to be for
veterans only; young men who worked long hours
on the home front are to be
excluded. No provisions

 By HOWARD JOHNSTON

be memorialized. Those who gave.'
. their lives should certainly re-

ceive first honor. However, great honorhshoiflg -
also to those who were disabled. ‘Morebvier, harp

should go to all those in the armed forces and for;
all those on .the home fronp. who gave of them‘ ,1

selves unreservedly to the cofnnion cause. It was
this spirit of devotion to a common goal that has
opened the possibility of freedom, justice and
abundani living for everybody. This tremfendous,
world-wide effortntoward the successful omple-
tion of a great obiective is our finest war" feritage
and is what shoulijiifbe symbolized in war me—
morials.  33

Memorials should; challenge every generation
to face the giganticr'problems of community de-
ve10pment and world unity with the same devo-
tion and united effort achieved in this war.

A recreation. facility, especially a recreation
building or recreation park, can best memorialize
this spirit and these people. First, it serves the
recreational aspect of community living———serves a
“good thing,” and “end” for which we fought.
Second, it can serve all ages and all groups along
lines which are creative, expressive and unifying.
Third, it can serve to increase tolerance and bring
better understanding of other nationalities, there—
by lessening the probability of another war. Fourth,
it will receive more wholehearted backing than any
other memorial proposal.

To assure that the recreation facility will fulfill
its mission, correct principles must be followed.
The needs of the community must be thoroughly
considered. A comprehensive survey might be nec-

essary. The recreation pro-
gram—its character, extent

have been made for pro-
gram, leadership or main-
tenance. It is easy to pre-
dict that if this building is
used at all it will be as a
loaling place for less ambi-
tious veterans and that many
good people will be sadly
disappointed.

To avoid all this the start-
ing point must be to deter-
mine who and what are to

638

Howard Johnston speaks with authority

on the subject of war memorials. For he
is one of "those in the armed services . . .
who gave of themselves unreservedly to
the common cause."

Now on the staff of the National Recre-
ation Association. Mr. Johnston was but re-
cently discharged from the Army with the
rank of major after serving three years in
the Pacific with the 43rd Infantry Division.
first as a machine-gun platoon leader and
then as Division 5 ecial Services Officer.
Before going into tEe Army he was Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Centralia, Illinois.

and range of activities—~—
should be studied and plan-
ned. Does the community
need a bigger indoor sports
program? How about com-
munity-wide drama, music,
crafts, photography, social
recreation? Are both the
participation and apprecia-
tion aspects of these fields
developed as much as they

( C onrin-ucd on page 667)

RECREATION

The Ways of the People

HEN THE FIRST National

Folk Festival was held

twelve years ago in St.
Louis, Missouri, we were in
the depths of a great depression, bowed down with
national economic problems. On the heels of that
depression came World War II. *‘ ‘ 

Almost overnight we changed from a nation-of
isolationists to champions of international coopera-
tion.. All at once the need for understanding the
peoples of the world dawned upon us. We became
aware of the necessity for developing mutual ap-
preciation among the varied races and nationalities
that call the United States home. Gradually we
have come to see that the wealth of deep-seated
folk traditions, transplanted here from other lands
furnish a key to the understanding of our own
.varied people and the peoples of the world.

The National Folk Festival has been one of the
ways of demonstrating, these living traditions as
they are put to the uses of culture and recreation.
Many of the people who took part in the National
Festival came to it from community festivals.
Eighteen v small gatherings in the Arkansas and
Missouri, Ozark's'; four regional festivals in‘Ten-
nessee, thirty in Texas communities, 200 in. the
Spanish Amiarican and Anglo communities of New
Mexico were set up at various times as means of
finding talent for the larger-scale activities.

By SARAH GERTRUDE KNOTT
Founder and Director
National Folk Festival

The younger generation once
looked with scorn upon these
“old timey” recreational
forms, but now many of them
are dancing and singing with pride in the cherished
heritage of their fathers. Writers, poets, artists of all
kinds recognize that here is a fountain source upon
which to draw for inspiration and pattern in crea-
tive work. Educators see its value in community
activities for breaking down prejudices and realiz-
ing a more genuine national democracy. Recrea-
tion leaders, music and dance teachers are incor-
porating folk songs, music and dances into their
program as never before.

Need for Standards

There is much activity, but if there is to be
lasting value from all this interest, thought must
be given to setting common standards among fes-
tival leaders, recreation directors and teachers. As
long as folk activities were confined to those who
had inherited the expressions, this was not so
necessary. Up to the present time our folk tradi-
tions have, in the main, been carried on as un-
conscious arts by those who inherited them. The
changing picture of life in the United States, the
onward sweep of new civilization makes the con-
scious approach toward revival and teaching nec-
essary, as it has been in older countries‘in similar

 

But, as the need for recre- ,, a, transitional periods between
ation for young and old be-  ,_, pioneer and “grown-up”
came more insistent, the “’ ‘ ' days.1
community p1 an assumed The,National Folk FestivalI held annually The interest apparent to-

except during the war years, has done muc

importance for its own sake.
If enough properly planned
local festivals were held in
different communities the
whole country would be-
come more conscious of the
value and the significance of
folk traditions. Widespread
interest could do much to
hold these traditions of the
past for the uncertain future.

New Interest
bl' h d ' th
On every hand we see Pu '5 e m e

evidences of the first gen-
eral awakening of interest.

MARCH 1946

to make the people of the United States
conscious of their varied cultural background.
This year the Festival will be held in Cleve-
land, OhioI May 2l-25 under the auspices
of Western Reserve University
Cleveland Sesqui—Centennial Commission.

Local and regional folk festivals. too, can
help make Americans aware of the customs
and cultures of many lands that have come
into our ways of living. Sarah G. Knott.
Founder and Director of the National Folk
FestivalI speaks with authority on the local
scene. Her comments on these pages are
reprinted by permission from an article

California Folklore
Quarterly and titled "The National Folk
Festival After Twelve Years."

 

day is likely to pass as a
fad unless leaders uphold
standards of authenticity,
unless we see more than
temporary activity in folk
presentations. Just how to
create and put into Opera-
tion a plan for guiding and
directing this new interest,
to maintain standards with-
out too much standardiza-

and the

 

I. The Community Folk Festival
Handbook is a step toward setting
up some kind of standards. It is
based on the experiences of the lead-
on m the National Folk Festival
movement. It is published by the
Evening Bulletin Folk Festival A&
sociation, Bulletin Building, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania.

639

640 THE WAYS OF PEOPLE

tion is a problem not only of the community fes-
tivals, but of the National Festival as well.

England and America

In England the revival and teaching plan has
been in use for about thirty—live years. Common
standards have been set for leaders. There is the
inspiration of a common goal. But England and
the United States have decidedly different prob—
lems. The size of our country, the greater variety
of types of our folk expressions, the individuality
of our leaders, and the newness of our folk inter-
ests, make our problem more complex and chal-
lenging than England’s.

If plans could be made so that those newly in-
terested could share the experience, knowledge and
standards set up by festival directors who are steep—
ed in traditional lore, much more good could be
accomplished for the community. At Erst, academic
folklorists worked independently without a com—
mon plan of procedure. Gradually, a plan evolved
and standards were set, made up of experiences of
those who had worked in the field. Undoubtedly
the time is ripe for festival leaders to attempt to
set common and genuine standards in the use of
folk expressions, as folklorists have already done
in scholarly work in collecting, recording, and
analyzing them.

The Pattern of Folk Materials

For the first several years the National Festivals
were held, we were conscious only of enjoyment—
of color,'variety, the differences of the Songs, music
and dances on the programs. As time has passed
and we have seen the varied groups over and over
again, in community and national festivals, a gen—
eral pattern has unfolded into which many of the
folk expressions fall, regardless of the color of the
participants or the nations from which they come.
We have recognized more similarities. we are
convinced that something universal runs through-
out the traditions of many of the groups, proving
fundamental kinship. The costumes vary, the ill—
explicable differences of character and tempera—
ment are revealed, the details of execution differ,
but the basic similarities in origin, pattern and sub-
ject reflect the same elemental urges. We could
cite any number of examples of the fundamental
similarities we believe we have found which unite
rather than divide our people.

But too many of those people still retain Old
World animosities here in the new land. Old
Americans sometimes feel that our new Ameri-

 

.'.- s, ‘.
12“}.- ‘. .‘vhg; - ' A
_ “V n) .
W.‘ . ' 7 +

7.

Early American scene re-enac’red in Philadelphia. Pa.

cans do not have the same stake or deserve the
same fortune as descendants of early colonists.
There are those among us who foster and kindle
prejudices based on racial, ethnic or religious dif-
ferences. We must somehow find a common
ground of mutual respect, measuring up to our
fathers’ belief that “all men are created equal.”
Just how to do this is recognized by many as one
of the most serious postwar problems. Folk ac—
tivities cannot solve it, but democratic use of them
can help to do so.

RECREATION

THE WAYS OF PEOPLE 641

Better acquaintance with folk traditions and
what they mean to those who possess them, in-
' evitably improves the capacity to deal with peo-
ples. \Ve now recognize this fact and are making
plans for international cultural relations to help us
deal more intelligently with the peoples of other
nations. If we know these deeply rooted myths,
legends, fairy tales, proverbs, superstitions, folk
songs, music and dances we have a basis of under-
standing the people to whom they belong. If we
fully appreciate the wealth of folk traditions which
have poured into our country from all over the
world the peoples of every nation will be under-

standable.

Patterns from Other Countries

During the years that interest in the festival
movement was developing in the United States,
other nations, large and small, were initiating na-
tional folk festival movements, encouraging inter-
change of folk expressions among the people of
their countries. The war was responsible for added
stimulation. When danger to the old way of life
was threatened in many countries people saw the
necessity, not only to protect boundary lines, politi-
cal and economic systems, but to maintain the
more intangible manifestations of the spirit of the
nations as found in folk songs, music and dances.

Since 1911 National Folk Festivals have been
held in England. Since that date, too, England has
carried on a “teaching and showing” program. In
1935 the English Folk Dance and Song Society
played host to the first international Folk Dance
Festival which was held in London. Eighteen
European nations participated. One of its objec—
tives was the encouragement of friendships among
the pe0ples of Europe through interchange of folk
dances. That particular effort toward interna-
tional understanding was not immediately effect-
ive. Yet, it was the beginning of a significant
movement. Succeeding international festivals were
held in Hungary and in Sweden. Then war came.
Even while England was fighting for her life the
English Folk Dance and Song Society carried on
the nucleus of their national project and made
postwar plans for closer cooperation and inter-
change of folk songs, music and dances among the
folk groups of other European nations, especially
among those whose governments were given a
home in exile in England. “The tougher life be-
comes,” said these Englishmen, “the more neces-

sity we see for preserving all the elements of our
culture.”

MARCH 1946

Since 1933, Russia has especially encouraged
the republics of the Soviet Union to preserve the
traditional heritages of the multi—national cultures
that make up the Union. Folk Dance and Song
Festivals have been held in different communities
of the various republics, and from these represen-
tative groups were sent to Moscow for a great na—
tional event. Soviet officials recognize that these
democratic festivals have played a most important
part in developing that unity and understanding
among more than a hundred national groups in the
Soviet Union which astounded the world in recent
years. Throughout the country the old minstrels
and other untrained folk artists are highly honored
and always encouraged. Folk expressions belong
to no one class. They permeate Russian life. The
current offer to exchange typical Russian folk
pictures and other materials with folk leaders in
our country, is definitely an effort to establish

_better mutual understanding as a basis for future
relations between the Soviet and our country.

If we doubt the part folk traditions can play in
uniting people and keeping alive national spirit,
we have only to remember Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Lithuania, Hungary, and other small European
nations that have been divided and subdivided
every few generations for centuries. Folk expres-
sions, often reflecting some great period of history,
always revealing the spirit of the past, have done
more than anything to give modern people a pride
in background, to bind them together and make
them feel that the future is worth fighting for.

We, in the United States, cannot afford to over-
look the significant part folk traditions have played
in older countries. We should not fail to see the
trend of the present. If we are wise we shall, like
the two-headed Roman god Janus, look back at the
same time we look forward. We should bring to
the present the best of the cultural life of all of
our people, to serve us as we lead out as one of the
world’s great cultural and spiritual ambassadors.
we face the uncertain future of a highly developed,
scientific age, with the boundary lines of nations
broken down. In that future we now know that we
must depend upon more than military power to
keep the peace. The much talked of “new broth-
erhood” must become a reality. Cultural and
spiritual activities must be given consideration for
they are forces that bind nations together in a
universal community of peace.

We are testing one of the world’s greatest ex-
periments in democracy, attempting to prove to

_( C Oiitiriued on page 673)

 

  Lively
 5

the only really living people that have been

left to us in an overweary world.” This
penetrating observation, along with others of equal
wisdom, was quoted yesterday in The Times Book
Review, by J. Donald Adams, and was uttered
some years ago by Kenneth Grahame, the author.
Grahame coupled it, when he made the remark,
with a quotation from Walt Whitman: “To me,
every hour of the day and night is an unspeakably
perfect miracle.” This is something, according to
Grahame, that any normal child will instinctively
agree with.

We agree with it also, summing up as it does
so well the exuberant enthusiasm of childhood, a
source of infinite pleasure to all who behold it at
close range, and, we may as well admit it, a reason
why parents grow old and careworn before their

time.

11 CHILDREN ARE NOT merely people; they are

The Day of a Child

There is good reason to believe that the en—
thusiasms of a small boy will outrun those of his
sister, although some will want to argue the point.
He is an early riser and inclined to be a noisy one.
His zeal for getting up, however, does not extend
to immediate dressing and preparation for school.
He must be driven to that later by exhortation and
denunciation. He may, if he senses any early
morning weakness, trot stealthin downstairs and
fix himself a bowl of cereal to dull the edge of ap—
petite, but soon he is back in his room again ready
to start an unceasing and multitudinously varied
round of activity that will not flag until he is
pushed into bed again at night.

It is interesting to observe that his first acts in
the morning are often, if not usually, a continua-
tion of what he left off the night before, unless that
happened to be homework. He will be working
with his stamp collection, reading or devising a
new card trick, long before adults in the household

642

Our

Children

Prints by Gedge Harmon

 

drag themselves reluctantly out of bed to start the
new day.

Placid Breakfast Hour

By the time he sits down at the breakfast table
he will have reduced to new chaos and disorder his
room which he was forced to straighten before
retiring; he will have listened to a few programs
on the radio and brought himself abreast of the
news to a limited extent by broadcast and Page 1.

He will have no part of the adult philosophy
that breakfast is a time for moody and solitary
contemplation. He is bursting with new ideas and

.abstruse questions, an ardent conversationalist and

a reluctant listener. He has pronounced ideas
about what should be on the breakfast menu and
is quick to voice his displeasure when it doesn’t
come up to specifications. Hot cakes or waffles
are his particular pleasure, but anything a little
difficult or time-consuming to prepare will do a
well. '

His enthusiasms do not extend to brushing his
teeth, washing his face and combing his hair, and
his mother is likely to be in a state of exhaustion,
ere the day is well begun, by the time she has put
him into rubbers, a coat of proper weight and a
cap to start the trip to school.

The Day at School

Only a teacher can properly pay tribute to the
inexhaustible energies of a young boy in the
schoolroom, but enough of the tale is carried home
to {ill in the picture. This may entail some spit-
ball throwing; a tussle in the cloakroom in which
a front tooth is broken off ; the canvassing of the
entire school faculty with some magic age cards to
determine the hitherto carefully safeguarded ages
of all the teachers; a disciplinary trip to the prin-
cipal’s office to discuss soberly the right approach
to learning, and finally wind up with a street light

(Continued on page 672)

RECREATION

Kingsley House Goes on the Air

By NANCY EVANS

Program Director. Kingsley House
New Orleans. Louisiana

able to do with it? But there

it was, a chance to tell the world

all about our Movie Club and the

work its members were doing in

:. c00peration with a civic organi-
zation, putting on a weekly children’s movie pro-

gram at Kingsley House. It was too good a chance
to miss.

That was in November, 1944, over a year ago.
What a time it was! Should the staff write the
script? Should members write it? Who on earth
would be in it? Was there anyone who had ever
bem before a microphone? Could we get someone
to advise us? Wasn’t it too sudden? We had only
two weeks! What could we tell about the Movie
Club that would be of interest to an early morning
listening public? These and many other questions
came up and were discussed by staff, movie club
members and any one else who would listen.

The result of all this talk and commotion and
excitement was our first radio script, written by a
staff member who was the leader of the Movie
Club and could consult with its members after each
sentence. It was called The Show Goes On, not
a very original title, but highly significant to those
who were working on it. And it did “go on.”
When it was over, one look at the faces of the
Movie Club boys who had broadcast it told the
staff that here was a wonderful experience that
meant a great deal to all who had anything to
do with it. And so, by mutual consent, we
asked the radio station for further time on
the air. To our surprise we got it—fifteen
minutes once a month.

The fiush of our recent“ experience quickly
faded before the realization of the responsi-
bility we had undertaken. Our first attempt
had shown us how little we knew of radio
techniques. We needed organization and
knowledge to get the most out of the experi-
ence that was ahead of us. What was the
best way to go about it? What sort of sub-

P IFTEEN MINUTES on the air!
, F What on earth would we be
Ike

    

MARCH 1946

ject matter should we use? What would be the
purposes which would justify the use of fifteen
minutes of the radio’s time each month?

The staff agreed on certain objectives. Our
chief concerns were the members who participated,
the settlement, and the listening public, in that
order. We had already seen signs to prove that
radio was a stimulating experience. We knew that
it was a perfect means for broadening experience
and a wonderful opportunity for informal teaching
along many lines. That it was an excellent way to
improve public relations was apparent. The list-
ening public, as yet an unknown quantity, would
prove the effectiveness of the work we were un—
dertaking. And we knew that this was a long time
project, which would require the development of
skills and the acquisition of knowledge, as well as
much learning by trial and error.

Four scripts written by various staff members
dramatized subjects which were directly or in-
directly connected with the work of the settlement
or the neighborhood in which it is located. One
was written around the Toy Library Club and its
service to the community in lending toys to chil-
dren in the same manner that libraries lend books.
It was called Toys to Lend. In another the history
of the settlement house was described, and the
various buildings at Kingsley House were allowed
to speak of their past. The story of a famous
woman of New Orleans, whose excellent business

(Continued on page 666)

 

643

What They Say About Recreation

N NE BUILDING of the structure is only the be-

Tginning. Its yield in richness of life must be

the ultimate test of its value to human
beings.”—Porfer R. Lee.

“The greatest challenge to educators today is to
teach our people how to use leisure time in a whole-
some and constructive way.”—Hngh F. Baker.

“America is different. ‘We must remember this;
and we must emphasize it. We can live and play
together; and the more we play together, the more
we shall understand each other and be willing to
cooperate for national unity.”—Dr. James M.

Yard.

“Play should never appear as a duty, but as
something pursued joyously, spontaneously, with
enthusiasm, to give color and richness and mean-
ing to life.”—-—Earnest Ehno Calkins.

“Leisure is an economic investment, and out of
it will come new industries in the field of recrea-
tion, and opportunities for intellectual and spirit—
ual advancement. Industry faces a new challenge
today—the development of all human values.”—
Frances Perkins.

“Intellectual and cultural pursuits stand out as
leisure-time pursuits of great importance. Meager
indeed are the lives of those who have developed
no appreciation of the artistic and aesthetic side of

life.”-——Jesse F. Steiner.

“Youth is responsive to unusual and novel ap-
peals. It has curiosity and it is experimental.
Youth tends to make independent appraisals and
thus form its own judgments. . . . And youth has,
for the most part, an instinctive sense of justice.”

—Chesfer H. McCail.

“Leisure is what you make it. It may be your
greatest blessing or your greatest curse. You
determine its quality, and its quality also deter-
mines you. In the old era, the job determines the

worker. In the new era, leisure determines the
man.”-—W alter B. Pitkin.

644

“Perhaps one of the most significant ways of
relating our leisure to living in its richest sense is
through hobbies, avocational interests that some-
times become vocational, interests that grow as
we grow.”——From Hobbies.

“Unemployment is not leisure. Leisure should
be without fear, without worry; it should be the
hour of joy—satisfying joy resulting from a con-
sciousness of work well done, as a contribution to
society, whether it is in the form of manual labor
or in the form of a song."-——Dor0th_v C. Enderis.

“The media for the expression of art are innu—
merable, and the forms of art are inexhaustible;
they are enhanced by use and lost only when
ignored.”-—]ohn IV. Higgins.

“In times like these it is necessary for us to hold
fast to the belief that the great tradition of knowl—
edge and beauty is not the exclusive privilege of
the elite, and to devote ourselves unremittineg to
making this cultural heritage available in the full—
est possible measure to the greatest number of our
people."——George E. V z'neent.

“Play is one of the most important Spiritual
forces in the world. Bottle up the play life of boys
and girls, or let it be perverted to evil ends, and
we have hurt their characters beyond any power
of preaching to undo the wrong.”—Harry Emer-
son Fasdick.

“If education for leisure is to succeed there must
be more and better facilities for handcraft, dra-
matics, music, reading and the rest. They must be
brought into neighborhoods where people live.”—
C'Iarenre E. Sheri-nan.

“The kind of pleasures you enjoy indicates the
kind of person you are. Pleasures shared are likely
to be among the finer sort. . . . ‘When the race has
learned the art of enjoyment, it will unlearn the
disposition to harm.”—Dr. l/Viiiiani Hocking.

“It is dangerous for people to be without joy.
In such soil the most frightful excesses grow up
like cabbagcs.”—Robert Nathan.

RECREATION

Recreation Activities

in

San Francisco's Housing Developments

ment between the Recre-

ation Department and the
San Francisco Housing Au-
thority, insofar as we are able to determine, is
unique. At the time of the opening of the first
housing project in San Francisco in 194I the Rec—
reation Department, at the request of the Hous»
ing Authority, assumed responsibility for recrea-
tion in all housing developments in San Francisco
where usable facilities are available. With the
growth of defense housing and the tremendous
development at Hunter’s Point, responsibility and
opportunities to serve increased at an unprece-
dented rate.

At the present time the Recreation Department
Operates centers in fourteen housing developments
and in the adjoining areas. Attendance at these
centers averages around 55,000 to 65,000 monthly,
depending on the season of the year. Centers are
open under supervision for at least twelve hours a
day (fourteen hours on Fridays and Saturdays)
and on Sundays where the centers are unoccupied
by churches.

Originally we were not called into the planning
of recreational facilities. However, during the past
two years we have participated in all planning for
recreational areas and the huge new Hunter’s
Point Gymnasium. The Housing Authority has
signified its intention of asking our participation
in restudying plans for new permanent develop—
ments completed before the war with a view to
making them give maximum recreational service
in so far as finances and space make this possible.

TH E COOPERATIVE agree—

Experience—Satisfactory

The experience in San Francisco has been satis-
factory in its present setup. This is.particularly
true when the rapid and enormous expansion is
considered in the light of required services and
lack of trained or experienced leadership. Right
now, nearby cities are facing a tremendous prob—
lem in the continued need for service and the

MARCH 1946

By JOSEPHINE RANDALL

SuperintendentI Recreation Department
San Francisco' California

withdrawal of Lanham Act
Funds.

During the present fiscal
year we were granted a bud-
get through tax funds of $75,681 for recreation in
defense of housing deveIOpments alone. This does
not include our services in the three centers serv-
ing permanent housing developments as money
for these centers was already set up in our budget.

At the close of the fiscal year 1944-1945 we had
completed two years of service at Hunter’s Point.
At a time when trained leadership was acutely
needed it was not available. In order to meet this
situation a continuous in-service training course
was carried out weekly during the entire year.
Toward the end of the period several qualified
Negro men and women had gained their required
year’s residence and it was possible to obtain their
essential services.

Special Problems

\Vithin very recent months Japanese—Americans
returning from re-location centers have been
housed at the Southgate Development, a unit de-
signed for dormitory purposes. Hundreds of these
citizens of San Francisco, unable to find housing,
are placed under War Re-location Authority’s
supervision in this area. We are trying to serve
this group at the Southgate Center along with
others who live in the area. Our problems have
been complicated by the fact that the cultural pat—
terns of the two main groups served, Negro and
Japanese, in this particular area have been widely
divergent.

Where the housing development is not isolated,
it has been quite possible to serve both the housing
development and the neighborhood to the benefit
of both groups. There seems to be no distinction
between residents of the projects and the sur-
rounding areas.

Where the housing development is isolated it
has been very difficult to erase distinctions between
project tenants and people in other neighborhoods.

645

'N

646 RECREATION ACTIVITIES IN SAN FRANCISCO’S HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS

In the two-and-a—half—year period the Recrea-
tion Department faced unprecedented expansion in
facilities and services needed in defense housing
developments. The period brought an era which,
in this particular area, has been highly explora—
tory and experimental. The problems which arise in
the integration of racial groups and in attempts to
bring recreational services to twenty—five thousand
persons, most of whom are newcomers to our city
and state and are concentrated in one fairly isolated
district, are often involved. Acquainting people
without previous experience of opportunities for
' organized recreation activities has been deeply
' challenging.

- There are many areas of service which remain
untouched, but foundations have been laid for
future expansion in recreation activities that will
stand even under considerable stress. Some stand-
ar'ds that are fundamental to the success of our
' program have been developed and accepted. A
nucleus of staff members with experience in this
new field is now at work.

Challenges

Among the challenging and interesting problems .

_ presented are the following:

1. Dormitories have housed not only men of all ages,
but many young «boys sixteen and seventeen years of
age and older.

2. The great majority of boys were far from home
for the first time and have had earning capacity far
beyond that involved in any previous working ex-
perience. Employment for
this group is now rapidly
diminishing.

 

essential, it has been most difficult to obtain. The
rate of pay for new staff members remains at $165
per month, when highly trained, experienced and
skilled services are essential.

7. Civil Service regulations requiring a year’s resi-
dence in San Francisco have made it most difficult
to obtain the services of qualified Negro leaders.
This condition has eased during the last six months

as residence has been achieved 1by some qualified
persons.

8. With few exceptions recreation leadership in hous—
ing developments is offered twelve hours daily, six or
seven days a week. This procedure is unique in the
Recreation Department and creates additional per-
sonnel problems. I

9. Several centers operate on a seven-day week
schedule.

10. With the exception of centers serving dormitory
residents, recreation centers serve all age groups;
pre-school children -—teen-agers, and adults of all
ages. From the standpoint of program, this situa-
tion is challenging indeed, especially when facilities
and outdoor area5«are limited.

Each center provides a light spacious game
room with facilities for pool, table tennis, check—
ers, chess, and many table games. The scope of
the program covers a wide range of activities.

Many Values

The values resulting from provision of recrea-
tion leadership, facilities, and programs are many.
Newcomers are more content. This is especially
true in defense housing. 'Adults find a sense of
security in a small, local, social situation or ac-
tivity which often is not felt
in a large community. Par—

. Many adults were sepa-
rated for the hrst time
from their immediate
families and have lived in
situations which are un-
familiar in every way.

. Negro and white men and
women work together, eat
in the same cafeterias, and
are housed in identical
facilities for the first time
in their lives.

NOTE: Many of these peo-
ple, both white and Ne-

gro, come from the deep
South.

. The leisure time of work-

ers varies according to the
shift on which they are

employed.

6. At a time when leadership

of the highest calibre is

Many communities facing continued and
serious shortages in housing and the with-
drawal of Lanham Act Funds are hard put
to it to provide proper recreation facilities
in wartime housing developments. In San
Francisco the Recreation Department and
the housing development authorities have
worked out a cooperative plan that is
agreeable to both parties.

Miss Josephine Randall, Superintendent
of San Francisco's Recreation Department.
explained the current setup for delegates
to the twenty-eighth National Recreation
Congress. Her talk is given here in full so
that those recreation workers who were not
able to hear Miss Randall may know what San
Francisco is doing in this matter. A summary
of the section meeting on recreation in
housing developments will appear in the
Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Na-
tional Recreation Congress which is sched-
uled for release in late March or early April.

 

ents are relieved of worry
about their children when
they are in supervised areas.
Children become adjusted
to a new community and are
happy in it when they feel

.a part of it through their

activities. Delinquency is
kept at a minimum if the
recreation program is vital.
(In the total Hunter’s Point
area during the peak of oc-
cupancy, a Juvenile Court
Report indicated fifteen of—
ficial cases during a six
months period.) Newcomers
are given new leisure time
opportunities and establish
new leisure time habits.

(Continued on page 671)

RECREATION

Playtime at Goodyear

HE WHEELS of a huge in-

dustry now turning at top

speed to meet the rubber
needs of a world again at peace
are being guided by the sure, steady hands of
nearly 17,000 employees who have learned to work
and play hard. In Akron, Ohio, the Goodyear Tire
& Rubber Company is continuing to expand an
extensive program of education and recreation
that has long since proved its worth in increased
efticiency and pleasant employe relations.

Headed by W. H. Edmund, Goodyear’s di-
rector of education and recreation, the program
embodies every phase of recreation and education
which it has been possible to integrate in the off-
duty hours of production and office workers.

By R. H. CONNOR, JR.

Public Relations Department
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company

Edmund is also president of
the National Industrial Ath~
letic Conference, organized in
Akron last June, with a po-
tential membership of twelve large mid-western in—
dustries.

Facilities—Indoors and Out

Activities center around Goodyear Hall, six
stories high and long as a city block. The Hall
was built in 1920 and in the first years of World
War II was used to house certain production de-
partments of Goodyear Aircraft Corporation. How-
ever, the building was again Opened under its
peace—time program when new space for the war

( Continued on page 668)

"Every Saturday the gymnasium is open to hundreds of boys'I

 

MARCH 1945

Leadership and Recreation

S RECREATION assumes a deeper
meaning, the role of the leader
correspondingly varies and expands. There

was a time when the leader’s duties consisted mostly
of supervising spaces, supplying and keeping in re—
pair Sport goods, initiating and directing activities.
His chief assets were a knowledge of special skills
and an ability to carry through a program. But as
the understanding of recreation and its relation to
the total personality and the modern community
emerges, the leader’s role and functions are being
revised. Good leadership of necessity includes a
knowledge of games and skills. Such knowledge
on the part of the leader stimulates the participants
and gives them the security and encouragement to
proceed on their own. The leader is first and fore-
most a resource person. It is to him that the par—
ticipants turn for help and guidance, and he must
be equipped for this role. He must know the nature
and use of materials, tools, equipment, games,
sports, arts and crafts, literature, and the numer—
ous other specialties that make up the body of rec-
reation today.

Activities and programs are the backbone and
instruments of recreation; and relationships, atti—
tudes, and desirable social patterns stem from
them. Thus recreation cannot underestimate the
importance of skills and, as we shall see later, of
administrative abilities and a sense of orderliness.
On the other hand, it cannot overlook the fact that
the leader serves also in a number of symbolic
roles.

There is no escaping the element of symbolism
in'a leader-follower relation. Even the most sophis—
ticated peeple project attributes upon the leader
and expect him .to live up to their phantasies, a
task difficult to accomplish in every-day relations.
There is, too, considerable disappointment and re-
sultant hostility if he fails. When the leader does
not live up to the ideals of his followers, they
become hostile toward him. The leader must be
at great pains not to meet this with counter—hos—
tility or he jeopardizes, or destroys, his leader-
ship role. The ability to withstand alternation of
hostility, criticism, and disapproval with enthusi—
astic approval, is a primary requisite for leader-
ship. The leader has to have the capacity to sub—-
jugate his ego to the purpose and aim of his work-

648

By S. R. SLAVSON

Frequently this is difficult, for the
basic drives of a leader usually pro-
ceed from ego needs.

The Leader as a Parental Figure

The leader is a parental figure to those whom
he supervises, whether they be children, youth, or
adults. His superior knowledge and the authority
vested in him automatically arouse responses, both
positive and negative, similar to those one has
toward a parent. Reactions differ toward male and
female teachers, and supervisors, because attitudes
toward fathers and mothers are essentially differ—
ent, and these are redirected (projected) upon the
recreational director as well. We can therefore
expect that the leader in charge will be treated by
each participant—modified by group climate and
pressures, of courseéas the latter had treated his
parent of the same sex. An individual who pre-
sents behavior problems in the home is likely to
create the same difficulties in other group situa—
tions. Groups are extensions of the home, and
attitudes toward people are extensions of the at-
titudes there. This very important principle must
be kept in mind ‘in all dealings with peOple, espe-
cially when one is in a position of authority.

The Leader as Symbol of the Adult World

The leader also symbolizes to the young partici-
pant the adult world. The young person cannot
see or comprehend that world; he makes up his
mind about it on the basis of his experiences with
individuals. If parents and teachers are cruel and
persecuting, then the world becomes a cruel one;
if they are kind and friendly, then the rest of the
world is good. This is the only way in which a
young person can judge the adult world. Some
pupils harbor great resentment against schools and
teachers, and children’s conversations are replete
with hostility.

If we are to accept and be kindly disposed
toward society and authority, we must accept and
have regard for the individuals who constitute that
authority. Since these attitudes are conditioned in
early childhood, parents, teachers, club leaders,
janitors, policemen, and others must earn the re-
spect and affection of children if we wish them to
become socially constructive and personally whole-

RECREATION

LEADERSHIP/IND RECREATION 649

some. When children and adults are made discon-
tented, resentful, and hostile because of the treat-
mcnt they receive by those in authority, they
project or transfer their feelings upon everyone
else in their environment. If repression and humili—
ation continues on the job and in everyday living,
discontent and destructiveness are further crystal—
lized and enhanced.

In a sense, then, recreationists have the job of
counteracting hostile and destructive attitudes. as
well as establishing new ones. One of their im-
portant functions is to give the participants,
whether children, youth, or adults, a happy experi-
ence. Children especially have to be convinced
that not all grown-ups are unfeeling, peremptory,
and repressive. Freedom of choice and action, a
warm personal relation, and a respectful attitude

toward them cannot but convince children of our
basic friendliness.

Dealing with Negative Attitudes

One of the major conditions for successful func-
tioning as a leader is to be able to accept hostility
and antagonism gracefully and affection objectively.
To take part in a positive relation where friendli—
ness, respect, and mutuality exist is a much simpler
matter than to withstand unreasonable and unjus-
tifiable antagonism. People can be helped most
when they can freely express these negative feel—
ings first. Frequently, even fairly “normal” per-
sons relate themselves to others through an initial
discharge of such emotions. When one is punished
or demeaned for them, he becomes alienated and
may be lost to us irreparably. But when the leader
is able gracefully to ignore the early outbursts of
hostility, the child or youth’s guilts are allayed and
he is grateful. This draws him toward the adult
'and a step in the education of emotions is taken.

Hostility and aggression
so accepted integrate the
emotions of the individual.
Instead of withholding neg-'
ative impulses for more pro-
pitious occasions, such as
discharging them against a
younger brother or a pet,
the individual is encouraged
through our tolerance to be
both positive and negative
toward the same object.
Especially when a child has

to separate the objects of
his love and his hate, inte-

 

MARCH 1946

A new bool: on recreation will appear
shortly under the imprint of the Associa-
tion Press. RECREATION is privileged to
bring to its readers a pre-publication pre-
view of a part of Recreation and the
Total Personality, by S. R. Slavson.

What Mr. Slavson has to say about rec-
reation leadership is intrinsically stimulat-
ing. It will also serve as an introduction to
a book which brings to the discussion of
recreation the experience of a man well
acquainted with the nearly related fields of
psychology and education and sociology.

gration of his psychological processes is prevented.
But when the same object serves as the recipient
of both love and hate, the two opposing emotions
become unified, and one learns to love wisely and
hate discriminately. For this reason, the good
parent_ and intelligent recreation leader is not dis-
turbed by manifestations of negative feelings, for
he recognizes in them essential steps in the develop—
ment of the child and in the maintenance of mental
health in the adult.

Aggression is acceptable when displayed in the
early stages of a relationship and later when it
appears only periodically. When negative atti-
tudes seem permanent, they point to personality
distortions requiring psychological treatment. But
here also it is essential to distinguish between
transitory eruptions of repressed, subsurface bio-
logical and psychological pressures and the per-
manent organization of character along lines of
hostility and destructiveness. In the one case, the
safety valves are functioning to establish balance
and‘health; in the other, only one vector of the
psychological complex is present, to the exclusion
of its opposite and stabilizing force.

Too strict withholding of negative impulses cre-
ates disorganization within the group as well.
Especially is this true where the leader is arbi—
trary and unjust. Frustration engenders aggres—
sion ; and when it cannot be discharged against the
frustrating object—namely, the leader—it is re—
directed (displaced) toward substitutes. In a rec-
reational program, these substitutes may be tools
and materials, furniture, the building, or other
members of the group. Where hostility intended
for the leader is expressed toward other members,
“group problems” are apt to arise. Lack of group
morale frequently stems from resentment to and
dislike of leaders. As recreationists, we do all in
our power to interpret to
children and young people
the world in which they live.
They need to become ac—
quainted with the efforts be-
ing made to correct the
many disharmonies of life
today. This must be done
honestly and straight for-
wardly; indirection and cov-
ering up what is obviously
wrong will only intensify
emotions and sharpen op-
position. Youth will respect
and cooperate with their

650 LEADERSHIP AND RECREATION

elders only when convinced of their honesty and
good will. They must be frankly told the true con-
ditions that exist today, why these conditions exist,
and what improvements are contemplated. Most
pe0ple find themselves inadequate to meet frank
criticism and do not feel free to admit shortcom-
ings. They become defensive, attempt to justify
what is, and rationalize motives. Untruths or half-
truths will not do, however. We need the frank-
ness and honesty to encourage the young to take
part in rebuilding our world. If we fail, young
people will grow alienated from us and will turn to
adventurers or reactionaries who are definite
though glib.

Adults as well need to have their views and acts
respected and appreciated. They also need to be
encouraged to participate and assume responsibil-
ity. Leaders of adults’ free-time occupations can,
through their attitudes, either extend dependence
or build self-confidence. Adults also require emo-
tional security and ego satisfactions. Like children,
they, too, act up to the standards set for them.

Even quite young children can make their own
choice of occupation and carry out their own plans
to a degree commensurate with their powers. In
this, the child always needs moral support and fre—
quently also help; but giving help should have as
its end freeing him from the need for help. A
good illustration of guidance through sympathetic
and sensitive handling of what might have proved
a difficult situation follows: _

The staff member directed one of the girls to
me. “Do you want to join the Girls’ Club?” I
asked. She answered: “Yes, but all I want to do
is swim.” And she said this out of the side of her
mouth; she was tough. I said: “That’s line. That
is all you have to do if that is what you want to
do.” She said: “All right, what do I have to pay ?”
“It will cost fifty cents.”

We took her fifty cents and gave her a ticket. I
went into the Club a few weeks later. She was
leaning against the door looking into the type-
writer room. I asked her how the pool was. She
said, “It’s swell. What are those girls doing in
there ?” I told her it was a typewriting class. She
said: “What kind of membership do you have to
have to get that?” I said: “You don’t have to have
any type of membership. Your ticket will let you
go in there too.”

She seemed to be considering that, and I went
on. . . . A few weeks later I found the girl in a
corner pecking away on a typewriter. Very soon
I noticed her in dramatics, and it was only a short

time before she was engaged in half a dozen activi-
ties; but if you had tried a two-burner gas stove
and a broom on her the first day, to make a house-
wife out of her, or said, “Come in and find expres-
sion in art,” she would not have known what you
were talking about. We try to give the youngsters
what they want first. . . .

The happy experience is the first. The possi—
bility'of real venture is the second. The third is
the possibility for recognition from one’s fellows.
We cannot withhold that recogntion unless there
is also the possibility of achievement. Those are
the things that we work with, that carry them on
into higher and better planes of activities and after
that to physical well-being.1

We have here an illustration of a good procedure
to follow. The girl’s felt need was met; she wanted
to swim and was allowed to do so. No effort was
made to impose or “encourage” her to undertake
a program or activities set by the recreation center
or the leader. These two facts gave the girl a feel-
ing of security; she would not be imposed upon or
forced into activities against her will. Being hos-
tile and rebellious, she could not, and probably
would not, have accepted a set program. Because
she felt free—not imposed upon—she did not re-
sist it, but rather became amenable to the influence
of the environment. Once this was accomplished,
she herself proceeded to expand her contacts, and
chose occupations and interests other than her first
preference, swimming. The adult accepted the girl
for what she was; she was neither limited nor
pushed in anyway. Both his attitude and language
display complete acceptance of her. The fact that
she was not scrutinized, judged, or advised gave
her a feeling of security to venture out further into
the environment. Once accepted, she felt free, less
constrained, less resistive. It is through such
reaching out toward the outside world that person-
ality grows and social attitudes develop. Through
it also character defects are corrected. The girl
probably had one of the very few friendly and con-
structive relations with an adult here. Her charac-
ter indicates that she probably was rebellious at
home, at school, and in other contacts. Being al—
lowed to make her own choice at her own pace
changed her feelings about grown-ups. She dis-
covered that they can be friendly and respectful;
one does not have to fight them. Perception of the

world generally as a result of such an experience

(Continued on page 674)

 

1 Burger, Arthur T., Proceeding: of the Thirty-third Convention
:of thel,_Boy:’.Club: of America, New York, Boys’ Clubs of
America, p. 70 (mimeognphcd).

RECREATION

Nature Study
and
Gardening

By DR. A. W. NOLAN

REAL PROGRAM of recreation in nature study
and gardening was carried out in Fort
Wayne, Indiana, during the summer of

{945. It was Sponsored by the Fort Wayne Public
Park Department. A Victory Garden Consultant
was in immediate charge of the nature study and
gardening features of the program.

The nature study part of the program began
with a called meeting of the fifty recreation lead-
ers of Fort Wayne’s many beautiful parks. At this
meeting, called by the Director of Recreation,
plans were presented for the nature study features
of the summer’s recreation program. The program
was launched under the special impetus of a
“Nature Study Week.” The following outline of
suggestions was given to each of the recreation
leaders at this meeting where they were carefully
discussed.

Nature Study Suggestions for Nature Week

I. Nature study is a direct observation of the

common things and processes of nature which
touch human life interests.

II. An appreciative knowledge of nature is as

practical and essential in education as the
“three R’s.”

III. Some objectives of nature study for younger
children are:

1. To learn the names of common objects of nature.

2. To learn some of the habitats and habits of living
things—where they live, how they feed, how they
defend themselves, and
how they reproduce.

3. To learn the use and
value of nature’s ma- try
terial to human interest.

Now is the time when all over the coun-
minds are turning to the business of

 

Print by Craig: Harmon

Much can be done toward gaining these objec-
tives because children are naturally interested in
nature.

IV. Guiding principles in nature study are:

1. First hand observation necessary.

2. Study only common things and processes that
can be observed.

3. Study nature material that has human interest
value.

V. Encourage children to have pets and domes-
tic animals, whenever feasible —— a natural
introduction to animal life by:

1. Taking a census of the group's pets.
2. Teaching the lesson of humaneness toward
animals.

VI. Some collections suggested are:

l. Insect.

. Leaves.

. Fruits and seeds.“

. Wild flowers to grow on home grounds.
Pressed flowers. -

Woods.
Old bird nests.
Stones.

VII. The life history and habits of some harmful
and some beneficial insects to be identified

and learned are:

1. Common orders of insects
—-ibugs, lbeetles, flies, bees,
butterflies, moths.

wweweww

4. To acquire permanent,
sympathetic, apprecia-
tive knowledge and in-
terest in nature—as a
source both of practical

utility and of aesthetic
pleasure.

MARCH 1946

speeding the plow and dropping the seed.
Happy indeed, at such a momentI is the
recreation department which lists a flour-
ishing program in nature study and garden-
ing. For other' less fortunate groups, who
would like to add such activities to their

programs here's a "how it was done'I
story trom’the city of Fort WayneI Ind.

2. Cornmon injurious insects
(according to their injur-
ious habits) chewing, suck-
ing, boring, disease car-
riers.

3. Common beneficial insects,
honey bee, bumble bee,

(Continued on page 670)

651

It's Being Done in Nature Recreation

Cap'n Bill's Column oi Nature-Grams

RBORETUM, School. The Evanston, Illi-
nois, Township High School has established

an arboretum devoted to native woody and herba-
ceous plants of the State. Planting was begun in
April, 1945. More than a thousand trees and

shrubs have been set out.

Aquarium. “Guide to Higher Aquarium Ani-
mals,” by Edward T. Boardman. Cranbrook Insti-
tute of Science. 107 pp. Illus. $2.

“Biological Field Stations of the World,” by
Homer A. Jack. Chronica Botanica Co., 73 pp.
Diagrams. $2.50.

. . Cabins. “Your Cabin in the Woods,” by
Conrad E. Meinecke. Foster and Stewart, Buffalo,
N. Y. $2.50. Written by a veteran scout executive.

Fishing. “The Little Fisherman,” by Margaret
\Vise Brown. William R. Scott, New York. 32
pp. Illus. $1.50. An accurate description for chil-
dren of deep sea fishing.

Gardeniw-tg. “Pay Dirt: Farming and Garden-
ing with Composts,” by J. I. Rodale. Devin—Adair
Co., New York. 242 pp. $3.

Indian Harvest. “Wild Food Plants of Ameri—
ca,” by Jannette May Lucas. Lippincott. 118 pp.
Illus. $2.

Indians. “America’s Indian Background,” by
Edwin F. Walker. Southwest Museum. 19 pp.
Map. 30 cents.

Indians. "The Iroquois: A Study in Cultural
Evolution,” by Frank Gouldsmith Speck. Cran-
brook Institute of Science. 94 pp. Illus. $1.

Indians. “The Pueblo Indian World,” by Edgar
L. Hewett and Bertha P. Dutton. University of
New Mexico Press. 176 pp. Illus. $4. The Nat—
ural History of the Rio Grande Valley in relation
to Pueblo Indian Culture. Handbook of Archae-
ological History, No. 6.

Insects is the subject for the annual $60 prize
offered by the New England Society of Natural
History, 234 Berkeley Street, Boston, Mass. The
essay must be original and unpublished research.
The competition is not restricted. The work must
be submitted by May 1, 1946.

652

JI'IBIBOJ'Oiogy. “Storms, Floods and Sunshine:
A Book of Memoirs,” by Isaac Monroe Cline.
Pelican Press. 290 pp. Illus. $3. Experiences of a
meteorologist who spent over fifty years in the

U. S. \Veather Bureau.

“Minerals of Might,” by William O. Hotch—
kiss. Cattell. 206 pp. $2.50. A history of minerals
and their influence on civilization.

M osses. “How to Know Mosses,” by Henry S.
Conard. William C. Brown. 166 pp. Illus. $2.50.
Pictured—keys for determining many of the North
American mosses and liverworts, with suggestions
and aids for their study.

Natural History. “The Lost Woods: Adven-
tures of a Naturalist,” by Edwin Way Teale.
Dodd, N. Y. 321 pp. Illus. $4.

“Rocks and Rivers of America,” by Ellis “J.
Shuler. Cattell. 300 pp. Illus. $4. Questions
about the landscape in down—to—earth language.

“Rocky Mountains, The,” by Wallace W. At—
wood. Vanguard Press, N. Y. 324 pp. Illus. $3.75.
The geology of the Rockies.

Science. “Exploring Our World,” by Samuel
Ralph Powers, Elsie Flint Neuner, Herbert Bas—
com Bruner, and John Hodgdon Bradley. Ginn
and Co. 522 pp. Illus. $1.44. Adventuring in Sci—
ence, Book I. Suggestions for individual projects.

Science, EIementary. “Let’s Find Out, a Pic—
ture Science Book,” by Herman and Nina Schnei-
der. \Villiam R. Scott, N. Y. 48 pp. Illus. $1.25.
Suggestions for simple scientific experiments using
equipment to be found in any household. \Vritten
by a teacher of physics.

,

Science. “This is Science.’ Association for
Childhood Education. 43 pp. 50 cents. Prepared
to meet a wideSpread demand by teachers. How
science may enrich the experiences of children.

“TranspIanting Trees and Shrubs.” National
Shade Tree Conference. Ohio State University.
35 cents.

-. RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

TuE STUDENTS at Dun-
bar High School in Weir—
ton, West Virginia, went
to work to raise $I6.ooo
to complete the first Negro school-owned P.T.A.
Home and Community Center in the state. Through
various community programs the money was col-
lected for the building which serves as an audi-
torium for the high school and as a community
center for adults. The building has facilities for
motion pictures, for recreation games and for serv-
ing refreshments. The center is open every day
and until 10 o’clock each night under the super-
vision of high school faculty members.

P.T.A. Home and
Community Center

THE Y.M.C.A. Motion
Picture Bureau and Look
magazine are pooling
their knowledge, their experience and their re-
sources to form a producing-distributing team that
will launch a special series of 16 mm. film produc—
tions to meet the needs of schools, colleges,
churches, parent-teacher groups, community clubs
and community organizations. The films will be
produced by established film production companies.
The series will be titled “The Art of Living.”
Two one-reel subjects, Y on and Your Family, and
Y on and Y our Friends, are now ready for distri-
bution by the Y.M.C.A. Motion Picture Bureau,
347 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Other
titles in the series will be available later in the

spring.

New Film Series

THERE is a new monthly
publication available to
folk and square dance en-
thusiasts or———-rather——an older square dance bul-
letin, The Ramapo Rangers’ Bulletin, has been
“dressed up and expanded.” Rod and Helen
LaFarge serve as “the cook and the captain bold
and the mate of the Nancy Brig” since they do the
whole job of publishing from research to printing
and mailing. The magazine is called Rosin the
Bow, is priced at $1.50 annually, and is available
from Rod LaFarge at II 5 Cliff Street, Haledon,
Paterson 2, New Jersey. The contents of the first
number include among other things an article on

North Jersey Square Dancing and a list of the
best records for square dancers. ' -

Rosin the Bow

MARCH 1946

All American Soap

A Teen Center That

Music Amphitheater

IN 1941 Detroit’s All
American Soap Box
Derby, billed as “The
VVorld’s Greatest Ama-
teur Racing Event,” was discontinued for the dura-
tion of the war. The derby was sponsored by the
Chevrolet Motor Division of General Motors Cor-
poration and by some of the nation’s leading news-
papers. It is good news that in 1946 the derby will
be resumed. This August the finalists, selected by
local competition in more than a hundred cities
from coast to coast, among tens of thousands of
boys between the ages of eleven and fifteen years.
will come together at Derby Downs, Akron, Ohio,
for the final run off.

Box Derby

IN THE province of Al-
berta, Canada, the gov-
ernment and local com-
munities have created a number of provincial parks
for the use, primarily, of people living in rural
areas. One of the most successful is Park Lake
near the city of Lithbridge. The park provides
facilities for swimming and boating and fishing,
for picnics and field days. It is, in addition, a
sanctuary for wild fowl and wild birds. A local
newspaper says of Park Lake that it is “an oasis
in the bald prairie . . . typical of the recreation
centers that Alberta is developing, all over the
province, to give farm families more clearance to
enjoy leisure moments.”

Prairie Oasis

THE “Ranch House”
Teen Center at Arkansas
City, Arkansas, is begin-
ning its fourth year with
a budget of $3,300 from a Community Chest and
with a paid director in charge of the center which
is located in an old Methodist church. Churches of
the city take turns providing adult leaders to aid
the director.

Continues

CONSTRUCTION of a
$1,500,000 amphitheater
on the lake front east of
the Art Museum will be
started in I946 by the Chicago Park District ac-
cording to the New Y orle Times. It will accommo-
date 2 5,000 people and have a movable roof to pro-

Planned in Chicago

653

654 WORLD AT PLAY

 

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.

A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value

of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

tect 10,000 seats in the event of rain. There will
be 15,000 seats and an overflow area for 10,000
more pe0ple. The amphitheater will provide a
permanent home for the summer concerts and will
be used to present light Operas and large events of
public interest too small to be held in Soldier Field.

Winter in Akron———The Akron, Ohio, Depart-
ment of Recreation is operating two full-time com-
munity centers in park buildings from 2 to 10 P.M.
There are ten community centers in school build-
ings each of which is Open once a week from 7 to
9 RM. Activities include basketball, volley ball,
games in the gymnasium for teen-age boys and
girls. In the halls are table games, such as check-
ers, caroms, and ping-pong. A model airplane
building class is in operation in each building and
there is a social party once a month. There are
five basketball centers in school buildings and two
centers in federal housing projects open one night
a week for social dancing.

More Recreation Areas for Mt. Vernon—
Mayor William H. Hussey of Mt. Vernon, New
York, in his annual message to the Common Corm-
cil. in January stressed the necessity of setting
aside suitable recreation areas throughout the city
now while they are available and designating them
as living war memorials. He advocated that a
careful study of property should be undertaken to
determine what areas are capable of reservation
for future parks and recreation facilities.

Creative Playthings—A movement to enrich
the play life of children by helping parents procure
suitable toys, books, records and other play ma-
terial has been announced by Creative Playthings,
102 West 95th Street, New York City, with the
establishment of a committee of educators and
specialists in various fields to appraise items as
they appear on the market. Outstanding educators
will serve as consultants on books, children’s rec-
ords, music, fine arts, science, toys for older chil-
dren, pre-school toys, educational equipment and
puppets, marionettes and shadow plays. A demon-
stration retail shop to help parents with their toy-z
buying problems has been opened at the head—
quarters of Creative Playthings.

An Entire County Indicted—Every man and
woman in Marion County, West Virginia, accord-
ing to the Baltimore Sun, January 11, 1946, has
been indicted by the January grand jury with fail-
ure to establish proper recreation facilities for
young people.

Noting the prevalence of crime among the teen-
age group, citizens were accused of “laxity in
handling juvenile delinquency problems.”

Ski Trains Run Againl—Since 1942 there
have been no ski trains running on the New York,
New Haven and Hartford Railroad. On January
27, 1946, a ten-car Special known as the “Snow
Express” took 600 ski enthusiasts to the Berk-
shires in western Massachusetts on a one day ex-
cursion. “All types of skiers were out in force,”
says The New Y ark Times for January 28, “the
‘Schussboomer’ who plunged straight down the
trails, much to the detriment of the controlled
skier; the ‘Scissorbill,’ who seemed to be in every-
body’s way, and the novice skier who had to fall
to effect a step. Interest, however, was centered
on the large turnout of children and their parents.
These young boys and girls made great use of the

RECREATION

 

Von FIRST-AGAIN

THE FINEST PERFORMANCE...
UNDER ALL PLAYING CONDITIONS
‘ OVER THE LONOEST PERIOD OF TIME

FOR AMERICA’S PLAYGROUNDS

Bouncing back on’ro American Play-
grounds I'he Voi’r compIeI'e line 01‘ gen-
eral u’rili’ry balls for school. gymnasiuml
playgroundl campl wafer and home.
Moulded from highes’r grade. rich black,
smoo’rhl heavy rubber, The Playground
line is ideal for all I'ypes 01‘ group games.
Available In sizes. six +o sixl'een inches in

 w. J. van RUBBER CORP.

I'Ill'll

u. a m an 1600 E. 25!!! Street, los Angela: 11 o 180 No. Wacker Drive, Chicago 6

MARCH 1946

 

656 WORLD A T PLA Y

Better Craft
Teaching

Less Effort I

 

Hortoncraft Planned Proiect Kits eliminate time-
wasting, preliminary, non—educational drudgery.
You devote your best hours to teaching creative
leathercraft technics, such as tooling and coloring.
Biilfold illustrated is one of many Kits we are
once again able to furnish. Send for FREE Hand-
book showing newest projects. Write today.

nontomanrt

648 CAPITOL AVENUE, HARTFORD 6, CONN.

 

 

300-foot novice rope tow that literally drags them
up a simple slope for a leisurely ride down the hill.”

Notes from New York City’s Park Depart-
ment—During 1945 over 106 million visitors used
the recreation facilities of New York City’s parks,
playgrounds, and beaches. During the year 492
neighborhood playgrounds were Operated with
daily programs of games, contests, arts and crafts,
drama and other activities. In addition to the
standard daily program, the Park Department also
conducted special tournaments and sports for chil—
dren and adults. Three series of outdoor swim-
ming meets were held in which over 3,000 boys
and girls took part. "'In connection with the swim-
ming meets a Learn to Swim Campaign was held
in seventeen outdoor swimming pools, and the
fundamentals of swimming were taught to 4,800
children.

Many special features were included in the pro-
gram. Most popular of these was outdoor danc—
ing. Almost 500,000 dancers waltzed and “do-si—
doed” through a dance series that lasted all sum-
mer. Five dance festivals were produced——one in
each major park of the five boroughs. Over 3,500
children were taught to dance and make costumes.
The annual American Ballad Contest and the Har—
vest Dance Contest were two evening features re-
ceived with enthusiasm. Traveling magic and
marionette shows played to 175,000 children as
they toured playgrounds of the five boroughs.

The six bathing beaches operated by the park
department drew over six million visitors—Ex-
tract from bulletin issued by the Department of
Parks, January, 1946.

An Opera Company with a Long History—-
For twenty-two years the Allentown, Pennsyl—
vania, Municipal Opera Company has given an
annual performance. This year for three nights in
December the company presented “Babes in Toy-
land” for the benefit of approximately 5,000 people.

“We gave a very fine production,” writes Irene
Welty, Superintendent of Recreation. “The cast
and chorus are very proud of themselves and I am
of them.”

Members of the Municipal Opera Company
come from many towns in the Lehigh Valley and
the fame of the company has spread until it draws
its audiences from a number of distant points as
well as from every city and town in this vicinity.
Fifty-two cities and towns in the area were repre—
sented in the patron list.

“Without any doubt,” says an editorial in a
local paper, “the Municipal Opera Company has
made a large contribution to the happy life which
Allentonians can enjoy. . . . But the biggest con-
tribution that the Opera company has afforded is
that gained by the hundreds of young people who
are now members of the organization or were
members of it in the past.

“It is a good thing that Allentown has such an
institution (and of course many others in other
lines) in which young people especially can have a
good time, can find outlets for talents and energies
and can develop and improve those talents for
their own satisfaction and advantage if not indeed
for society’s advantage also.”

Washington State Establishes a Division of
Recreation in the office of the State Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction—The legislature
of the State of Washington has passed a bill,
signed by the governor, which establishes a Divi-
sion of Recreation in the office of the Superintend-
ent of Public Instruction, appropriates $250,000
to cover the cost of the state bureau, and provides
state aid to local school boards in' the conduct of
local recreation programs. The law also author-
izes local school boards to expend their own funds
for recreation, but provides that local school dis-
trict funds may not be used for the recreation of
adults. State aid funds may be used for recreation
for adults.

Houston’s Third Annual Nature Fair—From
October 12-21, Houston, Texas, held its Third
Annual Nature Fair sponsored by the Parks and
Recreation Departments through its Natural Sci—

RECREATION

%¢'74£‘az Dawn/7a peat; gemtée Wm“...

m We aver
SOFTBALL

    
  
    
        

O/gda/

SHAPE-WEIGHT-BOUNCE

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    

Never Matched—or Equa/ed

Its length of service has never been duplicated. No
better quality softball was ever produced at any
price. It has every feature you could ask for—and
it’s tops in construction, service and performance.
WEAVER OHicial Grade Softball is durable, prac-
tical, tough and will hold its shape. Many exclusive
features and built-in qualities, make it the choice of

leading schools, playgrounds, recreation centers and

industrial teams.

ORGINAL PIONEERS

The WEAVER Scholastic Playball and the
WINTARK Rubber Covered, Cord Wound Basket-
ball were the FIRST balls of this type introduced

and successfully used.

jBEST by TEST

lian States Testing Co. Inc.

WINTARK Policy Wins for Dealers

Write for Latest Catalog

WEAVER FEATURES

Private Estate Kapok center of finest

quality long fibre. Kapok is STEAM
TREATED for toughness and extra
wear. Gum (Latexed) Winding, provides
rubber cushion between cords. Dura-
ble rubber cover with horsehide grain.

 
   
   
   

     
 
   
 

  SA LES COMPANY , 
  AM_ER!CA'S FOREMOST Armmc rawmmr 3 
  4216 w.ocnm AVENUE - cmcaco 23,1u.  

3'5 "Vii-’4'"

658 COOPERATION IN MICHIGAN CITIES

Trade-Marl Reg. U 5 Polar" Office
AMERICA'S No. 'l SWIMMING POOL ENAMEl

Two Indispensable products for
swimming pools to insure Maximum
Beauty, Visibility and Protection:

RAMUC Enamel imparts a tile-Ilka,
oasy-to-clean finish which does

not chip, crack or pool. Applied
like paint.

EXALGAE prevents algae growth

in pools. Economical and easy to
use. Keeps water sparklingly
clear at all times.

for complete information, write to

INERTOL co, INC. - DEPT. R

1470 FRELINGHUYSEN AVENUE
NEWARK 5, NEW JERSEY

Western Branch:
64 South Pork, Son Francisco 7. Calif.

EXAlGAE

Trade-Marl Rea. U S, Potant Office

A NEW, SAFE, EFFECTIVE ALGAECIDE

 

ence Section which includes the Museum of Nat-
ural History, the Zoo, and nature recreation in the
city playgrounds. The main feature of the fair
consisted of exhibits entered by individuals, schools,
playgrounds, scout troops and similar groups. The
museum and zoo held special open house. A variety
of events entertained the multitude of guests —
music, band music, a casting tournament, conduct-
ed tours of the nature trail and similar activities.

Some Suggestions fo'r Beautification—Sev—
eral suggestions for war memorials within the
reach of the average small town budget come from
Charles H. Perkins, Newark, New Jersey.

“Small towns which already have community
centers might think automatically of planting on
the surrounding grounds. But what about a p0pu-
lar intersection where people wait for trolleys or
buses? Most of these could stand more brighten-
ing up. If yours is a town filled with commuters,
the area around the railroad station might be
planted with fragrant blooms to welcome week-

end visitors, as well as to provide beauty and color
for the daily traveler.

“Or there may be an area of ground space be-
side your public library which might be developed
into an outdoor reading room. 'VVhat better me-
morial could there be than a flower-tilled garden
where peOple could read and relax in the summer
time? A neat bronze plaque listing the names of
service men and women of the community should
be in the center of the planting.”———Extract from
The Royal Gazette and Colonist Daily, Bermuda.

Safety Sides for Slides——The maintenance
engineer at the Park Holm Housing Project in
Newport, Rhode Island, has designed and con-
structed a safety feature for slides which deserves
publicity. This item, which is aimed at the pre-
vention of accidents to little children using the
slides, consists simply of a pair of pressed-wood
panels fastened to each side of the platform at the
top of the slide. Each panel is framed in two 2-
inch strips of oak in suitable lengths, and made
fast by means of metal straps around the rails at
the top of the slide and screwed or bolted to the
wood frames.

Ordinarily, there is nothing at the top of the
slide to prevent a child from falling off but a single
band rail on each side of the platform. These rails
are frequently of such height that a child’s body can
easily pass beneath them.

The side boards devised in Newport represent
safeguards that merit consideration by playground
directors, maintenance superintendents, and others
responsible for the safe operation of playground
apparatus—Extract from a statement by Ernest

Buff.

Cooperation In Michigan
Cltles
ENTER LINE will have a lighted softball and
football field as a result of cooperative effort.
The city is furnishing the land and assuming re-
sponsibility for drainage and grading. The Board
of Education will construct the bleachers. A com—
mittee of citizens, through subscriptions or loans
from industry, will provide for lighting and fenc-
ing. The area when completed will be turned over
to the Recreation Board for operation.
Bay City found an indoor archery range as

another example of cooperation. The County Board
of Supervisors and the Dow Chemical Company

RECREATION

 

Thank you for the enthusiasm and interest shown
at the National Recreation Congress assembly in
Atlantic City in January.

BED-BALI.

146’ 7me an")? an )415n/

   

Game of Red-Ball consisIs of
a regula’rion {able 2% x 8 faaf.
fwo billiard cues. seven la’rha-
’rurnad I%" balls (5 whi’ra. 2
colored) and one I%" RED ball
—l:nown as +he MASTER BALL.
During ihe war. Red-Ball brigh’r-
aned many an hour in many a
place for many a servicaman
and woman—is now swaeping
{he coun’rry. PorIable. Taltes
only 2% x 8 II. space. Moder-
afely priced. ASK US FOR
FULL DETAILS.

 

Imagine you and an opponenI' as ’rwo
Armchair Admiralsl . . . each wiI'h a
Tasl: Force seeking ’ro sink fha ofharl
That in brief is Radar-Salvo. Sho’rs are
made wifh colored pegs in RIGHT Half-

Sec’rion. Maneuvering is done in LEFT
Half-Sec’rion.

Fashioned of PLEXIGLAS—modern acrylic

plasfic s’rronger and clearer fhan fine
glass. Iigh’r in weight. Playing Board.
7% at 53/3 inches. is in Chinese Red:
crysi'al Base. -A shipload 01" funl

 

O. S. WILKINSON COMPANY

Manufacturer - Distributor

1400 L Street N. W. WASHINGTON 5. D. C.
MARCH 1946 659

000 I'OUTHS’ DAY IN SAN FRANCISCO

'GYM MATS-PADS

BOXING RINGS

 IIAINING BAGS, PAD COVERS, BASE BALL
' - BASES AND KINDIED EQUIPMENT...

Miguel by own. undo by exp-oriented will-n ko-
qur‘lynmn'chondodddkodnw. all-pude-
MW. truly M

mg
 " NAYIONAI. SPORTS EQUIPMENI’ COMPANY
1" f SII IAAOUI‘I’I’I 0 (08‘0" us. WII.

fend for New (dialog

cooperated in setting up the facilities which have
been installed in one of the old exhibition buildings
at the Fair Grounds—a long, narrow building
excellently adapted to archery. At the range which
is under the general supervision of the Recreation
Commission forty-five members of the archer’s
club shoot three nights a week. Classes for begin-
ners are held at the range once a week through the
cooperation of the Board of Education and the State
Department of Public Instruction. Students pay a
three dollar fee for the course in instruction and
the state reimburses the Board of Education for
75 percent of the instruction costs.

This activity is part of the Adult Education Pro-
gram which through the section designated as
avocational and recreational includes courses in
Elements of Navigation and Small Boat Handling
and a series known as Hunters’ Nights Series
under the leadership of representatives of the De-
partment of Conservation who give instruction on
such topics as duck hunting and deer hunting;
Other topics include recreation leadership, swim-
ming for women and bridge.

   

 

 

Youths' Day in
San Francisco

MAY 17 was YOUTIIS’ DAY in San Francisco

when some six hundred teen-age delegates
from all parts of California arrived to take part in
the Northern California Conference on Teen-age
Centers and Youth Councils. San F rancisco’s
teen-age groups were hosts for the Conference,
which was sponsored by the Youth Authority of
the State of California. “Inter-Racial Friendship”
was the theme of the Conference.

Following the opening session and the report of
the Nominating Committee, the delegates divided
into groups to take part in various youth work-
shops which included Music for Centers; Pro-
grams for Centers; Mixers for Centers; Inter-

 
 
 
 
   

Racial Understanding in Small Connnunities; Boy-
Girl Relationships; Jobs in the Community; Inter-
Racial Understanding in large cities; Religion in
Action; Problems of Center and Council Organi—
zations. Adult workshOps were also held on Prob-
lems and Programs at Large and at Small Centers.

At 3:15 P. M. came the afternoon general ses-
sion with presentation of Conference officers to the
Northern California Youth Council who had been
elected at the morning session. One minute re-
ports and introduction of consultants were made
by the workshop chairmen.

At 4:00 P. M. the Recreation Hour began with
a dance in the gymnasium, a sightseeing trip, con-
sultation periods for youth and adults, music in
the auditorium, and relaxation in Mission Park.
At 6:00 the banquet was held, with the closing
session of the Conference at 7:00 when awards
were made to the winners of the San Francisco
inter-center softball tournament. At 8 :00 the gym-
nasium was the scene of the evening’s dance, with
the Mission High Swing Band providing dance
ITJUSIC.

 

 

Time for Safety Measures

HIGHLY TRAINED ICE SKATER, unless he is un-
duly careless, needs no warning about dan-
gerous ice and the hazards involved in the sport.
But many devotees of plain skating do need to be
warned. In the thrill of executing a “high one” or
a “long one” there is a brief second when the
skater isn’t in control. Many a bad spike or torn
ligament can be traced to such a moment when the
skater has taken flight before he has figured the
landing. For such people, forgetting in their en—
thusiasm the dangers involved, there should be a
set of rules so simple they can become common
sense habit to every skater. In the meantime, there
are certain safeguards which should be practised
by all authorities who are in charge of skating
rinks. Here are a few suggestions along these
lines.

No matter how thick the ice, it is imperative that
it receive the attention of the local police or the
local park authority until it is safe beyond any
doubt '

Many types of minor and major accidents can
occur on a crowded skating area. It is, therefore,
essential to have first aid materials readily at
hand. First aid can be rendered effectively by the
person onduty who has been assigned to super-

RECREATION

 

MARCH 1946

 

When it's modeled N '-

in

“will: WO©I

.'7DW/

ARTS and CRAFTS TEACHERS will find great advantages in
using PLASTIC WOOD as a modeling medium. PLASTIC WOOD
comes ready to use—does not require special tools and handling, or
between class care—other modeling materials must be ltept damp
in order to be in a workable condition.

PLASTIC WOOD encourages creative ability in the student
and develops co-ordination between mind and hand. After the
obiect is modeled' it can be carved and sanded, painted or varnished
to acquire any desired finish. Following an experiment last summer
in the Mt. Lebanon, Pa. Community Summer Day Camp, the arts and
crafts counselor wrote the following letter:

 

. . . Children from 3 to 12 years participated m the class.

when modeling with mastic wood the “WI preliminary The advantages of no casting, ltttle egmpmettt and no special

steps are necessary in making the armature as with any care butt?!” te'orleittg periods make Ibis c3 most popular
other medium. After the armature is prepared. Plastic model)": medium

Wood is then applied from a tube or a Can. allowing it ‘5 '
to dry for a mameat before modeling into shape. No H , ,
special tools are necessary. Tbe students successfully built up designs on book ends,

and wall plaques of various designs and were very enthusi-
astic wit!) tlse results. Proof of the success of Plastic Wood
as a craft for recreation centers is sboun in the children's
desire to continue this type of project at home . . ."
FREE SAMPLE! If you are an arts and crafts teacher and would
like to experiment with Plastic Wood for class room modeling, we
will be glad to send you samples of Plastic Wood and Plastic Wood
Solvent. Direct your request on your school or summer day camp
stationery. Please indicate your title.

Dept. R Boyle-Midwaylnc.
22 East 40th Street

After adding additional layers of Plastic Wood to attain New York I6: New York
a rough tigure Structure. add tinishing touches by mixing
Plastic Wood Solvent with Plastic Wood to make .s soft
dough.

Do not hesitate to use Solvent liberally—applying it
directly to the Plastic Wood already on piece. or mixing
it with additional Plastic Wood to model delicate places.

 

   
 
  
  
 

SOLD AT HARDWARE.
PAINT and 10c STORES

 
 
 

Handles like putty . . . Harden: into wood 2

PLASTIC
WOOD

5‘-lI.II.OSE PIER! PILLEI

 
 

661

662 ' THE 1946 RECREATION CONGRESS

vise activity on the ice, if he has the necessary
equipment.

A telephone should be easily accessible for
emergencies.

Hair pins, papers, stones and sticks—objects
often found on the ice surface—have been the
cause of many bad falls and should be carefully
removed. .

Numerous accidents are caused by the mixup of
speed skaters, hockey players, and plain recreation
skaters. One of the most important methods of
avoiding accidents is to segregate the various types
of skaters. In the majority of the country’s indoor
rinks guards are on duty to caution all high-
spirited and expert speed skaters so that the be-
ginners are not overrun and crowded out. Thus it
is possible to eliminate the danger of expert skat-
ers monopolizing the skating area. A figure skater
has a right to trace out his patterns without being
whisked off his feet by a hockey stick. Hockey
players, on the other hand, have a right to a rink
or an area of their own. The answer is some kind
of segregation.

Ice skating is an inexpensive and invigorating
pastime which is enjoyed by young and old alike.
People who like to skate are apt to make it a
habit. Thousands of returning servicemen are
taking up ice skating because it is good exercise,
good recreation, a good “mixer.” This winter more
and more boys and girls are skating on the nation’s
many rinks and ponds. For all their sakes safety
precautions cannot be too highly stressed—Ken—
neth A. Hill, Recreation Director, Los Angeles
City Recreation Department.

The I946 Recreation Congress
(Continued from page 621)

and community groups provide healthful, enter—
taining activities for the pleasure and relaxation of
our men and women.”

At the Conference, organized labor was repre-
sented by John Strobel, Recreation Director of the
Wisconsin State Federation of Labor and by Mel—
vin G. West, Recreation Director, UAW-CIO.

O. L. Allman, Director of Industrial Relations,
Associated Industries of Missouri, speaking as
both employer and employee, pointed out what
both expect from the recreation program. Em-
ployers expect good sportsmanship from em-
ployees, interest in the program, and sometimes
an employer wants to see in black and white how
the program is benefiting his plant, difficult though

it may be to demonstrate this value in a tangible
way. Employees want a good recreation director, a
program based on their own interests, no parter-
nalism, reasonable facilities, and participation by
supervisors and the president himself.

Forest H. Kirkpatrick, Consultant on Indus-
trial Relations, Bethany, West Virginia, asked
whether industrial recreation leaders were con—
ducting activities or working according to a long—-
range plan to broaden the recreation interests of
those taking part in the program. o

The Round Table session considered such ques-
tions as the bona fide employee rule in industrial
athletic organizations, whether recreation pro-
grams in industries were necessary because the
community programs were not filling the need,
lighting and color schemes, financing industrial
recreation programs, men coaching women’s teams,
recreation activities in rest room lounges, liability
for injuries to participants in athletic programs,
travel expenses for varsity teams.

Following the sessions of the Industrial Recre-
ation Conference many of the delegates took part
in the regular sessions of the National Recreation
Congress.

The Challenge to Leisure in a
World of Abundance

(Continued from page 619)

producing now. I thought we were at the maxi-
mum of production in our factories, but I have
found during this Second V’Vorld War that with
the electrical devices we have worked out, we can
produce many times what we produced before.”

An inventor, living not far from me, was com-
missioned to develop labor-saving devices, and he
reported that he has worked out one that permits
a single man to do the work of twelve men. We
have reports from the agricultural field as to how
much more can be produced if we apply the science
we know. So, it was not strange to read in the
Saturday Review of Literature the other day an
article about the new sin of being afraid of the new
abundance and the new leisure that that abundance
would bring.

We face a new world, in that we not only now
have’ an abundance of electric power, but soon we
may have more power through atomic energy, and
our industrialists are putting up to us the thinking
out of the problems that may be connected with all
this deve10pment. After all, this world of ours
was made for man. It wasn’t made for machinery.

RECREATION

THE CHALLENGE TO LEISURE IN A WORLD OF ABUNDANCE

IT’S wnson TODAY \

How can we discover and work out those things
that will give the greatest and most enduring sat-

  

PLAY IT WELL ?

You can play tennis all your
active life. But you can play your «

best only with good equipment. Get the LAST WORD
in tennis rackets. Get a Wilson. Designed by leading
stars. Masterfully balanced. Famous for stroking
power and stamina. It’s the LAST WORD in every
way. See your dealer. Wilson Sporting Goods Co.,
Chicago, New York and other leading cities.

:L‘l.ll.f/yy’ .

  in Modern Tennis Equipment

\

isfactions? Many great leaders have helped to set .

the goal. Dr. Charles W. Eliot of Harvard, who

worked so much in the Association in the early
days, was fond of the words “the enduring satis-
factions of life.” Jane Addams sought the means
to keep the “spirit of youth,” and One, our Master,
a long time ago, talked in terms that perhaps have
not been improved upon about “the abundant life.”

We, as the members of a noble profession, have
an opportunity to think through some of these fun—
damental problems, and try to keep this earth of
ours a place that is congenial to the soul of man,
a place where life is so attractive, so vital, so real,
that we cannot think of anything like mass suicide,
where no atomic bomb is going to bring fear to
us, where we go ahead and do our part in spite of
every threat.

The challenge becomes greater all the time, and
it is because of this that the National Recreation
Association has recently increased its field district
staff 50 percent, and has enlarged other parts of
its work. We must meet these new problems in
no small way, because we are coming into a very
large world in which we must play our part.

MARCH 1946

663

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

We ought not to open this meeting without a
reference to the great place of recreation workers
in this recent World War. When we think of the
men who have served in the Army and the Navy
and the Red Cross, the USO, the FSA, and many
other agencies, we have reason to be proud of the
service that has been rendered.

I think we can say without question that the
people in general are now coming to feel that rec-
reation is one of the major fields, one of the major
divisions of life, that with religion, education,
labor, health, it has a major contribution to make,
and the best in the way of intellect and skill and
training is not a bit too good for the task that we
face in the time ahead of us. We do have reason
to be proud that in forty years so much has been
built up, so much of physical equipment, so much
of leadership, and so much support in public
opinion. _

The recreation center, the playground, and the
swimming pool are but symbols to indicate the
thought of the American people for more abundant
living, for keeping the spirit of youth for people of
all*ages in our communities. We have reason to be

proud, but our thoughts should not be of the past.
but of the future.

FIELD COURSES

NATURE AND CONSERVATION
For Adults

Maine—Audubon Nature Camp

Todd Wildlife Sanctuary,
Mnseongus Bay

Five 2-week sessions with classes in birds, plants,
insects, marine life and nature activities.
JUNE l4—AUcusr 29, Bth Season

Connecticut—Audubon Nature Center
Greenwich Wildlife Sanctuary

Four 2-week sessions with courses in birds, camp

nature study, ecology, conservation, and wildlife
management.

One 3-week CONSERVATION WORKSHOP for

administrators, teachers, and others planning con-
servation programs.

JUNE lO—AL‘GUST 31, 3rd Season
For illustrated folders write to

NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY
1006 Fifth Avenue New York 28, N. Y.

 

Emphasis on "Civilian"
(Continued from page 631)

ried about his security and perhaps that of a wife
and child as well, is not in the mood to participate
in those activities normally conducted in a recrea-
tion center or park or playground. There’s no
quarreling with the fact that this is a job for our
educational employment (or veterans) agencies
but if they cannot fill the need (as will be the case
in many communities—particularly the smaller
ones) we may have to do something about it.

The Army has done much without enough
trained leadership. Here are some suggestions from

Army experience :

Place vocational information materials in your club
or reading rooms.

Inaugurate a vocations course. in which, in succes-
sive sessions, a different vocation or profession is dis-
cussed 'by a recognized successful member of the voca-
tion or profession.

Set up better jobs clinics, designed to help a person
sell himself to a prospective employer.

Arrange vocational guidance programs in which in-
terested persons are referred to counselors selected
from recognized successful members of the various
occupations and professions. (These, Of course, would
have to be selected and briefed in advance.)-

Engage part-time counselors, both vocational and

A CALENDAR SERVICE

educational, and make this service available in the
evening.

Use miscellaneous sources of information in these
fields in connection with bulletin boards and center
news sheets or news-papers.

The Army has develOped and/or accumulated a
tremendous amount of materials for use in these
fields, and a visit to the Information-Education
thcer of the military installation nearest you may
be worth while. These materials are all expend-
able, and naturally will be surplus at installations
being deactivated or reduced in strength.

A Calendar Service

ECREATION PROMOTION and Service, Inc., of
R \Vilmington, Delaware, of which George T.
Sargisson is Executive Secretary, inaugurated a
Calendar Service which is meeting a very favor-
able response. The service is explained in the fol-
lowing letter which was sent to all civic, business,
church, school, social and recreational organiza-
tions in the Wilmington area.

“You will be interested in knowing that we
are planning the operation of a clearing house
for information on recreational activities. A
CALENDAR SERVICE of what is going on in and
near Wilmington will be maintained in this
Office so that conflicting dates of events may
be avoided. In order that this service may be
carried out, your cooperation is necessary.

“It is requested that a'schedule of any ac-
tivities which you are contemplating be for-
warded to us immediately so that it may be
recorded in our Calendar. By doing this,
other groups planning activities on the same
dates may have the opportunity of selecting a
non-conflicting date.

“It is also requested that before planning
further activities of your particular group
that you telephone Wilmington 5-3211, or
write us for information relative to sched-
uled events. In this way you may be able to
plan your event on a “free evening,” there-
by being assured of a greater turnout for the
affair.

“It is planned to submit a schedule of ac-
tivities to the Wilmington newspapers every
week for publiEation.

“There is no charge for this service. This
is being dOne for the sole purpose of assist-
ing organized groups in planning their pro—

RECREATION

A CALENDAR SERVICE 665

 

. 'This famous H 8: B Oval and the personal
autograph of a famous hitter wri’n‘en on

the barrel end are the quality hall-marks
found on no other make of bat.

“It’s your assurance
of the finest”—

 

      
  

 
 

 

 

 

grams on non-conflicting dates, thereby al-
lowing the public to attend and- enjoy many
more functions over a longer period of time.

“Your c00peration in providing this oflice
with the desired list of your activities is
earnestly solicited.”

“Next Week in Wilmington”

The Calendar of events for the week of Decem-

ber 9—15, 1945 will serve as a sample. It was pub-

lished in the News-Journal papers, under the title
“Next Week in Wilmington."

Sunday. December 9

3 :00 RM. Concert :by the Wilmington Symphony Orches-
tra in the Playhouse. Admission free.

5:00P.M. Christmas vespers at the Y.W.C.A.. Admis-
sion free.

8:00P.M. Concert in the Y. M. and Y. W. H. A., 515
French Street. Hebrew and Yiddish folk songs.
2:00 P.M.t06:00 RM. Delaware Art Center, Woodlawn
Avenue and Park Drive. Exhibit of paintings
of Stanley M. Arthurs of Wilmington. Con-

tinues daily from 10 A.M. to 5 RM. Admission
free.

MARCH 1946

Monday, December IO

8:00 P.2M. Christmas workshop and exhibit in the Y.M.
C.A. Admission free.

8:00 RM. Book and Authors Bond Rally in the Play-
house. Victory Bond Admission.

8:00 RM. Minstrel show at St. Andrew’s Parish House,
‘Eighth and Orange Streets.

8:15 RM. Concert by the American Society of Ancient

Instruments in the Delaware Art Center. Ad-
mission free.

Tuesday, December I I

8:15 P.M. Junior Chamber of Commerce Forum at the
Playhouse. Margaret Bourke-White, speaker,
“European Panorama.” Admission by sub-

scription. Tickets may the obtained at the box
ofiice.

8:15 P.M. Pre-Christmas program of the Book Forum
at the Ursuline auditorium. Admission free.

Wednesday, December l2

8:00P.M. Delaware Safety Council annual meeting in

the Playhouse. Col. Alfred B. Johnson, speaker,
No admission fee.

Thursday, December l3

8:00 RM. Workers’ Education Forum in the Y.W.C.A.

Michael Ross, speaker, “Labor and Interna-
tional Scene.” Admission free.

. gac‘ [mm the War
THE NISSEN

TRAMPOLINE

puts the popular gym and playground sport of
TRAMPOLINING back in “civvies”

O Trained and conditioned wartime

thousands . . .

0 Now ready for pcacetime’s phys. ed.
and playground millions . . .

O A sound, scientific sport with a
lively-action appeal.

Write for Free Literature

GRISWOLD 8: NISSEN

P. O. Box 376 Cedar Rapids, Iowa

Friday, December I4

7:30 P.M. Christmas party at the Wilmington Drama
League for children of members and their

guests.

Saturday, December I5

All Day—U. S. Victory Train at the Pennsylvania Rail—
road freight yard, Third Street. Seven cars of
secret U. S. war equipment and captured Nazi
material including Goering’s bejewelled baton.
Admission—One Victory Bond for the entire
family. |

7:30 P.M. Christmas party at the Wilmington Drama
League for children of members and their
guests.

The plan provides for listing at the oflice all
the services of many activities which are not of a
public nature and hence cannot be included in the
Calendar. Information regarding them is, how-
ever, available for the use of anyone interested.

Kingsley House Goes on the Air

(Continued from page 643)

ability was overshadowed by her interest in the we]—
fare of the poor, was dramatized in a program titled
by her first name, Margaret. These scripts were
produced by settlement members ranging in age
from young children to adults. Other groups pro-
duced selected radio plays written for boys and
girls by professional script writers.

The production of monthly programs for a year,
programs which involved about seventy members
who were intensely interested in what they were
doing, has given impetus to the formation of a
Radio \Vorkshop. Its personnel will include all
settlement members and staff who are in any way
connected with the radio presentations given
monthly; actors, script writers, publicity agents,

 

KINGSLEY HOUSE GOES ON THE AIR

sound effects and other technical workers. We
hope eventually to explore the entire field of radio
production with the idea of improving apprecia-
tion, as well as experiencing the satisfactions that
derive from production.

Already we have learned some things. We know
that diction and the timbre of the voice are im—
portant, and therefore tryouts and some individual
coaching are attempted. We know that it is im-
portant to advertise the program before each
monthly performance and to check up on our “lis-
tening public” after each program. We know that
sound effects are a held of their own and that their
production requires experience and training. We
know that it is imperative to work smoothly with
the radio station which provides our time on the
air and to report to them our findings about our
listeners. We know that it is possible to get advice
and help from those who “know how” when we
are in a tight spot. And most of all we know that
we love what we’re doing.

So we’re on our way to fun and fame—well,
fun, anyway—via radio’s exciting voice. Who
knows? Maybe next year we will have a record-
ing machine so that we can hear ourselves after
“the show goes on” and laugh at our own mistakes
and try to correct them. Maybe next year or the
next we’ll have a radio workshop that’s the de-
light of the nation! In the meantime, if you’re
within range of \VNOE’S signal listen on the last
Saturday in each month to the Kingsley House
players. The time: Saturday, 9:15 A.M. (just after
breakfast is finished and before the marketing must
be done) station WN OE, New Orleans, Louisana.

Britain Plans for Recreation
(Continued from page 635)

facilities will be provided, clubs using the facilities
being expected to pay modest fees which will meet
the maintenance charges, although not the capital
cost.

Community Centers

Side by side with this development, a great ex-
pansion of the Community Center movement is
also contemplated. Many community centers were
erected in Britain between 1918 and 1939, and
now the provision of community centers has, by
decision of the British Government, been made a
responsibility of the education authorities, the
object being “to promote the social and physical
trainingand recreation of the community.”

RECREATION

LIVING MEMORIALS IN THE RECREATION FIELD

In providing suitable buildings the emphasis is
laid first on “social” activities—dances, whist-
drives, concerts—but room is also made for the
holding of classes in subjects such as economics,
international relations, or psychology. Between
these extremes lies a vast variety of interest for
which, says the Ministry of Education, the com-
munity center can and should cater. Music, drama
and choral societies can rehearse and produce
there; the allotments association, the rabbit club,
the. savings group, the film society can hold busi-
- ness meetings and social functions. There, too,
will be the common room, the games room, and
the canteen to which members can resort to read,
play games, or chat over a meal.

The Council for the Encouragement of Music
and the Arts (now the Arts Council of Great Bri-
rain) has, in cooperation with the Ministry of
Education, recently prepared plans and models of
suggested arts centers. There has been an enorm-
ous increase of interest in exhibitions of paintings,
in ballet, in performances of classical plays and
classical music. These performances have not
always been easy to present, especially in the
smaller towns, owing to lack of proper halls and
accommodation. The Arts Council proposes for
smaller towns where separate buildings for con-
certs and plays are not practicable, the incorpora-
tion of a well-equipped hall, with a stage, in a gen—
eral community center containing restaurant, meet-
ing, reading and exhibition rooms.

Living Memorials in the Recreation

Field

( C ontirmed from page 638)

could be? How about forums? Do all the chil—
dren of the community have constructive play op-
portunities? Will the veterans interests be fully
served? How will the program provide for fre-
quent rededication to the memorial objective?

From this it is clear that leaders should con-
ceive a living memorial largely in terms of pro-
gram. Program and leadership are closely related,
and funds for these will go farther toward vitaliz-
ing—toward “re-creating”—a community than
funds spent for facilities alone. A progressive,
dynamic, full-time recreation director can do won-
ders in developing a well-rounded, constructive

program and in harnessing disconnected commu-

nity efforts.
The tangible memorial, then, must be developed

MARCH 1946

‘667

A WINNING PROMOTION
A NATURAL TIE IN

"SWIM-FllIl-HEALTH WEEK”

JUNE 24 to 29

The Eleventh Annual National Swim for Health

Week, Launched in a Barrage of Publicity from

Coast to Coast, will he Celebrated During the
Week of June 24th to 29th.

Here’s your opportunity to capitalize on a trcmendous
national campaign! This year public interest in SWIM
FOR HEALTH WEEK is expected to reach a new high.
Every medium of publicity will be, pressed into service
. . . radio, newspaper, motion pictures and national pub-
lications . . all with one purpose in mind—ta make

America swim conscious!

 

1946 Swim Ior Health Week
poater . . . printed In three
colora . . . 13%” hy 17%”
in aiao . . . 2%” blank apace
on bottom for two-line im-
print. Prico $6.00 per hun-
dred to cover coat eI printing,

Inatitntlonal Poater for an at
any time . . . Printed In lira
eolora . . . in 13%” by 17%”
in size . . . haa 2%” blank
apaeo for two-line imprint.
Price 87.50 per hnndred. Extra
charge of $2.50 per hnndred

handling and shipping. Extra for two-line imprint.
charge of $2.50 per hundrad
for two-lino imprint.

(Illinimum Imprint Order—100 Posters)

Naturally, you will want to take advantage of such a
promotion—it’s planned for YOU! The groundwork is
laid . . . the stage is set! But it’s a promotion that will
be worth nothing unless you, yourself, deveIOp all local
possibilities . . . don't pass up a single one!

Hundreds of Chapters of the American Red Cross,
Boys’ Clubs, Young Men’s Christian Associations, Young
Women’s Christian Associations, Commercial and Mu-
nicipal Swimming Pools, high schools and colleges, news-
papers, radio stations, stores and national advertisers

have cooperated in the promotion of Swim for Health
Week campaigns.

FOR INFORMATION REGARDING

Swimming Leaaena for Children, Local Tie-ups, Enderaementa,

Competitive Swimming Meets, Tropbiea, Newapaper and Radio,
Publicity Releaaea —erte to:

Martin Stern, Executive Director

SWIM FOR HEALTH ASSOCIATION

60 East 42nd Street
New York 17, New York

 

 

 

you Gan Use

TI-E IOURNAI. 0! HEALTH
and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

A Reliable Source of Material on:
0 HEALTH EDUCATION

0 PHYSICAL FITNESS
0 SPORTS AND GAMES
0 RECREATION

In factI on every phase of school programs relating to health.
physical education, and recreation. Over 600 large pages

each year report thought and activity on all phases important
to those charged with the health and happiness of human

beings. $2.50 per year.

Published monthly, except July and August

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION

1201 Sixteenth Sh, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

W
____________————
around community needs, program and leadership.
The facility must be functionally adequate ; veter-
ans will be disappointed if they find themselves
still subjected to waiting turns and overcrowding.
No cheap, half-way measure will do. Every mem—
ber of the community should feel the burden and
glory in the accomplishment. The facility should
be beautiful. It should be located where it can best
serve the entire community even if buildings have

to be razed.

A selection of contemporary statements which
best describe the spirit and achievement to be
memorialized, as well as the names of those who
sacrificed themselves, should be displayed. The
recreation facility must serve minority groups on
equal terms, and should provide that groups from
other nations shall participate in competition, en-
tertainment and fellowship.

Provision for the facility’s leadership, program
and maintenance can best be made through taxes.
The facility itself can well come from this same
community-wide source.

Careful, long-range plans should be drawn. The

planning services of the National Recreation As-'

PLAYTIME AT GOODYEAR

sociation can well be enlisted. There should be no
hurry to build as long as homes are desperately
needed. However, the work of planning, educat-
ing, securing backing, and providing funds can-
not wait.

Those leaders who achieve true living memorials
in their communities will prove that this war’s
great sacrifices have not been in vain.

Playtime .at Goodyear

(Continued from page 647)

work became available. Now -its normal flow of
activities is in full swing again.

In addition to the gymnasium where all indoor
sports, the annual Christmas party, dances and
other attractions are held, the hall houses Good-
year Industrial University; the Goodyear Theater,
with a seating capacity of I,632_; a library of 2,000
non-fiction books and 400 current periodicals; 12
bowling alleys; conference club and lounge rooms
galore; and a steam room.

Outdoor recreational activities are conducted at
Seiberling Field, only a block from the main plant.
Here there is a large stadium and near by several
baseball diamonds and horseshoe courts. Picnic
facilities, boating and fishing are offered at the
company’s Wingfoot Lake property, approximately
fifteen miles from the Akron plants.

Acting in an advisory capacity is the Employees
Activities Committee, made up of a representative
from each club, and incorporated, not for profit, by
the state. For the purpose of administering the
affairs of the Employees Activities Committee be-
tween meetings, an executive board composed of a
chairman, co-chairman and ten members has men

established.

Program

The social program is diversified. Thirty clubs
have been organized, most of them at the sugges-
tion of the employee activities program. Outstand-
ing among these are the Photographic Society,
Flying Club, Foremen’s Club and auxiliary, Wing-
foot Girls, Friars, Operetta Society, Hunting and
Fishing, VVomen’s Club and Women’s Forum, the
T wenty-five and Twenty-year clubs, composed of
longterm employees, and the Girls’ and Duplicate
Bridge clubs.

Highlighting the recreation programs at Good-
year Gymnasium each week is the regular “Family
Night” event staged each Monday. At this time
all the gymnasium facilities are available to em-

RECREATION

DERBY DAY IN BURBANK 669

ployees and their families and such sports as vol-
ley ball, shufHeboard, handball, table tennis and

basketball are in progress.

Other organized sports sponsored by the Em-
ployees Activities Committee include: archery,
badminton, bait casting, departmental basketball,
deck tennis, golf, horseshoe pitching, pistol and
rifle shooting, softball, swimming and volley ball.

As a feature sports attraction, the company
sponsors an outstanding basketball team which
schedules top-notch college, independent and in-
dustrial aggregations throughout the mid-west.
Although basketball was suspended during the
war, the team, playing under the name of the
Goodyear Wingfoots, has fifteen home games sched-
uled this season. Capacity crowds of employees
and Akron fans fill the huge gymnasium for the
home games. °

Every Saturday the gymnasium is open to hun-
dreds of boys, sons or relatives of Goodyear cm-
ployees, for participation and instruction in indoor
sports. Bowling claims .the greatest percentage of
employee participation with more than 1,000 work—
ers finding relaxation in seventeen leagues, aver-
aging twelve teams each. Women employees are
enrolled in two special leagues. Pool tables are
also provided at the Goodyear bowling alleys.

Participation

Edmund’s latest survey shows that 30 percent
of the employees participate either as spectators or
players in the year—round sports program, while
more than 80 percent are present for special
events.

Despite its extensive sports and recreation pro-
gram, Goodyear is still expanding in this field
through special bulletins that urge groups of em-
ployees interested in a particular sport to organize
and contact the committee for assistance in sched-
uling and supervision. Edmund already has a staff
of sixteen people who plan and supervise the pro-
gram that has enabled Goodyear to keep its em—
ployees strong, healthy and satisfied.

Derby Day in Burbank

(Continued from page 637)

suitable prizes. Each boy who entered the race
was given an attractive hunting knife. One of the
members of this committee engraved the name of
each contestant _on the knife blade and another

MARCH 1946

p

‘U NHII" I4 OH O 'J S a

 

member decorated the sheath with the words,
“Burbank Soap Box Derby, 1945.”

Each contestant also received a felt emblem to
wear on the day of the race. Miniature car trophies
were given for the first three places in each of the
two divisions—the 10 to 12 and the I 3 to 16 age
groups.

The Arrangements Committee provided the of—
ficial starters and timers, and was successful in
getting the city Mayor to act as official starter.
This committee also arranged for one of the oil
companies to provide a lubrication truck, secured a
police patrol, arranged for the taking of movies,
and arranged with the City Service Department to
clean the street prior to the race.

The Safety Committee arranged for a Red Cross
station wagon with an attendant and first aid sup-
plies, and patrolled the course, particularly at the
start and finish.

The Public Address Committee arranged for
public address equipment at the starting line, also

670 NATURE STUDY AND GARDENING

for communication between the starting and finish-
ing lines. A registrar organized the heats and re-
corded all the data on a large blackboard. This
committee had several excellent ideas for com-
munications and announcing, some of which were
not possible to use due to the lack of equipment.
It was felt that a “walkie talkie” or a direct tele-
phone connection between start and hnish would
simplify communications.

A Ramp Committee composed of two members
was in charge of constructing and operating the
starting ramp. This fine piece of work was done
at the home of one of the members and assembled
on the course the day of the race. By this means
it was possible for three cars to start at once. A
signal flag was used for the beneht of the timers
at the finish line.

The Program Committee had the important job
of raising money. They had charge of selling ad-
vertising to merchants, printing of programs and
selling them on the day of the races. A Hi-Y
Club of one of the schools volunteered to make
the sales. i

Summary

The best time for the 1,280 foot run was 47-3/10
seconds. This car was later paced by a motorcycle
ofiicer at 29.2 miles per hour.

The total actual expense for the derby was
$231.25 and was distributed as follows:

Six Trophies and Engraving . . . . . . ..$ 85.00
Hunting Knives for all Contestants. . 86.25
Newspaper Cuts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00
Emblems for all Contestants . . . . . . .. 20.00
Paper and Stencils... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12.00
Postage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.00

$231.25

The opinion in Burbank would seem to be that
the First Annual Soap Box Derby was a success.
In an evaluation meeting of the club, many of the
committee members felt that our work another
year could be greatly improved} However, it was
successful enough to warrant its becoming an an—
nual event, expanded to include contestants from
surrounding communities.

The derby was an excellent example of commit-
tee cooperation in a men’s service club. Eighty-
iive per cent of the total membership of fifty played
an active part in planning and directing the event.

 

1. The Burbank Y’s Men’s Club would be glad to furnish upon

request an. itemized evalution which appliesrdircctly'to- the
Burbank situation. '

Nature Study and Gardening

(Continued from page 651)

lady beotles, parasitic flies, dr'agon fly.
4. Insectiverous animals—birds, bats, toads, frogs,
spiders, salamanders.

VIII. The habits of some common birds to be

identified and learned are:

1. Common song birds—nesting habits and songs.
2. Harmful birds.
3. How to attract birds—food, baths, ibird houses.

IX. Some methods used in studying trees——

orchard and forest—are :

1. Label trees in park area.
2. Learn bark, leaf, lbranching, form.
3. Guess at height of trees.

X. Identify wild flowers of forest, held, gar-
den, and park.

XI. Be alert to observe and study any natural
object.

XII. Be enthusiastic and your interest will be
contagious.

During the designated nature study week Five
groups of children, between twenty-five and thirty
in number, one group each day, were taken on a
nature study walk, through one of the city parks
and along the banks of streams. The program
leader and the local recreation director guided the
children on these nature hikes. The children re-
sponded enthusiastically. They scurried about
bringing up specimens of flowers; leaves, insects,
and other nature material, asking many questions
about what they found and saw. It is soon evident
to a nature study leader that little children can
easily be taught to see about them many interest-
ing objects and phenomena of nature. They ask,
“What is this?” “How does this animal fight P”
“\Nhy can the water-skipper walk on water?”
This was learning and recreation of the highest
type. The children asked, “When can we go on a
nature walk again?” '

Another feature of the Fort Wayne recreation
program was the children’s victory gardens, ad-
jacent to one of the city parks and near one of the
public schools. The children considered it fun to
work in their gardens. There were thirty-six in-
dividual plots, each 20’ by 20’. The gardens were
laid out, planted, and cared for by the children.
They organized a little garden club and the boy
president was an enthusiastic and capable leader.
One of the teachers in the public schools was em-
ployed by the Park Board to be at the gardens
each afternoon to assist and instruct the young

RECREATION

RECREATION ACTIVITIES IN SAN FRANCISCO’S HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS 671

gardeners. The children placed a flag at each gar-
den' and entered a contest on growing the best and
cleanest garden. They often left their play and
games at home and in the parks to work in their
gardens. Parents soon became interested in this
project and many visitors drove by or stopped to
see the gardens and the children at work.

The expansion of children’s gardens to other
sections of the city is a considered plan of the City
Park Board. Fort \Vayne’s parks are excellently
adapted to nature study and gardening for the
children of the city, and the past year’s experi—
ence in these projects proves that the children
respond heartin to these forms of recreation.

Recreation Activities in San Francisco's

Housing Developments

4’ Continued from page 646)

\Ve work on the theory that the tenants in a
Housing Development are no different from those
in other residential areas and their participation in
and conduct of groups and programs is invited on
the same terms. They have been very successful
in assuming responsibility for dances, dinners,
social activities, picnics. special activities for chil-
dren, craft groups.

Both the Recreation Department and the Hous-
ing Authority in San Francisco wish to continue
their plan which has now been in operation for five
years. Under this plan the Housing Authority
turns over all recreation facilities to the Recrea-
tion Department for operation. The Recreation
Department furnishes staff, the Housing Author-
ity maintenance, heat, light and janitorial services.
Through the Community Service Fund, supplies
and equipment are available. This fund also is in
a position in the initial stages to underwrite mo—
tion picture shows, dances, boxing.

The cooperative plan started with slum clear-
ance; housing expanded tremendously with the
necessity for defense housing and in San Fran-
cisco will continue in permanent housing develop-
ments as the new projects are completed (seven
are contemplated at present in addition to the five
long in Operation).

Toward an Indefinite Future

Because of the acute housing shortage it would
appear that defense housing units will have to be
maintained more or less indefinitely and recrea-

tion must do its part in this very important field
of service.

MARCH 1946

    
 

 

'
1%

SPORT w
EQUIPMENT

€400.49 IiAWLINGs
deli!” ATHLETIC GOODS

40»: 30W Spa/u!
Available from

Leading Athletic Goods
Distributors

MANUFACTURING Bl].

 
 
   
 

 

  

 , J
n‘ , v
‘ f i .

.1
1.

ST. LOUIS ' MISSOURI

 

In San Francisco, before an area is subdivided,
a representative of the Recreation Department
consults with the sub-dividers regarding their
general plan; what portion of the sub-division will
be residential property; what portion business
property; what portion school, church, or organi—
zation property. An estimate is made of the num—
ber of children to be located in the area, the prox-
imity to other playgrounds is noted and the size of
the playground for the sub-division is determined.
Before streets are laid out by the sub-division, the
location of the playground is decided upon by the
Recreation Commission. If possible it is placed
adjoining or near a school site. This is advisable
in San Francisco where available land is limited.

A representative of the Recreation Department
keeps in touch with the sub-dividers regarding
grades and location of streets, in Order that the
interests of the Recreation Department are safe-
guarded.

The property is immediately tied up on a pur-
chase lease basis—so much down and so much a
year for three or four years.

672 MAGAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

The Child, December 1945

Camps for Children with and without Physical
Handicaps, Juanita Luck and Betty Huse

The Journal of Health and Physical Education, January

1946

Health and Physical Fitness for All American Chil-
dren and Youth (Available in booklet form from
American Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, NW,

Washington 6, D. C. Price 10 cents.)
“Keeping Fit at All Times”—-a radio script
Training Student’ Officials, Carl Nordly
The Need for Realism, Courage and Invention in

Modern Dance, Juana De Lalban

Camping Magazine, January 1946
Social Values in Archery, Blanche Harrison Lapp

Beach and Pool, January 1946

Trends in Swimming for Safety, Health and Fun,

Howard R. DeNike
Pool Side Control of Swimming Pool Water, R. N.

Perkins

Think, January 1946
Art Therapy for Disabled Veterans, Malvina Hoff-

man

The Journal of Education, January 1946

Education, Recreation and Conservation, Reynold E.
Carlson

The Nation’s Schools, January 1946
The Child and His Leisure, Hanne J. Hicks

The National Parent-Teacher, December 1945
Riding Your Hobby Pony

Scholastic Coach, January 1946
Recreation Buildings, Areas and Equipment—entire
issue

PAMPHLETS

The People of America—Their Origins, Beliefs, and Con-
tributions to Her Culture, Lili Heimers and Margaret
G. Cook

New Jersey State Teachers College, Upper Mont-
clair, New Jersey. Price 25 cents. (Remittance

must accompany order. No stamps.)

Let’s Learn to Listen
Wisconsin Joint Committee for Better Radio Listen-
ing. Mrs. N. \V. Madding, 143 N. Hancock, Madi-
son, W’isconsin. Price 25 cents

Planning for Recreation Areas and Facilities in Small
Towns and Cities
Federal Security Agency, thce of Community War

Services, Recreation Division, Washington, D. C.
Price 20 cents. (Superintendent of Documents,

U.  Government Printing Othce, Washington 25,
D. .

A Study of the Desirability of Tackle Football in Grades
7 and 8

Oshkosh Department of Recreation and Department
of Physical and Health Education, Wisconsin Rec-

reation Association, Secretary’s Office, 3841 W.
St. Paul Avenue, Milwaukee 8, Wis.

The Community Can Do It——Make a Plan

Australian Broadcasting Commission, Sydney, Aus-
tralia. Price two shillings

What Is Your State Youth Commission

New York State Youth Commission, 24 James St.,
Albany, N. Y.

Conservation—A Way of Life
Annual Report, 1945, Sherwood Forest Camp. Park
and Playground Association, Room 1003, 613 Locust
Street, St. Louis, Missouri

Commemoration Through Community Services—Trends
in Living Memorials
The American City Magazine, 470 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16, N. Y. Price $1.00

 

 

Our Lively Children

(Continued from page 642)

on the way home, producing a neighborhood con-
ferenee and general ill-will and recrimination.

Presumably there was also some studying done.

Home Resumes Its Duties

It is amazing how weariness settles down like
a storm cloud on the small boy, however, when he
finds himself up against the dismal duty of a half
hour’s practice at the piano. Headaches set in, the
stomach grows sick, a backache joins other serious
disorders, and only the resolute parent who has seen
this chronic pattern many times and noted the
timing of its incidence will heartlessly drive this
pitiable lad to his musical exercises. Yet. once
they are done, the recovery is so rapid as to be

miraculous.

Now, happily, there may still be time for some
late afternoon ice skating, a game of ring toss, the
building of a snow house, and, after supper, some
parchesi, gin rummy or a few tricks of magic, to
which parents must give their devoted attention
and proper admiration. Weariness will show itself
without fail, again, when a bath is proposed, but
immediately afterward children will once again be
the “only really living people” in their otherwise
weary world. It really seems absurd to drive them
to bed at 8:30, still wide-eyed at the miracles
around them, and needing sleep less than anybody
else in the house. But either they go to bed, or
their parents must, from utter exhaustion.

—Reprinted by permission from “Topics of the Times,”
,New York Times, January 28, 1946.

RECREATION

!
l

LESSONS FROM A GLOBAL RECREATION PROGRAM 673

Lessons from a Global Recreation
Program

(Continued from page 628)

recreation program sponsored by the military. Men
and women who have never thought that the re-
sponsibility of recreation was morethan their own
personal problem are now accustomed to expect a
decent and intelligent provision of off-duty recrea-
tion opportunities. I am certain that this thought
will be carried back into their community life—
that they will look to you as recreation leaders to
provide intelligently an opportunity for them to
participate in a leisure time program somewhat
paralleling their wartime experience.

In closing—and for the purpose of going on
record—permit me to indicate how the Navy feels
about recreation. I know of no better way than
to quote Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs, formerly
chief of the Bureau of Naval Personnel. Admiral
Jacobs has this to say about recreation:

“In the initial, stages of this war, the welfare
and recreation services helped greatly to bridge
the gap between civilian and naval life for the men
training earnestly for the tasks that lay ahead.
These same welfare and recreation services did
much to enable our forces to maintain a healthy
mental and physical condition during that period
of waiting prior to major actions.

“As the war progressed, increased welfare and
recreation services provided the relaxation so
eagerly sought by naval personnel during the brief
respites between battles. ‘

“\Vith victory, the final stage involving de—
mobilization and readjustment within the naval
service makes the welfare and recreation services
of the Navy even more important. Commanding
officers and recreation officers must double their
efforts to insure that during this transition period
all naval personnel will have increased oppor-
tunity to engage in wholesome recreation activities
to sustain the morale of all personnel at its present
high level.

“\Velfare and recreation will continue in the
peacetime Navy as a keystone of the Navy’s per-
sonnel program.”

A Tribute

I can’t relinquish the privilege of standing before
.you without saying a few words on behalf of the
large group of members and associates of the Na-
tional Recreation Association who gave the Navy
such excellent services as Recreation and Welfare

MARCH 1946

IHDE
YOUR
HOBBY

with these

HELPFUL

ties

SIMPLIFIED DRA‘WING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .31.50
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
FASHION SKETCHES, by Charlotte Young . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . 1.00

OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1.00
PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCH ES,byCharlattn H.Yonng 1.00
CARTOONING IS A FUNNY BUSINESS, by S. B. Faier 1.00
BUSINESS OF CABTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
DRAWING FOR ILLUSTRATION, by Arthur Zaidenberg 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING. by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street New Yorlr, N. Y.

 

Officers during the war. Many of them are pres-
ent here tonight. They never fired a shot, although
a great many of them were out there with us duck-
ing when dangerous things were headed our way.
They did provide for the clean eye and steady
aim of the men whose job it was to fire the shots.

You are to be congratulated for being associated
with such a fine group of men. I wish to take this
occasion to express the sincere appreciation of the
Navy for their magnificent performance.

The Ways of the People

(Continued from page 641)

ourselves and show others that people can live
together in peace and harmony, without forgetting
the manifestations of culture which make each
racial and national group distinctive. Our national
culture is being woven from the warp and woof of
the variegated strains of many nations. No one
would want to dull the richness of that pattern.
How bleak indeed would be the cultural outlook
for the future if we overlooked the distinctive, in-
dividual cultures in a universal, standardized, regi-
mented culture.

674 LEADERSHIP AND RECREATION

proceeclingd

of the
TWENTY-EIGHTH NATIONAL

RECREATION CONGRESS

A limited edition of the twenty-
eighth Congress Proceedings is on
the press. It will include, among
other things, the full text of
speeches made at general sessions,
summaries of all seCtion meet-
ings, and a report on the Indus-
trial Conference.

Price $l.75
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW

from

National Recreation Association

3l5 FOURTH AVENUE
New York I0.I N. Y.

Leadership and Recreation
(Continued from page 650)
with an adult (as a symbol) changes. In therapy,
we know that changed feelings toward an indi—
vidual are transformed into a changed feeling to-
ward the world generally, which may also have
been the case with this girl, thereby reducing her

self-protective “toughness.” This episode illustrates '

the principle of choice by exposure.

The Nature of Democratic Leadership

The contrasts between leadership in a democra—
tic and an autocratic group are very sharp. In any
autocratic group, there is really no leadership, for
the relation is 'one of domination and submission.
Democratic leadership implies mutual participa—
tion, acceptance, and respect. Such a leadership
relation does not preclude restraint or authority,
however, when the occasion warrants it. The func-
tions of recreational leadership are not rigidly cir-
cumscribed; they are flexible and multiple. The
leader cannot remain consistently inactive or con-
tinually assertive. The needs of the situation must
be met in accordance with the best interests of the
members. In working with social clubs, groups in
a manual activity, or physical education, one can-

not coniine himself to one type of leadership only,
such as Zaissez-j‘aire, democratic, or autocratic.

A leader has to adjust his role to the needs of a
specific situation that would help individuals and
the group in their movement toward higher and
more integrated forms of expression. In a situa-
tion that holds promise of constructive movement
through the efforts of the group itself, the (disses:—
j‘aire approach would be indicated. This is equally
true of an individual who seems to be able to solve
his own problems or overcome dilliculties. On the
other hand, in situations that appear to disrupt
morale and upset the recreational program, asser-
tiveness on the part of the leader is imperative.

Sometimes it is necessary to use actual prohibi-
tion and restraint. It is of utmost importance,
however, that these do not become either preva—
lent or frequent, for the value of the recreational
activity may as a result be destroyed and the par-
ticipants alienated.

The Personality of the Leader

The ability to employ different leadership tech-
niques is conditioned by inner freedom, pliability,
and personal development of the leader. One who
is rigid and unable to make adjustments easily is
unsuitable for the role of leadership. Only people
who are themselves psychologically free are able to
allow freedom and one who has flexibility can
tolerate it in others. The autocratic leader is com-
pelled by his insecurity and fear to be arbitrary
and impose authority. A secure person is also
freedom-giving and flexible. Multiphase leader-
ship is honest and free of emotional restrictions
It is neither overpermissive or overauthoritarian.
Leaders who rigidly insist on “democratic” pro-
cedures when they are not applicable to a situation
are harming, rather than aiding, the recreational
setting. Many matters discussed for hours with
consequent discouragement and rage are best
solved by individual decision. Frequently, groups
disintegrate because of petty annoyances and mean—
ingless squabbles over insignificant details. An ex—
perienced and flexible leader can judge the rela-
tive importance of the matter at hand and deal
with it accordingly. Unimportant matters, if given
too much stress, irritate the group, create resent—
ments against the leader, arouse conflicts among
members, and lower interest potentials. One of
the best means of achieving mutual acceptance be-
tween leader and group is the leader’s capacity for
active participation without exerting too much
power.

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

.Little Loomhouse Country Fair

Contemporary American Handwoven Textiles. Kenwood
Hill. Louisville 8, Kentucky. $2.00.
ESIGNED AS A CATALOGUE for the Little Loomhouse
Country Fair, this 79 page booklet is a record of the
patterns used by some of the outstanding weavers of the
country who are making contemporary texiles that may
become heirlooms of the future. Illustrations, descrip-
tions and, in many cases, 'full directions for making the
design are included in the catalogue. This is a booklet
that should prove valuable to weavers everywhere.

Let's Have Fun

By Beatrice Elizabeth Allen. “An Adventure in Health
and Recreation for Juniors.” The Girls’ Friendly SO-
ciety, U.S.A. 386 Fourth Avenue, New York. $.25.

TIIIS ATTRACTIVE FAMFHLET personifies fun both in con-

tents and illustrations. It is made up of a number of
bulletins giving directions for games to dance and sing,
games of skill and action, games Of wits and fun and
games to make yourself.

Recreation workers will ‘Flnd Let’s Have Fun a valu—
able addition to their libraries.

Moditied Activities in Physical

EducaSon

By Doreen Foote. Inor Publishing Company, Inc., New
York. $2.00.

HE DESCRIPTIVE SUBTITLE of this book reads “A hand-

book of games, procedures, classification and organi-
zation for pupils in junior and senior high school who
cannot participate in the regular physical education ac:-
tivities." It should prove of real help to any person
working with youngsters who, for one reason or another
must curtail their physical activities but who still seek
the fun and skills of the body in sports and games modi-
Fled to suit their particular limitation.

Physical Education for Elementary

Schooh

By Mary Louise Curtiss and Adelaide B. Curtiss. The
Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

$2.75.

THE AvOWED AIM of these suggested graded programs

for physical education with children of the grade
school level is to further the education Of the whole
child. The programs are Offered tO the classroom teacher
after being tested in the public schools of greater Cleve-
land. A large part of the book is devoted to program
materials.

MARCH 1946

 

Barnes Otticial Guides

THE OFFICIAL SWIMMING GUIDE, 1946
THE OFFICIAL WRESTLING GUIDE, 1945-46
THE OFFICIAL BOXING GUIDE, 1946
A. S. Barnes 8: Company, New York. Each $.50.

HREE NEW ADDITIONS to the Barnes Official guide series

are now available. Each contains the current rules to-
gether with other pertinent facts of interest to devotees
of the sport indicated in the title.

Stories From East and North

Compiled by Marion Bilden Cook. Silver Burdett Co.,
New York. $1.40.

THIS IS THE FIRST in a series of stories for children at
the primary grades age level. The series title is
“Children Of the U. SA.” The stories are designed to
give youngsters an idea of how their fellow Americans in
different parts of the country live. The hrst collection
includes stories about children in the states, north and

east Of the Mississippi.

Fishing Photos

South Bend Bait Co., South Bend, Indiana. $1.00.

IF YOU’RE LOOKING for really Fine Fishing pictures your

search may well end here. Each print in this port-
folio of eight prize-winning photographs measures 11x15
inches and is ready for framing.

 

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MR3. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
GusTAvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. AOALIS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. RORERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HowARO BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORDETT, Portland, Ore. -
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
MRS. THOHAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
RORERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARRowER, F itchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscan, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRs. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
H. MCK. LANOON, Indianapolis, Ind.
SUSAN M. LEE, Boston, Mass.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRs. SIGIwND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
unnch M. WARRURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.
STANLEY WoonwARO, Washington, D. C.

675

