Merely Questions

DOES ANYONE QUESTION beginningrecreation programs with immediate

interests of young people and trying to give the young men and young women the
simple fun which they ask? ‘

Does anyone question conducting activities under such leadership as to en—
large the experience of the individual, help the individual to be more creative,
help Secure cultural growth, develop a spirit of comradeship, bring about naturally
and normally a feeling of belonging, of having an important place, of being "
needed, of being. part of a larger community? (The question is not of talking
about these objectves with youngsters, but having the leaders keep them actively
in mind.

May it be assumed that there is value in itself in happy activity for
children? Does personal development accompany happy activity under the right
leadership? '

I

Should the thought be to provide a program carried on in a certain atmos-'
phere and with certain traditions which it has been found by experience promote
the normal growth of individuals? Does anyone advocate the carrying on of
certain activities without reference to the atmosphere that prevails or the
standards or conditions which promote growth?

Is there any question about the desirability of carefully led bikes to visit‘
historical spots, to see interesting individual developments, to observe unusual
geologicalformations? Should such trips be left to public schools?

What are the kinds of individuals being served now by the playgrounds,
the recreation centers, swimming pools, bathing beaches? What kinds of indivi-
duals are not making use of these-opportunities? Are higher income groups
neglected? Are youth being given an opportunity to help in planning their
recreation programs? '

Is there any loss to the men, women and' children to be served if church
leaders are helped to develop strong recreation programs right in the churches?
Are churches making full use of community softball, basketball, baseball, swim—
ming facilities? How far should church groups as groups come to the recreation
centers and use the tax supported facilities? In one community several hundred
volunteers from the churches were trained in classes conducted by the municipal
recreation executive, that they might give recreation leadership in the home and in
the church. Is there any reason this should not be done generally?

Is there any question about the necessity of cooperation among recreation
centers, playgrounds, recreatlon leaders, 11brar1es, museums and art galleries?

Are people depending on commercial recreation when they should be pre-
ferring community recreation opportunlty? Need there be any conflict between
community recreation and commerc1al recreatlon?

Should recreation be thought of as an integral part of education, of health.
social hygiene, delinquency prevention? If the answer to each of these questions is
Yes, is it also understood that these are not the main objectives in city recreation
programs?

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

 

SEPTEMBER I946

 

September

 

Photo by Wisconsin Forestry De partma

\

RECREATION

290

Organizing Recreation in a

Small Community“

HIS IS A STORY of the pro-

motion and organization of

a year—round public recrea-
tion program in Menomonee
Falls, Wisconsin, a village of 1,500, fifteen miles
northwest of Milwaukee. The reason for telling
this story is the belief that it may be helpful to
some other small community similar in size and
even larger that has a desire to “do something”
for its youth. So often there is a desire to provide
leisure time activities but a lack of knowledge of
how to go about it prevents action. While the pro-
cedure outlined here may not be ideal or complete
in detail, it is not theoretical—this is the way this
village proceeded and it has a very successful rec-
reation program for all ages.

Menomonee Falls is a typical American village
in a good farming district with an assessed valua-
tion of $2,250,000 and a tax rate of $30 per thous-
and. It has one public school building with Isixteen
classrooms, a large study hall, an auditorium—gym-
nasium with a stage, a small surfaced playground
for the grade school children, three surfaced tennis
courts, and an unlighted' football held. There are
300 high school pupils, 200 of whom are tuition
students, and 225 grade school 'children. There are
200 children enrolled in the parochial grade school.

The village has a park of twenty-seven acres
located in the center of the town, with a band-
stand, a hardball diamond, a lighted softball dia-
mond, and several picnic areas with outdoor tire-
places. There is a new village hall housing the
library and providing a large room usable for com—
munity meetings. There are four or live small in-
dustries employing from ten to forty persons, one
bank, a weekly newspaper, four churches, a new
motion picture theater, iine bowling alleys, and the
usual run of stores, restaurants,'garages, taverns.

Community organizations include the Boy
Scouts, the Girl Scouts, the American Legion,
Woman’s Club, Rotary, Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion, Masonic Lodge, Eastern Star, three church

 

*Reprinted by permission from Park: and Recreation, May-June,
1946.

SEPTEMBER 1946

By D. B. DYER

Former Secretary
Wisconsin Recreation Association

guilds, a rifle club, an American
Legion band, and a village base-
ball and basketball team in the
Land O’ Lakes League.

How It Started

The Woman’s Club started the movement for a
recreation department. This organization felt that
some type of organized activity was needed, par-
ticularly for the high school students. As a result,
a chairman was appointed who selected a commit-
tee, regardless of membership in the Woman’s
Club, to investigate and determine whether or not
an organized community recreation program for a
village of this size was feasible.

The first meeting found three men and three
women present. The secretary of the Wisconsin
Recreation Association was invited to attend and
discussed the problem with them. A plan of pro-
cedure was adopted and the movement was under
way.

This plan provided for a course of instruction
on community recreation, with one lesson or meet-
ing each week for a period of six weeks. At each
“lesson” each person present was urged to bring
another mother or father to the next meeting. As
a.resu1t, the iinal meeting found twenty—five pres—
ent, and in all about fifty different persons at-
tended the “school of recreation.” The secretary of
the Wisconsin Recreation Association was present
at each meeting and conducted at the “school.”

The Promotional Committee

Everyone who had attended the “school” was
asked to become a member of the promotional
committee. This committee was to promote the
organization of a public recreation department by
popular demand. This demand was to be created
by educating the general public as to the recrea-
tional needs of the community and the values of
supervised recreation.

The chairman appointed by the Woman’s Club
called a meeting of all those interested in serving
on the promotional committee. This group elected
a permanent chairman and secretary-treasurer.

291

292 ORGANIZING RECREATION IN A SMALL COMMUNITY .

Committees and committee chairmen were. selected
by this promotional committee as follows: (I) Fi-
nance—to raise a small sum by contributions for
incidental expenses; (2) Publicity—to prepare
newspaper articles and leaflets; (3) Speakers—to
arrange for speakers to appear before local organ—
izations; (4) Petition—to prepare and present a
petition to the village board and to the school
board; (5) Survey—to make a survey of existing
local facilities, school enrollment by grades, village
assessed valuation, tax rate, general school and
village expenses; (6) Recreation Program and
Budget—to recommend the type of program and
plan of leadership and estimate the costs; (7) Edu-
cation—to conduct an educational program on rec-
reation for the general public through a series. of
mimeographed letters .and pamphlets.

The chairman of each committee was privileged
to select his or her'lown committee members and
to also select members who were not on the pro-
motional committee.

Campaign for a Public Recreation Department

The promotional committee decided on a six-
week campaign of recreational education. This
campaign was to be closed with a general public
meeting in the village hall.

The publicity committee furnished the local news-
paper each week with two good articles on recrea-
tion. One of these articles was general in charac-
ter—on the need of recreation in the United States,
juvenile delinquency, the values of organized rec-
reation, what other cities were doing, quoting well—
known people; a second article each week dealt
with the local need, what was being done to
promote the organization of a local community rec-
reation department, what facilities were available,
what the program would consist of, and what the
cost would be per year to the individual citizen.

The speakers committee arranged for speakers
to appear at the meetings of fraternal, social, and
civic organizations.

The finance committee of three members col-
lected a sum of $2 5 to defray the expenses of the
promotional campaign.

The survey committee secured the information
for the publicity, education and speakers commit—
tees as to local matters such as assessed valuation,
tax rate, facilities available, school enrollment, vil-
lage and school costs, youth organizations existing
in the village, extracurricular activities in school,

and the like.
The petition committee circulated the following

‘ petition during the ten days previous to the public

meeting in the village hall:

We the undersigned citizens of Menomonee Falls,
do hereby petition the village board to appropriate
$500 for leadership for a community recreation pro—
gram and to grant permission for the use of such
village facilities as possible for the conduct of such a
program; we further respectfully petition the board
of education to grant the use of such school facilities
as possible for the conduct of such a program—such

. program to 1be under the direction of a recreation com-

mission appointed sby the village board. '
The education committee of ten prepared a series

of five letters and a pamphlet. These mimeo—
graphed letters were short and each one dealt with
a particular thought on community recreation as
explained at the “recreation school.” The topics
covered were: (I) What is recreation; (2) Why
play leadership is needed; 3) The values of or-
ganized play; (4) The need of an organized play
program in Menomonee Falls; (5) The proposed
program for this community. Each week mimeo-
graphed letters in the order as listed above were
mailed to 400 families on the day preceding the
issue of the local weekly newspaper. The mailing
lists for these letters were compiled by securing
the membership roster of the various social, civic,
and fraternal organizations in the community.
These lists were cross—checked against each other
and then checked with the telephone book so that
no one would receive more than one letter each
week. One committee member was in charge of a
particular mailing list and was responsible for ad-
dressing and stamping the envelopes. All letters
when ready for mailing were turned over to the
general chairman of the promotional committee
who mailed all of the letters on the same day. If a
committee member was responsible for the mailing
list of an organization, such as the Rotary Club,
this committee member secured the written signa-
ture of the president of that organization on each
of the five different letters. The sixth week of the
campaign, this committee issued a mimeographed
folder which was distributed to every home in the
village by the Boy Scouts. This pamphlet dealt with
the need of supervised recreation in this commu- _
nity, the existing facilities, how they could be used, t
who would benefit by the program, the proposed
program for children, teen agers, and adults, and
the estimated cost of such a public department. It
also invited every adult citizen to attend a public
meeting to be held in the village hall the following
evening.

The program and budget committee outlined a \'

RECREATION

ORGANIZING RECREATION IN A SMALL COMMUNITY 293

program with estimated costs after conferring with
representatives of the Wisconsin Recreation As-
sociation. n

Mimeographed copies of these letters and the
pamphlet may be obtained from the secretary of
the Wisconsin Recreation Association, 3841 W.
St. Paul Avenue, Milwaukee 8, Wisconsin.

The Results of the Campaign _

After six weeks of a “recreation school” for the
promotional committee and six weeks of campaign-
ing to educate the general public through the local
newspaper with two articles each week, with a
mimeographed letter reaching each home each
week, with a speaker appearing before each organi-
zation, with a circulation of a petition, with the
distribution of a mimeographed folder to each
home, the campaign was brought to a close with a
public meeting in the village hall. In the past, pub—
lic meetings of fifty in this Community were con-
sidered successful. On this particular evening,
over 200 adults of the village were present at
which time the secretary of the Wisconsin Recre—
ation Association reviewed briefly the work that
had been done and repeated the information given
out in the letters and the pamphlet. After his talk,
the persons present were requested to ask such
questions as they desired. On the following Mon-
day evening the petition with more than 250 sign-
ers was presented to the village board and the
school board. The former immediately appropri-
ated $500 for leadership and $250 for supplies and
equipment; the school board granted the use of the
school facilities with only a charge of seventy-five
cents an hour for janitorial services. The village
board appointed a Recreation Commission of five,
three men and two women, one of. whom was a
member of the village board.

Menomonee Falls had its year-round public
recreation program.

The Recreation Commission

The Recreation Commission held its first meet—
ing in September, four months after the action
taken by the Woman’s Club. A set of rules and
regulations were adopted covering the appoint-
ment of commission members, the election of of-
iicers, their duties, meetings, the program, the
budget, and the employment of personnel. Prepar-
ations were made and the school social center
opened to the public on Monday following Thanks-
giving. This same commission is now serving its
third year and has established an enviable record
for accomplishments.

SEPTEMBER 1946

The Program

The school social center operates from the mid—
dle of November until the first of April and is open
on Monday and Thursday evenings, Saturday
mornings, afternoons and evenings. On Monday

- evenings from 7 :30 to 8:30 there is volleyball for

a mixed group in the gymnasium. From 8:30 to
9 :30 it is used by the men for basketball. Dartball
and table tennis are conducted in a classroom from
7:30 to 9:30. A class in needlecraft is conducted
in the home economics room, while the Parent—
Teacher Association chorus meets in the, kinder-
garten. On Thursday evenings the high school
boys who are not members of the high school squad
have the use of the gymnasium for basketball from
7:30 to 8:30, and the girls of the village have its
use from 8:30 to 9:30. The table tennis and dart—
ball room is also open for play, and a class in con—
tract bridge is held in another classroom.

On Saturday mornings there is a grade school
basketball league from 9 :00 to 12:00 for all grade
school boys in the public and parochial schools. In
the afternoon from I :00 to 3:00 the grade school
girls have the use of the gymnasium for games.
From 3:00 to 4:00 P. M. boys of the first, second,
third and fourth grades have a formal gym class
with half of the period devoted to games. Every
other Saturday evening there is a dance from 7:30
to II :30 with a juke box furnishing the music.
This dance is sponsored by a high school club or
class, and an admission fee of ten cents is charged.
Also on Saturday mornings there is a class in
rhythmics for children of the lower grades, with a
class for girls of the fourth, fifth, and sixth grades '
in creative dancing in the afternoon. Another class
in creative dancing for seventh and eighth graders
and high school girls is conducted on Thursday
evenings for one hour.

During the months of April and May, Septem-
ber and October, a spring and fall playground pro-
gram is conducted two evenings a week and on
Saturdays in the village park. This program con—
sists of softball leagues, touch football, volleyball,
low organized games, and children’s tournaments.

During the winter ball diamonds are flooded for
a skating rink with the lights of the softball dia—
mond providing light for the skaters.

A summer playground program is instituted as
soon as school lets out for the summer vacation
and continues for a period of ten weeks. The play—
ground is open from 9:30 to II :30 A. LL, I :00 to
5:00 and 6:30 to 9:30, five days a week. The di—
rector (man) is on duty all three periods with a

294 ORGANIZING RECREATION IN A SMALL COMMUNITY

BUDGET
SOCIAL CENTER

NUMBER SES-

ACTIVITY MONDAY THURSDAY SATURDAY SIONS PER YEAR TOTAL COST
. Director $3.00
Gym Director $3.00 Director $3.00 (A M ) 50 $150 00
Table Tennis
and Dartball Instructor $1.50 Instructor $1.50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 51.00
Chorus Leader $2.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 40 00
Sew1ng - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Instructor $2.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 30 00
Knitting Instructor $2.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 30 00
‘ Director $4.00
Social Dance . . . . - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Eve ) 10 40 00
. Instructor (A.M.) 16 @ $2.50 40.00
Dance Class _ . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . Instructor $1.50 $2.50 (Aft.) 16 @ $1.50 24.00
Director (Aft)
Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , _ _ . _ _ , _ , , , , , , , , $3 _00 16 48 00
Contract Bridge .............. . . Instruictor $5.00 .............. . . 10 50 00
Dance
Oharperone . . . . . . . - . . . - - - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Evening $2.50 10 25.00
' $1.00 — (A.M.)
$1.00 — (Aft) 16 @ $3.00 - 48.00
Doorman $100 $1.00 $1.00 —— (Eve) 34 @ $1.00 34-00
‘ . t 16 @ $3.00 48.00
Janitor Cost $1.50 $1.50 $3.00 34 @ $1.50 51.00
Girls’ Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1.50 —— (Aft.) 16 24 00
Boys’ Gym . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1.50 - (Aft) 16 24 00
Boys’ Handcraft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1.50 - (Aft) 16 24 00
TOTAL $781 00

 

SPRING PLAYGROUND

 

 
 
 
    

NUMBER SES-

 

ACTIVITY ' TUESDAY THURSDAY SATURDAY . SIONS PER YEAR TOTAL COST
After School Director $2.00 Director $2.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 $32.00
Evening Director $2.00 Director $2.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 ‘ 32.00
A. M. and Aft. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Director $5.00 8 40.00

TOTAL 1 _ $104.00
FALL PLAYGROUND NOTE
Same as in the Spring—Total . . . . . . . . .$ 104.00 Income: Class Enrollment Fees—Adult Classes,
$1. 50 per person. §
_ SUMMER PLAYGROUND Social Dances—~10 cents per person. “i
DEWEY—$35 PE:r week—10 WCCkS- - - - -$ 350-00 Softball League Franchise Fees — $3.00 per
Directress—$Io per week—~10 weeks. . .$ 100.00 team,
SOftball OmCiaIS—$I-00 Per game - - - - - - 36-00 Village Board pays for electricity for softball
m lights.
$ '486-00 School Board makes no charge for heat, light
» 1
Grand Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1,475.00 and water. - . - \

RECREATION

ORGANIZING RECREATION IN A SMALL COMMUNITY 295

girl leader on duty during the afternoon session
only. The program consists of low-organized
games, relays and races, quiet games, handcraft,
sand modeling, and high-organized games. This
last summer there was a softball league of adults of
nine teams, the age ranging from eighteen to sixty
years. A

The commission also conducts special holiday
parties and cooperates with all agencies and or-
ganizations existing in the community, which de—
sire assistance in the promotion of youth activities.

Personnel

All activities are conducted under the leadership
of paid personnel. The school board has cooper-
ated with the recreation commission by employing
a male 'member of the faculty who has had some
experience in playground work or who has had
some training in the field of recreation. The year-
round program is under his direction. This plan
provides eleven months of employment for this
teacher, who ordinarily would work only nine
months. Furthermore, his after school and eve-

ning service during the regular school year supple- -

ments ’his school income considerably. This di-

rector is responsible to the recreation commission-

and consults with the principal of the school re—
garding the use of rooms and any questions that
may arise in the use of school facilities. It is his
duty to supervise all activities as well as personally
direct the social center activities in the gymnasium
on Monday and Wednesday evenings, conduct the
grade school basketball league on Saturday mom-
ings and the social center dances every other Sat-
urday evening. On Saturday afternoons he is on
the payroll, and the time is devoted to clerical
work and preparing publicity and articles for the
local newspaper.

He also conducts the spring and fall playground
programs and is directly in charge of the summer
playground program mornings, afternoons and eve—
nings five days a week for a period of ten weeks.

The teachers for the social center classes are
selected from the members of the school faculty
and citizens with special aptitudes. It is in this
manner that instructors are secured for classes in
sewing, needle work, community chorus, contract
bridge, rhythmics and dancing, table games, dart-
ball, and grade school girls’ games.

A high school student is employed to act as
doorman in the school building for every session
of activities conducted therein. It is his duty to act

&

SEPTEMBER 1946

as official greeter, disciplinarian, and handy man
for the director. ‘

The school employs a janitor and an assistant
janitor who works five hours per day. The assist-
ant janitor does half of the cleaning of the school,
working from 6:00 P. M. to II :00 P. 11., thereby
being on duty every evening the school is in use
for activities.

Popularity of the Program

Menomonee Falls began its community recrea-
tion program the first of December in 1943. The
village board originally appropriated $500 for
leadership and gave an additional $2 50 for the pur-
chase of supplies and equipment. This fund was
to carry the program through the 'social center
season and— through the spring and fall playground
seasons of 1944. By May, the program had proved
so popular that the village board appropriated an

‘additional $400 for an eight-week summer play-

ground season, something which had not been
planned for originally.

The attendance for the social center season
(December, 1943 through March, 1944) was as
follows: Saturday grade school basketball, 1,212;
Saturday grade school girls’ games, 653; Saturday
evening dances, 791; Wednesday evening social
center, 1,144; Saturday creative dance classes,
1,036; and other miscellaneous programs brought
the total attendance to, 5,756. The spring play-
ground attendance in 1944 totalled 1,339 and the
summer playground attendance for 1944 was 8,540,
making a total attendance from December 1, 1943
to August 1, 1944 of 15,635.

The second year, 1945, showed an increase in
attendance for all three playground seasons as well
as for the social center season. The social center
was opened one additional evening per week and
the summer playground season was extended to
ten weeks and the attendance during this summer
period alone exceeded 20,000 which was over 4,000
in excess of the total prOgram attendance in 1944.

The program is now in its third year. With the
return of many servicemen, with increased adult
participation and with added activities, it is rea-
sonable to believe there will be a decided increase
in attendance over 1945.

Value Received for Park Outlay

Like many other small communities, this village
invested money in a park for its citizens, amount-
ing to approximately $40,000. It is well located

( C ontz’mwd on page 330)

Student Union at Cornell University

year is definitely out of Stutz
bearcats and raccoon coats. Of all male stu—
dents now in college, it is estimated that more than
half are war veterans, going back to school under
the G.I. Bill of Rights. They are mostly in their
twenties, some of them are married, and all of
them are going to college to work and not to play.
Providing a social life for these men is proving
a bigger job for college authorities than simply
making available a dance floor, a name band and a
moon. By no means are the students today grim—
mer or more monastic than other young men in
' their twenties, but neither are they quite so light—
hearted and carefree as the traditional “Joe Col-
lege” of pre-war days—particularly not on $65 a
month for single men and $90 for married ones.
One of the first changes to be noticed on today’s
campus is that not quite so many men are turning
out for football or the other major sports. To be
an intercollegiate champion takes an almost in-
ordinate amount of time and hard work, and the
average veteran-student is not much interested.
One of the famous football stars of our time, for
example, had almost to be persuaded last spring
to even appear at practice.
. While not so many men are willing to do or die
for Alma Mater, however, the intramural athletic
fields are crowded. Most of the non-wounded men,
after three, four or five years in the service, re—

THE AMERICAN campus this'

turned to college in excellent physical shape and _

took back with them their liking for softball, touch
football and the other Army or Navy informal
sports. But in setting up an intramural league,
college officials have found that their schedules
can never be as rigid as in pre-wa_r days—time for
studying, working or even changing diapers must
have precedence.

Colleges everywhere are now operating at ca-
pacity (some officials will tell you at beyond
capacity), and the difficulty in recreation is finding
enough leaders and facilities. Campuses today have
almost the appearance of boom towns. Temporary
housing is scattered about and long lines form
everywhere for food, entertainment and almost
everything else. Officials are simply doing the best
they can, and luckily, in most places, it is proving
a very good “best” indeed.

At Willard Straight Hall, the student union at

296

By ROBERT HUTCHINGS

Cornell University in Ithaca, New
York, a small but experienced
staff under the very able direction of Foster Coffin
undertakes a bewildering array of student activi-
ties. In one typical week last spring, for example,
these separate things were going on within the
huge $1,500,000 memorial building:

A meeting every afternoon or evening of one or
more of the 13 student committees which plan the
Willard Straight program; on Monday, a semi-
monthly bridge party for the wives of law students ;
on Tuesday, the third session of a dance instruc-
tion class for men (with girls volunteering as
partners) ; on Wednesday, a regular bridge party
for graduate-wives ; and on Thursday, a public
forum and panel discussion on the subject of
“European Education.”

Over the week-end, these things were going on:
one of a series of weekly teas for women students ;-

a dance for the freshman class; an informal dance

for the Ist Battalion of the campus Navy unit; a

.“Mixing Bowl” open house, honoring the foreign

students; a “fireside” concert; a tea dance; a con-
cert by the University Orchestra; and a discussion
hour on “Journalism’s Reaction to the War.”

All of these activities with the exception of the
Navy dance were planned and carried through by
student committee members who hope that work—
ing in the “Straight,” as they familiarly call their
building, is a partial answer to the question, “How
can I get the most out of my college career ?”

The veterans at Cornell have taken an increas-
ingly active part in their own organization—the
Veterans’ Committee 'of Willard Straight Hall,
which was organized last fall. It is the only
campus-sponsored veterans’ group and has as its
primary responsibility serving as the principal liai-
son between the Veterans’ Administration and the
veteran students. With over 4,000 veterans at-
tending the fall semester, the Veterans’ Commit-
tee will be a vital student group on the campus
because it takes an active part in attempting to
solve the veterans’ problems in all areas—eco-
nomic, housing, academic, social, and recreation.

All of these activities are in addition to the tre-
mendous job which Willard Straight is doing in
providing meals, lounges, reading rooms and in-'
formal recreation facilities for its students. With

(Continued on page 343)

RECREATION

Ghoulies

UMMER is about to be
S over—officially. Au-

tumn is about to begin
—0ff1cially. Many recreation
programs are thinking of
moving indoors—at least in part. And
Halloween is just around the corner.
What are you planning for this high
feast? Here are stories from four com-
munities who have found ways and
means of keeping youngsters out of Hal-
loween mischief by providing for them
a lot of fun in the age-old tradition of
witches and black cats and bubbling
cauldrons and “things that go boom in
the night.”

NEWBURGH GOES
TO A CARNIVAL

All Hallows’ Eve in Newburgh, New
York, is looked forward to by all the
youngsters. No weird feast over a witch’s cauldron
is more regally heralded. A Halloween street
parade of costumed youngsters led by the 50 mem-
bers of the All-Girl Drum Corps starts off the
‘ festivities co-sponsored by the Recreation Depart-

ment and the Lions Club. The parade ends at the
State Armory building with an indoor Halloween
party.

This type of indoor celebration has been con-
ducted for several years by the Recreation Depart-
ment and the Lions Club with two definite ob-
jectives in mind. It provides Newburgh children
with a celebration that gives them the opportunity
to express in enthusiastic fun all the youthful spirit
that fills the air at this particular season of the
year. It reduces property damage by making the
indoor celebration so exciting that children would
rather attend than spend their time roving the
streets looking for mischief. The Executive Com—
mittee is assisted by 60 members of the Lions Club
who serve on the various committees and act as
judges, barkers, and booth attendants.

Costume Judging
In 1945 5,000 children and adults filled the big
:drill hall to capacity.
The 3,000 costume contestants were lined up in

the Armory Annex in single file, then marched in
revue across the stage for the judging of costumes.

SEPTEMBER 1946

    

Print by Gedge Harmon

and
Ghosties!

The semi-final winners were se-
lected by 10 judges. The classes
were the most original, funniest,
most beautiful, best impersona-
tion, and nationality. Age groups
were seven years and younger
and eight years and older.

' An Endless Panorama

When the parade of costumed
competitors began, it seemed an
endless panorama of clowns, gyp-
sies, farmers, dancers, fat men,
black face comedians, bridal
couples, and patriotic figures.
There were satins and silks, cot-
tons and cheesecloth. Most popular costume ma—
terials were pillow stuffings. Some costumes came
from the days of the covered wagons with women
in calicoes and sun bonnets. Armed forces imper-
sonations were plentiful. Believe it or not, there
was even a wolf in the parade. Many parents came
in costume. The continuous line of contestants
took an hour and a half to pass the judges. As
each participant crossed the stage he was presented
with a book of tickets entitling him to play at the

game booths.

Carnival

The second part of the program consisted of a
gigantic carnival. The sides of the big drill hall
were lined with 18 foot carnival booths decorated
in all the brilliant colors of the rainbow. There
were 20 booths, some of which were for children
seven years and younger. Each winner received a
gift card which he presented at the prize booth for
one of the 2,000 free prizes consisting of ice cream,
candy, and novelties donated by the Lions Club.

Guessing Booths

One of the special attractions of the carnival
were the guessing booths. Here on display was a
large pumpkin, a board four feet square covered
with many feet of fine wire, a large jar filled with
kernels of corn, and a board with a secret number

297

298 i GHO ULIES AND GHOSTIES!

on the back. The contestant filled out cards, guess-
ing how many pounds the pumpkin weighed, the
length of the wire on the board, the number of
kernels of corn that were in the jar, and what
number between I and 2,000 was hidden on the
back of the second board. At the end of the eve-
ning’s program the names of the winners were
announced.

Carnival Booths

The highlight of the evening came when the
carnival game booths were declared open and the
“barkers” began their chants. Hundreds of chil-
dren lined up to play the following:

Crazy Weight. Each contestant wrote his weight
on a blackboard and stepped upon a weighing
machine. If the guess on the blackboard was
within 10 pounds of the weight shown. on the
scales, the guesser received a gift card to be pre-
sented at the prize booth. What the contestant did
not know was that the barker had ‘an assistant
hidden behind the
scales who, by a
touch of his hand,
could manipulate
the weight of the
scales and make, it
“act crazy.”

Sevens. Two large
cubes were thrown
into a box four feet
square. Each cube
was numbered on
the ~sides from one
to six. If the top of
the two cubes added
up to seven, a gift
card was presented.

Pin Tail on Donkey.
This was an adapta-
tion of the old par-
lor game, but the
donkey was life
size!

Keg Fill. Six little
nail kegs setting in
a row. Try and get
two softballs in, out
of three throws.

Ball Roll. Here was

a 12 foot wooden
chute, three feet

wide, with the’surfa'ce studded with metal spikes.’
A boccie ball was rolled down the surface of the
chute and if it knocked over the bowling pin the
contestant won.

Arrow Drop. A rubber suction-head arrow was
dropped from a platform by the contestant on a
floor covered with hundreds of .checker-board
squares. The object was to make the head of the
arrow land completely within a square. (The suc—
tion head of the arrow was constantly smeared

with floor wax to make it stick to the checker-
boards.)

Colors. An archery target was placed Hat on the
ground. The contestant tossed a hockey puck with
the object of making it stay on the enlarged bull’s--
eye: (The game appeared simple but what could
not be noticed was the fact that the center straw
of the target was slightly raised causing the pucks

. in most cases to bounce off the center circle.)

 

Courtesy Recreation C ommissi'ou, Newburgh, N. Y. ,

RECREATION .

 

 

GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES! 299

Zelball. This was a battle between two contest-
ants. The first to bat the ball and string around
the red top of the pole won.

Penny Toss. Each contestant had five chances to!

‘ toss metal washers so that they landed in squares.

Knock Down Dolls. The object of ,this contest
was to knock the dolls off their perch with soft-
balls.

Witch's Broom. The small children had lots of
fun trying to tack some straw on the Witch’s
Broom.

Pocket Roll. Ping, ping, ping goes the little rub-
ber ball as it rolls down'the chute past the wire
nails. If it stops in a nail pocket the prize is yours!

Disc Drop. Nice big colored squares painted on
a slanted surface invited the youngsters to toss a
shufi’ieboard disc on a square to. win.

Bean Bag. Fifteen big holes in the clown’s face
waited to receive bean bags.

ROSWELL PLANS A FESTIVAL

On October 31, 1945, Roswell, New Mexico,
enjoyed its second Halloween Fun Festival. Like
the first one, in 1944, this was a part of the com-
munity recreation program. Roswell has a city
recreation council made up of representatives from
all recognized organizations and any other indi-
viduals whose interest, training, or experience jus-
tify their appointment. The budget comes from
three sources: city, county, and community chest.
Roswell has a full-time paid director and has em—
ployed part-time assistance when necessary.

The Fun Festival is planned with the idea of
giving both children and adults something to do on
the eve of All Soul’s Day. In order that other
communities may also enjoy a constructive and
not a destructive Halloween the following plan
might be helpful. '

Selling the idea is the first step in setting up
such an activity. Unless the idea is properly pre—
sented the program will fail. In 1944 a few key
men were approached. They agreed to sit in with
the council to see what plan could be worked out.
At that meeting it was decided to try the festival.
An outstanding young man was selected as gen-
eral chairman. He and the recreation director
broke down the plan for the evening’s program
into different activities with a chairman and com-
mittee appointed for each. Since the whole pro-
gram is a volunteer affair this plan kept anyone
from being overburdened with responsibility. The

SEPTEMBER 1946

Roswell Ad Club sponsored a treasure hunt.
Some 10,000 numbered tickets were distributed in
residence districts and in schools with numbers to
match some of them placed in screened downtown
store windows. The “unveiling” was at 5 P. M.
Children swarmed the streets comparing their num-
bers with those in the windows. When_they found
one to match, in they went to claim a prize. These
children had just enough time to run home, eat a
little, don a costume and get into the parade at
6:30. The school band, children and adults in
costume, and fioats from all P.T.A. units formed
the parade. They proceeded to the stadium where
they circled the field for final judging. Then fol-
lowed an evening of games, concessions, and fun.

Teen-agers requested and enjoyed a dance at 9 :30
with a “real orchestra.”

One of the important reasons for the success of
this first attempt was that young people were
brought in on the planning. Representatives from
each class in Junior and Senior High School met
with the committees. After hearing their sugges-
tions it was the responsibility of the adults to fol-
low through. The following article appeared in
the newspaper the next day:

The city police and sheriff’s oflice said today that
there were almost no reports of pr0perty damage due
to Halloween pranks, and attributed this to the Hal—
loween Festival.

Second Year

Another evidence of the success of the first fes-
tival was manifest by the fact that people made
plans immediately for 1945. As a result there was
no need for a selling job the second year. The
plan of organization was similar to I944.

There were a few changes in operation. The
parade began promptly at 6:00 as the stores were
closing so that people could go directly with the
parade to the stadium where all kinds of food
could be purchased. The general idea in the stadi—
um was that of a Pan American Carnival. All
concessions represented some Pan American coun-
try. Only recognized organizations were allowed
to compete. These included schools, church groups,
lodges, P.T.A’s., youth groups, civic clubs. Each
group paid $5 for its concession right.

The parade was typically Halloween in the
United States tradition. It was led by Uncle Sam,
followed by the Army, the Navy, and the Marines
carrying the colors. Then came the school band
and some 1,500 children in costume. There were

300 GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES!

witches and ghosts, gypsies and Mother Goose
characters and clowns and hoboes. The Drum and
Bugle Corps from the Roswell Army Air Field
was followed by floats. As a tie-up with the schools
the lioats represented children’s stories or verse
such as Bo-Peep, Cinderella, The Three Bears.
Peter, Peter, Pumpkin Eater, and many others.
As the parade entered the stadium, in a setting of
thatched houses, flags of all our neighboring coun-
tries flying, colorful costumes and concessions and
a peppy band, it presented a gorgeous spectacle
long to be remembered by Roswell youth. The
entire program stressed the spirit of friendliness
toward our South American neighbors.

During the evening free entertainment—music,
dancing, boxing—wwas "provided on a huge platform
erected in the center of field. There were, too,
relays and games as well as some free concessions,
so that money was not esssential for a good time.

Again the teen-agers had a dance sponsored by the
Senior High School P.T.A.

In 1944 Roswell had set up a Spanish Ameri-
can Teen-Age Club with 314 members. This group
entered a float in the parade and took part in the
carnival. Then they returned to their center where
they had a Halloween party and dance. It was
found that “spooks” and “apple :bobbing” were
new to most of this group.

Satisfied l

Needless to say Roswell is entirely sold on the
idea of a Halloween Fun Festival. It is a perfect
example of community cooperation and of the
value of volunteers. Teachers remarked that school
atmosphere on October 3-1 resembled the day be-
fore Christmas vacation. City officials reported
no destruction. Parents said that here was a place
where the whole family could enjoy the same en~
tertainment. A prominent citizen said, “I like it!
I learned a lot about various flags tonight! I saw
old men and women with their grandchildren hav-
ing a good time! I saw a child come out of a

 

Courtesy Recreation Department, Roswell, N. M ex.

RECREATION

 

GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES! 301

shabby little house, but with a mask—he was as
good as anyone for one night. We need more com-
unity recreation! Every: penny went to a good
cause.” °

TOOELE COUNTY JOINS THE GANG _

“Join the Gang! Make "Merry Without De—
struction l” is the Halloween byword for a whole
county in Utah. All over Tooele County children
and young people under 20 were organized-—
through their neighborhood schools—into appro—
priate age groups. Everywhere in the county
youngsters signed this pledge card.

I’M JOINING THE GANG
Tooele County, Utah

HALLOWEEN SEASON ’45

I agree not to destroy or deface property or do
anything to endanger life.

It is understood this ticket admits me to the Big
Halloween Affair arranged for my age group.

School . . . . . . . . . . .. Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Sponsored {by the Tooele County Recreational
Committee and Other Community Organizations

Flyers on gay yellow paper were distributed

about the county. They read
“Tooele County is Celebrating!

“We kids, all of us in the county, 6 to 20, are
‘Joining the Gang’ for lots of fun and merrynzak-
ing without destruction.

“Let’s put our county on the map by doing this
job right! '

“Membership tickets are available at every school
in the county. There is a ticket for each of us.
There is no charge and it is good for admittance
to the party and celebrations in our community
planned for our age groups. Those under 20 out
of school may get tickets from the nearest princi—
pals of the schools.

“The oldsters in our communities are furnishing
eats and prizes and helping us make merry. Let’s

one and all prove we can do our part.
“Signed, The ‘Kids’ of Tooele County”

Spooks and Magic

When The Night arrived there was a party in
every elementary .school in the county. They varied
somewhat. Perhaps the biggest of the affairs was
that held at the Tooele Junior and Senior High
School. Here an elaborate Tunnel of Horrors led
to an Inner Sanctum which challenged the imagi-
nation of the most skeptical.

The Tunnel was entered through the school’s
basement door. An “ocean—wave” slide precipi—
tated the youngsters through darkness and landed

SEPTEMBER 1946

them beside a rope, electrically charged in some
places, which guided them through a labyrinth of
spooky props—a rubber life boat, tin buckets and
cans, clammy wet rubber gloves, tickling strips
hanging from above, water dripping. It took an
hour and a quarter for all the gang to pass through
the Tunnel.

The Sanctum was divided into four “magics”—-
future, muscle, mind, chance. In classrooms bear-
ing these captions there were fortune telling, bingo,
guessing contests, darts, bean bag games, roulette.
In addition, a fine seven—piece orchestra played
for dancing.

The Tooele Lions Club furnished and served
doughnuts and cider—all the youngsters could eat
and drink. The Tooele merchants provided hun-
dreds of prizes-——value one cent to $5—for games
and door prizes, costume and grand prize.

Success ?

On every count the program was a success. And
that success was due to the cooperation of the
schools, churches, community recreation commit—
tee, civic organizations, newspapers, merchants,
individuals. By no means the smallest factorin the
success were the youngsters themselves—of all
ages. They entered into the spirit of the occasion
and really made a go of it.,

Of course, there were a few youngsters who
violated the code of their groups, but these were
exceptions. This whole affair has shown that
Halloween can be a joyous occasion in every com-
munity with plenty of thrills, adventures, mysteries
and spooks, without the undesirable features of the
season. Many hardly believed it possible that all
the annoyances of turning over buildings, tearing
off gates, and many other things which had
plagued the various communities in the past could
be almost completely eliminated. The day after
Halloween proved this to be true.

The program has definitely proven that where
the oldsters help plan the youngsters’ celebrations
instead of expecting them to forage the community
for opportunities of thrills and excitements that
the whole Halloween season can become an hon-
ored tradition of merrymaking, thrills and fun
without destruction.

LOS ANGELES LIGHTS A BONFIRE

Witches ride their broomsticks and cats walk
carefully on sheathed claws against a night whose
curtains have been pinned back—not by the stars
of the cowboy ballad but by giant bonfires.

302 GHOULIES AND GHOSTIES!

These are not ordinary bonfires, either. They
are reminiscent of the signal piles that stood along
the coast of England ready to warn the people
from John O’Groat’s to Land’s End should
Napoleon threaten invasion. For days before the
eve of All Saints’ Day the patrons of Los Angeles’
playgrounds busy themselves with preparations
for the fire. People of all ages bring fuel for its
flame—old boxes, unused railroad ties, scraps of
lumber and shavings, dried branches to the site.
“How high will the bon pile be?” each asks as he
adds his offering to the rest. By dusk on October
31 each fire pile is ready, waiting the signal for the
lighting. Waiting, too, is every conceivable kind
of noise-maker. They will be set a-sounding when
the flame is kindled. Their wielders, like all the
rest of the crowd that is assembling, are amazingly
costumed. Near at hand and on the alert for stray
sparks is a fire control squad. They are carefully
schooled in their duties, for these are tremendous
fires and must be kept under control.

By 7 o’clock everything is ready. A bell rings
out. Live fire is applied to dead fuel. The noise-
makers let loose with all the racket of Satan’s own
fiends. The flames at the bottom catch hold and
jump into the middle of the pile. The Halloween
program is under way.

One Program

The program varies in Los Angeles from play—
ground to playground. Here is one that is typical.

The fire was lighted at 7. At about 8:15 there
was a costume parade starting around the fire and
ending on a stage for costume judging. At 8:30
carnival games began. And at the same time a
vaudeville and ProfesSor Quiz program got started
on the platform.

The carnival games were erected in a row and
consisted of 12 games of skill. Several of them
were for children 8 years and under, and a ’few
were of the type that would interest boys over I7.
The others were for children up to 16 years of age.
When he had scored a certain number of points,
the contestant was given a ticket which was ex-
changed at the playground ofhce for a prize. The
prizes were carnival horns and other types of noise-
makers. Vaudeville numbers were presented by
members of the dancing and dramatics classes.
Contestants in the Professor Quiz program were
selected from the audience.

Side shows and a puppet shOw opened their
doors at 8:15. The side shows included “Monkey
Village” and “The House of Freaks.” At the

Monkey Village people entered—single file—a
room decorated with corn-stalks, crepe paper
pumpkins, and the like. It was dimly lit. At inter-
vals signs reading, “To the Monkey Village,”
were posted. As the people approached one cor—
ner of the room, they encountered a large mirror
with a large sign reading, “Here are the Mon—
keys.” The House of Freaks side show was ar-
ranged so that persons also entered in single file
and passed a large table covered with cigar boxes,
their contents having such items as a bunch of
bolts, nuts and screws with a sign reading, “An
Old Ford.” Another had a safety razor with a
sign reading, “For Men Only.” Other signs: “A
Barkless Dog”—a wiener, “For Ladies Only”—
hairpins, “Swimming Match”—a match hoating in
a cup of water, “Snake-eyes”—a pair of dice,
“Broken China”———a broken dish.

The puppet show was one of the busiest attrac-
tions of the evening. A seven—minute Halloween
mystery titled, The Halloween Performance, gave
eight performances and charged adults two pennies
admission, children one penny.

Nine o’clock was dance time. Interested par—
ticipants adjourned to the tennis courts where am-
plified recordings furnished the music for cheats
and other mixers.

By IO the bonfire had burned down to coals——
just right for baking wieners and potatoes and
toasting marshmallows. The dying embers were
the right background, too, for group singing before
the crowd broke up, moved off toward home “and
so to bed.”

PITTSFIELD GIVES A BLOCK DANCE

’Pittsiield, Massachusetts, rounded out an evening
of Halloween fun with a block dance. The eve-
ning got off to a first rate start with a parade.
Along the line of march 29 judges stood ready at
strategic places to decide on the best costumes. As
the clocks in all the steeples chimed 7 :30 the parade
got under way—right on the tick. There were
more than 1,000 youngsters marching between
sidewalks lined with 20,000 Pittsfield citizens
turned out to watch the fun. The paraders had a
'glorious time as they followed with shouts of glee

between a marshal splendidly arrayed in kilts and
tam-o’-shanter.

When the judges had handed down their de-
cision on the best costumes the crowds moved on
to a series of parties planned at different places for

(Continued on page 342)

RECREATION

*2

- group, arranging any nec-

' difficulties that may arise.

‘ Quarter and housed in an

‘ yard, once a picturesque

; rooms housed group activi-

 

Antidote
to Loneliness

By GLADYS MORRILL
New Orleansl Louisiana

the recreation rooms at the Cabrini Playground
in the historic old French Quarter of New Or-
leans you would find there a group of men and

IF, SOME WEDNESDAY afternoon, you should visit

women ranging in age from 55 to 90. They might '

be considering the works of Shakespeare or dis—
cussing the merits of the Irish potato as a pain-
killer for rheumatism or listening attentively to a
poem read or recited by one of their members.
They might be grouped around the piano singing
the songs by a by-gone day or enjoying refresh-
ments which they had prepared themselves—hot
coffee in cool weather or tall glasses of, lemonade
in summertime, tasty sandwiches and tea cakes. No
matter what pastime you found them engaged in
they would be interested and happy because this
group of elderly people have built their own little
social organization unhampered by rules and man-
agement. The group is sponsored by the Orleans
Neighborhood Centers and there is a leader pro-
vided by the agency, but
she acts more in the ca-
pacity of hostess for the

essary details and smooth- '
ing out any differences or

The Club is Opened

It started back in 1940
when the Orleans Neigh-
borhood Center (then sin-
gular in title) was located
in the heart of the French

old neglected mansion. The

patio, had become a play—
ground for the children of
the neighborhood and the
spacious high-ceilinged

ties. The Center’s Director

L' SEPTEMBER 1946

became interested in the old people of the neigh-
borhood. They wandered about aimlessly or they
sat forlornly on the steps of their homes or room-
ing houses. She felt a deep sympathy for these
men and women of a by-passed generation who
might reasonably expect 10 or more years of life
yet had neither work nor friends nor recreation to
fill their time. If they could know each other. she
thought, and perhaps meet together once a week to
talk over a cup of tea, the hours might seem less
monotonous and the days less empty. Here, she
decided, was a worthwhile project for the Orleans
Neighborhood Center.

Through personal contacts and by asking inter-
ested persons in the neighborhood to suggest
names the Director compiled a list of older people
to whom she sent cards inviting them to the Cen-
ter on a given date to discuss the formation of a
club. She was pleased when 14 of the-I6 invited
appeared on the day of the meeting.

As might be expected in an artistic section like
the French Quarter, the individuals were widely
different in background and temperament and ex-
tremely interesting. There were musicians, actors,
evangelists, school teachers, accountants and house-
wives. Most of these men and women had passed
their years of activity and were living on very
limited incomes, either with relatives or in crowded
rooming houses. They welcomed an opportunity to

' meet others of their generation.

(Continued on page 334)

 

Recreation on Welfare lsland

HE RECREATION PROGRAM for
Tthe 1,700 guests of the New
- York City Home is organized
and supervised by a Director of
Recreation. Its basic divisions are: active, where
the individual takes part by himself or in a group
in some form of recreation; and passive, where the
individual is a spectator of an activity performed
for him.

Planning for the program must take into con-
sideration the physical condition of the individual
and the level of his intelligence. The latter, in the
great majority of plans, presents no challenging
problem. The physical condition of the individual
is most important. Among the participants are the
ambulatory and the semi—ambulatory, those who
find it almost impossible to leave their bedsides,
those who need to use crutches or wheel chairs,
the sightless.

The Passive Program

Auditoriums. There is one large auditorium
which seats approximately 800 people. There is,
also, a day room for women which can seat about
300 guests of the Home. For the'ambulatory and
some of the semi-ambulatory and wheel—chair
patients these two auditoriums are the meeting
places for the spectator programs.

Central Radio. The Home has a central radio
system located in the large auditorium from which
regular radio programs are broadcast to all the
people in the wards as well as to those who might
be in the auditorium. By using this radio system
commercial stations can be tuned in or activities
emanating from the auditorium or from other
wards or from the park or from the Superintend—
ent’s office can be broadcast throughout the Home.
One of the guests, in charge of the radio, has been
taught to operate the system and he does so ac-
cording to a pre-arranged schedule based on a poll
taken among the guests.

Individual Ward Radios. Many of the wards are
also equipped with individual radios so that pro-
grams of the patients’ own choosing may be tuned
in if they so desire and the central system tuned
out. The people in the wards for the blind are

-especially apt to prefer programs of their own
choosing.

304

By MAXWELL LEWIS
Superintendent

Welfare Island' New York

Talking Books. For the sightless
and the bed-ridden, talking books
borrowed from the Public Library
are played on machines also lent us.

Motion Pictures for Ambulatory and Bed-Ridden
or Shut-ins. For those who are ambulatory or semi-
ambulatory and can make their way to the large
auditorium,motion pictures (top Broadway features
only) are shown twice weekly during the months
from September to April. For those who are con-
fmed to their wards the Recreation Director is
trained to use our own 16 mm. projector and to
give in each ward each week an hour movie pro-

gram.

Plays. Musicals. Vaudeville. Concerts. The facili—
ties of the large auditorium permit the showing of
plays, musicals, vaudeville acts, and the like. V01—
unteer groups of professionals and semi-profes-
sionals are always glad to cooperate. . It is possible
to present these activities at least once a week.
Those who are confined to their wards can get
these programs through the institutional radio
system. Musical prOgrams, variety acts, and kiddie
shows are most popular.

Band Concerts. During the summer months the
bands from the various uniformed city services
conduct outdoor concerts at least once each week.
These programs are sent through the wards over
the institutional radio system.

Boxing Matches. The. Police Athletic League has
been very cooperative and has brought all the nec-
essary equipment for boxing ——-- including boxing
ring, and young amateur fighters—to the Home.
The men enjoy this type of program immensely.

Recorded Music and Home News. The radio
system is regularly used to. broadcast music pro-
grams arranged by the Recreation Director. We
have accumulated a music library of our own. One
of the guests has been trained to gather news of
the Home and to broadcast interesting local items
over the radio.

Stories. From time to time volunteers go to the
various‘wards occupied by the inflrm and gather a
group to whom stories are read.

General Features of Spectator Activities. At the

' spectator events we try, as much as possible, to

give those who attend some form of refreshment.

RECREATION

7i

 

RECREATION ON WELFARE ISLAND 305

At the band concerts it may be soda-pop or ice
cream; at the boxing bouts, tobacco for the men;
at the plays or shows, candy; at the moving pic—
tures in the wards, candy or ice cream or cake.

The Active Program

Individual Games (Indoor). The people may en-
‘ joy games of checkers, chess, dominoes, whist or
other card games. A section of the large audi-
torium is set aside during the day as a play room.

Individual Games (Outdoor). During‘favorable
weather outdoor games like_quoits and shufHe-
board are played by the men. These individual
games and competitions are arranged by the Rec—
reation Director who'gives prizes at the end of
each week to the winners of the various tourna—
ments.

Holiday Parties. Holidays, such as Thanksgiv—
ing, Christmas, Halloween, St. Patrick’s ‘Day,
Easter are always celebrated by mass activities in
which many participate. The celebration may take
the form of a dance or a party. Games of appro_—
priate nature are always played on these occasions
and always there are prizes to the winners and
refreshments for everybddy.

Orchestra. The Home boasts a fairly good or—
chestra made up of its guests. This orchestra plays
at all dances and parties and visits at leastone
ward each day. The orchestra is under the direc—
tion of a paid leader. The members wear a dis—
tinctive uniform. on party occasions and dress up
appr0priately at gala affairs. Decorations in keep-
ing with the occasion always play an important
part in planning for recreation.

Weekly Dances. Dances are held weekly in the
day room and serve as a valuable asset in the
social life of the Home.

Community Singing. Wherever the orchestra
visits, the leader always arranges a program of
community singing. The old songs are prominent
on the program. If it happens that one of the
guests in the ward has a birthday, there is usually
a birthday cake and singing.

Amateur Shows. The orchestra leader has been
successful from time to time in getting the old
people to give amateur shows and musicals. These
shows and musicals are great events in the lives
of those who make up the cast. Home talent is
usually well-received. The costumes are designed
and made in the Home and, of course, the orches—
tra plays the music.

Summer Program — Bus Rides. The summer

SEPTEMBER 1946

months offer a real challenge for a recreation pro—
gram. Bus rides are usually arranged to take the
old people to various nearby parks. We try,
always, to take semi-ambulatory patients on these
rides; A nurse, a doctor and other attendants go
along. Milk, sandwiches, fruit and candy are im—
portant parts of the trip. Often the orchestra goes
on the trip.

Picnics. Picnics are held at the nearby parks.
The orchestra plays. and there are games and
stories. These rides and picnics are eagerly sought
after.

Boat Rides. The bus rides are combined, some—
times, with boat rides up the Hudson or to Coney
Island or the Rockaways. Every effort is made to
take the wheel-chair and semi-ambulatory patients.
Often arrangements are made with city authorities
to have one of the city boats pull up to a dock on
the Island. On these occasions we take many of
the shut-ins. Here, too, nurses, attendants, a
doctor and the orchestra accompany the people.

Outings on the Island. Occasionally a group is
collected and an outing is arranged on the Island.
The group will go off by itself under leadership,

_play games, sing, take along food and have a gen-

eral good time.

Ball Games. The various baseball clubs in New
York have, on request, cooperated by furnishing us
with tickets for ball games. Many of the men take
advantage of this generosity. They are sent to
games by bus accompanied by the necessary at-
tendants.

Museums. Some of the people ask to be taken to
the museums. There aren’t very many who can
indulge in this activity but for those who wish,
arrangements for proper attendant care is 'made.

Library. There are two 'libraries and a visiting
library in the Home. For those who want to spend
their leisure time reading there are books, maga-
zines and newspapers in many languages.

Recreation Programs by Churches. The various
churches, Catholic, Jewish, Protestant very fre—
quently supplement the general recreation pro-
gram with celebrations of their own. Each of the
churches has an auditorium where programs can
be given. These supplementary recreation pro-
grams are welcome. Here, too, refreshments are
a part of the day’s activities.

In general the recreation program in the New
York City Home is designed to make it possible

' for everyrindividual in the HOllle to enjoy his

leisure time in such manner as he chooses for
himself.

They Took

By JOAN RANKIN
Moscow, Idaho

WELVE CHURCHES in the Pacific Northwest

have attacked the problem of adequate recrea-

tion facilities for college age young people.
They have set up a program to develop a 36-acre
camp and playground, high on the slope of one ‘of
the mountains of northern Idaho. -

Situated in adjacent border counties of Idaho
and eastern Washington there are three institu-
ions of higher education—the University of Idaho
in Moscow, the State College of Washington in
Pullman and the North Idaho Teachers’ College in
Lewiston. With an aggregate postwar enrollment
of about 10,000 students expected on théSe three
campuses, the Christian churches of Latah and
Nezperce counties,-' Idaho; and Clarkston and
Whitman counties, Washington; recognized the

need for an appropriate recreation center for col— ..

legians’ week ends and holidays.

To help take care of the situation they acquired
Sun-Crest, a primitive area of wooded ridges and
ravines—ideal for skiing, toboggan slides and a
large log cabin chalet, called Sun-Crest Lodge
capable of sheltering as many as 40 people. All
last winter, church. leaders in the four counties
went over details of finance and construction, and
early in the spring of 1946 when the roads were
open for builders the first ground was broken on
the mountain. .

The planners are fortunate in having this area
of breath-taking beauty, with an exceptional view
of the Palouse farming country south and west,
the Snake and Clearwater canyons and the Blue

Mountains. From the ridge, the slope is to the

north, with a small stream and all-year spring in
the flat of the north part of the area. The region
varies from open country to heavy timber, includ-
ing proper material for long structures. A hun-
dred yard drive from Sun-Crest to the country
road, provides access at all times.

The minister of Moscow’s First Christian
Church is one of the originators of the idea, and
acting director of Sun-Crest. He says, “The Ameri-
can people are looking to the lakes, rivers, and hills
for health, recreation, and education. Educators
have discovered that there are other techniques

306

to the Hills

than the school room, valuable in character build—
ing and citizenship. The church recognizes this
trend by using camps, conferences, sponsored rec-
reation, and outdoor worship as tools of Christian
education.”

Activities

Winter activities, so far have highlighted the
program. All this past winter, not a Sunday has
gone by without the shouts of people at play.ring-
ing down the snow-covered slopes and ravines of
Sun-Crest. Moscow Mountain has long been a
favored spot for skiers. Until recently Washing-
ton State College’s Y.M.C.A. has maintained a ski
run and lodge on the property, higher on the
mountain than Sun-Crest. Its only drawback was
its“ inaccessibility. Sun-Crest, which is accessible
at any time of the year, has skiing conditions which
are excellent. The University of Idaho maintains
a lodge on an adjoining mountain also, as skiing is
fast becoming one of the most popular winter
sports among the college students of the Pacific
Northwest. Skiing has been so popular as student
recreation, that the Moscow Christian Church has
felt justified in purchasing six pairs of skis for
the use of the students, or of people in the other
age groups of the church.

There will be no room for the faint-hearted on
the toboggan run as it winds its way down the
steep hillsnwith corners banked to preserve speed
for the 1,000 feet of its length. Going down one
side hill you will gain much speed, and then the
run will take you up another until you are stopped
again. Truly, it will be keyed for thrills.

In addition to completing the ski and toboggan
runs, the Sun—Crest builders hope to finish a good
road, before the fall snows, which will make the
lodge accessible throughout the year.

At any time of the year through the timber you
can see deer, an occasional bear, and many other
wild animals. There are many different kinds of
timber—fir, ponderosa pine, tamarack, cedar.

The winter activities are not alone in presenting
the attractive side of Sun-Crest, however. When
the summer sun is beating with fury on the hot
August streets, five miles to Moscow Mountain

(Continued on page 339)

RECREATION

 

- Play for the Pre-School Child

ROM THE YOUNG CHILD’S point of view, play is
F the most important element in his day and

makes life worth living. So spontaneously
creative are children that indoors and out, at all
seasons, with other children or alone, the growing
child will play. But his play can be thwarted by an
unsympathetic adult, by ill health or undernour-
ishment, or it can be arrested by the poverty of his.
'environment. Fortunately, most adults “let” chil-
dren play, especially children under six. If the
children are not given toys, they will play with
rags, stones, sticks, clothespins, or anything else
available. They impersonate, dramatize, recnact,
and enlarge upon any information, however

meager.

Play, Work, and Adventure for '
Young Children

Yet play is not simply play. Through it children
are unconsciously learning to adapt to life and to
take an active part in it. They dramatize human
relations, they discover how to get along with
others, they learn about themselves, they develop
a control over inanimate objects. In play they set
their own standards and measure themselves with
their own yardsticks of success. Like ivy on a
brick wall, they put out their own shoots and ten-
tatively select their own directions of growth.

In order that play may be happy and fruitful,
children need sunshine, fresh air, space, cleanli—
ness, and'materials which they can adapt to their
own purposes. If a child is an integral part of his
family and of the community in which he lives, his
play will refiect growth and new horizons. As he
grows, he will play for longer periods, in a more
complicated setting, and with larger numbers of
children contributing to his plans. He will learn
to take turns and share things; above all, he will
learn to exchange ideas. He will act his age in
order to hold the respect of his playmates. He will
make individual decisions and participate in those
of his group. In his own small way, through taking
care of himself and respecting others, he will be
helping democracy to succeed.

Even during the years from three to six a child
will have some experience in chores. There will
be the putting away of playthings, the taking care
of his own clothes, perhaps some brushing up of
sand spilled or the filling in of a hole dug, the

SEPTEMBER 1946

regular care of a well-loved pet, and the chance to
help 'an older person now and then. In carrying
out such little duties children learn respect for the
work of other people, for the needs of animals, and
for the conservation of valuable objects.
Adventure, as well as play and work, is a neces-
sary part of a child’s life, and time for it should be
provided. A trip to the store, a walk around the
block, watching the plumber repair a fixture, a
word with the traffic policeman at the corner, an
afternoon in the park—any of these may constitute
adventure. Such adventures will help children to
become better acquainted with the world, to dis—
cover their own limitations and potentialities.
Play, work, and adventure of young children
require oversight on the part of an adult. No
child five or under can be expected to meet ade-
quately all the contingencies of the environment or
direct all the impulses that surge up within him.
Herein lies an opportunity. Through sympathetic
and understanding guidance, adults will find count-
less openings for interpreting the world to a child.

Play Groups Under Leadership

Play is a major educative force in the lives of
young children. Some public schools have been
bringingtogether children of two to six years of
age for the purpose of supervised play. These chil-
dren assemble in groups at regular intervals once,
twice, or three times a week under the guidance of
a qualified nursery school teacher. If mothers are
trained, and each mother takes her turn as leader
of a group of children, a trained professional
worker in nursery education can supervise a num-
ber of such play groups. This last arrangement
has been found economical, and it promotes val-
uable experience for the mothers.

The children have the advantages of both indi-

-vidual and group play. The public schools provide

trained guidance and an appr0priate environment
with space, equipment and healthful surroundings.
The parents enjoy the advantages of participation
and observe how their child works and plays with
his peers, what he regards as satisfactions and as
obstacles and what progress he is making in the
use of language, materials and equipment.

The young people of the secondary school, espe-
cially students in the social studies and homemak-

(Continued on page 340)

307

"Letters to the World

BATTLE CREEK _
MICHIGAN

O

DEAR CHIEF: _
HEN YOU ASKED ME to take over at the Youth
Building the other day while you attended
the Michigan Recreation Association meet-

ing, I was inclined to feel a bit put out because I

had planned such a busy outdoor program for that

day. But the mountainous pleasures which were
my lot in playing host to your family of recreation-
minded men, women and children compensated me

a hundredfold -for any inconveniences which I at

first felt the assignment might cause me.

So, the laugh’s on you! And, before I forget it,
whenever you are called away again, don’t forget
me—it’s a pleasure to carry on where there’s so
much doing and where you feel you are having
some little part in contributing so much to the
happiness, pleasure and contentment of so many.

What a family of recreation people you have at
the Youth Building, too! Actually, there were
more than a thousand of ’em, from starting to
closing bells. We’d have had more, too, but there
are certain limitations within the four walls of a
building——even one so large and splendidly ap-
pointed as yours.

Hardly had I reached the building at 6:45 that
morning before a couple of youngsters came plod-
ding through the doorway.

“Hey, mister,” says the freckled-faced, red-
haired eldest of the two, “me and my buddy, here,
we wants to ‘recreate.’ Whaja got?” And from
that moment until your building custodian said
something about past closing time as the clock
stroked II :30 that night, I had as busy, as merry
and as plentiful a day as I ever hope to see, even
if I remain in recreation work another century.

Actually, it was a never-ending whirligig of fun
and excitement, what with trying to keep pace
with those boys, girls, fathers, mothers and “even
the “grandpappies” and the “grandmammies” who
converged upon the center in a seemingly endless
procession.

I wondered for a time how you could ever fit
so many different age groups, so many diversified
ideas, such cosmopolitan gatherings into a closely
knit, smooth-functioning program serving all of
their wanted activities. Your daily building chart
solved that problem for me at a glance. I know

308

that chart didn’t just grow, that it evolved from
years of experience and from a careful, tireless
study of community needs and wants and from an
honest, sincere effort to weave them into a 16 or
17 hour day, but I wonder if you ever have ana-
lyzed the results that are being attained.

Such an analysis, it seems to me, would be of

- immeasurable value to communities everywhere in

their efforts to solve recreation problems — and
when. I say recreation problems, I mean recreation
in all of its sundry and manifold applications.

School and Recreation

I was astounded at the number of five, six, seven
and eight-year-old boys and girls who came in for
early morning play on the way to school. As they '
left, older groups, boys of junior and senior high
school age came flocking in, actually hundreds of
them. They seemed to be particularly interested
in swimming, general gymnasium activities and
table tennis, though not a few spent their leisure
time in the craft shop, in the music rooms, or in
one of the lounges pouring over books and making
ready for succeeding classes.

It was half way through the morning before I
learned that these student visitations were a part
of the regular school curriculum—a fusion of
school-recreation functions working to the mutual
benefit of all and attaining a maximum usage of
facilities which might otherwise be idle and value-
less. Here, it appeared, was a realistic, beneficial
application of ideas and principles which have
evolved from our World War II experiences and
which have resulted in the current national clamor
for physical education programs on a basis of
mass participation—programs for all rather than
merely for the chosen few.

There was still further evidence of this postwar
trend as the day wore on and group followed
group in a procession that worked with clock-like
precision for the utilization of your facilities.

Pause in the Day’s Occupations

Came the school lunch hour and groups of busi- '
ness men and women made their appearances._
They played volleyball and badminton, enjoyed
short swims. An impromptu basketball game de-
veloped in one group and another group set itself I
apart for light calisthenics. Others played table

RECREATION

LETTERS TO THE WORLD ' ' I . 309

tennis. A few games of chess were in progress.
Still others of these adults took themselves into
the craft shop. to fashion little gadgets for home
or office. . -

The machine smoothness of‘ these operations,
Chief, was a source of wonder to me. The thought
struck home that no such degree of perfection and
frictionless movement ever is attained without
countless hours of study and application in the
building of a program which seemingly carries of
its own weight and its own volition with a mini-
mum of direction and supervision. Certainly, be-
hind all this there must have been months and
years of planning, of scheming, of detail-perfecting.

As the one o’clock whistle sounded, the adult
groups vanished as if by magic and in their stead
c a m e o t h e r
groups of stu-
dents — boys
and girls who
devoted them-
selves to the
multiplicity of
l activities which
you have pro-
vided. ,

_ Every student
; seemed to have
- in mind a well-
planned routine
which, observa-
tion disclosed.
was in keeping
with the things
that boy or girl
needed most in
» the upbuilding of his or her body. There was never
a program too strenuous for the frail students,
never a routine too limited to result in time-wast-
ing. Yet there never was conflict, never over—
crowding in any recreation activity or pursuit. The
students moved from one event to another as if

they had been trained and drilled for months—yet
 there were no given signals, no spoken words to
1 indicate that the time had arrived for the ending of
I one activity and the start of another.

Workers Take a Hand

Promptly at 3:30 P. M. the last of the students

left the building and in their stead came grimy—
‘ faced men and women from Battle Creek’s indus-

- trial plants. They showered or swam, engaged in
, gymnasium games or played table tennis or just

 

f SEPTEMBER 1946

 

Arts and crafts at the Youth Building

lolled about in the lounge rooms listening to the
radio or the phonograph. A few segregated them-
selves for a little impromptu dancing while one of
their number played the piano. Some retired to
the reading and writing rooms, while others played
such small games as chess, checkers, Chinese
checkers,and the like. There was no wasted energy,
no wasted or idle facility and that, again, brought
astonishment. Through this two-hour program,
there was the same smoothness of operation, the
same frictionless activity that had marked other
participations through the day. '

After the industrialists came more groups of
business and professional men, entering into the
spirit of recreation with all the eagerness of youth
-——and apparently with as much vigor. The more
' rugged and
younger group
played basket-
ball, a middle—
aged group took
to badminton
and volleyball
and some of the
older ones
played table
tennis or did
light calisthen-
ics. And as a
grand linale all,
it seemed, en-
joyed a shower
and a plunge.

It was sup-
per (or dinner)
h o u r n o w,
Chief, and a reSpite from the busy preceding hours
would surely be my lot, I thought. But not for long.
Barely seconds later there descended upon us a
building full of teen-age girls. Why, the way they
came streaming in, I thought some one must have
passed the word that we had a barrel of bubble
gum for distribution, or maybe, a couple hundred
dozen of nylon stockings! Hardly had they disap-
peared into their dressing-shower quarters in an-
ticipation of an evening plunge before their male
counterparts took over—and there were more than
200 of them by actual count.

. Your eight o’clock curfew for these younger
boys and girls is a swell idea, Chief. Not only does
it insure early arrival home for these young folk,
but it clears the way for the adult programs which
follow. That adult mixed swimming period is just

310 .

about tops in the way of invigorating recreation
for these older people, too.

For the Disabled

And those chess instruction periods for the
wounded war veterans from your nearby Percy
Jones General Hospital! What a wonderful con-
tribution that program is, Chief, not alone in pro-
viding recreation hours and diversions for these
lonesome, social-hungry men to. whom we owe so
much, but as a very definite and material contribu-
tion'in helping 'them to overcome the shyness and
timidity which weeks 'and months of isolation and
confinement have bred in them.

It was particularly gratifying, too, to note how
readily the citizen players of the community wel-
comed these veterans into their social activities,
accepting their war-created deformities in such a
matter-of-fact manner, and never a notice or men-
tion, nor even a second look, at the armless or leg-
less boys, or the boys whose features have been
torn or shattered by shell or burn. Here, truly,
was glorified recreation in all of its ramifications,
extending far “above and beyond” the call of duty.
Somewhere, sometime, Chief, there’s going to be
a merit ribbon for those citizens who are con-
tributing so much to the rehabilitation of these
wounded veterans in the routine of normal living.

That idea of a dance for the adult groups each _

Saturday night certainly has hit a responsive chord
here, if the attendance ,last Saturday night is any
criterion. I also understand you have set one night
aside each week for a high school dance which at-
tracts upwards of 300 boys and girls of high school
age. And such attendance certainly 'proves the
popularity of that event.

” Never, Chief, did I have any appreciation of
what it might be like inside a beehive at honey-
making time until I had this one day at the Youth
Building. And if you thought I might have felt a
bit aggrieved at being summoned for this one-day
stand, the laugh’s on you. It was jolly well bully,
old fellow, and I’m hoping you’ll be called away
again—and soon. And when that beckon comes,
don’t forget your old pinch-hitter.

Yours in recreation,
RALPH.

TACOMA

DEAR BETTY : WASHINGTON

IT HAS BEEN A LONG TIME since you’ve heard from
this part of the country. If the truth be known
it isn’t because we haven’t been thinking of you

LETTERS TO THE WORLD

and wondering how some of your square-peg-in-
round-hole problem children are making out.
You’re really up against a situation, and probably
it’s too late in the‘season to start a revolution of

-activity, even a minor one. Anyhow, I want to

give you just an idea or two of how we worked out
one problem here in Tacoma, Washington, this-
winter—which, in your more serious moments this
summer, you might ponder over and then see how
the powers that he would like to make a few in-
novations for your next school season.

Cooperation

We’ve been doing a combination job for both
adults and teen-agers. And it is the teen-age group
in which.you are most interested. We’ve really
had good success in our attempt, and the goose
hangs high'for all'the many. additions we hope to
make next season. Our Recreation Commission
comes under the authorities of the local Park and
School Districts. So it hasbeen a case of working'
cooperatively and also independently, and, besides
planning various programs for paticipants, getting
acquainted with the school principals. We have
two recreation buildings built by the Park District
in the city, so in order to have a well functioning
program——and one which reaches all sections—we
are at the present time using basements and gym-
nasiums in the schools for evening recreation
activities.

It.’ 5 really wonderfully encouraging how well the
principals, teachers, P.T.A. members in different
neighborhoods will cooperate with .a clearly or-
ganized and well-planned program for the young-
sters. While‘we have a long way to go to get all
the equipment we need and iron out such problems
as low ceilings in basements, the programs for the
most part have been enthusiastically received, and
the attendance has grown from' month to month.

No use right now giving you 'a total picture of
all the centers (drop-in centers we call them), but
I do want you,to know about one place in particu—
lar—a junioi: high school teen-age center, about
the type of recreation which is offered, and the
grand cooperation we receive. '

The school itself is located in a thickly populated '2
district. There are some itinerant families, but for *
the most part the people are permanent, “middle
class” residents and home owners. Most everyone
is recreation and athletic-minded, but the types of
recreation Which have been available consist of a
movie or two, a public bowling alley, an ice cream
counter where anyone and everyone can congre-

RECREATION

LETTERS TO THE WORLD 311

gate. Such an atmosphere isn’t always the best for
the growing teen-ager.

Some members of the neighborhood P.T.A., the
principal of the junior high school and the super-
intendent of the Recreation Commission all agreed
that the school would make an ideal spot for a
teen-age drop-in center. They had, then, to decide
how many nights a week the center should be
open, what age youngsters it would serve, and
what sort of activities could be offered with a
minimum of equipment.

Facilities and Personnel

The physical facilities of the building were good.
A large gymnasium With dividing doors (used in
the day time for both boys and girls at the same
time) was one asset. A huge basement room, also
in two sections, could be used. Some equipment
was obtainable from the Park and School Districts.
Available were such items as ping-pong tables,
shufHeboard cues and discs, basketballs, volley
balls, and—best of all—a loud speaker and ampli-
fier which belongs to the Park District and which
could be lent for the winter season to the School
District. Incidentally, Betty, music is something
that everyone wants and really needs. Won’t it be
wonderful when budgets are large enough and the
supplies of radio and recording machines are again
on the market?

Which makes me digress for a minute from my
story. One of the other centers wanted music badly
but lacked the necessary equipment. Nothing
daunted, the men in that neighborhood got to-
gether, found old parts of a radio and victrola and
made their own cabinet and music producer for
their teen-agers. And it works beautifully, too!

But to get back to the main point. We felt cer-
tain that there would be a good attendance from
the start, and in order to keep some activity going
in all the four rooms, four leaders really were
needed. Two men were chosen—one as director of
the entire center—and two women. All of these
people had experience one way or another in rec-
reation work and in dealing with adolescents and
their problems. The two men teach school during
the day, and are both well liked by their students.
The director is a Ene organizer and leader, popu-
lar, and the boys and girls were thrilled that he
was to be their director.

The principal felt that one night a week was
enough to have the center open, because of school
activities, study, and family requests. Wednesday
evening was chosen. The days are short in the

SEPTEMBER 1946

winter, and We chose the hours of 6 :30 to 9 :30 P.M.

Officers—a president, sergeant-at-arms, treas-
urer and door checker—were chosen from the boys
and girls themselves. Everybody who took part in
the. activities signed a card with his or her name,
address, school attended, parents’ names and
hobby. Then each in turn was given a membership
card. This card is presented each time a youngster
signs up at the door entrance. The cards are then
used as a deposit on ping-pong balls and paddles,
shuffleboard cues and other equipment. Attend-
ance checkers take turns registering and keeping a
record in the attendance book. This helps us keep
a city-wide attendance record.

Program

Basketball, volleyball, captain ball, are all played
at different times in one section of the divided
gym. On the other side the recording machine and
loud speaker are used for dancing, conga lines, and
musical games. In the basement rooms five tables
are in constant use for ping-pong and a shuf-
fleboard diagram has been painted on the floor for
those Who would like that game. There is never a
dull moment, and everyone who comes into the
building is busy and happy, sorry when 9:30 ar- '
rives and it is time to leave.

About half-way through the evening an inter-

. mission period is held. The previous week it has

been decided which three or four of the teen-agers
would like to help put on a stunt or two. This
might be singing, playing the piano or other musi-
cal instrument, a special dance number, or what-
ever demonstration of talent is available. Every-
one gathers around in a big circle—and the ap-
plause for one of their own members is really
something to hear. One night a little fellow, about
I4 years old (junior high youngsters are admitted
to this center from anywhere and everywhere in
the community) played a squeeze box with all the
assurance and ability of one many years his senior.
One time an impromptu skit on “The Shooting of
Dan McGrew” was presented. All the spare
kitchen aprons, lumberjackets, and moth-eaten
animal hides available in the community were bor-
rowed and used. The “props” were stupendous,
and almost out of this world. After the “Show”
everyone troops to the basement rooms where soda
pop and cokes are sold for a nickel. The young-
sters manage the sale of these and the small profit
which is made is used to buy new records for the
recording machine.

(Continued on page 334)

What They Say About Recreation

ll VERYONE MUST BE A CHAMPION in something.
Each person must have a personal skill
through which he can secure deference from

his fellowmen. Arts and hobbies are indispensable

in modern life.”—Dr. T. V. Smith.

“The highest enjoyments of life must be open
to the worker, to the middle class, to all in com-

“ mon. Beauty and the arts must not be restricted to ‘

the few; they are the property of the whole.”—
Ednard Lindeman.

“Some one has said that there is enough dyna-
mite in The Sermon on the Mount to blow up
everything that interferes with fullness of life for

all.”

“You don’t pick up a hobby merely to cudgel
some skulking waywardness. You develop inter-
ests, discover talents, improve skills because that’s

the way you grow and- acquire zest in living.”—
G. Ott Romney in Oijr the Job Living.

“Music speaks to humanity of the things they
have in common, not of the theories or ambitions
or ideas on; which they disagree.”—Leopold Sto—
ko'wski.

“With the advent of more leisure for all will
come the necessity of mastering the finer art of
intelligent loafing, for it is not desirable that all
leisure be spent in activity. Loafing, resting and
meditation have a place in life not usually given
them by the modern.”—Frank H. Cheley.

“The experiences that linger in the memory are
those enjoyed through one’s own efforts — the
seeking through the woods, the exploring of trails,
even the thought of something beyond the ranges.
Take the imagination out of life and treasures be—

come commonplace.”—-—Olans I. M nrie in National
Parks.

“1 think the spirit back ’of it all should be the
spirit of the Puritans. They didn’t succeed along
the road they chose, but they were right in their
main idea, which was that it was the business of

the State to make of this world a place in which
the soul of man can live.”—Joseph Lee.

312

“A danceless country like ours quite often for-
gets to remember that the art of dance is not just
an instrument of amusement. In human society
the dance flourishes best in its fluidity, force and
purity when man is vibrantly virile. The majestic
prowess of dance is most evident in the country
where the wealth of the vigor of manhood is in—
ordinately abundant.”——-Rabindranath Tagore.

“Even the most devoted fisherman is not a fish-

-. erman only; part of his recreation lies in enjoyment

of his environment.”—From Park, Parkway and
Recreational Area Plan, Wisconsin.

“Is leisure valuable? Should the school feel
justified in cultivating a taste and a technique for
leisure? Surely. We are ready now to take the
curse out of labor. But we must first make sure
to take the poison out of idleness.”—Angelo.Patri.

“Most things worth having cost something, and
a lot of what they cost is work. So of happiness. so
of peace.”—Willa Roberts.

“It is the business of those concerned with rec-
reation to assemble from the ends of the earth
every cultural tradition of excellence, every capac-
ity for research in developing sources of creative
design, and to create for the great and growing
field of recreation recognized educational leader-

ship comparable to that in any other educational
field.”—Arthur E. Morgan.

“Students should be trained in sports so that
they may continue after college. . . . They should
also be trained in the fine arts as-a definite use of
leisure.”—Winslow S. Anderson.

“How to develop fruitfully one’s leisure time . . .
how to develop the arts; how to get the most out
of life. These are the real problems of a civilized
people who have yoked a billion of mechanical
horse p0wer.”—Stuart Chase.

Hail, guest, we ask not what thou art,
If friend, we greet thee, hand and heart,
If stranger, such no longer be,
If foe, our love shall conquer thee.
D —Welsh rhyme.

RECREATION

\E

5 Recreation Versus Juvenile Delinquency

new level in the total num-

ber of crimes Committed over
the nation. Statistics show a
12.4 percent increase over 1944
figures—the greatest increase in the past 15 years.
F .B.I. Chief, J. Edgar Hoover, reports that of
these new crimes the most alarming ones were
committed by juvenile delinquents. Since 1939
arrests of teen-age girls under 18 have increased
198 percent. The total increase in juvenile delin-
quency is over 100 percent.

This appalling picture of our modern youth
should be a serious challenge to teachers and rec—
reation workers because recreation in all of its
aspects can do much toward curbing this increase
in juvenile delinquency. It will be necessary, how-
ever, to use a more realistic approach to this prob-
lem than in the past, and to plan 'programs
thoughtfully in conjunction with other agencies—
the school, the church, and the home.

Several important factors must be stressed. The
- attention of these agencies must be focussed on the
need for more money for recreation facilities and
workers, keeping in mind that no matter how great
the cost of prevention it is cheaper than the cure.
There must be developed a. closer coordination
between in—school and after-school recreation pro—
grams. There must be an optimum use of existing
facilities and better planning to develop facilities
that may be used to the fullest extent by the school
in the daytime and, with few additions, for recrea-
tion after school. '

Where money is to be appr0priated for recrea-
tion programs and facilities the recreation person-
nel who have had the training and know the needs
should be allowed to ask for what they need with-
out having estimates slashed because the taxpayers
say “it is too much.” The important factor should
be recognition of the job to be done and done well.
The cost should be computed in terms of dollars
spent in relation to the effectiveness of the com-
pleted program, using the participation of young
people in the activities as the yardstick..

THE YEAR OF 1945 has seen a
l

Let’s Be Realistic

In the past physical education programs have
been developed in various school systems that

SEPTEMBER 1946

By WENDALL A. 'PARRIS
 President
Health. Physical Education and
Recreation Association

emphasize game programs, but
' often no effort has been made to

find out the type of programs

being planned to provide for the

individual’s recreation needs. It
is evident, therefore, that a meaningfulness is lost.
Young people have a definite tendency to play
those games and participate in those activities with
which they are most familiar. To prove this ask
any boy on any playground if he likes swimming,
football, badminton, tennis, softball, and invari-
ably his likes and dislikes will be contingent on his
degree of skill and knowledge of the various ac-
tivities. Ask a girl if she likes to sing, dance,
crotchet, weave baskets, play tennis, play hop-
scotch, and you will find she likes those activities
in which she has attained the greater degree of
skill or with which she is most familiar.

If this is true why not have plans for school ac-
tivities drawn upon a more realistic manner than
in the past? If the recreation program must of
necessity fail to include certain activities because
of limited space, lack of money, lack of personnel,
the teaching program should be adjusted to teach
first for use in the community. If a school has a
small yard, little money and few workers, it would
be sensible not to teach too much football or base-
ball, but to substitute handball, volleyball, roller
skating, shufiieboard, deck tennis, rope jumping,
badminton and table tennis. Forget about games
such as softball, football, soccer which need more
space and equipment. How many times have you
seen a_class in soccer or football 'or speedball that
will reach an interest through knowledge but will

.not, after school, be able to put that knowledge

into practice because there’s nobody available for
a game or because of lack of space? Let us start
planning our programs for young pe0ple rather
than for supervisors, principals and taxpayers
whom we have too often been trying to impress.

Better Planning

How can we get the optimum use of existing
facilities through better planning? Dr. Bookwalter
of Indiana, Dr. Streit of Michigan, and Milo
Christianson of the District of Columbia Recrea—
tion Department, speaking at the planning sessions

( Continued on page 341)

313

   

School Forests

working together in Wisconsin

to grow trees for tomorrow.
Wisconsin’s school forests are part
of this long~time program.

A school forest is defined as a
tract of land, twenty acres or more,
owned by school districts and oper-
.ated by school boards as an outdoor
laboratory to demonstrate practical
forestry and to deve10p appreciation
of trees and nature. Primarily the
purpose is to give students a broad

INDUSTRY AND GOVERNMENT are

Print by Gedge Harmon

in Wisconsin

their responsibility and the result of
their own thinking and efforts. They
learn by doing. In a ceremony con- .
cluding the planting, students take
a covenant that reminds them of
their obligations.

The school forest is an important
factor in the recreational life of the
school. At least once a year the
entire student body holds a field day
in the school forest, planting seed-
lings or doing other necessary work.

Civic groups may choose to give

understanding of the out-of-doors,
its wildlife, its beauty, its recrea-
tional and economic values.

In Wisconsin, school forests
are acquired both by gift and by
purchase. In 1928 the state legis—

She canI to be sure. acquire
information about nature lore

from her textbook, but if the

school board of her community

owns a forest she will be able
to supplement her theoretical
knowledge with activity in a
fascinating outdoor laboratory

incentive to the work. In the
Wisconsin River Valley, for ex-
ample, a group of paper mills
known as “Trees for Tomorrow
Inc.” offers tive $500 scholarships
for students of forestry. When-

lature passed a law permitting
school districts to spend money to
buy lands for such purposes. In many instances
counties and town boards have given tax delin-
quent lands to school districts that have given
evidence of their intention to use such lands for
forestry and nature‘ studies.

The school. forest should be on land classified as
forest land rather than agricultural land. Such
forests should be reasonably near the school to
permit frequent use of it. A lake or stream is
desirable, and part of the area should be readily
adaptable for picnics and other forms of recreation.

In all cases the forest is owned by the school
district, and usually some member of the faculty
or of the community is given reSponsibility for
supervision and leadership.

The students actually share in the development
of the forestry plan. They study the site, make
maps and surveys. Whenever

ever possible such awards are
made in the school forest itself.

In Wisconsin there are 212 school forests em-
bracing I4,000 acres of land. As a result of activi-,
ties in these forests there are many tangible
benefits. One school harvests enough forest prod-
ucts to give it $400 a year to be used for school
purposes. Another school has built a recreation
cabin from materials cut from the forest, and in-
come from sales maintains the cabin. Other schools
add regularly to school equipment from proceeds
of the sale of forest products. It is generally
recognized, however, that the most important
result is the training of an entire generation in the
true meaning and importance of forests and their
conservation.

Some communities already have established
school forests as a living memorial to men in the
service. Such a memorial combines beauty, use-
fulness, and permanence, truly

possible classroom instruction
is linked with practical work
in the field, and the students
help clear tire lanes, plant seed-
lings, thin the plots, harvest
the trees, and even take part in
negotiations for forest crops.
In every possible way they are
made to feel that the forest is

314

"People learn best by doing. Thus a
generation of school children with in-
timate, personal knowledge of forest
problems is one of the best guaran-
tees we can have that we shall always
have the trees we need to sustain
forest communities in permanent pros-
perity and to help maintain the United
States in its rightful position."—
From Wisconsin’s School ' Forests.

symbolic of the great purpose
of our national sacrifice. — ,
Taken from W isconsin’s School \
Forests, presented by Ameri-
can ForestProducts Industries,

Inc., Washington 6, D. C.

” “School forests have a recog-
(Continued on page 336)

RECREATION

 

Suggested Activities for 3
Photography Club*

curriculum involves not only

the content of textbooks, ref-
erence books, courses of study,
and the processes of the class-
room, but also extracurricular activities, the life of
the school, relation of teacher to pupil and pupil to
teacher, the relation of the school to the neighbor-
hood, the building, the equipment, the playground
———in fact every aspect of the school, for each is
educative.” As is indicated in these words from a
school survey report by the Institution of Educa-
tional Research, Teachers College, New York City,
club activities in today’s schools are an integral
part of the school curriculum.

From The School and Community, by the C010—
rado Education Association, we accept the fact
that “education is an important social institution,
the fundamental purposes of which are often
obscured by the scaffolding of traditional prac-
tices. . . . Educational institutions have often as-
sumed their objectives and methods, instead of
continuously attempting to evaluate them from a
social or utilitarian point of view.” There must be
continuous evaluation of the educational program
to determine its effectiveness in meeting pupil need
in a changing society. Such an analysis will reveal
' that most of the student’s personal—social needs can
be met in the offerings of general education.

On the other hand, the. junior high school pupil
begins to exhibit specialized interests. Since these
specialized interests are many and reflect a varied
social milieu, club activities in the curriculum are
an aid in satisfying this need. Unlike the other
parts of the school program, where an “academic
' discussion of life” seems to suffice, the club activity
involves real living—life as it should be lived as
far as the interest at hand is concerned.

Of the many club activities that might command
pupil interest, our consideration here is that of
photography. In these postwar days, with the aid
of cameras and films, we are told more and more
of the secret ways in which the war was fought.
~Without further elaboration, it is an accepted fact

*Reprinted by permission from School Activities, May 1946.

IN THE MODERN school “the

 

SEPTEMBER 1946

By MARCUS E. ERICKSON

Agusta Lewis Troop
Junior High School

New HavenI Connecticut

that pictures play an important

role inlour modern world. Any

school group will have some
' photo enthusiasts, and the school

is obligated to help them sat-
isfy that interest.

Many courses of study in photography are avail-
able. Like many of the traditional subjects in the
curriculum, these photography courses are organ-
ized on a logical basis to cover a certain body of
information beginning with the simple and leading
on to the complex. In a club program where time
is limited and immediate interest is high, a logical
organization of photo activities in the junior high
school may seriously dampen interest and result in
a frustrated program. .

From our experience, it is suggested here .that
the organization be psychological, as given below,
to maintain a continuous interest and satisfaction
of immediate needs. (We might add by way of
philosophical confusion that if our activities are
not organized logically then they must be ordered
illogically. And how can educational procedures
be illogical and still be good . . .?)

Club Activities ,

The suggested list of activities has proved suf-
ficient to take about one hour each week during the
school year.

Hold club organization meetings. Limit mem-
bership to lit the facilities available. Elect officers
(president, vice-president, s ec ret a r y- t re a s u r e r,
supplies manager, and program director) and dis-
cuss their duties. Suggest a photo notebook for

.keeping records of ideas, demonstrations, dia-

grams, pictures made. A discussion of activities
club members would like to carry through will re-
flect suggestions in this series.

Visit a good photographic supply store to see
how to buy equipment, chemicals, photographic
magazines and books. Actually buy the initial
equipment and supplies needed by the club.

Prepare the darkroom for the year’s use. Make
it light-tight, clean, with sink in 'order, bottles
washed, supplies stored, equipment in operating
condition, and necessary painting.

315

316 SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES FOR A PHOTOGRAPHY CLUB

Now, before interest begins to lag, mix the
chemicals bought by the club at a previous meet-
ing. Notebook records should be kept of methods
of mixing, formulas, kinds of chemicals, and stor-
age. Make one photographic print without any
detailed explanation (for motivation) and suggest
each member bring a few negatives to print at the
next meeting.

Demonstrate contact printing. Keep notebook
records. Give opportunity for each to print. (Logi-
cally cameras, films, composition, exposure, hlm
development should come first but are much more
difficult and don’t have the immediate appeal to
make for continuous interest early in the year.)

Continue printing. Bring cameras next time.

Discuss the cameras brought by club members——
kinds, use, sizes, films used, lenses, shutters. Men-
tion pin-hole camera and possibility of making one
later in the year. Make a picture by exposing a
piece of printing paper as the negative in a camera
so the immediate results can be shown by develop—
ing the paper negative.

Demonstrate informal portraiture, outside if
possible, with natural light. Divide members into
pairs to plan and diagram in notebooks a portrait
of each other. Make the portrait with the camera
used in the demontration. These are to be used on
Christmas cards later. Assign each to make a
series of pictures during the week and have the
film Only developed by a commercial hnisher.

Using negatives made at the previous meeting,
demonstrate the making of Christmas cards. Use
ready-made masks. Members begin printing their
own cards.

Continue to make Christmas cards. Those who
are linished begin mounting cards for a bulletin-
board diSplay. as a Season’s Greeting to the school.
Suggest coloring the tiny designs that appear with
the greeting on the cards.

Complete Christmas card printing and coloring.
Mount samples of cards in notebooks.

Photography magazine study — kinds, uses,
where to buy, what to find in them, cost. List in
notebook. Pass out penny postcards and have. club
members write for literature suggested in one ad-
vertisement. Waiting for an answer will create
much interest.

Demonstrate photo coloring and tinting. Prac—
tice on prints brought by the instructor. Photo
coloring always commands a lasting interest and
serves as an excellent {ill-in when finished with
other activities or waiting for turn in the darkroom.

Discussion and sharing of items received in reply

to postcards. Organize a tile of photo,catalogues
and information. May be time for magazine read‘
ing and discussion.

Demonstration of outdoor action photography.
Divide club into groups to set up and make action
shots. '

Demonstrate film development by developing the
films exposed at the previous meeting. Don’t for-
get notebooks.

Print negatives of action pictures. Tinting, read-
ing, and notebook mounting pictures for those who
have time. .

Plan a sequence of school activities that might
be photographed. Demonstrate use of lights, ar—
ranging groups, setting up natural situations.
Home assignment of indoor photography.

Photograph school activities for which appoint-
ments have been made.

Develop school activities film and those from
home.

Print school activities negatives and those from
home assignment.

More printing, coloring, reading new magazines,
planning an exhibit.

Consider photography as a hobby or vocation.
Discuss the planning of home darkrooms, home-
made photo equipment, earning money from mak- ,
ing pictures.

Printing, reading, coloring, making equipment
and pinhole cameras.

Elementary movie making—camera operation,
lighting. Plan scenes for movie of school activities.

Complete movie sequences and send film out for
developing. .

Short hike for outdoor photgraphy — action,
landscape, portrait, trick, storytelling. Develop
lilms in spare time.

Review, edit, and plant titles for the movie.

Print hike pictures.

Elementary enlarging demonstration.

Enlarging practice, contact printing, coloring, '
photo mounting, notebooks.

Preparation of annual exhibit —- crOpping of
pictures, composition, arrangement.

Add titles to the movie and review. (This can
be used in the assembly, at parents’ groups and I
the like.) \‘

Get darkroom ready for the summer. Post the
annual exhibit.

Club party.

It is obvious that this list of 35 photography
club meetings is only suggestive and leaves much

(Continued on page 342)
RECREATION _

p

 

word from Dr. L. P. .lacks

23 February 1946

DEAR. MR. MALLERY:

I cannot tell you how highly I value the letter you sent me from the Recreation Congress at
Atlantic City, both the wording of it and the signature at the end. How well I remember the Confer-
ence I attended there in 1930, and the consequence to which it led in my long tour through the U. S.
as a missionary of the American Association, and the many friends and friendships I found in the course
of it. In reading your letter I seem to find an excuse for having lived, and lived so long, which is not
always easy to find, Such a discovery is welcome in old age, when the end of the journey cannot be far
off in the course of Nature.

Your letter reached me on the first anniversary of the death of my dear wife, after 55 years of
companionship, a loss which has left me, though surrounded by a devoted family, a very lonely man. The
letter would have given her a pleasure equal to mine. With me she would have studied the signatures
and each would have recalled to her, as it does to me, an honored figure and a well remembered face—the
figure and face of a friend. She accompanied me throughout the whole tour. She kept a diary of it
without missing a day, in which all of you who signed the letter are mentioned by name at one date or
another. I often read it aloud to my family and friends.

Nothing of late has touched me more deeply. I thank you, each and all, from the bottom of my
heart and feel that I am expressing my wife’s gratitude as well as my own.

Yours very sincerely,

Far Outlook ' L. P. JACKS.
Shotover Hill

Oxford

A!
.19..

‘ “"5 4 Mi.
‘ .

.~- ...ir b;

.‘v .

 

This picfure was senf'by Dr. Jacks and we are assuming it is a picfure of his garden.
We all know how Dr. Jacks used his own hands in making fhe bricks for his house and
also how much pleasure he has had in working in his garden.

i‘SEPTEMBEZR 1946 317

Fun in Schools after School:
Schools Serve as Community Centers

ll 0U SEE, this is recreation, and
it’s really fun,” said 10-year-
old, fourth grade student,

Anna Tookian. Anna was Speaking about the new

after-school recreation program inaugurated in

February at her school. What Anna said might

have been reiterated by several other children for

the program has gone over with these youngsters

—def1nitely!

It all started this way. Back in 1942, before he
went into the Navy, Highland Park’s Superintend-
ent of Recreation laid plans for an after-school
recreation program, using trained teachers for pro-
fessional staff. His idea was to set up a program
of activities that children want, select leaders best
suited by skill and aptitude for a “fun” program,
and then let the youngsters choose their own

activity within the group. The program was set '

up this winter on a one-day-a-week basis at two
schools, at one from. 3 :30 to 5 o’clock on Tuesdays
and at the other for the same time on Wednesdays.
The first program under the leadership of the
school principal, includes beginning swimming for
girls, a Little Theater club, library club, a home-
makers’ group, and a crafts activity.‘

Sixty enthusiastic fifth and sixth grade young-
sters have signed up for crafts. Some make shelves;
others, benches or tie racks; while still others cut
rings out of plastic and file them down to fit. One
ringmaker has already one ring to his credit and
is busy polishing up another. Two other young-
sters are making shelves. They fasten the blocks
of wood in the vise, saw out the pattern, do the
necessary gluing, sand the shelf very carefully, and
then paint it.

In the Little Theater group, forty-five youngsters
actually do write their own plays, choose their own
costumes (from the costume room), do their own
directing and make their own scenery. They pre-
sent puppet plays and do radio auditions. The
kind of plays they like? “The kind where you kill
guys is best,” says a boy in grade 8-B.

Spool lace, weaving, knotting, and making
bunny pins from old felt hats, are some of the
activities of the seven boys and the twenty-three
girls in the homemakers’ group. ’

318

By GRACE WALLACE
Highland Park, Michigan

The twenty-six boys and girls
who go to the library know just
what they want to do, too. A few
of them decide just to read. Others want to do
some homework. One group requested the libra-
rian to tell them a good mystery. A second group,
interested in s'crap books, gathered all the book
jackets of dog stories owned by the library and
made them into an interesting book. “I like dog
stories best, so I worked on that,” says a fourth
grader. “Now I know’ what books we have that
are about dogs.”

Another fourth grader is “having a time” learn-
ing to swim, but she’s going to make it, she says.
She’s one of the sixteen members of the swimming
club for beginners. “You don’t have to stay.-
That’s what makes it fun.”

Dancing, swimming, volleyball, and shuffleboard
are on the social recreation program offered every
other Friday evening from 7 until 10 o’clock. This
program operates with one of the home rooms as-
suming the responsibility and mothers and dads
from the P.T.A. helping out.

“When we save enough money, we cook; until
then, we sew,” the chairman of a homemakers’
club remarked. Those twenty girls have a definite
club organization with a vice-chairman, secretary
and treasurer. It’s the treasurer’s job to collect
live cents from each girl each week. Last week
they had saved enough. They cooked. On the days
they sew they make quilts for the toy library,
broomstick skirts for themselves and sometimes
yarn dogs. Membership is limited to sixth and
seventh graders. ’

You become very “gun-conscious” if you visit
the crafts class of fourth and fifth grade boys down
in the school basement. For guns of every descrip-
tion appear from the scraps of wood brought over
by the activity director of the Recreation Depart-

ment. One member of the group, however, would\
have none of this gun business. Instead he carved It

and sanded an exquisite Scottie in a small frame.
He said he hadn’t even used a pattern for it.
These lads all work under the watchful and help-
ful eye of the club director.

Skates, scooters, bags of marbles, puzzles, games

RECREATION -

i

FUN IN SCHOOLS AFTER SCHOOL 319

of all kinds, and dolls- disappear like magic from
the toy library. Youngsters from every grade
“charge out” a toy every Wednesday afternoon
and return it the following Tuesday morning. “It
works as any library does,” says the principal and
supervisor of the program, “with the parent as-
suming responsibility for any loss or careless
breakage.” Right now the biggest demand is for
skates and scooters, and the demand far exceeds
the supply. The library is sponsored jointly by the
P.T.A., the schools, and the Recreation Depart—
ment. Recently the Sears store in Highland Park
donated toys to the project.

Anna Tookian is one of the twenty children, all
third and fourth graders, in the music and art ac-
tivity group. They play the piano, sing, play house
with the ten-room, electrically-lighted doll house,
paint, color, or make furniture. As we watched
them on our visit a quiet boy was off by himself

"When we save enough money. we cook . . .'

'
. ‘ ,
o \ .
‘_- “. .n~—-r~--:---~v..‘.{~m'“  

SEPTEMBER 1946

 

doing a water color of a bird while two little girls
were “turning out” small tables for their own doll
houses at home.

If their plans work out, the twenty girls in the
handcraft club will be sporting handwoven purses
this summer. They learn first the intricacies of_
four strand braiding as preparation for making

' the purses. The three boys in the group are also

interested in weaving.

Dodgeball is THE game for sixth and seventh
graders. Thirty girls meet to play games and swim.
“The only trouble,” the girls say, “is that it isn’t
often enough. i It should be every night.” A dodge-
ball tournament is being sponsored for the boys.
It is a four-night-a-week affair with the younger
boys on two nights and the older boys the other
two nights. Eight teams are in the contest with
fifteen boys on each team. Regular standings are

( Continued on page 332)

 

On the Record
A Few Statements from Annual Reports,

I

sires to express appreciation to the National

Recreation Association for the helpful bul-
letins, inSpiring publications and numerous other
aids;

“The value of the services extended by the Na-.

tional Recreation Association to Long Beach and
other cities of the nation can scarcely be expressed
in figures. The Association has pioneered in an
important field of American community life and
has become the acknowledged authority in- that
field.”

Recreation Department,

Long Beach, California

“During the year the National Recreation As-
sociation of America continued to render invalu-
able service through constant communication from
its New York headquarters together with visita-
tion by representatives studying the Department’s
policy, programs and general services to the public.

“The Association, which is recognized as the
parent fostering organization for the cause of rec-
reation in the United States of America, has con-

tinued to do this very effectively throughout the
' years and again the Executive Council and the
staff wish to express through this public medium
appreciation for services rendered.”
Recreation Department,
Pasadena, California

“This report would be incomplete without ac-
knowledgment of the line services of the National
Recreation Association. Books, bulletins and other
technical recreation information have come from
the Association to our oflice, keeping us posted of
the latest deve10pments throughout the country.
There has been a constant flow of communications
between Tacoma and the National Recreation As-
sociation, seeking their assistance on all types of
problems. Tacoma is most grateful for this service
and we trust 'our contributions to this privately
supported organization will be increased during
the new year.”

Recreation Commission,
Tacoma, Washington

320

"THE LONG BEACH Recreation Commission de-

“The field and consultation services rendered
by your representatives have been a continued
source of professional help and inspiration to our
staff.”

Recreation Commission,
Greensboro, North Carolina

“We express our deepest appreciation to the
National Recreation Association for their bulletin
service and advisory assistance.”

Recreation Board,
Muskegon, Michigan

“We wish to record here our indebtedness to the
National Recreation Association of America for
their unfailing courtesy and willingness at all times
to advise and counsel on recreation problems.”

Park and Playground Association, Inc.,
Montreal, Quebec

“The Recreation Division wishes to acknowledge
and express its appreciation to the National Rec-
reation Association.”

Recreation Division, Department of Health
and Recreation, Dearborn, Michigan

“The National Recreation Association has been
an inSpiration and a guide in professional growth.”
Recreation Board, Winona, Minnesota

“It is a great source of strength to know that
your local effort is continually being backed by a
parent Association. Such is our National Recrea-
tion Association, which is always available for all
types of assistance. The monthly magazine REC-
REATION, and the bulletin service bring constant
inspirational suggestions to bear on the local

'problems.

“Our grateful thanks to the National Recreation
Association for its many expressions of assistance.”
Recreation Association,
Lancaster, Pennsylvania

“We express our deepest appreciation to the
National Recreation Association for their bulletin
service and direct aid.”

Public Recreation Board,
Grand Rapids, Michigan
(Con-tinued on page 346)

RECREATION '

l

The Friendly Hearth.

OORESTOWN, NEW JERSEY, is not a large com-
munity. (Its population is about 8,000.)

But from its Community House a full—

sized program of activities reaches out daily to all

parts of the community and to all the people in
them.

Moorestown’s “Friendly Hearth” was first
brought into being 20 years ago by the generosity
of Eldridge Johnston, one of the town’s citizens.
Five years \later another gift from the same source
provided additional space in the building. Thus
there- came into existence a gracious shell of stone
and wood, plaster and fabric. The shell needed to
be inhabited by people making happy use of its

space before it would come alive. It needed money '

in the bank before its continuing existence and
growth could be assured. Those things the people
of Moorestown added to the original gifts.

The House and Its People

In the House there are many rooms—many
well-planned spots suitable for special occasions or
for the casual moment. There is, for instance, the
Public Library, open to the people and used by
them 10 hours a day, six days a week. Here the
younger members of the community have a place
of their own—the Alice-in-Wonderland Room.
Built and decorated for the children, this is the
place where youngsters sit before the lovely open
fireplace to hear in wonder the great stories of the
past and the present during the Library Story
Hour. Older boys and girls, too, and their fathers
and mothers, sisters and cousins, and aunts find
various satisfactions in the i 5,000 volumes on the
Library shelves.

The Library is probably the most frequented
part of the House. But other rooms are used again
and again. The Moorestown Woman’s Club h01ds
its meeting in its own club room, one of five large
rooms for clubs at the disposal of the community’s
organized groups. There is a modern kitchen from
which 400 people can be served comfortably. There
is space for arts and crafts. A gymnasium is so
planned that it can be used for dramatic produc-
tions and for formal dancing. It will seat an audi-
ence of 300. There is a drop-in room with a juke
box for the younger set. There are ping-pong
tables and a swimming pool for all ages. Outside
are facilities for outdoor sports—baseball, football,

SEPTEMBER 1946

tennis, archery, field events, nature club outings—
all under the direction of the staff of the Recrea—
tion Commission. The Moorestown Visiting
Nurse Association and the Family Welfare Asso-
ciation have 'set up their headquarters in the
House.

Within the friendly walls there is space and wel-
come for twenty-four organizations which regularly
use its facilities. Camera clubs and sewing circles,
luncheon clubs and temperance union, bridge fans
and Red Cross workers, young and old, rich and
poor use its facilities without regard to creed or
race. Its hospitable doors swing open to all the
people of the community. The Friendly Hearth is
the center and soul of the community’s life.

Making the Wheels Go Round

Like the youngster in H elen’s Babies you' may
well say, “I want to see the wheels go round!”
“or all this kind of lusty activity doesn’t just hap-
pen of itself. There is a mechanism that makes it
tick and that mechanism, no matter how simple,
must be watched and kept in good repair.

The property is held by twelve trustees who ad-
minister the funds and keep the building in repair.
In addition the Recreation Commission, appointees
of the Moorestown Township Committee, serves
as-house committee. They draw up the rules that
keep the house running smoothly.

The program is financed in two ways. There is
a trust fund which was raised by the citizens of
Moorestown for this purpose and from which the
interest goes for running expenses. In addition
there are contributions made by the organizations
using the building. The financing of the recrea-
tion staff comes from the Township Committee.

Does it work? The answer to that is on the
record. For ‘20 years the Moorestown Community
House has functioned successfully, has helped fos-
ter in the town “wholesome community living,
congenial social contact, and the creative outlet
that develops wider horizons.”

The National Recreation Association takes
special pleasure in congratulating the Community
House as it fulfills its first 20 years of life. That
pleasure, furthermore, is not entirely untinged
with a kind of parental pride. For the Association
was privileged to work with the people of Moores-

(C antinucd on page 341)

321

Dream —

and Produce

By LAVELLE ROSSELOT
Westerville. Ohio _

0U CAN BUILD them as big aS'you can dream
Ythem!

If you’re a one—man or one-woman organ-
izer-promoter-producer, your own playwright,
scenewright, and business manager—as most of us
have to be in school or recreation situations—if
you’re one who lookS'with envy upon the “Village
Little Theater” which boasts of a trained this or
that—courage! You,'under your own steam, can
still produce any show you can visualize, and geta
terrific wallop out of it! There are only three
rules: never doubt yourself or your dreams; don’t
be afraid to change your mind, a dozen times, if
need be; know you’ll eat, sleep and live nothing
else for weeks. '

Ever since I got bitten by the producing bug
I’ve gone avidly after every “Do It Yourself,”
“Write Your Own,” and “Genius in Your Midst”
article and have, more often than not, come away
definitely disappointed. I’ve wanted "something
more. I’ve dreamed of swirling Follies’ Girls in
(our own Bad Boy of Bagdad. I’ve wanted to put
together modern dancing and Greek mythology in
.an under-sea fantasy of today.

But little real help could be found in the written
word. 30 there was but one thing to do. Try it!
And we have done it, with amazing success, over
and over. Each time, as we sit back on final re—
hearsals of a production seeing all its faults we
find ourselves saying in awe, “Gee, did we do
this?” Our “show people” did not need to say
just, “I was in a show.” They could say, “I was
in a special show, a thing of beauty.”

Your Group and Its Talents

Certainly the group with which you have to
work has a great deal to do with what you dare
--dream, but their interests are of much greater
import to that dream than are their acting talents.
The number of pe0ple you have, their willingness
to work, to double in parts, to be a faithful part of
the whole-—these are the important things. One
little theater group may have some training, and

-322

they may have the ability to‘ wrench frightened
cries from a tense audience when the “body” falls
out onto the semi-darkened stage. But another
group, with no talent except for fun, can roll an
audience in the aisles with their own homemade a
“Gay Nineties” show. ‘

I worked with a woman’s chorus, ranging (in
different seasons) from 35 to 80 members, ages '
16 to 60. It was a constantly fluctuating group
because its members were government workers '
who were over-staying the “duration and six
months.” It was a group in which I could never
count on more than six voices for solo and some-
times'only two or three; where, if I had two good
altos who could read music and six or eight who
could learn quickly by ear, I was enthralled.
It was a group with no special talent. But they
liked to work together, liked to sing, and liked to
“do a show.” Such people provide more fertile
ground for real soul-satisfying show work than
many a “talented” group which wants to do some-
thing smooth, SOphisticated and often, therefore,
brittle.

_,-.
,r

Productions from Scratch

This choral group produced, among other things,
The Juggler of N otre Dame in our own arrange-7
ment suited to a narrator, dramatic dance interpre;
tation and a chorus of 30 “monks”—not chosen
special voices, but anyone who wanted to sing or
who wanted to “do something.” The production
took three months of rehearsal. Only one or two
of the dancers had ever had any training. One was
a supple girl in her late teens who, though she
worked a few weeks swing shift, a few weeks day
shift, spent hours every week limbering up and
perfecting as Barnaby, the juggler, the inspired
dance which was his gift to the Virgin.

In the preparation of this program we were
fortunate in having the help of ‘a dance teacher in
our own housing projects. I doubt if this par-
ticular show arrangement would ever have been
attempted had we not had this help at hand. How—
ever, each community or each working group will
offer help of some particular kind to give direction
to your dreaming.

In our next big undertaking, Allah’s H olidayX'
we had to depend upon resources within our ownll
group for the dancing. Here, because we needed
crowds of harem girls, we used anyone who was
willing to put in a great many hours of rehearsal
and suffer a few sore muscles. The ideas for dance
steps and formations stemmed from amazing‘
sources, not the least of them Salome and Where

RECREATION

r

l

P

DREAM AND PRODUCE 323

She Danced and some comic strip stories of the
Arabian Nights which appeared in the nick of time
and started us thinking about costumes and the
important part they .would play in our choice of
dance figures.

We had one quiet girl of 17 or 18 who was
studying dancing, and a girl who had had a semes-
ter of Eurythmics. These, coupled with an in-
satiable thirst I’ve always had for fancy dancing
and figure skating (never having done a step of
either!) produced in the end amazingly pleasing
simple group movements and steps. We capped
these with three human statues who came down
from their pedestals to dance before the Sultan.

Working in a group, gathering ideas from every-
where, never afraid to change something or try
something new, we evolved a “lotus flower” with
the heroine in the center surrounded by swaying,
turning statues and then by two outer rows of
“petals.” The general dance movement was sim—
ple. It started with the whole group, arms above
head, gracefully swaying from side to side, moving
from the waist. Then the outer circle, holding
hands, went into a back bend. These were the best
dancers, purposely placed nearest the audience.
The second row repeated the first figure, while the
outer row held the back bend position. Then the
statues lifted the heroine straight in the center
above their heads. The impression was of a lovely
lotus blossom unfolding. It took weeks of work
and sore muscles, but the ,routines were good re—
ducing exercises for any waist line so no one
minded! However, no amount of temporary prac-
tice could train amateur muscles to come up slowly
and gracefully from the back bend. That non—
professional situation had to be covered. So, we
tumbled the “halfwit” onto the stage just at the
last moment of endurance, and fear and flight

rescued the dancers and sent them scurrying to
the wings.

Talent Is Where You Find It

As you build your show, you unconsciously build
around the people you have. It is amazing what
can be unearthed in just any cross section of hu—
manity. For days I had been going around tear—
ing my hair. I needed humor to relieve the fairy—
tale goodness of Allah’s Holiday and I couldn’t
find what I wanted. Then one night after hours, I
walked into a housing unit lobby and found the
right answer in an exercise class. I found a court
jester, standing on her head, doing back flips and

SEPTEMBER 1946 '

what not. I could never have trained one but there
she was, ready-made to order.

The needs of your group will often give direc-
tion to your planning. Choice of music was espe-
cially important to the building of Allah’s Holiday.
As I have said before, this choral group was fluctu—
ating and not especially talented. To have kept
them always at their own level—the very easiest
of two—part music—would have been to kill all en-
thusiasm. And while the ability to be technically
perfect was always low in this group, enthusiasm
was very high. Continual practice replaced talent.
We could have procured one of the many very
simple, very insipid two—part operettas for women
always on the market. The participants would
have gotten much from just producing any pro—
gram together, and such procedure would certainly
have been easier on the producer! But we felt an
introduction to classical music was of far greater
importance than technical perfection. This meant
a careful selection of tuneful melodies likely to be
encountered in the everyday musical world. It
meant, often, making simple arrangements. We
hope Grieg could look down and smile, as at chil-
dren, to see Anitra dancing before the Sultan; that
Tschaikovsky did not mind a two—part vocal ar—
rangement of the Nutcracker Suite as entertain-
ment at a Pagan Festival. Of course, such simpli—
fication sends you treading on treacherous ground
among music perfectionists, but when for weeks
and months afterwards, girls both from the cast
and from the audience came rushing up with some
such statements as, “Did you hear the radio last

night? They played the Waltz of the Flowers!”
I think we were justified.

Facilities and Equipment

Each producing situation is different, too, when
it comes to building a show. One hall has a beauti-
ful permanent stage with atrocious lighting and a
movie screen at the back so you can make up your
mind to take down and put up scenery every other
day. Another has a small temporary stage unfit for
pageantry—so you use some old platforms and
build a two—level stage. A third has no stage at all,
so you work on the floor or, again, on platforms.
These limitations need not be limitations on your
dream or its realization. They do present hurdles
and they may be the mother of variety and inspiraf
tion. Sometimes very ingenious stage sets are
purely accidental.

(Continued on page 333)

Recreation Area Maintenance

AINTENANCE, for the pur—
M poses of this article, will
include all of the activities
of a park department relating to
the upkeep of material properties. There are vari-
ous reasons why maintenance is one of the most
important functions of a park department. Main—
tenance is the only antidote to depreciation. It
will not prevent depreciation entirely but it can
prolong the life and usefulness of your improve—
ments. ’

To do justice to your maintenance program,
you must have adequate funds. The people are
usually not backward in voting money for the
acquisition and improvement of properties, but
they frequently fail to realize the corresponding
necessity of providing the necessarycurrent rev—
enue to maintain the improvements. The lack of
revenue leads to patchwork methods which is a
wasteful and dangerous practice. Do not confuse
sensible repairs with patchwork. Neither should
general maintenance be considered a “patch job.”
It is safe to assert that more structures are ruined
and more money is wasted through cheap patch—
work methods than through any other phase of
activity. If a job is worth doing it should be
worth doing right, so why not read from the same
book of rules you would use for any good con—
struction?

Another good reason, a psychological one, may
be given in favor of good maintenance. PeOple are
always greatly influenced in their conduct by the
condition of their environment. They are apt in
using park facilities to be more careful if they
see that there is neatness, cleanliness, and order
everywhere about them than if the opposite pre—
vails.

General maintenance of recreation areas em—
braces every phase of construction. It is necessary
that we be familiar with the use of almost every
kind of building material and capable of coordin-
ating and directing the various craftsmen.

Facts and Figures

How much maintenance can justly be expended
on a building or structure? Let us consider the de—
preciation of a building over a period of years and
the average life expectancy of the structure or ap—

324

By A. L. JONES

Superintendent of Maintenance

City of Dallas Park Department

paratus. The usual allowance for
the average life of a building and
its depreciation may be estimated
about as follows:

Masonry structures: Life 50 years, deprecia-
tion 2 percent per year.

Frame structures: Life 40 years, depreciation
2% percent per year.

Good fences, bridges, and the like : Life 33 years,
depreciation 3 percent per year. _

Play equipment including picnic tables: Life 10—
20 years, depreciation IO percent to 5 percent per
year.

Figures for plumbing fixtures, water and sewer
lines vary greatly, due to the kind of materials _
used and to the amount of vandalism. Cast iron
and copper water lines require very little main—
tenance, whereas standard galvanized water lines

may need to be replaced in IO years. Because of /

vandalism, your repairs run high on porcelain fix-
tures and small fittings, such as valves, faucets,
bubble heads and hose bibbs. The above percent—
ages are estimated on the assumption that the
structures be kept in a good state of repair. This
does not mean that you, in all cases, will need to
expend from 2 percent to IO percent per year on
repairs, but for most items it will be very close
to that.

There is another line of thought that should be
considered at this time. With the general growth
of your city, over a period of years, your buildings
may become outmoded, your bridges and struc—
tures inadequate or be in the wrong location be-
cause of general deve10pment of properties, your
electric and plumbing systems overloaded and will

. probably need to be entirely reconstructed. You

may say that such items should be charged to new
construction and not to the cost of maintenance.
You could be entirely right, but from past obser-
vations I have noticed that the overloaded main-
tenance fund usually furnishes the “free ride.”
Play equipment and furnishings, such as used
by the recreation department, should be estimated
somewhat differently, and more liberally than the
estimates for buildings and structures. Year by
year the demands from the public are growing
greater for entertainment in supervised areas.

(Continued on page 336)

RECREATION

WORLD AT PLAY

TWELVE agencies in
Greenwich, Connecti-
_ cut, in this summer of
1946 pooled their resources so that every person
in the community would know when and where to
go to take part in 28 different recreation activities
from archery to woodworking. The activities and
the agencies that sponsored them were listed on
one page of a four-page chart 18” X 22”. The
two inner pages of the chart carried more detailed
information about the activities—times, places,
costs (if there were any), leadership. The activi-
ties included sports, games and folk dancing, dra—
matics and music, arts and crafts, nature, reading
and storytelling, camping, hiking, trips and swim-
ming. That chart is an impressive indication of
what a town can do for summer fun if it puts its
mind to it!

Charting Summer Fun

THE Bureau of Recre-
ation in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, prepar-
ed a full program of
summer fun for its people. Here are some of the
activities highlighted in 1946 at municipal recrea-
tion centers in the City of Brotherly Love:
City-wide baseball league for boys under I4
Baseball and softball league for boys I4 to 16
Learn-to-Swim campaign
Championship track and field meets for boys and
girls, men and women
~ Swimming championship
Volleyball championships
Community celebrations on July 4th
Special events such as doll parades, baby pa—
rades, kite-making and iiying, lantern making
and lantern parade, miniature villages, play-
ground circus, community play week, com-
munity sing week, freckles contest.
In addition there were daily sessions of sing-
ing, low organized games, handcraft, storytelling,
and many other activities.

Summer Program in
Philadelphia

WORD has just been
received that - United
Nations Week (men-
tioned in “\Vorld at Play,” August) has been post-
poned from September 3-9 to September 22-28 to
coincide with the newly determined date for the
Opening of the United Nations General Assembly
in New York.

Please Note !

SEPTEMBER 1946

PRACTICALLY anyone
living on a farm to-
day can enjoy'a pond
or lake on his own premises at little expense to
himself. Ponds and lakes are being built in rural
areas all over the country, or wherever the soil
and topography permit. This program is being
promoted by the U. S. Soil Conservation Depart-
ment in cooperation with State Conservation De-
partments and State Agricultural Departments,
and also with State Agricultural Colleges. In some
States almost the. entire cost of construction and
equipment is paid by the government, which will
also plant trees around the lakes and ponds and,
if the farmer has built his pond. according to re-
quired specifications, stock it with fish. The proj-
ect not only assists in the watering of stock (the
water being conveyed to the animals by pipe) and
in tire emergencies, but provides right on the farm
recreation opportunities such as boating, fishing,
swimming and skating. Missouri has some 30,000
farm ponds (and is aiming at a 500,000 figure),
Oklahoma has 40,000 and Iowa is reported to have
more probably than any other state.

Farm Ponds and Lakes

FIFTY acres of land
near the Kankakee
River have been set
aside through a grant from the Public Service
Company of Northern Illinois for use as a camp
site for 4—H clubs. An estimated $200,000, which
will be needed to build the camp, is to be raised by
public subscription. In the meantime a tent camp
has made it possible to use the area this summer.
When plans have become reality 300 4-H boys and
girls will be able to use the camp facilities for each
of twelve summer weeks.

4-H Club Camp

IN APRIL, 1946, 30
young people of Mem-
phis, Tennessee, or-

ganized themselves into a verse speaking choir.
After a week of preparation this group joined with
a chorus of singers to present a Sunday night pro-
gram for the pleasure of local and visiting recrea-
tion leaders. Their performance was so stimulat-
ing that the audience went away certain that here
was a recreation activity and a skill that should
be further developed in the group and set up in
other communities elsewhere.

Verse Speakers

325

326 WORLD A '1' PLA Y

“ ,2
jf/anfid
5+er 267

Another National
model combining
smartness with practi-
cability. The "Atlantis"
is a one-piece sui’rI full
cut with new popular
pleated easy sleeves.
com plete with bloomer

. . . sport collar . . . at-

tached belt and buckle.
Created for fun-
charged gaming or
serious calis’rhenics.

S end for illustrated
folder showing other
interesting gym
snit styles.

NATIONAL
Sports Equipment Co.

365 MARQUETTE

Fond du Lac
Wis.

Winners—#Each year the American Library
Association awards two prizes to makers of chil-
dren’s books. The Newberry award goes to the
author of what is judged to be the best children’s
book written in the preceding year. The Caldecott
Medal goes to the most distinguished picture book
of the year. The 1945 awards, given at the A.L.A.
meeting at Buffalo, New York, in June 1946 went
to Lois Lenski, who received the Newberry Medal
for her Strawberry Girl and to Maud and Miska
Petersham, whose illustrations for The Rooster
C rows brought them the .Caldecott award.

Shore Line for Recreation—California’s shore
line stretches for 1,065 miles along the Paciiic.
Now 259 miles of this stretch are publicly owned.
State, county and city efforts are being bent to-
ward the end of bringing the rest into public own-
ership to be used for erosion control and for rec—
reation. The State legislature has appropriated
$10,000,000 for the purpose in funds to be matched
by cities and counties. None of this money may be
allocated until the community has prepared a mas-
ter plan showing how the funds will be used. All
county plans must be approved by the State Park
Commission.

 

Ray Stannard Baker

N THE DEATH of Ray Stannard Baker on July
I 12, 1946 the recreation movement lost one of its
most loyal friends and supporters. For twenty—one
years Mr. Baker was a sponsor of the Association,
raising money for its work. For seventeen years
he was an honorary member.

In his writings under the name of David Gray-
son he did much to create the kind of attitude in
individuals and in families and in neighborhoods
which the Association itself through the years has
striven to build up.

What the recreation movement is today is in
very large part the result of the devoted efforts of
men and women of the type of Ray Stannard
Baker, who in their own way and on their own
initiative have worked for more abundant living
and then have united to carry on a common under- .
taking in the National Recreation Association of
America. The thousands of supporters which the;
national recreation movement has all over the '
country would have been impossible but for the
labor of men and women of the type of Mr. Baker.

The National Recreation Association desires to
record its debt to Ray Stannard Baker and its
appreciation of all that his help has meant.

Anniversary Number—Teen-agers in Colum—
bus, Georgia, make a paper during the summer.
All the work on The Tavern is done by the young-
sters. The first issue for I946—June 11 —cele-
brated the third birthday of Teen Tavern. An in—
teresting item in this issue of the paper describes
a very special project of the members of Teenl
Tavern. The youngsters, concerned because many '
returning veterans had no club of their own and
were over-age for membership in 'the Tavern, turn ‘
all their facilities over to the veterans once a week. 

Fish Pond in Montana—Youngsters in Mis- ‘
soula, Montana, can fish to their hearts’ content—
and bring home, if they’re lucky, a daily' limit of
five lish. Last spring the Board of Directors of
the Western Montana Fish and Game Association».
took a long-term lease on a pond near the city, 
it into good fishing condition, fenced it. The State;
Fish and Game Commission stocked it. Boys and
girls appointed by their teachers to represent their
fellow pupils in the grades formed an association
with officers, by-laws, annual dues (10 cents a
year). When the season opened 400 grade-school—§
ers turned out to fish.

RECREATION

 

    
   

. I -

f\?’ 1‘ ‘ ~J’ . (3
a f”. t ‘: \ r .- .2
* stir; ,  , U ' ' '
2 9’09,» ‘ W’ . I5 " ' “'a ,’
" r a? 45‘ ’ .a" -' 't o, I
:-»-~ H 1, J ‘3‘“; , P . gt a
‘t: a \. a x ’
n1? » J“ ‘ .-
”_ at \ I. \"\ a .1
<‘ ‘5. 4, " "\ -‘.'"
r3”: ~ I... «\ aI '
\J .‘ -
t ’5 ,. . '-"
‘. 3?. t .' 5" ~ . '  t ‘
I' -'. , I r.‘
\’ n 1- ‘3 ' «t e
‘ .3- - “a.
; ~ UV
\ g .-
1 v, if
'v' 2 >37“;
. , .
" .63 ,.

v:
‘ 2».-
a I; >
4'1
a a
. '3 O
. , C
. 1-}:1; ,
(a
.F‘,
‘ "V1,
, a
x. a,
{V-

@

:10 says :60 were or am *

 

 :10 Bay: :40 were or any 

’--.

(‘5’) $10 8095‘ $40 W087i! 0F may *

. . . w ,m say: :30 were a; may *

6:5; 510 8096‘ $25 W087i! 0” PM? *

I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
|
|
I
I
|
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I

A Voit Rubber-Covered Basketball was bounced on a concrete sur-
face over .a half million times ». I . RESULT: Slight wear on grain;

‘ no wear on seams; no strain on fabric; no wear on valve. Only
one of the many exhauStive and grueling tests proving Voit rub-
ber-covered balls do outwear (by many times) any other type of
equipment made. ’

If you specify Voit, your budget is worth 250 to 600 per cent more
than appropriated;

 Actual ratios developed 55- year-around tests on graz'eled 36/3001
playgrounds. « '

W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORPORATION

1600 E. 25»: Street, los Angeles H O 180 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago 6

 

I .
4_——————————p_—_—_—_——_—_

SEPTEMBER 1946

3.3.5 PH 1 LAUELPHI A’S PROGRAM

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation. ,
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a halL-
mark of quality and unvarying
performance.

 

Folk Arts Workshop—The time was August
26-31. The place was Camp Skymont, near Luray,
Virginia. The occasion was Virginia’s first Folk
Arts Workshop. The camp was open to teachers,
church leaders, and a limited number of college
and high school students who came together to
learn, under the leadership of Richard Chase, au-
thority on American folk arts, the games, dances,
songs, tales of their ancestors. Object of the work-
shoppers was to practice and enjoy together these
activities While they were at the camp and then
to go back and carry on what they had learned in
their own homes and their own communities.

Pigtails and Beach Picnics—“Show your pig-
tail,” was the order of one day at all‘ the play—
grounds in Winona, Minnesota. Each playground
had a pigtail contest with certilicates and ribbons
awarded the longest, shortest, brightest, thickest,
thinnest pigtail. Surprise element of the event—
on one ground a boy entered the contest!

Another feature of Winona’s summer program
was beach picnics for boys and girls under I4.
Leaders took groups of youngsters to the beach
once each week.

Philadelphia's Program
for the Expansion and
Improvement of
Recreation Facilities

OUR MILLION five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000) was recently appropriated by the
Mayor of Philadelphia and City Council for the
development, improvement and expansion of rec-
reation facilities in the City of Brotherly Love.

In December of 1945, $I,500,000 was granted
for the improvement of the 45 recreation centers
and 38 swimming pools under the jurisdiction of
the Bureau of Recreation, Department of Public
Welfare. The department’s program for spending
this sum is well under way.

The plans provide for outdoor floodlights power-
ful enough to permit night basketball, football prac-
tice, tennis and other outdoor sports; picnic groves
equipped with tables and benches; and a large ce-
ment area at each playground for outdoor dances,
roller skating, volleyball and other activities. The
cement areas will be so constructed as to permit
flooding or spraying for ice skating during the
winter season.

In the primary election held in May the voters.
registered overwhelming approval of the city’s pro-
posal to spend $3,000,000 for recreation activities.
Consequently preparations have begun for the most
ambitious health and sports program ever at-
tempted by the City.

Part of the money will be used to improve city-
owned ground as recreation centers, and part will
be used to acquire ten or more privately-owned
sites for playground purposes. '

A survey is being made of the entire City to de-
termine the best locations for more than a score of
new recreation centers. Meetings are being held
with neighborhood groups to learn first-hand what
is needed in the way of playground facilities. At
the same time, a joint study of recreation needs on

.——-—A—————-——-———

a city-wide basis is being conducted by the Depart- 

ment and the City Planning Commission.

At the recreation centers scattered throughout \f

the City, proposed facilities would include swim-
ming pools, community buildings and space for all
types of recreation activities on a year-round basis.
Dancing, dramatics, music, hobbies and sports will
be encouraged on a greater scale.

4".

IS

The purpose of the present survey to determine a,
the best playground locations is to see that the \

RECREATION

 

When it’s modeled

In

msmc  u"

.’7W/

HE OBJECTS SHOWN in the panel were modeled with
PLASTIC WOOD by students in the 7th, 8th and 9th grades
in the Herron Hill Junior High School, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

As the result of a search to discover a low-cost modeling medium

PLASTIC WOOD was selected as ideal for the purpose. No
preparation between classes was necessary. The modeled articles had

a permanent quality,

THE TEST COURSE was conducted over an 8-week period at
the Herron Hill Junior High School, using simple items available
in every home—such as flexible wire, paper clips, small boxes,
coat hangers, beads, felt, colored cords and safety pins.

0 Designs were just drawn on cardboard, either by tracing or
free hand. PLASTIC WOOD was then added in thin layers as
the modeling progressed. In fashioning the belt the following
steps were taken. First, the design was drawn on a cardboard
mill: bottle top or a similar piece of cardboard; second, PLASTIC
WOOD was applied in a thin layer to the underneath or back-
side of the disc; third, PLASTIC WOOD was modeled in a
thin layer around the design; and fourth, the design itself was
modeled in relief with PLASTIC WOOD.

O The holes through which 'the thin leather thongs are laced,
to hold the discs together, were made with a pin or a piece of
wire while the PLASTIC'WOOD was still soft. When dry,
each section was sandpapered to a smooth finish, painted and

decorated. Any type of paint, nail polish, areoplane "dope" or
varnish is practical for a bright, colorful finish.

 

Sold Everywhere

 
 
   
 
 

FREE SAMPLE! If you would like to experiment with PLASTIC WOOD for
classroom modeling, we will be glad to send you samples of PLASTIC
WOOD and PLASTIC WOOD SOLVENT. Direct your request on your school
stationery to: BOYLE—MIDWAY Inc., 22 East 40th St., New York I6, N.Y.

T.M. Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

    

Handles like putty . . . Hardens into wood!

SEPTEMBER 1946 329

330

 

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping'or breaking.

A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
_ of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Ofiicial Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

most congested areas, many of them now wholly

without recreation facilities, are adequately cared
for.——-John V. Smith.

Organizing'Recrea’rion in a'

‘Small Community
(Continued from page 295)

geographically, invitingly planned and landscaped,
and boasts of the usual park facilities and equip-
ment. Yet the annual attendance has always been
small and it was used at a minimum for occasional
picnics and Sunday ball games.

With the organization of the recreation depart-
ment, there was a decided increase in the attend-
ance at the park and the use of its facilities by the
children and adults of the village. The horseshoe
courts are used, the basketball and volleyball courts
are busy, the baseball diamond is in constant de-
mand, and there is a softball game nightly. Chil-
dren’s games are in progress daily during the sum-

mer and the sand box and handcraft table are well
patronized.

JUDGE AMANDA’S DECISION

After one year of organized public recreation
the village board of Menomonee Falls realized the
value of promotional leadership in play and in
leisure time activities, because the expenditure of
less than $500 for summer activity leadership in
the park resulted in an increase of 1,000 percent in
attendance. The board is convinced that it pays
to spend that amount of money to promote the use
of" a $40,000 facility. '

Judge Amanda's Decision

F COURSE YOU’VE HEARD about the fairies in
Ireland, the little people—the same are they
that are said to whisper in an Irishman’s ear and
tell him things that nobody else knows. And that’s
Why they say, “The Irish know things.” '
’ Well, out in North Hollywood, in the sunny
land of’California, there lives a young Irish lady
called Amanda. Yes, six—year-old Amanda with
the long black curls and the shining black eyes. "

And because Amanda’s Irish, she has no doubt
of the reality of the fairies. For don’t they perch
on her shoulder, whispering in her ear and telling
her things to do and things not to do? And if any—
one were to tell Amanda that there are no such
things as fairies, she would be just as skeptical as
if you were to tell her there is no sun or no
moon. If you want not to believe, that’s your privi-
lege. But don’t tell your doubts to Amanda.

Take for instance that afternoon it was raining.
Amanda was rather sad because she couldn’t go
out and play with her red wagon—the one she got
for Christmas.

But Kathlyn, the child’s mother, saved the day.~

Perhaps it was the fairies themselves that prompted
her, too. '

“Ah, Amanda Mauvourneen, will you forget that
wagon now? Sure, you can’t be playing in the rain
with it, anyway. And will you be taking notice of
your four—year-old doll there—the one that Santa
brought you—that’s the size of a four-year-old
child, no less? ‘

“And a fine wet afternoon like this. . . . Why do
you not be telephoning all your lady friends to
come to a tea party? '

“And ’tis a contest we’ll be after having. W e’ll
ask each young lady to bring one of her four-"year-
old dresses to try on your doll there. And ’tis a
prize we’ll be after awarding for the dress that’s
entirely safe for a four—year—old doll to be wearing.
And that’ll be for you to decide.

“Judge Amanda—that’s what you’ll be.

RECREATION

[7” PW, Sm PM aw: Toucnnuwws. 

7;}:  

.-

       

if?! A
*‘V

1hr

Q

8

f

«5
H
as
Mr
R.

‘ a?
.

e» y
9‘}

3551 by rm

"‘1qu “no. 7-“?! l- ‘A 1" ‘-

WINTARK FEATURES

Cordura“ wound. Nine layers of materials
which produce prOper action- ~preserve uni- ._= :1
form shape—provide surer grip. This rugged f  - S A l- E s c o M PA N Y
‘5 AMERICA'S PORMIOST ATHIETIC EQUIPMENT

construction also makes WI NTARK Foot- _;
' ‘¥ balls moisture-proof. washable and abrasion ‘  Box 11 . . _ _ SHAMOKIN, PA.

resistant.
*Reg. trademark of DuPont Co.

- .ua'....u-T-.....‘..u 33.:

332 HOSPITAL WORK

“And, in making your decision, sure it’s myself
that’s hoping that your honor will be remembering
all the things I’ve told ydu about what dresses are
safe and what are not for little children.

“For, what with all the accidents happening
every day-——sure, if it’s not about safety that you

be learning, sure it’s no younger generation that
we’ll have' left at all, at all.

“And for the prize—let’s see. . . . Well, maybe
now that motor car filled with sweets—7the one you

haven’t broken into yet. And that’s the eighth
wonder of the world, it is for a fact.”

Well, in no time at all, at all, there were the
young ladies congregated at Amanda’s house for
the contest. And after the young ladies had en—

joyed the hot chocolate and sugar cakes to their
fill, the contest began.

One after another, the young ladies tried the
dresses they had brought on the big doll. And‘
Judge Amanda was about to award the prize to an

Alice-blue gown, all done up “fancy as you- please,”
with big loose ribbon bows.

And highly unsafe it was. And sad was Amanda’s
mother to think Amanda had forgotten all the
things she had been told about what dresses are
safe and what are not.

But the fairies came to the rescue. They whis—
pered a warning in Amanda’s ear.

“No, no, Amanda! Can you not be seeing for
yourself the dress is not safe at all, at all? Sure,
it’s herself, the lovely doll there, that’ll be catch-
ing herself with the loose ribbon bows on the
chairs and door handles and all, as she goes danc-
ing at night around the house, and be after hurting
herself.” ~

So Amanda heeded the warning of the fairies

and awarded the prize to a plain gingham dress
with no loose bows at all, at all, carefully explain-
ing to all the gathered company her reason for so
doing.

And great was the clapping of hands. And the
young ladies vowed, one and all, that they would
not wear loose bows on their 'dresses either, so that
they wouldn’t be after catching themselves on the
chairs and door handles and all—Faith .Kildare.

EDITOR’S NOTE: This story was inspired by a safety
article written by Irene Dunne for the C alifomia Parent-
Teacher in October. It was dramatized in a script for
radio and was put on by the Pasadena Institute for Radio.
It was so well received that plans are being made for a
radio series on child safety. It is reprinted by permission
from The California Parent-Teacher, May 1946.

each of the days they play.

Fun in Schools After School

(Continued from page 319)
posted. The boys have a swim for an hour on '

   

Another popular program is the social dancing
on Friday and Monday afternoons from 3 :30 to 5.
The younger boys and girls come on Monday and
the older ones on Friday. There are about sixty
pupils in each group.

That this after-school program is what boys and
girls want is evidenced by the fact that in. its first
month 53 percent of the boys and girls participated
in it. from one school while at the other there was
a 65 percent participation. Next year it_is hoped
that similar programs can be organized in four
additional schools. .

The Superintendent of Schools in Highland
Park is happy about the project. He says, “There
are many outlets whereby the schools‘ can be of
service to a community in other than the tradi-
tionally accepted fashion. The Community Center
Plan now being sponsored by the Highland Park
Recreation Commission is one of these outlets or
service to the community.”

Hospital Work

” URSE! NURSE! What you got in that bag?
N “Nurse! Help me paste this pitcher.” '
Yes, it is hospital time again and what fun we

are having. Sally says, “Gee, it’s fun in the hospi-

tal when we do things like this. How often do you
come? Will you be here tomorrow? What are you
going to make next week?”

Our program in the hospital includes stories, ‘
puppet shows,. sing songs, rhythm band, playing
the victrola and showing the children how to make
many things in handcraft, such as constructing
with paper, stringing macaroni, painting beads
and pictures, drawing, weaving, sewing, carving,
making yarn dolls, etc., etc., etc.

The number of children we reach through the
hospital ward is great, and we average from 3 to
16 a week. ‘

Many children are from the country. . . . Conse-e
quently, we cover a larger territory. There is quite I]
a reunion when I find some of our children from I
our boys’ and girls’ clubs or playgrounds.

The anticipation shown by children when I start '
unpacking my bag is very gratifying especially!
when they start clapping their hands and saying, 1
“Gee, that’s swell. May I make one for my baby ’
sister and brother, too P”

 

RECREATION I

 

DREAM AND PRODUCE 333

 
    
  
 

.4

' .-

National Federation of
' High School Athletic Associations

and National Basketball
Rules Committee

CO-SPONSORED BY '

wiEson

THE LAST WORD lN SPORTS

mo WHEATIES
"BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS"

   Usf  Re leased 1

Here’s a “skull” session 1946 style. Show your teams the latest
football—basketball rules and play situations illustrated in two
new oyyicz'al movies . . . "Football Up-to-Date” and “Basketball Up-
to-Date.” Your teams should have the benefit of these films. Note
methods of distribution listed below.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, New York and other leading cities

 
    

(A Wilson & Co., lnc., subsidiary)

DISTRIBUTED IN 3 WAYS

'I By the state offices of High School Athletic Associations.

2 By the State University cooperating with the State Office of High School
Athletic Associations.

3 By A. A. Schabinger, Director, Official Sports Film Service, 7 South
Dearborn St., Chicago 3, Illinois, and through the YMCA Motion
Picture Bureau with offices in New York, Chicago, Dallas, San Francrsco.

 

lT’S WILSON TODAY, IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Well, it’s time to leave the h05pital now. I’m
afraid we’ll have to stop. “Just a minute till I
paste this. May I have a scissors? Quick'give me
the crayons. All right let me have everything.
Everybody happy?”

Chorus of voices, “Yes!”

“Well, then I must go. Goodby.”

“Goodby” and many times you can still hear

their goodby far down the corridor.

—Marie A. Vatter, Supervisor of Women’s and Girls’
Activities, Lancaster, Pennylvania, Recreation As-
sociation.

Dream—and Produce

(Continued from page 323)
In setting a stage for Gethsemane, a program by

’ another group, we built the set within a huge
’ picture frame 9’ x 12’. The frame was screened
with blue theatrical gauze and behind it we as-
sembled a~collection of platforms, a picnic table,
' boxes, pillows and even newspapers to give the
effect of rocky ground and the traditional shelf of
rock upon which Christ rests his arms while kneel-
ing to pray. To cover all this we had only an oute
‘. door drop, a woods scene. We draped it so that

I: SEPTEMBER 1946

the green suggested rough tufts of grass and the
brown and grey trunks and limbs stretched over
boxes looked unbelievably like rocks. Behind all
this we hung a second outdoor drop. Our stage
was merely one end of a gymnasium and we left
the handling of that back curtain to the custodian.
When I returned to the gym, a miracle had hap-
pened! To the custodian his job was to cover the
wall behind'the 9’ x 12’ frame with a 16 foot cur-
tain. Instead of dressing the curtain from the floor
he hung the top on a convenient rafter and turned
under the bottom. Result: Only the top half of the
trees and shrubs showed above the stony fore—
ground, giving you the illusion of standing on the
highest peak in the garden, overlooking the valley
below. Nothing “studied” could have been more
effective.

The stage set for The Juggler of Notre Dame
was a special snag, for several reasons. It must
look enough like a medieval church to be convinc-
ing. The script called for a choir loft. We doubted
the advisability of putting either an altar set for a
specific religious service, or the Virgin on the .
stage.

334 LETTERS TO THE WORLD -

The choir loft was easy. We used the platforms
again—arranged as risers—and altar rails from
Sunday services to hide as much of the risers as
possible. The platforms were heavy and would
have to go center stage or be balanced on the op-
posite side by the altar. I had my heart set on a
stained glass window in the center and we wanted
to avoid the altar. Then a friend of a friend sug-
gested “why not offset weight with light.” And
there it Was again. Someone handed us a gold
mine, adaptable to many situations. The finished
set showed the choir loft on the left, the stained-
glass window center (with soft lights from be—
hind), and a brilliant yellow glow off-stage right.
The off-stage glow was dimmed during Barnaby’s
dance to the Virgin. The “holy stream of light”
from a baby spot just off stage above the suggested
altar, took the place of the Virgin, who in the
original story, descended to Barnaby.

The more you work with a beautiful dream, the
more it inspires you. So, Barnaby fallen in a heap
in a pool of “holy light” brought out, first, a single
voice singing Ave Maria, then the theme picked up
by the entire cast as the curtains closed. The music
mellowed the climax into something that left you
able to face house lights as they came back on.

You Cannot Work Alone

It is wrong to suppose you’ll build your show
alone. But it will be under your inspiration and
your steam. The moment you begin to dream peo-
ple and things all about you become a part of that
_ dream or contribute to it. Ask a group to write a
play or build a show and they are very likely to
look at you blankly. Give them a glimpse of your
dream. You’ll inspire them and they will inspire
you. If you’ve built the right spirit in your group
they’ll want to be a part, any part, of the building
of that show. And although they may not know a
proscenium from an orange they’ll be there to help,
with ideas or with directed labor. You’ll be just as
happy as if you had a playwright and a scene-
wright, and your workers will have learned more
of intrinsic value in recreation through group trial
and error than through‘ a well organized course on
stagecraft with three semester hours credit. Of
course you’ll probably turn grey IO years before
your time, but you’ve helped ordinary people to
build a thing of beauty that is far greater than any
one single individual in the group could hope to
‘ achieve, and you will have the personal satisfaction
of creation.

Letters to the World

(Continued from page 311)

Now and then, for a holiday or special event, a
party is planned. On two successful evenings there
was a popcorn and wiener sale. The director is
one of those persons who is always looking out for
a new idea, or finding something different for the
group. He borrowed a movie projector one eve-
ning, rented a film—and the show was on.

The community is planning a spring carnival in
the next .few weeks. Then everyone will turn out,
and it will be a real family affair. More and more
the community is becoming unified and interested
in the other families and individuals near them.
And the pivotal point is the Teen-Age Center—
and the school building. The attendance Wednes-
day nights has jumped from about 55 to over 285.
The registration of members is now. well over 300.
That is for just one section of the city, too. There
are about eight more centers open, some one night,
others for two evenings each week.

We’ve just scratched the surface of what can be
done, and what we hope to do in the future. But
the results are the most gratifying you can imagine.
So, if your mind is made up to go to the seashore
this summer (and it’s a grand idea) please do a
bit of browsing around first and get an inkling of,
what your town would like in the way of teen-age
centers next fall. Then put on your thinking cap

.and come forth with some good tangible ideas to

offer them. Just try it once and you’ll be sold

'yourself. There’s plenty of fun involved, too!

Best to you,
AGNES DE PUY SMITH,
Supervisor of Recreation C enters

Antidote to Loneliness
(Continued from page 303)

Those first months of the existence of the El-
derly Club, known today as the Wednesday After-
noon Club, were experimental. The group was
fortunate in having the volunteer leadership of a
charming lady whose tact and social grace created
an atmosphere of ease and hospitality. She en- ,.
couraged music and poetry and endeavored to give
each person present a chance to take some part in 
the conversation or entertainment. Naturally 
there were conflicting interests and opinions.
There was the question of playing games—an ac-
tivity popular with a few but considered almost
as an insult to their dignity by others. Some of

the women were in favor of rolling bandages for a

\
RECREATION

ANTIDOTE TO LONELINESS 335

r., 00W A4/5’5 fi/S
" Dow/é Im / '

The I946 editions of the
Famous Slugger Yearbook
and ihe H 8: B Official Sofi-
ball Rules are still available.
Free copies will be supplied
to your ieam members.
Simply sia’re how many of
each you require. addressing
Deparimem‘ R.

  
    
 
      
   
   
   
 
      

 

-HILI.ER|0H & BnAnst '00

l
l

LOUISVILLE 2, KENTUCKY

 

the hospitals, others preferred to knit and talk. As
time went on the pleasure of the majority ruled.
It became clear that what these people wanted was

a two-fold opportunity for companionship and '

self-expression. Most members came regularly to
contribute to the afternoon’s entertainment by
music or song or story. There were several who
preferred to sit and listen but they seemed quite
content and joined in the conversation and refresh-
ments after the program was over. As news of the
club spread around the Quarter its membership
grew to 22 and some very fine talent was dis-
covered within its ranks.

In .1942 the agency gave up its old building in
the French Quarter. A wider program was plan-
ned, embracing after-school leadership throughout
the city.. Progress, however line and indispensable,
leaves in its wake some sadness. The last meeting
of the Wednesday Afternoon Club in the shabby
but beautiful reception rooms of the Center was a
sad one. They seemed to belong to this old man-
sion—these men and women whose years had been

SEPTEMBER 1946

parallel to'its own. They parted from it sorrow- _
fully as from another friend whom they were to
lose along the way.

A New Home

The new Director of the Orleans Neighborhood
Centers was very interested in the elderly people’s
club and anxious that it should carry on as before.
But the problem of where the meetings could be
held was quite a formidable one. Because of the
advanced age of the majority of the club members
it was necessary to have a place within short walk-
ing distance of their homes. It seemed almost im-
possible to find a suitable place in the French
Quarter until the School Board came to the rescue
with the offer of the use of the several rooms con-
nected with the Cabrini Playgrounds. The only
stipulation was that they be vacated by three
o’clock when the children are dismissed from
school. The rooms are equipped with everything
for the comfort and convenience of the club—a
piano, chairs, tables, and a well set up kitchen. It
was not long before the group was enjoying their

336 SCHOOL FORESTS IN WISCONSIN

new and more modern meeting place even more
than the original one. They looked forward with

pleasure to their afternoons together, preparing
during the week their contributions to the enter-
tainment. They will brave cold weather or a down-

pour of rain to be present.

Poetically speaking, old age is a time of peace

and serenity when we bask in the mellow glow of ~
Autumn sunlight. The fears and uncertainties of '

childhood, the passionate yearnings of youth and
the responsibilities of adult life are over and we sit
quietly in our comfortable r0cking chairs, superior
in our wisdom and secure in the love and protec-
tion of our posterity. Realistically though, we
know that old age is more likely to be a time of
~ loneliness and heartache. Relatives, though per-
haps kind and dutiful, are engrossed in their own
lives. Friends have departed. Infirmities prohibits
so many former pleasures. When poverty is an
added burden the hours are indeed empty and the
heart sad. It was to bring a little warmth and
gladness to these lonely years that the Wednesday
Afternoon Club was organized and surely it has
justified its existence.

School Forests in Wisconsin
' f C ontimwd from page 314)

nized place in our educational system. A great
many of the schools now include lessons on con-
servation of the natural resources in their teachings
because of the broad educational and cultural
value. More than 1,000 schools have acquired
land on which they have established school forests.
These are used as laboratories in which the train—
ing and educational background of the children
are enriched through practical associations with
nature. Many of these forests were planted by boys
who are'now fighting overseas. Whether so dedi-
cated or not these'pines are today living reminders
of the boys. The schools will honor themselves if
they dedicate their forests as perpetual memorials
to their soldier boy alumni. And what could be
more appr0priate than that 10,000 more schools
throughout the land establish forests as memorials
to the boys who offered their lives to preserve
the democratic way of life, and that these me—
morial forests be dedicated to the work of training
new generations of school children to the task of
maintaining this democracy.”-——From Division of
State Forestry, Forest Service, U. S. Department
of Agriculture. I

Boy Tells Why His
Dadisldeal

LOGICAL-MINDED 8-year-old yesterday gave
The Post’s Ideal Father Editor nine reasons
“Why I have the best daddy in the world.”

They are :

“He loves me.

“He buys me nice things to eat and play with.
“He plays football with me and the other lboys.
“He lets me help him with his“ work.

“He reads me stories when I am sick in bed and at
other times, too.

“He is my best friend I ever 'had.

“He works to make money for our living.
“He does not get angry fast. I
“He helps .me with my lessons.”

—Reprinted by permission from
The Washington Post, June 7, 1946.

 

Recreation Area Maintenance
(Continued from page 324)

Therefore, we should be very liberal in our ex-
penditures and preparations for apparatus, fur-
nishings and equipment on certain projects for
recreation. In my opinion this is the heart of the
recreation program. This work is yet in its infancy
and its future expansion and successful develop-
ment depends on you and me as park department
workers.

Maintenance of Equipment

I am becoming more and more conscious of my
responsibility to the recreation directors of these
activities. In certain ways the directors and .super—
visors are dependention the maintenance division *
for the prompt installation and for the most at-
tractive and interesting arrangement of the fur--
nishings or apparatus. For the maintenance of
recreation equipment we must consider more than
just the life expectancy of the apparatus. '

Apparatus must be kept perfectly safe at all
times. There is no middle ground and no tolerance
should be allowed where safety is concerned. A
machine is either safe or it is dangerous.

‘You should consider the general utility of the
apparatus and add any special attraction that may
create enthusiastic interest. This will certainly in-
clude one or two coats of paint each year to main-
tain an attractive appearance.

RECREATION

RECREATION AND MAINTENANCE 337

'gui/c! your
Recreation Library!

0 Do you have on~ your
shelf. these first aid supplies
for the recreation program?

Conduct of School Community

Centers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$ .50
Rural Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
Recreation and the Church. . . . . .50

Recreation for Industrial Workers .50

The ABC’s of Public Relations

in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
RECREATION Magazine, per year 3.00

Send your order. to

THE NATIONAL JRECREAT ION

ASSOCIATION

3|5 FOURTH AVENUE
_ New York IO. N. Y.

The maintenance of a structure costs a great
deal more per unit than the same unit would cost
at the time the building was constructed. This is
due to the time required in collecting the necessary
materials for the small job, to the time required to
travel to and from the job and to the transporta—
tion cost of getting men and materials to and from
the job. There you have three extra—operational
costs to add to the actual labor and material costs.
For'example, the replacement of a single window
pane may cost 10 times more for the extra costs
than for the actual price of replacing the glass.

Permanent materials and good workmanship
should cut the final cost of maintenance. Our
bridges in Dallas‘ parks haVe been'replaced with
steel and concrete. This applies to truck bridges
and foot bridges. Tubular steel framing is also
used for our picnic tables, ping-pong tables and
indoor tables, speed bag racks, life guard stands,
backstops and semi-portable bleachers, iioodlight
poles as well as many other items. The arc-welding
umachine and the acetylene torch are now indis-
pensable. USe them on your major construction
projects as well as for minor repairs.

. SEPTEMBER 1946

 

  
 

  

' Pioneering Today's POPULAR

T-R-A- M-P-O-L-I-N-E

and NOW
N I S S E FIRST NAME
in TRAMPOLINING
presents the

1947 glam/old TRAMPDLINE

Folds in a JIFFY, compact
and foolproof against gym wall.

LIGHTER - STURDIER - EASY TO MOVE

0 Even before Pearl Harbor. Educators. Physical
Directors. Recreation Officials found the workout

ioy plus Mind—Body Building value of the

NISSEN — Original — TRAMPOLINE ..

0 Thousands in ARMY. NAVY. AIR CORPS trained

on the

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

Write for FREE Literature
200 A Avenue. N'.W.

    
     
     
           
   
       
     
   

Cedar Rapids. Iowa

   

  

Safety and Prevention

Safety work for prevention of accidents on your
parks is of great importance for the public and also
for the park employees: This .work should be
given serious consideration by all divisions of a
park department; It will pay dividends, even
though you only consider the economic side of the
problem. Accidents are very expensive. Safety
work is something that you cannot put on and off

STORYLAND THEATRE
(Plays for Children)

A new touring professional company
The Princess and the Swineherd

Adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen story
by Madge Miller

Dates available for Winter-Spring 1947
For information write

STORYLAND THEATRE. INC.

57 West 58th Street. New York 19. N. Y.

338

 

This kind of arithmetic _,
may put Johnny through college

of helping you educate your children as
you’d like to have them educated.

Here’s how it works out:

$3 put into U. 5. Savings Bonds today
will bring back $4 in 10 years.

Another $3 will bring back another $4.
So it’s quite right to figure that 3 plus
3 equals 8 . . . or 30 plus 30 equals 80
. . . or 300 plus 300 equals 800! "

It will . . . in U. S. Savings Bonds. And
those bonds may very well be the means

So keep on buying Savings Bonds—
available at banks and post offices. Or
the way that millions have found easiest “
and surest—through Payroll Savings.
Hold on to all you’ve bought.‘

You’ll be mighty glad you did . . .
10 years from now!

We ms 15!. WAK.. 30y M 30/10; mow/I wean SA mas

\
Contributed by this magazine in cooperation til

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service

 

 

RECREATIO]

l

l

THEY TOOK TO THE HILLS

like a cloak. It requires diligence and special
training. Safety work becomes contagious after
you attain a working knowledge of it. Educational
training on safety is very important. It is the most
;important factor for attaining effective results.
The next factor of importance is the intelligent
compilation and the use of statistics. If you have
recurring accidents and a high frequency rating as
indicated by accurate records you will try to do
something about it.

Preventive .Ma-intenance is a term used to a

. considerable extent during the late war. If pro-

‘ perly applied, there is no system of maintenance
' that will beat it. Some, however, were inclined to'

go to extremes in their application. For example,
in a machine shop, you cannot keep an electric
power tool continuously on the bench for inspec~
tion and repairs. Neither should you wait 30 days
to make a periodical inspection. There must be a
happy'medium somewhere between the two. You
cannot prevent deterioration. Then we must find
the most practical and effective ways and means of
continuous inspection for necessary repairs. Now,
this is the way that I would prefer to apply pre-
ventive maintenance and here is the thought that
I want you to get. If we, as a body of park and
recreation department workers, including every
division, are sufficiently diligent in our observa-
tions and inspections, there should not be any
serious accidents such as failures of bleachers and
grandstands, or gas explosions, as we remember in
New London, Texas and in New Orleans.

They Took to the Hills

(Continued from page 306)

brings you to a Utopia of cool temperatures and
breezes. It is a natural spot for a summer camp.

Scout Troop 142 of Moscow, sponsored by the
Moscow Christian Church, constructed this spring
a semi-permanent wilderness camp on one of the
three ridges in the area.

The Lodge

In April, work got under way on the construc-

tion of Sun-Crest Lodge. The lodge or log cabin
is to be 28’ by 40’._. The first story will have three
rooms with a fireplace in the recreation hall. In
addition there will be a kitchen. The dining room
will serve various purposes. It will be the office
while the lodge is being used as a camp, a dining
room, a class room, or in case of any emergency, a
first aid room or hospital.

SEPTEMBER 1946

339

 

“National Mats are Absolutely Safe”

says John J. Walsh, famous U. of Wisconsin

boxing coach

"Few coaches realize the hidden danger in poor quality
mats. Many use “punched” felts made by the less costly
method of using fine steel needles to
agitate and compress it. These needles
break off in the felt, work to the surface
and are a definite hazard to cause in-
fections, cuts and scratches. No needles
are used to make genuine iim-flex layer
felt used in National Mats. It is com-
pressed by the latent process which is
guaranteed 100% safe."

  
 
 
   
   
  

Send for further details on mats,
boxing rings, training bags, etc.

  

NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.

365 MARQUETTE - o - FOND DU lAC. WSSCONSIN

The porch will be screened in for sleeping and
the lodge will then be able to accommodate up to
60 people. An outside entrance—by ladder to the
second story—will admit occupants to the second
floor. Here therewill be permanent sleeping ac-
commodations for 20 people and temporary ac-
commodations for 40.

The lodge will be used for meetings, as a base
camp for winter and summer sports, as home after
a day’s hiking, and as shelter from storm. It will
be built of‘logs and shakes with the fireplace of
natural stone.

The year—round spring has a sufficient supply of

pure water, even during the summer months, to

accommodate 150 people easily. The development
of the property will involve a pump to forceathe
water to the top of the hill. R.E.A. electric lines
are within 100 yards of the property and telephone

lines are within 200 yards.
The area and facilities will be available for all

phases of youth activities to participating churches.
Student groups of other churches will be invited

to share in facilities on proper occasions.

340

Play for the Pre-School Child

(Continued from page 307)

ing,‘ also have opportunities for observation and
participation. The purpose is not so much to edu-
cate them for parenthood as to add to their under—
standing of home and community relationships.
These play groups generally meet in the public
schools or on adjoining playgrounds, but frequently
they meet at other appropriate centers. As these
services are extended to rural areas, a farm home
will be at times the most convenient place. The

important aspect is that the public school is recog-i

nizing its concern and responsibility and is fur-
nishing professional guidance. . . .

Kindergarten

The kindergarten—like the nursery school—-
emphasizes health, work, play, security, adventure,
friendship and love. From the days of its earliest
introduction, the kindergarten has made much use
of music, singing, rhythms and dramatizing. The
work and play are both individual and group, both
indOors and out. . . .

Grouping of Children

Children of three to live years are changing
rapidly. It is wise, where numbers permit, to plan
separate groups for the three-to-four-year—olds and
fon the four—to iive-year-old children. The separa—
tion of children into groups for the greater part of
the day will tend to reduce fatigue. Young chil—
dren attain better motor coordination in small
groups. They are interested in cooperative play
in small groups. As a general procedure, the
younger the children, the smaller should be the
group. In grouping children, age is not, however,
the only factor to be considered. Some children
over four years of age are small and will do better
with the younger group. Other children even
before they reach four years of age are physically
well developed. They know how to look after them-
selves. They want and need social activity with
older children. Such children belong in the older
age group. In short, individual differences and
development should determine the grouping. In
general, there should be one teacher for every
twelve to fifteen children in the three-year-old
group and a teacher for every fifteen to eighteen
children in the four-year-old group. . . .

Everyday Activities
Play and work periods are provided both in-
doors and out. Children experiment with clay,

PLAY FOR THE PRE—SCHOOL CHILD

paints, and crayons. They use simple tools with

wood. They build with blocks. They plan and 1
listen to the phonograph. They look at books and ‘

pictures. The teacher introduces them to stories
and poems. They dance. They dramatize. They
have explorations into the wonderland of nature
and science. They make trips to local stores, near-
by farms, and other places. Their speech and
language power develop; they talk interestingly,
for they have experiences to talk about and some-
one to listen. Should speech defects develop, the
children have the advantage of skilled guidance
that can assist parents as well as child through a
difficult period. The children learn how to behave
as participating members of a democratic group.
They learn about persons and things. They ex-
perience the place of nature, science, books, music,
and the crafts in the pattern of total living. . . .

The Community and Educational Planning

With young children from three years old to
live there is a natural joy in color, music, inven-
tiveness, dramatic play, and construction. Unless
an adult has blocked a child’s expression in the
creative arts through unwise criticism, a child of
this age will delight in expressive opportunities.
At iive years he will enjoy also the intuitive work
of other children. Children from three to live
probably will ordinarily not get this rich experi-
ence with the symbolic arts in anything like the
same degree except through school groups. To
have fun with music the child needs other children
of his own age as fellow members of the band or
as companions in singing. Dramatic play is a
group as well as an individual enterprise. Oppor-
tunities in the graphic and plastic arts are not

found in the typical home. The child needs a :

chance to enjoy the work of his peers and to have

hls work enloyed- - ' -—These excerpts from Educa-
tional Services for Young Children, published 'by the
Educational Policies Commission, 1201 16th Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D. C., are reprinted by permission.

On the Record

(Continued from page 320)

“The Recreation Department,. Memphis Park
Commission is indebted to the National Recrea-
tion Association for suggestions and ideas from
the RECREATION Magazine and the Summer Play-
ground Notebook.”

Recreation Department, Memphis
Tennessee, Park Commision

RECREATION

Recreation Versus Juvenile

Delinquency
(Continued from page 313)

of the sIst Annual Convention of the American
Association for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation in St. Louis, hit the planning phase
when they talked of gymnasia that. may be used
for physical education activities by day and then
‘ locked off from the rest of the school and used for
. recreation after school, eliminating traffic through
the school to use drinking fountains, lockers, show-
' ers, toilet facilities, and the like.

The proposed new swimming pools that can be
converted from indoor to outdoor by a sliding
I roof, or from school pools to recreation pools by
entrances to pool and locker facilities from both
I the school and the street, will do much to increase
the national emphasis on swimming as a major
recreation activity. If schqol and recreation of-
licials will begin buying their equipment for the

‘ or the physical education department, both pro-
grams will do more for the child. I believe many
of us are familiar with this situation. A boy is
taught apparatus work or football in class. At the
close of school the- physical education teacher, ac—
cording to current practices, locks up his horse,
buck or football. The boy, going to the playground
after school in the same building, would like to do
more apparatus work or play football but cannot
because the recreation worker is not permitted to
use the apparatus or the football that the boy’s
parents through taxes helped to buy. Or, in re-
.verse, we see many examples of badminton,
shuffleboard or archery on the playground but
when the boy asks his physical education teacher
to teach him more of the skills used in these

- activities the equipment is not available for school
use.

It shouldn’t be impossible tonset up a checking

system with but little effort so that certain equip-

! ment could be interchangeable between depart-

: ments in the school. This is purely a problem of

" mechanics. In any event, let the child use what he

, needs, regardless of which agency or department
 purchased it.

i What has this to do with decreasing juvenile
- delinquency? Just this. Make the recreation pro-
: grams so interesting that young people will want to
, follow their natural urges of play, free expression,
competition and gregariousness. We know boys
and girls like to dance. Let’s have juke boxes on

‘. SEPTEMBER 1946

   
  
   

RECREATION VERSUS JUVENILE DELINQUENCY

children instead of for the recreation department.

341

  

  

“"157” EQUIPMr“

I First Choice
for

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

o 0
Ir
7”! FINIST I” f”! IIEIDI
MANUFACIUIING COMPANY a 5!. tools 3. M0

  

playgrounds. Boys like to shoot pool. Let’s have
pool tables at recreation centers. "

Last but not least, let us remember that boys
and girls like to talk and associate with each other
for the sheer joy of companionship. Instead of
leaving this to the haphazard street-corner meet-
ing, it would be well to provide well-lighted sitting
rooms where the youngsters may sit and talk and
get this gregarious recreation under wholesome
and pleasant surroundings.

When we attack these problems with an attitude
of realism and not sentimentalism and provide
those activities that are wholesome and appealing,
then and not till then will we defeat the problem
of juvenile delinquency.

The Friendly Hearth

(Continued from page 321)

town on the study and survey which preceded the
beginning of the House and to have some part now
and then in the developments that have taken place.
there through the years. —— Adapted from The
Friendly Hearth, published by the Moorestown
Community House on its twentieth anniversary.

   
 
   
 

      
 
 

.1.

ivery Sport!

     

Wm

 

  

342

Many new titles on the
way; write today for lists!

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .5150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIDIPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson . . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
CLAY MODELING, by R. R. Fiore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL FASIIION SKETCHES, byCharlotte II.Young 1.00
FIGURE DRAWING WITHOUT A MODEL, by Cliff Young 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00

WORKING IN LEATHER, by Margaret Iekis . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL HOME DECORATING, by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

FUNDAMENTALS OF WOODWORKING,
by Harry C. Helfman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East llth Street ' New York 3, N. Y.

 

Suggested Activities for a
Photography Club

(Continued from page 316)

to allow for adjustment to the local need. Many of
the details concerning procedure and technical de-
tails have not been mentioned, for they are familiar

to the club sponsor.

An anlysis of the sequence of activities listed
will reveal the psychology of maintaining a con-
tinuous interest necessary in working With ado-
lescents. At this age a systematic study of the
technical aspects of photography is not the need.
Rather, it is ample exploration of the field of pho-
tography in satisfying an immediate curiosity.
This may be the beginning of a life-long hobby
necessary to emotional stabilization in an increas-
ingly more complex and fast moving society. It
may even be the germ of a vocation.

' In the words of the Educational Policies Com-
mission in its Purposes of Education in American
Democracy, “after all it is only through individual
growth that social progress can take place.” The

NOW OFF THE PRESS!

Now Off the Press! . i

EVISIONS OF THREE National Recreation Asso-
R ciation publications mark the return to thinking
about the fall and winter recreation program. The
three booklets have been completely rewritten, new
material has been added and old material has been
brought up to-date.

In revising. Conduct of Community Centers the
growing interest in the use of school buildings as
community centers has been emphasized as the
point of departure. This emphasis is shown in the
addition of the word school to the title. The re-
vised version is called Conduct of chool C ommu-
nity Centers and is priced at 50 cents. It is divided
into sections on organization facilities, equipment;
administrative policies and staff; program of the
individual center. Rural Recreation (75 cents)
and Training of Playground Leaders (50 cents)
have been similarly revised and brought up to date.

Ghoulies and Ghosties!
(Continued from page 302)
different age groups. Outstanding among them was
a block dance for teen-agers and adults.

A street had been closed off by a road block
reading “Road closed for block dance.” Here re-
cordings of dance music were spread on the night
air for the feet of the dancers. Jitter-bugging teen-
agers from Pittstield and even from communities
in other States vied with one another—as did
many waltzing couples—for honors in the dance.

In other parts of the city there were other kinds
of parties for the younger fry. There were movies
and contests and just plain parties. Contests for
the best jack—o’-lantern made by a child under
eight years, the best tin pan band and the most
attractively decorated home drew fewer contest-
ants than had been anticipated—probably because
they were brand new ideas. _

The over—all program was an unqualified suc—
cess. Probably much of the decrease in Halloween
vandalism was due to the close cooperation between
many city organizations, both public and private—
the Municipal Park and Recreation Department as
chief promoter, labor groups, civic and service
clubs, P.T.A., public and parochial schools, Camp
Fire Girls, girls’ and boys’ clubs, Police Depart-r
ment—a cooperation which was backed by careful
planning and thinking for weeks before the event.

club program fills a definite need in contributing
to pupil mental, physical, social, and spiritual
growth. I

RECREATION

\

l

 

 

STUDENT UNION AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY 343

The First Comprehensive Book on an Organized

Plan for RV

- LEISURE
TIME

EDUCATION

A Handbook of Creative
Activities for Teachers

and Group Leaders

BY ANNA MAY JONES

Educational and Vocational Counselor
New York City Public Schools

Packed with practical materials for ready use,
this book is a complete guidance manual for all
who work with young people in teaching the art
of creative play and self-expression in leisure
time activity. The programs cover all the varied
fields, such as sports. crafts and shop work, the
arts, travel, social activities, community planning
and health education. Included are suggestions
for coordinating leisure time education with the
regular subjects of the curriculum and with com-
munity resources.

‘I cannot recommend it too highly. . . . There is
a bibliography of this subject covering more than
thirty pages. It is the most exhaustive and ef-
fective bibliography on the subject which I have
ever seen. It is worth the price of the book
itsel .”—-—Dr. Walter W. Howlett, Exec. Secy., The
Greater New York Coordinating Committee on
Released Time of Jews, Protestants and Roman

Catholics.

“This is of real value. The study represents
many years of research, eXperimentation, record-
ing and evaluation.”—James Hubert, Director,

New York Urban League.
$2.75 At your bookstore or from

HARPER G. BROTHERS, 49East33rd Street.NewYorl<|6.N.Y.

Student Union at Cornell University
(Continued from page 296)

the housing shortage its guest rooms and dormi—
tories are kept constantly crowded with alumni,
parents and friends, and every spare office room
of the building is in use as headquarters for one
or another college publication or activity.

_ Extremely popular are the indoor social games
:such as contract bridge, billiards and pocket bil-
liards, table tennis and chess, checkers and crib-
bage. Cornell has had more than its share of bil-
liard champions and two students are currently
the intercollegiate bridge titlists, but the popularity
of the indoor games is probably no greater at Cor-
nell than at other colleges. They are almost per-
fectly titted for the postwar campus. Most of them
take little equipment and all can be played in-
formally or can be organized into leagues or tour—
naments with minimum direction.

The Intercollege Bridge Tournament is one of
several very successful attempts to bring more or
less formal competition to the indoor social games
of bridge, cribbage, chess, checkers, table tennis,
billiards, and pocket billiards. The Bridge Tour-
nament, in which 43 eastern colleges and universi-
ties competed, comprised a mail elimination followed

. SEPTEMBER 1946

by a {inal I6-pair competition in New York City.
Next year the tournament may become national,
with a field three or four times as large.

Against the background of such more or less
“dc-emphasized” recreation, the main business of
the American college is going at a more strenuous
pace than perhaps ever before in our history. Some
indication of how seriously the returned soldier
looks upon his job was shown in a New York
Times survey published last spring.

At such widely separate institutions as Colum-
bia, Harvard, Ohio University, and the University
of Kentucky, Mr, Benjamin Fine of the Times
wrote on March 17 that veterans are displaying a
remarkable scholastic aptitude, indicative of a na-
tion-wide trend. The returned servicemen at
Columbia, he reported, are better students than
their non-veteran classmates—at the last marking
period, not a single veteran was in serious aca-
demic difficulty.

From Mr. Fine’s report, it would seem that the
veteran is most certainly not going to college just
for the fun of it. When spare hours do appear
now and then, he will welcome them like any other
young man, but for recreation he wants something
a bit more serious and adult than freshman cap-

burning.

  

American Foundations for

Social Welfare

By Shelby M. Harrison and F. Emerson Andrews. Rus-
sell Sage Foundation, New York. $2.

FOR MANY YEARS the Russell Sage Foundation ‘has kept

available to the 'public up-to~date directories of
American foundations. The present volume represents
the revision Of the 1938 issue of the directory. To the
customary listing and 'description' Of the foundations,
however, has been added a more general section devoted
to a study of the history Of foundations in America and
of other matters relating to them of interest to the
general public.

The Ditty Bag

Compiled by Janet 'E. Tobitt. Janet E. Tobitt, 228 East
43rd Street, New York 17, New York. $.75.

AGOOD SONG COLLECTION is an event. This one seems

especially line. There are 177 songs (words and
music) plus a section of “Notes for Song Leaders.” The
songs are divided into five categories, Folk Songs of the
Americas, Folk Songs Of 'Other Lands, Rounds and
Canons, Hymns and Carols, Art Songs. Recommended.

Building the Small Boat

By$  Bradley. Tihe Macmillan Company, New York.
1. .

OULD YOU LIKE TO BUILD a small boat? Here’s advice
from an expert—advice and plans and specifications
for making four Iboats ranging from a 12’-0” iishing
skiff tO an 18’ - 0” s-porter. There are many careful illus-

trations drawn to scale and pages of information about
materials and processes.

Flags of All Nations

By Cleveland H. Smith and Gertrude A. Taylor. Thomas
Y. Crowell Company, New York. -$2.50.

HE RECREATION LEADER will lind valuable program aids
in this book. As its title indicates the flags of all the
living—and many dead—nations are its subject matter.
Each flag is clearly pictured in color and its history is

given—at greater or less length, as the circumstances and
the fact warant.

Let's Enjoy Living Today

By Joseph B. Hutchinson. The ChristOpher Publishing
House, Boston. $2.50.

THE AUTHOR of what is described on the dust jacket as
“a guide to creative living" is concerned about the
unsatisfactory attitude toward life he linds in many of

the people he comes in contact with. His book contains
his suggestions for a method of enjoying living.

344

New Publications in the Leisure Time Feld

 

Esquire's I946 Jazz Book

Editedby Paul 'Eduard Miller. A. S. Barnes 8': Company,
New York. $2. '

THERE ARE ‘STILL, of course, some people who continue

to look down their classical noses at that musical
form knov‘vn as jazz. If you belong in this group you
will not Ibe interested in this volume. But to those thous-
ands of others (especially the youngsters)—the record
collectOrs, the dancers, the far-into«the-night-arguers
about the relative performances of Benny Carter and
Johnny Hodges on the alto sax—the 1946 Jazz Boqk will
be welcomed gleefully. It is, incidentally, a good book
for the recreation book shelf.

Secrets ot'Magic
By Merlin Swift. Franklin Watts, Inc., New York. $1.

A HERE’S A GOOD BOOK for a program planner to have

around. It explains for the reader the tricks in many
kinds of “magic” and sleight-Of-hand stunts. Very little
equipment is needed Ibeyond things that are at hand or|
easily come by. The book will be helpful in planning en-
tertainments or in club work. l

Youth and Jobs in Canada

Bruce Humphries, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts. $2.

|N CONSIDERATION of the special problems of young peo—
ple in relation to jobs in the Canada of the present,

the past and the future, this book was prepared ifor the

Canadian Youth Commission. Sections on vocational

guidance and community planning will be Of especial in—

terest to recreation workers.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HowARD BRAUCHER, President
{El-IN G. WINANT, First Vice-President
Rs. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice—President and Secretary of the Board

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
H. P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, F itchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tuscon, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUs T. KIRBY,‘ New York, N. Y.

SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLI KEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
I: C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

‘REDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

