 

Recreation Workers Thank God for

Faith in Man Himself
November 28, 1946

RECREATION WORKERS know there is much for which to give thanks.

Perhaps recreation workers next to religious workers have opportunity to see
what men want, what men think, what 18 the heart’s desire. In the light of this special
knowledge, recreation workers thank God for reasoned faith in man himself.

In an after-war period man’s frailties stand out as at no other time. There is much
to dishearten.

Yet among all the people of the world there is a strong will to live, to live well, to
live as men should—Victoriously. "

The drive to hear music, to see and live drama, to enjoy the beauty of the world,
. to flnd restoration of the ,spirit in the woods, to secure a fierce satisfaction in competi—
tive sport—all this is strong enough to make men willing to forego lesser pleasures for

what'they regard as more important.

Nor is any such statement complete without recording the greater reaching out for
religious expression, the desire to give oneself to something greater than oneself.

In this Thanksgiving month of 1946 We see such a measure of faith in humanity
among people everywhere as to believe that men are willing to give up enough to make
possible the maintenance of a minimum of world government to enable disputes be-
tween nations to be settled through world organization rather than through wars

between nations.

The' will to live and live well is strong enough to make world suicide through
continual world wars unthinkable.

Yet in these days men must live in part by faith. There has, however, been enough
of greatness through the ages to give a reasoned bas1s for this faith.

Man sees that in many respects conditions are now better even than they were in the
so-called Golden Age. Progress there has been, even though sometimes slowly.

Great souls have lived. We see greatness of spirit in children on the playground.

' Daily we find ourselves exposed to greatness of spirit, and we recall all of greatness. that
has been recorded in history and literature. We see what lesser men have achieved

because they were exposed to greatness.

In this hour particularly there is,need that it shall be an hour of faith. We have

slender machinery for cooperation among the peoples of this earth, and it is only as
faith is added to many other things that we can hope as we want to hope for thls world

in which we live.

Despite all of evil that is and that has been recorded, there is enough of good so that
there is reasonable ground for hope, for faith in the common people the world over
and in what they will support and will help to achieve in bu1ld1ng a world that 18 livable.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

NOVEMBER I946

 

401

 

 

Certificates of Achievement

On September 20, 1946, Rear Admiral Monroe Kelly, USN, Commandant of the Third Naval
District, on behalf of the United States Navy presented Certificates of Achievement to the National
Recreation Association and to the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company for the part played by those
two organizations in support of the Navy’s welfare and recreation program during World War II.
The citations accompanying the awards read as fol'ows‘:

Citation to National Recreation Association

NEVER BEFORE in history have so many people
appreciated so fully the human need served
by recreation.

This effective use of recreation by all types of
agencies, government and private, is in a large
measure due to the statesmanlike leadership _and
cooperative non-institutional service rendered
through the years to all groups by the National
Recreation Association.

The United States Navy is happy to recognize
the outstanding services rendered naval personnel

(Continued on page 444)

NOVEMBER 1946

Citation to Firestone Tire and Rubber Co.

HE PRODUCTION RECORD, of American industry

in World War II is well known. Other ser-
vices rendered by some of the nation's leading
corporations are not. so well known though they
contributed considerably to the winning of the war.

The United States Navy, ever mindful of the
highest welfare of its personnel, is especially grate-
ful to the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company
not only for its fine production record during the
war but also for its vision and generosity in shar-
ing in the Navy’s welfare and recreation program.

( Continued on page 440)

403

The Recreation Movement in America

HE RECREATION MOVEMENT in America which
Tit is the privilege and obligation of the Na:

tional Recreation Association to help bring to
every community in the United States is a pro—
gram so rich, so broad and so limitless in its op—
portunities that it is difficult to appreciate the ex-
tent and fullness of it. Its ideals and its objectives
are much concerned with life itself—with what
people are, what they can be and what they will be.

Not Children Alone

The program concerns itself not alone with little
children, or adolescent boys and girls, or any
special group. If the National Recreation Asso—
ciation is to make its largest contribution to Ameri-
can life it must meet the problems of the small
children, of adolescent boys and girls, of young
men and of young women, and of adult men and
women. It is concerned with all these age groups,
not only as groups but in the leisure time prob—'
lems arising from the life relationships of these
groups one with another. In addition to age and

sex groups, all religious, national and racial groups -

should be served by the program.

Not Big Cities Only

Too often recreation problems are thought of as
problems of the larger centers of population—as
a problem of safe play spaces for the children of
the cities, as a problem of welfare activity for the
industrial worker, as a problem of this or that for
that or this group. It is a problem of all people
in all communities, whether large cities, small
cities, small towns or rural districts.

American Life Must Come Before
American Machinery

A comprehensive recreation program for Ameri-
ca should do one thing above all—make American
civilization a living thing. America must not be
the servant of the machines of its inventive genius.
It must be the master of these machines and secure
from them the leisure, the free time, to permit it
to live fully, to live happily and to live intelligently.

Objectives

To achieve this larger purpose certain definite
objectives can be determined. Health and safety
for children are fundamental, and health and safety

404

must be preserved through the normal span of life.
Mental and emotional maturity should be de—
veloped. The child needs help to grow as he plays.
As he goes through life the adult should be pro—
vided with continued opportunities for develop-
ment of which he can avail himself in his free

time—that time which he is not required to give .

.to the bare earning of a living, to securing the

bread and butter of life. Recreation is essential to
a full life.

Recreation contributes to character growth. It
makes for good citizenship. It leads to happiness,
an objective most difficult to determine, and yet
one without which the.ultimate ideal cannot be
approached. Events by themselves do not bring
happiness. This ideal is achieved through satis—
fying personal growth. '

What better contribution can be made to Ameri—
can life than a society of healthy, happy; intelli—
gent, social individuals?

Man grows by doing. In‘ his working time he
rarely, if ever, does those things which he likes most
to do. It is in the time which he has at his own
diSposal, his spare time, that he does those things
which are developing his personality. Because his
likes and dislikes are formed in childhood and
youth, he should be given opportunities in those
formative years to have experiences which build
for right choices in later life. He should have in
later life opportunities for wholesome choices if he
is not to choose more and more those leisure time
activities which are so freely offered by those
whose sole purpose is to exploit, for personal gain,
his desires for self-expression and release from the
toil and monotony of industry and the strain and
insecurity of economic struggle.

Program

As a nation we are not physically up to stand—
ard. We need a physical recreation program that
is designed to meet the needs of children, young
people, and adults of both sexes.

We need a.social recreation program that will
give full opportunity for normal social relation-
ships among boys and girls, young men and young
women, in the family circle, in the neighborhood
and in other natural groups. This program in-
cludes activities in music and rhythm to give the
opportunity for enjoyment and emotional releases

RECREATION

THE, RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 405

so undeniably attained through music. Such a pro-
gram extends to dramatic activity to give the op-
portunity for individual and social expression
along these lines.

We need an educational recreation program that

will insure the building of an intelligent citizen-
ship.

Forty Years of Service

Upon the National Recreation Association has
fallen the responsibility for guiding and directing
this tremendous effort. It has been active for more
than 40 years in carrying out this trust. _Unusual
progress has been made since the organization of
the Association in 1906. The movement has
reached national.proportions and the Association
faces a real problem in leadership.

Method

The Association does two things. It accumu—
lates knowledge and it disseminates knowledge.
It has a practical and comprehensive method and
machine to do these things and to do them well.

It has personal representatives working through-

out the country following all experiments, studies
and developments; it conducts its own experiments
and studies; and it maintains a central reservoir
for the recording of all facts and developments—a
complete recreation library.
_ It is through these channels—field visits, the
printed page, correspondence and personal consul-
tation—that all the accumulated knowledge of the
movement is made available to everybody and used
extensively and intelligently.

It works to develop in America a well-informed,
adequately trained personnel, professional and vol-
unteer, to lead the movement in the local commu-
nities into paths of greatest usefulness.

The Association gives of itself freely to other
organized groups. The recreation movement is a
program, a searching for an ideal and not a new
institution. It works through every possible chan-
nel available. It brings its knowledge to all groups:
to church and religious organizations, to civic
groups, to women’s organizations, to industrial and
commercial groups, to labor, to fraternal organi—
zations, to political groups, to cultural and educa-
tional interests.

Facilities
The recreation program of activities uses every

possible facility—and where facilities are not avail-
able, it secures them. It uses playgrounds, parks,

NOVEMBER 1946

 

Courtesy Reading, Pa., Recreation Department

school buildings, community houses, church build-
ings, museums, libraries, institutions, the home,
and all other centers where the community meets.
The movement helps in the extension of every
program, every activity that in any way aids in
the achievement of its objectives and its ideals.

A Worth-While Achievement

The task is tremendous—but it must be ac-
complished if America is to do its share to secure

a higher civilization.

Some Leisure Time Activities
I. The recreation movement provides for all age
groups:
Small children
Boys
Girls
Young women
Young men
Adult ivoan
Adult men

II. The recreation movement is a problem for all
communities :

Large cities

Small cities

Towns .
Rural districts

406

III. The recreation movement provides for a broad
program of activities:
Physical recreation
Music
Drama
Art
Educational and cultural recreation
Neighborhood organization
Social recreation
Individual recreation
Citizenship activities
Home and family recreation

IV. The recreation movement strives for a num—
ber of definite objectives:
Happiness
Personal growth
Health
Safety
Education and culture
Good citizenship

V. The recreation movement strives to meet the
need for recreation in all the different periods
of free time: '

Pre-school period

School recess periods

After school and high school hours

School va-
cation
time

VVorker§
vacation
periods

After work
hours

Holidays

Half - holi-
days

Evenings

VI. The recrea-
tion movement
uses existing
facilities and
secures addi-
tional needed
facilities:

Land

\Vater Areas

Buildings

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA

Playgrounds
Playfields

Parks—Municipal, County, State

and Federal

Beaches

Woods and forests
Streets

Backyards

Vacant lots

Lakes

Rivers
Ponds

School buildings

Libraries
Gymnasiums
Community houses
Auditoriums ‘
Halls

Museums

Club buildings
Church buildings

Institutions
Prison
Feeble-minded
Reformatories
Insane
Orphan asylums
Hospitals '
Homes

RECREATION

 

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 407

VII. The recreation movement is carried on with
the active help and cooperation of many or-
ganized groups:

Governmental and public bodies—Mu-
nicipal, County, State and Federal

School authorities and groups

Park authorities and groups

Church and religious organizations

Civic organizations

Social welfare agencies

Fraternal orders

Commercial and industrial groups

Labor groups

Women’s organizations

Nationality and racial groups and or-
ganizations

Recreation organizations

Music, drama and arts groups

Neighborhood associations

Social clubs

Veterans’ organizations

VIII. The recreation movement provides:

(A) Many and varied physical activities
Track and field athletics
Mass athletics
Baseball
Soccer
Football
Basketball (Men)

Nine court basketball (Women)
Captain basketball (Women)
Fieldball

Handball

Tennis

Cricket

Lacrosse

Boxing

Squash

Swimming

Hockey

Indoor baseball

Playground ball

Newcomb

Long ball

Pin ball

NOVEMBER 1946

End ball Roller skating
Punch ball Rope jumping
Relay games Coasting

Active playground games Bicycling

Free active play Horseback riding

Volley ball Boating and canoeing
Center ball Camping

Cage ball Fishing

Bowling Hunting

Golf Gymnastics

Walking and hiking Calisthenics

Ice skating

(B) Groups and facilities used to conduct physical
recreation activities:
I. Groups
School, high school and college groups
Park groups
Governmental and public groups
Municipal
County
State
Federal
Playground and recreation groups
Athletic organizations and groups
Industrial units
' Church and religious groups
Sunday school groups
Clubs '
Y.M.C.A., Y.\V.C.A., Boy and Girl Scout
groups
Nationality and racial groups and organi-
zations
Settlement groups
Institutional authorities
Prison
~ Reformatories
Hospitals
Orphan asylums
Feeble-minded
Health groups
Community house groups
Rural groups
Veterans’ organizations

2. Facilities
Playgrounds

408 THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA

Athletic fields ' Studies of special problems

Parks * Publication of guides, handbooks
Beaches Determination of standards of physical
Woods and forests achievement

Streets Determination of program standards

Water areas IX. The recreation movement provides:

SWImmmg P001S (A) Community drama activities:

Community houses
School buildings
Church buildings ; ' i

I. Elementary forms of dramatic expres—
sion leading to broader fields of com—

munity drama :

Settlements ' . Charades
Club bulldlngs Storytelling
Institutions .

Story-acting

Organization buildings Dramétic games

Y.M.C.A. .
A 2. Pantomime I
Y'W°C' ' 3. Drama principally for entertainments:
Scouts
Farces
(C) Service which the recreation movement gives Comedies
in the physical recreation field: Minstrel shows

I. Organization of committees or councils for 4° FOIk play makmg—to prOmOte Amen“

planning and administering physical rec— can £01k lore

reation __ 5. Pageantry

6. Drama with educational motive:
Thrift plays "
Historical plays

2. Collection and dissemination of. information
through field visits and correspondence on

Organization for physical recreation
, Health plays

Program planning _ M h l , I I
. . . . o o ica a s
Locating facilities yt g . p y
Better English plays
Playgrounds , ,
f: F Religious plays

 

Community centers ; . A . . t. I
, i mer can a n a 5
Athletic fields ' l 12 10 p y.

Tennis courts (B) Groups through which drama activities I

Golf courses

Camp sites
Securing new facilities
Building problems

Swimming pools '

Community houses

Shelter houses
Equipment problems

Choice of equipment

Placement

Surfacing

Fencing
Administration problems
Financial problems

 

are promoted:

Little theater groups

Community groups ‘

Settlements

American Legion posts

Schools and colleges

Churches

Sunday schools

Rural groups—Farm Bureaus,
Granges, Agricultural Extension

Departments

Organization groups
Y.M.C.A.
Y.W.C.A.

RECREATION I

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA

409

 

Scouts

Community house groups

Club groups

Institutions

Nationality and racial groups and organi—
zations

Libraries

Health groups

Governmental and public groups

Traveling theater groups

(c) Service in the drama field:

Organization of community drama councils

Organization of drama groups

Training of volunteers in drama

Encouragement and advice in play writing

Maintenance of information service through
correspondence and personal visit

Finding and selecting plays i

Work with publishers to secure publication
of needed material and plays

Drama publications

X. The recreation movement provides community
music activities, music groups, music service.
(A) Some music activities:

Community singing

NOVEMBER 1946

Community choruses

Community concerts and recitals

Public school music

Glee clubs
Orchestra and bands

Musical competition

Vocal
Instrumental

Music festivals
Toy symphonies
Ukelele ,playing
Harmonica playing

Easter music
Christmas music
Social music activities
Home music activities
Community opera.

Congregational singing
Music in community celebrations

Music in theaters

Music memory contests

Music weeks
Oratorios

410 THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA

(B) Groups and organizations
through which community

music is provided :

Schools

Parks

Government and public
groups

Churches

Sunday schools

Business groups

Luncheon clubs

Industrial units

Settlements

Neighborhood groups

Women’s groups

Home

Community house groups

Clubs

Rural organizations

Nationality and racial
groups and organiza-

 

I m
.’ ‘\ -. x ‘
N
‘ c . . ..‘\ _ 5
«cl _ r x a ’
$Ji'sé; wt... {hu‘mtt‘ ‘ ‘ 3" fat"; ‘1

 

tions _
Institutions H i Courtesy'CIIicago Park bist-rict
Prisons
Reformatories ' (A) Some creative, educational and cultural
Hospitals activities :,
Orphan asylums Constructive manual activities
Insane and feeble-minded asylums Sand box play
(C) Service which the recreationinovement gives Handcraft
. . . Basketry
in the community mu51c field:
0 O . . . Pottery
Ergiinizmg musical committees and groups Bead work
xc iange of information through corre- Carpentry
spondence and personal held Visits Toy making
Finding and selecting music Kites
V
Ocal Lanterns
Instrumental A-
- 1rplanes

Publication of suitable inexpensive song Paper work

sheets . . .
SeWing, knitting

Publication of music handbook, pamphlets Cooking and domestic science a-
\
I’

Training of volunteers in community music _ . .
i Motion pictures

Music library

Gardening
XI. The recreation movement provides creative, Nature activities
educational and cultural activities, facilities, Debating
groups. Forums

RECREATION

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 411

Public speaking - XII. The recreation movement provides activi-

Writing ties designed to promote good citizenship.
Literature, study and appreciation

Music '(see X)
Drama (see IX)

Art
Community art exhibits

Holiday celebrations
Festivals ‘
' Folk dancing, plays, stories
' Historical pageants
Citizenship classes
Painting Participation of immigrant groups and

individuals in normal community ac-
Rhythmic art tivities

Plastic art

Photography ' Building strong native citizenship through

. . . . . . service to and artici ati n i mu-
(B) Some faCilities used to carry on these activities: p p O H mm

nity-wide program

Museums
Art I Linguistic activities :
Natural history Reading ' 3
Libraries _ DFbatmg i
- Schools 2 Literature ,
Churches ‘ “mung .
Auditoriums Forufns . -
Halls Public speaking
settIementS ‘ Drama activities (see IX)
PIaygroundS Music activities (see X)

Community houses Education activities (see XI)

 

Parks XIII. The recreation movement provides social
Institutions ‘ recreation activities:
Clubs Wholesome mixed gatherings in
Homes
Church
(C) Some groups through which these activities School
are carried on : . Settlement 4
Library groups Community house
School groups Club
Women’s groups Home
Museum authorities Neighborhood and group picnics and
Church groups outings
Drama groups Social drama activities
Settlement groups . ' Social games
Park authorities Social music activities
Clubs Community celebrations
Family groups Holiday and special play celebrations
Playground groups Hobby clubs
Community house groups Reunions
Rural groups ‘ Parties
Nationality and racial groups Fun nights
Service groups (Continued on page 454)

NOVEMBER 1946

Recreation Guidance

learning “to give their best to

the world and to find the
deep satisfaction of a life richly and
fully lived.” To attain this objective they need
several kinds of guidance: Health Guidance to
enable them to grow up with strong, sturdy bodies,
good health habits and a health conscience for safe-
guarding the health of the community; Social
Guidance to enable them to find happy human re-
lationships, including all phases of family, school
and community relationships; Personal Guidance
to enable them to understand and live happily with
themselves; Curricular Guidance which leads them
into such experiences at school as are in harmony
with their interests and abilities; Occupational
Guidance which helps them to choose and enter
upon a suitable vocation; and Recreation Guid—
once which will enable them to find fulfillment of
their personality needs in a creative fashion.

6 LL BOYS AND GIRLS need help in

Why Recreation Guidance?

Recreation Guidance exists to help boys and
girls and men and women to find, in their leisure
time, satisfaction for their physical and personality
needs and to send them back to the responsibilities
and tasks of life with renewed energy and zest. In
other words, recreation has two functions—crea-
tive and re-creative.

Because recreation must meet an individual’s
personality needs it must be creative. Much pres-
ent-day recreation is too passive. We suffer, in
modern life, from the disease of
“spectatoritis.” True, in watch-
ing others perform on the ball
'field, the hockey rink or the movie
screen we do identify ourselves
with the players and thus get in-
direct satisfaction for our needs.
This, however, is usually a second
best to the satisfactions for our
personality needs which come
from active and creative forms of
recreation.

What needs should recreation
guidance help individuals to find
fulfillment for? Every human
being has five chief personality

412

By S. R. LAYCOCK

University of Saskatchewan
Saskafoon. Saskatchewan

needs: The need for achievement——
to do things, to make things and
to accomplish jobs. The need for
recognition—to feel that what one
does and is merits the approval of others. The
need for a sense of personal worth—to feel that
what one is and does comes up to one’s own inner
standards. The need for independence—reason—
ably to order one’s own life and make one’s own
decisions. The need for emotional security—to
live in reciprocal warm regard with one or more
human-beings and to feel that one is a desired and
desirable member of a group—family group, play
group, or neighborhood group.

All the above personality needs find abundant
fulfillment in creative forms of recreation. The
needs for achievement, recognition and self-esteem
find rich satisfaction through handcrafts, art, pho—
tography,‘dramatics, music and sports of all kinds.
Indeed because modern industry and modern
gadgets have reduced hosts of jobs to sheer rou-
tine, recreation provides for countless thousands
the only channel of outlet for the satisfaction of
these needs. Countless thousands more work at
jobs for which they are not fitted and in which
they have no interest. For them, too, satisfaction
for their needs for achievement, recognition and
self-esteem must come through creative recreation.
For children and adolescents play in its various
forms serves as a major outlet for these needs in

an age when 'they cannot share in the economic ac- .

tivities of their parents as they did in pioneer days.

‘ . 4 y (-.
we? .- .—p a..-
r1: *3.

w“

Courtesy Albany (California) City Schools

" RECREATION

‘—————"—_-

 

"s

 

RECREATION GUIDANCE 413

The need for independence
finds for vast numbers of people
a major outlet in recreation. Their
work gives them no scope for ini-
tiative and decision. They are
cogs in a machine. Sometimes
1 their home life is cramped also.
In either case they find in recrea-
tion a chance for initiative and
choice. It is often the only outlet
they have.

Family recreation is.one of the
finest ways of building emotional
security in the members of the
family. Sharing in hobbies and
games creates bonds of comrade-
ship and understanding which very often are built
Up in no other way.»

Recreation, then, is a personality-builder both
for children and adults. Its value is demonstrated
in mental and other hospitals where occupational
therapy is carefully used to bind together the scat-
tered threads of personality and to give patients
the strength which comes from finding satisfac-
tions for their personality needs. What occupa-
tional therapy does for the ill, recreation does in a
positive way for the well. Creative. recreation is
an essential part of any mental health program for
either children or adults.

Physical needs also are met by recreation. Every
individual has an urge to activity when he is well
and rested. This is satisfied by sports. In addi-
tion various forms of recreation serve as outlets
for sex tensions which do not always find ready
expression in our “society.

Who Gives Recreation Guidance?

Every child has four sets of teachers. First of
all there are his home teachers, who 'play a major
role in teaching him how to feel about himself,
how to act towards other people and what the re-
lationships between husband and wife, children
and parents, and brothers and sisters should be.
Second on the list are a child’s playiizate teachers,
who teach him things good and bad—to take his
turn at games, to play fair, or to lie and steal or
have unwholesonie sex attitudes. Indeed, in our
society, sex education has been left, for the most
part, in the hands of playmate teachers. Thirdly,
every child has community teachers, who greatly
affect his development for good or ill. They are

the church, the Sunday School, boys’ and girls’
clubs, Scouts, Guides, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., news-

NOVEMBER 1946

 

Courtesy Albany (California) City~5chools

papers, magazines, comics, movies (which do a
lion’s share of education for marriage), parks,
playing fields, basketball floors, hockey rinks, gym-
nasia, street advertising, street scenes, everyday
contacts with adults, bowling alleys, pool halls and
dance halls. Last of all there come on the scene a
child’s school teachers, who, when the child is five
or six years of age, begin to participate in his edu-
cation. They do not take it over.

A child’s different sets of teachers play varying
roles in many aspects of his education but there is
one in which they all have an important share—
recreation guidance. Each set of teachers helps or
hinders a child in the personality development
which should come from a wholesome program of
creative recreation.

Under the guidance of his home teachers play
becomes one of the chief avenues of learning for
any child. Through play the child comes to under-
stand himself, other people and the world of nat-
ural objects. Through play the child develops
motor skills, language and the ability to get along
with others. Play also provides the child with an
outlet for his hostile and aggressive impulses. It
is a safety valve. If he dislikes his older brother
he can, with impunity, draw a picture of him and
smear the picture with dirt, burn it up or throw
it in the water. In like manner a girl can say nasty
things to her doll whom she has named for her
father or mother when she doesn’t feel equal to
expressing her annoyance at first hand. Indeed in
play the child finds a way of working over his
experiences and assimilating them. Watch a child
play school or church or a family scene and notice
the way the child is assimilating his everyday ex-
periences through play. In addition parents pro-
vide for shared recreation with their children. It

414 RECREATION GUIDANCE

helps them to know and understand their chil-
dren’s problems of deve10pment. It enables them
to give wise because unobtrusive guidance. It en-
ables the children to come to know their parents
as human beings rather than as dictatorial old
fogies. Shared recreation is one of the chief means
of training children for family living.

Playmate teachers also take a hand in recrea-
tion guidance. “Peer culture” is an important
phase of development at all ages of childhood and
adolescence. In play age-mates hammer out a cul-
ture of their own to which adults can never quite
possess the key. Denying children and adolescents
the chance to learn the give-and-take and the many
other things which play with their own age brings
leaves—a gap in their deveIOpment which it is ex-
tremely difficult to fill later in life.

School teachers, in this day and age, have come
to take a lion’s share in recreation guidance. There
was a time when the school looked on play as
sinful or wicked or at best as a sheer waste of
time. In Puritan days play was regarded as a con-
cession to man’s innate depravity. Why then has
modern education taken recreation to its bosom?
The answer lies in the new conceptwhich educa-
tors have of their task. They now see that the
whole child must be developed—not just his brain;
that it is the school’s job to help children to grow
up with sturdy bodies, wholesome patterns of emo-
tional response, good social attitudes and general-
ized intellectual habits. The modern teacher under-
stands a child’s personality needs and the part
which recreation may play in meeting them.

Modern education regards its job as not one of
stuffing a child with facts but rather one of teach-
ing him to make choices, to select means of carry-
ing out the goals he has chosen and then of pur-
suing an activity which will lead him to the end
desired. For this purpose the modern teacher uses
two chief means : the curriculum, which is a selected
body of experiences, skills and knowledge believed
to be most educative; and recreation activities, in
which the child’s special interests have freer ex-
pression. The more skillful the teacher the thinner
will be the line between these two forms of activi-
ties. The up-to-date and skilled teacher knows
that the so-callcd “curriculum” and the so-called
“recreation” are identical in spirit and purpose
and very largely in method. Recreation guidance
thus becomes for the modern teacher, who regards
herself primarily as a personnel worker, a highly

important means of helping boys and girls to find
fulfillment for their personality needs as well as a

way of helping boys and girls to grow towards
physical, emotional, social and intellectual maturity.

Community teachers also share in a child’s rec-
reation guidance. These are of two kinds—com-
mercial amusements and public or privately spon-
sored recreation agencies. The danger of commer-
cial amusements is that they too often encourage
“spectatoritis” and do not provide adequately for
creative recreation. Furthermore they often leave
gaps in recreation services. Too often the pre-
school children or the girls or the out-of—school
youth or rural youth are not adequately served by
commercial recreation agencies. Every commu-
nity should have a recreation council to see to it
that, under public direction, there is a balanced
program for all ages—pre-school children, primary -
school children, boys and girls, pre—adolescents,
teen-agers, out-of-school youth, young adults,
adults of middle age and the old folk of the com-
munity. They, too, need recreation if their needs
'are to be met.

The Results of Recreation Guidance

A helpful program of recreation guidance by a
child’s four sets of teachers will result in certain
by-products which are important in any individ-
ual’s growth and happiness.

The development of skills. This includes skills in
sports, in public speaking, in acting, in singing, in
playing a musical instrument, in conducting a
meeting, in doing executive work, in writing arti-
cles or poetry, in editing a paper or magazine, in
drawing cartoons, and in art work. It includes
also social skills such as making friends and get-
ting along with others in various social situations.
In addition there are emotional skills to be learned,
especially the ability to bear tension without blow-
ing up. Recreation also develops intellectual skills,
especially skill in problem solving. Recreation
abounds in problems to be solved—whether it’s to
get the basketball in your basket or to plan and

carve the model of a ship or to work out the pro-
duction of a play.

The development of attitudes. This includes at-
titudes of good sportsmanship, of being a good
loser, of being a good winner, of playing fair,
attitudes of cooperating with others, attitudes of
give and take, attitudes of patience with others’
weaknesses and mistakes, attitudes of taking re-
sponsibility, ideals of good Workmanship, attitudes
of courtesy and politeness towards others, attitudes
of facing frustrations squarely rather than through

(C ontfnued on page 451)
RECREATION

The Challenge to Recreation

By HUGO W. WOLTER

f h' , h Id f
Arlingbn. Virginia 0 c 01ce s ou we not eel

HE IMPORTANCE of develop-
greater responsibility for provid—

ing capable leadership in a

democracy such as ours can— ing choices which contribute di-
not be overemphasized and we who are interested rectly to the practice of a democratic way of life?
in recreation are in a strategic position to do some— Should we not continuously build toward pro-
thing about it! The thinking and actions of Ameri- grams which make for real leadership? It has
cans are largely directed by leaders in the press, the often been said that he who dominates the think-
radio and our “experts.” All too many Americans ing of people in their leisure directs the course of
are reluctant to think, judge and act for them- their lives. Roman emperors, royalists, fascists,
selvesll It is so much easier to delegate the situa— and all kinds of “ists” have tried to capture the
tion to a “leader” then sit back ready to pounce mind at leisure in order to quiet riots and dissatis-
on the appointed one if things do not. turn out factions or to promote them. Is democracy some-
satisfactorily. VVe feel certain that as long as we " thing which can ignore this force? Is recreation
have sufficiently overlapping leadership we have something which we hesitate to use in a demo-
no reason to fear dictation. We have an expressed cratic program?
faith in both education and leadership. If recreation is what we claim it is, does it not

The very essence of democracy is the participa- ‘ have a dynamic opportunity to develop democratic
tion of the mass of the people. We must develop . attitudes and practices? We have often been forced
the feeling of group responsibility in our citizens. to realize that training gained in leisure is often
Experts are needed to advise, but the real leader- I more effective in directing the course of a person’s
ship cannot divorce itself from the responsibility life than formal education. Should we not attempt
to the whole citizenry. Government derives its to give much practice in the democratic way of life?
power from the consent of the governed. No Recreation is not simply a series of activities to
amount of specialized knowledge can change this. fill up time. It is not only creative in art, or music,

or crafts. It is not only body building. It is not
Developing LeaderShiP just some external expression. It is the practice of

We, in recreation, are squarely faced with the attitudes in a satisfactory medium for self-expres-
problem,of developing real community leadership sion. Certainly this medium ought to include the
in the' sense of deve10ping people who have an' essentials of democratic life.
appreciation of their responsibility to others. No Democracy proclaims the right of self—deter-
other phase of our lives offers such opportunities mination. Should we not foster that in recreation?
to practice initiative and responsibility as does rec- Democracy means the right to express an opinion.
reation. Inherent in it is a freedom of choice. If Should we not deve10p that? Democracy means
we can make the acceptance of responsibility for planning and thinking together. Should we not
others a choice of a large group of pe0ple we can devote much of the time to this phase of recreation?
make a distinct contribution to the democratic Must we, who have the Opportunity and the
way of life. tools to help build democratic attitudes and prac-

It seems to me that recreation has concerned tices, stand aside and watch the foundations
itself largely with the providing of programs and crumble? Why should we not even more bravely
activities. In the back of our minds we had fondly advocate a recreation philosophy and practice
cherished the idea that we were developing leaders. which recognizes the dynamic force it can exert in
We point with pride to the “leaders” in sports the building of a democratic way of life?
who got their start on the playground and in the
gymnasium. Have we not often confused those ContraSts
“who head the list” with those “who accept re— An outstanding example of the lack of apprecia-
sponsibility for a following” in our definition of tion of this force was in the War Relocation Cen-
leaders? - ters. The War Relocation Authority set up an ap-

Since recreation is practically the only held in roach to a program which was dynamic in de-
which we openly and bravely advocate a freedom (Continued on page 450)

NOVEMBER 1946 ‘ 415

Recreation for Older People
in Rural Communities

HE CONCEPTION of recrea-
Ttion as an important part

of rural life is age old.
Much of our worthwhile recreation, such as games,
party ideas and festivals found their origin in rural
life. The old-time singing school, country dancing
and folk arts and crafts all were part of rural
living. Barn raisings followed by the barn dances,
country fairs, horse races on fairground or snow-
bound tracks, husking bees, straw and sleigh rides,
sugarings-off, church suppers and socials pro-
vided many outlets for all ages.

While many rural communities do have recrea-
tion outlets in their Grange, Church, Farm
Bureau and other organizations, there are many
more which, for one reason or another, have no
community spirit. One sees many small communi-
. ties unchurched, the young people leaving the farm
and community principally because there is noth-
ing to do but toil. We find the games grand-
‘mothers played a lost art.

Some of our rural communities are very tiny,
hardly more than cross-roads. Many rural areas
in my State are in the hills. There are long, lone-
some winters on the farm—long nights, cold and
dark. How to banish tediousness, to fill all the
days with joy or to make them contribute to the
mental and spiritual worth of the individual, is the
problem. The social life of rural communities must
be strengthened from within. Only as people come
together as neighbors can there be community life.
There is increasing concern (for there is a long
way to go in recreation for rural areas) to serve
the individual, the family group and the commu-
nity.

The individual, be he young or old, needs op-
portunities to discover abilities, skills and inter-
ests within himself; opportunity to enjoy social
relationships with others and skills which add to
this enjoyment; opportunity to enjoy creative ac-
tivities such as music, books, nature, dancing and
games; opportunity to participate in the civic and
social affairs of the community; opportunity to
talk and something worth while to talk about. The
re-creative life in the country needs to be stimu-
lated, whether for the old or young. It is difficult
to concentrate on one age group when the leisure

416

By THERESA S. BRUNGARDT
Vermont Director of Recreation

time needs for all ages are so
great.

There is, however, a grow-
ing awareness of the need for recreation for older
people, a need which has been made more appar-
ent by the steady increase in the number of older
people in proportion to the total population. With
the longer average life span the leisure time prob-
lem is a vital one for those of 65 and over. (It’s
more apt to be 75 and over in our State!)

In most rural communities we find three major
problems aggravating the needs: first, the lack of
any funds; second, the lack of'adequate leadership;
third, the inadequacy of equipment.

In an effort to serve small and rural communi-
ties, recreation councils are being organized. They
are made up of representatives of the churches,
schools, organizations and special interest groups.
By this pooling of resources, volunteer leaders ac-
complish much and some of the stories of accom-
plishment are thrilling.

Some Cases in Point

What is it that the elderly people do in rural
areas? One aged man on a hill farm when asked
what he did all day replied, “Wal, sometimes I set
and think and other times I just set.” By contrast
there is an 89 year old physician who still drives
his own car and who, during the war years, was
the only physician in a large rural area. He boasts
of having brought IOO babies into the world during
the year. He keeps alert with varied hobbies from
bees to writing or reciting poetry. As a deacon in
the church he is most faithful and during Holy
Week attended services every night.

A friend of 87 has always been too busy to read
the French classics until this winter. The weeks
just “flew by.” .

A farmer of 88 sagely remarked, “A farmer has
to have resourcefulness and adaptability. They are
his currency and age doesn’t change those es-
sentials.”

One group receiving Old Age Assistance is
always on hand to sit on a common near a rail-
road station when the trains go by. It’s a form of
passive recreation. In one rural district a storm of
protest was aroused when the telephone company

RECREATION

RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE IN RURAL COMMUNITIES ' 417

proposed the installation of the dial system. Visit-
ing over party lines was their only contact with
one another in winter. The party lines remained.
At most community suppers—whether it be the
chicken pie, baked bean or game supper—one finds
a large proportion of elderly folk visiting and
enjoying the food.

For the men, fishing and hunting know no age
limit. An old_man of 84 prides himself on the
limit catch every May Day. Another elderly gen-
tleman occupies himself during the winter months
by tying Hies of all colors and sizes. The unofficial
State record for shooting porcupines is held by an
old man in his eighties.

The ladies like to piece quilts, do Red Cross
knitting or sewing. They love sewing bees. They
are always ready for a trip to town where a
favorite pastime is to sit in the car and look around.

The elderly women are often called upon to
make the costumes for the Christmas play at
church or Grange. I 'came, across a drab little old
lady sewing in a corner of a hall while everyone
else was busy with setting the stage. When I
asked her what she was making her face
brightened and she said, “I’m making a
fairy costume.” When I showed further
‘ interest she got confidential and said,
“Do you know, all my life I’ve
longed to make a fairy cos-
tume and this will be the '
most beautiful in all the
World.”

One finds enthusiasm
for the country fair among
the elderly, not only be-
cause they can exhibit,
proudly, their own handi—
work but they can com-
pare theirs with others and
visit.

Much pleasure comes
from country dances. The
old-timers frequently last

Courtesy Union County, N. 1., Park Commission

NOVEMBER 1946

longer than the, young ones. The caller and musi-
cians are often in the vicinity of four score in age.

Horseshoes and croquet, chess, checkers and j ig-
saw puzzles are popular.

One of the greatest satisfactions is community
service. Public officials, selectmen, town clerks,
school committee members, frequently come from
the older ranks because they have more time to
spare.

The hobbies offer a wide range of activity and
can furnish carry-over interest for waning years.
It is amazing to find in rural regions many hobby
interests which uncover hidden talents. Hobbies
are things that once started go along without much
leadership or direction. Hobby interests give one

something to look forward
' to, something different to

think about, often a new
friendship to replace lost
friends and family. At hobby
shows one finds elderly col—
lectors in the majority.

Men and women are never

too old to learn and to en—

joy creative hobbies and
active play.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Crafts as Recreation
An elderly French Ca-

nadian woman living alone
on an isolated farm in Ver-
mont had a few sheep- as
her only livestock. When
her only son was reported
missingin action she thought
she would “go crazy.” She
can neither read nor write
but' she knew she must do
something. She finally shear-
ed the sheep (with terrible
shears) and prepared the
wool for knitting, dyeing
some. She had always en-
joyed knitting and had made
up interesting and intricate
patterns as she went along.
Beautiful sweaters were
fashioned from this home-
grown wool. The knitting
which first proved to be an
emotional outlet is now
bringing in an income. The
son did not come back. but

418 ' RECREATION FOR OLDER PEOPLE IN RURAL COMMUNITIES "

the mother is now too busy to spend her waking
hours in mourning.

Another old lady recalled that her own grand-
mother made her a turkey wishbone doll many
years ago when she was ill with the measles or
some other childish ailment. She makes them now
as collector’s items. The wishbones are saved for
her at the State Prison.

A great grandmother relates how when all her
teeth were drawn she felt ill enough to go to bed
but got sidetracked on hooking a rug. For a solid
week she worked steadily on the rug which held
her interest and made her forget her aching jaws.

A Finnish octogenarian who cannot speak Eng-
lish has a method of removing bark from birch
trees and making unusual baskets. This craft now
brings in some revenue.

In a small community six to nine farm women
meet once a week in a converted blacksmith shop
which is their Weaving Center. Their own report
reads as follows, “Getting to the Center has been
difficult at times since only a few women have use.
of a car, some being forced to catch a ride on the
school bus or milk truck, even, at times, to walk
live to eight miles to get there. But at least a part
of the group has been on hand every week since ‘
we started out Five years ago, with only two ex-
ceptions. Each started out with one large loom,
kept at the Center, but some have purchased
smaller looms and now work at home in between
the days spent at the Center, during what time
can be spared from other duties. Also three of
thefn have daughters who weave, and who market
their merchandise with the group.” Thus a rec-
reation interest has also developed into a source
of pin money.

An old gentleman found a discarded loom in the
attic of his house. He cleaned and put it in order
and now spends much of his time in weaving. The
turning of wooden bowls and plates which began as
a hobby with an elderly man ran away from him,
he say, and now two other grandfathers help him
in fillng his orders.

These are a few instances reported by the Ver-
mont Arts and Crafts Service where hobbies have
developed into supplementary income for elderly
folk. As a result they are not only more inde-
pendent but happier.

Traveling Libraries

In Vermont we have four Library Book Wagons
which go into the remote hinterlands of the State.
The Library Service touches many isolated elderly

people and its members report fascinating experi-
ences: '

Way up on a mountain lives a man named
Brown. He is 92 and deaf but the biggest event in
his life is the arrival of the Book Wagon. He
always wants sea stories, adventure stories and
travel. To these requests he adds, “Put in one or
two extra I’d enjoy like a Sabatini.” When he
isn’t adventuring at sea he canes chairs. He speaks
of his housekeeper cousin as quite young, “She is
only 85 but very religious which makes her seem
older!”

A very old lady in her late eighties who lives in
an isolated farm house wants biography which is
worth reading since she has “no time to waste on
trash.” Life’s too short!

An elderly couple found some old glass in their
attic. They asked for a book on glass to look up
the name of the patterns. Out of this interest they
have started a little business in antique glass. Old
glass and button books are often asked for.

In one crossroads settlement, several older peo-
ple gathered together because of their interest in
birds. They read and exchanged library books and
today city ornithologists consult them for infor-
mation.

Two elderly men became interested in making
violins and read everything they could get on
violin making. One of them also became interested
in fancy cooking and asked for books on epicurean
food. They even served a very special meal to the
Book Wagon librarian and her driver. '

In one very small community two retired school
teachers requested so many books that the Book
Wagon librarian became curious. The discovery
was made that they carried a full basket of books
on their bicycles to farm neighbors. They selected
the books carefully and marked certain sections
for their neighbors to read. When strings were
found tying pages together they explained that
these parts could be skipped by the reader_ or,
again, that this section was ,too interesting to miss
a word. The personal service gave them a sense
of importance as well as satisfaction.

The Book Wagon also serves as a medium of
news from the outside world. This is especially
true when legislature is in session. Elderly men
especially gather round the Book Wagon to find
out what goes on “down there” at Montpelier. In
another rural area when the Book Wagon arrives
at the country store the telephone operator rings
the shut-ins. “Are you all on,” she says—and

(Continued on page 452)

RECREATION

 

What They Say About Recreation

ll OCIETY CANNOT AFFORD, for economic and
S cultural reasons, for reasons of community
health and happiness and of democratic
principle, to fail to provide opportunity for all

people to educate their tastes for off—time living.”
—G. Ott Romney in Cg the Job Living.

“There are delights, there are recreations and
jolly pastimes that will fetch the day about you

from sun to sun, and rock the tedious year as in a

delightful dream.”—Iolm Milton in Areopagitica
1644.

“To have the freedom of opportunity to enjoy
the advantages of recreation, conununity organi-
zation is needed and that requires support of
everyone in a community. Wailing because your
community has little to offer recreationally will
never solve the problem. It’s a job for everyone.”
—fames W. Gilmaii in Freedom for Fun.

“Every analysis of the causes of delinquency
and crime bears testimony to the significance of
leisure-time activities.”—Arthur L. Swift.

“Whatever you do with that spare time of yours,
it should be something that gives you keen delight.
If it doesn’t, then it is not a hobby—-—at least for
you.”—Earnest Elmo Cal/sins.

“There is hardly a human life which would not
have been different if the idea of beauty in the
mind of the man who lived it had been different.”
Walter Bagehote in Literary Studies.

“We need more activities that have no practical
purpose in them———things contributing to the sheer
enjoyment of life. W’e need them both as those
who appreciate and those who create.”

—-Harry W oodburn Chase. a

“Play has acted many roles in the cultures and
civilizations of the history of mankind. It has run
the gamut from an essential aspect of life during
early Greek days, through a period in the Dark

« Ages when it was regarded as a function of the
Devil, being rediscovered in the Middle Ages, and
promoted during the past century for its scientific
value.”

NOVEMBER 1946

“That leisure may be a boon and not a curse,
that it may upbuild and not break down the morale
of a people is an objective, a common cause to
whose support we may perhaps devote more
effort than we have ever given to leisure’s opposite
—work.”—Clare7ice E. Sherman.

“A sudivision without a playground is not a
good investment.”—Herbert Emmerich.

“If it were so
That two times two were hopscotch,
And two into eight went fishing,
Or d—o-g spelled ‘I spy,’
Or Geography were a description
Of the earth’s swimming holes,
How much more gladly would you seek
True wisdom
In the schoolhouse walls l”
—Chicago Recreation News.

“With the advent of more leisure for all will
come the necessity of mastering the finer art of
intelligent loafing, for it is not desirable that all
leisure be spent in activity. Loafing, resting and
meditation have a place in life not usually given
them by the modern.”—Franh H. Cheley.

“Universal leisure brings universal hope and
promise for a better life—a life full of opportunity
to enjoy the fruits of the world’s progress; to

.share with men everywhere the culture of the ages,

and to have a part creatively in the evolution of a
better world culture.”—George H jelte.

“On every side there are reports of the increased

life expectancy. This makes it more and more

important to enlarge the opportunities for satis-
factory living at the same time. There is no profit
in increasing the number of hours except as the
possibilities of strength and joy for these hours be

increased also.”

 

“If the day and night are such that you greet
them with joy and life emits a fragrance like
fiowers and sweet-scented herbs; is more elastic,
more starry, more immortal—that is your success.”

——Henry David Thoreau.
419

Christmas, Holly-Crown'd

0w WILL YOU KEEP Christmas on this nine-
H teen-hundred-forty—sixth year of its celebra-

tion? What are you planning in your recre-
ation centers and your schools, your clubs and
your youth canteens to celebrate—together—uthat
season when, in Bob Cratchit’s words, “men and
women seem by one consent to open their shut-up
hearts freely”?

Christmas is a time when men turn naturally to
the old, familiar, traditional ways of doing things.
Custom, cherished from generation to generation
and changing but little with the changing years,
is—and ought to be—part and parcel of the sea—
son. The reverent recollection of the Christmas
story; the hanging of the greens; the decking of
the tree with all its ornaments, well-loved and
carefully preserved from year to year; the breath-
snatching wonder about Saint Nick and his team,
renew their vitality each time you touch Christmas.
But, for all that, there is room for new ways to
clothe old joys.

Here We Go a-Caroling

Take caroling, for instance. How are you plan-
ning to “go a-caroling”? At a school in a Massa-
chusetts town pupils gather in the corridors each
morning during the week preceding the Christmas
vacation. A creche is set up near the piano. Here
the youngsters come when the opening bell has
called them from the schoolyard. They sing a
Christmas hymn, make their pledge of allegiance
to the Flag, spend a few minutes singing the carols
they all love. Sometimes a trumpeter and a violin-
ist or two from the school band add their music to
that of -the pianist. When the musicians strike the
opening chords of Adeste Fidelis the group breaks
up and, caroling as they go, the pupils walk to
their classrooms and the beginning of the day’s

work. And happiness‘walks with them—happiness
and reverence.

The city of Indianapolis caroled last year for a
week before Christmas. High schools, elementary
and secondary schools, choral groups and glee
clubs, church choirs, community center choruses,
singers from the School for the Blind, lodge mem-
bers, university students, all took part in singing
the city’s praises to Christmas. A municipal
Christmas committee made the plans—plans that
called for three programs each day on Monument

420

Circle. A minute of prayer was part of every
program. Some of the programs provided special
events—a cantata, a dance drama. But the back-
bone of the celebration was the singing of the
warm and joyous songs of Christmas.

Boston, too, sings for Christmas. At three cen-
ters of the city and at different times of the day on
the day before Christmas eve Bostonians gather
to sing out their joy, to hear a Christmas message

,from the Mayor and to watch the lighting of tree

or creche. On Christmas eve there are further
Observances — tableaux and dramatizations of
Christmas stories and broadcasts of appropriate
radio programs. 'But always there are carols by
organized choral groups and‘by the people massed
in the squares. And there are carols by groups of
strolling singers who go‘about the city according
to a prearranged schedule but with an air of un-
s'cheduled informality.

E. W. Johnson, Superintendent of St. Paul’s
playgrounds writes as‘ follows of that city’s plans
to go a-caroling in 1946:

“Caroling seems to be a very popular and mag-
netic plan to assemble boys and girls together in
an informal way. Music may be classified as good
or bad, but for the satisfactions of the heart it can
be good and edifying even though performed by
amateurs. Recognizing this trend in handling boys

. and girls, our Recreation Department will conduct

a Christmas Carol Singing Contest throughout the
city during the week of December 16 to 23.
“Groups of young people from our 17 recrea—
tion centers are now being organized, trained and
classified according to the following groupings:
Group A, under I4 years of age; Group B, 14 and
over; Group C, musical groups from schools,
churches and organizations that specialize in the
more highly trained singers. In each group there
will be a minimum of eight boys and girls, so that
.each in itself, will form a congenial social group.
“The city will be divided into four districts, and
carol festivals will be held in each district to
choose the best talent. Those selected by com-
petent judges will then take part in a city cham-
pionship contest to be held in a downtown area.

These groups will visit downtown department-

stores and other business places during the holiday
week to bring Christmas greetings to the patrons.
Each group will also be urged to carol during the

RECREATION

i

CHRISTMAS, HOLLY-CROWN’D 421

evenings in their own com-
munities, at neighborhood
movie theaters and public
gatherings such as P.T.A.
and institutibnal Christmas
parties.

“Over 900 boys and girls
participated in the 1945
singing festival and the
number is ‘expected to be
a great deal larger this
year. Many adult groups
will take part in district
festivals so that a
neighborhood pro-
gram will include
all ages. Featured
at any assembly
of a carol group will be, besides the carol singing,
tableaux and skits. Everywhere there will be ap-
propriate decorations so that these features will
be outstanding.”

In Oregon, the Extension Service of the State
College and radio station KOAC cooperated to
present two special series of broadcasts at 9:15 in
the morning and in the evening. All the people
within range of the station were invited to “Sing
a Carol a Day” or to join in “Caroling Round the
Family Fireside.”

. 4

A Parade and a Court

The Recreation Department in Memphis, Ten-
nessee, plans very special Christmases for the
youngsters. One year the Children’s Division put
on “The Spirit of Christmas Parade.” It was led
by “Town Criers” who, with lanterns and bells,

cried the season

“Hear Ye! Hear Ye!
Merry Christmas 1”

Close upon their heels came four boys bearing
the Tennessee flag, the Park Commission flag and
two special Christmas flags. Next in line were
Christmas heralds -— foul" Christmas “ponies,”
three buglers and 18 Santa Claus heralds with
trumpets. A large group of Christmas bellringers,
their leaders flanked by holly—bearers, completed
the vanguard of the procession. Behind them the
parade was strung out in this order:

SILENT N tour—children bearing candles and stars.

DREAM TRAIN—floats decorated as a train with engine
and flat cars and drawn by a tractor. Two little
girls and two little boys lay asleep in their beds on
the flat cars. They were escorted by marching
youngsters carrying books and lanterns.

NOVEMBER 1946

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Print by Gedge Harmon

NOAH’S ARK—carried by four boys and followed by
“animals” from fleas to ‘elephants marching two
by two.

THE ‘GIRLS’ DRUM CORPS—preceded by the big bass
drum carried on a float.

SANTA CLAUS PARADE—made up of the characters in
nursery rhymes and stories for children.

Each playground in Memphis had its special
part and place in this big parade of fun. Buses

_ called for the youngsters and took them in their

costumes to a central meeting place where they
collected their properties and lined up for the start.
When the marching was over the buses returned
the children to their own playgrounds.

Another southern city—Augusta, Georgia-—
worked out a Children’s Christmas Court for the
high point of its Christmas program. Every park
and playground was represented in the proceedings
which were held in a central hall. A court judge
presided over the festivities and other function-
aries—King and Queen, court attendants and jest-
ers, sat in state to watch a short play, Christmas
in the Deep Forest; a tumbling act; folk dance
exhibitions ; and such tableaux as “The Shepherds,”
“The Three Kings of the Orient,” and “The

Manger.” Santa Claus with his pack of presents
was on hand to do the usual Christmas honors

around the lighted tree. Everybody sang carols.

And, speaking of trees, one year a community

in Colorado thought up a special way to handle
the problem of decorating the town. The Chamber

of Commerce arranged for enough seven-foot ever-
greens to line the streets. (Incidentally, every tree

‘ bore a tag stating that it had been cut under

422

proper supervision as part of the forest conserva-
tion program.) School children made decorations
and trimmed the trees so that their green shone
resplendent along all the streets of the city.

A Ceremony and a Service

You can just decorate for Christmas or you can
make a ceremony out of decorating. Here is how
one community planned a decorating ceremony.

At the beginning of the program the room“ to be
decorated was bare save for an unlighted Christ-
mas tree placed center front on a stage. At the
back of the stage a chorus was seated. Three
groups of singing children opened the program.
Each group entered in procession from a different
part of the hall. The hrst was singing, I aw Three
Ships; the second, Here We Come a-Wassailing;
the third, led by a boy with a drum, Pat—a—Pan.
When the children were all in their places a group
of adults, youngpeople and other children, each
bearing a wreath or a holly branch or some other
bit of green came down the center aisle while
chorus, children and audience sang Deck the Halls.
This carol was followed by The Holly and the Ivy
and while the singing continued the decoration—
bearers hung their greens'in prearranged places.

As soon as the decorations were in place the
chorus sang Lo, How a Rose as a prelude to this
musical telling of the Christmas story:

The First Nowell, Stanza I
Everylbody

Chanting of the Angel’s Message
Solo soprano voice

Gloria in Excelsis Deo
s Small Chorus

(During the Gloria the Christmas tree lights
came on)

Carol of the Shepherds
Junior High School chorus in the balcony

It Came Upon the Midnight Clear
Everybody _
(During this carol the lights in the hall went down
leaving only the Christmas tree lights)

Sleep of the Infant Jesus
First children’s chorus in the balcony

Away in a Manger
Second children’s chorus in the balcony

Silent Night
Everybody
(After Silent Night all lights came on again)

Hallelujah Chorus
All choral groups

(The lights were again lowered)

CHRISTMAS, HOLL Y-CROWN’D _

Bring a Torch Jeanette, Isabella
Chorus
(During this carol two processions of high school
girls went up on to the stage, each led by girls
i with lighted electric candles)

0 Come All Ye Faithful
Everybody

' (The choruses, in procession, left the hall singing

while the audience remained standing)

If you are looking for a- simple and reverent
presentation of the Christmas story for very young
children here is one that has been tried and found
very far from wanting.* The “choir” is a verse-
speaking chorus made up of youngsters. Very little
setting is needed. Although a more elaborate pre-
sentation may be arranged if desired, it is enough
to have a simple tableau of The Nativity against a
lovely backdrop as the center for the program.

The children of the choir should march onto the
stage and stand about the scene naturally, doing as
they please. Older youngsters should enter the
hall in groups — from the right, from the left,
down the center—singing carols. When everyone
is seated, the hall should be darkened leaving the
stage lighted by spots. '

MUSIC: 0 Little Town of Bethlehem, sung by
audience and participants.

NARRATOR: And it came to pass in the days of
Herod the king that a babe was born unto the
Virgin Mary in Bethlehem of Judea; and she
laid him in a manger because there was no room
for Him in the inn. '

CHOIR: And she called His name Jesus.

NARRATOR: And lo! a star came and stood over

where the young child was.

CHOIR: And the young child was with Mary, his
mother; and she called His name Jesus.

MUSIC: IV e Three Kings of Orient Are, sung by .

audience and participants.

NARRATOR: “And’wise men fell down and wor-
shipped and brought Him gold and frankin—
cense and myrrh.

And great choirs of the heavenly hosts sang.”
CHOIR: Peace on earth, good will toward men.
NARRATOR: And His name was called Jesus.

CHOIR: And His name was Jesus. Peace on earth,
good will toward men.

MUSIC: Joy to the World (chorus only). Sung
by audience and participants.

 

*Arranged b

Mary Gwen Owens, Director of Drama, McAlister
College,

t. Paul, Minnesota.

RECREATION '

‘l

 

Planning
Christmas Parties

By ROBERT LOHAN

ACH YEAR, perhaps a million or more
Christmas parties are given in the
United States. N 0 school, no church

group, no club, no community passes the season
by. But is it always a real Christmas party, one
worthy of its name, a party to be lived over and
over in happy reminiscences?

To make your party real—and alive—Christmas
should not be just the time touhave a party, but
rather’ it should be the occasion for _a party to
celebrate the spirit of Christmas.

In planning- any party you want fun, convivial-
ity, a good time. You want it no less at a' Christ-
mas party. But Christmas demands something
more—something that will detract no whit from
the good time but which will make every succeed-
ing day more interesting, happier, a continuous
good time. What is that something? The answer
can be found only in‘ the meaning of the word
Christmas itself. '

Although Christmas has almost come to connote
a bonanza for the department stores and a head-
ache for weary shoppers and wearier clerks, it
must not be forgotten that Christmas, first-and
foremost, is the celebration of the birth of a man
without whose sympathetic presentation of the
need for man’s kindness to man no party would be
worth the giving. The Christ-ideal and the man
who first enunciated it demands recognition at a
Christmas party. If you were giving a Lincoln’s
or Washington’s Birthday Party, would you omit
reference to Lincoln or Washington? If you were
producing “Hamlet,” would you leave out the
character of Hamlet?

At a Christmas party, putting a star on the top
of a lighted tree is not quite enough. Open the
door and let Christ come to the party. He won’t
be a guest of whom you will be ashamed, and no
one will wish He hadn’t come. Of course, you
cannot go 'around to your guests and say, “This is
our Savior. Don’t you think He is wonderful?
He says you should be good and a peaceful, law-
abiding citizen. You will, won’t you ?” They might

NOVEMBER 1946

 

Print by Gedge H armon

reply that they could give no such guarantee with
food at a dollar a pound and very little at any
price. They might even suggest that your friend
would be more wonderful if He did something to
make the world more peaceful and law-abiding.
No, you cannot bring Christ to your party with
sledge-hammer lectures or a sermon. He can be
brought only through the hearts and minds of those
who plan this party with a sincere desire to make
a group of people very happy—and want them to
be happy as a result of their efforts.

This is your “design for a Christmas party,”

the something that will make it outstanding, last-

ing, worthwhile. There must be no thoughts of
“Christmas again! I wish it were over l” or “How
am I ever going to get everything done!” Never
forget why you are giving this party. The you may
be an individual hostess or a committee but the
design is the same for all. See it, feel it, just as
the architect sees a completed house, landscaped
and inhabited, before he makes the first pencil
stroke of his draft—-and keep on seeing it and
feeling it until the last good-bye.

But your design has not yet taken form. A
Christmas party is not merely another dance or an
ice cream social. It must have a special program
which sets it apart from all other festivities of the
year. There are' several different angles of ap-
proach. The religious aspect may prevail or the
Santa Claus tradition may be in the foreground
or you may wish to create the merry Yuletide
atmosphere of old, or all three elements may be

combined.

The scene is set for the actual program. Let
this program be as varied and entertaining as
possible. Carol singing at the beginning and end
provides the right frame. There may be an ex-
change of gifts. “Christmas won’t be Christmas
without any presents,” says Jo in Little IVomen.
While a “grab-bag” may contribute much excite-

423

424

ment and hilarity, planned giving affords more
real satisfaction. A week or so before the date of
the party, let each member of the group secretly
draw the name of another expected guest, so that
he knows for whom he has to provide a gift, but
the recipient will not know to whom he is indebted.
There may be a Christmas dinner, or a dance, or
a play, or games—whatever may appeal to the
particular group for whom you are planning, but
the design must include everyone, either as actor
or active audience. There must be no wall flowers,

no strangers.

Too often, a host or committee of hosts is re-'
sponsible for introductions and then when the.

party begins, other matters permit no more than
hurriedly mumbled names which mean nothing in
getting people acquainted. The art of giving quick,
summary backgrounds with introductions to start
the conversational ball rolling is a specialized func-
tion which should be well-planned in advance and
delegated to a capable group.

There is no better place to get acquainted
quickly than at a fancy-dress party. One of New
Orleans’ most successful parties was given on the
Mississippi River. “The President,” a large river
steamboat, was chartered for the evening, and
everyone came in costumes of the gay 90’s. There
were refreshments on one deck, there was dancing
on another and a continuous performance of van-
deville, enacted by talented guests, took place on
the main deck. All the guests pretended they
knew each other (without introductions) and
before the evening was over, they did.

Southern people are known for their capacity
for enjoyment. Why? Because they can pretend
and believe what they pretend—just as they do at
Carnival-time in New Orleans. The king is actu-
ally a king and his queen is a real queen for the
entire Carnival season. In one particular house-
hold even the old Negro servants entered into this
Spirit of make-believe by addressing their young
mistress who had been chosen queen as “Your
Majesty.” '

Here is a Christmas party that was given in a
New York apartment. It was a make-believe din-
ner in a restaurant. Most of the furniture was
removed from the living room. There were indi-
vidual tables with the sign “reserved” on most of
them. Pictures were removed from the walls and
replaced by caricatures of the guests, autographed
with a few words of appreciation to “Pierre,” the
chef. Pierre, who was none other than the host,
appeared in white cap and apron and delivered a

PLANNING CHRISTMAS PARTIES

brief speech of welcome to his “patrons.” There
was a hostess to seat the guests, Waiters and
cigarette girls were in attendance, and the guests
said it was the best Christmas dinner they had
ever eaten in any restaurant.

For parties on a larger scale, games and dancing
are not indispensable. You may have them'at any
time. Why not make the Christmas party rather
special by centering the program about a play or

the reading of a story? In almost any place, an I

impromptu stage with a curtain and small spot-
lights for lighting effects can be improvised. If
the play entails too much rehearsing a Christmas
tale, read to the audience, can be the climax of the
party. The genius of a great writer is able to
conjure the Spirit of Christmas and your guests
may receive something to take home, more valu-
able than Santa Claus’ well—meant gift—something
to remember for 12 months to come. Choose a
story that is directly connected with Christmas
itself and that brings home to the listener the sig—
nificance of the great Christmas festival. But re-
member! Only a professional master, like Maurice
Evans or Helen Hayes, is able to hold the atten-
tion of an audience for more than half an hour.
Ten to 20 minutes should be the average reading
time.

Important to the success of a party is correct
timing. 'For the featured entertainment, the re-
freshments, the speech-making, or whatever is
planned for the occasion, the wise host watches the
clock and sticks to the schedule. There must be
no “stage-waits,” no lull in the fun. Each event
must be given a certain time allowance, it should
never be too long, and the sequences should be
planned as a whole.

Prepare in advance for “unavoidable delays” and
have up your sleeve some extra carol singing or
some entertainment by someone who does not
have to be begged. ‘

' At every party there will be late comers. In
timing, allow for them. One way of decreasing
the percentage is to start the party at a set time
with a feature and announce it in the invitation.
There is no better way to get the party in full
swing and inspire the real Christmas spirit than
by the singing of a few carols followed by a Christ—
mas story. Who does not like to join in singing a
familiar song? And who does not enjoy listening
to a bit of O. Henry’s The Gift of the .Magi, or
to Charles Dickens’ Tiny Tim saying, “God bless
us, every one!” or, perhaps, the telling of some

(Continued on page 452)

RECREATION

“We Deck Up Our Houses"

ET’s PRETEND A BIT. _Let’s pretend that you’re
back in the days when you were very young.
Or, perhaps; we’ll have to go back even
further and pretend you’re back in the days when
your parents were very young—back, at any rate,
when there wasn’t a “five and ten” on every other
corner, when drug stores sold drugs (and maybe
raspberry, strawberry, vanilla and chocolate sodas),
when you lived in a whole house and ran the last
couple of blocks to school because it was so cold
the packed snow squeaked under your rubbers.

It’s mid—December and although nobody is tell-
ing you every other whip-stitch that there are ust
so many more shopping days before Christmas so
you’d better do your shopping early, you know
you’ve got to hustle if the tree is going to look its
best this year and the house be decked in all its
. usual Christmas finery. As you dash through the
schoolroom door and begin to glow in the antici-
pated warmth you’re thinking that tomorrow’s
a half-holiday and that you and the family will
begin_making things out of cranberries and pop-
corn and the evergreens you’ll pick in the bit of
woods at the edge of town.

In those days Christmas decorations were not so
easy to come by and likely to be dear. Each year
you added a few clear balls and a new. glass rein-
deer or a small horn that gave out one clear, pleas—
ant note when you blew it, to the accumulated
treasures from other years carefully packed in
cotton wool and preserved in a special box in a
special corner of the attic. You brought out the
wide red ribbon that tied the wreath 011 the door
'and dampened it and pressed it with a very hot
iron for another using. You unwrapped the little
paper house with its funny, hard artificial snow
that Aunt Minnie had brought back from her
wedding trip to New York, and you set it in the
window with a fresh candle ready for lighting on
Christmas eve. But, for the most part you de-
pended on your own ingenuity to make the house
speak with the tongue of Christmas. You created
your simple and lovely decorations and found sud-
denly, if you stOpped to think. about it, that you
had' re-created yourself into the bargain.

New Times—New Customs

Well, those days of simplicity are gone, swept
clean away by science and mass production and

NOVEMBER 1946

crowded living and gadgets. We are living in the
brave new world of industry. It’s a world where
toy dolls walk and talk and drink their milk when
“mother” tells them and toy trucks move under
their own power. It’s a world where filling sta-
tions grow evergreen forests overnight, come
Christmas, forests that have a fantastic beauty all
their own; where decorations for the tree are set
out in all their multiple glory in bins so that you
can pay your money and take your choice if you’ve
a mind to do so. It’s a world of small living spaces,
of windows high up enclosing strangely satisfying
views of the sharp black lines of ventilating pipes
and incinerator covers that take on majesty and
wonder when touched by the dusk. It’s a world of
new materials, of new knowledge about ways to
use old materials. It’s a world where you can
still create simple and lovely Christmas decora—
tions and find suddenly, if you stop to think about

it, that you have re-created yourself into the
bargain!

You don’t have to be any great shakes as an
artist to turn out satisfaction at a work table. You
don’t have to be wealthy to know the common and
garden variety of fun in making things. You do
need time, but not much more than the amount
you’d spend to buck the crowds if you’ve forgot-
ten to shop early. If you’d like to try your hand at
making some of the decorations described below
here is what you’ll need.

Basic Ingredients

A place to work
A pair of old scissors or tin snips
Tin, in sheets or in used cans that retain their “shine”
and can be rolled out flat
Paper—wrapping paper
cellophane
construction paper
newspaper
Laths
Linseed oil
Pencils, chalk, tempera or show card colors, water
colors
Bon Ami (powdered) and dry color
India ink
Pine cones, small sticks, corncobs
Chemicals (as indicated below)
Flour, alum and salt
Your normal amount of imagination
Enthusiasm
Freedom from the fear of failure.

425

426

These are the ingredients you need and out of
them you can make enchantment—at home, in
craft classes at recreation center or school, in club
meetings, in Sunday Schools or other church
groups—remembering all the while that the more

friends at work on the making, the merrier the

occasion.

Procedures

What will you make and how will you make it?
You can make Christmas windows or decorations
for table and mantlepiece or a creche or special
fuel to give a touch of magic to your Christmas
fires. Here’s howyou do it.

Christmas Windows. There are many dilIerent
kinds of Christmas windows. Some of them are
as easy as rolling off a
log and can be whipped
up at the last minute.
Others take a little more
thought and prepar-
ation.

First of all, choose
your window theme.
This is up to you for
it will depend upon
such local factors as
the number and
shape and size of
the windows in
the room you are
going to decorate,
the age and the
skill of your crafts—

men, whether you [4
want to stress the secular or the religious side of

the season. In general you will want to think
about outlines and masses rather than small de-

tails. And you will want to think about color.

If you make your picture window on paper to
cover the whole window space you will need a light
frame. For this use strips of laths. From them

make a frame the size of the window casement.
When your picture is done tack it to the frame
with thumbtacks.

Make your first sketch on a small piece of paper
and when it suits your artistic eye cut a large
piece of wrapping paper, draw the outline of the
window on it and sketch in your design (enlarged
to fit the space you have drawn) in pencil or chalk.
Then do your painting. Don’t forget to indicate
in black the leading or the panes. Take a look, by

\

 
  
 
  
 
  

“WE DECK OUR HOUSES”

the way, at stained glass windows in a church to
see how the leading is handled.

You can get a striking result if you oil the back
of the picture after the colors are thoroughly dry.
Cover the whole back with the linseed oil using an
ordinary paint brush for the application. Wipe off
the excess oil with a soft cloth and leave the
picture standing for at least two or three hours
before you tack it to the frame. The oil gives an
effect of translucence, like old parchment, to plain
brown wrapping paper.

Ce110phane is a good medium for window pic-
tures. You can use colorless cellophane _and paint

your picture on it with black India ink or black'

show card color for the leading. Or you can, with

glue-like mucilage (as nearly colorless as possi-
' ble), paste cut-outs of

the colored cellophane on
a blue (for night scenes)
or yellow (for daylight)
background.

to color and pre-
fer clean, bold
masses of black
make a silhouette
to decorate your
windows. Use
black construction
paper cut-outs and
paste them direct-
ly on the window
pane.

Or you can use
Bon Ami an d
paint for scenes done on the glass. Perhaps the
simplest method for this kind of window is to get
Bon Ami in powdered form, mix it with show
card colors and go to work. However, if you
prefer, you can cover the window with a coating
of Bon Ami then apply your design with tempera.

Print by Gedge H armon

lovely effects thereby if you run electric lights
between the glass window and its paper “party
dress.” In that case you’ll want to attach the
picture to the very inside (room side) of the win—

dow frame so that you will have enough space for
the bulbs.

Table Decorations.* Roll up a lightweight sheet
of cardboard in a cornucopia shape and cover it

 

*The decorations in this section were worked out and described
by Nora I-Iall and Louise Stewart for the Cali arm'a Parent-
eaeher,’ issue of December 1945. The materi is used here

by perrmssnon from that publication.

RECREATION

If you’re allergic .

\‘E

“WE DECK OUR HOUSES” 427

with silver Christmas paper. Fill it with pine
branches and Christmas tree balls of various sizes
and colors. Flank the filled cornucopia with two
brass candlesticks holding candles of different
lengths and of a color to harmonize with the balls.

Open up two large tin cans and with tin-snips
or old scissors cut them into the shape of two
identical, conventionalized pine trees. Slit one of
the trees half-way down and slide the two to-
gether so that you have a four-sided tree. Set the
tree on a pin-holder in a tuna can, surround it
with the tips of pine branches and hang tiny orna-
ments or red berries on the pine. Make two small
angels, two inches high, from small tin cans rolled
in the shape of a cone. Glue wirigs on the angels’
backs and colored stars on their skirts. Set the
whole arrangement'on a circle of metal paper. You
can use both tree and angels for party favors.

Mix one cup of flour, one cup of salt, one table-
spoon of alum with about one-half cup of water.
Thislwill give you a “clay” from which you can
fashion little Biblical figures 'or snow men with
clove eyes and berry mouths or little angels to hold
tiny birthday-cake candles. The “clay” dries a
shiny white and can be tinted with water colors.

If you want to decorate a long table use five or
seven goblets (clear or a deep red) from the ten-
cent store. Set each goblet on a circle of silver
paper and put a candle in each glass. Along the
base twine pine branches and berries interspersed
with Christmas tree balls. _'

Cut reindeer from tin cans with tin-snips or old
scissors. Fold them over so that they stand up.
Use the rims of cans for runners of a Santa Claus
sled loaded with clumps of red berries and char-
treuse and red balls. Put a Santa candle in the
driver’s seat and give him reins of red ribbon. Set
the whole arrangement on a piece of shiny red
shelf paper.

Creche. There’s probably nothing more fun for
the group to make than a creche. It can be very
elaborate, of course, and it can cost a lot of money
if you buy the various parts and figures already
made. But a simple creche is just as effective and
far more meaningful if the animals and human
figures have been fashioned with loving care. A
pair of shingles (old ones will serve as well as
new), a piece of masonite and four sturdy, straight
pine twigs will make the stable. Cut the pieces of
pine so one pair is longer than the other, screw
them into the masonite and nail the shingles to the
posts so that one forms the back of the stable, the
other the slanting roof. -Cut a semicircular hole

NOVEMBER 1946

in the back wall about half-way up so that a light
can be thrown from behind on the manger. Make
the manger of cardboard or plywood and fill it
with straw.

Use the “clay” mixture described above to make
the figures that will surround the manger—the
Holy' Family, the shepherds, the wise men, the
animals. Make an angel; too, and set her on the
roof of the stable.

If you can find an old, brocaded evening coat
or some other rich fabric discarded by its user it
will make a rich background for the creche. Use
bits of evergreen or pine cones as background
trees.

These suggestions for a creche are basic. There
are infinite variations which you can add from
your own imagination or from the imagination of
the group.

Magic Fires. In cold climates an Open fire is an
integral part of Christmas. With a very little
trouble, you can add extra beauty to crackling
logs and make very acceptable Christmas presents
for your open-fire-friends into the bargain.

Chemically treated pine cones are, perhaps, the
most attractive of the magic fuels, but small pieces
of wood or corncobs or even new5papers will pro-
duce the same effect.

If you settle for newspapers, cut the paper into
12—inch widths and make of them rolls four inches
in diameter. Tie them with string and soak them
in a solution of potassium nitrate, sodium nitrate
or copper nitrate for four days. Take them out of
the solution and hang them in the cellar or some
other unused ’room to dry. Use one ounce of
chemical to a quart of water.

If you are using pine cones dry them thoroughly
in a warm oven, tie the cones in cheesecloth and
soak them in the chemical solution (one-half pound
of chemical to two quarts of boiling water) for
five minutes. Spread the cones on newspapers
until they are thoroughly dry.

An alternate method of treating pine cones or
wood is to give them a thin coat of shellac and,
while the shellac is still wet, sprinkle with dry
chemical.

You’d .better wear rubber gloves during these
processes because some of the chemicals are poi-

sonous. .
The chemically treated fuels will burn With

bright colors when they are added to the logs in
the fireplace. Here are the colors you may expect
depending upon the chemicals used:

(Continued on page 450)

The Navy's Peace’rime Plans for Recreation
. By Commander M. A. GABaIELSON, U.S.N.R.

war concept of recreation. This, in substance,
is what V ice-Admiral Louis Denfeld, Deputy
‘ Chief of Naval Operations for Personnel, told a
group of 100 naval ofiicers last June at graduation
exercises which signified for these officers the com-
pletion of a month’s indoctrination in the adminis-
tration of the Navy’s physical fitness, welfare and
recreation programs. The graduation of these 100
men, ranging in rank from Lieutenant (junior
grade) to Captain, was a significant occasion since
it demonstrated to the world that the Navy has
recognized and accepted the values and need of a
well-balanced and well-directed program of physi-
cal fitness, athletics, recreation, and other welfare
activities as a positive factor in keeping men physi-
cally and mentally fit to perform their Navy duties.
During World War II the Army and Navy
conducted probably the most intensive recreation
programs in our history. In the Navy nearly 3,000
officers and 25,000 enlisted men were employed to
administer various phases of the recreation, wel-
fare and physical fitness programs. The Army had
even more leaders in their special service corps.
At least 65 percent of these persons were profes-
sionally trained, either specialists in a particular
activity of the program or professional recreation
or physical education leaders. The
others had a general interest in the
program or a special interest in
some phase of it.

THE NAVY W'ILL NEVER again regress to its pre-

The recreation program of the
Navy accepted as its mission the
responsibility of providing a well-
rounded schedule of recreation ac-
tivities for all its personnel de-
signed to:

Contribute to maintenance at all
times of a high state of morale.

Insure adequate leisure time op-

' portunities for participation in
wholesome constructive activi-
ties.

Provide opportunity for creative
expression in such areas as
music, art, dramatics, crafts,
games, and sports.

428

Provide outlets designed to retain a high state
of mental, physical, and emotional fitness for
all naval personnel.

The Navy assumes the premise that a man is
moSt useful to the Navy when he is mentally and
physically fit. Weakness in either will impair pro-
ficiency. Although many other factors influence
the ob of keeping the men physically and mentally
fit-———adequate food, proper quarters, domestic'tran-
quility, mail—the Navy recognizes that recreation
opportunities are a part of the'integrated pro'gram
essential for maintenanCe of a high state of morale
among its personnel.

Peacetime Leadership

In formulating policies for peacetime operation
of the Navy it became evident to planners that it
would be both impossible and impractical to retain
all the types of officer and enlisted specialists who
served in the Navy during the war. Many enlisted
specialist. ratings were created .as a wartime ex-
pedient. In a like manner it became neCessary to
commission a wide variety of specialists to con-
duct the many special programs of the Navy. Rec-
reation, physical fitness, education were all ad-
ministered. by professionally trained people labeled

. N

 

Official Photo U. 5. Navy 
RECREATION ‘

THE NAVY’S PEACETIME PLANS FOR RECREATION 429

as “specialist.” Because of the need
for personnel economy this vast
specialist corps , had to be done
away with in the peacetime Navy,
but it became evident to those di-
recting the programs of physical
fitness and recreation in the Bureau
of Naval Personnel that something
had to be done about providing
leadership for the peacetime pro-
gram. It was estimated that the
Navy would need approximately
125 officers to perform primary
duties in the programs of physical
fitness and recreation. Officer bil-
lets were established at district
staff levels and Imaor naval stations
in the continental United States
and major overseas bases.

The Navy knew demobilization
would strip it of all its professional
recreation and physical training ofhcers. Conse-
quently, it was decided to conduct an intensive in-
doctrination course for regular naval officers and
those reserve officers who had volunteered to re—
main on active duty until July I, 1947. The course
was designed to train these officers to take over
the administration of the program at all key naval
stations and thereby bridge the gap between the
war and peacetime programs. The Naval Train-
ing Center at Bainbridge, Maryland, was selected

as the training site. The staff was composed of the,

best qualified professional recreation and physical
training officers'still remaining in the Navy, plus
civilian guest lecturers who included some of the
foremost experts in the field. They were Dr.  B.
Nash, Dr. Arthur Steinhaus, Adolph Keifer, Dan
Ferris, Dr. Raymond Fosdick, Arthur Noren, and
Augustus Zanzig.

The Courses

The course included training in
Recreation
Physical fitness
Educational services
Welfare and personal affairs

A total of 182 hours of instruction was pre-'

sented in a period of four weeks. Emphasis was
placed on methods, techniques of administration,
Navy policies and directives on each subject, philo-
sophiscal implications of each division, and demon-
strations of certain phases of the program. The
officers came away with a vast amount of informa-

N ONEMBER 1946

5-3 ON" ‘

OEicial Photo U. 5. Navy

 

tion and material concerning the over-all adminis-
tration of the Navy’s program.

The keynote of the Bainbridge course was co-
ordination of all phases of the physical fitness, rec-
reation, and welfare programs. The need for mak-
ing available to the “bluejacket” a balanced pro-
gram of activities was emphasized. An ideal plan
of a recreation, education and physical fitness pro-
gram for a naval station of 1,000 men was formu—
lated as a guide for the officers.

Ideal Plan
Recreation

Motion pictures. At least three but no more
than four different motion picture programs
each week. Seating capacity of theater, at
least 60 percent of the station personnel.

Entertainment other than movies. Live enter-
tainment should be provided once a week, and
preferably twice a week. The following types
were suggested : outside professional entertain-
ers, happy hours, amateur shows, quiz shows,
concerts, song fests and swing sessions.

Hobby crafts. A complete hobby shop to pro-
vide two square feet for every man on the
station. The shop should have at least 25 dif-
ferent activities from which men could choose.

Library. Adequate space to accommodate 2. 500
books and 60 persons.

Stat-ion parties or dances. At least one dance or
party each month.

DRU RY COLLEGE LIBRARY

Springfield, Missouri

430 THE NAVY’S PEACETIME PLANS FOR RECREATION ,,

Department or Division parties. At least one
party or social event each three months. This
could be an outing, beach party, social eve-
ning, picnic, buffet supper, or the like.

Station newspaper. A weekly paper preferably
printed by photo Offset.

Recreation building. The “Rec” building in-
cluding ships store; soda fountain, soft- drink
and beer dispensing facilities; barber shop;
cobbler shop; tailor shop; four bowling alleys;
four pool tables; four ping—pong tables; game
room for quiet games such as chess, checkers,
and acey ducey ; lounge room with radio-vic-
trola and piano.

Opt—station special events. Sightseeing tours,
fishing, hiking, boating and sailing and the
like.

Physical Fitness

Voluntary sports program. A variety of sports
events should be available to the men during
off-duty periods. Organized intramural leagues
and varsity teams should be promoted. Empha-
sis of the sports program should be directed
towards the policy of “sports for all hands.”

Compulsory program. This should include from
two to five hours of activity each week. Some
formalized activities should be offered.

.Swimming. Every man should be required to
attend swimming instruction classes until he
has passed the Navy’s swim test. Re-examin-
iation of all personnel should be made every
year. Recreation swimming as a part of the

physical maintenance program should be made
available daily.

Educational services. Facilities and material, as
well as leadership ,should be made available
to.the men to assist them in acquiring further
knowledge in their own fields, or other fields
that they might be pursuing.

Welfare and personal affairs. Each welfare, rec-

reation, and physical fitness officer should be
well informed on matters such as insurance,

dependents’ benefits, GI Bill of Rights, Navy
Relief, Red Cross, and other welfare activities
which are of benefit and interest to the men.

Administration

The Navy’s program of physical training, which
during the war was administered by the Training
Division of the Bureau of Naval Personnel, be-
cause of the need for personnel reduction, and to

permit greater coordination with recreation has
been placed under the Welfare Activity in the
Bureau. Except at the Navy’s three' major train-
ing centers the recreation and physical training
programs will be administered by the same officer.
At the three training centers, Bainbridge, Mary—
land; Great Lakes, Illinois; and San Diego, Cali-
fornia, the physical fitness program is a major part
of the training of new recruits for sea duty. Hence
there is need for a full-time officer to administer
the many phases of the physical fitness program at
these centers.

The Bureau of Aeronautics will continue to ad-
minister its own physical training program for
conditioning naval aviators. To accomplish this 36
officer billets have been established at air training
activities, with 15 of these assigned to Ottumwa,
Iowa, the only peacetime pre—fiight’training school.

To provide professional and, technical guidance
to the programs of physical fitness and recreation
three civilian jobs'have been established in the
Bureau of Naval Personnel, one to head up the
Section on Recreation, one to head up the Physical
Fitness Section, the third as a professional adviser
and administrative assistant to the Director of the
Special Services Division. The Bureau of Aero-
nautics has also employed one civilian to lend pro-
fessional guidance to its program of physical train-

ing. These civilian jobs will lend stability to the
program. ~ -

Finance

The Navy’s peacetime recreation program will
have to be almost totally self—supporting. That is
to say, it will have to rely on non-appropriated
funds derived mainly from profits of the Navy’s
ships stores. The present plan calls for an ex-
penditure of approximately 80 cents per man per
month on recreation, welfare and physical fitness.
Expenditure will include procurement of equip—
ment, payment of athletic officials, cost of parties,

prizes, movies, professional and clerical assistance,
and other forms of recreation.

A new system of control of Welfare Funds
(non-appropriated funds) is being developed which
will tend to equalize between the small stations
and the larger ones the amount of money available.
It will also tend to decentralize the control of this
fund from the Bureau of Naval Personnel to Dis-
trict, Force and Type Commands.

It is recognized that the large sums of monies
available for recreation purposes during the war

(Continued on page 452)

RECREATION

Home Again and Together

ND so THEY BEGAN to come
A home —-—the veterans of each
community—and many of
these young people returned with
deep new habit patterns for recreation. The veter-
ans did not always come alone for more often than
not they brought a wife or a husband. But whether
they return by themselves or with a family or 're-
mained at home during the world conflict, all our
young people have the same desire.- They want to
get reacquainted with their old friends or to meet
new friends or to get together with those who talk
their language. For many these desires have been
thwarted. As one young man in Birmingham,
Michigan, put it when he was asked to leave the
Teen Canteen, “I’m too old for the Teen Canteen
and too young for the clubs. What am I expected
to do ?” His question was answered, as were innu-
merable requests from parents and young couples,
by the creation of the 19-2-30 group at the Bir-
mingham Community House.

The basement floor (English style) ‘of the Com-
munity House had been renovated for the Teen
Canteen. The finished rooms had been presented
to the Youth Council for the use of the teen-agers
of the community. To this Council the Executive
Director came to ask assistance in creating the
19-2-30 group. After considerable discussion as
to where youth started and stopped the Youth
Council agreed that the new group should have the
use of their Ranch Room, game rooms and equip-
ment on Tuesday and Thursday nights. In return
the Teen Canteen would benefit in added revenue
from the juke box, assistance in buying and main-
taining equipment and, above all, in having the
definite satisfaction of assisting with a needed com-
munity project. '

Invitations and First Meeting

Aided by a few young people with a wide ac-
quaintance and by the Veterans Office, organizers
of the new club collected names for a mailing list.
To the people on the list we sent a large, red postal
card on which we had printed in half-inch letters
"Special Bulletin.” Below this, in normal size
type, was written, “Are you having fun in your
leisure time? Calls to the Community House have
indicated a desire by the 19 to 30 age group for a

NOVEMBER 1946

By FAYE S. JASMANN
Community House
Birmingham, Michigan

place to meet other young people
and participate in social and recre-
ation activities. Join us in the
Ranch Room on April 2 at 8.
Bring your friends and ideas with you.”

There was a good attendance at the first meet-
ing and great enthusiasm. The gathering was very
informal and no attempt was made to create a
formal organization. The group felt that they
wished time to get acquainted with one another
before they organized formally. However, they
did decide that they didn’t want dues, that they
would pay special assessments for each special
party or activity, that they would have planned
activities for Tuesday nights and informal activity
for Thursday nights, that the hours of gathering
should be from 8 to I I (they were working people

or mothers), and that they wanted a square dance
two weeks ‘later.

Programs and Plans for Programs

The following Thursday night was spent infor-
mally with several mixers at the beginning of the
evening to stimulate the group and set the young
peOple on the road toward becoming better ac-
quainted with each other. There were a large num-
ber of newcomers who introduced themselves and
were soon part of the original group. Since then
Thursday evenings are spent playing all kinds of
card games, checkers, chess and other quiet games;
in playing billiards and ping-pong; in dancing;
taking turns behind the snack bar mixing fancy
sodas, dreaming up new sundaes or frying ham-
burgers; and lots of good conversation.

On Tuesday nights there has been planned ac-
tivity including an evening of progressive games
and bingo, an evening of square dancing with a
caller and instructor from the Ford group in Dear-
born, a roller skating party at a rink which the
group rented for the evening in a nearby village,
a hay ride, and a weenie roast. The future plans
include a night of bowling, a boat ride on the river
with a picnic, bicycle hikes, scavenger hunt, treas-
ure hunt and more picnics. .

A birthday book is kept for the group and on the
night of a birthday, or a near birthday, the gang
gathers round to sing Happy Birthday, to dedi-

( Continued on page 453)
431

Tigertown
Jamboree

By HAROLD HAINFELD
Direcfor of Summer Program

Physical Education Deparfmenf
Union City. New Jersey

ENAFLY, NEW JERSEY (population 9,500) had
Tits first carnival in almost 20 years on Septem-

ber 2 and 3. The Tigertown Jamboree was
sponsored by the Recreation Commission and run
by teen-agers to raise money for the completion of
the Tenafly youth center, The Tigers Den. A
year ago the youngsters had a teen—age center
located in a building on private property, but com-
plaints from the neighbors of ‘the noise of music
and jitterbugging feet caused the original Tigers
Den to be closed. Not disheartened, the young
people appealed to the civic authorities to get a
new center for them. With the aid of public dona-
tions, surplus army barracks were procured from a
Bomb Disposal Unit located near Route 9W in
Palisade Interstate Park. The building was too
large to be moved as one unit so the high school
boys and their dads with the help of TenaHy Road
Department employees and the Borough Engineer
dismantled and transported the barracks to Tena-
iiy and erected it on borough-owned property.
Needing additional money
for the completion of the
Tigers Den (flooring,
plumbing, side walls and
fill), the teen-agers met in
the home of Mr. R. A:
Nast, member of the Ten-
afly Board of Education
and its representative on
the Recreation Commis-
sion. Here plans were
formulated for the Tiger-
town Jamboree to be held
on Labor Day and the fol—
lowing evening.

Preparations

Committees of teen-agers
were appointed and an
adult advisory council con—

432

sisting of Mr. Nast, the chairman of the Recrea-
tion Commission and the Recreation Director was
formed. An entertainment committee was set up
to select a band and to provide a program during
the intermission. This group chose Dick Barrett’s
Band, a teen—age outfit that had recently won na-
tional honors in a contest held at Carnegie Hall
for bands whose members were under 19 years
of age.

A publicity committee was formed to design
posters and handbills. One of the dads arranged
for a movie trailer which was shown in the local
theaters to advertise the coming jamboree. The
refreshment committee obtained sugar from the
GPA and made apples on a stick, fudge, cake,
cookies and candy to be sold at the refreshment -
booth. I The iinancial committee kept records of

expenditures and income and handled the rafiie
books.

Fun for All

The booths, rented for the occasion, weredec-
orated by the boys and girls. Some prizes for the
booths were purchased by the adult advisory coun-
cil. Others were donated by local merchants. The
railway station and the parks and streets surround-
ing it were chosen as the site for the party and the
streets were blocked off. The booths were set up
in the park. Football and baseball throwing booths
were in charge of highschool athletes. Teen-agers
were in the other booths supervising the basketball
throw, the pop pistol range, darts and ring toss.

(Continued on page 452)

 

Photo by Mary Caughlan

RECREATION

Di rector’s Lot

reation director—or is it?
Mr. and Mrs. John 
Public, those characters who
foot the bills so that their progeny may grow up
to become fine, upstanding citizens, pass by the
playground on a warm summer day and see two
men talking with a group of children. Both Mr.
and Mrs. John  are acquainted with the men.
They all met when the community launched its
recreation program. The perspiring gentlemen
are the director of recreation and the director’s
playground leader.

“My,” says Mrs. John  to her sometimes
hard—to-fathom spouse, “my, isn’t it nice to have
such men serving us P”

“Sure is,” returns Mr. John Q. “Not a worry
nor a care in the world for them. Just time to
play with the little ones and the big ones.”

“Oh, now John,” interrupts the lady. “I
wouldn’t say that. They probably have their little
problems, just like you do at the office.”

“Bah,” snorts Mr. John Q., “I’d trade mine for

theirs any day.”
Oh, would you; Mr. John Q.? Let’s take a

IT’S LOTS OF FUN to be a rec-

peak 'behind the curtain of a recreation director’s I

life and see what gives. Let’s see what some of
his problems are, some of his headaches. Let’s
weigh them afterward and see whether you’d care
to trade your bundle of worries for his.

The Time Problem

To begin with, there’s that thing called time. A
director is fighting it continually. He’s got a
schedule to complete, a full 12 months schedule.
Part of that schedule is softball. The master soft-
ball schedule is arranged before league competi-
tion opens in the spring. Then there are fields to
get into shape, umpires and scorers to hire, equip-
ment to purchase perhaps you realize how scarce
it is these days), and publicity to get out to the
newspapers.

Everything is all arranged for the big opening
game. The mayor has been persuaded to toss the
first ball. A commissioner will be there to catch
it. (He had to be talked to, of course.) A myriad
details have been taken care of, down to seeing
that that hole in the screen backstop has been
repaired. Then what happens? Bang, it comes up

NOVEMBER 1946

By BERNARD BALLANTINE

Director of Recreation
Roseville. Michigan

rain! The opener is postponed
and the director starts revamp- ,
ing his schedule. And this goes

on and on through the sum-
mer as inevitable rain falls.

It’s the same in baseball and tennis and other
regularly scheduled sports — revamping, revising,
making up new assignments, particularly for
umpires and scorers whose time often is limited
to certain days or nights of the week.

And the People !

Now let’s hop over to the social field. One of
the director’s playground leaders tells him that the
recalcitrant Johnny Jones up and smacked the
leader’s woman assistant this morning while the
leader was absent. Not only did he strike the
woman, the director tells his boss, but he also
called her names and then took off for home.

The director thinks he can straighten things out,
and at the same time make a better boy of Johnny.
He will go to Johnny’s mother. She is a registered
nurse. Certainly she will understand that Johnny’s
conduct was detrimental to everybody and repri-
mand him as any mother should.

Johnny’s mother is visited. The director ex-
plains what happened at the playground this morn-
ing. Mrs. Jones is flabbergasted, of course. But
she doesn’t believe it. “Why, my Johnny wouldn’t
do anything like that, not my Johnny.” The di-
rector begins to think that perhaps he got into the
wrong home. Then he spots Johnny in the back-
yard. “Call Johnny in' here,” the director urges
the mother. “L’et’s hear what he’s got to say.”
Johnny comes in at his mother’s behest.

“Johnny,” the director addresses the youth,
“did you strike Miss Blank at the playground this
morning and swear at her?”

“Sure,” Johnny answers boldly. “She scolded
me for throwing sand around.”

“I still don’t believe it,” Mrs. Jones declares

bluntly.

“Madam,” the director asserts, “I guess there
isn’t much else I can do to convince you that
Johnny was wrong in his actions. You, not Johnny,
are the one who is in need of assistance.”

With his blood pressure 20 degrees above nor-
mal the director returns to his office. He finds a

(Continued on page 438)
433

Young Foresters

THREE-RING CIRCUS come to town—that’s
A what handling a forestry training camp for
_, .1 105 farm boys full of youthful energy is like.
From 114 chapters of the Future Farmers of
America in Florida, outstanding members were
chosen to attend the annual Forestry Training
Camp put on by the Florida Forest Service and
paid for by the six Florida pulp mills of the South-
ern Pulpwood Conservation Association. Held
annually at Camp O’Leno—a State park—on the
banks of the Santa Fe River near High Springs,
the two-week course provides not only training in
proper forestry practices but recreation and en-
tertainment as well. "

The boys proved excellent students-——and hearty
eaters. Nearly all of them came back for seconds
and thirds and a few even returned boldly for
fourths and fifths. The chief cook, who had seen
service in the Navy Seabees as a cook, was used
to hearty eaters but his eyes opened up wide as
the boys continued their return trips to the 'serv—
ing table.

Just to show you that their APPETITES were
spelled in capital letters, here are a few statistics:
In two weeks, the boys consumed 720 pounds of
potatoes, 964 pounds of meat, 101 pounds of
onions, 300 pounds of cabbage, and 216 pounds of
tomatoes. And the
meat wasn’t all
hash, either! On
several occasions
they had steaks
and rolled roast
beef. They con—
sumed 369 loaves
of bread, 2,280
doughnuts 890
quarts of fresh
m i l k, a n d 2 4
pounds of coffee.

They wouldn’t
have been a bunch
of real boys if they
hadn’t come up
with their share of
stumped toes, cuts,
scratches, little in-
fections, poison
ivy, stomach aches

434

~——-and all those aches and little illnesses every
active teen-ager runs into. And they did, all right!
But a top—notch first aid man, plus a nearby
doctor, prevented anything too serious. Even so,
the camp medical bill ran up to $108.10.

Knowing full well how one husky youngster
keeps mother busy all the time, you might wonder
how 105 could be handled without a regiment to
keep them in line. That’s not as tough as it
might sound. This summer there were only 17
adults in charge of operations at the camp—13
teachers and four persons who handled actual ad-
ministration problems. In addition, there was the
kitchen personnel—a chief cook, two cook’s help-
ers, and three boys who set ahd cleared tables,
washed dishes, and cleaned the kitchen.

Life certainly wasn’t dull for the leaders, and
delinitely not for the boys. Competition may or
may not be the spice of life but it occupied the
greater part of the working hours of the young-
sters. From the time the siren blew in the morn-
ing to wake them until the time it blew lights out,

- every boy tried to outdo the others whether it was

trying to be first to chow or to show up best in
class. '

(Continued on page 438)

 

RECREATION

WORLD
AT
PLAY

CHILDREN’S BOOK
WEEK will be held in

1946 at the calendar spot
scheduled for it each year — November 10-16.

Celebrations of all kinds in line with its 1946
slogan, “Books Are Bridges,” will be held in many
communities throughout the country by many dif-
ferent kinds of groups whose work is concerned in
whole or in part with children. Bookstores, libra-
ries, schools, recreation departments will take
official note again during this week’s celebrations
both of the child’s needs for excellent reading ma-

terial and of some of the many answers to that
need.

Book Week

 

UNDER recreation depart—
ment leadership in Mont-
, . pelier, Vermont, pupils
in the parochial and public high schools are taking
an annual hand in running the affairs of the town
and so learning the ways of city government. Each
year- boys and girls from each school are_sel.ected
because of outstanding scholarship and leadership.
In each school the student body elected from the
candidates presented four young people who would,
for a day, take over the functions of the eight
public officials charged with running the city. Dur-
ing the morning of Youth Day these eight boys
and girls learn from their adult counterpart about
his job. In the afternoon they meet in a council
session and transact routine city affairs. At a
luncheon given for the pro tem administration in
1946 the Governor of the State and the State Rec-
reation Director shared the honors of the day.

Youth Day

STUDENTS at the Uni-
versity of Washington in
Seattle had their own
contest this spring for the best script for a musical
show to be presented on the campus. About 100
students worked on the production called They

Musical Show

NOVEMBER ' 194.6

 

u  i i x WEEK"

. i FIBER I045 I946

 

C an’t Do This which was chosen from 10 dramatic
scripts and 20 musical scores. Many of the Uni-
versity’s academic departments cooperated in mak-
ing the show a success. The theme for this year’s
productionwas racial tolerance. Plans for next
year include a full week of productions.

SAN F RANCIsco’s Rec-
reation Department has
an up-and-coming weav-
ing center. Servicemen returned from the war vie
with Girl Scouts and Campfire Girls in turning
fine fabrics off the twenty-odd looms set up for
the use of anyone who is interested. Not the least
important factor in the popularity of the weaving
center is the outstanding specialist in the art whose
expert instruction and advice are available to any
weaver who wants it.

Weaving Center

Two popular features of
Winona, Minnesota’s
year-round recreation

program are an indoor archery range and pICI‘IIC
suppers for children.‘ Anyone interested in arch.-

ery may use the range built in one of the city’s
indoor centers. Many boys make their own bows

in craft classes.
Games, picnic suppers and dancmg lure young-
sters each week to another recreation center.

Winter Program

435

436 WORLD A T PLA Y

Playgrounds Are Born—~Some playgrounds
are created by legislation and appropriation of
funds for the purpose. Others are born in the
minds and hearts of a few people in a community
—~—a few people who see a need and, with a gleam
in their eyes and children on their minds, set about
to fill it. One such ground came into being in
Omaha, Nebraska, where the driver of an ambu—
lance became seriously disturbed at the number of
children killed or injured because their only play-
ground was the street. He found a vacant lot, got
the owner’s permission to use it as a playground,
persuaded the city fathers to clean it of weeds and
grade it. Almost before you could say, “Jack
Robinson,” the youngsters had moved their base-
ball game from the street to their new and safe
quarters.

' In Denver, Colorado, a playground grew from
the concerted efforts of members of the Lions Club.
In 1943 these men presented a passion play. The
_ money received in admissions was put to work for
youngsters in the community and, three years later,
a well—equipped playground was opened for their
use.

0

Toward the F uture—The Metropolitan Park
District of Tacoma, Washington, has recently re—
vised its list of long range projects for the im—
provement and extension of its areas and facilities.
The projects total approximately $2,000,000 of
which $781,600 are for the improvement of play—
grounds and the development of new facilities on
playgrounds; $298,000 for bathing beach develop-
ment; $100,000 for new tennis courts, baseball
diamonds and picnic units; $5,000 for day camp—
ing improvements, and $100,000 for a salt water
swimming pool. 1

For the Crippled Child—The boy or girl who
is physically handicapped need not be excluded
from the experience of camping. For example the
Pennsylvania Society for Crippled Children main—
tains a camp for such youngsters in the Pocono
Mountains. A very popular activity there is the
nature study period.

His Own Playground—An enterprising and
imaginative father in Charlestown, Massachusetts,
has turned his backyard into a playground com—
plete with slides and swings, swimming and wad—
ing pool. Five hundred dollars for materials, some
hard but interesting work and a good deal of in—
genuity has transformed a 60’x4o’ yard into a
world of fun for a neighborhood.

Memorial Wheel Chair Club—~W’ilkes-Barre,
Pennsylvania, has an unusual kind of club. The
end and aim of the organization is to provide wheel
chairs on loan to people who need them and can-
not afford to buy them. Individuals or organiza—
tions donate the chairs, or groups set up clubs and
raise money to purchase them. A chair given as a
memorial is so marked with a plaque, and simple
records of loans and returns are kept by the clubs.

Youth Workshop—~August 15 and 16 were
days set aside to consider the needs of Georgia’s
young people. At that time a Youth Workshop,
planned cooperatively by teen-agers and adults, was
held in Macon. Young people and workers with
young people came together from all over the State
under the aegis of the Georgia. Citizens’ Council
to study ways in which young people can most
effectively incorporate their activities into commu—

nity living.

Workshop—A new activity has recently been
added to Chicago’s roster of. recreation possibili—
ties. The Chase Park Radio Workshop is open to
any resident of the city who is over 16 years of age
and is interested in radio acting or writing. This
group is presenting a radio series known as Play-
ground of the People over WGNB. The scripts
are written, acted and produced by members of the
\Norkshop and consist of dramatic episodes cen-
tering in one or another of Chicago’s recreation
opportunities.

Project for the People—~Citizens of Love-
land, Colorado, have their eyes glued on a recrea-
tion park that is taking shape as rapidly as dirt-
moving machinery can clear and prepare 92 acres
of land along the river that bounds the city’s south-
ern edge. When it is complete the park will in-
clude facilities for golf and softball, boating and
skating, horseback riding and tennis and shuffle-
board and trap-shooting as well as playground
equipment for the small fry. In addition there
will be a Boy Scout center and a special section
for 4-H Club members.

Anniversary Publication—From Wellington,
New Zealand, comes Tararua Stery, published to
mark the Silver Jubilee of the Tararua Tramping
Club. The book is a record of the history and de-
velopment of an organization devoted to tramping
(“hiking . . . is frowned upon by all full—blooded

mountain clubs in New Zealand”) and moun—
taineering.

RECREATION

C//€  VWZ§

Finest Performance

under all playing

conditions over the

longest period of time.

VOLLEY BALL
CV4

AIHIIHC

' ' mum":
1600 E. 25th Street, los Angeles 11 0 180 No. Wocker Drive, Chicago 6

NOVEMBER 1946

 

438 DIRE C TOR’S LO T

Director's Lo’r
( Continued from page 433)

phone number to call. He dials the number and
quickly learns that Mrs‘. Blotz is on the other end
of the line.

“Oh, yes,” Mrs. Blotz begins after learning that
she is talking to' the recreation director. “My
Albert came home crying today from the checkers
tournament. I asked him what he was crying
about and he said he got beat in the checker finals
by a big kid from some other playground. I don’t
think it’s fair to pit those bigger boys against the
smaller ones, do you? My Albert, you knOW, is
only four feet six inches tall.” ’

The director explains that the playground chil—
dren are grouped according to ages, and compete
only in their particular age group. Size has noth-
ing to do with games that require no physical con-
tact. “Maybe Albert competed among the seniors
by some mistake,” the director tries to console
Mrs. Blotz. “I will check with the man who
handled the checkers tournament and find out. By
the way, Mrs. Blotz, how old is Albert?”

“He’s i 5,” Mrs. Blotz answers.

“In that case,”. the director tells 'Mrs. Blotz,
“Albert should have competed as a senior. Our
senior age group is from I4 years up. And if
Albert did compete as a junior, I don’t think he
should feel too upset about getting defeated by a
younger boy, even though the other boy was
bigger. Do you think so, Mrs. Blotz ?”

“Yes I do,” she scoffs. “I still think it’s'unfair
to match the bigger ones against the smaller.”

“I’m sorry that you still feel that way, Mrs.
Blotz,” the director speaks politely, “but that’s the
way our program is operated. It seems to be very
satisfactory with the majority.”

“Not for my money,” Mrs. Blotz howls as she
slams down the receiver and comes within two
tones of bursting the director’s ear drum.

The director sits back in his chair for a moment
and tries to relax until his hearing becomes nor-
mal. But he can’t repose for long. There’s book-
keeping to attend to, letters to write, telephone
calls to make, planning to be done. Yes, it’s plan-
ning, planning, and more planning.

The playground season is nearly finished and
there’s planning to be done for the fall and winter
seasons. Plans for the Youth Club which meets
weekly under the director’s supervision; plans for
handcraft and hobby clubs and such indoor activi-
ties as table tennis, chess, checkers, dramatics,

badminton and photography. Soon it will be time
to organize men’s and women’s gymnastics classes
and after that basketball leagues for junior boys,

senior men, and girls.

All of this means work, Mr. John 9., much
mental work with its resultant headaches. Maybe
you get your share of the latter at the office. How-
ever, we’ll wager anything the recreation direct-
or’s aspirin supply is as large, if not larger, than
that of any executive in any other line of endeavor.

Still want to trade your woes, Mr. John Q.? .

Young Foresters
( Continued from page 434)

Softball and swimming proved to be favorite
sports, but horseshoes, shuffleboard, table tennis,
and volley ball attracted their share of attention.
One youngster proved himself resourceful enough
to rig up a fishing pole and line. Every morning
while the rest of the boys were still coming back
for extra servings, he would walk into the mess
hall with one or two bream which he gave to the
cooks who saved them until they had enough and
then had a little feast in the kitchen.

One of the highlights of the camp was stunt
night when the boys themselves put on a program
of entertainment. They proved a little timid at
first but quickly forgot themselves in the fun of
singing and telling stories. And as soon as one
performer finished, the group would turn to an-
other and call for him to perform.

Fun is not the only thing at the camp. It is
planned for two weeks of instruction and actual ‘
participation in forestry problems. Just about
everything in the book is taught to the boys dur-
ing the two weeks, and if they return for their
second year they have a good foundation in what
correct'forestry principles are.

The idea of the camp is not to make technical
foresters of the boys, but to equip them for better
management of their farm woodlands. What they
learn may be measured in cash values to be re—
ceived from better forestry practices on their farm
forests.

Subjects taught the boys attending the camp for
the first time are: Tree Identification, Forestry
Tools, Gum Farming, Nursery Practice, Forest
Protection, Farm Forestry, and'Timber Manage-
ment. In addition they are taken on side trips to
see in actual operation the theory they have studied.

(Continued on page 444)

RECREATION

WEAVER FEATURES

Here they are, ready for full play, made by the  E SALES COMPANY ::._ v

exc'05‘ve Weaver Pm‘ess 5W“ 0 high m°d“'"5 35":-  mmu's roumasr mum: IOUH’MW u: (
rubber compound. Even-gauge walls and needle  Box 11 . _ . . SHAMOJQN' 9A,; __ . 1

t

valve molded as an integral part of the ball.  k _ in“

 

440

BOWLING 0 N0 PIN-BUYS

RECREATION CENTERS o SCHOOLS
INSTITUTIONS
CLUBS AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS

now can have BOWLING at a fraction
of the cost of regulation alleys.

Sand for descriptive circular!

TWO-WAY BOWLING CORP.

|l4 East 32nd Street New York City
OOOOOOOOOOOOOC

Back Again

IF YOU WERE FAMILIAR with A. S..Barnes and Com-
pany’s Sports Bulletin for Girls and Women
before its war-enforced leave-of-absence from the
list of Barnes publications, you will be glad to
know that it is again in circulation. If you did not
know the Bulletin in prewar days you will proba—
bly want to find out more about it.

The Sports Bulletin will be published six tinies
in successive months during this school year. It
will be edited by Miss Alice Schriver, former
chairman of the NSWA. It is directed toward
teachers and students of physical education, pri-
marily in high schools. Its subject matter will be
concerned with physical education, recreation,
methods, new ideas, new games and the like.

For further information address Sports Bul—
letin, A. S. Barnes and Company, 67 West 44th
Street, New York I8, N. Y.

 

 

Citation to Firestone Tire .and
Rubber Company

(Continued from page 403)

This award by the Navy is in recognition and
appreciation of the value of the series of booklets
known as Fun en Route, More Fun en Route, and
l/Vorld O’Fun, millions of which were made pos-
sible by the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company
and used by naval personnel on transports, landing
crafts, hospitals, submarines and out-of—the-way
posts. This cooperation of the Firestone Tire and
Rubber Company with the National Recreation
Association, publishers of the books, together with
donations of Firestone Record Albums of classical
music resulted in enriching the Navy’s recreation
program throughout the world.

CHRISTMAS IN RECREATION MAGAZINE

Christmas in RECREATION

Magazine

I932-|945

Cincinnati Plans a Merry Christmas

Ma'bel Madden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Novemlber
Christmas Tree—A Beloved Tradition, The

Marie F. Heisley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Novemlber
Games for the Christmas Season . . . . . . . .N'ovemnber
Plea for Yuletide Singing, A .

A. D. Zanzig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..December
Philadelphia Plans a Merry Christmas

Charles H. English . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..November
When You Do Your Christmas Planning . [November
When Christmas Comes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December
Children’s Christmas Party, A

Thomas W. Lantz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Niovemlber
Christmas Play for Everyone, The . . . . ..November
Oakland’s Christmas Pageant

Harry E. Troxel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..December
When Christmas Comes . . . . . . . . . . . . . “November
For a Merry Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Decemlber
Three-in-one Christmas Program, A . . . . Novemlber
Christmas Miracle, A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Decemiber
Community Christmas, A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December
Dancing the Christmas Story . . . . . . . . . . .November
New Toys From Old . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “November

Preparing for Christmas Celebrations...Novem'ber
Santa Claus and His Fairyland

James R. Newcom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November
Christmas Everywhere . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December
Christmas Festivals, Masques, and

Pantomimes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Decemfber

-On Twelfth Night . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..December

Hartford Celebrates Christmas—And the
Nativity is Presented, John M. Hurley February
Christmas Present to Decatur, A

R. Wayne Gill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November
Creative C ommitnity Christmas, A

A. D. Zanzig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November
City Celebrates Christmas in Drama

J. Lee Harnes, Jr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Dece.mber
Community Christmas Party, A

Clark L. Fredrikson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..December
Christmas in Hartford . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .DecemIber
M odernieing the Christmas Legend ‘

Nevin Nichols . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December
Christmas Caroling on Wheels . . . . . . . . ..Noverrilber
Twelfth Night Festival, A

T. Bancroft Rice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November
It Happened Last Christmas November
Christmas Comes to Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . .November
Christmas in the Community .

A. D. Zanzig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Novem-ber

Polar'Christmas Party, A, Leah Sewell. .Novemiber

Christmas in Sweden, Elin Lindberg. . . . .Decem‘ber
Lucia Dagen, Jonathan Sax . . . . . . . . . . . ..December
Christmas Wrapping Paper . . . . . . . . . . . . .December

Gifts Are Not Always Brought by Santa . . November

Christmas Novelties for Everyone
Marguerite Ickis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..November

1932

1932
1932

1932

.1933

1933
1933

1934
1934

1934
193s
193s ,
1936
1936
1936
1937
1937
1937

1938
1938

1938
1938

1939
1939
1939
1939

1939
1939

1939
1940

1940

1940

1940

1941
1941
1941
1941
1941
1942

1942

RECREATION

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

 

Unfil recenfly man afe or wenf hungry. lived
or died. dependenf upon his success in hiffing
a moving. living fargef wifh an arrow. Our
ancesfors. for fhousands upon fhousands of years
were hunfers. AndI over fhe years. fhey puf
more meaf on fhe fable wifh fhe bow and arrow
fhan wifh all ofher weapons combined.

TodayI wafch any non-archer. so-called. picl:
up a bow. Aufomafically he raises if and pulls
fhe bowsfring foward him—in very nearly correcf
archery form. The appeal of archery is universal
because if is bedded deep in fhe insfincfs of us
all. If would be sfrange if fhis were nof so. for
virfually every race on fhe face of fhe globe has
relied on fhe bow and arrow for ifs survival.

In America our inferesf m
archery means fhaf we have now
become civilized enough fo falte
up as a sporf whaf a few cen-
furies ago was a serious busi-
ness. Buf whafever fhe cause.
and whafever fhe insfinc’rI arch-
ery is booming. In many recre-

 

 

afional organizafions. facfories.

colleges. and camps archery has quiefly become

fhe mos’r popular parficipafion sporf!

Archery is neifher fhe easiesf

nor fhe mosf difficulf of sporfs.

The beginner is grafified by a

feeling of accomplishmenf fhe

firsf day; fhe experf finds his

applicafion rewarded. Archery

fackle in inexpensive. and no

elaborafe insfallafion is needed for an archery

range. There is a Ben Pearson dealer near you
who can supply bofh informafion and faclxle.

We publish an illusfrafed arficle "How fo Shoof

wifh Bow and Arrow" which makes every reader

af leasf feel like an experf. Many archers have

learned fo shoof wifh liHle more help fhan fhis

booltlef provides. If you have an archery group

organized or planned. we will gladly send you

one copy for each member. BEN PEARSON

COMPANY. PINE BLUFF. ARKANSAS.

442

with these
HELPFUL ~

to

MA GAZINES AND PAMPHLETS

Many new titles on the
way; write today for lists!

SIMPLIFIED DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . .3150
PENCIL DRAWING, by Charles Carlson . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
SIMPLIFIED ART ANATOMY, by Charles Carlson . . . . 1.00
FASHION ILLUSTRATION, by Charlotte Young. . . . . 1.00
CLAY MODELING, by R. R. Fiore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
WATER COLOR PAINTING, by Charles Carlson. . . . 1.00
OIL PAINTING, by Charles Carlsou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

PRACTICAL FASHION SKETCHES, byCharlotte H.Young 1.00
FIGURE DRAWING WITIIO UTA MODEL, by Cliff Young 1.00
BUSINESS OF CARTOONING, by Chuck Thorndike. . . 1.00
WORKING IN LEATHER, by Margaret Ickis . . . . . . . . 1.00
PRACTICAL IIOSIE DECORATING, by Eleanor Lee. . . 1.00

FUNDAMENTALS OF WOODWORKING,

by Harry C. Helfman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS

80 East Ilth Street

“Christmas Just Pops”

Martha Macon Byrnes . . . . . . .~. . . . . . . November
Christmas Time in Dauville ‘

George A. Fairhead . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Novem»ber
Christmas Story Comes to Life, A

Grace Stanistreet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Decem-ber
Christmas Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..December
Feast of the Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..December
Creative Community Christmas, A . . . . ..November
Christmas Town in Moonbeam Meadow. .November
“Deck the Halls” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Novemlber
Christmas for the Birds

Mary Daggett Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..November
Christmas at Home, A. D. Zanzig . . . . . . December
Christmas Party That Re-Creates, A

Rachel Davis-Du Bois . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Decem'ber

Hanging of the Greens, The . . . . . . . . . . ..November

Decorations by the Paritin . . . . . . . . . . . . ..November

Bedeched with Bays and Rosemary . . . . . .November

Toward a Community Christmas . . . . . . ..Noveml)er

Play for Christmas? A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “November

Children’s Christmas Program . . . . . . . . . . November

Festival of Light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Novemlber
Christmas in San Francisco. 1945

Lydia Patzett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .December
Santa C0mes to Roselan-d '

S. W. Hudson, Jr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Decem'ber
Custom of Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Decemlber

New York 3. N. Y.

 

1942
1942

1942
1942
1942
1943
1943
1943

1943
1943

1943
1944
1944
1945
1945
1945
1945
1945

1945

1945
1945

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of 2
1 Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZINES

Scholastic Coach, September 1946
High School Foot-ball Rules Changes, H. V. Porter.
Football for Graders? Lyman L. Bryan

Junior League Magazine, October 1946
How to Read a Play, Helenka A. Pantaleoni

National Parent-Teacher, September 1946 -

A New Day for the Mentally Deficient, Edward L.
Johnstone

The American City, September 1946
Along the Water-fronts, Part II

Holiday, September 1946
Having Any Fun? Malcolm S. Knowles

The Jewish Center, September 1946
The Jewish Center During the War Period, Ben-
jamin Rabino-witz

'The Child. September 1946

Trends in Day Care, Alice T. Dashiell

California Parent-Teacher, September 1946
Let’s Go Camping, Hannah Ball
Play, George Hjelte

The Nation’s Schools, October 1946
Schoolhouse Planning

Journal of Health and Physical Education, October 1946

Contributions of Sports to Women’s Fitness, Arthur
H. Steinhaus

Dance Accompaniment for Children, Mary P.
O’Donnell
The College Intramural Program, Thomas E.
McDonough

Adequate Program Standards, A Committee Report,
Vaughn S. Blanchard, chairman
The School Executive, August 1946
Gymnasiums and Playrooms (symposium)

PAM PH LETS

Christmas and the Out-of-Doors
Girl Scouts National Organization, 155 East 44th
Street, New York 17, New York. Price 65 cents
Prevention in Action (Bulletin 11)
New York State Youth Commission, 24 James Street,
Albany, N. Y.

Backyard Playgrounds (Leaflet 234)
Outdoor Cookery (Leaflet 220)

Extension Service. Massachusetts
Amherst, Massachusetts ‘

Jewish Holidays —Do You Know Them? Elise F. Moller
The Womans Press. 600 Lexington Avenue, New
York 22, N. Y. Price 15 cents
The Motion Picture—A Selected Boohlist
Published 'by the American Library Association. 50

E. Huron Street. Chicago 11. Illinois and Warner
Brothers Pictures, Inc.

Swimming Pool Operation (Educational Health Circular
No. 125)

State. of Illinois, Department of Public Health. Di-
v1s10n of Sanitary Engineering. Springfield, Illinois.
Recreation —Program and Guide to Fall and Winter
Activities, 1946-47
Playground Department, St. Paul, Minnesota
Proposed System 6] Recreational Facilities, City of Detroit
(No. 2 1n a series) August 1946

City .Plan Commission, 901 Griswold Building, '1214
Griswold Street, Detroit 26. Michigan

RECREATION

State College.

o--..—-
0

STATE RECREATION NEWS NOTES " 443

 

74.. we gm a.
“QUICK BREAK”

The last word in modern basketballs for today’s high
speed game. It’s the ball for sharpshooters, fast dribblers
and “quick break" plays. Has the “laceless” feature.
Specially treated pebbled cowhide assures nonslip finger-
tip traction for better control. It’s the Wilson "CJO”—

    

nu .u
-‘1'K I“ -‘

top choice among coaches and players everywhere.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A Wilson 5' Co.. I no. subsidiary)

 

State Recreation
News Notes

U SE OF THE STATE PARKS in Texas is illustrated
in the following items reported in S-Parles
for July 1946, published by the Texas State Parks
Board: '

Boy Scout overnight camping trip. (They got 30
minutes’ sleep.)

Railroad engineers’ picnic

Family reunion picnic

' Sixuday youth conference

Farm Security Administration employees’ nsh dinner
and party

American Radio Relay League’s first postwar held day

A picnic for 144 deaf persons from 14 leading Texas
cities

Picnics for employees of business concerns

High School Senior Class dance

4—H Club g‘irls’ encamtpments

Fourth of July celebrations in many of the parks
Which broke previous attendance records.

The first meeting of the Advisory Committee on
Recreation to the Indiana Economic Council was
held in July at Indianapolis. In Indiana the Coun-

NOVEMBER 1946

113193011 H

BASKETBALL EQUIPMENT

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

cil is the State planning agency. Repre'sentatives
of the various State agencies interested in recrea-
tion described their programs and plans. An Or-
ganization_ Committee, authorized to proceed with
the organization of the Advisory Committee, meet-
ing later, selected committee chairmen for sub-
committees on research, legislation, field service
and training, public relations and standards.

F. L. McReynolds, Indiana 4-H Club agent,
stated recently that his work is concerned with the
development of "‘Individual recreation resources
in the young people of the State.”

The State of Indiana held its first training insti-
tute for park executives in the spring of this year.
The institute was sponsored by the Division of
State Parks of the Indiana Department of Con-
servation, Indiana University, and the Indiana
Park and Recreation Association. Eleven superin-
tendents of State parks and thirteen superintend-
ents of municipal park departments attended the
institute as well as a number of board members,
supervisors and others. Subjects covered almost
the whole field of park recreation, park planning,
park maintenance and park use.

444 RECOMMENDATIONS

School forests are available to any school in
Ohio. On application to the State Forester, any
school which has an acre or more of land avail-
able can secure free of charge from State nurser-
ies up to 1,000 trees per acre of land. Planting
operations must be supervised by someone who
has had at some time a successful plantation in the
community.

G. B. Fitzgerald is Consultant on Recreation in
the Physical Education Department of the Uni-
versity of fVIinne'sota. He is devoting a great deal
of his time to services of various kinds to Minne~
sota communities.

Plans have been announced by the State of
Pennsylvania for creation of 18 artificial lakes and
innumerable ponds within the next year in the
Southwestern corner of that State. The lakes and
ponds will be located within about 30 miles riding
distance of practically every home in the area and
will be designed for the pleasure of an entire

family. The work will be financed by part of the

$16,500,000 fund set aside for beautification and
conservation in Pennsylvania.

The Pennsylvania State College offered a Com-
munity Recreation Workshop, September 3-20,
1946, as part of the 1946 summer session. Fred
Coombs, formerly Assistant Superintendent of
Recreation at Greenwich, Connecticut, has just ac-
cepted an appointment as Associate Professor of
Physical Education at Pennsylvania State College

and will be giving consulting and field service to
Pennsylvania communities.

Recommendations

HE RECREATION COMMISSION of Dearborn,

Michigan, has recommended a program which
includes water lines to the ball diamonds, multiple-
use paved areas where year around activities can
be carried on such as roller skating, dancing, bas-
ketball, shuffleboard and other games, grading and
laying out of baseball and softball fields, construc-
tion of shelters, comfort stations, drinking foun-
tains, tile drainage systems for athletic fields, skat-
ing and hockey rinks, locker rooms and showers,
tennis courts, storage building and repair shop,

outdoor theater, band, shells, grandstands and well
designed community centers.

The Recreation Commission recommended to
the Mayor and Council the purchase of a large
camp site which must be included in a modern
municipal recreation program. Such a camp would

afford facilities for boys, girls, adults, and family
groups and should be in a comparatively secluded
section bordering on a body of. water suitable for
swimming. Because of the interest of other or—
ganizations in camping, the Dearborn Municipal
Camp would afford opportunities for these groups
to raise funds and provide various cabins and
other buildings for the youth of our city. Because
of year around camping, the site should lend itself
to hiking in the fall, sledding and skating in the
winter in addition to traditional camp activities
during the spring, summer, and fall for children,

' families and clubs.

Young Foresters
(Continued from, page 438)

For instance, they visited the wood industries in
Gainesville—crate mill, saw mill, moss factory, ’
excelsior mill, chemical retort plant. At Lake City
they visited the tobacto market, planting projects
already thinned for pulpwood, post. peeler plant,
and projects where selective cutting is practiced.
At Olustee they went through the naval stores sta-
tion, the nursery, and Osceola National Forest.

Second year boys on the other hand were taught
more advanced subjects such as logging and mill-
ing; marking, cruising and estimating timber
stands; and telephone line construction and main-
tenance. In each of these courses they had practi-
cal experience, actually doing the work. Under
the expert guidance of trained and technical for-
esters the boys were permitted to go into the
woods and cruise, mark and estimate the stands.

The main value of this course for the Future
Farmers of America was that it permitted them
to learn at first hand how to do the job. Then

they could return home and apply what they had
learned.

A

Citation to National Recreation .

Association
(Continued from page 403)

before and during World War II, among which

were:
Helping to mobilize the recreation forces of the
country for service in defense preparation.

Making available information about experiences
gained in the first World War.

Helping to recruit the Navy’s efficient force of
recreation and welfare personnel.

RECREATION

 

AIDS FOR YOUR PROGRAM 445

Planning and providing millions of copies of

recreation booklets for use by Naval personnel in
all parts of the world.

Advising in recreation plans for men in oc-
cupied countries waiting to come home.

Assisting Naval personnel in returning to com-
munity life.

Aids for Your Program

HERE IS PROBABLY no art so difficult as that of

combining really good entertainment with really
good teaching and doing it in such a way that the
moral doesn’t jump up and take a poke at you.
Such a combination has been worked out in a ten-
minute, 166 mm film in color and sound that will
be of especial interest to recreation workers.

Pudge came into being in response to requests
from teachers for hlms to demonstrate good social
attitudes. It is the story of a boy and his dog—of
responsibilities that go hand in hand with fun in
the relationships between a small boy, his family,
his friends and a red cocker spaniel. The “leads”
——boy and pup—are an ordinary, everyday lad
and an ordinary, everyday dog. The boy is a
member of the Palo Alto Children’s Theater which
is part of that community’s tax-supported recrea-
tion program. The dog is mascot for the same
organization. The film “does a job” for entertain-
ment and for teaching.

The Button: Go Walking is another aid for
program enrichment that comes out of the Palo
Alto Children’s Theater. It is a combination of
film strip or slides and phonograph record. It
tells the story of a family who find it difficult to
carry out their creed of “doing things together”
when they try to walk on a city’s streets. The film
strip (or slides) takes the Button family through
various walking adversities till they find that, in
the country, they can walk as they like. .The
record, on the one side narrates the story with
specially composed background music. On the
other side the recording carries the music alone.
The combination of visual material and recordings
is an excellent medium for working with young
children in the development of rhythms and rhyth-
mic play.

For further information about Pudge and The
Button: Go Walking write to Children’s Produc-
tions, Box 1313, Palo Alto, California.

NOVEMBER 1946

 

  
   

  

, ’7~ .
égbsterplece

 {i gymawi/e

mauwwwomuhmmmnn

()0y1‘fgL' Ifyhildldhlm Ammphuhu-uilkl-wu
@t—waa' mumphdnuknugumwamum
G-" Wha'mdkomlulmdmhlhmuu

mome YMCMNIudm-ymm
'lnoorlmun.

NATIONAL SPORTS EQUIPMENT CO.

NO. AAIOUEIIE. fol-Io ou IAC. WISCONSIN

Books Bring Adventure
Series III

HE THIRD Books Bring Adventure transcrip-
tion series is now ready for distribution. It
may be rented for air use over local radio stations
on sustaining time or purchased for non-air use

by groups whose equipment includes a transcrip-
tion playback.

. Like its predecessors this series is composed of
thirteen I 5-minute radio dramatizations of chil-
dren’s books. Its title is New W orlds a-Grbwin’,
and the subject matter deals with adventure in the
development of western civilization from the
twelfth through the last half of the nineteenth
centuries. The books which have been dramatized
for this series are:

Falcon Fly Back Elinore Blaisdell

Julian Messner Co.
The Hidden Treasure of Glaston Eleanore M.'Jewett
Viking Press
The Boy Knight of Reims Eloise Lounsberry
Houghton Mitilin Co.
He Went with Marco Polo Louise Adams Kent

Houghton Miinn Co.
John Bennett
Appleton-Cantu ry Co.

Master Skylark

DRURY COLLEGE LIBRARY
Springfield, Missouri

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional, Semi-Pro and Amateur Bose-
ball and Softball, in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Goidsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
marl of quality and unvarying
performance.

III-l
l I. IIII a.

.-
'...,.,..':," (7*N“-IHHATI l4. OH‘O.U.S.A

Spice and the Devil’s Cave
Mayflower Boy

Madeline Takes Command
The Golden Horseshoe
Johnny Tremain

Courage Over the Andes
By Wagon and Flatboat

On to Oregon

 

Agnes Hewes
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.

Stanley Young
Rinehart Publishing Co.

Ethel C. Brill
Whittlesey House

Elizabeth Coatesworth
Macmillan Co.

Esther Forbes
Houghton Mifiiin Co.

Frederick A. Kurnmer
John C. Winston Co.

Enid Meadowcrof t
Thomas Y. Crowel‘l Co.

Honoré Morrow
Morrow Publishing Co.

Recordings, playable on an ordinary victrola or
record player are now available for the first series
and will shortly be so for the second. The records
for any one book may be bought separately. For
further information write to Miss Gloria Chandler,
Radio Consultant, Association of Junior Leagues
of America, The VValdorf—Astoria, New York 22,

N. Y.

WOMEN GO AFTER RECREATION FACILITIES

Women Go After
Recreation Facilities

HE ENERGY and resourcefulness of the little
Ttown of Essex Center, Vermont was proven

when a group of women known as the Com-
munity Council met at the home of Mrs. Fred
Goddette to take stock of winter accomplishments
and make plans for the future. This Council was
formed at the beginning of the war. It is made up
of representatives of all organizations in town,
and although primarily meant to handle emergen—
cies stemming from the war, it has shown it is not
afraid to tackle any undertaking and is able to
accomplish whatever it sets out to (10. Its mem-
bers have found that when the community is be—
hind a project, it is easy to raise money.

(Four years ago, when a' building was needed
for Red Cross activities and for an air raid shelter,
they negotiated the acquisition of the old Congre-i
gational Church, which had been deeded to the
Methodist Church and was never used. This was
a good brick building and through the eEorts of
the president of the Outlook Club and the presid
dent of the Home Demonstration Group, per—
mission to use it for any purpose coincident with
the good of the community was secured.

The old church was in no condition to be used,
so it was decided to fix up the basement for the
time being, and to do it at once without much .
money. This was where the menfolk came in, for
like most communities, Essex has carpenters,
plumbers, repair and handy men among its resi—
dents. Everybody was interested and everybody
advised and worked, donating their time and
energies for the good of all. A cement floor was
put in, the place was painted, and running water
was piped into the building. A piano was donated.
Attics yielded rugs, pictures, kitchen utensils and
furnishings. The job was done at night after the
day’s work was over. It was speeded up by the
music of laughter.

Since then the Community Center, as it came
to be called, has served as a meeting place for the
Woman’s Club, Home Demonstration groups, 4-H
Clubs, youth organizations, farm meetings,
teachers’ receptions, parties, public health clinics,
and town meeting dinners. Red Cross sewing was
done there all through the war. The building also
houses the community loan and supply closet.

Now the upper floor is needed for an audi—
torium and for recreation. It must be thoroughly
cleaned and redecorated, the beautiful old Vene-

"RECREATION

 

DURHAM, N. C., PREPARES MUSEUM OPENING 447

I‘ tian blinds cleaned and retaped. But the roof
leaks. The belfry is rotted. It is past fixing.
The old bell must come down. No ladies’ job this,
since the bell measures four feet across.

But there are men in town with ladders and
ropes and skill and experience in such matters.
It has been suggested that some of them, in their
younger days, may even have climbed to this old

belfry on a dark October night. For the village'

.bell has been known to ring long and loud on
Hallowe’en, and so far as townspeople can recall,
. nobody ever saw spook or goblin pulling the bell
rope.

So the bell will come down, and a new roof will
be put on, and money and labor are essential. A
committee of women have been holding dances and
card parties to earn the money. Some gifts have
been received. They now have $400 to start the
roof.

Labor? Why the men are going to donate that.
Some of them have already offered—or their
wiveS'have offered for them. The women have
promised to serve a sumptuous dinner to the men
who come to work on the roof and who—they
ask—would want to miss that?

This isn’t the first time the women of this town
have set out to get a building for their community.
About 14 years ago they needed a library, so they
entered a newspaper contest, won1an automobile,
sold it and used the money to build a library, a
tribute to a group of women who dared to do
what everybody said couldn’t be done.

N ow,they are giving a repeat porformance and
soon will have a model community center, ready
to serve the people, and encourage other towns to
do likewise—Margaret Ayers.

 

Durham, North Carolina,
Prepares Museumfor
Early Opening

HE CITY OF DURHAM, through its progressive
Director of Recreation, Mr. C. R. Wood, has
in cooperation with the William T. Hornaday Me-
morial Foundation, taken steps to establish a chil-
dren’s nature museum for the young people of

Durham. _
The City of Durham is providing a most at-

NOVEMBER 1946

 

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop

forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

IDiamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes '
Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE' COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

tractive small building situated in the middle of a
lovely bird sanctuary, part of the city park system.
The Hornaday Foundation is .providing a trained
museum consultant, to assist in laying out both
the outdoor and indoor equipment for the chil-
dren’s museum. Valuable museum specimens are
also being supplied by the Foundation. Construc-
tion of a turtle pond, snake pit, wild flower garden,
fern garden, will soon be under way. The building
.of museum cases to house the museum’s exhibit
material will be done in the museum building.

Miss Miriam L. Evans, field consultant for the
Hornaday Foundation will arrive in Durham on

June Ist to open a popular nature study prOgram
for the children of Durham, which will be carried

on during the three summer months.

The development of a larger children’s museum
to be located in the center of the city is under con-
sideration in the fall. This children’s museum will
be" carried on in conjunction with the present chil-
dren’s nature museum.—-—Taken from New Hori-

zons, March-April, 1946.

448

Community Organization
and Planning*

Community Surveys

WE HAVE A DOG that, whenever she is embar-

rassed or confused, stops and ostentatiously
scratches herself. Scratching is useful when there
are fleas, but often seems to serve only to create
a semblance of purposeful activity.

Community surveys are helpful when effective
action is being hindered by lack of accurate infor-
mation. However, as a substitute for vital commu-
nity living they are commonly sterile. Sometimes
we find elaborate surveys being carried on as a
sort of mystic ceremony having virtue in itself,

while obvious needs and opportunities for neigh- -

borliness and friendship are disregarded. In such
cases surveys may serve to give a sense of relief
from social responsibility, an unearned feeling of
“doing something about it.” Sometimes formal
surveys actually becloud and confuse very simple
human relationships, until one is remindedof the

familiar lines:
The centipede was happy quite

Until a toad in fun

Said, “Pray which leg comes after which?”
That worked her mind to such a pitch,

She lay distracted in a ditch,

Considering how to run.

 

"Re rinted by permission from Community Service News, May-
une, 1946.

 

 

Corrections

Two ERRORS occui'red in articles in the Septem-
ber issue of RECREATION for which apologies
and corrections are in order. The title of the
:author of Recreation on Welfare Island (page
.304) should be “Maxwell Lewis, Superintendent,

Home for Dependents, Welfare Island, New
York.”

In the article Antidote to Loneliness the sen-
tence on page 335 which reads “It seemed almost
impossible to find a suitable place in the French
Quarter until the School Board came to the rescue,”
should read “. . . until the Playground Community
.Service Commission came to the rescue,”- accord-
ing to L. di Benedetto, Manager and Assistant
.Secretary for that organization.

Our thanks to Mr. Lewis and Mr. di Benedetto
lfor giving us an opportunity to correct these errors.

OPERA BY THE PEOPLE

Opera by the People

USIC HAS BEEN a main program emphasis this
year for the Indianapolis Department of
Parks and Recreation. The season culminated in
three performances of Noel Coward’s opera, Bitter
Sweet, which played to audiences totaling over
27,000. "
What is probably the most ambitious out-of-door
musical program ever presented in this State came

as a result of the hard work and tireless efforts of.

Mr. Paul V. Brown, Director of Indianapolis De-
partment of Parks. He was assisted by a large
civic committee of men and women who gave
generously of their time and talents to make pos-
sible a major event of such tremendous proportions.

On the stage in front of the grandstand at the
Indiana State Fairgrounds, difficult staging prob-
lems had to be met. Steel towers which would
withstand a 40-mile-an-hour gale were erected to
support scenery towering 20 feet with no covering
or other protection against the elements. Lighting
and sound required the utmost skill in engineering
to insure undistorted production of the voices in
their various nuances. Special insect bombs were
used to prevent destruction of color gelatins, and
problems of blending the lighting into the evening
sky were overcome. The Superintendent of Plan-
ning for the Indianapolis Parks augmented his
staff with experts in stage design and construction.

Paid admissions were estimated at around 9.000
but there were 10,000 free seats at each of the
three performances. Although the production was
not entirely self-sustaining, sufficient funds were
made available through donations and fund raising
events to prevent an “in the red” conclusion.

The opera season was made possible through
the wholehearted cooperation of the Indiana State
Fair Board which gave the use of the grounds and
grandstand, the Indianapolis Department of Parks
and Recreation, and a newly formed organization
known as the Indianapolis Theater Association
headed by Joseph Bloch, a member of the Park
Board. An army of volunteers representing civic
clubs, musical organizations, business groups,

luncheon groups, department stores, music shops 

as well as numerous individuals gave their support.

In his curtain talk following the opening per-
formance the Director of the Indianapolis Opera
Theater said, “Indianapolis and Indiana can be
very proud of this occasion because it is all home
talent. These are our own singers, our own pro—-
duction stan and designers. If you want opera

RECREATION

F

(l

 

MAKING PLAYGROUNDS OUT OF BACKYARDS 449

next year and the year after, you can have it, but
we will need your support and financial backing
in such a tremendous undertaking.”

Plans are rapidly being completed for the erec-
tion of an Open Air Amphitheater which will be
financed through a bond issue. This huge plant
will be complete in every detail and will include
rehearsal stages, adequate dressing and costume
rooms and a stage sufficiently large to employ the
latest techniques in outdoor sets and operatic

pageantry.

This is the third season of opera here. Two
Gilbert and Sullivan Operas have been presented.
With' Bitter Sweet a new high was reached in
musical pleasure. It is noteworthy that lead parts
were assigned through auditions and young singers
were given consideration throughout the casting
of chorus and leads. It is hoped that a longer

season can be given next year. Four weeks as the
very minimum is the present plan.

 

Making Playgrounds Out of
Backyards and Living Rooms

POLIo! THIS DREAD DISEASE made its appear-
ance in epidemic proportions in Minneapolis
during July and August of 1946 and brought to a
halt practically every group activity for children.
Upon the advice of Dr. Frank Hill, City Health
Commis’sioner, all activities for children under 15
years of age were cancelled. This meant that our
annual children’s playground circus, one of the
feature events of the summer season, was out.
More than three weeks of nightly community sings
were cancelled. Play—offs in softball, baseball, and
city-wide checker and horseshoe tournaments
could not be held. In short, the whole machinery
for the recreation of a city of more than a half
million people ground to a stop.

The Health Commissioner recommended that
children should be confined to their own neigh-
borhoods and to playing with the children in their
immediate vicinity. The children were not able
_ to attend their local playgrounds.

So it became a problem of what to do to keep
children happy and occupied and at the same time
confine them to a limited play area. The ‘Minne-
apolis Daily Times asked the Park Department to
make suggestions on games and stunts that chil-
dren might do in small groups and within a

limited space.

NOVEMBER 1946

First Name in Trampolining
Creates Another "First"

The I947

watt/.1

TRAMPOLINE

LIGHTER—STURDIER—EASY TO MOVE
Folds Compact—Foolproof in a Jiffy

FOR INDOOR— OUTDOOR USE

. Almost a decade ago Nissan—the ORIGINAL—
Trampoline introduced the bounding. body-building
sport of Trampolining.

O .Educators—Military trainers have found its value
in actual use.

Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
zoo A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IowA

 

These suggestions were included in a full page
spread in the Minneapolis Daily Times on four
different nights. The Times then asked for sug-
gestions from the readers themselves and more
than 900 game ideas were submitted.

All of the radio stations in the Twin City area
cooperated with George Grim, columnist of the
Minneapolis Morning Tribune and radio person—
ality, in his appeal to them to use appropriate time
each day for the broadcasting of programs enter-
taining to children, and Grim himself reverted to
his first radio role of Uncle Ray who read the
comics to his youthful audience every evening.
Station KUOM of the University of Minnesota
which had no commercial commitments turned
over the greater portion of its afternoon and early
evening time to the entertainment of the “kids.”
Station WDGY used its precious commercial hour
from 7 to 8 RM. for broadcasting the band con-
certs and community sings which had been can-

celed in the Minneapolis parks. These concerts
were held in the ballroom of the N icollet Hotel

450 FROM A VISITOR, FRANK BUT FRIENDLY

and were the result of the joint c00peration of the
Minneapolis Park Board, the Minneapolis Musi-
cians Association, the hotel management, the radio
station, and the irrepressible George Grim, who
served as Master of Ceremonies.

It was, indeed, heartwarming to note the breadth
of c00peration which was accorded by every or—
ganization both public and private in the effort to
provide some measure of fun for boys and girls in
the midst of a summer playground season and in
the face of the tragic circumstances of the polio

epidemic—Alice Diets.

 

 

From a Visitor, Frank
Bu’r Friendly

MAN 0F LONG EXPERIENCE in work with youth

has recently been studying youth movements
in the United States. In his own country he has
been working with clubs which serve both sexes,
age 14-20, with membership open to Catholic
youth as well as Protestant. The centers are open
every night, including Sundays, and the program
includes gymnasium work, dramatics, activities in
game rooms, crafts. At 9:30 each evening both
boys and girls come together in the canteen for
informal visiting. The clubs close at 10:15. New
members are nominated by two members in good
standing, who are responsible for the conduct of
the new members for the first month. The mem-
bers are expected to go to some religious service
weekly. "

This leader felt that in America the programs
were too much of one pattern; that many of the
agencies were large and impersonal; that certain
of the agencies have no souls. He was-also fearful
of the complicated machinery which is developing
and wondered how we were going to keep atten—
tion and service focused on individuals: '

He said, “For the most part, in talking with
many professional peOple in the U. S. I have not
understood what they were talking about. My
whole vocabulary has changed. Many of the words
used by workers are not at all common. It does
not seem to me that the professional terminology

which I have experienced is conducive to good
service.” ‘

He was also troubled about the extravagant
record systems. He considered it very important
to know boys and girls personally.

It is helpful sometimes to have the friendly view
of one who comes from away and who is willing,
after an extensive visit, to share his thinking with

us in'a frank, kindly way.

"We Deck Up Our Houses'I

(Continued from page 427)

barium chloride green
strontium chloride red
copper chloride “blue
potassium nitrate purple
sodium nitrate yellow

copper nitrate blue

\
Safety note: Be sure the fireplace has a good
draft and don’t inhale the smoke.

On page 440 of this issue of RECREATION -you
will lind a list of Christmas articles that have been
published in past years. Some of these carry other
suggestions for Christmas crafts. You might want

'to check your own files or your library’s and add

some of these ideas to those described in these
pages.

The Challenge to Recreation

( C onitinued from page 415)

veloping American principles through recreation.
Appropriations for this work were then cut off by
Congress because the program was considered to
be “pampering the people.” Since there was no
support for an American program, there was actu-
ally an intensification of the Japanese type of ac—
tivities and the necessary frame of mind to go with
them; The young Americans, the Nesei, had no
money to deve10p their interests in” the U. S., and
were forced to attend the drama, sumo, judo, and
the like which were carried on by the contributions
of the Issei and which were culturally pro-Japa—
nese.

Contrast this unappreciative eValuation of the
recreation possibilities with the “Kraft durch
F reude” (Strength through Joy) movement in
Nazi Germany. There, recreation became a tool to
deve10p Nazi ideology. It used all the techniques
and activities — sports, athletics, games, socials,
clubs, trips, excursions, picnics, with a definite aim
of deve10ping loyalty under a system of “leaders.”
These Germans enjoyed Nazism. Their recreation
was paid for out of party funds and was a sugar
coating for the content of Nazi philosophy. It was
fun to be “led” around having a good time. Recrea-
tion was the “joyous wedge” which pried open the
young peoples’ and the workers’ minds to Nazism.

RECREATION

RECREATION GUIDANCE I 451

Should recreation do less for democracy? We
think it is the best system of government for the
world. Should recreation lose its opportunity?
Should we not actively consider and promote demo-
cratic living? Will we accept the challenge?

A Program

A dynamic program with a basic democratic
philosophy demands:

Participation in planning and thinking by as
many peOple as possible. This means less mana-
gerial efficiency and more ability to work with
people.

Understanding the general lethargy of the aver-
age person, his fear of expressing himself, and
making both participation and self-expression
joyous.

Appreciation for the fact that this participation
in thinking and planning results in some delay and
perhaps exasperation, but'it is also the fundamen—
tal basis of democracy. It is the method which is
important.

The leaders’ positions are not to tell peOple what
to do, as in Nazi Strength through Joy, but to
guide pe0ple away from mistakes. Lack of plan-
ning is one of these mistakes.

Leadership of this kind goes from the very t0p
to the smallest unit. Executives usually have an
understanding of it but statistics, administrative
procedure, business efficiency often enshroud their
ability to make it work. It ought to get through
to every worker with top executive support. If we
recognize the important position we have in direct-
ing the future of the world, we will have found the
challenge to recreation.

French journalist, M. Louis Martin-Chaufiier
writes: “What is civilization but the proper use of
.leisure ?” (Time Magazine, July 8, 1946.)

Recreation Guidance

(Continued from page 414)
the use of defense mechanisms or other unsound
procedures.

The development of appreciations. This includes
appreciations of music, art, the drama, journalism,
literature, athletics. Long ago Herbart suggested
that education should result in interests. Recrea-
tion guidance should help young people to find for
themselves, large, rich interests which will be a joy
to them throughout life.

NOVEMBER 1946

 

“A Winning Team Needs
a Good Mat"

In highly competitive sports. the team with the
best equipment stands the best chance of winning.
Specify NATIONAL Gym Mats for there's no finer
mat made. A full 2” of platen-processed genuine
animal hair-felt is hand tufted between tough,
durable 24 oz. canvas duck. Strong walls that
won't break down, double-stitched and riveted
handles that wear like iron. Wisconsin's famous
boxing coach Johnny Walsh says, "I can honestly
recommend National Boxing Mats."

  
  
  
   
     
 

NATIONAL SPORTS

EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette Street
Fond du Lac. Wis.

Send for this Free Booklet m

. . .of helpful "Pointers" on
boxing in your school.

 

 

The development of knowledge. One of the by-
products of recreation is the amount of knowledge
which is gained by individuals through their pur-
suit of hobbies and recreation interests of vari-
ous sorts. Indeed many people have, through
their recreation, become experts in various fields
of knowledge. They were led on to this by a keen
enthusiasm which gave them great fulfillment for

their personality needs.

Guidance Not Dictation

Any form of guidance implies two things: the
presence of a guide who is able to give help, and

freedom of choice on the part of the guided. It is
of the essence of recreation that compulsion lS

absent. Recreation guidance, therefore, must pro-
vide the facilities and the stimulation which will
enable boys and girls and men and women to dis-
cover for themselves outlets of expression which

happen to be channels appropriate to their abilities
and which will give to them great satisfactions 1n
achievement, recognition, self-esteem and inde-

pendence.

452 TIGERTOWN JAMBOREE

Tigertown Jamboree
( C ominued from page 432)

All the booths housed accuracy games. Throwing
a football through a hole, knocking wooden milk
bottles from 55—gallon oil drums with baseballs,
tossing handballs through embroidery h00ps,
throwing darts at balloons, shooting wooden sticks
at cigarettes and chewing gum, and tossing hoops
over prizes were all part of the money raising con-
tests. Equipment from the playground was used.
A golf driving net was erected and supervised by
a local golfer with teen-agers to assist. Clock golf
with young and old trying to make a hole in one
was another center of interest. Archery was popu-
lar and safe with bales of hay from a local feed

store outlining an area protected on all sides from
stray arrows.

“The world famous Swami” (a member of the
local Volunteer Fire Department), dressed in regal

attire arrived on both evenings in a police car, 'with '

sirens to announce his appearance. He told for-
tunes in a tent borrowed from the Girl Scouts.

A “jail” was set up on a bandstand and teen—
age “policemen” were deputized by the chief of
.police for the two evenings. They “arrested” girls
for all kinds of ridiculous “offenses” and took them
to jail to remain until “bailed out” and “married”
by the “justice of the peace.” The boys helped out
and married their favorites, and the girl with the
most rings at the end of the evening was awarded
a Teddy Bear doll for being the most popular lady.

The refreshment booth was also handled by a
group of teen-agers. In addition to food made by
the girls and their mothers, ice cream, hot dogs
and “cokes” were sold at the stand.

Dancing to teen—age Barrett’s Band in an area
roped off by Police Chief Chester B. Campbell and
his men was very popular. Dancers of all ages
were waltzing and jitterbugging from the first
dance at 7 P. M. until midnight. The jitterbug
contest with teen-agers dancing away for the lov—
ing cup prize proved a fitting climax to the two
evenings of fun.

Mayor Emerson C. Church drew the winning
tickets for the rafHe of a radio and a pressure
cooker.

In addition to raising over $700 for their build—
ing fund and providing entertainment for over
4,000 people in two evenings, the teen-agers of
Tenafiy proved that they can carry responsibility
by showing what an excellent job they can do if
only they are given the opportunity.

Planning Christmas Parties
(Continued from page 424)
Christmas legend from across the seas that makes
all aware that Christmas is everywhere, in every
land.*

With such a beginning, with the guest of honor
in your heart, there is only one way your Christ—
mas party can end—with the singing of a few more
carols and a happy “Merry Christmas! I’ve had a
wonderful time.”

 

*See page 456 for a review of a new collection of such stories.

The Navy's Peacei'ime Plans for

for Recreafion
(Continued from page 430)

will not be available in peacetime. Greater restric-
tions on expenditures have been imposed on com— ‘
manding officers to prevent some of the common
abuses which occurred during the war.

It was very gratifying to the writer to see the
number of commanding ofiicers in the Navy, who
when faced with the loss of their recreation or
physical fitness officers through demobilization,
would call or send a dispatch to the Navy Depart-
ment requesting an immediate replacement or per-
mission to. hold the incumbent until a suitable
relief could be located.

As long as the Navy continues to select men like
Capt. R. E. Wilson to direct its Welfare program
its men will never want for a well-balanced and
diversified program of recreation, physical fitness
and education. Capt. Wilson has an excellent con-
cept of these programs as demonstrated by his fine
speech before the Recreation Congress this year.

Recreafion for Older People in
Rural Communities
( C ontinuea from page 418)
with this “Ring—around-a-Rosy” group she gives
the Book Wagon news and takes orders for the

books to be distributed to those who are too infirm
to come for them.

State Grange and Old Age Assistance

The State Grange Lecturer suggests that a sur-
vey be made of our elderly people and then work
be done with those who haven’t been able to dis—
cover themselves. In this way, they may be able
to find interest in some happy and helpful hobby,
instead of letting them believe that they are just
sitting around waiting for their “Master’s call.”

RECREATION

l
!.
l
!
l

l

 

HOME AGAIN AND TOGETHER

Of the older pe0p1e who are able to come to the
Grange and are active, many participate in square
dancing and games. Some who come to Grange
but cannot participate in active physical recreation
prepare the. write-ups of the Grange meetings for
the daily or weekly newspaper, write letters to the
shut—ins or hospital patients, prepare scrapbooks
for children’s and veterans’ hospitals, cut out clip-
pings of interest for the Lecturer or do some re-
search work or look up references on a particular
subject. The Lecturer relies on this group.

Many aged, indigent persons who are recipients
of public assistance and who are past the age of
productive employment, have nothing for the
future. Too often for these needy old men and
women there are no adequate opportunities for
satisfying recreation and their lives are lonely and
empty. The Old Age Assistance Department tells
us of the,need for recreation for those who are
dependent. While the average age of Vermonters
receiving aid is 76, many are employed in the State
between the ages of 80 and 86.

Statistics aren’t necessary to prove that there is
need for more recreation and the fuller life in rural
areas for our elderly. .Our number of admissions
to the mental hospitals among the old age group
is far too high and while there are other factors,
I believe the remark of one old man about his
wife when she was committed is self-explanatory,
“She ain’t been out of the house for 40 years. She
ain’t been to the city to get unsettled. I can’t
understand. it.”

The contribution which the Extension Service
through its Farm Bureau and Home Demonstra-
tion clubs, the Grange, the State Library Exten-
sion Service through its Book Wagons, the Arts
and Crafts Service is of inestimable value to the
leisure time life of elderly people. The State Com-
munity Recreation Advisory Service tries to help
communities appreciate their responsibilities. The
Vermont Federation of W omen’s Clubs will finance
two Rural Recreation Leadership training courses
each of a week’s duration organized by the Di-
rector of Recreation. Programs for older people
will be included in the course.

Someone said, “People do not stop playing be-
cause they grow old. They grow old because they
stop playing.” Webster defines recreation “to
revive, to refresh, to create anew.”

We are challenged perhaps as never before to
develop a more sympathetic, intelligent and keener
understanding of the needs of our older citizens.

NOVEMBER 1946

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
     

    

First Choice

for

Every Sport!

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors



‘1

 "1}:
' 1'.  O l 0
mg, 
 nit FINISY n; in! (111.0 
w MANU'ICIUIING COH'ANY - $1. LOUIS ) MO.

 

 

If we can revive, refresh or create anew we will
give them a new zest for their pursuit of happiness

and the abundant life.

—Adapted from an address delivered at the National
Conference of Social Work, May 1946.

Home Again and Together

( Continued from page 431)
cate a piece on the juke box and to watch the cele-
brator make a wish, blow out the candles and then
cut the cake for all. The celebrator is sent into
another part of the building on a faked errand
while the cake is being made ready.

Strangers to Friends

These Tuesday and Thursday gatherings also
serve as a clearing house for those who like to play
golf and tennis or ride horseback. Those who like
sports have had an opportunity to 5nd partners
and teams'and to make dates for playing. Thus
those who liked to do things and were strangers in
the community have been happily able to find a

kindred soul.
Since the first night the group has grown and

maintained its friendly, enthusiastic atmosphere.

454 THE RECREATION MOVEMENT IN AMERICA

Each night the newcomers are asked to register
and their number has ranged from six to 30 on

the many nights since April 2. Many young people
from the surrounding communities have been com—

ing, for Birmingham was once their home and they
like being with their old friends and having a place
to go to be with them. As one young man stated,
“No boy need ever be ashamed to bring his date
to this place. I think it is just what the doctor
ordered.” This is true, for the atmosphere is as
near perfect as it can be. The deep blue of the
walls and ceiling, the recessed lighting, the attrac-
tive life-like murals on Western themes, the heavy
pine furniture and the Complete snack bar built as
a Ranch House, give a very relaxing atmosphere.
The separate game rooms are well supplied with
billiard tables, ping-pong tables and every type of
quiet table games and cards. The asphalt, tile floor
is kept highly polished and is very satisfactory for
dancing.

The combination of a night club atmosphere in
the Ranch Room, plus the recreation facilities in
the game rooms, plus the enthusiasm of all con—
cerned with the group have added together to
create a highly successful venture in answer to the
great needs for recreation of this age group of
19 to 30.

The Recreation Movement in America
(Continued from page 431)

XIV. The recreation service of the National
Recreation Association functions as a cen-
tral national agency for the accumulation of
knowledge through:

Field workers personally studying and
reporting on developments in hundreds of
communities each year.

The Correspondence Bureau which re-
ceives all facts coming to the Association
through field and staff workers of the or-
ganizations, correspondence, books, pam-
phlets, periodicals and other mediums of
expression.

The Year Book which collects and re-
cords in detail the important facts regard-
ing the major developments in the recrea-
tion field.

The Recreation Congress at which rec-
reation workers from the entire country
personally report experiments, deve10p-
ments and results secured in their commu-
nities.

Special studies of important recreation
problems.

XV. The recreation service of the National Rec—
reation Association functions as a central
national force for the dissemination of
knowledge through: _

Field workers who personally carry and
interpret to hundreds of cities each year the
new facts and developments in other com-
munities throughout the country.

The Correspondence and Consultation
Bureau which, through correspondence and
consultation, answers thousands of requests
a year for information on all phases of the
recreation problem.

The Year Book which in printed form
makes available to the entire country the
results of a comprehensive annual survey
of the movement.

RECREATION MAGAZINE which is the only
periodical devoted exclusively to reporting
facts and developments in the community I
recreation field as a whole. 

The Recreation Congress which brings I
together workers from the entire country
for the purpose of learning about the move-
ment through personal exchange of facts.

The Bureau of Special Publications which
gathers, sorts, digests and prints the vast'
amount of material which the Association
is constantly receiving.

The services on Education of Local Com-
munities which gathers material and ideas
used successfully in different communities
to interpret the movement locally, and which
makes the material gathered available for
national and local use.

The Physical Efliciency Tests for Boys
and Girls which are‘ brought to the atten-
tion of the communities throughout the
country so that they will have well-founded 1
standards for judging and promoting the
physical life of their youth.

The finding and training of recreation
workers which is a service of finding work- ,
ers, interpreting the movement to them,‘t§,
training them to carry it forward effectively ii
and bringing them in touch with worth-
while opportunities for service; and for
bringing to bear on recreation problems the
special training and knowledge which'they
have acquired. Q

RECREATION I

Books Received

    

ARTS AND CRAFTS

.Everybody’s Handicraft Handbook. Progress Press,
Washington, D. C. $2.00.

CHILDREN

:ABC, by Charlotte Steiner. Franklin Watts, Inc., New
' York. $1.00.

AniigalsgBC, The. U. S. Camera Publishers, New York.

1. . ;

Animal Families, by Ann Weil. Greenberg: Publisher,
New York. $1.50. '

Animals of Friendly Farm, The, by Marjorie Hartwell.
' Franklin Watts, Inc., New York. $1.00.

Batter Up. by Jackson Seholz. William Morrow and
Company, New York. $2.00.

Big Fire, The. by Elizabeth Olds. Houghton Mifilin Com-
pany, Boston, Massachusetts. 

Come, Jack! by Robert W. McCulloch. Houghton Mif—
‘ Hin Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $2.50.

Farm Stories, by K. and B. Jackson. Simon and Schuster,
New York. $1.50.

Home-Builders, The, by Warren Hastings Miller. The
John C. Winston Company, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. $2.00.

Key of the Chest, The, by Neil H. Gunn. George W.
Stewart, Publishers, Inc., New York. $2.75.

Kid Comes Bach, The, by John R. Tunis. William Mor-
row and Company, New York. $2.00.

Leaky Whale, The, by Laura 'and Jack Johnson. Houghton
Miinn Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $2.00.
Lightning on Ice, by Philip Harkins. William Morrow

and Company, New York. $2.00.
Make Way for a Sailor! by Nora Benjamin Kubie. Reynal
and Hitchcock, Inc., New York. $2.00.

Red Mittens, by Laura Bannon. Houghton Miinn Com-

pany, Boston, Massachusetts. $1.50.
Scrapper, The, by Leland Silliman. The John C. Winston

Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.00.
Shy Little Kitten, The, by Cathleen Scb‘urr. Simon and

Schuster, New York. $.25.
Taxi That Hurried, The, by Lucy Sprague Mitchell, Irma
Simonton Black and Jessie Stanton. Simon and

Schuster, New York. $.25.

They Came From Scotland, by Clara Ingram Judson.

-‘ Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, Massachusetts.
$2.00.

Tiger and the Rabbit and other Tales, The, by Pura
Belpré. Houghton Mifllin Company, Boston, Massa-

chusetts. $1.75.

CHILD SUPERVISION

Social Correctives for Delinquency. National Probation
Association, New York. $1.25; Clothbound $1.75.
DIRECTORIES -
Public Welfare Directory, 1946. American Public _VVe1-
fare Association, Chicago, Illinois.
HOBBIES

Small Boats for Small Budgets, by Jerrold Oakley. Cor-
nell Maritime Press, New York. $2.50.

Start ’em Sailing, by Gordon‘C. Aymar. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $2.00.

HOME PLAY
Jumbo Entertainer, edited by Harold Hart. Hart Pub-

BOOKS RECEIVED

 

AN IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT!

Assure the Success of Your
Christmas Party!

Christmas Tales for Reading Aloud

. Compiled and adapted by
ROBERT LOHAN

Stories and poems from all .over 'the world,
condensed‘in the authors’ own words. Average
reading time 15 minutes. Adventure and
romance, sentiment and fun, fantasy and real-
ism. Something for every age, something for

every mood.
$3.75

Descriptive folder with reproduction full-color

jacket (Christmas landscape)
sent upon request.

STEPHEN DAYE PRESS

105 East 24th Street
New York 10, N. Y.

 

renowned bow and arrow
authority has written a “key
to archery success” for

everyone who wishes to

excel] in

 
   

THE BOW

Here’s the book you need to achieve the knack of good
shooting in the shortest time possible. Larry Whitlen

has coached many of America’s greatest archers .and
oiIers a personal lesson. In words and illustrations

he presents all the basic techniques of shooting the
bow, purchase and care of equipment, scoring, and a

glossary of archery terms. The outgrowth of years of
experience and study of champions methods, it will

make an expert of you, too! $300
At your bookstore

455

LARRY C. WHIFFEN

THE BRUCE PULISHING COMPANY
4411 Montgomery Building Milwaukee 1, Wis.

/

lishing Company, New York. $2.50.

Jumbo Fun Book, The. by Caroline Horowitz and Harold
Hart. Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.50.

- NOVEMBER 1946

 

   

Christmas Tales for Reading Aloud

Edited by Robert Lohan. Stephen Daye Press, New
York. $3.75. -

HIS COLLECTION of Christmas stories that includes not

only many of the classic favorites but also material
little known in this country is primarily designed for
reading aloud. The editor, thinking of Christmas stories
as a necessity for any Christmas party has, where
necesssary, condensed some of the longer stories so that
they can be used for this purpose. The collection is
indexed under seven classifications—5The Nativity,
Legends, Santa Claus, Sentiment, Adventure, Humor,
Twelve Great Poems. The stories are varied enough to
appeal to many different tastes and many different ages.

The Golden Encyclopedia

By Dorothy A. Bennett. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $2.50.

THE LATEST Of the Giant Golden Books provides

answers to 1,500 of the questions likely to be asked
by growing-uppers. The author was formerly Assistant
Curator .at the Museum of Natural History and speaks
with an authority understandable to developing minds
about such varied and fascinating matters as babies
(fish, flesh and fowl), theaters, the universe. 'The text
is illustrated and reinforced by many pictures in black
and white and in full color.

My One Contribution to Chess

By F. V. Morley. George W. Stewart, Publisher, Inc.,
New York. $2.00.

HOSE PEOPLE whom the author of this book designates

as “the gallant amateurs.” of chess will be interested
in his “one contribu-tion”‘to the game. But the book’s
appeal will not end with chess players for it is 113 pages
Of discursive charm, of anecdote and recollection cen-
tering about the Morley family in England and in this
country and about the group of distinguished and inter-
esting people who are their friends.

Windows Open to'the World

By Dorothy Gladys Spicer. The Womans Press, New
York. $2.50. -

THE DESCRIPTIONS Of parties, festivals, dramatized folk
materials, handicraft and other activities in this book
are based upon the author’s belief in the need of world
fellowship through understanding people of other na-
tionalities, races and creeds. For the furtherance Of that

belief she has .brought together suggestions for doing

things according to the customs of others. The chapter
headings of the book give an idea of its scope. They are:
Parties Are Fim! How to Create a Festival, Why Not
a Living Exhibit? Worship Hours, Friendship Hours,
Other Adventures in World Fellowship. ‘

456

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

Shooting the Bow ‘

By Larry C. Whiffen. Bruce Publishing Company. Mil-
waukee. $2.00.

WHETHER YOU WANT only to bend a‘bO-w with grace

and skill or whether you hope to become so ac-
complished that you’ll “hit the bull’s eye every time for a
perfect tournament score, this book will be valuable. It
will give you fundamental information—about shooting
with bow and arrows in seven lessons.

How to Sail a Boat

By Joseph Lee. Waverly House, Boston. $1.00.
RECREATION LEADERS who like to go to sea in sailing

boats will rejoice that Joseph Lee, of Boston, has
prepared a revised edition Of his 'book, How to Sail a
Boat. He writes out of a long experience and fullness Of
knowledge, and writes so clearly and simply that his
book has very special value for all who are working to
encourage the making and sailing Of boats in the recrea-
tion systems of our country.

Simplified Sketching

By Charles X. Carlson. Melior Books, New York. $1.00.
HARLES CARLSON uses pictures and text to suggest a
tour of the Caribbean with pencil and brush. The

text is given in both English and Spanish. The most

satisfactory art media to use in the countries visited are
indicated together with suggestions for color and type Of
paper and the techniques to be used for certain effects.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT,- Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President ‘

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, re.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRs. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. VVINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOUDWARD, Washington, D. C.

