i- c

I. XLIl No. 6
'ce 35 Cen+s

 

EATI

 

 

September 1947

 

 

RECREATION

.I"

n
I“

‘.r " .9
J u
n (3!»

Q.-

.u

“in epfeméer   i

an

 

It"), .

0n Planning Together (editorial)
by Howard Braucher . . . . . .I . . . . . . . a . . . 265

. .
h-"K'

 Children Take the Trails,-
by C. Hensley Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Let Them Learn with Their Hands,
by O. K. Armstrong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Halloween Shenanigans
Rewards in Kind, by Joe T. Leszcynski 273

The Mayor Takes a Hand,
by R. B. McClintock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274-

Passaic Takes the “Mischief” Out of
“Mischief Night,”

by Beatrice Klughaupt . . . . . . . . . . . . 276

Sports Not Spooks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . 277

Mardi Gras, by John Alexander . . . . . . 278

Recreation Can Help .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 281

29th National Recreation Congress . . . . . . 282

Festival of American. Song, by Alan
Jenkins and William H. Jackson . . . . . .- 283

CW'

on.

Safety Tips for Huntsmen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286

f  Recreation Service of State Agencies to

communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .287 .

Recreation Flying Center,
by L. E. H. Petersen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 292

Harvest Festival. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 293

Stateside Recreation Atmosphere for
Occupation Forces, by Arthur Mayer. . 300

George E. Dickie . . . . . .  . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . 302

World at Play, . . . . . . . . .  .... .. 304

Books Received . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 308

California Recreation Commission . . . . . . 308

Nathan D. Bill Dies . .  . . . . . . . . .  . 309
Magazines and Pamphlets ..' .......... .. 311

New Publications in the Leisure
Time Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 312

Cover print by Gedge Harmon

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America. a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York
10. N. Y.: is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-

class matter JUne 12, 1929, at the Post Oliice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1947, by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.

VOLUME FORTY-ONE, NUMBER SIX

«.1-

On Planning Together

PART OF RECREATION itself is the working out of one’s own activities. Planning

A the picnic is just as important as the picnic. Planning the football strategy is a

tremendously vital part of the game itself and cannot be turned over to others
without a loss of much of the fun.

The passing out of a recreation center building, a recreation system, to the
people without their having any other part than acceptance is a great mistake even
though it be from the best motives.

Wise neighborhood leaders, if they wish to donate a playground, a park, a
swimming pool, make sure that the gift will be acceptable, that the people very much
want what is to be donated, that the people are ready to bear the operating expenses

if they are called upon to do so. People do not like to have a white elephant passed
over to them.

Once a U. S. Senator complained to William Kent, “I gave a recreation center
building to my home county, and the people never appreciated it—never really kept it
up.” Said William Kent, “Did you ask the people whether they wanted it? Did you
,tell them anything about it before you gave it to them?” “No,” said the Senator, “I
wanted the gift to bera complete surprise." “Bill, you are a fool,” said William Kent.
I”What could you expect? How would you have felt if someone had passed a gift like
that over to you and asked you to keep it up?"

ll And so it is—the child, the youth, the grown man enjoys more what he has had
a part in, what he has helped in some way to create. A palace passed out is not so sat-
lsfactory a neighborhood center as a remodelled old barn with the horse stalls fixed
over, if the people did the remodelling and made the various decisions.

', Education for children is compulsory. School buildings and facilities are a must.
Recreation is different. We are not compelled to have recreation. We want a part in
planning it and arranging it. If the city government, the county government, the
state government, the federal government, or a wealthy philanthropist or a group of
Icuch men just pass it out before there is any desire, the result is not so good.

The first step in a rural commun1ty or a city neighborhood is by interpreta—
tion, or demonstration, to help people to see how essential a part of daily living rec-

eation, leisure activities are in making a world that is worth continuing.
l

HOWARD BRAUCI—IER

265

. a
4

© by Patterson Courtesy S ave-the-Redwood: League

 

Children Take the Trails

ll 00K, DAD, it says here ‘On trail trips before
July I wear footgear suitable for crossing
snow banks.’ Do you think we will really

get into some snow?”

My eager nine-year—old, fresh from warm,
green, flowering Virginia, danced with excitement
at the mere thought of snowballing in the Rocky
Mountain National Park in June.

“Could be,” I agreed. “Anyway, let’s wear boots
and sweaters.” ‘

Thus clad, we got into our car and drove up the
winding mountain highway to the meeting place
for this free hike for children conducted by a
ranger-naturalist.

We joined the noisy, laughing group around the
tall man in forest green, gave him our names and
home state. Then, with 22 other children and a

-- scattering of parents from 14 different states, we
k'dropped in behind the guide as he headed off into
-tthe forest of yellow pine. -

1 Before a huge tree‘ towering well above its neigh—
ibors, he called our first halt. Attentively the chil-
ren listened as the ranger pointed to the evidences
f the struggle for existence put up by this gallant
1d tree. A deep fireburn between two huge roots,
ranches torn from the side of the tree indicating
hat another tree had crashed into it\ and almost
estroyed it in its youth, twisted branches bearing
' fitness to battering by strong winds, borings of
'1sects . . . all these things had left their scars on
e old pine. The ranger told the children of the
ow growth of this tree, probably not more than
ne inch in diameter in ten years.

 
   
   
  
    
    
  
     
  
   

As he talked, youngsters felt the rough bark,
ok deep breaths of its piney fragrance, noted the
ellow color of the wood showing through the
rk and gazed respectfully at its great height.

“Could Indians have built the fire that scarred
.” asked a thoughtful little girl.

“Quite possibly,” answered the guide. “We
now this tree is older than civilization in this part
f the country. It was here long before the white

an. Here, let’s take a look at the age of one of
s former neighbors”

L—J
(D
U}
(D
""l
O
O
H.
U)
"U

Stooping, the ranger brushed aside vines from
n old stump. Showing the children the rings in
1e wood, he told them how to count the age of the
ee that had broken off . . . one ring for each year.

EPTEMBEB 194.”

By C. HENSLEY JACKSON
Estes Park. Colorado

Wide rings, he explained, represented lush, wet
years; narrow ones drought or overcrowding.

A bird circled overhead, its yellow—marked wings
and black-striped body clearly observed by keen
young eyes.

“A pine siskin,” explained the ranger, “looking
over this old tree for housekeeping possibilities, no
doubt”

We moved on, followng a narrow trail up and
up. A lad from Texas laughed as he pointed to an
oddly balanced group of boulders at the trail side,

rt “Looks like a huge snow man. What could have
piled those rocks up like that?”

“Old man erosion did that,” smiled the guide.
“He is a mad sculptor you k'now—uses water,
frost, ice and snow for his working tools and takes
centuries to carve out his effects. Probably that
balanced group was part of one large rock hun-
dreds of years ago. Rain, ice and snow wear away
the softer parts, leaving what we see here.”

Our trail broke suddenly into a small bright
meadow. Through it ran a clear, swift brook.
Flowers blossomed everywhere—their golden, pink,
blue, scarlet, purple and white heads nodding to us
in all directions. The children exclaimed in delight.

Warning theichildren that nothing growing in
the park could be picked, the ranger moved about
identifying Golden Banner, Blue Bells, Miner’s
Candle, Little Red Elephant, Pearly Everlasting
and Loco Weed. Boys and girls vied with each
other to find a "new variety, to jump the clear
brook or to locate the smoothest pebble.

Another stiff climb brought us to the edge of a
tiny mountain lake, jewel-like in its quiet clear—
ness. Lilies spread green leaves on its glassy sur-
face. A small bird skimmed swiftly along, level
with the water.

Quietly we watched the bird, a water ouzel. The
ranger explained that this bird really preferred
swift brooks, loved to fly through the silver spray
as the water dashed against a rock and built its
nest just as close to the water as possible.

Suddenly a boy’s high voice broke our stillness
with a cry of “Snakes! Snakes l”

267

 

|.
Na '. ,-u-'..v-.n.'-p¢' Jéigg " 1,)

Courtesy National Park Service

A scamper began. The ranger laughed, stooped
down and picked up one of the silvery, crawling
creatures in his hands. “Just a harmless little garter
snake. He won’t hurt you at all,” he said. In a
moment four other snakes were caught, my own
formerly snake-shy child coming up with one of
them wound around her arm.

“Careful, now. Our park protects these little
fellows just as much as any other living thing,”
warned the guide. “But if you promise not to harm
them, we will take them along. There is another
lake just ahead; we will transplant them.”

The four youngsters carrying the snakes became
very popular as we hiked ahead. Saucy chipmunks
chattering at us from the rocks could not compete
with the thrill of carrying a snake. At well-named
Dream Lake, the snakes were regretfully released
Herewe left the marked trail to clamber over
rugged terrain for a shortcut back to our starting
pomt.

Aftermath -

At the end of the hike, some of us Dads cor—
nered the ranger.. We thanked him for an inter-
esting, eye—opening excursion and said we wished
every youngster in the United States might have
the opportunity to go along. We were encouraged
when our guide told us that more than 1,809 of
Uncle Sam’s boys and girls do take these hikes in
the Rocky Mountain National Park every season,
and do observe life along streams, see glaciers,
study nature’s methods of camouflage or examine
museum specimens of hoofs, claws and horns.

“While we have an ideal environment here,”
said the ranger, “we have no monopoly on nature’s

268

t

  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  

I wonders. This sort of project

i could be carried on anywhere.
'i Anyone can start _a trail school a
home. N ature’s storybook is every
where and always open.

“Children need a leader fo
these trips, of course, but th
leader need not be an expert.
What these youngsters want t
find out is why a living thing i
Where it is and what it is, how i
finds its way around its home ter
ritory, how it makes its living
what its friends and what its ene
mies are and how it fits into th
general scheme of things. First
hand observations are worth
hundred lectures. Any adult! with
a heart big enough to love both
children and all outdoors, and
possessing a keen, interested pair of eyes has the
top qualifications for a nature group leader.

“It is our constant hope that some of you parents
who go along on these hikes and see how informal
they are and how these youngsters. from all parts
of the country, with such different backgrounds,
meet as equals with a great common interest in
nature, will go home and start hiking trails near
at hand." .

Three of us Dads had become pretty well ac—
quainted on that three—hour hike. We decided to
try such an experiment with our own youngsters
and their home “gangs.” We promised to contact
each other by letters sharing our experiences,
good or bad.

Letters from the other two Dads reached my
desk about the same time.

Jim and son, from Missouri, went exploring
along the river bottom land a few miles from their
small city. They found a wild looking swamp, got
permission to go into it and collected the son’s
Scout Patrol members for companions. They set
out to make a census of the wild life on the part
of this swamparea dry enough to walk around in.
So far the boys had seen rabbits, squirrels, frogs,
watersnakes, an oppossum, a skunk and a fox.
They built a tree house, and, from its high vantage
point, spent a night listening to the night calls of
the birds and small animals. Two young camera
enthusiasts in the patrol got_ some excellent shots
of duck landings and take-offs, good enough to win
a prize in a local contest. One lad had begun a
collection of the swamp’s butterflies and moths.
Dubbing themselves “The Swamp-Men,” this patrol
was now the envy pf the tr00p.

RECREATION

“I feel as if I had a lion by the tail,” wrote Jim.
“These boys find something new that they want to
know more about every time we go into our swamp
area. We have barely scratched the surface of the
life out there. Just to think, last summer none of
these Iz-to-I4-year-old lads thought there was
much in the old home territory to interest a fellow.
Now they think this is the greatest spot on earth.”'

Sam’s letter from Maryland was not quite so
glowing. Young Sammy became ill on their return
and was still convalescing. His letter said in part:

“Remember the ranger said we could start with
anything, even a sweet potato in a bowl of water?
Well, when Sammy just had to have something to
.take his mind off his trouble, we moved his chair
to the backyard. We have one old apple tree out
there.

“I dug out my Army field glasses and young
Sammy gave that old tree a minute going over.
He finally spotted a nest with the mother robin
brooding. You can’t imagine how the Spirits of the
whole family perked up when Sammy got inter-
ested in this robin family.

“He kept a notebook on the bird’s doings, put
down the date when he first saw the baby birds,
made a count of the number of feedings they got
in a half-hour period, even checked to see which
did the most work in feeding the brood, mother or
father robin. He noted the first day the young
'birds turned their heads toward the parent bring-
ing the food, instead of just sticking ,their heads
straight up and opening their bills. (I didn’t know
they did that, did you?) When the young birds
learned to fly, Sammy was as excited as if he were
one of the feathered parents.

“I brought bird books home from the library and
the whole family got interested. Now we four go
‘birding’ in one of the parks near here, or in one
of those wild wooded lots you no doubt remember
popping up in odd places in our sprawling city.
Sammy isn’t well enough yet to have his friends
go along. but we are looking forward to that for
next season.

“Occasionally we do meet another bird lover.
One of these talked to Sammy about bird banding
and we sent for a bulletin he recommended. Now
ve are making one of the traps described in this
bulletin and hope to band our robins to see if they
return next year.

“I can’t tell you how thankful we are that the
ranger alerted us to the nature interests even at
our own city back door.”

SEPTEMBER 1947

My own experiment had everything in its favor
since we three elected to remain up here at the
gateway to the park. We took full advantage of
many of the free hikes from June through August.
Some of these were broadcast so that other chil-
dren in the nation got an idea of what these others
were enoying. I reported to my fellow experiment-
ers only the things my daughter and I had done on
our own, however.

With several of her small friends, we'had a
series of nature treasure hunts. The prize went to
the child having the most interesting wayside speci-
men at the end of our hike, a perfect pine cone,_a
brilliant aspen leaf, 3. description of a glimpse of
some wild creature.

One day I remembered my pocket microscope,
hidden away in a trunk of relics from college days.
Through this, young eyes gazed into the thrilling
beauty of a polished pebble, a green leaf, a flower
petal, a bit of pollen or a drop of water.

Many an evening the gang gathered on our steps
for a game of angels and devils. To play this, we
take names of local points of interest, such as Old
Man Mountain, Eagle Cliff, Nymph Lake, Thomp—
son River, and scramble them like this: Nymph
River, Eagle Lake, and so on. All who stay seated
when wrong combinations are given remain angels,
those who stand become devils. The children get a
great kick out of this game.

Although our projects haven’t been alike in
many ways, we three Dads agree that each has had
a lot of fun and that the projects have been worth
our time and trouble. As for what they have meant
to the children, who is it who has said, “Every boy

.or girl who knows intimately the wild places near

his home or understands the ways of some one
thing in the out-of-doors has advantages no other
knowledge can give him”?

Whoever it .was who uttered those sentiments
must have been a Dad, and in the language of the
children I pilot, “What he said was plenty solid!”

New Publication . . .

HE CENTRAL COUNCIL of Physical Recreation,

which is a “servicing, advisory and stimulat-
ing” body in Great Britain, has recently published
the first issue of the Physical Recreation Bulletin.
This publication will be issued three times a year
and although its first number is devoted mainly to
recreation-physical education happenings in Great
Britain, it will in the future include information
from countries the world over.

269

Let Them Learn With Their Hands

By 0. K. ARMSTRONG

Y WIFE and I were nailing up a wooden box
M for shipment, and our first little boy, three

years old, was dancing about, demanding

that I let him drive some of the nails.
“You watch me and learn how to do it,” I said.
“But Daddy, let me learn with my hands!” the

little fellow begged.
I started another nail and gave him the hammer.

Triumph shone from his eyes as he successfully

pounded that nail home.

The incident led us to add a small hammer, nails
and soft pine strips to his .play equipment. The
din was terrific—-—but the child’s joy in “making
things” was something to behold. Soon I had to
get him a small saw. Then a pencil and square to
mark straight lines. By the time he was six, he had
a collection of toys—birdhouse, doll bed, cart with
wheels, wooden train—-—all made by himself (with
some parental assistance, I admit).

When the second boy, two years younger, joined
his brother in the fun, we simply could not have
hammers, nails, blocks and shavings all over the
house, so we set up a corner of the basement as
the children’s workshop. Little sister and two other
boys came along, and moved into the workshop

as soon as they could crawl.

Not only has our children’s
workshop given our youngsters
“something to do” creatively, but
it has developed manual ability of
great enjoyment to them now and
of real value to them in later life.
It has brought coordination of
eyes and fingers, appreciation of
measurements, knowledge of
tools and materials, all essential
parts of the educational process.
It has taught them to exchange
ideas, to work together and to
share the credit of accomplish-
ment with each other.

And don’t forget this: It’s
brought Mother and Daddy into
the closest and finest companion-
ship with the kids! Any parent

270

becomes a hero to his or her children by joini
in the fun of working with their hands. “Help
make a windmill.” “Come and mark out a pattern
These are pleas you can’t resist.

The essential tools of the children’s worksho
we’ve learned, are these: a hammer (not too b
at first), small and medium nails, small saw a '
square. Soon you’ll add a screwdriver, plier
plane, augurs for boring holes, and a miter—b0
for sawing at angles. Then wrenches to put thing
together with bolts and nuts. Later, shears for sini
ple metal working, glueing equipment, and pain
and brushes for the final glorious coloring. An
don"t overlook the backbone of the shop—a work
bench. It can be an inexpensive table, with leg
sawed off to fit the child. A youngster has grea
difficulty holding boards while sawing them, so .
clamp for the purpose is needed. Have a woode
box for the tools.

Start by showing your boy how to drive nail
without mashing fingers, how to mark boards an
saw them along the line, how to bring the edge

The author shows ’rhem ho

 

RECREATIO

 

The children test their skill

straight. Soon you can draw designs for the fin-
ished product on paper, and let the child do his
own cutting and fitting. There’ll be much trial and
error, but every mistake will teach a lesson and
every good job will bring a proud moment.

We started this workshop during depression
days. Many a pitying glance was cast my way as I
would come.home carrying an empty wooden crate
from the grocery store—presumably for firewood.
One day a sympathetic neighbor told me where I
could buy a load of wood cheap. I told him the
boxes were for our children to work on—anid
would he like to step over and take a look? He did.

“Say! Could I send my boy to learn about this?”
he asked. Jack came and took to the simple tools
eagerly. An evening or so later Jack’s father him—

self carried in a couple of pine boxes. Soon Jack
had his own workshop.

One of our distant relatives, mother of three
sons, complained one day: “My boys are so de-
structive! They drive nails all over the place, and
one of them nearly ruined a chair trying to saw.
I have to hide the tools.”

My wife .and I exchanged knowing looks. “Why
not teach them to use the tools?” we suggested. A
trip to the workshop convinced her. About a year
later she wrote: “Twenty dollars worth of tools,
and twenty millions of happiness for the boys.”

We found that girls get about the same enjoy—
ment from.making and repairing things as boys.
There is this difference: Girls transfer rather

SEPTEMBER 1947

quickly into distaff activities. But
skills developed from use of tools
aid fingers learning to knit and
sew, or for that matter, learning
to play the piano.

Painting has an irresistible
charm for any child, boy or girl.
Its results are immediate, with
every movement of the brush.
Color, too, has it own appeal, and
to make old surfaces new is thrill—
ing. But at first a child’s painting is
messy, unless carefully supervised
We found it helpful to use brushes
not more than two inches wide
and to limit the amount of paint
to about an inch in a wide can.
Demonstrate carefully how to dip
the brush and how to spread the
paint to prevent dripping. _

Countless benefits come to chil:
dren from learning to Work with their hands. One
is orderliness. Insist upon a place for every tool.I
Begin with a simple wooden container for the im-
plements. Add shelves, cabinets and drawers as
the workshop expands. Require that all unusedz
pieces be gathered and stacked in order, and that
all sawdust, shavings and litter be cleaned up at
the end of every day. These lessons alone are
worth many times the investment in the work—
shop. It’s just a step to greater orderliness with
schoolbooks and papers, tidiness in bedrooms and
neatness in clothes closets.

A child soon learns to reSpect the implements
that help him create. He learns how to handle them
properly—not to hammer the screwdriver, not to.
saw through a nail, never to leave a brush to dry
filled with paint. He cleans the tools and puts them
away. He takes to his heart the age—old pride of
the workman in the tools of his craft.

Learning to work with the hands can be a guide
to what a child is best fitted to do in later life. The
parents of friends of ours noticed that one daughter
had unusual talent with the paint brush. Given
some lacquer to do a chair, she made strikingly
artistic decorations. They encouraged this talent,
and the girl went on to art school. Now in her
early twenties, this young woman is a successful
artist on the staff of an advertising agency.

A teacher in a school near our home told.‘ us of
Billy, a boy little interested in his studies. Appeals
to the parents brought no results, as they declared
he simply wanted to “tinker all the time.” We in—
vited Billy to our workshop, and found him to be
a veritable genius with tools and machinery. His

271

father, repairman in a railroad shop, bought him
some tools. Today the boy is taking his veteran’s
training in a technical school, his head filled with
plans to invent bigger and faster machinery.

Some parents express concern about encourag-
ing their boys to work with tools, for fear—as one
mother expressed it—-“they might become me-
chanics.” But the world needs good mechanics,
trained workmen, as never before. Every major
industry is crying for youths who have talent for
skilled manual operations. The pay is big and
chances for promotion unlimited. From such boys
must come the Edisons and Fords of the future.

Value For All

And what about the boy who turns toward the
professions, such as ministry, law, medicine, teach-
ing? The more he learns to work with his hands,
the better he’ll be able to master the problems of
his life’s work. There’s a definite relationship be-
tween the ability to saw a straight line and to judge
moral values, between rules of measurements and
those governing evidence in court, between skill at
blending colors and the perception needed to diag-
nose a disease, between planning a birdhouse and
building a  campaign.

During the high school years of our older boys,
they were swept into the craze for making model
airplanes. They moved to bigger quarters in the
attic, taking with them the habits of neafness and
orderliness learned in the workshop. Whole fleets
of model planes rolled from their painétaking as-
sembly lines.

Like several million other young Americans,
these two boys stepped from high school into the
armed services, one to naval aviation and the other
to the Pacific area. As they moved from grade to
grade, we knew that the values learned in their
home manual training had much to do with it.

Some years ago a “problem boy” in the neigh-
borhood was lured to our workshop by tales of a
. wondrous sled about to be painted. The lad was a
scourge to his teachers, feared and hated by many
boys of his school. He lived in a broken home,
reared by a father who thrashed him unmercifully.
Given friendly treatment in the workshop, he
showed eager interest in making things. '

An understanding Scoutmaster took this tough
lad into his troop and gave him the job of carving
totem poles and plaques. The youth began spend-
ing his spare time in the Scout room in the spon-
soring church’s basement. He dropped his bullying
and belligerency and cooperated with teachers and
playmates. He assembled materials for a “soap-box

272

auto” and won second place in a neighborhoo

  
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  

derby, a respected boy in his own right.

From personal visits to a score of boys’ reform
atory training schools in as many states during m
experience as a state legislator, I found that al
successful methods for reshaping wayward lives,
building proper attitudes, and strengthening char-
acter take into account some form of manual train
ing, both in work and play. Sitting through a lon
session of the juvenile court in Memphis, Tennes
see, ‘I listened to wise, famous Judge Camille Mc
Gee Kelley as she questioned parents and chil-
dren, probing into causes that formed the waves
of delinquency that swept those children into con-
flict with the law. At the close of the court session
she said:

“If parents only realized that children must hav
something constructive, something enjoyable, to do
at home, and with sympathetic minds and hearts
helped the children to do it, my court wouldn’t
have much business!”

There is a practical side to teaching children to
work with their hands. They quickly take up the
tasks of “fixing things” in the home, whether in
city apartment, small town house or farm. From
the way our older boys know how to finish floors,
install fixtures, make gadgets and repair every-
thing from locks to screen doors, we are confident
they will someday make mighty handy husbands.

And all the cost in money, time and effort is
amply repaid if the child learns only this: There
can be no worthwhile accomplishment without
thoughtful planning and hard work!

Recreational Illiterates . . .

ll OR THE MOST PART,” wrote Dr. Eduard C.

Lindeman in The Annals of the American
Academy of Political and Social Science back in
1937, “our educational system makes a sharp dis-
tinction between play and education. . . . Nearly
all subject matter is still taught from the stand—
point of its probable vocational use. Nature study,
for example, is uniformly taught from a scientific
viewpoint, and consequently it loses its importance
for future recreational enjoyment. . . . Students are
taught to read but not to enjoy reading. They are
taught art, but very few are given an opportunity
to produce art. In fact, most of the cultural “sub—
jects are taught as though each student were
prospective professional artist or critic. It is thi
erroneous orientation of education that makes i
possible to state that our youth may complete thei
formal education and still be recreational illiter-
ates.”—Freedom for Fun, Chicago Recreatio
Commission.

RECREATIO

Halloween Shenanigans—

a tale of five cities

ALLOWEEN is in reality a holy evening or hallowed eve as the name implies, but many of the re—
ligious aspects have been lost in history and the merry-making customs which we assdciate with
October 31 have come down to us as remnants of the ancient autumn feast of the Druids. Their asso—
'.ciation of ghosts, hobgoblins, fairies, elves and divinations with the night have survived through the cen—
turies and constitute a greater part of the Halloween celebrations of today. How to combine-these -tra:-
ditional merry-makings and yet avoid over-zealousness which oft-times has resulted in vandalism has
Ibeen a problem in some municipalities for many years. Here’s the manner in which live cities conducted

Halloween festivities for local youngsters and adults last’season.

Rewards in Kind

By JOE T. LESZCYNSKI

Director of Recreation
Marinet’re. Wisconsin

HALLOWEEN is not the day she used to be, old
timers say, and they were never more right—
at least in ‘Marinette if not elsewhere!

The following edi-
torial which was pub-
lished in the Marinctte
E agle-S tar substantiates
that claim:

“The Halloween party
for children that was
sponsored by the city
recreation department
with generous assist-
ance from civic clubs
and merchants was a
marked success and
should be made an an—
nual event. The party
had the effect of greatly
minimizing the ‘trick or
treat’ nuisance which
has bordered on becom-
ing a racket. In some
sections of the city there
was relatively little ac-
tivity of that nature.
Coupled with that was
the report of the police
department that little if
any property damage
came to its attention. It
was a case of giving the

SEPTEMBER 1947

:‘i 5

children wholesome entertainment and the rewards
were in kind.

“Incidentally, some parents, noting the increase

as a nuisance, are discouraging their children from
taking part in any ‘trick or treat’ foray on Hallew-.
een night. The more parents that take a hand along

Fun in Fort Wayne

 

that line, the quicker the ‘trick or treat’pra’ctice
will lose its p0pularity'. Meantime, a bigger-and
better party is in order when the hext

Halloween rolls
around.’_.’ - - 3 .~:--:'
Backgroulidm ‘ '.
Briefly, here’siit‘hfe
story behind the: ,edi-
torial. Marinette. is. _,a
city of approximately
15,000 population..B.e-
cause of the size  the
city, it was decided that
a coinmunity-wide'Bal-
loween celebration
would best meet. ‘the

' need. Due to the limited
; department funds for. the

undertaking it was nec-
essary to ask for assist-
ance. Various service
clubs in tlie city andthre
chamber of commerce
were contacted.
Speeches were made .at
their: luncheon meetings,
stressing the need for a
program on Halloween
night and explaining
briefly the program
planned. Andof course,
the need for funds “was
brought out. i i

‘ ’27s

The program planned sounded so simple that
there were some who doubted that it would accom-
plish its objective, namely: a reduction in property
damage and other Halloween “Hooliganism.” In a
nutshell, the following program was offered to en-
tertain the youth of Marinette on Halloween night.
For boys and girls from the fourth through the
ninth grades in both public and parochial schools
a theater party was planned and for the older teen-
agers, a costume “harvest moon dance” was plan-
ned. It was estimated that approximately I,500
boys and girls would participate in the program.

The largest theater in town was rented for a
period of three hours. The first hour of the pro-

gram was devoted to judging of costumes; this was '

done by audience applause, and such stunts as
dunking for apples, eating pies, rolling peanuts
across the stage and other laugh-provoking acts
were performed. At the end of this time, a two-
hour movie program was shown, consisting of
color cartoons, comedies and a feature-length
western picture.

Upon entering the theater each person was pre-
sented with a “treat,” which consisted of a bag
containing an apple, orange, peanuts, candy and
cookies which was made possible by generous dona-
tions from the various grocery concerns in the city.
A committee of volunteers met the day before the
program to package the items.

The idea behind the program was to keep the
children entertained during the early evening
hours, 6 to 9 o’clock, the time when most pranks
are committed. Most of those attending the theater
party were too tired after the three-hour program
to do anything but go home. (It was noticed that
one mother came for her son and was seen carrying
him out—fast asleep in her arms.)

Admission to the theater party was by special
ticket. These tickets were distributed to all schools
one week prior to the program. In order to get a
ticket, each youngster was required to get written
permission from his parent or guardian to attend
the program. Specially mimeographed slips were
used and the youngsters exchanged the signed per—
mit blanks for admission tickets. A total of 1,250
tickets were issued in spite of the fact that the
theater rented seated only I,OOO. The manager as—
sured us that from his experience at least 20 per-
cent would not pick up tickets. His prediction was
correct—994 attended the party.

It was requested that all attending be attired in
appropriate Halloween costume and more than half
of those present were. in costume. Due to the large
numberof entries the judging of the costumes took
longer than expected with the result that some of

274

the planned stage stunts. had to be cancelled.

. Part two of the community-wide celebration wa
the moving up of the regularly-scheduled Frida
night teen-age dance to Halloween night. A popu
lar out-of-town orchestra was engaged to play to
the program of dancing from 8 :30 to I I :30 P.M.

The regular admission charge of 25 cents pe
person was assessed as usual. Nearly 500 sing]
admissions were sold. No need to say that th
colorful “harvest” decorations and costumes worn
by the dancers fitted in nicely with the Halloween
spirit.

And that is the story behind a quiet Halloween!
night in Marinette. Simple enough—but effective.

Finances

It is only natural that you ask, what the cost of
the entire program was. Here is an itemized state-
ment:

 

 

RECEIPTS l
Kiwanis Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 25.00

Rotary club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00 I

Lions club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00

Chamber of Commerce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25.00

Tavern league . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00 '

Dance receipts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123.00 -

Total receipts... . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . .$248.00
EXPENDITURES
Theater rental, movies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$150.00

Dance orchestra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 150.00

Costume prizes, theater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.75

Costume prizes, dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.00

Tickets to theater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.25

Supervision, dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15.00

Amusement tax, dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.68

Total disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$356.68
The difference of receipts and expenditures was
borne by department funds. The amount could
have been considerably lessened by using a local
orchestra, but it has been the custom to engage

out—of—town orchestras at frequent intervals be-
cause a small profit is made on the dances when a
local orchestra plays. Call it an amusement divi-
dend if you will.

And that is our story. Repeating, “it was a case
of giving the children. wholesome entertainment
and the rewards were in kind.”

The Mayor Takes a Hand
By R. B. MCCLINTOCK l

Recreation Director
Department of Public Parks
Fort Wayne. Indiana

Azour THREE WEEKS prior to Halloween indi-
cations were that we were in for a very bad
Halloween season. It seemed that the youngsters
were determined to “jump the gun” on the “trick

RECREATION

 

Guess again!

or treat” activities and when people were not pre-
pared for their early arrival and could not comply
with their requests some of the older youngsters
would take out their spite on the person’s property.

In former years this pre-season vandalism ran
into several thousand dollars. Then the Mayor lor—
ganized a club which was known as the Mayor
Baal’s Club for boys and girls in Fort Wayne.
Membership cards and a pledge card were issued.
Employees of the City Utilities and Water Works
Department, along with city police, carried these
cards with them and made it their business to con—

tact these groups of youngsters and ask them to
become members of this club. It was a good way
to talk to the youngsters in a constructive manner
and ask their assistance and help in keeping down
the destruction of property.

During this season there were over 1,000 cards
issued. Some of the children took the matter of
this club very seriously and some went so far as
to report to the police incidents they felt were not
in keeping with good citizenship. This club idea
made for good relationships between parents of the
community and the administration because of its
constructive approach to the problem.

The Park Department acted as agent for spon—
soring Halloween parties in five parts of the city.
These parties were put on in the department’s reg—
ular community centers. The children of the com-
munity that are out on Halloween are usually
looking for a rather rough and thrilling time—and

SEPTEMBER 1947

this was our_main objective when
they came to the centers.

We had no one place for dis-
tribution of treats but had many
activities through which they
could earn their treats by making
certain scores in bean bag board,
miniature bowling, washer games,
swing bowling, bouncing ping-
pong balls into a bucket, fish
ponds, bobbing for apples and
any other variations of games that

the particular supervisors could
devise.

The central attraction at all
centers was the room of horrors
which was usually the gymnasium
entirely blacked out so that not
even moonlight could enter. Play—
ground slide beds were brought
in and used to get into the gym-
nasium. At the foot of the slide was an electrically
charged board that helped the individual get up
off the floor. From there he had to walk over an
old bed spring and from that on to a tilting board
where he would meet up with wet mops hung
about face high. A trip over some old car “cushions
led the victim to the next obstacles—a barrel
through which he had to crawl on hands and knees,
then under and over a table on half of an extension
ladder, and through four old tires hanging from
the ceiling. Then another series of bed springs, car
cushions and over and under tables and benches to
another barrelvlat the door—which was electrically
charged. (There were three places in this set-up
where we could fasten batteries to give electrical
shocks. The same youngsters went through this
time after time and they never knew when they
were going to get a charge of electricity.)

All this time adults in the room were Hashing
lights on and off, making it almost impossible for
an individual’s eyes to adjust to the darkness.
Garbage cans were filled with empty tin cans and
these were banged up and down so that it was im-
possible to hear anything. There were papier—maché
skeletons placed in another room with faint blue
lights glowing over them; in one corner a skelton
was sitting on a chair and an attendant in another
corner kept the jaws clinking by remote control.
Every twenty minutes the line was halted and the
paraphernalia reorganized. I

Each center had its own variations of this per—
formance, along with fortune telling booths and the
other activities mentioned previously.

275

,._ This sounds as though it was a horrible experi-
ence, but most all of it was devised by parents in
thg,community who worked with the department
in planning the programs and who greatly enjoyed
helping run the program. Needless to say, by the
time the children were ready to leave, they were
pretty well worn out.

_ The Fraternal Order of Police assisted the City
Park Board by hiring an orchestra for the Jeffer-
son Center from.9 .to -II P.M. for the teen—agers.
Over 400 attended this affair.

The sum total of the program was as follows:
“The cost of these parties exceeded $500.
Over 4,000 children participated.
, A. The Fort Wayne Magician’s Club furnished
 eight magicians to the centers free of charge
for a 20-minute program of magic at the end
0 of the party.
Eighteen groups assisted with donations.
The Lions Club furnished 17 men to assist in

e the leadership.

«trEi’ghty adults (most of them parent members of

I advisory committees) assisted in the program.
I The papers thenext day printed stories that the
losses to the community were the smallest in ten
years and that the evening was very quiet.

_W.e have had offers of help for this program for
next year and we are already looking forward to

a better and bigger thrill program next Halloween.

Passaic Takes the “Mischief”
 Out of “Mischief Night"

 t By BEATRICE KLUGHAUPT
-" v Recreation Department

Passaic. New Jersey

EACH YEAR, when Halloween rolls around, com-
munities the country over prepare for pranks
that“too often result in vandalism and damage.
Based on an old custom, Halloween has really be-
come the eve when the evil spirits “let loose,” as
unfortunately, somewhere in the mainspring of
human actions lies a little quirk that much too
often makes for results we must conclude are not
for the common good. But because the imps are

really youngsters, the boys and girls of your town

and mine, there is nothing to fear but much to
deprecate.

This, we suspect, must have been the reasoning
which went through Commission Benjamin F.
Turner’s mind when he contemplated the damage
on the morning after every Halloween orgy. As a

276

 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
  

former police officer and head Ofthe Passaic De-
tective Bureau for many years, and being elected
Commissioner of the City of Passaic and assigned
to the Park and Recreation Departments, the Com—
missioner had both a duty to his constituents and
a consciousness of the civic welfare of his city.
Too, his fondness for, and understanding°of boys
and girls undoubtedly played their part. “Chil—
dren,” he reasoned, “aren’t born with malice and
the intentional desire to‘damage property.”

With this conviction as a starting point, the
good Commissioner devised a plan of diverting
youthful enthusiasm and unreasoning fun into a
project which would not only excite and interest
the children of the city but their parents as well.
His plan captured the imagination of the children,
for it was both simple and unique. As for the par-
ents (who after all are the tax paying citizenry of
the city), their enthusiasm caught fire from the
very first. And so—because a man understood how
to divert youthful energies into the right channels
—an idea became a reality. And thus Halloween
became for one locality, not a nightmare but a
night of fun. All this began sixteen years ago, and
now Commissioner Turner’s parade is a traditional
custom in Passaic.

On 'a day in September, 1931, Commissioner
Turner called a meeting of his recreation staff and
outlined his plans. Instead of the usual free-for-all
antics of Halloween, he suggested a gigantic cos—
tume parade. He reminded his colleagues that
Philadelphia has its Mummers, New Orleans its
Mardi Gras and St. Louis its Masked Prophets
Ball. Borrowing from the traditions of these othe
cities, Passaic could inaugurate another kind 0
revelry—a Halloween Parade.

What clinched the idea was it purpose. Thi
particular fun might have a social benefit, that o
keeping the “mischief” out of “mischief night.’
The plan was sold to the city. Organizations sucl
as schools and churches cooperated with interes
and enthusiasm. The local papers publicized th
plan. Students of each school paraded together i
their own respective groups. All public, private
and parochial schools were represented. It was
grand affair, but that first Halloween Parade i
1931 was only the forerunner of successively big
ger and better and more spectacular shows whicl
have become steeped in tradition.

Today, with due pomp and ceremony, costume
and floats, all-around fun marks the annual fest'
val. There are five thousand marchers. Grown—u
as well as the children participate, for they are n
adverse to casting off the dignity of their years t
relive in the gaiety of a night the carefree times

RECREATI

a long past childhood. All along the route, which
follows the principal streets of the city, the side-
walks are lined with tens of thousands of specta-
tors. Residents from surrounding communities, as
well as the Passaicites, are attracted to one of the
largest affairs conducted in the City of Passaic.

[Young and old, in a holiday mood, watch Commis-
sioner Turner and his “kids” take over Passaic in
a parade that might without exaggeration be com—
pared to even a Beau Arts demonstration. Through
the courtesy of the Police Department, the parade
is led by a motorcycle squad of Passaic police
clearing the way through the crowd for the revel-
ers behind them. (The Department also closes off
these streets to traffic.)

There is always much speculation about what
costume Commissioner Turner will don for the
evening, as he is always the guiding spirit of the
whole parade and revelry. In previous parades he
has portrayed a county politician, Uncle Sam, a
policeman of the vintage of 1900, a cowboy and a
pirate.Whatever character he portrays he does with
characteristic humor and an actor’s flair for im-
personation.

A major attraction in the 1946 parade was a
group of boys dressed in the uniform of the Key-
stone cops of early movies, wearing tall hats, long,
gold-buttoned coats of old-style police uniforms,
complete even to the clubs and whistles.

Each year music for the marchers is furnished
by the Passaic High School band and bands of
other organizations, giving the parade six bands,
each with a full assortment of short ‘skirted drum
majorettes, posturing and twirling away with
rhythm and skill.

Nearby riding stables furnish
horsemen to do some trick riding.

pThese experts, in western attire,
display horsemanship that makes

Ianother major attraction for the
applauding spectators.

' Various nationality groups par-
ade in native costume occasionally,
giving way in high spirits to their
national dances.

I Witches march hand in hand

Invith hobgoblins, the fairy queen
trips along beside Satan, cowboys
on foot, Indians, tramps and comi-
cal costumed paraders all make
their way along the route. The
variety of the costumes in which the
Iparaders— deck themselves out is an
iastonishing tribute to the fertility
of the human imagination. Every-

, SEPTEMBER 1947

thing blends into a riot of color, fun and gay music.

The climax of the parade is the review in front
of the Recreation Department Office on the flag-
draped reviewing stand. Here prominent citizens
of Passaic, invited by the Recreation Department,
judge costumes for prizes which are donated by
local merchants. The categories for judging are
plentiful and varied. The prizes are for the best
tramp, most comical, best colonial, most beautiful,
best clown, best foreign, most original, best na—
tional, outstanding female and outstanding male.

Here, also, the official photographer is busy
clicking away, preserving for city records, pictures
of sights which, could they have looked down,
would have amazed even those legendary witches
and warlocks riding their broomsticks, the original
instigators of all this merrymaking. For never is
there a more weird sight than the staid streets of
Passaic when each Halloween of the present rolls
around.

Sports Not Spooks

oerG BOUTS, an exhibition football game and
B a costume parade plus music and dancing were
highlights of the City Recreation Bureau—spon-
sored jamboree held last Halloween at Foreman
Field in Norfolk,Virginia. Nearly 10,000 tots, teen-
agers and adults turned out for the city’s first or-
ganized effort to divert Halloween revelers from
their usual pranks in the downtown business,
section.

Carnival at the rink

b

 

277

A concert by the Norfolk Fireman’s band opened
the festivities at 7 P.M. and featured an exhibition
of baton twirling by the band’s drum majorette.
Following the musical activities three fast ama-
teur boxing bouts were presented. (The United
States Navy made the boxing ring available for
this event.) Then the top members of the Com-
munity Junior Football League took to the grid—
iron for a regulation, but non-official, league con-
test. Mimeographed programs listed the players
by name, number, position, weight, height, school
and age and these were available to the audience.
The game ended with a score 0f 13 to 0.

Following the sports side of the festival, a cos-
tume parade was held and although children pre-
' dominated, some of their elders entered into the
spirit of the frolic and joined the marchers. Prizes
were awarded in three classes—to children under
12, teenagers and adults, and the Halloween garb
ranged from Superman and the Wolf Gal to tradi-
tional national dress. Dancing to the jive rhythm
of a swing band was the last feature of the evening.

Newspaper articles the following day commented
that the success of the four-hour jamboree was
“largely due to the orderly manner in which the
crowd was handled and the smooth how of enter-
tainment which saw the various features go off
without a noticeable lull.” Boy Scouts assisted the
police as ushers inside the stadium and the entire
jamboree was made possible through the coopera-
tion of many local organizations, including the
Retail Merchants’ Association (which donated the
prizes for the costume parade), the Norfolk Police
Department, the Boy Scouts, the Navy, the Vir-

ginia Transit Company, the College of William and
Mary and many individuals who contributed their
services.

The City Recreation Bureau also sponsored car-
nivals at the health center and at the local skating
rinks. Refreshments were furnished by the Bureau
and the rinks donated the costume prizes. Ap-
proximately 200 colorfully costumed children at—
tended each rink where skating exhibitions and
music were featured.

Admission to all events sponsored by the City
Bureau was free and Norfolk dwellers, from all
indications, seemed to enjoy a Halloween of sports
instead of spooks.

278

Mardi Gras!

By JOHN ALEXANDER

Recreation Department
Tucson, Arizona

RIOR TO 1927 Tucson newspapers on the morn-
P ing after Halloween printed numerous ac-

counts of various types of damage done by
children celebrating the night of spooks and gob-
lins. In that year a civic-minded citizen named
Dooley Bookman, who operated a magazine stand
and soda fountain, conceived the idea of having a
party for the children at which they could relieve
themselves of their Halloween energies and pranks
in a harmless way.

Dooley requested permission to rope off half the
street in front of his store for the party and at his
own expense he advertised the celebration and
provided noisemakers, masks, candy and such.
There was a capacity crowd of happy children.
The first party was so successful that the second
year he secured the cooperation of all merchants
on his side of the street; and the third year, all
merchants in the entire block cooperated by con-
tributing t0 the party.

In 1933 Dooley died and left the annual event
without a sponsor. The Council of the city of
Tucson, recognizing the value of the civic project,
voted a contribution to the program; and the
Tucson Junior Chamber of Commerce with the
cooperation of the City Recreation Department,
began active sponsorship of the event which is now
known as the Dooley Bookman Memorial Mardi
Gras. In 1938 the crowds became so large that the
celebration was moved 'to the huge high school
athletic field and stadium where it has been held
each year since. In 1945 the attendance was over
10,000 children and adults, and property damage
was negligible.

Any city with a live civic organization should
be able to sponsor a similar event for their town
on the night of Halloween. The program will giv
the children something to look forward to an
something to do on the night of spooks; and th
saving of property and prevention of petty mis
chief will be of immeasurable value to local citizen
and merchants.

RECREATIO

 

Here is a brief outline of the event as it is'pre-
sented in Tucson each year at the local high school
athletic field and stadium.

The gates to the field open at 6:30 P.M., about
dark, and all children in costume are required to
enter from a'gate opposite the stadium and judges’
stand. Only children old enough to participate
alone and in costume are admitted. Children not in
costume must enter the stadium and are not al-
lowed on the field. At 7:00 P.M. a serpentine line
forms at one end of the field, and led .by several
Jaycees wearing large heads made of papiersmaché
and painted gaudy colors, the line zig-zags across
the field in front of the stadium and around the far
side to the starting point. Then it zig-zags across
the field again. In the center of the field is the
judges’ stand, and as the line passes this stand the
second time around the judges for the various
divisions begin selecting the winners. Judges place
those selected into a roped-off area near the stand
for the final selection and judging. On the north
end of the field is a platform from which the chil-
dren receive noisemakers, hats, horns and such,
and on the south end is another platform from
which they receive candy as the line passes. This
zig—zagging continues until all prize winners are
selected. To conclude the parade the children are
led through a gate into the street to the conces-
sions, and as they pass through the gate each is
given candy and ice cream or popcorn. During the
entire parade the king and queen are seated on
thrones in the center of the large platform on the
field watching the procession ; the concessions are
going full blast on the street in front of the sta-
dium; and parents watch their children from the
stadium itself.

Advance Planning

The main factors in putting on the event suc-
cessfully begin with the appointment of a chair-
man who will be able to select working assistants
for the main divisions of the show and who will
see that each phase of the job is done thoroughly,
well in advance of the date of the event. The an-
nual cost of the entire show in Tucson is approxi-
mately $3 50, and this amount is given by the city
of Tucson for the promotion of the city—wide affair.
Members of the Tucson Junior Chamber of Com-'
merce provide all manpower for putting on the

show and assume full responsibility for the success
of the Mardi Gras.

General Chairman: The duties of the general
chairman are to supervise the main details of the
event and guide, direct, and advise the various co-
chairmen appointed by him in order to coordinate

SEPTEMBER 1947

 

the various details into a complete show unit. A
meeting of all co-chairmen is held approximately
five weeks prior to the event, and general plans
are made with the duties of each chairman out-
lined. Two or three meetings, as required, are held
between the fii'st meeting and the date of the show
in order to check on progress made by each chair-
man and to lay definite plans for the program.

Publicity: The chairman of publicity has one of
the most important jobs in the entire celebration.
He must properly use all available facilities to get
the word around that the event is to be held, that
prizes will be awarded for the best costumes, and
that all children are invited. Successful and
thorough publicity will assure a successful party.
Publicity should begin at least a month in advance
of the party with the following stressed in differ-
ent articles every two, or three days until the day
of the show:

Announcement that the program will be held.

Sponsoring organization and the committee.

Merchants’ cooperation.

Costume contest—list divisions.

King and queen contest—several articles.

List of prizes donated to date.

List of concessions.

Crowning of king and queen—by whom, ceremony,
etc. '

Approval of local police department, civiiz, parent
and church organizations.

List of judges.

Instructions for children planning to attend. Stress
that only children in costume may participate.

On the day of the show an article accompanied
by a photograph of the king and queen in their
royal costumes, a complete list of prizes, and a
summary of the planned program should be printed

279

in the newspapers. Experience has shown that a
large number of different articles, each stressing
and elaborating on one important phase of the
show, will do more good and arouse more interest
than a few longer articles each covering in a gen-
eral way several points.

Also in connection with publicity, mimeo—
graphed sheets, letter—size on yellow paper with
black ink, telling of the contest and with roughly
drawn pictures of spooks, black cats or goblins
should be distributed to all schools.

If there is a radio station in town, several ten
or fifteen-minute programs may be presented by
the committee following somewhat the plan for
newspaper publicity. Radio programs should also
include an interview with the king and queen.
These programs will probably be provided with-
out charge by the stations. In addition numerous
spot~announcements of the civic project can be
made. Other ideas for publicity, depending on
local conditions, will suggest themselves.

Prizes: For a celebration presented for the first
time an article or two should be in the papers to
the effect that a Mardi Gras for children is to be
presented and that local merchants will be re—
quested to cooperate in making the event success-
ful. The prize chairman appoints several assistants
to call on local merchants and since the previous
newspaper articles have already informed the
merchant of the purpose of the party, he will usu-
ally bem‘ore than willing to cooperate.

King and Queen: When the Jaycees first began
the active sponsorship of the event the local news—
papers donated a small space in the form of a
coupon which was good for 100 votes for the king
and 100 votes for the queen. This coupon was
clipped, the nominees’ names filled in the spaces
and the coupon dropped into a box in a local store
or theater. A few days before the event the ballots
were counted and the boy and girl receiving the
largest number of votes were king and queen re—
spectively. A later system was that each city school
would have its election for king and queen and the
names of the winners from each school were listed
on the ballot in the newspaper. In this way the
number of names presented was limited and the
counting was much easier.

The idea of ballots was later dropped entirely.
During the past few years the contest has been
conducted by a local theater in connection with its
weekly children’s show. All children wishing to
enter the contest are required to bring a written
note from their parents giving their consent to the
child’s entering the contest and participating in the

280

program. Selection is made by popular acclaim
from the audience.

The king and queen are furnished with a cos-
tume and crown for use at the celebration and they
are permitted to keep these after the show. They
are escorted to the show in a limousine and de-
livered to the platform in regal fashion. During the
ceremony the Mayor of the city crowns their
maj esties as a part of the program.

Concessions: Local civic and other organizations
are permitted to set up concessions on the street
in front of the stadium for a five dollar fee. There
are game booths, hot dog, popcorn, candied apples
and other such concessions. The concession chair-
man must contact all local organizations and “sell”
them on the idea. Usually a concession for a rov—
ing salesman through the stadium is given out on a
flat rate or percentage.

NoisemakersI Favors and Candy: Free noise-
makers and candy are presented to all the children.
These must be obtained early to avoid disappoint-
ment. The chairman has to estimate the size of the
crowd and purchase sufficient items to insure some
for everyone. Arrangements must also be made to
have suflicient help for their distribution—the car-
nival atmosphere makes distribution a real job.
Any favors left over are distributed to local charit-
able children’s organizations.

‘ Costume Contest: The chairman of this division
must determine with the cooperation of the entire
group, the costume divisions for which prizes will
be given and he must also obtain three or more
judges for each division. Usually locally prominent
people are selected as judges and it is their duty
to observe the line of march and select possible
winners in their particular division. From these
final winners are selected. This chairman must
work closely with the prize chairman to determin
the number of prize winners to select. The follow
ing divisions, with slight variation from time t
time, have been used in former years:

 

Best costume in spirit of Halloween
Most elaborate costume
Best witch

Most comical costume
Best ghost

Best animal

Most grotesque head

Best western costume

Best military costume
Best homemade large head
Most original costume

Properties: All space for various judging div'
sions, platforms, public address system and so 0
are arranged by the property chairman.

RECREATI

 

Parade: beveral men should be appointed to
lead the line of march and they should be assisted
by numerous others to keep the serpentine line
following the proper zig-zag path. Barrels placed
at each turn will facilitate keeping order. Children
should not be allowed to run from one bend in the
line to the other. The line should pass close to the
judges’ stand in order that the judges may care-
fully observe the various costumes for selection of
I winners in each division.

Additional chairmen might include policing,
lighting, decorations and any other important

phases, depending on local conditions and needs.
Also, a lost and found booth clearly indicated and
announced from time to time over the public ad-
dress system will be of value.

The above covers briefly the show as it has been
successfully presented in Tucson, and it is hoped
that other cities with an interest in the youth of
their community may gain ideas and inspiration
for a similar Mardi Gras. The program in Tucson
has filled a definite need in the community and has
been an important factor in holding down petty
juvenile delinquency on the night of Halloween.

 

Recreation Can Help . . . .

HE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHS are taken from
“juvenile Delinquency—Practical Prevention”
by Ben Solomon, which is reviewed on the last
page of this magazine. The title of the section re—

printed below is “Recreation Can Help a Lot ’2.
#4... WM.

“Here follows a list of the many ways in which

 

recreational programs can affect vulnerable chil-
_ dren for good, thus helping to reduce delinquency.

“I. A program that creates and spreads joy,
happiness and laughter among children is in itself
a potent influence for mental, physical and emo-
tional health. Play is a child’s world and it should
not be denied to any of them. Where home or

neighborhood tensions weigh upon\the growing '

child, the laughter of the play group does much to
'counteract these pressures.

“2. Granted that many of the real needy ones
don’t partake of the programs there are a large
number of children who do. These, not the worst
in the land and certainly not the best, include many
who might easily be misled into anti-social ways.
Under the influence of good leadership in an or-
ganized play group they are just as easily led into
a more social program. The heroes they will here
look up to will certainly be of .a better type than
those they might find in the streets of a slum area.
This is especially true for the very young and im-
pressionable who tend to mimic so much of what
they see in others, children and leaders, with whom
they are acquainted.

“3. Recreation programs tend to take children
off the streets and every minute they are out from
the speeding traffic and away from the physical

SEPTEMBER 1947

and moral hazards of the neighborhood, they are)
safe in a constructive, skill-teaching program.

“4. Every skill a child learns, every chance he
has to excel in something, to ‘shine,’ is a big step
toward his own self-satisfaction, toward a feeling
of security and adequacy, toward becoming a con-
ventional, social being.

“5. If recreation programs can get the children
very young, especially under ten years of age, a
larger number of the highly vulnerable ones could
be steered right.

“6. Recreation is particularly valuable in those
towns and areas, rural and urban, where youth has
the legitimate complaint that ‘there is nothing to
(lg and what there is isn’t decent.’

“7. Co-ed programs in the teen ages are par-
ticularly valuable and needed from thirteen years
of age up. These must be conducted by profession-
als who not only know recreational activities but
also know what teen agers think, want and should
have. It is quite possible to give them jive without
gin, glamour and excitement without moral haz-
ards, to counteract the disadvantages of some
highly attractive but dangerous commercial

amusements.

“8. Recreation is a program through which a
leader can establish contact with potential delin-
quents, cultivate their confidence and influence
their behavior and ideals. A good leader does this
not only through the activities but through the in-
fluence of his own character, personality and ex—
ample.”

281

// 
% W
\\

» ECREATION CONGRESS delegates will be swing-
R ing their partners and honoring their corners
under the leadership of Ed Durlacher, na-
tionally known authority on square dancing, when
the Congress comes to town on October 13-17 at
the Hotel New Yorker in New York City. Square
dancing and other social recreation activities will
be led by Mr. Durlacher who, with his own band,
will have charge of the play demonstration on the
opening night of the Congress.

Mr. Durlacher has lectured and taught in high
schools and colleges, led mass groups in New
York City parks and at Jones Beach, appeared on
the radio and before television. He is the author
of several books, numerous magazine articles and
has made many recordings: For four years he has
conducted the Pepsi Cola square dances for the
Park Department in New York City. He has led
as many as 600 sets of dances on the door at one
time—which is a mighty feat!

 

Increasing Number of Cities Send Delegates
to the Recreation Congress “

In connection with the forthcoming National
Recreation Congress, local recreation authorities
will be interested in the results of a recent study
made by the Association to determine the present
policy of recreation authorities in sending board
members, executives and staff workers to the
National Recreation Congress.

A recent questionnaire was sent to nearly 700
cities conducting year-round recreation programs.
Replies were received from approximately 50 per-
cent of these cities. Cities were asked to report on
the policy of the authorities in paying expenses for
board members, for executives and for staii work-

282

ers. Also they were asked to report on whether
time Off was allowed for staff workers even though
no echnses were provided.

Recreation executives in 73 percent of the cities
replying were sent to the Congress with full ex-
penses paid. This represents a 50 percent increase
in the cities sending workers since the last study
was made in 1940.

In 26 percent of the cities replying, staff work—
ers are sent with full expenses paid. In this con-
nection it is interesting to note that in 67 percent
of the cities replying, employed workers are al-
lowed time off for Congress attendance though no
expenses are paid.

A very interesting development since the last
study is the policy of cities with reference to send—
ing board members. In 1940 only 1 I cities reported
that board members were sent as an official policy.
This year 62 cities reported sending of board mem-
bers to the Congress—this is an increase of over
500 percent. ‘

As usual there were a number of variations. For
example, 15 cities reported fiat appropriations
ranging from $100 to $500 to cover travel ex-
penses. Ten cities reported that expenses would be
paid if the convention should be held in the home
state or within a given area.

The net result of the present study indicates
that local recreation authorities and public officials
generally have come to recognize the Value of
having both professional and lay members respon-
sible for community recreation programs attend
regularly the meetings of the National Recreation
Congress. It is most encouraging that there has
been such a large increase in the number of cities
sending board members. ,

The Association appreciates very much the co—
operation on the part of the executives in sending
in the information on which this study was based
and we are very happy to make available the re—
sults for the benefit of local boards considering the
question of sending representatives to the Congress.

Opening on Monday, October I 3, the Congress
general sessions and discussion groups will con-
tinue through Friday, covering such topics as rec-
reation programs for older people, rural recrea-
tion, public relations, recreation on the college
campus, personnel, equipment problems, music,
drama, nature, arts and crafts and many additional
subjects of current interest in the field of recrea-
tion. The industrial recreation meetings will be
held the first two days of the Congress, October
13 and 14. Speakers for. the general sessions will
be announced in the near future.

RECREATION

Festival of American Song

By ALAN JENKINS and WILLIAM H. JACKSON
GalesburgI Illinois

1,000 people gathered in Central Congrega-

ON A NOVEMBER Sunday night in 1946 about
tional Church, Galesburg, Illinois, for an

' interracial and interfaith Festival of American
' Song. They sang familiar songs. They listened to
- seven local choirs, one quartet, two soloists, an

organist and a narrator. One singing group was in
the choir loft, the others were here and there in the
pews. One never knew where the next song would
start. The choirs were from Galesburg churches,
from the Carver Community Center, the high
school, and Knox College. The narrator was John
P. Leland of Knox College.

The Festival opened with an organ medley “I
Hear America Singing.” It closed with the high
school choir singing “The Lord Bless You and
Keep You,” followed by an organ postlude “Glory,
Glory, Hallelujah.” In between were “work songs,
play songs, sad songs, gay songs”—songs drama-

' tizing the march of American democracy. “Ballad

!

II

for Americans,” with its accent on brotherhood in
action, key-noted the music. Among the high
points was the singing by the whole group of “God
of Our Fathers” with both the organ and high
school trumpet trios in accompaniment.

The basic script, furnished by Miss Grace Walker
of the National Recreation Association, was aug-
mented and given local coloring from Galesburg
experiences. Some of the poetry of Galesburg-born
Carl Sandburg was used. The purchase from the
federal government of the Carver Community
Center building and equipment was dramatized as
an example of intergroup cooperation.

How It Happened

It is our belief at Carver Center that the pro-
gram should be for the entire community and not
for any one group. To that end we held in Septem-
ber a week-long recreation training institute with
Miss Walker in charge. Her classes were well at-
tended -—and thoroughly mixed. In them she

.stressed the use of simple material. Among the

examples she used was an interesting and rich
program using well-known songs and a dramatic
script.

' As they participated in bringing this script alive,
the hundred people who came to the institute

‘SEPTEMBER 1947

sampled the satisfaction of a creative community
activity requiring a minimum of rehearsals. They
found among other things, that familiar songs
could take on fresh values via a good script and
by virtue of the spontaneous plus-factors inherent
in meaningful intergroup activity. I '

As a result of the institute one of Carver Cen-
ter’s dynamic board members seized on the gen-
eral plan as an ideal way to celebrate the recent
purchase of the center’s building and equipment.
She is a fine combination of dreamer and doer in
community affairs, and she sold the festival idea to
choir leaders, a minister and others in the com-
munity. Another member of the Carver Center’s
Board helped to adapt the script.

The original plan was to have the festival spon-
sored by the center’s music committee, but it was
very quickly. decided that the festival would be far
more effective and more representative of the
entire community if other agencies backed it. So it
came about that the Council of Churches and the
public affairs committee became joint Sponsors—
and the festival, the first of a series of Sunday
evening programs sponsored by these two groups
—became a fact. Before the performance all com-
munity groups had been included in the thinking
and planning.

Performance

Color and creed differences were forgotten that
November night. We were just hundreds of Ameri-
cans singing our common songs, our common faith.
We became, for that swift hour, “One peOple out
of many.” Everyone felt it. Everyone knew that
the quotation from Harold B. Hoskins on the pro-
gram was not just star-Spangled fancy — “Our
American ideal should not be expressed in terms
of a ‘melting pot’ with its somewhat mournful im-
plication of uniformity, but rather in terms of an‘
orchestra, in which each racial group, like an or-
chestral choir, contributes its special different tone
to the rich ensemble of the whole.”

The formula for a “Festival of American Song”
is simple: a National Recreation Association
script, a Miss Grace Walker (if possible), a local
person to spark the program, cooperating groups,
and a place. No “grand rehearsal” needed! Try it!

283

The Script

The script that we used, combined of Recreation Asso-
ciation material and local effort, follows. Perhaps other
groups may find it valuable.

ORGAN MEDLEY——“I Hear America Singing”

VOCALIST SINGS—-“I hear America singing—one for all, all
for one, is the song”

AN AUDIENCE VOICE—“What is the American idea?”

READER—It is the big idea that on a continent 3,000 miles
wide people of 47 Old World nationalities have come
together to live as one nation, promising each other
brotherhood. . . . The big idea that people of all the
racial strains of the one human family have agreed
upon a Constitution, promising each other parity of
opportunity. . . . The big idea that individual citizens
who worship at all the altars of the world’s living relig-
ions may have freedom for their minds, their souls, and
liberty to struggle for the kind of world they want . . .
with only one requirement—that they promise each
other brotherhood.

This promise of brotherhood is implicit in our beloved
national hymn: (organ played softly during reading of first
stanza of My Country ’Tis of Thee)

My country! ’tis of thee
Sweet land of liberty,

Of thee I sing:

Land where my fathers died!
Land of the pilgrims pride!
From every mountain side_
Let freedom ring!

0

Walk around the blocks of any city square,

Or down the stretch of a country lanep

Ride in a coal car in a Pennsylvania mine,

Oran iron car in a Minnesota pit;

Follow the hod carrier on a brick-laying job,

Or the planter in the cotton fields;

Watch the mechanic in a Midwestern garage,

Or the fisherman on the Pacihc coast.

Anywhere-—everywhere—watch America at work . . .

And listen!

Listen to America sing—work songs, play songs,

Sad songs, gay songs-—

You hear America sing!

Whence came these songs?

Down through the centuries endlessly singing comes the
great song.

You are a part of it as I am, and from the centuries comes
our song. '

It is a song of strength—of fight-—of courage—of love—of
unconquered peOple—

It is a song washed with the tide, roaring against the
rocky coast of Maine,

And washed with the Wind through the magnolia trees of
the deep South. M

It is a song borne over the prairies in cumberSome wagons
and etched with the blood of the pioneers.

It is a song of the loneliness of the plains and a campfire
outlining a solitary sleeper.

It is a song of the majesty of the mountains and the fearful
thunder of water pouring down canyons.

It is a song of the soft-footed men of God, chanting their
solemn Te Deums in the gardens of the west.

It is a song for the bondaged struggling to be free, and the
free struggling to keep free.

284

It is a song of gaiety and laughter and life today, for to-
morrow might not come.

It is a song of people struggling to keep afloat a pennant
of idealism in a morass of untruths.

It is our song, and it began long ago—before the white
man’s pale face scattered birds in the thick forests of
Maine.

Ballad for Americans—Knox College Choir'and soloist

SCENE I—INDIAN TABLEAU
READER—When the land was young it began—

When the virgin forest stalked the land from east to west
and silently the red man glided through the forest to
lodge,

There is the evening’s blue, he rested, told his day’s adven-
tures, and listened to the nightbird’s call, shrill against
the moon.

SOLomFrom the Land of the Sky Blue Water

SCENE H—PILGRIMS
READER—Relentless is the push of civilization.

Westward and still westward came the white man, sailing
into the bays of Massachusetts, with the sun glinting
from the ship’s sails.

Fearless people, and protected by a faith so great that the
destruction of half their number could not daunt them.

They had a song.

ALL SING—with organ Faith of Our Fathers (2 stanzas)

SCENE Ill—THE FLAG

READER—The faith that grew in the hearts of those deter-
mined men became the ideal of a young nation-to-be.

And the cry for freedom rang along the shore of the At-
lantic, with never-diminishing strength until a new
nation was born.

They borrowed a tune and made a song that has rung
through the years—a challenge to those who scorn the
strength of the strong-in-heart.

Their song made a nation and a flag to fly wherever flags

are flown— _

Ah‘lag of freedom and refuge, and life as life was meant to be.

Liberty Under God—High School Choir

SCENE IV—THE SOUTH ‘
READER—And the nation grew and prospered.

America was born in a thousand places—a cove in Maine,
an island in New York, a plantation in Virginia, a
cabin in Kentucky.

But the nation, united in purpose, dissented in ideals, and
there came a race baptized in bondage and paying
homage to a material king.

They had songs, too.

They sang of their religion, in song they prayed for freedom.
Deep River—Carver Center Choir

SCENE V—WESTWARD EXPANSION
READER—Meanwhile the nation struggled forward.

Out went the people.

The prairie grass blazing didn’t hold them.

The prairie poet, Carl Sandburg, sang a song of the prairies:
“l was born on the prairie and the milk of its wheat,
the red of its clover, the eyes of its women, gave me
a song and a slogan.” \

The mountains towering didn’t hold them, the people.

The plains were not wide enough. .

RECREATION

 

 

Courtesy Passw'c County Commission

Out they went with their wagons and their rifles—their
cattle and their homespun table-cloths—-their prayers
and their loneliness.

Out they went until the mighty, heaving breast of the Pacific
gathered them close, and they' stretched their lungs to
shout the freedom that was theirs.

They left a trail of broken wagon wheels and bleached
bones,

They left, too, a heritage of campfire songs.

C indy—High School Choir

SCENE VI—THE BUILDING OF THE NATION

READER—5A bronzed lank man! His suit an ancient black.

A famous high top-hat and plain worn shawl
Make him the quaint great figure that men love,
The prairie lawyer, master of us all.

This was America.

There was another America, the land of plenty!
Caiety became characteristic

Gold and satin—diamonds and tandem bicycles,
Plush chairs and leg-o-mutton sleeves,

Songs of aspiration became fainter.

Ballad for Americans (continued)———Knox College Choir and
Soloist

SCENE VII—WORLD WAR 1

READER—The band played on and on.

Baseball and Coney Island, waltzing and revival meetings,
picnics in the park—this was America.
America sang and grew rich.

SEPTEMBER 1947

And then again the despots threatened to crush an'ironiheel
upon the nation, and the lusty youths threw awaysthej:
bicycles and climbed into orange crates that flewj-and
went off to make the world safe for democracy.

They sang. They sang as they marched and fought and died.

Keep the Home Fires Burning—two verses sung by Galesburg
Harmony Society '

.4-

SCENE VIII—B‘ETWEEN WARS f‘r
READER—But beneath the endless gaiety and behind the
delirious singing h I.
The beat of the heart of America could be heard

And the heart beat became a song  - i
To the God of their fathers, known of old. . ' - 2 '~

Trio; First verse-Trinity Lutheran Choir; Second
verseu—Emmanuel Methodist Choir; Third verse—FirSt
Methodist Choir; Fourth verse—all sing

SCENE Ian—WORLD WAR II .
READER—Still many danced and sang.

Sometimes the songs that were prayers for peace Could'not
be heard. E
And suddenly, with the ominous portent of a summer storm,

there burst the roar of cannon on the beaches, and
thunder boomed, and lightning burned the hearts of
those who danced.
America has always sung. There were songs for that, too.
But behind the marching feet and the songs of war,
Someone was always praying for peace.
And always deep in the heart of youth were the gay songs ——-
Songs made out of nonsense and dreams—songs always
spilling out with the silencing of the guns— '

Over the Rainbow—Carver Center Choir r

SCENE X—THE CLIMB TOWARD PEACE

READER—The tflames of war died down. Scorched earth,
homeless millions, hungry children, white crosses", row
on row, distrust,_disunity remained. "

no
I

The torch of peace burned faintly. ,
The long slow climb to world understanding began. .~'  -

The world wanted peace. Everyone could sing: a -. ,

We Are Climbing Jacob’s Ladder—A.M.E. Choir. All sing
6th verse——“We are climbing higher and higher”

Out of such aspiration came progress wherever those"who
loved the ways of peace were ready to work for it, '

Where Galesburg’s forefathers broke the prairies . . 1

There Was a center of wholesome fellowship ‘ _ _

A place where men in uniform could gather for a touch 'of

-I.'|

home and fun and friendship.  '
USO Centers were for war days. Days of peace brougit
questions: ' ' ‘ ‘

VOICES FROM AUDIENCE: What will become of Carver Center ?‘
Why can’t Galesburg own it? ' i ‘
Why can’t we develop some George Washington Carvers ?:

READER—The torch of peace and brotherhood burned ,more
brightly. , ‘ . p
The friends of Carver Center gathered and planned and
worked. 'I' ' 1
An understanding community gave help. - “a;
It was a simple drama—a drama of'friendliness in action. .
A drama with a vision of a Centef, adCenter for singing
voices and busy hands, ' ii i‘.’ '
A Center for growing manhood and finer womanhood. vi
The end long desired has come.

Today, before our eyes, we see:

28‘s

The members of. the Carver Center Board of Directors

the members of the Advisory Board of Carver Center.

We see the postman bring to the Mayor of Galesburg, the
.Sales Agreement for turning Carver Center over to the
_City of Galesburg. We see the Mayor present to the Treas-
urer of Carver Center Advisory Board the Sales Agree-
ment. We see the Mayor give to the Chairman of
Carver Center Board the deed to the property. We see
the Mayor turn over to the Chairman of Carver Center
Advisory Board, a written statement explaining that
the city holds nominal title to the property with the
understanding that the building be used by Carver Com-
munity Center, Inc., for community purposes.

Rejoicing in the climbing of the local “Jacob’s Ladder”
that is Carver Community Center, we join in singing
the last stanza of that spiritual:

All sing 6th verse—~“We are climbing higher and higher”

EPILOCUE

READER—“In the darkness with a great bundle of grief the
people march

In the night, and overhead a shovel of stars for keeps, the

people march
Where to? What next?”

The deepest songs are the songs of prayer—

Prayer that we may be used of God in the building of a
brotherhood world

Prayer of our priarie poet
“Lay me on an anvil, O God,
Beat me and hammer me into a crowbar
Let me pry loose old walls
Let me lift and loosen old foundations.”

Through prayer man becomes the doer of things impossible.

“ ‘Man will never write,’ they said before the alphabet came
and man at last began to write.

“ ‘Man will never fly,’ they said before the planes and
blimps zoomed and purred in arcs winding their circles
around the globe.

“‘Man will never make the United States of Europe nor
yet later the United States of the World.’

“ ‘No, you are going too far when you talk about one world
flag for the great Family of Nations,’ they say that
now. .

“And man, the stumbler and finder goes on
“Man the dreamer of deep dreams

“Man the shaper and maker

“Man the answerer.”

The Lord Bless You and Keep You—High School Choir
PosrLUDE—Glory, Glory, Hallelujah

 

Safety Tips for H untsmen . . .

DON’T START on a hunting trip until you have
thoroughly inspected your gun, with SPECIAL
ATTENTION given to its firing mechanism and the
interior of the barrels. “Safety First” for gunners
begins at home."

Don’t carry '5' loaded gun in your car or other
vehicle and don’t load until you are actually ready
to hunt. Under the law, persons carrying loaded
guns in cars are liable to arrest and fine. This is
the first in importance of the unwritten rules of the
hunting field.

Don’t carry your gun while hunting except with
the muzzle pointed toward the sky. Never let the
muzzle sweep the horizon where fellow hunters
would be in line of an accidental discharge.

Don’t shoot at moving brush nor at any object
until you have identified positively the game bird
or animal. You will thus avoid causing an accident
and with the steadying delay you will be more
likely to bag your quarry.

Don’t when resting, lean your gun against a tree
or post nor lay it on the ground until you have
first opened the breech.

Don’t climb a fence, nor jump a ditch with a
loaded gun, unless you first open the breech. And
learn to hunt with the safety lock on triggers.

Don’t draw the gun toward you, muzzle first,
from a car, through a fence nor on the ground. A

sine.

dozen different causes might accidentally spring
the trigger.

Don’t gun with nor near an intoxicated person.
A drunken gunner is as dangerous as a drunken
driver, and for the safety of himself and others,
should be reported at once to wardens or police.

Don’t permit yourself to become careless or reck-
less in the more exciting moments of the hunt.
Help your state keep its record clear of hunting
casualties.

Don’t fail- to respect the rights and protect the
property of farmers and land owners. Under a
1946 law the discharging of a firearm within 300
feet of an occupied dwelling except by the owner
of the property is prohibited. Always obtain per—
mission to hunt.

Don’t hunt on any government reservation, in-
cluding arsenals, forts, camps, landing fields, air-
ports, aircraft stations, defense factory premises,
storage yards or warehouse sites. Such areas are
usually restricted.

Don’t hunt with foreign-made guns unless it is
first determined whether they are legal, or have
sufficient strength to be used safely with Ameri-
can types of ammunition. This particularly applies
to ex—servicemen who have brought souvenir guns
from overseas.

Don’t hesitate to report fish and game law vio-
muons—Division of Fish and Game, New Jersey
State Department of Conservation.

RECREATION

 

HIRTY-NINE STATES in all are now making
Tsome kind of state service available to com-
munity recreation programs. The kind of ser-
vice available ranges from full-time field consulta-
tion service to materials and consultation service
Ion some particular recreation activity like dra-
matics. There is great variety in the kinds of state
agencies which offer the services. ‘
In the field of rural recreation there are now
3 3 states where at least one Agricultural Exten-
sion Service worker is devoting some time to help-
, ing train recreation leaders, conduct activities or
. organize programs. In 18 states there are full-
time rural recreation specialists with varying
titles. In 20 states, including some of the above,
18, there are part-time rural recreation workers.
Eight states are actively looking for full-time,
rural recreation specialists.

The picture changes frequently, but according
'to the latest information received the following
I summary shows the situation in the various states
fat the present time.

 

|

cation is taking an active part in community
recreation. During the fall and winter of 1946-47,
17 institutes for training recreation leaders were
conducted in the state by members of the staff
of the National Recreation Association. Local
arrangements for practically all of these institutes
were worked out by the State Director.

The State Planning Board is making general
plans for recreational development of various com-
.munities, and—in cooperation with the Division
*of State Parks in the Department of Conservation,

l
Alabama
i The State Director of Physical and Health Edu-

other agencies and organizations—is preparing a
state master plan for recreation. The Planning
Board is also making general plans of recreational
development for various communities.

' A bill has been introduced in the legislature
which would establish a state recreation board.
The bill would call for an appropriation of $25,000

.for each of the next two fiscal years beginning
October I, 1947. .

l

' 'SEPTEMBER 1947

Recreation Service of State Agencies 'I

to Communities

Arkansas

Position of Recreation Specialist in Agricultural
Extension Service is established. Replacement is
now being sought for worker who held this posi—
tion before the war.

California

The legislature has passed and the Governor has
approved a bill creating a state recreation commis-
sion. An appropriation of $79,000 has been made
to cover the period from September 23, 1947 to

June 30, 1948.

The State Youth Authority gives recreation
service to communities through a full-time recrea-
tion consultant on the staff.

The Education Code requires that recreation
consultant service be given to all schools, and a
full-time recreation consultant has been added to
the staff of the Department of Education’s division.
The supervisor of physical education for girls gives
advisory service in recreation to communities.

The Recreation Planner of the Division of
Beaches and Parks works with communities,
schools and organizations in connection with con-
servation education program.

Colorado

The Bureau of State and Community Service of
the University of Colorado, with the cooperation
of the University of Denver and Colorado A. & M.

College, Sponsored a conference on community
recreation'in June 1947.

There is a full-time Recreation Specialist in the
Agricultural Extension Service.

Connecticut

Part-time recreation service_is given by at least
one worker in the AgriculturalExtension Service.
Delaware

Special recreation service is given to communi-
ties by the Director and staff of the Department of
Dramatics of the University of Delaware.

287

The state supervisors of art and music of the
Department of Education give stimulation to com-
munity music and art programs in addition to the
work' they do with the schools.

Georgia

The Georgia Citizens’ Council maintains a Rec-
reation Division headed by a full-time staff person.
A full-time recreation worker heads up a recrea-
tion training program in the Agricultural Exten-

sion ;Ser,vice.

Illinois

At a meeting called by the Governor in March
at which there were representatives of the Depart-
ments of Public Instruction, Parks and Memorials,
Conservation and Welfare, and the University of
Illinois, the Governor was requested to appoint
a state advisory recreation committee to plan a
state recreation consultant service.

There is a Recreation Supervisor in the Agri-
cultural Extension Service. During the summer
thi‘ee'additional full-time recreation workers are

employed.

lh’idian‘a

 University of Indiana has established a
Recreation Consultant Service with a trained
worker. in charge.

Variousdivisions of the Conservation Depart-a

ment are called on by communities for advice on

a. i :3 '. 3 i ' u ' ‘ ' I

recreation With regard particularly to nature

agtiyities, landscape de51gn and park layouts.
Purdue University prov1des recreation service

to rural communities, particularly in music.

There is an Assistant State Leader in the Agri—

cultural Extension Service who gives full time to
the field of recreation.
' The'Economic- Council, successor to the former
State. Planning Board, has taken an active interest
inhthe advancement of recreation opportunities
within the state and has appointed a special com-
mittee to bring about joint consideration and
action by all agencies concerned with recreation.
The Recreation Consultant of the University of
Indiana is chairman of this State Advisory Com-
mittEe on Recreation.

uA‘Governor’s Conference on Recreation held
early in 1947 was very well attended. There were
special sessions on municipal recreation programs,
on. :recreation facility development and the use of
existing-facilities; 'and,on the development of rec—
reation programs—“in small towns and rural areas.

288

\

q

Iowa _:

    
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  

The Agricultural Extension Service in Iowa has
a full-time Extension Associate in drama and is
searching for a person to head up their music
work and a full-time general recreation specialist.
A worker has been employed on a per diem basis
to give recreation training to county workers. This
worker was formerly 4-H Recreation Specialist in
Oregon. She will continue giving service on a per
diem basis until a full-time worker can be located.
The municipal recreation executive of Cedar
Rapids is also helping out on a per diem basis to
meet with 4-H and rural women’s clubs to assist
them with plans for recreation activities. It is
hoped that he will have time to serve as counsellor
to rural community groups.

The Landscape Department of the State College,
assisted by the Extension. Forester, aids communi—
ties in planning parks and recreation areas.

Kansas

There is a dramatic loan library in the Depart-
ment of Speech at Kansas State College of Agri-
culture and Applied Science. This department
also offers consultation service to school and
community drama groups.

The position of Recreation Specialist in the
Agricultural Extension Service is established and
a replacement for a former worker is being sought.
There are two part-time recreation leaders.

Kentucky

In this State a Recreation Division has been
created in the Conservation Department and two
full-time recreation workers have been employed
to give primary attention to the development of
community recreation programs. The biennial
budget for this Division is $36,000.

The University of Kentucky through its College
of Agriculture has for the first time employed a
held recreation worker for service to rural sections
and small communities.

In addition there is a State Recreation Leader
on the state 4-H Club staff and there is also a
full-time field worker in rural recreation who is
employed jointly with Berea College.

Louisiana

A community recreation service operates with
two full-time rural sociologists under the Agri-

cultural Extension Service.
Louisiana State University, through its General

RECREATIO

Extension Division, gives special service through a
Specialist in Music and Handcrafts in the Bureau

of French Folk activities.

Maryland

One Agricultural Extension Service worker is
giving part of his time to recreation, and an at-
tempt is being made to locate a full-time person.

Massachusetts

{The state legislature has authorized the Depart—
ment of Conservation to extend consultant services
in recreation to communities in the state, but no
money has yet been appropriated for this purpose.

There are two Extension Specialists in Com-
munity Organization and Recreation under the
Agricultural Extension Service.

Michigan
The University of Michigan, through its

General Extension Service, has a program in-

Community Adult Education. An assistant in
community organi-
zation under this
program is available
on request to Michi-
gan communities
without charge for
consultation on the
organization of
communitycouncils,
adult education and
community recrea-
tion programs.

The Department
of Public Instruc-
tion maintains a
State Project in
Physical Education,
Recreation and
Camping With a
full-time director
who gives consider-
able assistance to
recreation.

There are three
full-time specialists
in rural music in
the Agricultural Ex-
tension Service at
Michigan State
College. The Serv-
ice conducts camps
for 4-H clubs and

SEPTEMBER .. 1947

farm women, both locally in the counties and on a
state basis. The Adult Education program at
the college offers aid to communities in leadership
training as well as a wide range of subject matter
in community education programs. County Exten—
sion agents in all counties promote the recreation
activities of rural people in connection with the
neighborhood, community and county groups.

Minnesota

_ The University of Minnesota appointed in Janu-
ary 1946 a Field Recreation Consultant who is
attached to the Department of Physical Education.

The Governor of Minnesota appointed a large
State Advisory Recreation Committee and author-
ized the head of the University’s Department of
Physical Education to select a smaller Execu-
tive Committee, of which he is chairman and the
Field Recreation Consultant executive secretary.
The Governor has offered to provide a secretary
or research consultant for the Advisory Recrea-
tion Committee.

 

28‘)

The Minnesota Postwar Council assists com-
munities with many local problems including
recreation. The director has himself met with local
groups in several communities.

The Division of Health, Physical Education and
Recreation of the Department of Education has
prepared and circulated materials to assist com-
munities in starting summer recreation programs.
The Supervisor of the Division advises and con-
sults with communities in planning year-round

programs. He has cooperated with the Field.

Recreation Consultant of the University in giving
joint advisory services in several instances.

The Minnesota Youth Conservation Commis-
sion was created by the last session of the legis-
lature with an appropriation of $50,000. There is
to be a state-wide study of juvenile delinquency as
a basis for determining needs for more youth-serv-
ing programs. The head of recreational leadership
courses at the University of Minnesota has been
granted a year’s leave of absence to head the pre-
vention division. This experienced recreation
worker sees it as his task to help provide rec-
reation areas, facilities, equipment and leadership
personnel for a well-rounded recreation program
for the state of Minnesota.

At least one Agricultural Extension Service
worker is giving part of his time to recreation.

Mississippi

The Agricultural Extension Service is hoping to
employ a full-time recreation specialist.

Missouri

A Recreation Section has been created in the
State Division of Resources and Development to
provide service in recreation to community groups.

At least two of the 4-H Club agents do exten-
sive recreation work including the conduct of train-
ing programs and direct assistance with problems
involving recreation.

Montana

There is a staff of three 4-H Club leaders in
the Agricultural Extension Service, and all three
do extensive recreation work. One worker is giv-
ing full time to recreation.

Some materials of value to community recreation
have been published through the Montana Study.

The Supervisor of Health, Physical Education
and Recreation of the State Board of Education
advises communities, whenever requested, in help-
ing to develop community recreation programs. '

290

Nebraska

The Agricultural Extension Service has a rec-
reation specialist who also gives some leadership
to older rural youth.

Nevada

One of the field work consultants of the Depart-
ment of Welfare’s Division of Child Welfare has
helped to organize recreation programs in some
small communities through volunteer leaders.

New Hampshire

The New Hampshire Forestry and Recreation
Commission has a Department of Recreation with
a director in charge.

The Agricultural Extension Service has a full-
time recreation specialist.

New Mexico
Two staff members in the Agricultural Exten—
sion Service gave considerable time to recreation.

New York

There is a Director of Recreation in the State
Youth Commission. According to the latest report
over 400 communities have received state aid for
recreation projects.

There is a Recreation Consultant in the State
Department of Commerce. ‘

The Division of Health and Physical Education
through publications and its supervisors of Physi-
cal Education and Recreation serves communities
and school districts. '

At least one member of the Agricultural Exten-
sion Service staff is giving considerable time in
the field of recreation.

North Carolina

The N orth'Carolina Recreation Commission was
established in 1945 to provide consultation service,
assist in training programs, and to make studies
for communities.

In addition to lending one of its faculty mem-
bers as Director of the State Recreation Commis-
sion, the University of North Carolina provides
service in music and drama through the Extension
Department.

The Agricultural Extension Service is seeking
a Recreation Specialist, but meanwhile three mem-
bers of the staff are devoting part of their time to
recreation.

North Dakota

North Dakota State College gives recreation
service through the head of its Drama Department
and Country Theater.

RECREATION

There is a part-time recreation worker in the
Agricultural Extension Service.

The Director of Physical Education for men at

. the University of North Dakota has given consulta—

tion service whenever requested in helping to
develop community recreation programs.

Ohio
There are two full-time recreation workers in
the Agricultural Extension Service.

| Ohio State University serves communities
L through a consultant in community organization.

I The State Department of Education gives some
community recreation service through the Super—
visor of Health, Physical Education and Recrea-
tion.

I Oregon .

|I There is a full-time Recreation Specialist in the
Agricultural Extension Service.

The Bureau of Municipal Research and Service
II of the University of 'Oregon provides planning
ll consultants to communities on a fee basis and pub-
l lishes some materials in the recreation field.

Pennsylvania

The Division of City Planning and Landscape
Architecture of the Bureau of Municipalities of'the
Department of Internal Affairs is available to give
planning service in recreation to communities.

There is a program of state aid to lOcal school
districts to help them conduct community recreation
activities. ‘

  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
   
    
 
  
  
 
 

There is a full-time Rural Sociologist doing rec-
reation work under the Agricultural Extension
Service.

Some recreation service is available to communi—
ties from the Director of Extension of the School
f Physical Education and Athletics at Pennsyl—
ania State College. A small library of films is
naintained, and recreation workshops for recrea-
ion leaders are held from time to time.

i
!

- ouih Carolina

There is a full-time head of the Recreation Sec—

ion of the South Carolina State Forestry Commis—
ion’s Park Division.

The Board of Education through its Physical
' ducation Department is extending its service in
he organization of recreation programs in small

ommunities and rural sections, largely through
he public schools.

 

  

_|
There is a part-time recreation worker in the
gricultural Extension Service.

«EPTEMBER 1947

South Dakoi’a

There are full-time specialists in music and
games on the staff of the Agricultural Extension
Service. There are several other part-time workers.

Tennessee

A full-time worker in the Division of Parks of
the Conservation Department is assisting in the
development of community recreation, particularly
in small cities, towns and rural communities. This
worker also cooperates with the Tennessee Valley
Authority.

The State Planning Board offers service to coun—
ties, cities and rural sections in planning and de-
veloping recreation facilities and programs.

Texas

There are at least three part—time recreation
people working in the Agricultural Extension Ser-
vice, and an attempt is being made to locate a
full-time worker.

The Department of Education is helping com-
munities plan new school buildings which will ade—
quately meet community as well as school needs.
A health consultant is stimulating the use of physi-
cal education personnel and resources for commu—
nity recreation activities. The music department is
stimulating community music programs.

Ufah

Through the Department of Education the State
Director of Health and Physical Education has
been working with the communities of the state in
organizing community and school recreation pro-
grams.

The Director of Physical Education at Utah
State College gives considerable advisory service
to communities where graduates of the college have
assumed physical education positions and are di-
recting community recreation programs.

There are two workers in the Agricultural Ex-
tension Service who give part-time to recreation.

Vermont

A State Recreation Board was established by
legislative action in March 1947, the three mem—
bers to be appointed by the Governor. The State
Director of Recreation, who ,was formerly respon-
sible to the Council of Safety, will continue under
the new board.

Virginia
The University of Virginia is taking an active

part in the recreation services available to com—
munities through its Extension Department, the

291

Bureau of Public Administration and the Bureau

of Population and Economic Research.

The Physical and Health Education Division of
the Department of Education has added a full-i
time worker in the field of recreation.

The Conservation Department has responsibility
for administering a special appropriation for the
development of community drama throughout the
entire state.

There are at least two people doing part—time
recreation work in the Agricultural Extension Ser-
vice and an attempt is being made to locate a full-

time worker.

Washington

A State Director of Health, Physical Education
and Recreation has been appointed and is giving
some recreation service to communities. The legis-
lature this year has apprOpriated another $2 50,000
for state aid to recreation programs of local school
authorities.

In the Agricultural Extension Service one staff
member is giving full-time to recreation, particu—
larly in training recreation leaders.

A State Parks and Recreation Commission was
created by the legislature in 1947 to succeed the
former State Parks Committee. Provision is made
for the eventual appointment of a Supervisor of
Recreation, though funds for such a position were
not apprOpriated.

West Virginia

A member of the staff who will do recreation
training work has been added by the Agricultural
Extension Service.

Wisconsin

The Board of Regents of the University of Wis-
consin has authorized the employment of a State
Field Recreation Consultant.

A Landscape Architect in the State Planning

ioard spends the greater part of his time prepar-
ing plans for parks and recreation areas for muni—
cipalities. This is a free service.

There are five recreation leaders in the Agri-
cultural Extension Service, at least one of whom
is giving full time to recreation.

Wyoming

At least one worker in the Agricultural Exten-
sion Service is giving some time to recreation,
though not full time.

The University of Wyoming gives some assist-
ance through the Physical Education Department,
especially where former students are heading com-
munity recreation programs.

292

  
 
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
 
   

Recreation Flying Center

By L. E. H. PETERSEN
Forest Hills, N. Y.

MANY FLYERS who have returned from air ser-
vice during the war find that they want to
keep on flying. Certainly each of the many “air-i
borne” veterans cannot establish his own base or
airport and yet he wants to continue Hying as a
leisure-time hobby.

Serving such a group as this is the Queens Sea-
plane Base, a recreational flying center on the East
River in W'hitestone, L. 1., New York.

Under the G.I. Bill of Rights, veterans may
take flying courses at no cost. Others may come
for training, or for short and long distance practice
or pleasure Hights. Youthful flyers, some in their
teens, are even including flight training in their
educational curriculum.

From the Queens Seaplane Base vacationists are
flown to out-of—the-way lakes in Canada and Maine
for fishing and camping, and are picked up again
at a pre—determined date, thus saving time in travel
and extending the vacation at the recreation
grounds. By special arrangements, if vacationists
are fiyers, planes may be flown by them.

The base was opened in May 1945 by a pilot
who served with the Air Transport Command
during the war. He had selected the location on
one of his flying trips and the transformation of
the wasteland area into a modern and bustling sea-
plane base as it stands today required the plan—
ning and work of about two years.

The aircraft at the base includes five Piper
Cubs, J-3s on Edo floats and a Republic Seabee
Amphibian. One hangar takes care of seven light
planes and one amphibian, while a new hangar
accommodates twelve to fourteen amphibians.

Base planes sometimes substitute for trains,
taking passengers to the Midtown Skyport at 23rd
Street and the East River. While the planes are
synchronized with the rush, the pulsing heartbeat
of New York City, the rate of speed can de dimin—
ished by the pilot until it is in tempo with the more
leisurely pace of pleasure flights.

There is year-round Hying at the base and planes
are available seven days a week. On clear days the
base is open until sundown. Ample opportunity is
offered to air-minded men, women, boys and girls,
whether they want to make a Hight or learn to fiy.
Thus, Queens Seaplane Base takes its place with
other neighborhood bases and airports which are
meeting the need for air facilities, education and
recreation.

RECREATIO

 

Harvest Festival

 

NE OF THE ADVANTAGES in planning to in-

O clude a harvest program in your season’s

program is that you can have it almost any

time between August I and December I. You can

adapt it to your own use, using as a theme, the

true harvest, back-to-school, the beginning of fall,
Halloween or Thanksgiving.

For all of these types of autumn programs and
parties the idea will be frost on the pumpkin, the
challenge of the coming winter months, spicy food
and the beautiful colors of the fall foliage. .The tra-
ditional harvest festival is one of thanksgiving for
the gathered products of the earth. It is also the
time of carnival and gladness for the relaxation
from the long hours of summer toil and anticipa-
tion of long winter days before the lire.

These suggestions for a harvest party, a formal
program or a combination of the two may be car-
ried out effectively with very little work. The plan-
ning, rehearsals, committees all can be a part- of
the regular program and because no one seems to
be doing anything “extra” there will be fewer
tired nerves to mar the fun.

Harvest Party

Invitations. Print invitations on bright colored
paper, with designs stamped with potato blocks,
or cut out simple harvest designs on contrasting
paper and paste them on the invitations. Even if
the party is for everyone, invitations add a warmth
and welcome to the people who might not other—
wise come. Postage is usually a good investment
in publicity and good will.

For this particular party admission consists of
the presentation of some item of the harvest at the
door. Anything is acceptable: eggs, bread, jar of
homemade jam, sack of potatoes, bushel of wheat
or any other item which might be a harvest prod—
uct. If you need money the produce can be resold
at the festival, or if you do not need the money it
can be given to some worthy organization, prefer-
ably of local interest.

Decorations. Decorations are fun. The best ones
are those gathered in the surrounding countryside
by organized picnic committees. Naturally, you
will consult the proper authorities so you will not

SEPTEMBER 1947

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

destroy valuable shrubbery. In a large hall, a few

.hig branches of autumn leaves will show to better

advantage than a great many small bouquets. Corn
stalks and yellow pumpkins are just fine. Perhaps
someone in the community is beginning to peer
through ivy-covered windows and would appre-
ciate a “good trimming.” Vines can be used for
all types of decorations and are comfortably lire-
proof. If it can be avoided, do not borrow decora-
tions. Small boys have a way of falling into treas»
ured flower pots and no amount of worry on the
part of the director will appease the ire of the
reluctant donor.

Let's Begin. So that the party may begin as soon
as the first guest arrives, the entire hall should
have a party atmosphere. Well-known “ice break-
ers” can be used to good advantage so that there
will be no waiting for a good time to be had by all.

The welcoming committee will be very busy col«
lecting the gifts and arranging them on tables for

293

display. Perhaps a few pe0ple should do nothing
but arrange the tables and see that there is some
artistry and attractiveness in the arrangement.

Another committee away from the door may
present the ladies with tiny corsages, made of
autumn leaves and tied with autumn colored rib—
bons. If a door prize is to be given, make this a
masculine prize. The numbers may be printed on
pumpkin-shaped bits of yellow paper and clipped
to each man’s Coat lapel with a stapler.

Centers of interest in the hall may include:

Pin the stem on the pumpkin—the old donkey
game dressed for the harvest festival.

A dart game (carefully blocked off to avoid ac-
cidents)—the object being to hit the hole in a
doughnut cut from brown paper. The prize, of
course, is a real doughnut. This same game is lots
of fun if watermelons are plentiful. Draw a slice
of watermelon and the object of the dart game is
to hit the seeds. These may be few or many ac-
cording to the supply of watermelon you have on
hand for prizes.

Coffee bean bag throwing contest—the winner
receives a steaming cup of coffee or cocoa.

Pumpkin carving contest—provide the contest-
ants with a small pumpkin, a knife and plenty of
newspaper for the debris.

Things to guess are fun: the weight of a coco-
nut, the number of grains of corn in a jar, the
number of pennies in a piggy bank, the contents
of an unlabeled tin can.

If you are lucky enough to have a fireplace, pro-
vide the necessary equipment for popcorn popping
and toasting marshmallows. Soft music in this
corner will be appreciated.

The Main Event. Sell the produce by auction!
This is a show in! itself and lots more fun than the
bake sale with prices on every item. Get a profes-
sional auctioneer to donate his services or find an
amateur who is a good talker and who is popular
with the people. You will be surprised how much
fun there is in selling Mrs. Day’s coconut cake or
a dozen large brown eggs. Whether you make a
few dollars or hundreds, people will go away
from the auction laughing.

Begin this part of the program with a short sing,
fifteen minutes at the most. Include well—known
harvest songs and at least one specialty number.
Use song sheets or song slides.

Songs of Harvest

If your group would prefer a performance to a
party, why not select a few songs that you have
learned to sing during the summer, combine them
with some dances, also a product of summer fun,

294

add someone in the group who can tell a story, giv
meaning to the simplest words, and a harvest pro
gram is almost ready for performance.

Production Hints. Such a program can be use
as a full evening performance, using a choru
dancers, and narrator with a staged show. The sam
type of performance might be presented out 0
doors with little or no stage equipment or it migh
be used as an assembly program for chorus an
narrator, or even as a radio program for narrato
and chorus, quartet or soloist. ’

Singers’ costumes should be simple and suitabl
to a rural setting. The dancers may be dressed t
illustrate their particular dance or to add color t
the production.

Assistants are needed to help with the curtain
and special lighting effects you may wish to use.

A suggested one-week rehearsal schedule might
be as follows:

1. Meet each group alone (singers, dancers,|
stage assistants, narrator), so that they may
learn exactly what is expected of them on!
stage.

2. One rehearsal of narrator, accompanist and
stage assistants. '

3. One rehearsal for chorus and dancers. Nar-
rator and stage assistants watching and fol—ll
lowing script.

4. Dress rehearsal for everyone.

The songs and dances in the program are only
appropriate suggestions. Other songs which pro-l
perly suit the story will do just as well as the ones'
printed here. The suggested music (except. “Threel
Little Maids,” by Marjorie Elliott) is selectedl
from the following song collections: Songs T/Ve
Sing, Hall and McCreary Co., Chicago, 111.; Thel
N cw American Song Book, Hall and McCreary
Co.; Singing America, National Recreation Asso-l
ciation, New York, N. Y.; and M nsic Highways
and Byways, Silver Burdett and Co., New York,|
N. Y.

The length of the performance is approximately

50 minutes.
SCENE

Simple out-of-doors

TUUE

Evening. Moon hanging low in the sky. (A moon-shaped hole
cut in a large cardboard box which contains an electric
light. Cover the hole with orange-colored gelatin paper.)
Lights rather low, if possible a mixture of blue and
red. If you are using a rheostat, bring the lights up
bright for each special number and then lower them
before closing the curtain.

SONG
Old MacDonald Had a Farm by children’s chorus in front
of stage. The group may be divided, each part singing

RECREATION

  
    

p ASTIC WOOD is used by many Arts and Crafts
teachers as the ideal, low-cost modeling medium. No

a between—class preparation is necessary. No special
tools are required. Plastic Wood encourages student
interest in modeling because of its intriguing possi-
bilities, amazing results and permanence. Use Plastic
Wood Solvent for softening and finishing.

FREE SAMPLE! If you would like to try PLASTIC WOOD
in your classroom just write—on your school stationery—40
BOYLE—MIDWAY Inc., 22 E. 40th St, New York 16, NY.

Life-like cowboys and ponies
typify fine modeling results
with Plastic Wood. These are
the work of Lynn Gammill,

Dallas, Texas.

 
  

     
   
 

Simply twistwire into rough Tax;
form (armature)

for support. Then

 
 
 

build up the 
model with 
Plastic Wood. 

Handles like putty...ledInl Into wood...

When it’s modeled in PLASTIC WOOD. . . it's PEPMANENT!

W. Earl Bothwell, Inc.

 

SEPTEMBER 1947 295

the part of a different animal. If the children have
made animal masks this is a good time to use them.

NARRATOR

Down on the farm there’s singin’ and laughin’

And sweet smells in the kitchen,

Kittles bubblin’ and splashin’.

Soap is foaming in deep tubs

And the night is clear and frosty.

It’s harvest time—the. summer is over,

Early morning rising—heavy loads,

The plop of hot, juicy fruit falling into cans,

The rich smell of late suppers,

Everyone hungry and tired,

Drinking deep cool water,

Falling asleep and the paper still unread.

All along the valley burdens have fallen,

The summer’s work is done.

Even old Mother Nature seems to relax

And delay the cold winter

For a few warm days and mellow nights

To be enjoyed by those who have been too busy all summer

To notice and admire the beauty of the earth.

(Curtain opens slowly. The chorus stands in tableau until
music introduction begins, then moves in place to sing,
at all times keeping the grouping informal.)

The over-ripe moon hangs wide and yellow,

Touched by a cloud.

The first stars glimmer on the men and women who made
the harvest bountiful.

SONGS
Bendemeer’s Stream and Soarwood Mountain

NARRATOR

There is nothing like a good tune

When the crowd is gathering.

Singing is fun and everyone joins in.

\Vhat’s this? Some folks holding hands?

(Members of chorus who are not square dancers move
quietly toward exits.)

And there is old Jim Folks who can call

So that even the old folks want to skip and dance.

(Fiddlers take their place on the stage. If they are not
actually to play, they may pretend to and use anipli-
fied records Off-stage.)

The iiddles are singing——

Fellows and gals—~everybody dance!

(Music begins and dancers take their places for square
dance. After dance curtain close.)

NARRATOR
Harvest time, another year gone by
And for the winter coming soon
A store of food and warmth
The promise of a spring to follow
In peace —-—
And yet how rich the earth—how young the country.
Sitting on the edge of the crowd
In the mild shelter of the house,
The old men remember their fathers
Who grew tired of the softness of the land they conquered
And looked beyond the misty blue of the mountains
Toward the prairie vastness.

(Curtain open at beginning of introduction for —)

SONG
Verdant Meadows

296

NARRATOR

There are younger men who dreamed beyond the sea,
Of nights like this——-and harvest time,

The trees bend low with gentle winds

Like a sigh of remembrance of homelands.

hlUSIC

The Old Refrain Chorus hums melody during reading of:

“Fair hills and valleys of my native home,

Tonight I dream again of tliee alone;

Of sunlit peaks that touch the bluest skies,
Tonight I’m dreaming while the firelight dies
Then from the curling smoke that seems my world
There rise to thrill me memories of old

Broad fields of grain appear and forests tall,

Cool rippling sands beneath a waterfall.

My native land of mountain lakes aglow,

Of rushing winds, to thee in heart I go,

Tho’ this strange voice within that calls thy name
Finds silent answer in the sinking flame.” *

(Men of chorus exit.)

NARRATOR

The night could not be so gay,

The moon so bright,

And all girls so pretty

In their bright crisp dresses——

But that many a young man should think of love
And maybe choose a wife!

SONG
Three Little Maids (by Marjorie Elliott, published by Ray-

nlond Hoffman, Chicago, Ill.)

(The women in the chorus may sing this clever little song
and it may be pantomimed by three women and a man.
Very easy and effective.)

NARRATOR
There is a fair in town

And a few young men are late.

In the ears of at least one young woman
Whirls the song of the dancers,

In her eyes the sparkling ferris wheel,
As she remembers a whispered promise.

SONG
Oh Dear, W hat Can the Matter Be

(Curtain close.)

. NARRATOR
Men who work with their hands have time to think
To feel the pain of life,
To dream the 'deepest dreams of tired slumber,
To know the earth in all her moods,
To fight the storm and face sharp rain—
And walk willingly through soft snow.
Out of the toil, the suffering, the longing, the bitter tears,
Through hope, kindness, awareness of returning sun and
noonday rest,
Comes song,
The heritage of the encircled world of sorrow and gentle
happiness.
From the northland sounds the echo of wind and the river.

I

(Curtain open on introduction of —)

SONG
Come, Good Wind
‘1

*Lyric by Catherine Quimby from “Fair Hills and Valleys" in

Songs We Sing.

. . RECREATION

l
i

1
1I

 

" ilson basketball has what it takes to give your
yers the right “feel” of the ball. It meets 'the
= ting finger grip test of actual play. For per-
t balance—for sharp passes and dribbles_for

e rebound it’s a Wilson!
.' nd that goes whether it’s aWilson LAST-BILT

a CJO. Both are big time—champions in
el,” playability and ruggedness.

   
    
    
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
   

WILSON SPORTING 60005 CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
{A Wilson&Co. Inc. subsidiary)

ion “Official” LAST-BILT Construction—Per-
tly round. Precisely balanced. True rebound.
o rdead” spots. Finest top-grain cowhide.

on “Official” CJo—L'aceless. Perfect bal-
c" Finest top-grain cowhide. Double-lined for
I ngth and durability. Lock-stitch construction.

w.2

lDAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

;, ea
|

_' COUChGS! . . . snow

YOUR SQUAD THESE NEw
I i “OFFICIAL” MOVIES

 

 
 
  

Films
co-sponsored

and
General'Mills

NARRATOR
The friendliness of European song and dance rings every-

where to a whistled tune and tapping feet.

SONG
Walking at Night

DANCE
H0pak or any polka. (See Highways and Byways for ex-

cellent directions.)

NARRATOR
Cowboys on lonely prairies, with no one to sing to but the

unresponsive cattle,
Thought of the stories they could tell,
And 'when they found some one to listen ——

Well, the song was likely to go on and on,
But we have picked a few verses of The Old Chisholm Trail.

50m:  ' I   ’0

I First Choic

The Old Chisholm Trail ,
 £very Spar
Lord, I W ant to Be a Christian
NARRATOR :  Available
A Prayer, , - _  Thru Leading

A prayer for courage, for faith,

For day to day goodness. Athletic 600d

And sometimes the music fairly bursts ‘ ' ' 5 __  Distributors
Into a happy shout that conquers every fear. . - '  ‘

SON C
Mary and Martha

DANCE
Latin American rhythm (See Singing America)

 

NARRATOR
Laughing eyes of deepest brown,

Toes that dance‘and tap as though circled with bells, ‘
And suddenly the glow of a warm heart 1947 N- Y. Stale SIX-Man FOOibCIll

And song as tender as a summer night.   

SONG
. . . will appear only in the SIX-MAN FOOTBALL MAGAZINE.
Clehto Lmdo An offense that scored 4'77 points in 1946 explained

NARRATOR with diagrams and pictures.

All along the valley burdens have fallen, '

The summer’s work is done,

The first stars glimmer on the men and women
Who made the harvest bountiful.

And they were thankful—
(Music begins, chorus humming)

“For the beauty of the earth, 2 Issues—Fall 1947——Spring 1948
For the beauty of the skies, (Canada and foreign $1.50)

F th 1 h' h f b' h
or e ove W 10 Kim our m Semi Check or Money Order to
Over and around us lies,
SING ' .C. I. O'CONNOR

Lord of all to Thee we raise The 3073' Latin School
This our hymn of grateful praisef’ 1015 Brevard Street. Baltimore 1. Md.

Curtain close.

News Items About America's Fastest
Growing Game in the

SIX-MAN FOOTBALL MAGAZINE

Subscription $1

 

 

Challenge to Schools

HE AVERAGE AGE of a juvenile delinquent is now 21, while some months ago it was 18, and a year 1
ago age I 7.—] . Edgar Hoover, FBI.
Attorney General Tom Clark, quoting this statement, adds, “What we really need are greater
recreation facilities. The schools of our nation should be open after classes for young people’s activities."

298 RECREATION I

Mini? ' f  I
atmmw

 HIllERIIZII{HIRAIJSBYIZ‘J
(o

HILLERIGH 8:" BRADSBY 00., |N0., LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

 

Stateside Recreation Atmosphere for

By ARTHUR MAYER
Special Assistant
American Red Cross

RMY OF OCCUPATION soldiers, in spite of some
A reports to the contrary, are not entirely pre—
occupied with affairs of the heart. Nor do
they as a group speculate on the black market. In
spite of a less hazardous occupation, the individual
soldier is as lonely as the,combat G.I.——the most
homesick soldier the world ever saw. Living under
far easier conditions, he is far less at ease. His
temptations are greater and his morale is lower.
The prevailing high rate of venereal disease, gam-
bling, psychoneurotic disorders and violent acci-
dents, indicate personal and social problems that
cannot be solved solely by the accepted Army
medium of lectures, educational movies, billboards
or severe disciplinary measures. Perhaps these
boys are not fully aware of their mission nor con—
scious of its great import to the world of the
future. What they need more than anything else
is mature guidance, understanding, and a semblance
of the home life from which they have been taken
prematurely and without adequate preparation.

In the effort to orient them to
their new and uncongenial sur—
roundings, and to strengthen them
for responsibilities. the American
Red Cross recreation centers
present a significant front. In
their own peculiar and inarticu-
late fashion, the new draftees as
well as the re-enlisted soldiers,
value and appreciate not only the
comforts and the recreation the
centers afford, but the less tangi-
ble human values they extend.
“It’s the only place in Nuremberg
where an enlisted man ain’t just a
dog tag,” one (3.1. told me

During recent months I visited
58 of the 105 recreation facilities
the Red Cross operates in Ger-
many and Austria, and 15 of the
23 still operated in Italy. With a
few exceptions, the atmosphere of

300

 

Occupation Forces

hospitality, the facilities and the programming,
above all the morale of the women who staff them,
have improved enormously in the two years that
have elapsed since I saw them under war condi-
tions. In this small field at least, peace and progress
seem to be synonymous.

On some posts, living and working conditions
are still reminiscent of those combat days. At one
replacement center—what the boys call a “repple
depple”———the clubrooms were not only bitterly cold
but inadequately furnished. In this case the girls’
billets were almost bare, but the girls assigned
there were too busy to fret about niceties they
knew back home. The supervisor who accom-
panied me said to a red-faced, watery-eyed-young
woman from Paterson, New Jersey, “We’ll see that
you get some suitable furniture for your room.”

“Oh, if you can send anything,” she answered,
“let the club have it. That’s where we need it
the most.”

That I believe is the spirit of the Red Cross
workers of 1947.

Skiing near Garmische. Germany

 

American Red Cross photo by Waller

RECREATION

 

i

l

That is the fundamental reason why the recrea—
tion centers are performing so fine a job in Europe
today—that, rather than improved supplies and
peacetime facilities. Every commanding officer I
saw attested to their value. It is indicated by a
weekly attendance in November in the European
theater of 610,000 and in the Mediterranean of
200,000: This attendance varies enormously from
large offpost clubs such as the Burger Brau in
Munich with 6,000 daily to small onpost installa—
tions such as Ludwigsburg with only 200. Many
officers; however, like General Harmon, head "of
the constabulary, believe that the small onpost clubs
are even more valuable to the men than the larger
offpost installations. Anything that tends to keep
the soldiers contented and suitably occupied on
their base, away from the allurements of the large
towns, in their opinion, is a service to Army morale

and G.I. morality.

Locations

The clubs are located in former barracks, muse-
ums, restaurants, court houses, castles, theaters,
breweries, schools, inns, stables, department stores.
They vary from the superbly equipped homes of
ex-Nazi industrialists to the unheated huts in the
wild mountains north of Trieste.

Veterans of two wars will be shocked to hear
that the Red Cross no longer concentrates on
donuts and coffee. In all clubs and recreation
centers, small as well as large, snack bars operated
by the Army PX have been installed. Sodas, sun—
daes, sandwiches, hamburgers and hot dogs are
sold at reasonable prices to hungry G.I.’s.

Red Cross girls now concentrate on planning
and conducting interesting club programs, some of
an elevating and others—at least to a participant
of my age—of an enervating nature. Nightly, there
are classes in German and Italian, spelling bees,
bull sessions on world affairs, game parties, photo—
graphic instruction classes, and billiard tourna-
ments. During the week there are tours to points
of historic or scenic interest, and brunches on Sun-
day morning. There are art classes, drama groups
and expeditions on horseback. In most clubs,
clothes can be pressed and mended free of charge,
shoes shined, films developed, cameras repaired,
parcels wrapped and checked.

Some of the more elaborate offpost installations
have swimming pools, skating rinks, gymnasiums,
bowling alleys or miniature golf courses. Practically
every club has a game room with pool and ping—
pong tables, a writing room, a library, music rooms

SEPTEMBER 1947

for classical records as well as jazz, a dark room
for developing films, and an arts and crafts shop.
Probably the most popular of all club activities
are the dances held from one to seven times a
week. American and carefully selected DP girls

act as hostesses at these affairs.

“Community-wide”

The large offpost installations—clubs such as
those, for instance, at Stuttgart, Garmische, Bad
Nauheim, Mannheim and Wiesbaden—have ad-
vanced far beyond their original aim of service to
the armed forces. They have become the recrea—
tional centers and the hub of all social activities in
the communities where they function. Their facili—
ties have been extended to the civilian employees
of the government departments and to their wives
and children.

To a considerable degree, Army bases in Ger-
many resemble military posts at home. They are,
however, also islands of America isolated in a for—
eign sea. We must seek to maintain in them the
essential values of our national life and the ideals
on. which they are predicated. Many young de—
pendent wives are as perplexed and ill-adjusted in
their new surroundings as are their men folk.
They have no roots in the alien soil to which they
have been transplanted.

The Red Cross, in an effort to provide a con-
structive program for their leisure time, has turned
over to them the use of its club facilities for any
purposes, social or educational, that they may desig-
nate. Language lessons, nursery schools, social
gatherings, and children’s craft activities are par—
ticularly popular. In addition, both at the sugges-
tion of dependents and of the military, it has
sought to furnish a useful outlet for their energies
by enrolling and training them as volunteers.
Among the chairmen are Mrs. Lucius Clay and
Mrs. Mark Clark. Although the organization is
still in its infancy, by November I approximately
1,000 women had joined and are now serving in
about 50 percent of the recreation centers and
hospitals. They act as hostesses at parties, serve at
information desks, teach a dozen different sub—
jects. Some just sit in the clubrooms and talk to
lonely boys as they look admiringly at their snap—
shots of loved ones back home.

Now that the war is over, there are other clubs
for enlisted men in Europe besides those operated
by the Red Cross. Far and away the most promis-
ing are the 62 established by Special Services in
Germany and Austria. An army, by its nature,
allows for less flexibility, less freedom for inde—
pendent action, and less rapid adjustment in local

301

requirements than a civilian.organization. More-
over, the freedom from any suggestion of Army
discipline and regulation that pervades a good Red
Cross recreation center gives it a potent psycho-
logical advantage over any military installation,
however well conducted. Nonetheless, under the
competent and energetic leadership of General
Bolling, head of Special Services in the European
Theater, Army Hostess Clubs, as they are called,

are rapidly increasing in efficiency and prestige.
Red Cross welcomes their growth as a wholesome
indication of the Army’s continuing interest in the
welfare and morale of its enlisted men. Between
the two organizations, civilian and military, there
can be no rivalry but only competition—that
friendly, fruitful competition which flowers in
better service and wider horizons for the boys who
represent us abroad.

George E. Dickie

Outstanding Recreation Man Appointed Federal Recreation Leader

 

N AUGUST 25, 1947 George E. Dickie of
New York City begins his service as secre-

tary of the Federal Inter—Agency Committee

on Recreation with headquarters at Washington,
D. C. Among the leaders in this committee are the
Hon. J. A. Krug, Dr. M. L. Wilson, Dr. John W.
Studebaker, L. F. Watts, Albert Day, Katharine
F. Lenroot, Conrad L. Wirth, Charles W. Kinney.
Mr. Dickie has been secretary of the American
Economic Foundation and in charge of radio pro-
grams. He was the first director of the National
Recreation School which trained many of the out—
standing leaders active in recreation. He was the

302

first director of municipal recreation in Oakland,
California, with such men as Dr. Jay B. Nash and
George J. Hjelte on his staff of two hundred
workers. He gave courses in recreation at the Uni-
versity of California.

During the first World War he served as mana-
ger of the field department of War Camp Commu-
nity Service. Later he was advisor on parks and
recreation to Mayor Walker’s Committee on Plan
and Survey in New York City.

He was chairman of the Committee on Recrea-
tion in Industry of President Coolidge’s Outdoor
Recreation Conference; member of the Committee
on Leadership Training, White House Conference
on Child Health and Protection, 1930; chairman
of the Committee on Recreation and Physical Edu-
cation Outside of School, White House Confer-
ence on Child Health and Protection, 1930.

For several years he worked on recreation mat-
ters in connection with such organizations as the
American Legion, American Federation of Labor,
American Institute of Park Executives. He also
worked in close cooperation with the U. S. Army
and Navy, Federal Departments of Agriculture,
Interior and Labor, Amateur Athletic Union, Na-
tiOnal Amateur Athletic Federation and many
other national groups.

Mr. Dickie has attended many of the Recreation
Congresses and has given leadership to many rec-
reation projects. '

In order that the work of the Federal Inter-
Agency Committee on Recreation may be more
effective, the Extension Service of the United
States Department of Agriculture has appointed
Harold W. Lathrop, formerly State Superintend-
ent of Parks in Minnesota, to a part-time position
to work on recreation in the open country and in
small communities.

RECREATION

 

AT LAST :1
IT FEELS

RIG H'I'!     .   .

t’s about time someone built a rubber-covered football
that not only has the traditional waterproof and wearing
qualities . . . but a football that feels right.

Our technical staff has labored over this problem for 15
years, seeking to produce the conventional “feel” to which
you are accustomed without sacrificing the durability for

which we are famous. Well, we’ve done it!

The improved CF9 with the distinctive new reddish brown cover
wears right, PLAYS RIGHT, and  RIGHT.

We give you the greatest improvement in football since the flying
wedge . . . The New Voit CF9.

_I_'F_-_*."|_ . _ _. _ _ _-='-._.

y/%/e(/& 5W”sz

1600 E9 ZSTH STREET, LOS ANGELES 11 o 180 N. WACKER DRIVE, CHICAGO 6

SEPTEMBER 1947

 

World at Play

SECRETARY of the
Interior Julius A.
Krug signed an
order on June 20 establishing 710 square
miles in south Florida as the Everglades N a-
tional Park. The Secretary’s action followed
his acceptance from the Governor of Florida
of a check for $2,000,000 appropriated by the
state for park land acquisition. In 1934 Presi-
dent Roosevelt had signed an act which pro-
vided that the park “shall be permanently
preserved as a wilderness,” and no develop-
ments are to be undertaken “which will in-
terfere with the preservation intact of the
unique flora and fauna and the essential
primitive natural conditions now prevailing
in the area.”

 

Everglade Wilderness

THE first Man-
hattan Recrea-
tion Institute was
held April 28 to
May 2, 1947, in the auditorium of the commu-
nity building in Manhattan, Kansas. The pur-
pose of the institute was “to give aid to surround-
ing communities in their recreation problems, to
give leadership training to those individuals want-
ing recreation aids and techniques of leadership, to
give concrete expression to the problem of selling
recreation and to provide a clearer understanding
of a cooperative plan of school, city and recreation
commission in a community recreation program.”
Eighty-nine pe0ple registered for the institute and
each of the schools, churches and service clubs in
the community had representatives at each session.

For a Better Under-
standing

THIRTY buses carried
1,400 youngsters from
13 Bethlehem, Penn-
sylvania, city playgrounds to the Philadelphia zoo.
The city’s recreation department sponsored the
excursion and buses were provided through sub—
scriptions of funds from private individuals, lodges,
trade unions and Bethlehem merchants. The super-
intendent of recreation supervised the trip with the
assistance of 33 playgroundnsupervisors and lead-
ers and 32 parents and other individuals who vol-
unteered. State troopers in radio cruisers and
American Red Cross workers in a station wagon

All Went to the Zoo

304

 

Hz'rz-Graf Studios !
equipped with a mobile unit for emergency first
aid also escorted the caravan of children and adults I

going to the zoo. .
|

LAST Halloween, one
of the interesting play-
ground celebrations I
was held in San Francisco by the Chinese Play-
ground Thunderbird Boys’ Club. Five hundred
children came to see Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs presented in_ Chinese. The boys also of-
fered dance numbers and skits and the audience 
joined in a community sing. During the intermis- r
sion, the old witch of the play appeared with her
horses, cats and other animal friends to supervise -l
the drawing of numbers for door prizes.

Memories of Halloween

I
Saucers in the Skies FLYING auceirs were I

very v131ble 1n Syla-
cauga, Alabama, in 1
July. An airplane flew over the town and dropped II.
a number of mimeographed circulars publicizing .
the Flying Saucers Dance held in the city recrea- "I
tion building. The auditorium was decorated with t

RECREATION i

PORTER 7m-Smed p.

PLAYGROUN"

BASKETBALL
BACKSTOP

 

UGGEDLY constructed for extra heavy duty out of

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

, .
doors, here is a unit that wins instant approval on won t TWISt
every playground. The new Porter all-steel fan-shaped won}; Sa
bank is formed from a single sheet of 11-gauge steel * g
with a 1V2-inch flange. won”:
Solid steel braces are arc-welded on— Buikle
end to the rear face of the bank, to the All Steel
continuous flange, to each other, and to *
the four attachment plates, unifying the Arc welded
assembly. This bank will not buckle. *
The goal is all—steel andelectric- ,; ~ Sturdily
welded, and will maintain a perfect circle E A c H i  graced
in perfect alignment with the bank. .  *
Equipped with “No-Tie” Net Holders, OTTFASAB"ILL A  Unified
and a twine net. ' °  I; Assembly
Complete including ‘  - - *
Goal and Net; Ship-  i R'g'd Goal
ping ng., 200 lbs.   u *1“ ”
REAR VIEW - ; NgTIJfler

Bank and goal are mounted on a 3V-
inch diameter steel pipe upright by
means of specially engineered cross-

i
arms that prevent sag. Ingeniously x. 
designed friction clamps safeguard :‘ I
against twisting. A thoroughly depend- ' .
able rigid installation. Meets all ofiicial _, " -
requirements. Finished to withstand " ,a .

the weather.

AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY—RUSH YOUR ORDER

THE 1. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

  

MANUFACTURERS OF' PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

_—l_'I_I-I_I-'-I_I-

WRITE FOR PORTER’S COMPLETE RECREATION CATALOG
SWINGS o SEE-SAWS o SLIDES o MERRY-GO-ROUND o COMBINATIONS - WORLD FAMOUS “IUNGLEGYM” CLIMBING STRUCTURES

 

SEPTEMBER 1947 30‘;

stars, a moon and saucers of a winged variety.
During the dance, the lights were turned out, spot-
lights turned toward the ceiling and paper plates
went sailing into the air as dancers tried to catch
the “gold” saucer to win a prize.

The Woman’s Touch—The Junior League
of Amarillo, Texas, believes in action. Sponsoring
a summer program of recreation for the children
of Amarillo, the ladies of the League went to the
City Commission to ask permission to hire a rec-
reation director. The director was hired and the
ladies are paying the bills—probably amounting to
about $10,000—for their program. The Junior
League has also played a principal role in the or-
ganization of the Amarillo Recreation Council.

San Francisco Proposes Master Plan for
Youth—On July 31, 1946 the Mayor of San Fran-
cisco signed a local ordinance calling for the pre-
paration of a comprehensive master plan for youth
to be prepared by a representative group of citi-
zens to be appointed by the Mayor. The report of
the Committee after careful studies were completed
made a number of specific recommendations for
action including several relating to recreation.

The committee recommended, among other
things, the submission of a bond issue at the
earliest time possible for $I2,000,000 needed to
carry out the $13,126,000 postwar deve10p1nent
program of the recreation department; that the
recreation department be consulted by the school
department in all plans for the construction of new
school buildings; that the school department make
available to the recreation department all school
indoor and outdoor athletic facilities when not in
use by the school department; and that the park
department develop additional park area for use by
the recreation department.

Playground in the Homer—A model playroom
that enables youngsters to play with toys at con-
venient levels off the floor and climb or slide on a
two—way staircase was exhibited by the American
Toy Institute in New York. The miniature ‘play-
ground was planned in an average room area of
twelve by eighteen feet and features interesting
wall colors, fiat, rounded shapes instead of orna-
mentation and sharp corners, surfaces for tacking
0r writing, opportunity for motion and space to
Spread toys. An added attraction is the door of
the plywood frame surrounding the supports of
the desk. This door, although leading nowhere, en-
ables small fry to imagine a mysterious exit or an
exciting cave. There are many other features in

306

0‘

this room to delight the child and the parents. It
is the first in a series of projects planned by the
Institute to increase the play opportunities of
American children.

Labor Donates to Recreation —— All of the
labor, building material and equipment necessary
to develop a play area of four acres are being
donated by the Building Trades of Bloomington,
Indiana, as its contribution to the recreation facili-
ties and program in the city. The area will contain
three hard surfaced tennis courts, two softball dia-
monds, a children’s play area, horseshoe courts, a
picnic area and a combination shelter, storage and '
and concession building. The area will be de-
veloped and landscaped with no cost to the city.

American Education Week—The twenty-
seventh observance of American Education Week
has been set for November 9-I5; the theme——
Planning Now. Topics for the individual days
are: Securing the Peace, Meeting the Emergency
in Education, Building America’s Future, Strength-
ening the Teaching Profession, Supporting Ade-
quate Education, Enriching Home and Commu-
nity Life, Promoting Health and Safety. The pro-
gram for Friday, November I4, Enriching Home
and Community Life, includes plans to arouse
group action in support of recreation, housing,
libraries and other community needs. Recreation
leaders in many communities will want to cooper-
ate actively with educational authorities in Ameri—
can Education Week, particularly on the Com-
munity Life program. Wholehearted cooperation
can do much to strengthen local understanding and
support of both education and recreation activities.

Railroad Flower Show—Once again, Penn-
sylvania Railroad employees are holding their an-
nual September Fall Flower Show in the Philadel-
phia railroad station. Approximately 1,800 em-
ployees are members of the garden club which
sponsors this event. Other activities of the club in-
clude illustrated lecture's during the winter and
garden tours during the spring and summer.

Designed for Collegiates—The 20—30 Club of
Wilmette, Illinois, caters to the college age and
“too old for high school” groups. Sponsored by
the Wilmette Playground and Recreation Depart-
ment, the 20-30 group operates throughout the
North Shore area, holding dances and social func-
tions at the Wilmette Field House, the Masonic
Temple, and the Winnetka Community House.

RECREATION

 

DEMOCRACY WILL BE
SAVED IN OUR SCHOOLS

Make your school outstanding as an experience in

“happy, profitable working-together”

Give your students and teachers these helps

 

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS—Current thought of leaders
in the field of democratic group activities.

SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES—An assembly program for
each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic
productions.

.CLASS ORGAN IZATION S—Directions for the success—

ful guidance of school groups.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES—Suggestions for financing
student functions.

ATHLETICS—News and ideas on late developments in
intramural and interscholastic sports.

DEBATE—Both sides of the current high school debate
question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS—Instructions and aids in the
directing of school clubs of all types.

HOME ROOMS—Ideas and plans for educative home
room projects. ~

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating
loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATION S—Guidz‘nce in the produc-
tion of school newspaper and yearbook.

PARTIES AND BAN QUETS—Suggestions for educa-
tive and wholesome social activities.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT—Sound direction in the
development of student sense of responsibility.

MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commence-
ment, point systems, etc.

Each month “School Activities” will bring you timely material by

1515 LANE STREET

SEPTEMBER 1947

authorities in these Iields.

Subscription price $2.50

Subscribe Now!

School Activities

TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

307

With Hoe and Broom—“Come Help Clean
Up” was the invitation extended to residents of
the Eastwood Park area in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
While i2 5 adults used the tools, rakes, brooms and
other cleaning equipment they had brought, their
children played on swings, see-saws and in sand
boxes and occasionally helped with the work. The
“work day” session ended with a free wiener roast
and soft drinks donated by the Eastwood Park
Board. The cleanup was just the first phase of a
long range program to make the park an outstand-
ing recreation area.

School of the Arts—Swimming, music, art,
drama, dancing and other skills were subjects
taught in the Summer School of the Arts spon-
sored by the Whittier, California, recreation de-
partment. The School was open six weeks and
high school, junior high and a few tifth and sixth
grade students who attended were allowed a maxi-
mum of 136 hours of instruction. Students were
required to pay' a registration fee of three dollars
for three days and six dollars for six days. Instru-
ments and art materials were provided by the
Summer School.

Books Received

 

An Introduction to Magic, by Sherman Ripley. Sentinel
Books, New York. $.60

Canadian Football, by John F. Edwards. The Copp Clark
Co. Ltd., Toronto, Canada. $2.75

Chess in an Hour, by Frank J. Marshall. Sentinel Books,
New York. $ .60

Communitas, 'by Percival and Paul Goodman. University
of Chicago Press, Chicago, 111. $6.00

Creative Handicrafts, by Mabel Raegh Hutchins. Sen-
tinel Books, New York. $.60

Discover the Stars, by Gaylord Johnson. Sentinel Books,
New York. $.60

How Smart Are You? by Fred Menaker. 'Sentinel Books,
New York. $.60

Hunting with the Microscope, by Gaylord Johnson. Sen-
tinel Books, New York. $.60

Music for Everybody, by Sigmund Spaeth. Sentinel
Books, New York. $.60

Photography for Fun, by William M. Strong. Sentinel
Books, New York. $.60

The Life of the Party, by Fred Menaker and Franklin
Folsom. Sentinel Books, New York. $.60

The Nature Lover’s Knapsach, edited by Edwin O. Grover.
Thomas Y. 'Crowell, New York. $3.00

Why Not Paint a Watercolor? by Frank Stearn. Sentinel
Books, New York. $.60

308

 

Prominent California recreation leaders lool: on as Governor
Warren signs the bill creating a state recreation commission
in California.

California Recreation
Commission

HE CALIFORNIA Recreation Commission, under
the law creating it, is to aid and encourage pub-
lic recreation activties; to report annually to the
Governor on the needs of the state and the local
subdivisions thereof for recreation facilities, pro—

grams and activities; to assist in the coordination
and development of recreation programs provided
that surveys of the recreation facilities and pro-
grams of local agencies be made only upon their
request.

Governor Warren in his message to the Cali-
fornia Legislature at the opening of the session
had recommended that a resolution be passed to
establish a State Recreation Commission.

The Director of Recreation to be appointed may
encourage and render assistance in the promotion
of training programs for volunteer and professional
recreation leaders in cooperation with other agen-
cies ; may encourage the establishment of stand-
ards for recreation personnel.

The sum appropriated. is $79,000—to cover a
nine-month period. '

Immediately on receiving word that the bill had
been passed and that Governor Warren would sign
it a postcard news bulletin giving the good news
was sent out to the field by the National Recrea-

tion Association.

RECREATION

Nathan D. Bill Dies

ATHAN D. BILL, known as “the father of the

Springfield (Mass) playground system,”

died, at his home in Springfield on July 11, 1947
at the age of 91.

As a civic leader Mr. Bill was influential in the
development of Springfield. One of his particular
interests was recreation, and he became the city’s
foremost advocate of more and better playgrounds,
especially in the congested sections of the city. In
1912 «he made the city a gift of six acres which
became a playground named in honor of his wife’s
father and during the same year he gave the city
four more acres for another playground. During
recent years he gave an additional area comprising
55,000 square feet adjoining the playground, to be
added to the original area.

In 1916, acting as executor of his father’s will,
he deeded to the city some property for develop-
ment as a park and arboretum. To this he, his
sister and brother gave additional property and
funds to carry out the development.

Another important contribution to the city’s
playground system was made in 1922 when he
gave the city a tract of land which was large
enough to provide for many facilities such as base-
ball diamonds, tennis courts and equipment for the
use of smaller children. He also gave the city part
of the land needed for a municipal golf course and
aided in the development of the Memorial Munici-
pal Golf Course. The annual golfing tournament at
this latter area‘is known as the Nathan D. Bill
Memorial Tournament. With four other men he
gave West Palm Beach, Florida, its municipal golf
course.

Nathan D. Bill served for 29 years as chairman
of the Springfield Board of Park Commissioners
and for 30 years was president of the City Library
Association.

The present Springfield City Library, its six
branches and four museums were constructed while
he was president of the Library Association.

During his years on the Park Board he not only
interested himself actively in the development of
existing park systems to make possible greater en—
joyment of them by the public, but made liberal
personal contributions of land and funds to extend
the park and playground areas.

Mr. Bill contributed to the National Recreation
Association for twenty—seven years and was always
a loyal supporter of the Association.

The recreation movement has lost a great friend
and advocate through the death of Nathan D. Bill.

SEPTEMBER 1947

. f
_ (Us
“I

3...
g - . -:.
.  a}... l
, l 3‘..- m ‘..,‘ r
.j. , . _
a ,- ‘.-  I
E‘ r (
n
,

‘16

-n every 'Tcld at ‘ipor‘ 'n Profes-
SIG"!!! Semi-Promo Ama'eur Base-
ball and Softball. '0' UNIVEYSHLCS,
Coileqes and High Schools. m Mu-
nicipal and irdustria'l Recreation.
MacGreqor-Gofdsmnh. Sports
Equipmerf 's reocgnizad as a hall-
mark of qualify and unvarymg ‘
performance. '-

 mfzzqez   

"I "1 p I u o I ‘0‘ a p I g I l col-Mucu-
WW' ClelNNK-‘I'l l4. 01110.". S. A. -

TWO WAY BOWLING ALLEY

23 FEET OF BOWLING THRILLS!

PERFECT

' GAME

FOR FUN.

EXERCISE
AND

PLEASURE

0 NEW! Two Way Bowling Alleys afford continu-
ous play. No pin boys required, no installation

costs.

0 SENSATIONAL! Two Way Bowling Alleys are
superbly built to last a lifetime yet cost only a
fraction of regulation alleys.

0 DIFFERENT! Two Way Bowling Alleys are
portable.

Write for illustrated literature and prices

 

 

I Permission Peter Arno
© The New Yorker
Magazine. Inc.

0 Station Scene, 1957. Find the man who is getting a
L . steady income from U. 5. Savings Bonds. He was

smart enough to start buying, back in 1947.

Of all the ways of saving up a tidy sum of but you do have a checking account, through

money, one of the easiest and safest ways the Bond-a-Month Plan at your local bank.
is to invest your money in U. S. Bonds. Both ways repay you $4 for every 333 you

You can buy Bonds either through the Pay- save, by the time your Bonds mature. Choose
roll Savings Plan at your place of business— the sum you can afford—and start saving

or if the Payroll Plan is not available to you, today!

Save the e_g_sy, automatic way
— with U. 5. Savings Bonds

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

310 RECREATION

 

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of ?
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

MAGAZIN ES

Parks and Recreation, July 1947

Aquatic Cavalcade, Lt. Comdr. Vincent DeP. Far:

rell, U‘SN R
The Maintenance Mart, Exterior Painting on Wood

Hygeia, July 1947

Keeping Little Convalescents Happy, Louise Price
Bell

Parents" Magazine, August 1947

Encourage the Artist in Your Child, Dorothy Tilden
Stpoerl ,

A Giving Party, Corinne Weil Mattuck

Give a Music Fair for Children, Grace Fisher Ram-
sey and Hazel Lockwood Muller

Children’s Religion, August 1947
Every Child Can Create, Estelle Barnes Clapp

Beach and Pool, July 1947

Swimming T oday—Recreation, Exercise, Self-Preser-
vation, Adolph Kiefer
Synchronized Swimming in Pageantry, Ellen Murphy

Temperature Control in Outdoor Pools
Fear of Water, Jack. E. Hewitt

Basic Principles of Pool Design, Construction,
Operation, Part IV

Parents’ Magazine, September 1947
Things 3 Child Can Make and Do, Rhoda W. Bac-

meister
Youth Serves the Community, Mary Dabney

PAM PH LETS

Official Aquatics Guide (for Women) 1947-1949

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, N. Y.
35 cents

Staff Guide, Park Playgrounds

Minlleapolis_Board of Park Commissioners, Recrea-
t10n'D1v1510n, 325 City Hall, Minneapolis, Minne—
sota -

Bibliography of Books for Children, 1947 Edition

Association for Childhood Education, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, NW, Washington 6, D. C. 75 cents

PlcroRIAL PUBLICITY
or YoUR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

EFFECTIVE O ECONOMICAL O PROFITABLE

PICTURE POST CARDS

SUUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos

W rite For Free Folder “R”
ARTVUE POST CARD COMPANY

225 Fifth Avenue _New York 10. N. Y.

 

SEPTEMBER 1947

 

  
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
  
  
   

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
0

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

  

SBIIJ/OI'
The PBDEEEDINBS

of the

ANNUAL CONVENTION
St. Louis' Mo., April, I946

American Association for Health,
Physical Education and
Recreation

Condensations of division meetings, work-
shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

Price $|.00
Order from the Amociation Office

|20| SIXTEENTH STREETI NW
WASHINGTON 6, D. C.

 

311

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

0'
America's Needs and Resources
By J. Frederic Dewhurst and Associates. The Twentieth

Century Fund, New York, N. Y. $5.00.

HIS STUDY of America’s economic and social resources

and possibilities was initiated in 1943 with the esti-
mates of the future based on the assumption that the war
would end in 1945 with IGermany’s defeat coming before
that of Japan. If the other assumptions of the study on
the future potential of Arnerica are anywhere near as
valid, this country has the opportunity for a future of
so many more homes, greater income, more employment,
increased leisure and more opportunities for culture and
education as to insure a standard of living never before
approached in this country or any other. The study re-
views trends and projects, possible developments and
achievements into 1950 and 1960. Practically all phases of
our economic and social life are covered. The chapter on
recreation is the one which holds special interest for rec-
reation workers but the entire volume is of value in that
it presents the complete picture from which recreation
cannot be completely isolated. It is a volume with which
every recreation worker should be familiar. It provides
many of the bench marks essential to intelligent planning

The chapter on recreation considers only those recrea-
tion activities whose economic signiiicance can be meas-
ured in terms of their use or consumption of goods and
services. It does not include, as so many other discussions
of the costs of recreation do, vacation and pleasure travel
or sports clothing. Hobbies are included. Past estimates
of recreation expenditures have varied from two billion
to more than twenty billion dollars depending on the
author’s interpretation of what is recreation. A helpful
discussion of the reasons for recreation and the true sig-
nificance of the many statistics presented make the ma-
terial more readily understandable and useful. Facts
about government expenditure for recreation are kept
separate from non-governmental figures throughout so
that those particularly interested in public recreation can
study and analyze them.

It is impossible in a brief review to include even a
sampling of the many facts and figures included in this
report. The final conclusion in the recreation field is that
recreation expenditures in 1950 and 1960 in terms of 1940
prices will probably be $4,697,000,000 in 1950 and $6,630,-
000,000 in 1960. Of the two amounts $262,000,000 a'nd
$295,000,000 will be government expenditures. These com-
pare with actual comparable expenditures in 1940 of
$203,000,000. Needed expenditures if accepted standards
are met would of course exceed these figures. They are
estimated to be about $385,000,000 for 1950 and $415,000,-
000 for 1960. Eighty-five million dollars of these estimated
needed government expenditures are for capital expendi-
tures in each case. Estimated needed expenditures for
non—urban facilities of $186,000,000 each for 1950 and 1960
are not included in the above hgures.

Recreation is included in the discussions of other phases
of the study such as urban redevelopment, transportation,
health. The report is comprehensive, and so far as recreation
is concerned reasonably conservative. It will probably be
well-thumbed by recreation workers for some time to come.

312

Juvenile Delinquency—Practical

Prevention

By Ben Solomon. Youth Service, Inc., Peekskill, New
York. $1.50.

IMMEDIATE AND AGGRESSIVE action to prevent juvenile de-

linquency is the thesis of this booklet. The author dis-
cusses various contributing causes of delinquency and the
influence for good or bad of the home and family, com-
mercial recreation, the neighborhood and playmates and
friends. He discusses also the relationship to the preven-
tion of delinquency of recreation, education, the church,
police authorities, juvenile courts, and welfare agencies,
and what they can and cannot do to meet the problem.
The discussions are focussed on what the author terms
the “vulnerables”—those children and youth whose own
weaknesses of character and personality make them more
susceptible to bad inHuences than the large majority of
young people.

In the chapter on recreation great emphasis is placed
on the fact that the anti-social “vulnerables” cannot be
helped by organized recreation programs because they
will not take part in their activities. On the other hand it
points out that recreation can help. The optimism of the
latter part of this chapter is not easy to reconcile with
the pessimism of the early paragraphs.

The author is definite in his recommended actions, per-
haps a little too authoritative. He feels that all preventive
work should be under the authority of a single govern-
ment agency. The booklet brings together a great deal of
material stimulating to read although one may not accept
all of it without question.

 

 

Oflicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice—President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH. Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. _

MRS. ARTIIUR G. CUMMER, Jack-sonvrlle, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. .Y.

OTTO T. MALLERT, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARI. E. MILLIEEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, WoodburK} N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York. N. ' . .
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

1L. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

‘REDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

RECREATIO

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON

Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Blount County, Ala.
Sept. 15-19

Barbour County, Ala.

Sept. 22-26

Amarillo, Texas
Nov. 3-7

Borger, Texas
Nov. 10-14

Fort Worth, Texas
Nov. 17-21
Maryland

Oct. 20-24

Maryland
Nov. 3-7

Maryland
Nov. 17-21

N. Charleston, S. C.

Sept. 8-12

Des Moines, Iowa
Sept. 15-19

Charlotte‘sville, Va.
Oct. 6-10

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

Oct. 20—24

St. Louis, Mo.
Nov. 10-21

Jefferson City, Mo.
Nov. 24-28

Mobile, Alabama
Sept. 29-Oct. 10

Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

Oct. 20-24
Chattanooga, Tenn.
Nov. 10-21
Charlottesville, Va.
Oct. 6-10

Galesburg, Illinois
Nov. 10-28

September, October. November I947

G. S. Weaver, Supt. of Schools, Oneonta
P. A. McDaniel, Supt. of Schools, Clayton
G. S. Odell, 1100 Harrison Street

G. K. Vaughn, Supt. of Recreation

R. D. Evans, Supt. of Recreation

Miss Ethel Sammis, State Dept. of Education,
Baltimore, Md.

Mrs. Paul Pridgen, North Charleston
Baptist Church

Miss Kathryn Krieg, Supt. of Recreation

' Mrs. Imogene M. Bunn, 800 Anderson Street

Rockwood Jenkins, Lincoln Center
A. H. Wyman, Park and Playground Association,

613 Locust Street
B. C. Porter, Director of Parks and Recreation

R. A. Nebrig, Supt. of Recreation
Rockwood Jenkins, Lincoln Center

Miss Ruth Hale Bird, Supt. of Recreation

Mrs. Imogene M. Bunn, 800 Anderson Street

W. W. Jackson, Carver Community Center

Looking Under the
Human Hood

“EFE has taught me that adults, like children,

want to be doing something. Men wear out
when idle, just as machines do. Idleness will run
down a battery and finally ruin it. Tires will de-
preciate in a storeroom quicker than when in use.
Lay your car up for a few months and it will be
worse off than if you had run it constantly. That
same thing" happens to a workman. Everynman is
happier when he is working his full hours and when
he feels he is earning his pay. Anyone who tells you
that men prefer the dog’s life of loafing to the real
life of going after something and getting it done

does not know men.”

—Henry Ford
The Rotarian, January 1947

 

