"s

- ECEATIN

January 1947

 

RECREATION

.- in you/marry I947

 

Editorial, by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . 513
Morning Star, by NIillard Lampell . . . . . . 515
Attention Recreation Workers . . . . . . . . . . 517

Fourteen and Under, by Charlie Vettiner 518‘ -'

Flying School, by Burt L. Anderson. . . . . 519
Gustavus Town Kirby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 529
A New-Old Game. . . .  ............... . . 521
At Your Service . . . . . . .    . . .  . 522* 
Appointment at the Rink.   ...... .. 5234: .‘

Discover Your Neighbors !_by Brown 525

Fiestas in Kansas City, by L..l)ougherty. 527

Preschoolers, by Betty Barry . . . . . . . . . .35 528
What They Say About Recreation .... .. 529
Willow Whistles. . . . .f.._ . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 530 

For Young AdUItS, by Alfredi‘c- Rogers- 532: Sixty“ Years of Neighborhood Centers. . . 563

Festival, by Oka T._ Hester. . ., . . . . . . . . . . 

W

e.

Renaissance in St. Louis, by J. A. Turner 538

Folk Camp, by Jane Farwell . . . . . . . . . . . 540
Inter-Civic Club Recreation I
amboree, by Louis E. Means . . . . . .. 542
World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 545
Conference Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
American Recreation Society . . . . . . . . . .. 553
Tips och—Toe SkatingaAreas. .  . . . L‘. t . . . . 554
Samuel L. Sinedley . . . . . . . . . .   556
{Shelby M. Harrison to Retire. .... ..l ‘. . 558

The Recreationist, byz'Walter L, Stone.. 558

A Recreation Club for the Aged . . . . . . .. 560
The Local 4-H Club Leader ..... ..'. . . .. 560
The Spell- of Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561

State Recreation News Notes . . . . . t . . . . . 562

New Publications . .v . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568

 

' |

! I

“A

RECREATION is published monthly by and in the interests of the National Recreation Association formerly named Play— 
ground and Recreation Association of America, is on nle in public libraries, and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Entered
as second-class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post O$ce at New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Accept-
ance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1 103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.
Copyright 1947. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. SJL.

VOLUME FORTY. NUMBER TEN

«one

i

ONiY TEEES

The three white birch growing outward as from one root ,—a where
all the children liked to stand to have their pictures taken.

The great oal< near which the children dug their underground cave
playhouse and rooted it over. '

 

The oak at the corner —: at first misshapen, ungainly, in twenty
years become a model of strength and symmetry.

The twin pepperidge shoots nose high .—a now in twenty-two years
high as the house r—l most distinctive of trees, the bare branches as
beautiful in the winter as the fully clothed trees in the summer.

The forty-tree pepperidge grove where years ago the little creek
used to How through the corner of the lots.

The sassalras grove, the trees trimmed as if they were palms to
carry the spirit of the Far East.

The forty white dogwood i—: a dream in the spring, banqueting
hundreds of birds in the {all ;—: I have seen them grow from a few inches
until now they are a grove by themselves.

The scattered clusters of evergreen trees r—I pines, white and Austrian,
spruce, cedar r—-I giving color through the winter.

The swamp maples that one watches for the coming of glorious color

in the fall.

The three American elms r—f planted with my own hands, planted for
the third and fourth generations r—l now with promise of what they are to
be. Will our children’s grandchildren stand under them to enjoy the

sunsets 7

The beach plums transplanted from the ocean dunes.
l Bayberry in great bushes springing up here and there everywhere.

.3 Carpets of wintergreen with red berries.

Hummingbirds, goldfinches, orioles, bluebirds, blue jays, Wrens,
chickadees, bobwhites, whippoorwills, robins, and many other birds .— we
all share these trees. The changing light upon them makes them ever

changing, ever different.

They are only trees, but they add immeasurably to the early morning.
the late evening, the noontide, the moonlit hours Fa and give thickness

and richness to living. g
, By this tree that friend stood, by that tree the little girl lilfed ‘l'l
to play. Into the doghouse under the spruce the neighbor s little girl, \ 

taking her dolls with her, still likes to crawl.

Double is the joy in a tree that is shared.
The trees are rich in past and present and future memories.

The spirit of life and of living is within you as you move in and
out among the trees, or no grounds, nor buildings, nor set times, nor set
places can give it to you.

Beauty and strength are there, beyond the power of eyes to see, in
the trees that grow around the village home.

W06 «GAMM

  
 

514

A 3». Man.»

 

 

. v...-

 

3 g 1251“. Lam 3&1.“ng

U. S. Forest Service Photo

RECREATION‘;

Morning Star

«4 By MILLARD LAMPELL

    
   

;. EARLY IN NOVEMBER, the New York Herald Tribune held its annual forum. The forum theme was “The

99

I
I.

‘ l
n
r

Struggle for Justice as a World Force. Millard Lampell set that theme in the mold of a dramatic

poem which was presented by Robert Montgomery with choral responses. Mr. Lampell has given us

permission to reprint Morning Star in RECREATION.

'3

NARRATOR WOMAN .,
In the-beginning there was darkness, Can you hear me, my lost one,
And men lived by no light but the torch of revenge; Whose name no man knows;
And the long night went on, Where the seasons move slowly over your grave,
Silent as an old man dying, And the new grass grows?

And no,end to the darkness.
In the ruined town, the torn fields,

i When the morning star finally came, The sound of guns from the sea;
i' No one believed it. You went to die for the bright dream,

 There was a rumour that someone had seen Justice coming That men are born free;

down from the mountains, slowly, bleeding from a

You are covered b s rin rain
— thousand wounds; Y P g o

. And winds of November,
‘ But, of course, it was only a rumour,

- . . nd the uiet earth has to Gotten 01 r n me
. No one believed 1t. A q 1's o Y I a .

But I remember.

I

CHORUS
I CHORUS
l

t f t' ' ,
S at O Jus 106' mommg Star In the green fields, the green fields,

Burnin in the skieS'
g ’ Peasant and serf, saw a star;

All the orphans of the world,

T . . 1 They were men of England and they saw a star!
urn to see it rise. '

This is the dream, the bright dream, gunman]:
Older than the sea.

By this Magna Carta no freeman shall be taken, or impris-
The morning star, the same star

oned, or outlawed, or banished, or anyways'destroyed:

That rose on Galilee. nor will we pass upon him except by lawful judgment

0n the mountain, the mountain, of his equals.

I The carpenter saw a star, CHORUS

His name was Jesus and he saw a star!
' They locked the serf

' ll -
NARRATOR Behind stone wa 3,

And the earth wept softly in its prison Cell.
Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should

do to you, do ye even so to them.
trout?

CHORUS Can you hear me, my lost one?

They nailed his hands, Who spoke for all men?

And they pierced his side, The night is long, but the morning star

And the earth turned slowly on its crucifix. 31585 388!"-

IANUARY 1947

CHORUS NARRATOR

. . May it please the court;
In the quiet room, the qu1et room,

The Virginia farmer saw the star;
His name was Jefferson and he saw the star!

The privilege of opening the first trial in history for:
crimes against the peace of the world imposes a grave!
responsibility. The common sense of mankind demands‘

that law shall not stop with the punishment of petty}

NARRATOR crimes by little people. It must also reach men whof
Freedom Of religion’ freedom 0f the Press; freedom 0f possess themselves of great power and make deliberate!
person under the promotion 0f habeas corpus; and trial and concerted use of it to set in motion evils which

by juries impartially selected—these principles form leave no home in the world untouched.

the bright constellation which has guided our steps.
CHORUS

In Nurnberg town, in Nurnberg town.

CHORUS . . . . .
J ustlce 1s wa1t1ng 1n Nurnberg town. . . .

They twisted his words,
And laughed at the sound,
And the earth,stood silent and all alone.

NA RRATOR

These defendants were nien of a station and rank that does;
not soil its hands with blood. They were men who knew!

WOMAN how to use lesser folks as tools. What makes the inquestt

significant is that these leaders represent sinister influ-

9
can you hear me’ my IOSt one ' ences that will lurk in the world long after their bodies 4

I 9
W ho SpOke for all men' have returned to dust. They are living symbols of racial I

hatreds, of terrorism and violence, and of the arrogance ‘

CHORUS and cruelty of power.

In the courthouse, the courthouse, CHORUS

The Kansas preacher saw the star; _
In Nurnberg town, 1n Nurnberg town,

His name was John Brown and he saw the star: _ _ . _
The morn1ng star r1ses 1n Nurnberg town.

NARRA TOR WOMAN

Can you hear me, my lost one,

I bel1eve that to Interfere 1n behalf of God 3 despised poor, Whose name no man knows;

I d1d no wrong. Now, if 1t 13 deemed necessary that I Where the seasons move Slowly over your grave,

should forfelt my hfe for the furtherance of Justlce, and And the new grass grows?

mingle my blood with the blood of my children and with

the blood of millions in this slave country whose rights NARRATOR
are disregarded by wicked, cruel and unjust enactments, The morning Star bums brighter now!
I say, let it be done_ r And still we grope in the shattered darkness,
And the sunlight of brotherhood awaits us;
CHORUS Each generation creates justice in its own image,
They took him to the gallows, And the dawn lies buried within us,
And they Sprung the trap, The new world awaits our courage!
And the earth swung gently on its hanging rope. CHORUS .
Star of Justice, morning star, ‘
WOMAN

Burning in the skies;
- Can you hear me, my lost one? All the orphans of the world,

Turn to see it rise!

CHORUS Exiles and wanderers,

In Nurnberg town, in Nurnberg town, BIOken’ lonely men’

The judges are waiting in Nurnberg town; Tum to see the morning Star’ 
The haunted women, the haunted men, And 01d hopes rise again; 
Whipped and tortured and whipped again; The bright hope, the bright dream
And the tired ghosts of the young who went, Older than the sea,

To bleed out their lives on the continent; That a star will rise on a new world,

The judges are waiting in Nurnberg town! That men will rise and be free!

516 _ ' RECREATION‘

 

new leaf every January I, it’s not a bad idea to pause and take a look to see where you and your

' STOCK-TAKING TIME is here again. Whether or not you believe it smart to turn over that dog-cared
recreation program are heading. Here are a few pertinent questions to start your self-analysis.

Do all the children of school age in your community have the chance to take part in many kinds
of activities whose interest will carry over into adult life?

Are you making maximum use of all the community’s recreation activities and facilities by relat-
ing your program to those of other agencies?

Are all the pe0ple in the community thoroughly aware of activities that can be carried on in
their own backyards or basements or playrooms?

Are the boys and girls in your community among the lucky 5 percent who have access to some
kind of camping experience?

Is your program too heavily weighted on the side of physical activities or are there time and
leadership and facilities for reading and music, arts and crafts, dancing anddramatics and nature study?

Have you worked out a plan for cooperating with school authorities to your mutual benefit; do
you “bring the community to the school ?”

Are all the children in your community learning how to make the'best use of the community’s
recreation resources?

Do all the people in your town, of every age and creed and race, have the facilities, leadership,
Opportunity for creative recreation 12 months a year?

Is everyone in your community getting help and encouragement in finding or developing a hobby?

Does your program make it possible for everybody in the community to find ultimate satisfaction
in recreation through personal achievement?

Do you supply for adults the challenge to develop powers otherwise not used?

Do all people in your town have the chance to participate as citizens in the c00perative building
{ of a better way of leisure for all?

Have you worked out with other agencies in your community some form of recreation calendar
.which is at once a means of clearing dates and of giving information about forthcoming events to every-

body in the community?

JANUARY 1947 517

Fourteen and Under

EFFERSON COUNTY’S recrea-
J tion program is great be-

cause it fills the need for
recreation in rural, semi-rural
and suburban communities. It
recognizes that boys, too young
to engage in competitive high school football, never-
theless long for this phase of recreation. At the
same time‘it is noted that in order for this program
of football to attain the best results, hazards which
go with the game must be eliminated.

Ask any of the boys, ages I4 years and under,
who are participating in the football clinic pro-
gram conducted by the Jefferson County Play-
ground and Recreation Board on Saturday morn-
ings if they look forward to anything any more
than they do those Saturday recreation football
clinic sessions. Then ask the parents of these boys
if they like anything better than to have their
boys playing under the supervision of the Jeffer-
son County Playground and Recreation Board
with the football clinics as the recreation outlet.

Here’s the answer you would get from the
boys—“It’s fun to remember all throughthe week
that Saturday’s coming and with it we’ll meet our
buddies from all over our community and play
under a trained clinic leader stationed at our cen-
ter by, the Jefferson County Playground and Rec-
reation Board.” The parents will answer you thus
—“We like football clinics as recreation for three
reasons: our boys like them; the football recrea-
tion outlet is there and yet all the danger of injury
has been removed; football, as conducted in the
program of the Jefferson County Playground and
Recreation Board, is a body builder and fine rec-
reation.” '

How It Works

Now let’s get a car and make a trip to each of
the Jefferson County recreation centers to see the
recreation clinics in action. This trip takes us
over 406 square miles of country, because the
entire program of the Jefferson County Playground
and Recreation Board functions in the county. We
will stop at 20 centers, four of which cater to
Negro children. At all of these locations boys 14
years and under will be seen kicking, catching and
passing footballs. A stop at each of the recreation

518

By CHARLIE VETTINER

Supervisor ,
Jefferson County Playground and
Recreation Board
Louisvillel Kentucky

centers will be enough to con-

vince you that the football clinic

program is uniform. The boys

are doing the same at each cen-

ter according to a program set

up by the Jefferson County

Playground and Recreation Board. But the pro-

gram is arranged to provide a certain amount of

flexibility along with the uniformity. This gives

the boys something new to look forward to each

Saturday morning. Let’s take a look at the overall

picture of the program.

September 21—Passing, punting, pass catching
and punt catching.

September 28—Center passing and kickoff.

October 5—Place kicking and drop kicking. ,

October 12—Football formations and explanation
of touch football.

October 26—Passing from formation and punting
from formation.

November 2—Football strategy, offense and de- .
fense.

November g—Rules, study of fouls and review of
fundamentals.

November I6—Prepare for Jefferson County foot- I
ball contests to be held November 23.

November 23—Jefferson County-wide football
contests.

It should be noted as we scan each playground
that there is a maximum of activity but that none
of the rougher phases of the game, like tackling
and blocking, are included. By eliminating the
hazards of football the program becomes pure rec-
reation. N 0 equipment is needed by the boys other
than the footballs, which are furnished by the Jef—
ferson County Playground and Recreation Board.

Volunteers

One other thing you will note as we move about j
Jefferson County on our. clinic tour is the excep-
tionally large- number of fathers of the boys on
hand. This is one of the truly amazing develop- 1
ments which has come from the Saturday morn-J
ing recreation clinics. A program which was and
ranged so that small boys could kick a football’
about was equally attractive to their dads. It de—

veloped that many of these fathers had played foot-
(C (intimated on page 566)

RECREATION\

Flying
School

By BURT L. ANDERSON
Supervisor of Recreafion

Glendale, California

NEW ERA in flying has burst upon air-minded
America. Now it is the miniature plane.

Throughout this great land of ours young
and old are modeling, realizing a new adventure in
hobbying, experiencing for the first time the thrill
in conquering the air. '

Last year over 1,000,000 people of all ages,
countless numbers of them young people between
the ages of 7 and 17, took up model flying. Mil-
lions more were watching a thousand meets staged
around our land. This year leaders estimate that
$100,000,000 will be Spent in this newest of
hobbies.

Every age group is included in the vast number
of those'who either buy kits or attempt to con-
struct their own models. The late war, of course,
has done a great deal to further this new interest
in flying. All of the many aviation companies have
made modeling a major phase of their program.
Literally speaking, hundreds of model groups have
sprung up in every section of America. Numbers
of these are composed entirely of young people.

Here in southern California, and particularly in
and around Burbank, Glendale, and the San Fer-
nando Valley, there are many well-organized model
plane groups. Lockheed Aircraft Corporation has
been. the focal point around which many of these
clubs have been organized.

Places to Fly

The crying need today is for places to fly.
There are some cities on the West Coast which
are well equipped to handle the hordes of flying
enthusiasts, e.g., the City of San Francisco and its
Golden Gate Park flying field. Other cities are
besieged with requests, but lack sufficient space.

Burbank, California, through the efforts of the
Southern Congress of Model Aircraft Clubs and
the city parks and recreation department, is now
constructing the first all-purpose model flying field
in southern California. The parks and recreation
department and the city school system in Glendale,
California, are jointly sponsoring and supervising

lANUARY 1947

a field located at one of the junior high schools in
Glendale. A number of “meets” and “rallies” have
been held in the Griflith Park area southwest of
Burbank and Glendale. Only recently meets were
held for the first time in the famous Rose Bowl
in Pasadena and the Cabrillo Stadium in San
Diego. Although the West is ideal for year-round

flying, it has actually been very slow in realizing
the need for fields and sites.

Air Derby

Here in Glendale we have just completed our
first air derby sponsored jointly by the Exchange
Club and the parks and recreation department.
The meet was held at the Glendale High School
football stadium, with more than 100 contestants
participating—many of them boys under 16 years
of age. Over 5,000 spectators viewed with keen
interest the flying of these youthful Americans.

Of the many who were entered, one contestant
was past 50 years of age; another was 28 years
old and has been a bed patient since he was I3.
Another contestant was only seven. Each of these
three, together with the dozens of other contest-
ants, put on a show which will long be remembered.

Outstanding in every derby is the team stunt
act. In the Glendale meet four young high school
boys flew their model planes simultaneously in a
circle of 140 feet, maneuvering very difficult stunts
which brought the large crowd to its feet a num-
ber of times. For sheer thrill such a feat cannot
be found in any other sporting activity.

This meet in Glendale serves only to remind us
that in the school curriculum there should be room
for constructive study in aeronautics. No better
means can be used to educate our young people in
this subject than to begin in the field of modeling.

I am sure I speak for the many recreation peo-
ple in America when I state that we in general
are more interested in what the child does after
his school days are completed than perhaps any
other group. The values arising out of hobbies
such as model plane building and flying are beyond
comprehension. Surely this newest hobby will aid
us materially in the promotion of better citizen-
ship through this use of his leisure time. Cer-
tainly many of the problems we now face could be
substantially reduced. Further, the many carry-
over values in modeling are basically sound. Model-
ing as a hobby can grow more interesting and

fascinating for all ages. Here is an opportumty
for air—minded Americans. It is an outstanding

Gustavus

Town

A Kirby

 

related to athletics than Gustavus T. Kirby, who now retires as the Treasurer of the National Rec-
reation Association, a post he has held from 1908 to I946.

FEW PERSONS in the world during the last“ forty years have been more continuously and generally I

Mr. Kirby, as a student of Columbia University, was a leader in athletics, particularly’ in track.
He has been active in hunting, riding, tennis, golf, hiking, motoring and travel. In other words, he has

been one of the individuals enjoying recreation himself while advocating it for others and helping to
make it posible for others.

He was one of the leaders, with Luther Halsey Gulick, in the New York City Public Schools
Athletic League, serving as President. All through the years he has been active in the Intercollegiate
Association of Amateur Athletes of America, attending many of the athletic meets. He was President
of the Amateur Athletic Union and continuously active for many years. He attended the Olympic Games
and was a member of the first American Olympic Committee in I895. He has served both as President
and Treasurer of the American Olympic Committee and the American Olympic Association. He is also
President of the Olympic Athletes and a Director of the American Horse Shows Association. He has
been active in local recreation, serving during the year 1916 as Chairman of the Recreation Commission
of New York City, and has been an active leader in the New York City Park Association. In West-

chester County he has given active leadership in the County’s recreation planning, serving as Chairman
of the \Vestchester County Planning Commission.

Recently Mr. Kirby has been much in the public eye because of what he has been doing to try to
work out a home for the United Nations. He has personally conducted tours of the foreign leaders by
air, by automobile and on foot throughout Westchester County.

It was in 1908 that Mr. Kirby became a member of the Board of Directors of the National Rec-
reation Association, and also Treasurer. As Treasurer, his name has for thirty-eight years been familiar
to many contributors and members of the National Recreation Association throughout the United States.
Through all the years Mr. Kirby has been faithful in attendance at Board meetings and has never wavered
in his belief in the recreation movement. He has seen the movement grow, and the Association also. In
recognition of the service he has rendered, the Association elected Mr. Kirby Treasurer Emeritus. w

Despite his thirty-eight years of service and his activity all these years, he is still young in spirit,
full of enthusiasm, and vigorous in his leadership, and still remains optimistic as to the future. f

Mr. Kirby’s successor as Treasurer of the National Recreation Association is Adrian M. Massie,
Vice-President of the New York Trust Company.

520 RECREATION "ii

HE WHITE NILE falls,
Tso legend has it, from
the Mountains
of the Moon, twists its
grey-green length through
underground channels
and joins the Blue Nile
in its flowing out of
Abysinnia to bring, at
floodtime, a rich fertility
to the land of Egypt. So
it is today and so it has been “from a time when
the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.”
Out of a civilization based upon the wealth brought
by that annually overflowing river many things
have come down to us. For "the Pharaohs’ at least,
had time and money to make for themselves and
their “noblemen” a world of luxury. There were
time and money for art and for building the great
stone monuments to preserve their noble bodies
against the mortality of the flesh. There were
money and time for play, for the development of
new games, some of them as peaceful and relaxing
as the table games at a modern playground or rec-
reation center.
Game of Rulers
Such a game was Senet, created out of the need
for play common to the ancient Egyptian and the
ultra-modern American. Senet is the oldest known
board game. Nobody knows exactly when or how
it originated. When it first appears in the records
of history it was played with dice on a wooden
board set with squares of turquoise blue faience.
Cheops, it may be, tired out from the affairs of
state and the problems of the Great Pyramid at
Gizeh, rested his mind and refreshed his spirit
before a Senet board. It is certain that in his time
—2700 B.C.—the game was played. At that time
plain old knucklebones served as dice, but later
carved wands replaced the bones.
Tutankamen ruled some 350 years after Cheops
had been placed with proper ceremony and due

IANUARY 1947

 

Game of Pharaohs

attention to the latest knowledge of embalming
within the monument he had built himself. “King
Tut” must have been fond of the game, for two
Senet sets were found in his tomb when it was
opened in 1922-23 by the party led by Lord Car-
narvon. His board used 30 squares in three rows
of ten and his pieces were conical and spool shaped.

So much we know from wall paintings and from
the actual boards, from hieroglyphs deciphered by
Egyptologists and added to the mass of knowledge
about a way of life 5,000 years ago, from research
and exploration into ways of the past. And, there,
in all probability the matter would have rested—
as a sort of Egyptological curioso—had it not been
for a layman’s realization that here was a game
which would adapt itself with ease and pleasure to
the play needs of today.

—and of “Commoners”

Such a lay interest combined with the lore of

scholars has developed the ancient game of Pha-
raohs into a perfectly good game for today's
“commoners.” Two game inventors collaborated
with Ambrose Lansing, Curator of the Depart—
ment of Egyptology of the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, and produced a modern version of Senet.
The Senet board of today uses ten safety squares
on each side and in between a Senet row consist-

(Cantinucd on page 563’

521

Gustavus

Town

Kirby

FEW PERSONS in the world during the last forty years have been more continuously and generally ,

related to athletics than Gustavus T. Kirby, who now retires as the Treasurer of the National Rec-
reation Association, a post he has held from 1908 to 1946.

Mr. Kirby, as a student of- Columbia University, was a leader in athletics, particularly’ in track.
He has been active in hunting, riding, tennis, golf, hiking, motoring and travel. In other words, he has

been one of the individuals enjoying recreation himself while advocating it for others and helping to
make it posible for others.

He was one of the leaders, with Luther Halsey Gulick, in the New York City Public Schools
Athletic League, serving as President. All through the years he has been active in the Intercollegiate
Association of Amateur Athletes of America, attending many of the athletic meets. He was President
of the Amateur Athletic Union and continuously active for many years. He attended the Olympic Games
and was a member of the first American Olympic Committee in 1895. He has served both as President
and Treasurer of the American Olympic Committee and the American Olympic Association. He is also
President of the Olympic Athletes and a Director of the American Horse Shows Association. He has
been active in local recreation, serving during the year 1916 as Chairman of the Recreation Commission
of New York City, and has been an active leader in the New York City Park Association. In West-

chester County he has given active leadership in the County’s recreation planning, serving as Chairman
of the \Vestchester County Planning Commission.

Recently Mr. Kirby has been much in the public eye because of what he has been doing to try to

work out a home for the United Nations. He has personally conducted tours of the foreign leaders by
air, by automobile and on foot throughout Westchester County.

It was in 1908 that Mr. Kirby became a member of the Board of Directors of the National Rec-
reation Association, and also Treasurer. As Treasurer, his name has for thirty-eight years been familiar

to many contributors and members of the National Recreation Association throughout the United States.
Through all the years Mr. Kirby has been faithful in attendance at Board meetings and has never wavered
in his belief in the recreation movement. He has seen the movement grow, and the Association also. In
recognition of the service he has rendered, the Association elected Mr. Kirby Treasurer Emeritus.

Despite his thirty-eight years of service and his activity all these years, he is still young in spirit,
full of enthusiasm, and vigorous in his leadership, and still remains optimistic as to the future.

Mr. Kirby’s successor as Treasurer of the National Recreation Association is Adrian M. Massie,
Vice-President of the New York Trust Company.

520

 

r

RECREATION l

 

HE WHITE NILE falls,
Tso legend has it, from
the Mountains
of the Moon, twists its
grey—green length through
underground channels
and joins the Blue Nile
in its flowing out of
Abysinnia to bring, at
flood time, a rich fertility
to the land of Egypt. So
it is today and so it has been “from a time when
the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.”
Out of a civilization based upon the wealth brought
by that annually overflowing river many things
have come down to us. For 'the Pharaohs’ at least,
had time and money to make for themselves and
their “noblemen” a world of luxury. There were
time and money for art and for building the great
stone monuments to preserve their noble bodies
against the mortality of the flesh. There were
money and time for play, for the development of
new games, some of them as peaceful and relaxing
as the table games at a modern playground or rec-
reation center.
Game of Rulers
Such a game was Senet, created out of the need
for play common to the ancient Egyptian and the
ultra-modern American. Senet is the oldest known
board game. Nobody knows exactly when or how
it originated. When it first appears in the records
of history it was played with dice on a wooden
board set with squares of turquoise blue faience.
Cheops, it may be, tired out from the affairs of
state and the problems of the Great Pyramid at
Gizeh, rested his mind and refreshed his spirit
before a Senet board. It is certain that in his time
—-2700 B.C.—the game was played. At that time
plain old knucklebones served as dice, but later
carved wands replaced the bones.
Tutankamen ruled some 350 years after Cheops
- had been placed with proper ceremony and due

IANUARY 1947

 

Game of Pharaohs

attention to the latest knowledge of embalming
within the monument he had built himself. “King
Tut” must have been fond of the game, for two
Senet sets were found in his tomb when it was
opened in 1922-23 by the party led by Lord Car-
narvon. His board used 30 squares in three rows
of ten and his pieces were conical and spool shaped.

So much we know from wall paintings and from
the actual boards, from hieroglyphs deciphered by
Egyptologists and added to the mass of knowledge
about a way of life 5,000 years ago, from research
and exploration into ways of the past. And, there,
in all probability the matter would have rested—
as a sort of Egyptological curioso—-had it not been
for a layman’s realization that here was a game
which would adapt itself with ease and pleasure to
the play needs of today.

— and of “Commoners”

Such a lay interest combined with the lore of

scholars has developed the ancient game of Phat-
raohs into a perfectly good game for today's
“commoners.” Two game inventors collaborated
with Ambrose Lansing, Curator of the Depart-
ment of Egyptology of the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, and produced a modern version of Senet.
The Senet board of today uses ten safety squares
on each side and in between a Senet row consist-

(Continutd on page 563’

521

At Your Service

HE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION is “at your service” with a staff prepared by training and
Texperience to help recreation leaderswprofessional and volunteer—increase their efficiency and en-

rich their program. Some of these men and W0 men give leadership training courses in social recrea-
- tion, arts and crafts, nature, creative recreation, rural recreation and recreation for women and girls.

 

HELEN DAUNCEY
Katherine F. Barker Memorial Field Secretory
on Athletics and Recreation for

Women and Girls

Miss Dauncey’s institutes are
designed primarily for leaders of
activities for women and girls, but
they have proven time and again
to be of service to the whole com-
munity.

' Mrs. Livingston and Mrs.
Ehlers each after her own fashion
and each, therefore, with her own

 

RUTH GARBER EHLERS

522

special emphases, present three
courses—an 1nst1tute 1n recreatlon
activities for men and women who
have recently become recreation
workers; a co-recreation institute,
an advanced course for profes—
sional workers and mature volun-
teers; a playground leaders insti—
tute which offers suggestions for
the community use of play-
grounds. Games, activity pro—
grams, skills, practical suggestions
on ways to increase program inter-

 

ANNE LIVINGSTON

est for all ages in the community
are the matter of these courses.

Miss Walker stresses creative
recreation, those aspects of the
well rounded prOgram too often
and perforce neglected because of
lack of trained leaders. In her in-
stitutes she has demonstrated
again and again that the tech-
niques of the drama, dance, choral
speaking are not outside the use
of the average leader, can be used
in any program for its greater
richness by anyone with a general
recreation background.

Jane Farwell’s first concern is
with rural groups. Her courses are

\

 

 

 gif'Le-r

GRACE WALKER

filled with the things she has
learned and experienced and—
out of that knowledge and back-
ground—created, which add more
color and joy to living in the
country. She works with and

we. .

 

JANE FARWELL

through rural organizations whose 

leaders are interested in broad—
ening their recreation programs.

Frank Staples has taken arts
and crafts for his province. He
goes to a community armed with
trunkloads of materials and a

"RECREATION

(l

 

head full of ways to use them. He
conducts two courses—-—one for
beginning, one for more advanced
crafters. Both are designed to
teach teachers varied and richer
craft techniques.

HELEN DAUNCEY

 

RUTH EHLERS
FRANK STAPLES

Reynold Carlson offers training
for outdoor recreation leadership.
Nature is his field—nature and
the activities indoors and out that

are allied to nature or spring from
it. Field trips and nature study

ANNE LIVINGSTON

;
. . JV. ._ .
,.

FRANK STAPLES

JANE FARWELL

 

courses; camping, overnight or
day; museums and zoos and
parks; nature crafts and nature
games and gardening make up GRACE WALKER

the burden of his teaching.

JANUARY 1947

Evansville, Ind.
Jan. 13-17

Lynchburg, Va.,
Feb. 3-5

Athens, .Ga.,
Feb. 10-14

Anniston,.Ala.,
Jan. 27-31
Centre, A1a.,
Feb. 3-7
Centreville, Ala.,
Feb. 10—14
Hamilton, Ala.,
Feb. 17-21

Baton Rouge, La,
Jan. 27-31

Stephenville, Tex.,
Feb.'3-7

Waoo, Tex,
Feb. 10-14

Tulsa, Okla,
Feb. 17-21

New Orleans, La,
Jan. 6-17

San Antonio, T ex.,
Feb. 3-14

Tyler, Tex.,
Feb. 17-28

Great Falls, Mont,
Jan. 8‘17
State of Missouri,
Jan. 20-Feb.14
(Institutes will be
conducted in a
number of com-
munities)

Dayton, Ohio,
Jan. 15-31

These are the kinds of services through institutes that the
National Recreation Association can supply to any community that
wants them. If you’d like further information about the courses write
to Charles E. Reed, Manager of. the Field Department.

In the meantime you might like to know whether your own
community, or one nearby, is planning an institute in the next few
weeks. Here is a list of leadership training courses already scheduled
for January and February. If you are interested in taking part in any
one of them (and we can guarantee you, out of past experience, fun
as well as training) get in touch with the local sponsor whose name
appears in the right hand column below.

S. J. Medlicott, General Secretary,
Y.M.C.A.

Miss Martha Trippe, Y.W. C. A.,
Randolph-Macon VVoman’s Col-
lege

Mrs. Mary Soule, University of
Georgia

Rayburn Fisher, Superintendent of
Schools
F. R. Stewart, Superintendent of

Schools

F. B. Pratt, Superintendent of
Schools ’

E. W. Branyon, Superintendent of
Schools

Ralph Hi-leman, Superintendent of
Recreation

E. J. Howell, Dean, John Tarleton
Agricultural College

John Morrow, Superintendent of

Recreation
0. A. Zigler, Superintendent of

Parks

Miss Dorothy Spiker, Council of
Social Agencies

Mrs. Laura Waggoner, Community
Welfare Council of the Corn-
munity Chest

R. F. Blaisdell, Superintendent of
Parks and Recreation

Mrs. Mildred Stoltz, Montana

Farmers Union
R. S. Clou-gh, State Club Agent,
Agricultural Extension Service,

Columbia, Missouri

Clarence Thomas, Executive Di-
rector, Linden Community Center

523

Appointment
at the Rink

Volunteers insure a
skating program in a
Montclair neighborhood

there are relatively few skating days in a year,

may pose for the recreation department a prob-
lem in leadership and budget. Take, for example,
the case of Montclair, New Jersey. Skating is
usually possible there only during the coldest
months of the year and, when the ice is right,
everybody from kindergarten-age beginners right
on through adults wants to skate. The recreation
department found that it just didn't have enough
leaders to insure well-run skating areas in all the

ICE SKATING, at least in the middle latitudes where

city’s neighborhoods and for all the city’s age -

groups. There was, to be sure, an established place
that served admirably for adults and for young-
sters of the hockey-playing age and this could be
handled by regular members of the department's
staff.
The Problem

There was, however, an especially conspicuous
need for skating space in Upper Montclair which
is a section of the city almost entirely residential.
The younger children
whose parents wanted
them to begin their skat-
ing experience early were
,missing the chance to do
so. The ball diamonds of
the neighborhood park
could be turned into a
rink with relative ease
but there was no avail-
able stalf .member who
could provide the neces-
sary oversight for the
small skaters. It looked
as though the skaters of
Upper Montclair would
have to look elsewhere
for their skating fun, as
though the skaters-to-be

524

4-

would have to delay their introduction to the art.

At that point the acting director of recreation
had a'brain wave. She appealed to the P.T.A. for
help and got it. The recreation chairman of that
Association thought something could be done with
volunteer leadership. If the department (with the
cooperation of the weather man) would provide
the ice, the P.T.A. would provide the leaders. And

so it was agreed.

The Solution ,

Now, when winter comes the park department
sprays the outlields of the ball diamonds at the be-
ginning of the season and keeps the ice scraped.
The tire department does all the necessary subse-
quent spraying. The recreation department pro-
vides armbands for the volunteer leaders—arm-
bands of white duck with a red circle and skate.
Members of the P.T.A. come out each afternoon--
mothers on weekdays, fathers on Saturdays and
Sundays. The skating area is open from 2 to 6
P.M. Until 5 no hockey is allowed, and during that
time the beginners, the little youngsters, the non-
hockey players take over. Hockey time is from 5
to 6. There is no night skating.

There has been no difficulty about volunteers.
The recreation chairman for the P.T.A. has taken
entire charge of that phase of the program. She
arranges the schedule and provides substitutes if
the scheduled volunteer is unable to keep her ap-
pointment at the rink. Many of the parent-leaders

(Continued on page 554)

Wilmington, Delaware. is another community
in the middle latitudes where the recrea-
tion authorities prepare for winter sports

 

Courtesy Recreation Promotion and Service, I no, Wilmington, Delaware 1

RECREATION

    

HERE IS NOTHING unusual
Tabout our community or the

people who live in it, but we
have just discovered that we can
live together and like it. Anyone else can do the
same thing. Our experiences show that you have
something in common with your next~door neigh-
bor whether you have lived near each other two
days or 20 years, whether the neighbor is a factOry
worker or a business executive, and that both of
you would be much happier if you would take
time to find it. The common denominator we dis-
covered is not just a casual, bridge—playing ac—
quaintance, either. That might be pleasant enough
for a few evenings’ diversion but it’s not the crea—
tive, growing kind of neighborliness we have
found.

The weather first brought -us together, here in
our little rural community. Actually there are
more barriers to getting together in the country
than you find in the city. Each family, isolated by
its location, tends to be a unit in itself. It is nat-
ural for the family group to find its own pleasure
within its own circle, or to drive to the nearest
town. or city for amusement. Fortunately for us,
most of us had children too young to be left alone,
and no “sitter” was available to call in. Besides,
our farmer neighbors work until “all hours,” often
far into the night. But last winter, with the snow
several feet deep, they were not busy. One moon-
lit night we telephoned to ask if the couple next
door would go sledding with us on a hill across
the road, close enough to keep an eye on our
sleeping children. The idea sounded good. They
caught our enthusiasm and reported that another
couple would like to come too. They hadn’t gone
sledding since they were in high school. To our
surprise, the idea grew like a snowball. Some came
with large sleds. Some had oldér children, who
joined us. Someone brought a toboggan. After—
wards, we all trouped into a neighbor’s kitchen to
get warm with coffee and sandwiches.

Soon we were going at least once a week while
the snow lasted. By the time the snow melted.
something wonderful had happened to us. \Ve had

JANUARY 1947

By MARIANNE BROWN
Upper Octorara
Parkesburg, Pennsylvania

DRURY COLLEGE LIBRARY

Discover Your Neighbors!

An Adventure in Community

broken' the ice in our relations to
each other. -We no longer knew
each other just as “the Brown
family” who live on a certain
farm. We actually knew each other and a warm
glowing friendship had sprung up. We had dis-
covered neighbors we would never otherwise have

,known. Above all, we had found the thrill of new

adventure in doing things together for the pure
fun of it—right in our own backyard. \Ve were
determined to continue the fun.

Singing and Dancing

We cast around for ideas. A few of us were
musical and we knew that most people like to sing,
even though they deny it. One Saturday evening
we gathered around a neighbor’s piano. There
were few who were not tempted to join in, and
those few seemed to enjoy listening. Then, one
evening, one of the crowd came bearing a birth—
day cake, and we all joyfully helped to celebrate
her husband’s birthday. This kind of celebrating
grew. '

When we grew tired of the songs we knew,
someone invested in‘ pocket songbooks and we
unearthed a treasure—house of songs from other
countries. Some of them were singing games and
the Younger children, who had become a regular
part of our evening together, tried out the simpler
ones. Their parents joined in to help them learn
and became more interested than the children.
Soon old and young were joining in singing games
and folk dances together. It was impossible to
confine ourselves longer to the living room of the
home where we met. We moved to a convenient
barn and began to have supper together with folk
dancing afterward. Each family brought whatever
food they would have eaten at home and we put it
together without planning, preparation, or extra

work that would have spoiled the fun.
So many people wanted to come that there was

always someone to solve any problems that arose.
We needed music for our folk dances. It was not
long until we found one neighbor who played an
accordion, another who used to play the violin.

525

Springfield, Missouri

Another brought a record player and folk
dance records. We were so eager to learn
more that we arranged to have a teacher
come out from a nearby city. We were not
interested in becoming experts. We only
wanted a good time together and each eve-
ning was complete and satisfying in itself.
Everything we did was spontaneous and in—
formal.

Eating Together

We thrived on new ideas. Our breakfasts
together are great fun. They are holiday
enterprises, scheduled when the men of the

community have more time. We quickly fell'

into the habit of having the same menu with
each family bringing the same food each
time. We eat at an old-fashioned extension
table in the home that has the most space.
About I 5 of us sit down first while the others
cook and serve the meal, then the first group
waits on the second and does the dishwashing.
So smoothly and easily have we become ac—
customed to doing whatever we can best do,
that 25 or 30 of us have breakfast together
without any thought of organizing or
directing.

 

Photo by Jane Lotta, New York City

526

 

  .' i ’
Photo by Jane Lotta, New York City

We have uncovered some buried talents.
One of the men has scrambled eggs as his
specialty. Another enjoys presiding at the
pancake griddle. The people who live near-
est bring the coffee steaming hot in order
to save stove space for the pancake griddles
and the skillets of scrambled eggs. Some of
the younger girls help the little children at
the table, giving the mothers a rest from their
usual duties and an opportunity to enjoy the
meal together.

, Values

Our neighborhood parties have. no set
limits, no cliques, no organization. The
number of people participating depends upon
the kind of activity and the amount of space
we have. Nobody has cause to feel left out
because the group always varies and we are I
always breaking up into smaller groups asks
a result of the friendly, cooperative feeling ’1';
that has developed. None of us hesitates to
“call up” another family at quarter to six
any evening to suggest “Let’s put our dinner
together,” or “We’re having fried oysters

(Continued on page 565) v
\1
RECREATION

 

Fiestas in Kansas City

ANSAS CITY, Missouri,
K has a colorful Mexican
colony. Their celebra-
tions—with songs and dances
 -—-have always been of interest, not only to the
I Recreation Division of Kansas City’s Welfare De—
partment, but-to all the city itself. That others
may share in the beauty and gaiety of these festivi-
ties, the following account of them is given.
Kansas City’s Little Mexico consists of approxi—
mater 2,500 persons. The colony saw its begin-
ning in 1914 when immigrants from many parts of
Mexico came to Kansas City for various reasons—-
to flee the revolution or religious oppression or to
seek economic betterment. The people still main-
tain many of their folkways and festivities which
are gay and colorful. Many times an entire orches-
tra will be drawn from one family and this same
family will also present the ‘various national dances.
Outsiders look on with keen interest when the
whole community participates in a festival.

Music and Dancing

Because Mexico was invaded by the Spaniards
years ago, the dance and music of that country are
both Indian and Spanish in character. The violin,
flute, guitar, mandolin, cymbals, gourds, banjo,

and some percussion instruments are the types of ’

music makers used. Since Little Mexico is more
than 95 percent Catholic, many of the feasts and
festivals center around church holidays. Mexican
. Independence Day, which is September 16, is also
celebrated here. This is a gala occasion for the
community. It is the time for singing, dancing and
patriotic speeches. On this day gay senoritas and
caballeros dress in colorful Mexican and Spanish
costumes. Young girls wearing the china poblana
dress, and young men dressed in the charro suit
dance the Jarabe Tapatio'——the Mexican Hat
Dance—4m the girls may dance Las Chapanecas.
The china poblana dress is a brilliant, colored skirt
richly embroidered with sequins in designs of the
national emblem, flowers and geometric figures. A
short-sleeved white blouse with a square cut neck
is embroidered with brilliant silk or beads. Be-
neath this gay outer costume, a dainty, frilled white
petticoat is worn. Around the waist and crossing
at the back, passing over either shoulder and down.

JANUARY 1947

By LAURA DOUGHERTY
Community Service. Welfare Department

Kansas City. Missouri

the front is a green silk rebozia
(scarf). The girl usually
wears her hair in braids hang-
ing down her back with bright
ribbon or rosettes tied on the left side. The Charro
costume is a white blouse, a vest, a long-sleeved
jacket trimmed with flat braid and a pair of tight-
fitting trousers, trimmed up the side with gold
buttons and braid. A very brilliant sarape doubled
lengthwise is worn over the left shoulder. A som-
brero tops this very picturesque costume.

Couples dressed in Spanish costumes may dance
a native dance,” La Iota. Other persons will be
dressed in costumes recognizable immediately as
Indian. They dance the Jarana or perhaps the
Tehauntepec. These dances may be executed either
by a group or by a single couple. There are many
other charming folk dances danced to the enchant-
ing folk tunes and folk songs of the land of
Manana.

Other celebrations are the Saint Days of each
member of the family, meaning the day in the
Church calendar devoted to the Saint after whom
the person was named. This takes the place of the
birthday celebration. People in the neighborhood
serenade the celebrant before dawn with the beau-
tiful song, La: M ananitas. The serenaders are in»
vited into the home and are served refreshments.

Special Occasions

Each season brings its own particular festivities.
The Christmas season, beginning December 16
and lasting for nine days, is especially colorful with
its Posadas. The origin of the Posadas lies in the
gospel story of the Nativity, of Joseph’s and Mary’s
journey to Bethlehem which supposedly took nine
days. Each year a house is chosen within a family
group or among friends and at that house for nine
consecutive nights the festival is held. At the ap-
pointed hour the guests are given a lighted candle
and two by two they march inside the house chant-

ing the Litany of Loretto. The leaders of the pro-

cession carry gaily dressed figures of Joseph and
Mary. On the last night these figures are placed at
the stable scene, and at midnight the figure of the

Infant is placed in the manger.
The Pinate is another Christmas custom. It

(Continued on page 559)

527

Preschoolers

By BETTY BARRY

Women's and Girls' Supervisor
Racine' Wisconsin' Recreal'ion Department

HE RACINE RECREATION DEPARTMENT looks
Tto the recreation needs of its children well be-

fore they reach school age. The public library
gave the department the inspiration to elaborate on
its story hour and conduct a full program for the
preschool age child. The activity began as a 40-
minute story hour held in two community centers.
W hen parents were questioned, they showed much
interest in a plan to follow up the story hour with
a play period. Attendance increased when the rec-
reation department provided an instructor at the
centers to lead an hour of play. Gradually this
developed into an organized program with trained
workers conducting a morning of worthwhile ac-
tivities. The children who participate in this activity
adjust themselves to public school routine more
easily than the child who has spent the first four
or five years near home.

528

4'

Attendance ranges from 35 to 50. Two trained
and experienced field workers and two volunteer
workers are on hand every day. All mothers in
the city are invited to send their tots. When the
youngsters are registered, the mother {ills out an
entrance blank giving information concerning the
child’s background and behavior habits. Five or
six weeks after the child’s enrollment, the mother
is asked to fill out a second card stating the child’s
progress and development as it is observed at
home. Generally speaking there is good coopera—
tion between the mothers and directors of the class.

The daily program is as follows:

8:45- 9:15—Children arrive, are greeted, and chat-
ter together until all arrive

9:15—10:00—Story hour
10 :00-10 :ZO—D-rawing
10:20—10:40—Bathroom and rest period
10:40-11:15—Singing and rhythms

' 11 :15-11 :35—Free play, picture books

Holidays and Specialties

On all holidays, special parties are held. Then
the mothers are invited to attend, but during reg-
ular days they remain in the anteroom to converse
and sew or they return home to household duties.
This anteroom is equipped with a number of com—

(Continued on page 564)

RECREATION

 

)‘i

n
\-
p

.l

 

What They say About Recreation

U Love SNOW and the forms of the radiant frost.
I I love rains and winds and storm—everything
almost
Which is'nature’s and maybe
Untainted by man’s misery.”
‘ -—-P. B. Shelley

I

“W hen the war is won, we shall not ,say to the
artist, ‘Where do you come from?’ We shall ask,
‘Where do you stand?’ We shall give him free—
dom of expression, as we have always done, but
we shall ask that he adorn and preserve the demo-
cratic spirit of the new American School, where
men have stood together to produce an art for the
people.”———7‘lzomas Crown in The Story of Point—
mg.

————-

“The closer I am to nature the happier I am.
I love to be alone with the winds that come up
from the other side of the world, to be alone with
these hills, some of the oldest on our planet. I like
to feel the seasonal rhythm, to be conscious of the
rising sap in the spring, the maturing of the growth
in summer, the tonic of the autumn, the sleep of
winter.”——Robert Gibbings in Coming Down the
Wye.

—.___.--..__—.w—.__.—

“One of the things which has 'made America
great and self-reliant has been the power of doing
things for herself. Ernest Thompson Seton well
said, ‘When the Romans gave the power of doing
into the hands of their slaves, their civilization
fell.’ Today we have been following closely in the
footsteps of the Romans, for our slaves are the
machines which create most of the things we use.
Hence the need for opportunities for vocational
and avocational creative expression. . . . Handi-
craft is one of these channels.”——Ellsworth Jagger,
Curator of Education, Buffalo Museum of Science.

 

“Good recreation does not ‘just happen.’ The
spice of life requires even more careful planning
than does the provision for food, clothing and
shelter.”——-Ralph J. Ramsey.

IANUARY i947

‘-

Ring, happy bells——

“We shall not preserve our freedom by trans-
ferring to Government responsibilities and deci-
sions which we ought to be making as private citi-
zens. The fate of democracy in America is wrap-
ped up in the vigor and effectiveness of voluntary
non—Governmental associations striving to educate
the people on political subjects and stimulate them

to civic duty.”——Dr. Harold lV. Dodds, Princeton
University.

“In planning for our communities today, we
must begin where we are. Any neat and simple
pattern of uniformity of social organization is not
compatible with the diversity of the American com-

'munity. But in the very multiplicity of patterns is

evidence that democracy is present.”——Jcan and
Jess Ogden in Small Communities in Action.

“Skill to do, comes of doing.”—Emcrson.

“The desire ior better recreation approximates
a people’s movement, a strong and pressing popu-
lar effort to develop a recreational program, rooted
in the local community or neighborhood, and con-
trolled and operated by local citizens.”
—David [Murray

“The reason covered bridges were covered will
not be found in books—they were covered for the
especial pleasure of barefoot boys who played in
them in childhood and who in maturity will still
love them long after the iron bridges which re—
placed them have rusted away.”

—Georgc .-1ubrcy Hastings

 

7‘

“It becomes increasingly evident that only by a
comprehensive plan that considers the wants of
young people, that studies social and economic
situations, that evaluates the community program
in relation to increasing the participation of youth
in civic affairs, shall we find the answer to the

question of the moment, ‘How prepare for leisure ?' "
q-Bcssic A. llIcClmalmn

529

Willow 'Whis’rles

An Imaginary Reverie and a Real Program

Reverie . . .

MAN SAT AT THE DESK and frowned at the
wall calendar. March I——and what a day.
Outside, rain came down hard. Now and

then it beat at the glass, driven from its true
course as the wind blew round the corner of the
house. March 1. Rain or no rain, spring was not

far off !

The man wadded up the paper in his hand-and
threw it at the calendar. Spring! What he needed

was a new idea. He wished

something—preferably- something different, a shot

of Vitamin B for his recreation
program. Well, he wasn’t get-
ting anywhere. He guessed he
was thought out. His mind
was as clean of 'ideas as a well-
kept tennis court is clean of
grass.

He swung his chair away
from the desk and stared at the
rain. Spring! He remembered
the spring he was 12. He
thought of the first warm day
in February and the peepers
that never had the gumption
not to start their thin, sweet
chorus till the weather had
settled. Well—maybe they had
more gumption than he gave
them credit for. They seemed
to live—somehow—through all
the freezing nights. At least
there had been plenty of frogs
to hunt come summer.

He' thought about the day

that always came—the day i

when all of a sudden you knew
the need to feel a baseball in
your hand, when your legs
turned of themselves toward
the sandlot and your mother
put in a bad half hour think-
ing where she’d stored your
catcher’s mitt last fall.

He thought of hikes to the
woods, of turning the dead

530

leaves on a sunny hillside to find the fll‘St arbutus.

for.

he could think of Program . . .

 

 

There was a little creek that ran along the ravine
at the” foot of the hill. He knew, even now, that
the willows hanging over that creek were the best
in the world for making willow whistles. . . .

Willow whistles! That was it! That was what
he needed. That was the idea he’d been looking ‘
A willow whistle contest was new.
different. It was a shot of Vitamin B for a winter-
jaded recreation program.

It was

Something like this may have happened to the

Director of Recreation in Elk-
art, Indiana, on March I, 1946.
Or, it may be, he got the idea
of a willow whistle contest in
some other way. At any rate
the contest was held and held
with such success that it will
probably be repeated this year
———by request. 6

Plans began to take shape in
March. A local newspaper
added its sponsorship to the-
Recreation Department’s and
there was a stream of excell-
lent newspaper publicity which
kept the contest 'before the
community for days before the
date set for the activity.

There were 150 contestants.
A contestant, as described in.
the Elkhart Truth, was any-
one who “comes with a whistle
that really whistles and par-
ticipates in the contest” ——by
demonstrating his entry. The
oldest contestant was 87, the
youngest four. They arrived
with the others at the movie
theater where the contest was ,4
held at 9:30 in the morning.\;}
Their tickets of admission, ll
their entry blanks were their
whistles. Half an hour later
the doors were opened to any-
one interested in watching the

RECREATION

 

judging, and several hundred
citizens made up the audience.

There were six classes. The
judges were the Director of In-

' strumental Music for the City’s

schools, the Director of Recre-
ation, a teacher from the junior
high school, the Assistant Di-

rector of the Municipal Band..

They decided which whistle
had the highest note, which the
lowest, which the best tone. In
addition the whistles with the
best ornamental workmanship,
the oldest contestant and the

'youngest contestant all re—

ceived prizes. The judges took
an hour and a quarter to come
to their decision.

Interest in the event ran
high. One boy of 76 made a
dozen whistles. Left in the fur-
nace room, nine of his first
batch dried out and cracked: He
started out again for the woods
to collect more raw material
for replacements. '

Not all the “willow” whis-
tles were made of willow. A
man who had learned his
whistle-making in Kentucky
couldn’t seem to get the proper
results from ‘Hoosier willows.
So he wrote to his native state
for a supply of paw paw and
produced some outsize samples
that were very good indeed.

Since willow whistle making

in this city of 72,634 people.

was by way of becoming a lost
art, the newspaper ran an arti-
cle with pictures (reproduced
here) describing the process
step by step. The expert who
thus put his knowledge at the
disposal of the community was
captain of one of Elkhart’s tire
companies.

Process . . .

In case you yourself may
have forgotten the fine points
of the gentle art of making a
willow whistle here is a digest

JANUARY 1947

 

 

 

of the steps as explained in the
Elkhart Truth.

Pick your willow when the sap
has risen enough to reach the
very tip ends of the branches.

Select a straight twig about
as big around as your thumb

' for a medium tone. If you want

a deeper tone choose a thicker
twig——a thinner one for a
higher tone. Bud capsules, pro-
vided they are not too big,
won’t hurt your whistle. But
watch out for knots! They’ll
spoil the product.

Cut a notch in the twig at
the smaller end.

Use the broad, smooth side
of your knife and tap the twig
all over. Be gentle! You want
to loosen the bark, not break
it! Every now and then twist
the bark gently to see if it is
loose enough.

When the bark twists easily
pull it ad in one piece from the
wood beneath.

Trim a flat place between
the notch you have cut and the
end of the mouth-piece which
you have tapered off like any

other whistle.

Put the wood back inside its
bark case so that the notches
on bark and wood coincide.
Don’t jam your wood too
tightly in the shell because the
space inside the bark makes
the tone.

Now, if you have made your
whistle correctly, you can even
change its pitch by sliding your
bark shell up or down (like a
trombone) and increasing or
decreasing the size of the un-
covered space!

In Elkhart, 150 people of as-
sorted age, size and sex are
ready to testify that willow
whistles are fun—fun to make
and fun to blow. They’re al—
ready thinking about a bigger
and better contest this year.

531

For Young Adults

N ORGANIZATION has recently been formed at
A the community center in Compton, Cali-
fornia, that caters completely to the social
recreation needs for the young adult. It exists in
the form of the Community Club, an organization
set up Specifically for that group of older youth or
younger adults usually considered too difficult to
serve. Their interests and inclinations are border-
line, above the teen—age level yet not quite up to
the accepted adult stage, and consequently this
group is often omitted from the program plans and
activities.

The Community Club had its origin in the
spring of 1946 when the community center and the
then functioning USO of Compton recognized the
need for planned social recreation activities for the
many returning veterans of the community and
for the comparable number of relatively inactive
USO hostesses and other young business women
of the community. Many veterans who had been
members of teen—age organizations, upon their
return to the community, attended their former
clubs once or twice and then dropped out, com-
plaining about the youth of the present member—
ship. They did not want to go back into these
groups even though in many cases they were still
eligible to do so.

Planning for the first two recreation activities
was made in cooperation with the veterans’ groups
of the Compton College and the USO junior
hostess organization. These two events were
dances to which all veterans of the Compton Col-
lege and community were invited along with the
USO hostesses and other young ladies of the
community. The response was excellent and it
became evident that a regular program under the
direction of an organization formed especially for
this group was needed. Several of the leaders
(both men and women) were invited to the first
organization meeting at which the eligible age was
established at 19 and 20 years for girls and men
respectively. The name Community Club was
decided upon, and weekly Thursday night social
activities in the form of parties and dances were
planned. After several of such events, the acting
club council (consisting of the originally selected
key leaders) believed that enough momentum had
been reached to set up a definite organization and

532

By ALFRED C. ROGERS
DirectorI Compton (California) Community Center

did so by determining a membership fee, admis-i
sion fees for activities, a minimum of club rules
and regulations, and a meeting time for the coun—
cil and for weekly activities.

Development

All this took place in the middle of September.
A membership procedure was decided upon, ap-
lication cards and membership cards were pre—
pared and the entire plan was announced to those
in attendance at the next event and was sent out
in bulletin form to everybody on the guest and
mailing list.

The response was immediate. One hundred
fifty men and women became participating mem—
bers of the group. The council nominated candi—
dates for three offices (president, vice-president
and secretary) and for a council of seven members.
These were voted on at the next regular social
event of the club and officers and council members
were duly installed.

Immediately a membership and attendance
chairman, a publicity chairman, a snack bar chair—
man and a special activity chairman were ap—
pointed from the council membership and in-
structed to choose their committees from the gen—

eral membership. These committees have func-

tioned in carrying out their specific responsibilities
since their appointment and have presented current
reports at each council meeting.

The program of the Community Club consists
of a regular Thursday night party and dance
during which all community center facilities are
turned over for the enjoyment of the membership.
In addition to dancing, the members make use Of

_ the community center’s large game room, its lounge

and reading room and its snack bar. Committees
function to help the members and guests get ac—
quainted with others and to become part-Of the
event. Special holiday dances have been conga
ducted with great success and with the responsiblc‘g
committees in 'charge. Horseback riding parties
and other outside activities are pOpular, and there
seems to be no limit to the enthusiasm and co—
operation of the membership.

~ r

\
RECREATION

At present, the council is considering the or-
ganization of a series of current event forums and
panel discussions. In addition, a community-group-
acquaintance program has been set up whereby
each of the clubs and organizations of the commu-
nity whose members are in the eligible age range
is to be invited as guest of the Community Club
at one of the regular Thursday evening events.
These will be known as the “Junior Chamber of
Commerce night,” the “20-30 Club night,” and the
like, depending upon the name of the guest or-
ganization.

Club membership now exceeds 300 and continues
to grow steadily. The club council meets weekly
and has invited interested members to attend and
to share in its planning and service. A weekly bul-
letin, The Communique, is sent each member. It
contains reports of current council action and pro—

 

]ANUARY 1947

Photo by Philip chdrcau

gram information. In addition all members and

guests receive announcements of the many special
events.

Doing a Job

The Community Club is rapidly becoming the
spearheading youth organization of the community

center. Two younger clubs, the Teen-Agers and
the Hub Club are beginning to look to their older
friends and associates for leadership and for pro-
gram guidance and assistance. On the other hand,
the Community Club council members are rapidly
realizing their position of reSponsibility as leaders
and examples to the younger groups, and have
already assumed this responsibility through con-
sideration and active assistance.

This older group has definitely served to help
adjust the returning veteran in his 'community.

The club has given him a chance
to participate in well planned
social recreation with his friends
and his new acquaintances and he
has been made to feel very much
at ease with persons of his own
age, plane of maturity and in-
terests.

The young adults have been
given worthwhile and construct-
ive recreation opportunities, re-
sponsibility in the conduct of
their program, and the oppor-
tunity for leadership in the
younger clubs. The young peo-
ple have accepted these oppor-
tunities and have assumed this
responsibility in a way that is a
credit to themselves and to their
connnunity.

\Ve think that other communi-
ties can render great service to
their young adults through such
an organization conducting a
similar program. Certainly this
age group hasn't received the
attention that their younger
brothers and sisters have been
given, although the need in many

instances is far greater.

S33

Festival

The City of Augusta, Georgia, Backs Its Young
People in a Week of Festivities

HE AUGUSTA Recreation Depart-

ment has been working with

young people here for years and
has always been thoroughly interested in any sort
of project that would help the youngsters along
the way of growing up and becoming better citi-
zens. Never before has it attempted anything as
big and as completely successful as the Augusta
Youth Festival.

The idea was conceived by the directors of the
special service division of the department. They
planned to have an entire week of activities—La
week in which the youngsters would actually take
over the city. As time passed the idea grew into
reality and the officials found overwhelming en-
thusiasm everywhere they turned.

The boys and girls themselves would have to do
most of the work so word was spread around
about what was being planned. Several groups of
young people began to develop ideas of their own
concerning the activities. City officials were con-
sulted and full permission was obtained to pro-
ceed with the project. Merchants throughout the
' city made donations and contributions for financ—
ing the program and for making it into the elabor-
ate affair the officials had in mind. Letters went
to various out-of-town groups near Augusta ask-
ing them to participate. “Talent” was lined up
among both the Negro and the white youngsters
of the city and groups were organized, developed
and trained. It was slow and sometimes tedious
work, but the boys and girls worked hard under
the guidance of the director of the special service
division and other officials of the recreation de-
partment. Slowly the pieces of the program began
to fall into place for this very special week of
October 19—26, which was to be known as the
First Annual Augusta Youth Festival. I

Elections

One of the largest features of the program was
to be the city-county youth election, set for Octo—
ber 19, the first day of the festival. The work for
this one day began a good full month earlier as the

534

By OKA T. HESTER

Director of Recreation

officials went about the task of select-
ing candidates to run for office. A
mayor, city councilmen, and county
commissioners“ were to be elected. Applications
were printed and delivered to each school in the
county, and all boys and girls between the ages of
IO and 21 who wanted to enter the race filled out
blanks and turned them over to their teachers.
Sorting all these applications ,would have been a
tremendous job for the youth commission, but the
school teachers came to the rescue and, as they
went through the applications, made notations
about the character and the scholastic record of
each pupil; As nearly as possible the candidates
were to be selected by these qualifications and
others that go to make up a well—rounded young
person.

A committee of 40 youngsters, completely im-
partial as to the outcome of the election, met and
discussed these applications and, after about four .
hours work, selected the candidates. Five candi-
dates ran for mayor (this was the only office for
which just boys ran), 44 for the 14 councilmen,.
and I0 for five jobs as county commissioners.

City and county polls were available to the boys
and girls on election day. Regular ballots were
prepared and clerks and managers were assigned
their jobs at the polls. Every effort was made to
make the_ election exactly like the real thing in

' order to teach the boys and girls the fundamentals

of voting.

The announcement of all candidates was made
on October 5, two weeks before the actual election.
The following week these candidates began mak-
ing preparations for their respective campaigns,

.and the week before election the young politicians

campaigned at school, making the usual number
of campaign promises, appealing to their young
friends and backers for support. Each of the live
candidates for mayor was allotted five minutes of

radio time by the local stations to make his pleas
public.

RECREATION

Saturday, October 19, the first
day of the festival, dawned bright
and clear and the polls opened at
7 in the morning. Youngsters
flocked there to vote and cam-
paign for their favorites. A tabu-
lation later indicated that 3,012
votes were cast that day.

After the polls closed at 3 P.M.,
the council chamber at the City
Hall was turned over to the young
people and the tabulation of votes
began. Both radio stations had
set up equipment and were ready
to give a “word’s—eye picture” of
the election returns as they came
in. It was hectic that afternoon.
Everyone from radio announcers
and newspaper reporters to nerv—
ous candidates peered over the
shoulders of those counting the
votes.‘ 'When the last ballot had
been checked it was found that
the winner had defeated his clos—
est opponent by a slim margin of
only two votes. The new mayor,
an 18-year-old freshman at the
Junior College, won his campaign
on the simple platform of “mak-
ing no promises that cannot be
fulfilled.” After being sworn into
ofiice by 'the Mayor of Augusta, _
the boy was carried via open automobile in an
impromptu parade to Augusta’s Confederate monu-
ment on Broad Street for a celebration.

With the first and most important day of the
festival behind them, the young people of Augusta
paused Sunday to attend special religious services
in their honor at the different churches through—
out the city before plunging headlong into a £1111
week of activities.

Coronation Ball

The only event planned Monday was the elabor—
ate coronation ball that°evening in which the fes-

auditorium, which was beautifully decorated to
resemble a throne room with red draped thrones in
the center of the stage surrounded by seats of
honor for members of the royal court, six princes
and their princesses. The presentation of each
couple was heralded by four trumpeters at the

JANUARY 1947

 

C aurtuy Recreation Depa may“, Angus-ta, Ga.

Making up for the windup

door, after which the royal pair marched to their
places on the stage down an aisle formed by flags of
the United Nations. There, amidst the applause of
the audience, the young king and queen of the fes-
tival were crowned by the director of the Augusta
Recreation Department, attired for the occasion in
a formal black robe.

This ball was a colorful affair. Everyone came
in costume. The music for dancing was furnished

by an orchestra from Atlanta, Georgia. Spectators
who did not come in costume bought tickets to Sit

in the balcony and watch the festivities, and every-
one seemed to enjoy it thoroughly.

Villa gc Fair

Tuesday afternoon the largest city park in .Au-
gusta was turned over to the festival committee

for the village fair. Most of the city turned out to

535

this affair. Gaily decorated tents
and booths and exhibits made it a
truly festive occasion. A 250-
piece school band from Aiken
County, South Carolina, was one
of the main features of the fair,
playing martial music throughout
the afternoon. The local kennel
club had stirred up much interest
in its dog show. There were also
4-H Club exhibits, Girl Scout ex-
hibits, a marionette show, a Pan
American exhibit, a hillbilly show,
a doll exhibit, a flower show,~and,
of course, the inevitable hot dog
and cold drink stands.

Things moved right along that
evening with a concert given by
100 well-trained Negro singers in
the music hall of the municipal
auditorium. The chorus pre-

sented a program of beautiful music including
familiar spirituals and favorite melodies. Those
who could not attend heard this program over the

Village fair

536

i
i
i

E

 

r“ ;

Courtesy Recreation Department, Augu

sta, Ga.

 

. " M.’ ' 'i -\.
.m. .9" .~., ~ '-
-.<v y: Wax...“

Courtesy Recreation Department, Augusta, Ga.

The band plays on

air, for it was broadcast by one of
the local radio stations.

Junior Governors

Wednesday, the young city and
county officials elected the first
day of the festival really got the
feel of office. They held their own

city council meeting that evening
in the regular council chamber
with the junior mayor presiding.
This meeting was conducted in a
serious and orderly manner
worthy of a much more experi-
enced group. The gay air that
was so prominent at the other
festival activities was'absent from
this meeting as the boys and girls
got down to serious business.
Among the ordinances that
were discussed and passed by the
group were orders for a trafiic
light on a particularly busy inter-
section, for the paving and im—
provement of several streets in
town, for improvements in, the
drainage and sewage system, and

RECREATION

\

l

for the development of a recreation park around
the Clarks Hill Dam soon to be constructed on the
Savannah River. On the lighter side there was an
ordinance forbidding frowning and unhappiness in
the city for the remainder of the festival. The
educational values of this council meeting cannot
be stressed too much. The youngsters received
praise from all sides for the manner in which the
whole thing was carried off.

Thursday was one of the quietest days in the
festival from the public’s viewpoint, but the mem—
bers of the youth organization were busy with re-
hearsals, last minute costume repairs and a mil-
lion and one other things. That evening a free
movie—Coney Island, starring Betty Grable—was
shown at one of the city parks for all who wanted

to attend.

Parade (and Square Dance

3

Two out-of—town school bands were in Augusta
Friday playing concerts along Board Street. The
afternoon was gay with both bands in colorful cos-
tumes and the music playing a festive prelude pre-
paring shoppers and passers-by for the. costume
parade at siic o’clock. This parade featured both of
the out-of—town bands, our own Richmond
Academy Band, and the Army Band from the
Oliver General Hospital. There were floats galore,
the junior mayor and his council looking very ‘of-
ficial on one of them. M lss Augusta, chosen
months ago in an event sponsored by the recrea-
tion department, was on another of the floats, and
there was a beautiful Chinese float that the crowd
liked very much. The king and queen of the festi-
val looked very regal in their open carriage com—
plete with coachmen and footmen. Forty-one
young people from Columbia, South Carolina, in-
vited to give an exhibition dance at the big square
dance later in the evening, rode in the parade in a
horse-drawn wagon.

About nine that evening, the young people of
Augusta and their guests donned blue jeans and
gingham dresses and turned out for the big square
dance. They had a wonderful time. A three-piece
hillbilly band played typical music for the old-
time dances and, when everyone grew weary of

squares and rounds, a juke box furnished smooth
tunes.

lANUARY 1947

Windup

Saturday, October 26, the last day of the festi-
val, had the heaviest schedule of the week. The
out-of—town bands again played concerts down-
town. A real old-fashioned barbecue was held at
Lake Olmsted for all the out-of—town guests. There
was a special trip for the young people aboard the

' steamboat Robert E. Lee that operates along the

Savannah River. Music and dancing were included
in the program whose highlight was the present‘ae
tion of C olom'al Showboat Saturday Night, which
climaxed the festival.

The Showboat was a two-hour variety show pre-
sented by the youth organization, and it “ realy
showed Augusta just what fine talent its young
people have. There were musical numbers, in-
cluding Chinese and Gypsy scenes, an “eight to the
bar” number in elaborate costumes and several
solo selections, a three—piece jazz band that made
quite a hit with the audience, and many other acts
that went to make up a most delightful program.

' Evaluation

The first Augusta Youth Festival was a tre-
mendous success. The work of the 'youngsters
themselves .certainly was the main factor in put-
ting it over, but it could not have been the success
it was without the generous help of each person
in the community. The various civic organizations
—Boy Scout troops, Girl Scout troops, Y.M.C.A.,
Teen-Age clubs, Y. W. C. A.——the schools and
churches of the city pooled their efforts to back
these boys and girls '100 per cent. The public
moreover, would have known little of what was
going on if it had not been for the splendid co—
operation of both radio stations and newspapers.

The success of the program indicates what fine
work can be done by boys and girls in and around
this “in between” age when they are encouraged
in their efforts and have their energy and ambition
guided in the proper channels. It taught them the
value of co-recreation and the ability to accept and
shoulder responsibility. Surely work such as this
with the young boys and girls today will help
them to develop into better and more well-rounded
citizens of tomorrow. r

The second Augusta Youth Festival will be a
larger and better one than the first. The young
people here are already working and planning for
it, and that in itself is enough assurance for any-
one.

Renaissance
in St. Louis

HE FEATURED role played by the St. Louis
Recreation Department during St. Louis Week
observance is indicative of the growth and
'expansion of the municipal recreation movement
in the Mound City. For, in less than 40 years,
since the organization of the first civic recreation
body, With its four city-operated playgrounds and
three parks, the recreation department has grown
to embrace 67 parks and playgrounds all of which
are city-owned, eight play areas which the city
leases and operates, 45 lawn strips which are simi-
lar to neighborhood parks in their value to the
community, nine community centers operated all
year round, seven indoor swimming pools, two
large outdoor pools, 45 baseball diamonds, 106
softball diamonds, 14 football fields, 47 soccer
fields, 140 tennis courts, nine handball courts and
numerous other recreation facilities located within
the park areas. ' “
All the city’s playgrounds are staffed with com-
petent, experienced personnel, 'whose'job it is to
follow and develop '
the overall pro-
gram set up by the
recreation office.
All positions with—
in the recreation
department are
filled through civil
service examina-
tions. The present
recreation staff,
headed by Com—
missioner Palmer
B. Baumes, is one
of the most pro—
gressive in the
city’s history.
. The stereotyped
program of many
years has been ex—
changedforan
imaginative, re-
freshingly differ-
em and novel pro-
gram. Efforts are

538

By J. A. TURNER

Superintendent of Recreation
St. Louis. Missouri

being made to approach personally all existing
groups, social as well as athletic and of all ages to
acquaint them with the city’s facilities and to get
them to become an integral part of the community
center program. St. Louis now provides a recre-
ation program for every group from the Eternal
Youth Clubs, whose members must have exceeded
60 years of age to the preschool children who play
in the Tiny Tot Garden, a recently constructed
playground complete with miniature doll-size see-
saws and other playground equipment. This Tiny
Tot Garden is entered through an eight foot replica
of the home of the “little old woman who lived
in a shoe.”

Weekly during the summer and bi—weekly dur-
ing the community center season, in—service train-
ing classes are given for all the city’s recreation
employees. At these training sessions, the recrea—

Fun on skates

-- “1-”va

’ l

;  ‘. 12". I. f
1‘ . I I  ,cg" . 
'I   ‘3‘ ‘5 -. ,. l
94 “’5 3%“; I
au- .

it - ' -

I O

4 I ‘k I
 "t '

4
f.

t
.-

 

' '  "Lem   ’:.'.

RECREATION

tion workers 'are taught theory and philosophy and
are encouraged actually to play and to participate
' in various activities. These classes under the super-
vision of experts within the staff and outside in-
structors are held on Saturday mornings at the
community center, one of the largest, best equipped
recreation buildings in the country. These classes
have resulted in an efficient, capable staff for all
of St. Louis’ recreation facilities.

Plans for the Future

St. Louis’ postwar plans are already completed.
They were based on the recommendations of the
City Planning Commission survey. The financing
of this postwar plan is assured through a recent

bond issue, which amply provides for the great ex-
’ pansion necessary for St. Louis to attain an ideal
: recreation setup under municipal control. It is ten-
tatively proposed that, in the completion of the
city-wide plan, no one will be forced to go more
than six blocks in any direction, from any spot
within the city to find a large playground and park
area, and each large _city block will be provided
with a small play area within that block for the
tots. '

This ideal recreation setup does not seem too
far distant when the past growth of the St. Louis
Recreation Department is considered. The fact
that the recreation department has achieved recog-
nition among the essential divisions of the city
government in less than 40 years, the tremendous
growth and expansion of the city’s recreation fa-
cilities is proof that St. Louisans, with their re-
awakened' interest in recreation, are capable of
attaining that ideal in the not-too-distant future.

History

It is interesting to trace the growth of the rec-
reation movement in St. Louis from its inception
in '1900. In that year, a group from a woman’s
club operated the city’s first playground in the
yard of the Shields School near the waterfront.
This first playground operated only during the
vacation months and had no definite program. It
was just a place for interested mothers to watch
their children play and try to direct that play into
the most beneficial channels.

The following year, a group of women’s clubs
cooperated in the operation of four playgrounds,
again open only during the summer. This gradual
' growth continued without any real municipal con-
trol until 1904 when a public bath commission was
formed to operate a newlycompleted bath house.

JANUARY 1.947

This commission, late in that year, assumed con—
trol and operation of the adjacent playground.
Then, in 1907, the first recreation commission was
authorized and appointed to take over control of
the city’s existing playgrounds and to establish
four additional playgrounds in crowded sections
of the city. That commission was the forerunner
of the present recreation department.

The first annual report of this recreation com-
mission contains the recommendation that athletic
fields be established in each of the city’s three
large parks. The only athletic fields in existence
then were two in Forest Park. The first commis-
sion also recommended that more playgrounds be
built near where the children lived and that at
least two playgrounds be built for colored chil-
dren who were apparently ignored in these early
days. The commission raised the question of the

.need for outdoor swimming pools in each of the

parks, also the need for some logical use.of the
facilities afforded St. Louis by the Mississippi
River, whose waters, it was stated, were “cloudy
but pure enough for swimming.”

The activities in these first playgrounds were
mainly gymnastic games of a German origin. No
concrete programs were established. But, at least,
these early playgrounds were a tangible start to-
ward the ultimate goal. St. Louis’ recreation pro-
gram staggered along for years, keeping pace with
the city’s development.

For a short time, during the war years, the mu-
nicipal recreation staff fell into a lethargy; the pro-
gram became stagnant. The result was a loss of
interest in city recreation by St. Louisans as a.
whole. But now, the city’s recreation staff has
been shuffled, rejuvenated; a few changes in policy
and organization brought about; the entire staff
uniformed, and a new comprehensive, flexible,
varied recreation program initiated. And St.
Louisans, as a whole, have been led to take an
interest in municipal recreation through an exten-
sive, active publicity campaign. At the present
time, each issue of every local newspaper contains
at least one or two items concerning the city’s
recreation program, and the metropolitan papers
have been reawakened to the point where they con-
stantly request material, whereas in the past, the
larger papers considered community center and
playground news too trivial to print. In addition,
the large metropolitan papers have carried several
extensive feature articles on city recreation. '

(Continued on page 556) a

Folk Camp.

By JANE FARWELL

Rural Recreation Specialist
National Recreation Association

HE SEVENTH consecutive autumn folk festival
Twas held' at Oglebay Park, West Virginia,

September 5-8, 1946. This event began seven
years ago as a conclave of folk—dancing 4-H Clubs.
It has progressed through several stages of form
and meaning. In recent years it has grown to be
a three to six day camp attracting rural and urban
adult and youth leaders representing scores of or—
ganizations and as many states. It is now a work-
shop for the exchange of folk dances, songs,
squares, play party games, recreation sources, and
crafts for camp programs. In addition, certain
well-established features, such as nationality meals
served in costume and outdoor cooking for the
whole group, have become traditional. A consid-
erable amount of mental and physical energy has
always gone into concocting the announcements,
decorations, and programs for camp, and these
have ranged from hand-spattered and cutout work
to water-color painting and silk screening.

The camp has been held every spring and fall,
usually during Memorial and Labor Day weeks,
'and has grown from an initial crOwd of 35 to an
average of 125‘ the last two years. During the
course of the camps, lots of time and' grief have
been spent in working up festivals to be presented,
sometimes to an audience of as many as 2,100
people, and one camp was almost entirely con-
sumed by the making of a technicolor movie of
the various groups participating. The recent trend
is to spend all this precious time in the exchange
of ideas, songs, and games. It might not be so
colorful from the outsider’s point of view, but those
who take part have more fun and fellowship, and
that of course is the main reason for any of these
folk activities. '

'As far as we have been able to determine, the
Oglebay Folk Camp was the first of its kind for
lay people in the country, and those who helped
establish it in the spring of 1942 and saw it thrive
through the- gas-and—man-scarce'war years have
been'happy to see a half dozen similar camps born
-of its inspiration in Pennsylvania, West Virginia,
and other states. ‘

During the 'past five years the rural department

540

of Oglebay Institute, cooperating with the exten-
sion service of West Virginia University, has acted
as sponsor for the camps. This year the fee charged
for each meal was large enough to finance help for
the camp director from the National Recreation
Association.

Program

The following varied events were included in

the tenth anniversary camp:

2 morning nature walks _

1 outdoor breakfast (with biscuit twists, sunkist eggs,
bacon curls, and other cook—out features)

loutdoor “corn roast” dinner (which took place,
luckily, the day the gas was turned off in the

kitchens !)
8 folk song sessions

3 singing game classes

5‘ square dance classes _

5 folk dance classes (We emphasized the simpler
dances and used many that had been taught at the
spring camp, since there were many newcomers.)

Craft classes both afternoons

Recreation library exhibit

Discussion of sources for folk activities

2 inspirational campfire programs

3 parties including' many forms of social recreation

fbesides folk dancing

1 radio program
Showing of folk dance movies of previous camps.

Camp Leaders

In addition to the aid of the National Recreation I
Association the group of young peOple known for
the past six years as the Oglebay Folk Dancers -
(about 18 in number at the present time) took the
main responsibility in organizing, planning and
working out the camp program. Without the de-
voted efforts of this group there might never have
been a camp in the first place. They took full
responsibility for making the programs, getting
out announcements, working out the decorations,
planning and arranging nationality meals, and
helping to‘ teach all the classes from song leader«
ship and folk dancing to crafts. This camp was
especially fine because all but one of the boys who
had been members of this group were back from
the war.

Many leaders gave wholeheartedly of their ideas
and time, making this a very well-balanced camp
for the exchange of folklore knowledge. Very fine
contributions were made by unexpected guests ~
such as the Negro music teacher from Pittsburgh
who made a great hit with his spirituals, the.
melodies of which still seemed to be in the air after
the last person departed on Sunday afternoon.
And there was the old-time fiddler who “just hap—

RECREATION

pened” in with his violin and whose fiddling added
a zest to our music never heard before, and the

square dance; callers'who turned out "some of the-

lllOSt' interesting figures we had seen in a long
time. °

The People

By the last day of camp the daytime attendance
had swelled to more than 125, and included IO
people who had been at all IO camps since the first
one was organized. At the Hawaiian dinner these
“charter members” were awarded tokens of good
fellowship—leis made and presented in true Ha—
waiian style. There were a number of 4-H Club
members present, dozens of 4-H and Scout leaders,
teachers, leaders of folk dance groups both rural
and urban, church leaders. A half dozen colleges
were represented, from Antioch in Ohio to Har-
vard in Boston, and there were many “just folks."
The group that gathers at Oglebay for this event
always seems to be the warmest in the world. The
combined enthusi-
asm and spirit
which they build
up by the final day
of camp appears to
be right on the
point of exploding
—and never quite
does!

Atmosphere

Much of the at-
mosphere is cre-
ated before camp
begins—{reated by
.the gay peasant
decorations, which
:are always differ-
ent. This year, be—
cause of the anni-
versary idea, about
1,000 feet of wide
paper “eyelet em-
broidery” ruffles
were made and
used to festoon‘the
log recreation hall.
.The center wagon—
wheel light fixture
over the fireplace
was adorned in a
gay ruffled paper

JANUARY 1947

petticoat with pantaloons peeking below. (Jay
hearts and flowers were painted on the embroidery
running across the beams. Perhaps the most un-
usual note was the enormous 18—page-cardboard
scrapbook which included souvenirs, programs,
name tags, announcements and pictures from all
the former camps. Old—fashioned “tintype” por—
traitsof outstanding people were sketched and
hung in eyelet frames around the room.

.This year, more than ever before, everyone tried
to appear at all times in peasant type clothes—and
nearly every dress covered a real pettitcoat and
proper accessories.

The nationality meals added the usual festive
flavor to the noon and evening meals at camp.
This year a South Sea Island meal was introduced,
with those on the committee dressed in authentic

(Continued on page 563)

Time +0 dance

 

541

ln’rer-civic Club Recreation Jamboree

By LOUIS E. MEANS
Director, Student Physical Welfare
University of Nebraska

Lincoln. Nebraska

HOLESOME, lasting, friend—

ly relationships between

school and community
loom great in the planning and
thinking of all physical educators
and athletic coaches in America today. Often it
becomes necessary to study new ways of obtain-
ing parental cooperation and interest in the school
program, and a closer understanding of the real
and vital objectives of physical education, recrea-
tion and athletics as a whole in each community.

The author has found that no one specific plan_

or idea will develop this desired close harmony
and understanding. Each community has indi4
vidual problems that must be solved accordingly.
Perhaps a combination of many different ideas,
with much initiative on the part of school authori-
ties, will be necessary to create and maintain good
schOol-community relationships. However, the
inter—civic club recreation Jamboree is here sug-
gested as one very powerful and workable program
in stimulating this relationship. This article is not
offered as something entirely 'new or unique. It
may be said, however, that very few schools have,
to date, developed such a plan of adult recreation—
a plan which brings quick and satisfying results to
the director and the school. Some features of the
plan offered here may be helpful in developing
similar programs in other cities.

Objectives of the Jamboree

In a series of recreation jamborees initiated and
carried on by the author at Beloit College, Wis-
cbnsin, and at the University of Nebraska, the
primary objective was to establish a program that
would bring to the University gymnasium, at least
once a year, every man in the community repre-
senting any civic or service club. In the process
of developing this plan certain things became ap-
parent. The whole program should be built around
a competitive framework, augmented with plenty
of opportunity for good fellowship and relaxation.
Many of the busy men who will attend one of the
jamborees will be there for the first time. They
may have had no prior interest in athletics or this
kind of recreation. Perhaps they have never before
had the opportunity to learn how to play. Others
will be “old timers” in recreation experience and

542

will make natural leaders. This 3
program is appropriate for young
and old alike. Activities, there-
fore, must be selected to appeal
to all types of men. This is one
time in the busy business year of the community
when the club members can “let their hair down.”
Old friends will welcome this opportunity to get
together. It is, furthermore, a chance to make new I
friends and contacts under the most ideal condi-
tions. It may be one of the very few times in the
life of many communities when members of all the
civic clubs can rub elbows together: It affords
the director and all his staff a fine opportunity to
get acquainted with the men who influence think-
ing most in the community.' It can be done with a
minimum of Work and effort, but it must not be
approached too lightly, because much is demanded
in organization and planning, and in preparation
and clean-up of the plant and facilities.

Preliminary Planning

The first step in organizing the Jamboree is to
talk to a few leaders from various clubs to see if
the program sounds inviting and welcome to them
—practically a foregone conclusion. The next step
is to invite each club, through its president, to
send one or more representatives to a meeting to
discuss preliminary plans and details. A luncheon
meeting is the best time for this. The director
should have all details well in mind and all plans
carefully worked out. New suggestions from the

I, group could then be accepted if feasible, but the

club representatives will be there primarily to
hear suggestions and plans and not to formulate
them. Each club is asked to appoint a. Jamboree
Chairman who will organize his entries carefully
and see that each man is present and active. Each
club chairman should in turn appoint captains in
each team activity, so that responsibility can be
passed down the membership roster. The captains
should also insure the presence of each team en- 1
tered by each club. The director should have“1
mimeographed bulletins ready for this first meet&
ing. Matters of finance should be worked out andl.
approved at this meeting. The point system and
the method of competition should be agreed upon

and the actual date should be set.

   

Fri
(:3
E
E
o
3’

\

Organization of the
Jamboree

After years of trying out
different activities it has been
found that the following
events lend themselves best
to limited space, and will
meet the age and interest of
the greater number of those
present. All lend themselves
to competitive organization:

Bowling

Dart baseball
Dart bowling
Volley ball

Bridge
Checkers

Cribbage
Table tennis singles
Badminton doubles

Basketball free throws

One or two comedy-type
events such as the ping-pong
shot ‘put may well be in-
cluded. Basketball, competi-
tive swimming, zel-ball and
similar active games are not
appropriate for heated com-
petition without previous con-
ditioning and, if they _were
. used, would cause too many
. sore muscles. In addition to

Bowling

Checkers
Cribbage

Bridge

Badminton

the competitions, other ac- Volley Ball

tivities such as cards, dart
games, recreational swimming
for those who desire a “dip,”
zel—ball, golf driving and put-
ting should be provided. In
competitions champions in
each activity should be de-
termined by the single elimination method for both
teams and individuals.

The competition in bowling can well be or-
ganized to precede the Jamboree night by about
one week at one of the local alleys. One or two
five—man teams from each club can compete and
the total net scores from both teams can be added
to determine final placing. As the Jamboree pro-
per gets under way, the bowling points can be
posted on a large scoreboard in advance.

In arranging the Jamboree time schedule it is
'best to have all events except volley ball running
simultaneously. This keeps any man from com-
peting in several events and insures a large entry

Totals

IANUARY 1947

 

Free Throws

Dart Baseball

Dart Bowling

Shuffleboard

Ping Pong shot Put -

E
1.:
0
a
(D
p.
D

 

OPTIMIST
COOPERATIVE
o SMOPOLI TAN

III-IIIIIIIIII LIONS
III-IIIIIIII-l Rom

-IIIIIIIIIIIIII J. c. 0.

list from each club. Play-offs must decide the
champions as well as second, third and fourth
places. The volley ball competition can then form
the competitive climax of the evening. Use short
games instead of regular length games because the
winners must play more than one match and will
not be ready for too much action in one evening.

The Point System

A point system must be carefully worked out,
as competition will be very keen. Competitors
will want to know how every point is determined
as they begin to catch the competitive spirit. The
following schedule of points is workable:

543

Group One Actiw'ties Group Two Activities

Bowling Basketball free throws
Volley ball Table tennis singles
Dart baseball Checkers
Badminton doubles Ping-pong shot put
Bridge Shufiieboard
Cribbage
Points scored as follows:
Group One Group Two
Place Events Events

First place . . . . . . . .. 210 160

Second place . . . . . . . 175 125

Third place . . . . . . . . . 150 100

Fourth place . . . . . . .. 125 80

Fifth place . . . . . . . .. 90 60

Sixth place . . . . . . . .. 60 40

Participating . . . . . . . 30 20

It is well to award almost as many places as
there are clubs entered so that all will be happy in
winning some points in every event.

A point system must also be worked out to
determine team places in the group two or indi-
vidual type events. The following is suggested:

Lose first round match . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20 points

Win first round match . . . . . . . . . . . . ..25 points

Play each additional match . . . . . . . . . . 15 points

Bonus to losing finalist . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 points

Bonus to the champion . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15 points

The addition of these points in any one event
will determine the team’s standing in that par-
ticular event.

Entries from Clubs

Proper entry blanks must be prepared in suffici-
ent quantity to permit each club chairman to have
copies, with one official c0py due in the director’s
office well in advance of the Jamboree. Each club
should be restricted to two bridge teams, two crib-
bage teams, two badminton doubles teams, one
volley ball team, one team each in dart baseball
and dart bowling, and two, three, or four men
each in the individual events determined by the
facility in making pairings.

Special Equipment

Much interest will be aroused if a large score.-
board can be placed where everybody can follow
the progress of competition during the evening.
A scorer should be on hand to record results as
soon as they are completed. The chart illustrated
here is one way of preparing the scoreboard for
the competition.

A loud speaker and announcer should be pro-
vided. It will be invaluable at the start of the
Jamboree to get all captains and their“ teams to the
proper place and to call the matches and games

544

. pencils, and the like.

0-

scheduled. The” announcer might well have a
assistant who goes from place to place, gatheri 3
results, winners, and best marks. Other interest
ing comments from the announcer will enliven th

evening’s pleasure.

OHicials

Assistants should be organized to supervise th '
various events and to see that they move smoothly
Each dart game will need umpires and scorers an
other events will demand different types of super
vision.

Publicity

Proper local publicity in the newspapers follow
ing the preliminary meeting should be planned
Advance schedules for the bowling and the Jam
boree night should be detailed. All pairings s110ul
be printed in advance. Papers should be urged t
have .photographers present to take interestin
action shots. which will help put the event acros
in future years. Final results should be carrie
in detail. '

Financing the Jamboree

It has been the author’s experience that all civic
clubs will demand the right to pay their share of
the total.expense. When three to eight clubs Split ‘
the cost of the evening’s fun and refreshments, th _
cost to any one group will be insignificant. It is
better to have ea'ch club make advance reserva-
tions, and then have each club pay its pro rata
cost based on its membership roster and advance
reservations. This will eliminate the embarrass—
ment of individual collections or assessments on the
night of the event, a plan which is not recom-
mended. Some men will want to come early and
and leave before it is over. Others wil merely drop I
in and stay for refreshments. Others will be there
throughout the evening. This makes individual
payments impractical.

Various merchants in the community can be
found who will furnish card tables, decks of play-
ing cards, cribbage scoreboards, folding chairs,
table and pedestal ash trays, and other parapher-
nalia needed. Be sure to have plenty of ash trays
everywhere for the air.will be blue with smoke”
Don’t forget to purchase the little things that make’t'

the evening a success, such as bridge score pads,“
I

 

A check room should be available fer coats and
hats. One or two of your assistants can set up this ‘

(Continued on page 564)

 
 

"d

RECREATION ‘

WORLD AT PLAY

THE National Conference
of Christians and Jews
announces the 14th an—
nual observance of Brotherhood Week February
16-23, 1947. The theme is “Brotherhood-Pattern
for Peace.” Program aids for use in schools and
colleges may be secured by writing to the Na-—
tional Conference of Christians and Jews, 381
Fourth Avenue, New York 16, New York. Ma—
terials are adapted to age levels in the schools.
Plays, comics, posters, book lists and other'types
of literature, and visual aids .are available.

Brotherhood Week

THE San Francisco Rec-
reation Department. and
the San Francisco Public
Library are sending two treasure chests of books
to children in the East who have too long been
deprived of _the chance to read for fun. Each chest
will carry 30 books selected from a carefully pre—
pared master list. One of them will go to China,
the other to the Philippines. In each chest there will
be two scrapbooks. -One of them will be chocka-
block with material about the boys and girls who
are sending it from San Francisco. The other will
be blank, save for a request that it be filled with
similar data about the youngsters to whom it is
addressed, and then returned to 'the donors.

Treasure Chests

THE Arvida Athletic As-
sociation, Inc., Arvida,
Quebec, sponsored a IO-
day showing of an art exhibit at the recreation
center. “A Century of Canadian Arts,” on loan
from the Provincial Museum, was exhibited from
October 18 to 28, 1946. There were 59 pictures
representing artists who, in their dates, covered
the 140 years from 1804 to 1944. An acknowledg-
ment, prefixing the,exhibit’s catalogue, pays tribute
to the Secretary of the Province of Quebec and to
the Curator of the Provincial Museum for making
the exhibit possible.

Art Exhibit

FORTY-NINE free passes
to all activities sponsored
a by the Recreation Depart-
ment of Steubenville, Ohio, have been issued to

Cards for Vets,

discharged Veterans of World War II. The privi- '

lege of free use of all the city’s recreation facili-

JANUARY 1947

ties is extended to the ex-servicemen for a period
of one year from the date of issuance of the card.
The veterans are also asked to check a list of
activities in which they are interested. When a
large number of them have expressed interest in
some particular activity the department plans to
organize a special program for them.

THE lunchrdom of a high
school in Chicago was
becoming a problem be—
cause, in addition to providing lunches for hun—
dreds of pupils it was also providing them with an
after—lunch hangout. The faculty put their minds
to the problem and came up with a solution. Now
there’s a noon-time dance each day on the school
stage. The school provided a phonograph. Penny
collections take care of the latest dance records.
The youngsters no longer hang around the lunch-
room when their meal is eaten. They move on to
the auditorium to dance or to sit around for a ses-
sion of “lip-lobbing” to the background accom-
paniment of their favorite name band.

Let’s Dance

HISTORY came alive not
long ago for a group of
fifth-graders in a Cincin—
nati public school. They were studying the period
of the westward trek to Oregon. In the space of a
half-mile of city streets costumed children with the
aid of cardboard properties, imagination and his-
torical information relived the trek with all its
excitement and dangers.

The Oregon Trail

“FRIDAY night in Chat—
tanooga I was panting on
a bench in the Greyhound

Missionary Work

'station, waiting for a bus to Cleveland, and the

woman sitting near me leaned over and asked.
‘Are you a missionery ?’ I started to answer No,
but bethought myself and answered that I was,
though not exactly in the religious field. She gave
me a warm smile and a pat and nodded to the
man next to her. ‘I told my husband when you
came in that I just knew you were.’ Wondering
if I had acquired during the last six months the
pious, resigned look that I associate with workers
in the missionary field I asked her why she thought
I was a missionary. She pointed to my big suitcase

54S

that I had struggled into the station with and said,
‘Missionaries always have such big satchels!’ "——
From a field worker of the National Recreation

Association.

Pre-cub Reporters—Teen-agers in Union
City, New Jersey, are being given a chance to
learn something about newspapers thanks to the
Recreation Commission. The club, formed at the
request of the young people, meets once a week
for a two-hour session. With the help of a news-
paper man interested in the project the club mem-
bers study writing, learn the difference between
propaganda and fact and something about gOvern-
mental organization, carry out assignments.

Centennial—During the first week in July,
Hamilton, Ontario, celebrated its centennial. Part
of that celebration was a 10-day sports program.
The range of sports was large and varied. It in-
cluded tennis, yachting, softball and hardball, bowl-
ing, barbell and weight lifting, lacrosse, golf,
checkers, cricket, rowing, trap shooting, swimming
and diving, archery, casting, bicycling, horseshoe
pitching, motor cycling, soccer. Both professional
and amateurs participated in some. of the events.
There were junior and senior teams, industrial
teams and sports clubs on hand. All the groups
combined to prove that there are sportsmen and to
spare in Hamilton—and no lack of opportunity for
them to indulge in their favorite pastime.

Recreation in Indiana—The Governor of In-
diana, Ralph F. Gates, on June 11, 1946, ap-
pointed an advisory committee to the Economic
Council on the subject of recreation. The purpose
of the committee is to make a study of the recrea-
tion needs throughout Indiana and to make recom-
mendations to communities throughout the State
on their recreation programs. The committee will
consider recreation legislation not only in behalf
of the children but also as related to the adult
population. The Economic Council will furnish to
this committee the necessary research facilities. The
Governor named Garrett Eppley, Field Recreation
Consultant of Indiana University, as chairman of
this committee.

Knowing Their City—A group of teen-agers
in San Francisco worked out for themselves an
interesting activity last“ summer. They planned a
series of eight Saturday tours designed to intro-

546

\

duce the youngsters to some of the seldom visited
parts of the city. When the tours were over the
group had a forum to talk about what they had

seen .

New Chairman—Mrs. Charles F. Prickett has
been appointed Chairman of the Executive Coun-
cil of the Pasadena Department of Recreation.
Mrs. Prickett is widely known as a Pasadena civic
leader and for several weeks recently worked on a
special survey looking to the expansion of the
Pasadena Recreation Department. Mrs. Prickett
is the first woman to be chosen head of the Coun-
cil in-its 23 years. Mrs. Prickett has been with
the Community Playhouse at Pasadena since 1937
and received her master’s degree in theater arts in
1931. Cooking, collecting recipes, earrings, and
millinery are Mrs. Prickett’s hobbies.

Summer in St. Paul, Minnesota—Old time
dance classes, radio broadcasts, a scrapbook con-
test are some of the many activities that make St.
Paul’s playgrounds a good place to play in sum- I
mer. Over 100 men and women learned the old '
dances—schottische, polka, waltz, mazurka, circle
two-step, squares—in weekly classes. Each Sat-
urday teams from two playgrounds did a quiz pro-
gram—A Penny for Y our Thoughts— over the
radio. A penny was awarded for each correct
answer. Boys and girls up to 17 competed in mak-
ing scrapbooks which were judged for originality,
design and artistic value, workmanship and con-
tent. Three hundred scrapbooks were turned over
to the Red Cross to be used in hospitals.

New Parks Acquired in Illinois— A report
from Illinois indicates that that State is making N
steady progress in acquiring new parks. Already
in 1946 two new parks have been acquired, one of
400 acres, one of 20 acres. In the year 1945, ad-
ditional acreage was acquired for six State parks
ranging from 86 to 1,104 acres and totaling 2,131
acres. '

Library for Summer Recreation—In 1936 the
Recreation Department in Salt Lake City, Utah,
started a summer project that is still going strong. \1‘
The Department undertook to pay the cost of fl.
operating a free library for children so that they
might have books—and help in choosing them—
within walking distance of home. The Public Li-

( Continued on page 556)

RECREATION

M/e leager

that circumstances have taken bit in teeth

and raced beyond control so

BEGREATIIJN AREAS, THEIR DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT

will not be off the press until February 1

gut Joel!

It’s worth waiting for. There are chapters on

Types of Municipal Recreation Areas
Design and Construction Features
' Playground Apparatus
Pools, Facilities and Equipment
Buildings
Areas for Games and“ Sports
The Neighborhood Playground
The Playiield
The Athletic Field.

Landscape Design and DeveIOpment

Preparation of Areas for Winter Use

(II/1,6!

there are 169 plates . . . plans, photographs, diagrams . . . for
buildings, playgrounds, parks, outdoor theaters, pools, grandstands

Order Your Copy Now

NATIIINAL RECREATIIIN ASSHCIATIIIN, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

' PRICE $6.00

JANUARY 1947 547

. Conference Report

National Conference for the Prevention’and
Control of Juvenile Delinquency

November 20,21, 22, 1946
Washington, D. C.

N OCTOBER 1945 shortly after the close of the
I war the Department of Justice became con-
cerned with the problem of approximately 1,500
juveniles under the department’s control and
.sought guidance from various authorities con—
cerned with the youth problem. In February 1946
the group called together and known as the Na-
tional Advisory Panel to the Attorney General on
Juvenile Delinquency Problems recommended
among other things that a larger conference be
held bringing together representatives of all groups
concerned with youth to discuss both the preven-
tive and correctional aspects of the juvenile delin-
quency problem. The conference was divided up

into some 18 different panels as follows:
Report 1. Community Coordination

Report 2. Juvenile Court Law

Report 3. Juvenile Court Administration

Report 4. Detention

Report 5. Institutional Treatment of Delinquent
Juveniles .

Report 6. Role of the Police in Juvenile Delinquency

Report 7. Housing, Community DeveIOpment and

Juvenile Delinquency
Report 8. Recreation for Youth
Report 9. Mental Health and Child Guidance C-linics
Report 10. Youth Participation
Report 11. Citizen Participation
Report 12. Case \Vork—Group Work Services
Report 13. The Church
Report 14-. The School as 3 Preventive Agency
Report 15. Home Responsibility
Report 16. 'Rural Aspects of Juvenile Delinquency
Report 17. Statistics
Report 18. Press, Radio and Motion Pictures

The conference itself brought together some 800
delegates from all parts of the country represent-
ing many different groups. It convened in a gen—
eral session Wednesday, November 20 and heard
a message from President Truman who said, “Re-
cent reports from the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation reveal in bold relief that lots of juvenile
delinquency problems still lie in the homes, schools,
neighborhoods and churches of our nation and are
tied to our everyday lives.” Associate Justice
l-Iarold Burton of the Supreme Court, who will
be remembered by many recreation people for his
addresses at the Recreation Congresses in Pitts-
burgh and Cleveland, read the President’s message

548

and also addressed the conference stating that its
aim was to subtract from the number of criminals
and to add to the forces of law and order through
strengthening the forces of prevention. Governor
Clarence \V. Meadows .of West Virginia con-
trasted two communities in his state and praised
highly the effective work being done by one which
provides a community recreation program with
another that has a costly jail system and no recre-
ation program. The delinquency in the former is
very much less than that in the latter.

Following the opening session the conference

divided up into panels for the consideration of

preliminary recommendations and reports already
drawn up by smaller groups.

The panel on recreation had'for its considera-
tion a mimeographed document of some I50 pages
which had been put together by the preliminary
committee. In addition to the general text of the
document there were some 25 pages of principles,
specific recommendations, and a list of the agencies
urged to work for the action recommended.

Throughout Wednesday afternoon and evening
and all day Thursday the panel of between 30 and
50 persons read and discussed the various princi-
ples and recommendations, making such changes
as the group desired. Obviously in a time as short
as this and with the method of trying to write a
manuscript with such a large group, there is much
of difhculty. However with certain few exceptions
the report of the recreation panel as presented to
the general conference by George Hjelte, chair?
man of the panel, was a good statement of recrea-
tion philosophy—~— objectives and methods —and '
ought to be helpful throughout the country in in-
terpreting the important part that recreation has
to play in the prevention of juvenile delinquency. I
The report as presented to the general conference ;
was as follows.

l
Report of Recreation Panel l

It is the view of the Panel -on Recreation for
Youth that recreation has an important contribu-
tion to make under conditions which require cor—-
rective or social treatment of delinquent juveniles.
The Panel recommends that recreation and youth
leaders cooperate with teachers, psychiatrists, pro-
bation officers, and institutional authorities in the
utilization of recreation as a therapeutic agent‘ii
where it is needed for corrective purposes. ill

The Panel, however, shares the conviction of
Attorney General Tom C. Clark and of Governor
Clarence W. Meadows of West Virginia, who ad-

‘ RECREATION

dressed the opening session of this conference, that

lrecreation is a most effective preventive of juve—
|nile delinquency and that its most potent use to—
ward this end lies in the provision of wholesome
recreation opportunities fOr all youth everywhere
throughout the nation. The Panel established the
general principle that recreation is a major neces—
sity and safeguard and recommended that recrea-
tion be presented to youth positively with empha-
sis on his choice in free time and on his dignity as
an individual rather than as a cure-all for all die-
Iinquencies of youth.

Youth must have a large part not only in the
planning of recreation services, but also in the role
of leadership. Young people are entitled to both
share and lead in a democratic society. It is recom-
mended by the Panel that youth be represented on
committees and advisory councils responsible for
providing youth recreation programs, and that
they have a voice in the preparation of plans for
training of leaders; also that they be encouraged
to serve as leaders.

While recognizing that the democratic right to
choose one’s own recreation is a fundamental right
of all youth, it is the view of the panel that this
right might well be denied by the failure of com—
munities to provide essential means for the exer—
cise of it. Accordingly, it Was concluded by the
Panel that recreation is a primary responsibility of
every community and must be adequately pro-
vided to meet the needs of youth regardless of
race, creed, or economic status. The Panel
recommends :

That municipalities and counties establish tax-
supported recreation systems and that existing
systems be strengthened.

I That states provide:

Recreation programs and facilities only where
they are best administered on a statewide basis.

Consultation services on recreation to the sev-
eral political subdivisions.

That the federal government strengthen its pres—
ent authorized recreation programs and seek the
establishment of a federal recreation service and
such additional authorization necessary to provide
the states and political subdivisions of the states,
acting through the states, with technical advice on
recreation programs.

That federal agencies be brought together in a
cooperative relationship to the end that the fed—
eral responsibilities in the held of recreation can

be adequately met in accordance with their separ-
ate authorizations.

lANUARY 1947

To effect these improvements in the realm of
governmental responsibility for recreation, the
Panel urges action upon city and county othcials,
governors and state legislatures, and the Congress
of the United States of America.

Other specilic recommendations are made by the
Panel with respect to the provision of wholesome
recreation for youth as follows:

Recreation tor Youth—in Public
Recreation Agencies

The public recreation system should furnish ade-
quate recreation services to all neighborhoods, all
races, all ages. '

Action should be taken by city and town coun—
cils, recreation administrators, councils of social
agencies, and neighborhood and civic groups.

Recreation for Youth—in Schools
School facilities should be operated beyond

' school hours as community centers. Education for

leisure should be provided through school curricu-
lum and otherwise in the choice of leisure—time '
activities. School leisure-time programs should co-
operate with and complement the home in planning
for leisure-time choices and activity skills. Schools
should join with other agencies park and recrea-
tion departments, social agencies, youth serving
organizations—in a coordinated plan and program.
\Vhen schools operate recreation programs, pro-
fessionally trained recreation leaders should be em—
ployed by schools to give leadership in recreation.
Some training and experience in the leadership of
recreation activities should be included in the pro-
fessional training of all teachers. The functional
design of school buildings should provide for school
and community recreation use. ’

Action should be taken by school boards and ad-
ministrators, local and state education and recrea-
tion authorities, teacher training institutions, and
parent—teacher organizations.

 

Recreation for Youth—in Libraries

Libraries with appr0priate services are essential
in a recreation program. Books, periodicals, re—
cordings and other materials are a part of public
services for recreation. Where not easily accessible
they should be brought to youth by bookmobile or
other means. Young people should be encouraged
to turn to books, libraries and museums for infor-
mation and pleasure and should be consulted in
planning library services.

549

Action should be taken by all recreation agen-
cies, public and private, and,by city, county and
town officials and school authorities.

Recreation tor Youth—in Camps

Camping contributes to‘the recreation needs of
youth. Camping for more youth is needed. Ap-
propriate facilities under public voluntary and pri-
vate auspices should be developed to make camp-
ing opportunities available to all groups within the
population. Qualified leadership should be pro-
vided in camps. Communities should study local
camping resources and needs. Existing camping
facilities should be more fully utilized.

Action is indicated on the part of welfare coun-
cils, community chests, all youth service agencies,
and public recreation departments.

Recreation tor Youth—in Institutions
In correction institutions recreation should be

regarded as an essential part of normal living and .

as a positive development force for individual fit-
ness and citizenship. It should not be looked upon
as a device to fill time or as a reward or punish-
ment. Adequate provision must be made for rec-
reation in institutions for juvenile delinquents to
be under the direction of professionally trained
and carefully selected recreation leaders.

Action is urged upon heads of inst-intions for
delinquents.

Recreation tor Youth—in Housing

Recreation facilities are an essential part of
housing developments. Such developments must
be so planned as to be part of the total community
recreation pattern. Residents in projects should
participate in programs of recreation within and
without the developments. Diversified year-round
programs catering to the many interests and needs
should be' conducted in housing developments under
professionally trained leadership supplemented by
trained and supervised resident volunteers.

Action is urged upon housing authorities, public,

recreation departments, councils of local agencies,
and tenant councils.

Recreation tor Youth—in the Home
The family has an obligation to provide whole-
some recreation. Every child must have time free
from family chores and responsibilities—time avail-
able for recreation. Families should plan their
work so as to permit youth to participate in whole-
some recreation both in the home and in the com-

550

munity. Families therefore should support and en-
courage community recreation programs and
systems.

Action is urged on the part of parents and rec-
reation agencies.

Recreation tor Youth—in Industry
There should be a recreation program for all
industrial workers and their families. Recreation
in industry should stress recreation for the entire
family and should place particular emphasis on
recreation for the children of parents employed in
industry. The worker whose wife and children
are finding life enjoyable because of appropriate
opportunities'for investing their own leisure time

are apt to be satisfied and efficient workers.
Action should be taken by management and em—

ployee groups and public recreation agencies.

Recreation tor Youth—under
Commercial Auspices

All commercial recreation services and facilities
should be evaluated in terms of maintaining aihigh
standard and decent environment. Legislative con-
trol and'regulation are necessary as a safeguard
and as a public necessity. Wholesome and desir-
able commercial regulation should be encouraged

'and those with negative influence condemned and

regulated.
Action should be taken by commercial recrea-
tion operators and by community agencies.

Recreation tor Youth—in Churches
The church should do its part in providing ade-
quate recreation, cooperating with all agencies of

, the community and with a sense of responsibility

in relation to the whole matter of enriching life
through leisure and recreation. It should interpret
high standards of personal and social behavior in

recreation. It should also aid in providing train- '

ing opportunities for the development of intelli-
gent and inspiring leadership and should support
well conceived community recreation plans and
programs.

Action on the part of all religious agencies is
urged.

Recreation tor Youth—in RuralCommunities 

Recreation is a vital need in rural no less than
in urban communities. Opportunities should be
promoted for the utilization of the natural rural
environment in the development of rural programs.
Rural recreation programs should function through

RECREATION

J"

#21

i

mun-m: J. VOIT RUBBER CORP-

mutmc
mnnuu 1600 E. 25th Street, los Angeles II - 180 No. Wacker Drlve, Chicago 6

JANUARY 1947

 

   

   
 
     
     
   
     
   
   
   
     
       
     
        

DIAMOND

S U P E R R I N G E R
.
Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop

forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

existing rural community organizations and local
groups. In general, rural people should not be
segregated by age groups for recreation purposes.
Rural homes need to become centers of neighbor-
hood activities. Rural schools should become cen-
ters of recreation life and meeting places for rural
groups. Local recreation councils are advisable.

Action is urged upon agricultural agents, school
and county officials, rural organizations, parent-
teacher groups, and churches.

Recreation for Youth Through Radio. Motion
Pictures and Newspapers and Magazines

The radio and the motion picture and the popu-
lar press may become potent forces in the cultiva—
tion of good taste in recreation and a motivating
force for participation in wholesome activities. The
potentialities in this field have only begun to be
explored by students of all youth needs and by
recreation leaders. Concurring with the Panels on
these subjects, the recreation Panel urges exten-
sive study in this field looking to the formulation of

552

sound views and directions and the development
of constructive programs.

Action is urged upon the part of the. commercial
agencies involved, parent and educational organi-
zations, and recreation leaders.

****

Many other principles were enunciated by the
Panel and specific recommendations for action
were made on details directed toward implement—
ing recommendations already reported. They were
in the fields of planning, legislation, finance, con-
struction of areas and facilities, and training; also
upon community coordination and relationships
between private and public agencies. They are too
voluminous to report in the brief time allowed, but
will be set forth in detail in the published report.

Thus, it will be seen that the emphasis given by
this Panel is on the conservation and development
rather than the salvage of youth, and on the total
welfare needs of multiplied millions of young peo—
ple rather than solely upon the offender and the
delinquent.

It is the hope of the Panel that its recommenda-
tions for action will serve as a practical guide and
handbook in communities the nation over for those
people who understand the influence which recre—
ation has on the lives of young people, and who
want to do something constructively about it.

When all of the Panel reports were in, the con-

ference voted that a permanent committee be es-
tablished.

The conference will print in one volume the
recommendations for action contained in each one ‘
of the Panel reports issued. This volume, which
will contain “Summaries of Reports,” will be dis-
tributed without cost to all participants in the con-
ference and to individuals and organizations who
have expressed interest in the conference. Accord-
ing to the conference announcement any groups or
organizations interested in this volume may obtain
a copy by. writing to Executive Committee, Na-
tional Conference for the Prevention and Control
of Juvenile Delinquency, Department of Justice,
Washington 25, D. C.

The full reports of each of the Panels will be
published separately by the Government Printing
Office of the United States Government.

In the introduction to the V olmne of Summar-
ies of Reports of the National Conference for the
Prevention and Control of Juvenile Delinquency,
the following statement appears:

“I t is the responsibility now of every locality and

RECREATION

American Recreation,
Society

- HE ADMINISTRATIVE counCil and executive com-
mittee of the Society of Recreation Workers,
now the American Recreation Society, met in
. Washington, November 19,'Ig46 to take official
action on the mail balloting for officers and mem-
; bers of the executive committee and administrative
council, and on the change of name from Society of
Recreation Workers of America to American Rec—
,- reation Society. The new officers were introduced
It and the responsibility for the program of the so-
, ciety turned over to them at this meeting. The
new officers are:
Harold B. Meyer, president
Arthur E. Genter, first vice—president
l George T. Sargisson, second vice‘president
‘ Wayne C. Sommer, secretary
Ralph Hileman, treasurer
The members of the executive committee are the
officers; the immediate past president—Milo F.
Christiansen; Howard Braucher, National Recre-
ation Association; and three members.at large

elected by the administrative council at this meet—
ing, Howard C. Beresford, Oka Hester, Miss
Vivian 0. Wills.

It was announced also that the membership
voted to change the, name to American Recreation
Society by 270 to 21. The change of name was
effective as of November 7, the date when the
necesssary legal formalities were completed.

every individual in every locality, having concern
for their young people, to carry the work on with
the fullest degree of imagination and initiative.

“It is a problem of the modern world that while
it is necessary and useful to formulate plans and
programs on a nation-wide basis, the problem
always remains to get such program translated
into action at the community level where all gov-
ernment has its Final impact and where all action
must, in the last analysis, be taken.

“It has been emphasized and re—emphasized that
the solution to the juvenile problem lies in the
home and schools and local institutions of this
country. It is only by action in these areas that
results can be achieved.

“The National Conference hands on to the com-
munities of the country, and the individuals in
those communities, suggestions and recommenda-
tions, based on the best views obtainable at the

IANUARY 1947

There are many hours of

 
 
 
   
     

W301“)!  ‘ i a

1.. D '
oaegnzinns

 smgumgn a Constructive
" D  Amusement
=    in these
. ': 5' i5f:-’t:§‘.m:;‘4fsn \ - a.

" Self-HelpH

Simplified Drawing .......................... ..$1.50
Working in Leather .......................... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Wood Working .... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Clay Modeling ...... .. 1.00
Essentials of Creative Design .......... .. 1.00
Simplified Art Anatomy .................. .. 1.00
Figure Drawing Without a Model .... .. 1.00
The Secrets of Cartooning .............. .. 1.00
The Art of Doing Portraits .............. .. 1.00
Oil Painting .................................... .. 1.00 .
Water Color Pointing ...................... .. 1.00
Pastel Painting ................................ .. 1.00
Landscape Pointing ........................ .. 1.00
Drawing for Children ...................... .. 1.00
Arts 6' Crafts for Children .............. .. 1.00

Practical Home Decorating .............. .. 1.00

New Titles Constantly Being Added
Send for Complete List of
Adults' and Children’s Art Books

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS
80 East I lth St.. New York 3. NY.

national level, in the form of reports whose recom—
mendations for action are contained in this volume.
It is now the duty of the men and women, wher-
ever, or however they may be living, and the

‘ young people themselves, to adapt these recom—
mendations to their own local situations and to
achieve results which can be considered a step to-
ward the ameliorization of the disastrous condi-
tions which, in too many places, confront Ameri-
can communities.”

 

Appointment .at the Rink +
(Continued from page 524)

are themselves skaters and find that keeping an eye
on other small fry is not an unpleasant part of
skating with their own son or daughter. Two
mothers or dads are officially “on duty” every
afternoon for one hour each.

Keynote—Cooperation
The youngsters, too, have done their share to

553

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Basev
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation. .
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
mark of. quality .and unvnrying
performance-

and I- IL. I
.1 Illlllll plfnllol lilo-II

C‘NCINNAII I4. OHIO. u. S. A.

 

make this program—and indeed the whole skating
program for Montclair——-successful. The assistant
recreation director sends a letter to all the cooper-
ating schools at the beginning of the skating sea-
son. In it she appeals to the young skaters to keep
off the ice until they are given formal notice that it
is ready and, once the rinks are oflicially open, to
help police the ice. The letter is read at assembly
by the school principal. It is a matter of record
that the children take the appeal to heart. For the
ice is not used too soon and the small obstacles
that are likely to accumulate through carelessness
and to present hazards to skaters and work for the
“ice-makers” are conspicuously absent.

The boys and girls who use the rinks feel that
this is their ice and any irresponsible person who
tends to mess it up is promptly and efficiently dis-
ciplined by a jury of his peers. No small part in
this assumption of responsibility is played by a
letter of appreciation sent at the end of the season
to the youngsters through their schools.

This program is an outstanding example of what
can be done through intelligent cooperation by
many community agencies for the good of the

554

whole community. N 0 one group could, by itself,
have provided this extra and greatly needed facil-
ity. But when the recreation department, the park
department, the fire department, the P.T.A., the
schools and the children worked together an im-
possibility became an accomplished fact with no
great hardship to any one.

Tips on Ice Skating Areas

ITE—The rink should be level and located as
8 near as possible to at least a two inch water
supply, although a three inch fire hydrant is pre-
ferred. The soil should be loam or clay. Do not
try to flood a sand or gravel area. Areas should be
flooded when the ground is sufficiently frozen to
retain the water, and during below freezing
weather. Do not try to have a rink over a sewer
or central heat line because the heat will thaw, in
time, any frost or ice in the ground above it.

Construction and Flooding—If you do not have
a natural pond, lake, sunken area, or a surfaced
area with curbs, the easiest way to construct a
skating rink is to plow three furrows all around
the area to be flooded. Throw the plowed dirt in
a berm on the inside of the furrows. The ditch left
outside the berm will catch any seepage from the

rink. Tamp the bank, and when the ground is suf---

ficiently frozen, spray and freeze the bank'thorough-
1y, then flood the area lightly, about one inch of
water at a time, until four to six inches of solid ice
are built up.

If solid ice is obtained, it will remain most of the
season in spite of thaws.

Caution—Do not flood too soonu—If the ground
is not sufficiently frozen, the water will seep away,
leaving “shell ice” which must be dug out and
hauled away before re-Hooding.

Do not put too much water in ,at one time—For
the first flooding do not put more than one inch of
water in, even if the area is not entirely covered.
Water seeks its own level, and subsequent flood-
ings will cover the entire area. Allow each Hood-
ing to freeze solidly before giving it another flood-

mg.

Do not try to flood over snow. or soft “snow ice”
will result. Snow and all ice cut by the skaters
must be removed or brushed off before re-Hooding.

Do not try to build a bank of snow. ashes or
refuse—Banks of this type will wash out in a thaw.

RECREATION

'\

'\

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

In the photograph at the left, Pat Chambers. twice National
Archery Champion and now a member of the -Ben Pearson staff.
demonstrates the relaxed method of showing to Joe Robinson. pro-
fessional golfer. This photograph was taken during an exhibition
of archery vs. golf given by Pat and Joe on a standard golf course.
The drawing at the right demonstrates Pat's method of holding the
n bow. If you will lean against a wall, with your arm crooked slightly
at the elbow, you will disc0ver that you can relax your arm muscles

and hold yourself quite camfortably. This is the basis for the
relaxed archery technique.

 

 

ARCHERY IS THE RELAXATION SPORT

A

Archers as a group are famous for steady nerves
and normal blood pressure. For archery is a true

recreation—it is the relaxation sport. Tension
and archery do not go together. The typical
archer shoots for recreation. He shoots a few
rounds at noon, or in the afternoon, and has
more energy at the end of his pracrice than at the
beginning. The relaxed method of shooting is
now the accepted technique —— and holds most
national records.

This means that archery classes and clubs are
truly recreational'in character. There is a place
in your program for archery.

Archery has a strong, universal appeal.
Archery is for all ages, both sexes, for the healthy

and the infirm, the robust and the recluse.

JANUARY 1947

Archery is a proved builder of co-ordination,
muscle, vision, perfect posture, and steady nerves.

And, best of all, archery is true recreation.

You will find a Ben Pearson dealer near you,

and you will be astonished at the beauty and

'inexpensiveness of the archery tackle he displays.

Look him up soon. And meanwhile, for help in
forming an archery club, archery class, or
installing an archery range, write Ben‘ Pearson.
We maintain an advisory service especially for

that purpose.

    

PINE BLUFF. ARKANSAS

Samuel L. Smedley

AMUEL L. SMEDLEY for many years gave most
S unusual leadership in the park and recreation
movement in that part of Pennsylvania in which
he had his home. He understood very fully the
need for education of the community as to the
value of parks, and he wanted to use his influence
fully to help build the park movement in his part

of the world. He was happy to attend park and -

recreation meetings and to listen to the experiences
of other communities.

In 1942 Mr. Smedley, then president of the
Delaware County Park and Recreation Board, was
given the Chester Kiwanis Club Service Award
medal for his outstanding work in the establish-
ment of public parks and playgrounds in Dela-
ware County. Mention was made that it was
through the guidance of Mr. Smedley that the
Park Board was started in 1932 and in later years
enlarged to the Park and Recreation Board. He
was also instrumental in starting “Camp Sun-

shine” for underprivileged children, which was
affiliated with the Chester Boys’ Club.

Mr. Smedley is one of the few men who have
had a park memorial project named for him while
still living. The ‘eighty-acre Samuel L. Smedley
Park was named in his honor.

He was president of the Pennsylvania Forestry
Association, was keenly interested in trout fishing,
and was one of the discoverers of the Pocono
Mountains as a resort country. "

Mr. Smedley was one of those who recognized
the value of national organization in the recreation
field and who gave support to the National Recre-
ation Association.

 

World at Play

(Continued from page 546)

brary supplied the books (the age range ran from
preschool to junior high) and its librarians cooper-

ated fully in the undertaking. ‘ The library is open -

from 9 A.‘M. to I P. M. each Monday through Fri-
day for six summer weeks. At 10 on Thursdays
and Fridays youngsters in the six-to-ten group
flock to a storytelling hour. The librarian in charge
is school librarian in the winter.

Archery Note—Allentown, Pennsylvania’s
Recreation Department had what amounted to a
brain wave when it set up its summer archery
range. Adults and youngsters alike used the range
frequently. Many tournaments were played there.
But the thing that pleased most people most often,
to judge by their overheard comments, was the
location of the range—-—very near a picnic grove.
The archers, having spent a morning at the butts,
could step across the way for a picnic lunch and a
lazy rest then back again for another go at the
targets.

Renaissance in St. Louis
(Continued from page 539)

For the first time in the city’s history, booklets
and pamphlets' on recreation and recreation facili-
ties have been printed and distributed. Member~
ship cards are now the proud possession of the
children,,young people and adults of the city.
Radio programs have been broadcast from the
city’s community centers; the city’s radio station
frequently requests that the recreation department
put on programs.

Extreme care is being taken to ensure that the
recreation programs appeal to the individual tastes

Make Your. Floors Pay DIVIDENDS!

Be able to con-
vert and re-con-

- vert from ice-
events (hockey.
showsI etc.) to
athletic and other
events with this ALL-
PURPOSE PERMANENT
FLOOR.

BEVINGTON-WILLIAMS, INC.

Consulting Engineers

   
  

For Area‘s, Outdoor
Rinks, Field Houses,
Auditoriums, etc.
U. S. Patent
No. 1,917,634

THE CARPENTER lCE-PLANER'
IS NOW AVAILABLE.

730 INDIANA PYTHIAN BUILDING
INDIANAPOLIS. IND.

E. R. CARPENTER, Potentee, 1560 Ansel Rd. No. 9, Cleveland. Ohio

556

RECREATION

\i

 

PLAY THE ~    _~;  

 

o

VOLLEY BALI.

BASKETBALL

SPORTING GOODS CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A Wilson & Co. Inc. Subsidiary)

"6'3"
1/ “ 5’”
e “I,
I Q

I

6

 
 

LB'IO

BASKETBALL

r.

 

Shelby M. Harrison
To Retire

NNOUNCEMENT has been made that Shelby M.

Harrison, general director of the Russell
’ Sage Foundation, will retire on July I, 1947.

Mr. Harrison served for a time on the staff of
the Boys’ Clubs of America. In 1912 he became
director of the Department of Surveys and Ex—
hibits of the Russell Sage Foundation and in this
capacity worked very closely with the National

Recreation Association. He became vice-general _

director of the Russell Sage Foundation in 1924
and since 1931 has been general director. Mr.
Harrison has always been most understanding of
the national recreation movement, and it has meant
a great deal to the National Recreation Associa—
tion to have a man of Mr. Harrison’s spirit and
ability in this position of outstanding leadership in
community undertakings.

The National Recreation Association owes much
to the backing and support given to it in the early
days by the Russell Sage Foundation under the
leadership of its then director, John M. Glenn, and
also to the continued support of Shelby M. Harri—
- son in the days since Mr. Glenn’s retirement.

of each neighborhood. The office staff in St. .Louis
has reached the conclusion that the success of any
recreation program depends upon its appeal to the
neighborhood it is intended to serve. It is under-
‘ stood, too, that the office staff cannot possibly set
up a suitable program without working on the
scene at the community center and in conjunction
with local groups. For that reason, advisory com-
mittees have been organized at each community
center. They are composed of representatives of
such neighborhood groups as churches, business—
men’s clubs and the like. It is the purpose of
these committees to assist the center staff in for-
mulating a program suited to the tastes and needs
of the community. These committees also serve,
of course, to enhance public interest in the recrea—
tion program by giving the citizens an oppor-
tunity to participate actively.

So, St. Louis, without a great amount of urging,
made great strides in recreation in the past. Now,
under the pressure of a real publicity campaign,
powered by the energetic, ambitious, capable rec-
reation staff, St. Louis has marshalled its forces
to meet the Atomic Age with atomic expansion
and a modern, up—to-date program, planned and

558

carried out by a recreation staff, competent and
eager to meet any challenge. The familiar figure
of St. Louis astride his charger has changed
slightly as far as recreation is concerned. The
armored figure has exchanged his spear for an
atom bomb and his steed for a rocketship. St.
Louis is determined to attain its rightful place at
the top of the list as a grand place to play—for
the realization of a richer and fuller life.
Hang on—St. Louis is on its way!

The Recreationist—
An Interpretation

RECREATIONIST is a leader or director of the
leisure time, voluntary activities 'pe'ople en—
gage in, an off-the-job-living counselor.

The recreationist works with—never for-—-indi-
viduals, groups or masses of people of all ages in
their free time living, either active or passive. ‘

A recreationist is neither a teacher nor a social
worker. The recreationist’s concern is not pri—
marily subject matter on the one hand or the
guidance and adjustment of the individual to
society on— the other.

The recreationist’s program is not subject-mat-
ter-centered as is the teacher’s or individual-cen-
tered as - is the program of the social worker.
Rather his program is person—in-activity-centered.
It is concerned with the informal education that
goes on in activities voluntarily chosen in leisure
time.

The recreationist is a leader not because of posi-

tion in a system nor because of specialized knowl—

edge of a subject, but rather because of the influ—
ence of the quality of life he lives as- foremost
companion in recreation experiences.

The recreationist’s leadership stems from his

' ability and skills in activities in which the partici—

pant is interested and in organization activities
plus an understanding and use of the human rela-
tions involved in these activities for opening up
new horizons. '

The recreationist is as much concerned with the
outlooks and insights, the attitudes and apprecia—A
tions and the means of control that are learned in“
voluntary activity as he is with any particular skillf‘
that may be learned.

The recreationist sets up the kind of situation
for free time pursuits that makes it possible for the
individual to survive and have fun as a respected

RECREATION\

  
    
 
    
 
   
   
  
   
 
  

i ee citizen, rather than to be able to survive under
tyranny. Regimentation is just the opposite of
:creation. Dictatorship is the opposite of de-
locracy.

The recreationist may be found in all types of
gencies in the field of recreation—boys’ and girls’
rork agencies, camps, social settlements, libraries,
laygrounds, community centers, museums; and
1 other, but related fields of welfare such as edu-
ation, health, religion, planning, and social service.
I The recreationist uses all types of activity also—-
eading, creative literary expression, music and
rt, dancing and rhythmics, dramatics and pag—
antry, arts and crafts, games and sports, social
ecreation, camping and out—of—door living.

The recreationist’s professional training includes
variety of these activity skills, social group work
echniques, administration and management, com—
unity organization and all the subdivisions
'isually found under these heads.

Recreation along with other human services such
as education and religion, makes its contribution
:o welfare by helping people find meaning, fun, and
balance in living; by preventing man from becom-
ing a mechanical robot, a leisure time illiterate,
Spiritually bankrupt, without roots, interests or
convictions. Fullness of life through leisure—that
is the contribution, the business, the field of rec-

reation. That is the job of the recreationist.——~
IValtcr L. Stone.

Fiestas in Kansas City
(Cowtinued from page 527)

follows the saying of the Litany each evening. The
Pinate is a large oval-shaped package, beautifully
decorated, filled with sweets, nuts, and fruit, and
suspended from the ceiling. Those taking part are
blindfolded, each person taking his turn. Each is
given a pole and after being turned around several
times proceeds to strike at the swinging Pinate.
Each participant has three tries. When the Pinate
is finally broken there is a wild scramble for its
contents.

Early in August of each year the Church of Our
Lady of Guadalupe sponsors its own fiesta. Then
everyday cares are forgotten. Guadalupe Center,
the Mexican colony’s artistically built community
house, and the grounds which surround it take on
an air of carnival. The whole neighborhood joins
hands in merrymaking. i

The celebration lasts four days. Friends come
from nearby cities to join in the festivities. Enter-

IANUARY 1947

Maker of America's First Standard

“TRAMPOLINE

now offers—immediately available—

NISSEN MODEL 5000—T

O The popular original Nissen Trampoline improved
by design and test and proved by use for more than
I0 years in gymsI the armed forces and at pools.
camps, playgrounds and beaches.

Easily Folded—Moved—Made with Sturdy
Tubular Steel and Durable. Heavy Canvas

Price Now 5209-00 Complete
FOB, Cedar Rapids. Iowa
Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

tainers from near and far add their bits to the
gaiety.

A special stage resembling the patio of an haci-
enda is set up out—of—doors. Here palm trees and
colorful lanterns are a backdrop for native dances
and songs. Here all those taking part in the pro-
gram, dressed in gay native costume, wait their
turn to entertain.

Here and there on the grounds are decorated
booths—red, yellow, green. You can eat at them
the highly seasoned Mexican dishes—enchiladas,
tacos, tostados, tamales—-—and cool your burning
palate with a cup of refreshing raspa. Other booths
display native handwork or invite you to “try your
luck”—for what is a fiesta without a game or two
of chance?

At the Fiesta of Our Lady of Guadalupe there
is warmth and color, eating and drinking and
laughter. Thousands of Kansas Citians come each
year’to enjoy the happy event.

It has been rightly said “to know a people, one
must know something about their feasts and festi-
vals.” Mexico is rich in these.

559

A Recreation Club for the
Aged

By SARA M. MCCAULLEY

Executive Director, Colony House. Inc.

Brooklyn. New York

HE EVER INCREASING proportion of older peo-

ple in our communities makes it imperative for
group work and recreation agencies' to consider
their needs in planning the total program. The
more mature members of our community must be
helped to feel useful and needed once more. They
have been on the scrap heap too long. The coming
years represent a broad opportunity and challenge
to recreation agencies. They must and will accept
the challenge.

Colony House, a settlement located in the larg-
est rooming house district in New York City, set
out to see what the response. of these older com-
munity members would be to a program geared
specifically to them.

In order to secure the nucleus for its program,
the support of the local Welfare Center of the De-
partment of Welfare was solicited. The Silk
Screen Club of Colony House c00perated in print-
ing invitations to a holiday tea. The investigators
-of the Welfare Center distributed these invitations
to their clients who were receiving old age assist-
.ance. The date for the tea was set far enough in
advance to provide time for these invitations to be
distributed and the peOple who received them time
to decide whether or not they would accept.

There were 45 men and women at the tea. Many
-of them mistrusted the motives of Colony House
in sponsoring the meeting. One asked if this were
'the beginning of some effort to institutionalize
-oldsters. Another said, “No one really cares about
us.” One said that this was “the first time in five
,years that I have worn a hat to go out.” One
commented that this was “more fun than sitting
-at the railroad station with a roll in a paper bag
for lunch in order to be near people.” The tea
over, these 45 old people decided to form a club.

They named it the Happiness Club. They dej
-cided that their special song should be Happy
Days Are Here A gain, and to meet twice a month.
The Director of Colony House acted as club ad-
'visor. First meetings were given over to assuring
the members of the interest and sincerity of the
staff and board of Colony House. There is now
an average attendance of 40-50 members. Member-

$60

ship is not limited to recipients of public assist
ance. 'Many bring their friends.

One monthly meeting is given over to game
folk dancing, crafts, music and group singing. Th
second meeting is a birthday party for all thos
whose birthdays come in the month. The party i
sponsored by amember of the board whose birth
day comes in the same month. Birthday cards ar
brought or sent by the individual members to th
guest or guests of honor for the month. There i
a birthday cake at each party.

The highlight for the summer season was a bu
trip and an all-day picnic to Valley Stream State!
Park made possible through the cooperation oil
the American Red Cross. .

The club now has plans for group projects. The!
women plan to knit foot covers for servicemen in-:
convalescent homes. The men will make toys for:
the nursery tot‘s.

The few hours of friendliness and cheer broughtE
into the otherwise drab existence of many people:
who are lonely and without friends and relatives
are reflected in their many “God Bless You’s” at:
the close of each meeting.

The Local 4-H Club Leader

A. B. Graham, U.S.D.A., Retired, makes the:
following statements regarding a leader:
The boss drives his men; the leader coaches:
them.
The boss depends upon authority; the leader'
on good will.
The boss inspires fear; the leader inspires en--
thusiasm.
The boss says “I”; the leader says “We.”
The boss assigns the tasks; the leader sets the7
pace. '
The boss says, “Get here on time”; the leader
gets there ahead of time.
The boss fixes the blame for the breakdown;
the leader fixes the breakdown. 1
The boss knows how it is done; the leader
shows how.
The boss makes work a drudgery; the leader
makes it a game.
The boss says, "Go"; the leader says, “Let’s go.”.
The voluntary leaders are very necessary an%
important for the success of the local 4-H Club.—
From the revised October, 1942 issue of the
W ashington’s 4-H Club Leader’s Handbook, pub-
lished by the Extension Service, State College of
Washington, Pullman, Washington. .

H

RECREATION '

.1 The Spell of Music

‘ T A CHILDREN’S CONCERT, given by the Austin,
:1 Texas, Symphony Orchestra, the conductor
h ; uested that the children close their eyes during
. e playing of Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony
1‘ (1 follow with their imaginations the course of
e music. The children wrote down their mental
ictures and sent them to the Recreation Depart-
nt. Here are some of the results.

m
h
i

“Sunday when I closed my eyes I could see

u rownies. Brownies instead of fairies because a
l,iry is light, dainty and delicate and the music

‘ id not sound that way at all. It was large and
at reminds me of brownies. The brownies seemed
. be dancing around, softly at first, then getting

- uder and louder, dancing harder, 'harder and

D arder. Suddenly a clash of thunder and lightning,

I

(1 suddenly, very suddenly, they would scamper
way into their homes. Then softly, slowly, cau-

rI iously they would peer out. Surely there was

B!
a

othing harmful to bother them now, so they
. ould come out and begin dancing again. The
lame theme would be played over and over and
he same thing would come to my mind. Some-
imes they would stop and rest and thunder would

I- ound and they would dash away, sometimes com-

ng out slowly and other times they were in a

1‘ urry to get out again. Finally they are dancing

It
a

I?

l

t

f.

.u

I
i

: d, as suddenly as before, the thunder comes.
is time they do not reach cover fast enough and
e re destroyed, never to dance that dance again.”

“The first movement of Schubert’s Unfinished

ymphony reminds me of a woodland scene with
gnomes playing a game of chase. This happened
when the main tune was played by different sec-
tions of the orchestra. I could hear the forest
noises constantly except during the main theme.
The game of chase reached its high points when
the orchestra played loudest and fastest.”

“The Unfinished Sympathy by Bach (sic.) sug-
gested to me ‘a seagull fighting through a storm.’ ”
“I could imagine myself, slowly walking along a
lonely country road in England. The road was
leading up to an ancient castle, and I could see the
Howers of spring in full bloom. As I came closer

' to the castle, a weird feeling came over me, and I
h seemed to relive the ancient days of the past, and
. I seemed to be able to visualize all of the battles,

 

it

' I

I

turmoils and quarrels that had taken place in the
castle. That is the picture I drew from hearing
the composition.”

‘ JANUARY 1947

- 35ml TRUPHIES 8:. AWARDS

For All Maior Sports

     
  

BEAUTIFUL
PRIZE CUP

New design with
graceful, classic
lines. Lustrous in
golden Sun-Ray
finish. Mounted on
polished, ebony-
like base. Stands
13” high. No. 235,

 
 
   
   
 
        
 
    

 
 

BOWLING BALI. CHARM

And other quality,
individual prizes
and awards for
every major sport

         

  

each . . . . ..$14.50 are available.
Write Dept. Rfor Free Illustrated Catalog
EDWIN W. LANE Co.

32 W. RANDOLPH STREET CHICAGO 1. UL.

  
 

“At the playing of the first movement of Schu-
bert’s Unhnished Symphony I am reminded of a
dimly lighted scene beside a stream very early in
the morning, as the stars go in and the sun comes
up. Some wood sprite ballet dancers come out
and dance, their dance being the recurring theme.

“There is a lull that usually precedes a storm.
Then the storm breaks with full force, causing the
wood sprites to flee. There is thunder, lightning
and rain. Presently, as the storm dies down, the
sprites return and begin a game of chase.

“As the game progresses broad daylight comes.
The sprites are frightened and run off, terrified—
abruptly ending their dance-like game.”

“This is.what I pictured in my mind when I
listened to the Unfinished Symphony as you played
it Sunday afternoon.

“The eastern sky tinged with pink, and light
fluffy'clouds floated by. The sun rose majestically
on a troop of cavalry riding slowly across the val-
ley. On the opposite side of the valley a similar
troop rode forward to meet them. The hoofbeats
grew louder as the troops closed in on each other.
Then came the command to attack. The men began
to fight savagely and wildly. For hours the fight-
ing continued. Then, as suddenly as it began, the
battle ended and the troops withdrew to their
camps. Dusk began to fall. Night sentries were
put on duty. Now and then small battles were
waged, but were soon ended. All night long the
sentries guarded their certain stations. Then came
the dawn of the second day. The troops had been
waiting restlessly all through the night and now
they charged with renewed vigor. Then followed
the bloodiest and hardest fought battle of the
century. Finally the elated victors chased their
weary and defeated foe around a bend in the valley
into the distance.”

561

State Recreation
News Notes

THE CONNECTICUT State Highway Department
has developed near Marlborough, Connecticut,
a fishing area for crippled war veterans. This area
is adjacent to the Black Ledge River on Route 2,
only about 500 feet from the new Black Ledge
picnic area which the department has also de—
veloped. The new fishing spot will be restricted
to the use of crippled veterans, and will be pro—
vided with benches on the stream banks and other
facilities for the comfort of the users. The near-
ness of the picnic area to the fishing spot should
provide many happy hours for veterans and their
families.

Working through the Extension Division of the
University of Alabama, Dr. T. Earle Johnson,
head of the Department of Speech and Dramatics
of the College of Arts and Sciences, with his staff
of six, provide consultant service in dramatics to
high schools throughout the State of Alabama.

Dr. Theodore Kratt, Dean of the' School of
Music, at the University of Oregon has done much

to encourage music appreciation throughout that _

state. In addition to conducting many music ap-
preciation programs at Portland, he has developed
a male chorus, a women’s choral group and a
junior symphony in the town of Eugene where the
University is located, and he has helped many
other communities through personal visits to or-
ganize music appreciation programs and singing
festivals. '

The Illinois General Assembly appropriated
$3,000,000 last year for a state-wide lake system.
Plans are now being developed for the construc-
tion of at least 16 conservation lakes in this system
to provide for the preservation of wildlife, aid to
flood and drouth control, and recreation facilities.

Three federal recreation areas embracing a total
of 25,391 acres have been turned over to the Mis—
souri State Park System. These tracts originally
had been set up by the National Park Service. The
only condition imposed by the federal government
is that the areas continue to be operated for rec-
reation and park purposes.

The Extension Service of the University of
Michigan has announced the addition of William

562

.—

G. Robinson to the staff of the Experimental Pr
gram in Adult Education as Assistant in Comm
nity Organization. Mr. Robinson is available 0
request to communities in Michigan for consult
tion and advice in connection with a number a
community problems including community recr
ation and adult education.

Mrs. Ruth Radir, Assistant State 4—H Clu
Agent in Washington, who specializes in healt
and recreation], is doing leader training work i
recreation in various counties in that state. She '
holding a series of meetings with farm men an
women, the volunteer leaders of the 4-H club
These groups often include older club youth an
leaders of other youth organizations such as t
Juvenile Grange, Boy and Girl Scouts, and Cam
fire Girls. Emphasis in all of these meetings
on the development of leadership ability for u I
with small club groups at county camps and .
picnics and rallies. '

In response to specific questions the New Yor
State Department of Audit and Control has give '
its opinion that a recreation project of a New Yor '
town or village may receive state aid through th 
New York State Youth Commission, if the pro jec
is operated jointly by the town or village and 
school district pursuant to Article I3 of the Gen “
eral Municipal Law. The. department suggests tha
in the event of such operation liability insuranc '
should cover both the town or village and a"
school district. . I

(The complete text of the opinion appears in th
October, 1946, issue of Town Clerks Topics, pub ‘
lished by the Association of Towns, Hotel Te '
Eyck, Albany, New York.)

The Association of the State Foresters, at their
annual convention in Centre Lovell, Maine, last
October, elected the following OH‘ICCI‘SI

Ralph F. Wilcox, Indiana, president;  M.l
Stauffer, Alabama, vice-president ; Raymond E..
Rendall, Maine, secretary-treasurer; R. Lynni
Emerick, Pennsylvania, and T. S. Goodyear,,
Washington, members of the executive committee.
Outgoing officers were Mr. Goodyear, president; ;
J. F. Taylor, Maryland, vice-president ; George  .
White, Missouri, secretary-treasurer; Perry HIE:
Merrill, Vermont, and Fred H. Lang, Arkansas,
members of the executive committee.

“The Texas Highway Department operated, in

RECREATION‘

 

the summer of 1946, four border information sta—
tions at which tourists visiting the state received a

free copy of the Texas highway map, a list of
tourist’s courts, and a list of state parks.

Sixty 'Years of Neigh-

borhood Centers

N OCTOBER 28, 1946 the University Settle-

ment of New York City celebrated its 60th
year by a special dinner in which the National
Federation of Settlements united also.

The University Settlement had a very consid-
erable part in deve10ping other community work
of great value in New York City and many lead-
ers in the City and in the nation have had a part
in the work of the University Settlement through
the years.

The municipal recreation center movement owes
much to the leadership of David Blaustein, Lillian
Wald, Gaylord White, Mary K. Simkhovitch,
Robert Woods, Jane Addams, Mary E. Mc-
Dowell, Graham Taylor, Georg; A. Bellamy, Eva
W. White and other settlement leaders.

Folk Camp

(Continued from page 541)

costume down to the handmade leis and flowers in
the hair. Another new innovation and a success-
ful one, was the Russian dinner which was, per-
haps, the most colorful of all. Of course, no camp
would be complete without the lavish Swedish
smorgasbord with all its many colors and dishes.
The chief cook, veteran of all IO camps, and her
crew of four farm women swung easily from Kot-
bollar to sirniki. The opening night dinner, com-
plete with candles and Latin music, was Mexican
and started camp off on a gay note. Folk dancers
use up lots of energy and the Swiss, American and
Italian snacks near midnight were happily wel-
comed by the exhausted campers. Truly good food
at the right time is as much an aid to good fellow-
ship as the right song on the right occasion.

Results

Those who have long since decided that folk
activities are “tops” in recreation value, in teach-
ing good fellowship and good will, in teaching toler-
ance and cooperation, will not be surprised to
know that during the past three camps, we have
felt free to invite Negroes to join us in our group,
though it took several years to arrive at that point.

JANUARY 1947

' IIA VE you saw fOR Til/5 not: soon”?

    

JUST OFF THE PRESSuvthis impor-
tant booklet, chuck fuii of vaiuobio

facts on getting your High School
Boxing Program underway is your:
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Waish, it clears up numerous
misCOnceptians about boxing—espo-
cialiy vaiuobie to newcomers in the
program.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC. WIS.

Maker: of NATIONAL Gym Mats,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

 

 

We have made a practice in recent years of sitting
down to evaluate just how important the work of
recreation leaders can be in club work and in teach-
ing citizenship. It has been very gratifying to note
the change in attitude sometimes wrought by the
experiences at camp.

It is not enough to come to such a gathering for
pure fun—though, as always, that plays a major
part; nor is it enough to learn some new tech-
inques of leadership, or add a new series of songs
and dances and crafts to one’s repertoire. To feel
genuine satisfaction in return for the energy spent
in making such a camp possible, it is necessary to
know that somewhere in the group a prejudice was
mellowed, a conviction formed, or an understand-
ing created, and that somehow you’ve contributed
a little to making this sad world a healthier and
happier place in which to live.

A New-Old Game

(Continued from page 521)
ing of ten double squares marked with arrows
giving the directions of the move. Each player

has a Pharaoh and four Egyptian pegs. He moves
all these pieces in accordance with the throw of

the dice. The winner must show skill in maneuver-
ing the live pieces for maximum protection to his
own pieces and maximum peril to his opponents.
The Pharaohs have special privileges. They may
pass all pegs and move in and out of the Senet

row. Captured Pharaohs count 25 points. Cap-

tured pegs count IO. If all the opponent’s pegs are
captured without loss of any of the winner 5 pegs.

the score is doubled.

Launching

The new-old game had a very special send-off
as its introduction to the world. It was launched

563

in the Egyptian room of the Metropolitan Museum '

of Art. Here were set up in show cases ancient
Senet boards and pieces. Here were wall paintings
from tombs built 5,000 years ago showing Nile
dwellers playing the game. And here very modern
men and women using a modern board and modern

pieces sat down to play at Senet and in so doing
to touch, in a measure, the lives and interests of

those painted players on the walls. For anyone
with a sense of the timelessness of life there must
have been special pleasure in that experience—
special pleasure and a quality almost like awe at
the realization of how little men differ in their fun-
damental interests and needs. For the need to re—
create satisfaction in living through relaxation and
good company is a general need to man, not limited
to one time or one country.

Preschoolers

(Continued from page 528)

fortable sofas and chairs and a few tables. Mothers
volunteer to assist during any absences of the
directors.

The Christmas party is usually the most success—
ful. Last year’s party turned out to be a riot when
Santa’s pillow fell, but few children lost faith in
the character. He appeared in the midst of sing—
ing around the Christmas tree. His bells on wrist
and ankles were heard before he approached the
door. Several of the youngsters were frightened
until he shook hands with a few of them and began
to distribute gifts and candy to them. The candy
was bought by the department and the books and
games were donated by a local printing concern.

The program for the Halloween party includes
an extended play period, cutouts of witches and
Jack-o’-lanterns. It concludes with a parade of

real pumpkin lanterns and the distribution of Hal-
loween favors and candy.

Another holiday which allows for celebration is

Valentine’s Day, with appropriate cutouts and
stories for the occasion. Children help to make a
Valentine box from which comes a small valentine
for each child before he goes home.

Stories for story hour are selected by the di-
rector of the children’s library. One day a week,

a half hour is set aside for the children to check
out books on a personal card. Books most popular

include Sniff: Snapp and Snurr and the Nico-
demus series. Another favorite is The Little
Engine That Could.

r

564

The drawing period also includes cutting, clay
modeling, finger painting, and spatter painting. _'
Youngsters are encouraged to express their inter- :
pretation of the stories on paper. Occasionally the
children are given simple mimeograph stencils t0 .
color and cut out. Children bring aprons from ‘
home to wear whenever clay modeling or finger ‘
painting is on the program.

During the free play period the children line up i
to help themselves to a great selection of toys,
especially constructed to develop the imagination ‘
and teach coordination. Equipment of this type
was at first very limited, consisting of a few toys
constructed by the W.P.A. workers. Now the
children may choose from numerous well-con—
structed toys which include such famous makes as-
Hogate and Playskools. The favorite table 'toy
enjoyed by the children is one of the Judy puzzles.
The children delight in taking the puzzles apart
and seeing the colors and pieces take shape again.
Contrary to the belief that a child this age lacks
patience, the children will stand in line the whole
play period to be’awarded two swings on the ever
popular rocking horse. Whenever a new toy is
added to the collection, a demonstration is pre-
sented to give theproper use and care of the
article. We discovered that this was necessary
after one of the four-year-olds caught her index
finger in the hole of a Nok—out—bench. These
demonstrations are repeated as the memory span-
of a preschool child is short and care of other peo—
ples’ property must be stressed.

At all times children are taught the small cour—
tesies which are so important in group participa—
tion. Many of these principles are patterned after

Munro Leaf’s book Manners Can Be Fun which
is introduced during story hour once a month.

Inter-civic Club Recreation Jamboree
(Continued from page 544)
room and maintain it throughout the evening. An
equipment cage attendant should be on hand to '
furnish towel and soap and other equipment to all
who desire it. The swimming pool should have an
attendant ready at all times for those who enjoy a
short swim. A special committee should be on
hand early in the evening near the entrance to
make everyone welcome, and to show them where
to find the various competitive areas. Quiet rooms
should be set aside for games like checkers, crib-

bage, and bridge, well away from the noise and
confusion of the noisier activities.

RECREATION ‘

 

Special Features of the Program

’A buffet luncheon can be served at the conclu-
sion of the volley ball competition. Tables that
have been used for bridge, cribbage, checkers, and
table tennis can be rearranged in “night-club”
order. Special program stunts or features can be
worked in briefly during the luncheon, but care
should be exercised not to have too much in the
way of entertainment, since the evening will be
long. The announcer should utilize this time in
announcing the champions and giving other com-
ments of interest. Comic or humorous prizes might
be considered at this time. Group singing lends
itself perfectly to the remaining minutes, while
older men start for home and the younger set
lingers on. Barber shop harmony will predominate
and create a perfect ending to an interesting and
different program for your community.

Conclusion

The director who is willing to try out this plan
will find enough work connected with it to keep
him busy for two days, but every minute of it will
pay big dividends in community appreciation of
your program, future cooperation and good will,
and genuine mental hygiene and relaxation for a
large cross section of your community which needs
it most. It is a project well worth the effort. The
aftermath of the winter recreation Jamboree de-
scribed here might well be a spring or summer
golf and horseshoe tournament, followed by din-
ner. These two events can be easily organized and
the clubs will welcome this feature of their year’s
activity. 0

Discover Your Neighbors!
(Continued from page 526)

. tonight. Come over and eat with us.” We can do
this informally and easily because we do it on the
basis of family sharing without any thought of con-
ventional entertaining. It makes life very inter-
esting.

Only a year of this kind of sharing has passed
and already we recognize that certain very im*
portant things are happening to us. In this amaz—
ineg short time, we have come to know one an-
other on more than just speaking terms. We know
one another’s homes and interests.

We find that we _cannot share one another’s
good times and joys without sharing one another’s
problems and sorrows as well. When we have
baked pancakes and washed dishes in someone

JANUARY 1947

 

PICTORIAL Puoucnv
or Your RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

EFFECTIVE 0 ECONOMICAL O PROFITABLE

PICTURE POST CARDS

SOUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos
Write For Free Samples
ARTVUE POST CARD COMPANY

225 Fifth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

else’s kitchen, we feel very much at home. In
time of sickness or trouble it’s natural to go into
that home and be of real service. Moreover, we
have become sincerely interested in one another.
We cannot help feeling that this community spirit
we are developing is a very valuable thing and we
want it to keep growing. “7 hen some members of
our group are having difficulty, it is important to
the rest of us and we automatically combine forces
to get them back on their feet again.

Good times, we now know, are not limited to

people of common interests or of one particular

age group. The family is the pattern for living
and a family includes all ages. There are whole-
some activities that can include everyone. Two—
year—olds and grandfathers are part of our fun,
and nobody thinks either is in the way. One
neighbor said, “This is the first time since we’ve
been married that we ever did anything together
as a family.”

This recreation is our own. Since we have ex-
perienced it, we cannot be satisfied to pay some-
one to entertain us, as we used to. To go to a
movie for a few hours and come out feeling as
dull as we went in, doesn’t appeal to us very much ‘
any more.

Most important to us is the effect on our chil—
dren. They have developed in ways we could not
have imagined. They, too, are learning to live to-
gether. They are also learning to create their own
entertainment. They have discovered songs, dances,
games that they carry over into school, church and
all their larger group life. If we continue our rec—
reation activity I do not think that our community
will be much troubled by juvenile delinquency—
there are too many fascinating, wholesome inter—
ests just waiting to be explored.

And finally, we are learning this great truth:
People were meant to live together. Life is a pretty

565

Saul/or
The PHUEEEDINBS

of the

H ANNUAL CONVENTION
St. Louis, Mo., April, I946

American Association for Health,
Physical Education and
Recreation

Condensations of division meetings, work-
shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

Price $l.00

Order from the Association Office

|20l SIXTEENTH STREET. NW
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

lonely and depressing business if we confine our-
selves to our own family circles. It is very won—
derful, new and thrilling if we widen our circles.
We think that we are helping build a peace; for if
we can make a family of our own neighborhood,

we are full of hope that there can be a family of
nations!

Fourteen and Under

( Continued from page 518)

' ball and were happy to work with the playground
supervisor assigned to the center. By using the
m'erabundance of volunteer workers, the super-
visor was able to divide his group (which aver-
aged about 50 to a center) into smaller and more
workable outfits each having a volunteer father
in charge and cooperating with the supervisor.
()ne (lad sized up the clinics in this manner, “I

came to see my boy have fun and I’ve had more
fun than any kid here, helping out.”

As is always the case when a good program
gets under way, the news of it travels fast. Such
was the case with the Jefferson County football
clinics. The result was a telephone call from Dr.

566

 

‘4

Elwood Craig Davis, Athletic Director of the Uni: l
versity of'Louisville. Dr. Davis had heard of the
work being done out in the county with the little !
fellows and wanted to put them on between halves
of the University of Louisville-Wittenberg Col- l
lege game. Not only did this give the little chaps
a chance to show the fans exactly what went on in
the county on Saturday mornings, but it also
demonstrated to the public that wholesome recrea-
tion is the answer to a lot of our youth problems.

Demonstration

If everybody in the country, who is interested
in recreation, could have seen those boys playing
in Parkway Field, the home of the Louisville
Colonels, there would have been no doubt that,
properly supervised, football has lots of recreation
value. Three' hundred and two boys, representing
14 centers, took their respective places on the held.
One group was punting, another place kicking,
while still others were taking calisthenics and
demonstrating ball handling. Then, at the sound
of a whistle blown by the assistant supervisor of
county recreation, the youngsters changed routines ‘
and took up other phases learned in the clinics.

“ People who had come to see the University of
Louisville play Wittenberg went home talking
about the 302 country kids who had demonstrated
recreation—in—action between halves. Dr. Davis
had only one word for this program of the Jeffer-
son County Playground and Recreation Board, '
“wonderful.” The football clinics follow the gen-
eral pattern of the established recreation policy of
Jefferson County. Programs are set up in numer- '
ous communities and .then the entire county is
drawn together with county-wide events. This has
a tendency to make Jefferson County neighborly,
inasmuch as people who never would have known
each other become fast friends after meeting at one
of the county-wide recreation events.

While only one phase of the program of the
Jefferson County Playground and Recreation
Board was dealt with in this story, it is well to
point out that the program is both full and whole—
some, providing every type of recreation activity
for boys, girls and adults of all ages. Come on
down to Jefferson County and see the winter pro-
gram as it gathers steam. The schedule calls for ‘1
square dances, boxing tournaments, song fests and 
caroling, a hockey tournament for girls, dramatics, l
teen—age clubs, nursery recreation, arts, crafts,
workshops, folk dancing and athletics. You can
have a lot of fun in Jefferson County.

 

RECREATION 

14 7% Radio Beat!

'Like all WINTARK Equipment, it is' the first and last
word in ruggedness combined with perfect playing
qualities. Designed in cooperation with State Athletic

Associations, it inherits all the qualities required to
deveIOp skill and accuracy in play—plus the exclusive
patented features of CORDURA“ construction. This
means——-the greatest durability and economy in all
WINTARK Basketballs, Footballs, Soccerhalls and Vol-
leyballs. The popular choice with players and ath-
letic directors throughtout America.

ORIGINAL PIONEERS

The WEAVER Scholastic Playball and the WINTARK.

Rubber Covered, Cord Wound Basketball, were the
Flasr balls of this type introduced and successfully

used.

WINTARK Policy Wins for Dealers
Write for Our Latest Catalog

SALES COMPANY
AMERICA'S fORl'MOSl' ATHIETIC EQUIPMENT

BX 71. . . . SHAMOKIN, PA.;-

unit; Vds’lflmu'si "

 

 

Small Communities in Action

By Jean and Jess Ogden. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $3.00.

IT IS GOOD To FIND, amid the current gloom and shades of
pessimism, a positive book. Such a book is Small C om-
munities in Action, for its recounts no dream of fair
futures lbut realities of here and now. These stories of
“experimental approaches to democratic living that are
being tried effectively in various communities” are evi-
dence that the traditional American approach to problems
of everyday living, bewailed by the faithearted as for-
ever gone, is very much alive, very active in such pro-
grams as these “citizen programs at work.”

Although every bit of the book is of vital import to
recreation workers, Part IV, “Living a More Abundant
Life,” especially concerned with recreation. It deals with
citizen programs developed in the recreation field.

The other parts of the book discuss economics, health
and social welfare, citizenship and publicity. The final
chapter is a hopeful challenge to all communities every-
where. It is titled “The Community That Can Do It."
“We are setting down,” say the Ogdens at the beginning
of this chapter, “a few conclusions which we insist are
tentative. . . . The direction alone is fixed. It is the
direction of democracy. In fact we suggest (tentatively)
that democracy is a direction—the direction that leads
everyone to the realization of «his potentialities—the direc-
tion Of the good life and the good cummonity.”

Youth Serves the Community

Community Chests and Councils of America, Inc., 155

East 44th Street, New York 17, N. Y. $.50.
THIS IS THE TITLE of a very effectively prepared manual
for the organization of student volunteer service in
secondary schools. Although this manual is designed pri—
marily for the organization of high school students to
serve agencies Which are members of local community
chests and councils of social agencies, there is a great
deal of material in it of value to public recreation depart-
ments and others considering the organization of youth

volunteers as assistants in their local programs.

Music for Your Child

Egg William Krevit. Dodd Mead & Co., New York.
2. 0.

HIS LITTLE BOOK contains as its subtitle indicates, stimu-

lating and useful advice for parents. It discusses
mainly questions connected with individual instruction
which often perplex mothers and fathers, such as when
to start lessons, 'how to select the music teacher, and the
conditions necessary for beneficial practice periods. Some
of its material, however, like its suggestions in regard to
choice of instrument to learn, and recommended reading
lists, is equally useful for those concerned with any
aspect of children’s development, especially children with
musical aptitude. Included in the book also are classified
lists of phonograph records, illustrating the history of
music and its leading forms.

568

Physical Ed uc.ation

By George K. McKechnie. Bellman Publishing Company,
Inc., Boston, Massachusetts. $.75.

HYSICAL EDUCATION is number 68 in the list of Voca—

tional and Professional Monographs published by the
Bellman Company. Its author is Dean of Boston Uni-
versity College of Physical Education for Women, Sar- ‘
gent College. The monograph discusses qualifications and.
training necessary to a career in physical education and
rthe advantages and disadvantages of the vocation. In.
addition it analyzes employment opportunities and lists
colleges, universities and professional schools where
training may be secured in the United States.

The Lastiof Lite 0

THE BEST YEARS, by Walter B. Pitkin. Currrent Books,
Inc., New York. $2.00.

CREATIVE OLD AGE, by Clare de Grouchy. Old Age Coun-
selling Center, San Francisco. $2.75.

THE INCREASING INTEREST in the elderly and concern for
them is finding expression in 'printed matter. Here are

two books which approach the subject of old age from
two different points of view.

The Best Years is, in a sense, a continuation of Walter
Pitkin’s thinking as enunciated 14 years ago in Life
Begins at Party, but “events have outrun the prophet.”
In his current book he considers age in the light of new
developments in science and technology, and projects man
into an immediate and happy future made possible by
atomic power.

Creative Old Age is a case-history record of the Old
Age Counselling Center in San Francisco. The work,
the aims, the accomplishments of the center and the need
for it are explained through the stories of some of the

many older men and women who have passed, with their
problems, through its doors.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. VVINANT, First Vice-President ‘
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the-Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS ‘

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.

HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York N. Y.

HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, re.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER. Jacksonville, Fla.

HARRY P. DAYISON, New York, N. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, WaSh.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, MaSS. 
MRS. MELYILLE H. HASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
_ SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Au sta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, oodbury, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D C.

\E
RECREATION

