RECEA‘I’I

 

July 1947

 

Vol. XLI. No. 4 Price 35 Cenfs

   

RECREATION

in (xi/#1947

 

A Recreation Worker (editorial),
by Howard Braucher . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 169

Grand Opera—Wilmington Style,

byM.T.Clemons . . . . . . . ..:.....-.....171‘

Magic Carpet, by Elwood G. Mitchell. . . 173
These Dads Got Busy,

by C. Hensley Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Community Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179
State Recreation News Notes . . . . . . . . . . . 180

Failure to Success, by Beatrice Kealing. . 181

Sports for Teen-Agers,

by Wynne Arnholter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183
“Miss Minnie” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 184
Outline of Procedure for Establishing a

Community Recreation Program . . . . . . 185
Looking Forward Backward,

by Corinne Fonde . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .186

PT As You Like It, by Robert J. Kane. .. . 188

Children in Illinois Like to Dance!
by Ray 0. Duncan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189

The Veterans of Foreign Wars’ Place in

Community Recreation, by Lawrence
A. Rogers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191

Park-School Plan, by Robert E. Everly. . 192
Joseph Lee Appointed to Park Board. . . . 194
Recognition for Conrad L. Wirth. ._. .  . . 194 ,,
Rural Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195

' Program Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 198

The London Y.M.C.A. Boys’ Work .
Council, by Gower H. Markle . . . . . . . . 199

Music and Recreation,
by Amy Elizabeth Jensen . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Medal Awarded to Dr. Sabin . . . . . . . . . . . 204
World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205

Moyies of Recreation, by Harold Hainfeld 208

A Quarter Century of Service . . . . . . . . . . . 209

, Sibyl Baker Honored . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Books Received . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 210

Has Frivolity a Place in Life?
by Archdeacon A. P. Gower-Rees. . . . . 212

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . 214

New Publications in the “Leisure

Time Field . . . . . . . . . .:..... . . . . . . . . .. 216

a

Cover print by_Gedge Harmon .

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association. formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of‘America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at '315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.: is on file. in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second—
class matter June-12. 1929, at the Post Oflice in New York. New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917, authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1947. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S.A.

Venus/1g FORTY-ONE}, NUMBER FOUR  ‘3-

 

A Recreation Worker

ARECREATION WORKER is not primarily a Do Gooder, a worker for the disadvan—
taged, a righter of wrongs, a worker against sin, a redeemer of men from iniquity,
a rescuer of men from ill health, disease.

Good is done.

The disadvantaged are helped.

| Wrongs are righted.
Homes are saved.
Mental health is restored.

Men have been helped in keeping from various ills.

The recreation worker, however, primarily helps with times and places and
the climate of living for all people.

For all people before they are sick.

For all children before they are run over by autos in the streets.

For all children before they get into the courts.

For all men before they get into jail.

The recreation worker’s assignment is to help to make life livable for all.
We know what conditions are essential for strong trees, plants.

. So we know recreation is essential if man is to be a normal, satisfactory person.

Therefore we provide recreation leaders for our children, our youth, for our
communities.

The provision of recreation in the modern community is just ordinary decency,
just making possible normal, satisfactory living for the ordinary man.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

169

JUly

 

Courtesy Journal of Health and Physical Education

 

‘ 170 RECREATION

 

Grand Opera—
Wilmington Style

By M. T. CLEMONS

ERDl’s Aida—one of the most successful musi-
cal productions ever to appear in Wilmington,

Delaware—was presented February 20 and '-

22, 1947, under the sponsorship of the Recreation
Promotion and Service Inc. and the Wilmington
Music Commission.

The color and drama of Aida are almost matched
by the story behind Wilmington’s production of
the world’s best-loved opera. N 0 grand opera had
been sung in Wilmington for 20 years until Octo-
ber 8, 1945, when the Boston Grand Opera Com-
pany presented Bizet’s Carmen under sponsorship
of Recreation Promotion and Service. At this time,
35 local singers augmented the Boston Grand
Opera Company chorus and won so much praise
for their work that the Music Commission and
R.P.S. decided to back a full operatic chorus in
\Vilmington.

For months the sponsors carefully studied lists
of eligible singers. Wilmington and vicinity have
many fine choral groups—clubs, churches, and
schools—and from these and private individuals
the planners hoped to choose an operatic chorus
which could be made second to none.

Letters outlining the plan and application blanks
were sent to more than 200 voice teachers, music
schools, choral directors, and other persons known
to be interested in opera singing. Candidates had
to be at least 18 years of age and students of voice
culture. Letters of application were required to
give names of aspirants, age, voice type, experi-
ence, languages spoken, favorite opera, length of
time applicant had studied voice, and names of
instructors. ,

Meanwhile the sponsors looked around for an
able conductor, and found him in the person of
Herbert Fiss, staff member of the Philadelphia
LaScala Opera Company. Although busy as con-
ductor of the LaScala Opera Company, Mr. Fiss
accepted the position of coaching the Wilmington
Opera Singers.

Frederick W. Wyatt, of Wilmington, was
chosen assistant conductor, for it was he who had
trained the local singers appearing in the 1946 pro-
duction of Carmen. He had for years been a
choral director in the city, being founder and con-

ductor of the Capella Club Choir, director of the '1

JULY 1947

Brandywiners Chorus, and leader of the New Cen-
tury Club Women’s Chorus.

With directors chosen—and letters of applica-
tion pouring in from aspiring singers—the spon-
sors had only to choose a suitable time and place
for auditions. On March 26, 1946, beginning at
6 P.M., grand opera arias echoed through the Wil-
mington High School auditorium. Audition time
had begun! Seventy-three vocalists, ranging fromo
18 to 50 years of age, were tried out that first
evening between 6 and 10 :30 o’clock.

Dramatic tenors, lyric sopranos, contraltos, bari-
tones, bassos, all types of singers took their turn
on the bare stage where the only other person was
an accompanist. Each vocalist sang a prepared solo
to show off the voice range. To most of the sing-
ers this was their first attempt at grand opera.
Some performed with admirable self-assurance.
Others were extremely nervous. One young bari-
tone—who, incidentally, was chosen without a
moment’s hesitation—came directly to the re-
hearsal hall after leaving his daily job, came with-
out his prepared solo, but sang so well from
memory that the other singers gave him an ova-
tion. He was in.

Conductors Fiss and Wyatt sat listening, making
notes, sometimes nodding approval, now and then
requesting a singer to run the scale again. Every
three minutes a new aspirant walked on stage.
The pace was fast, but each singer got a fair trial
and of the 73 who tried out, 35 made the grade.
Everybody had fun whether he got in the chorus
or didn’t, and there was always the chance for a
later audition for those who were not accepted
the first time.

Subsequent auditions were held for 5a total of
193 singers. Seventy-five were chosen as members
of the Wilmington Opera Singers Chorus. The
new opera group met for several spring rehearsals,
and then disbanded during the summer months,
each member doing private study on the score of
Aida, which the group had decided to produce.
Rehearsals were to start again in the fall.

Rehearsals in Earnest

On September 26, another audition was held to
choose additional chorus members, and on October
14 the really hard work got under way, with a
full-scale rehearsal lasting three hours. For the
next five months, the singers were to meet once a
week—for a three hour workout. '

Chorus members lived all over the Wilmington
metropolitan area, and several came from down-
state, one singer driving a 96-mile round trip to
rehearsals. People from all walks of life were rep-

171

resented in the company—school teachers, garage
owners, executives, professional musicians, house-
wives, college professors, chemical engineers, and
many others. Everyone worked enthusiastically,
driven by the urge to make the Wilmington Opera
Singers Chorus a really professional musical or-
ganization.

Aida would be sung in Italian. Conductor Fiss,
commuting from Philadelphia each Tuesday eve-
ning, not only led the singers musically, but
coached them in Italian as well. Only a few of the
chorus were conversant with the language, but as
time went on, each member gradually grew self-
reliant and sang Italian with as much assurance as
he would have English. Rehearsals ran for two
months, were suspended during the Christmas
holidays, and began anew the first week of January.

At this time, the production date for Aida was
set—February 20 and 22—the singers deciding to
give two performances, so that more opera-lovers
might hear the presentation. The company and
sponsors also decided to use as many of the Wil-
mington Opera Singers as possible in minor prin-
cipal roles and as understudies. After exhaustive
tryouts, three members were chosen as minor prin-
cipals, five as understudies. All eight had done
stage, radio, and concert work.

Now rehearsals were held twice a week for three
hours of concentrated effort. The singers nearly
always had an audience which sat through the
entire rehearsal period. And after awhile people
began favorably comparing the chorus with that of
professional opera companies.

Final Arrangements

In the meantime, major principal roles were
being filled. Through a special arrangement with
the New York Metropolitan Opera Association,
Ella Flesch, leading Met soprano, was lured to
sing the title role of Aida, and through J. H. Meyer
of the New York Music Bureau, the other leads
were secured.

A former stage director of the Metropolitan
Opera House supervised the staging of the pro-
duction. He also designed the new scenery used—
seven sets in all. He and Mr. Meyer, who was
acting as production manager, commuted from
New York several times to put the singers through
their paces.

A professional orchestra, to be augmented by
nine Wilmington instrumentalists, was hired in
Philadelphia. The ballet came from the LaScala
Opera Company.

The cast numbered 153 people, including prin-
cipals, ballet, chorus, soldiers, slaves and digni-
taries. Men supers were chosen from the Hercules

172

Experimental Station of Wilmington, Kingswood
Community Center, and the University of Dela-
ware. Girl and women supers came from various
offices throughout the city—many of these assist-
ants were personal friends of chorus members. On
Monday, March 17, a final stage rehearsal was
held at the Playhouse, and, for better or worse,
the show was ready to play.
Performance

It snowed 12 inches on opening night, a driving
blinding storm that roared across the city like a
fury. But the Playhouse (1,400 seats) was packed.
Many in the audience were people who regularly
attended performances by the LaScala and Metro—
politan Opera Companies. Some peOple came out
of curiosity, of course, wanting to see what the
Wilmington Opera Singers Chorus would do with
its initial production. Also, it must be admitted,
some people came expecting to hear a mediocre or
even a poor performance. Hadn’t they heard, after
all, the best opera New York had to offer? What
did the Wilmington Opera Singers have by way of
comparison?

Before that first performance was 10 minutes
under way, the entire audience knew that what the
Wilmington Opera Singers had to offer was pro-
fessional top-notch grand opera-#grand opera pre-
sented so glowingly, so powerfully, that the listen-
ers caught fire and were swept along by the story
of Aida, slave-girl in love with a prince. Every
scene was a triumph for all—conductor, principals
and chorus. Timing was perfect. Acting was com—
petent. Singing was superb. The sponsors were
busy during intermission accepting congratulations
for the company.

The performance was a hit with everybody, in-
cluding the critics. Next morning Wilmington
newspaper reviews were lavish in praise of prin-
cipals and chorus. There were none of the usual
qualifying statements, but a really honest’ appraisal
of the opera as such.

A second triumph came on Saturday, March 22,
when the cast performed even better, if anything,
than on Thursday. The Wilmington Opera Singers
proved they could produce good opera. These two
masterful performances showed it.

At present the singers are resting after their five
months of rehearsals. But plans are already being
studied for their next opera production. Before
long, a new series of auditions will be held—to
enlarge the chorus still further, and at the same time
to take care of young singers who want to join.
Recreation is the keynote. Grand opera has come to
Wilmington under the. Recreation Promotion and
Service slogan, “More Fun for More People.”

RECREATION

 

Magic Carpet

By ELWOOD G. MITCHELL

Executive Director
Greater Vallejo Recreation District
Vallejo, California

UMMER VACATION —-
S There are no brighter words in the lexi-
con of school-age youth. Summer vaca-
tion—an interminable period stretches beauti—
fully and excitingly down the endless path of
time. Most magic of all time, this summer vacation.
Merely by beginning it wipes from the mind all the
accumulation of boredom, pressure, misunder-
standing, and puzzling wonderment inflicted by the
seemingly unnecessary demands of the school year,
just as surely as the monitor’s eraser cleans the
blackboard at term’s end.

And that’s not all. The mind, unlike the black—
board, is not left blank and empty. The mind is
filled enchantingly with vistas of adventure, clean
and fresh. Filled. Overflowed with innumerable
desires and plans.

However inconceivable to the mind of youth,
there are a few realities to mar the perfection of
the dream—bugaboos in the form of lack of oppor—
tunity, existing conditions.

During recent years the tragedy of war choked
the plans and desires of youth. The plans and
dreams didn’t die and they weren’t forgotten, they
were merely postponed. And even during times of
so-called peace there are Gremlins who work heart-
lessly thwarting youth’s ambition to get the most
out of summer vacation. Families must work. Obli—
gations must be met. Finances must be solidified
or stabilized. Parents must insure the security of
their family. i

There is one effective bromo for the alleviation
of the perennial headache—the local recreation
program.

The Greater Vallejo Recreation District pre—
sented an antidote last summer when it re-estab-
lished day camping. To the uninitiated day camping
means little. To those who know, it means the dif-
ference between no road and a posted highway, the
difference between aimless wandering and a charted
course towards an ultimate goal.

What more fun———what more in keeping with

E: lULY 1947

   

    

I .51.,»
i ' a; .

Courtesy Greater Vallejo Recreation District, Calif.

dreams of adventure than a daily ride on a Magic
Carpet? Daily trips, for a whole week, to another
nation—to another country—to explore at will any
part of the, chosen country—to dig deep into its
folklore and romance, into its customs and very
existence—to be yourself a part of that country—
of its making and of its being! What more fun,
what more adventure than this! This was to be
day camping for youngsters of the district.

But, visiting a foreign country means more than
just buying a ticket and stepping on a plane or a
ship. Plans must be formulated, arrangements
must be made.

Safe and reliable transportation for more than
100 children each day for six weeks to and from
Blue Rock Springs, five miles from Vallejo, was no
small problem. It was solved by the superintend—
ent of schools who, when approached, offered the
use of two drivers and two school buses for the
entire period.

There can be no comprehensive exploration of a
foreign country without the services of competent
and professional guides. Vallejo’s supervisor of
playgrounds, under whose program the adventure
was conducted, called a meeting of youth activities
executives. Representatives of the Boys’ Y.M.C.A.,
the Y.W.C.A., Camp Fire Girls and Catholic Chari—
ties attended the first meeting and a joint plan of
endeavor was agreed upon.

Leaders were approved and procured. The
Greater Vallejo Recreation District hired two
camp directors and additional leadership as needed.
The Camp Fire Girls, experienced in day camps,
pledged the volunteer assistance of Camp Fire
leaders. The Boys’ Y.M.C.A. agreed to provide

173

leadership for three days each week. The Catholic
Charities gave their director as program leader for
the first two weeks.

The co-directors of the camp were the key to the
ultimate success of the program. The Greater Val—
lejo Recreation District was fortunate in acquiring
these directors. Their energy and enthusiasm and
their ability to appreciate the problems of the other
leaders and to cooperate accordingly was invalu-
ably essential to the success of the program.

One director accepted the responsibility of busi-
ness manager and devoted four weeks’ time to
orienting and training leaders, securing necessary
advance publicity and meeting P.T.A. groups to
acquaint them with the purpose of the program.

Another director planned programs, secured
props and equipment and assisted in the training
of leaders.

Coincidental with the preliminaries, regular
weekly meetings of directors and representatives
of the cooperating agencies were held and final
plans were laid. ‘

The City of Greater Vallejo_was divided into
six areas. Children from one area—passengers on
the Magic Carpet—would attend camp daily Mon-
day through Friday. School buses (the Magic
Carpet) would take off at 9 each morning and land
on the home field at 4 each evening. A fare of $1
per week per passenger would be collected and this
would pay for special treats and supplies. Passen-
gers would be divided into age groups and assigned
a guide for the week’s activities. The leaders were
to be of three classes—paid leaders, supplied by
the Recreation District, the Catholic Charities and
the Y.M.C.A.; volunteers from affiliated Camp
Fire and P.T.A. organizations; and a large num-
ber of high school students listed as Junior Coun-
selors.

Finally, with all plans and arrangements com-
pleted ‘-——- with transportation secured —— passports
and visas approved — guides obtained —— supplies
laid in — and itineraries well planned —— the Magic
Carpet took off on its first flight.

Take Off

The Magic Carpet theme, with its weekly pro—
grams stressing the music, foods, activities and
customs of different nations gave meaning to the
idea and served as a coordinate for the programs.

Only imagination can fully analyze the thoughts
and dreams of each passenger as the Magic Carpet
transported them to the scene of new adventure.
Figures out of dim history were undoubtedly con—

174

jured up and associated with each ego—Marco
Polo, Magellan, Henry Hudson, Ponce de Leon,
Balboa, and many other travelers to distant places.
Heroic battles with savage tribesmen, magnificent
discoveries, ancient temples, treasures of China,
the forbidden temples of Tabu, the Pacific, the
great valleys and mountains and plains—0f dreams
such as these was the weekly trip made.

Each day’s adventure began with assembly and
the raising of the flag. Songs were sung and an-
nouncements made. Assembly dissolved into pre-
determined groups each of which followed its guide
through a series of activities.

Craftwork—woodwork, pyro craft weaving, raf-
fia, colored paper, papier—maché, crepe paper,
painting, plaster of Paris—each lent its own charm
to the journey. Nature study, hikes, naming of
weeds, flowers, trees and birds; making of jewelry
and other objects from native material on hand;
mapping of the park area; games; archery——each
contributed in its way to the fantasy of adventure.
In imagination at one moment and in the same
instant the passenger is. a craftsman of another
world or time and is also an intrepid soldier of
fortune or explorer looking down on the ancient
craftsman and admiring his skill. For imagination

_ is a gem of greater value, with more brilliant facets
' than any diamond.

Many novel projects were undertaken. Each
group of travelers, under tutelage'of their guide,
constructed their own headquarters and fitted it
according to their needs. Lean—to and shelter, tent,
teepee, wigwam or cave home, castle, or fort, what
is needed? Healthy skillful hands guided by imagi-
nation will build it.

At the end of each day, just before the Magic
Carpet took off for home, came the special treat—
a touch of Americana, ice cream or soda pop-
something that the old explorers or adventurers
would have deemed a treasure indeed had their
searches revealed any such delicacy. And then

_ home to Mother and Dad, a hot meal and a warm

bed, and dreams of greater adventures on the
nlorrow.

And what about Mother and Dad? Did the tales
of high adventure worry them? Or did they feel
within themselves a flow of purpose accomplished,

' happiness given, when they listened to the fun their

sons or daughters had had under safe, competent
leadership?

More than 550 children rode the Magic Carpet
during its six weeks tour. Many more are await-
ing the next day camp—and who will deny them?

. RECREATION

 

These Dads Got ’ Busy*

By C. HENSLEY JACKSON

v NEIGHBOR, the father of nine-year-old twin
M boys, sat on his steps smoking his pipe as
I came out to relax on my own steps just
three feet away. All down the street, men were
coming out into the warm spring twilight for their
evening smoke. Children rattled by on roller
skates or joined the group jumping rope on the
sidewalk.. Ted and Tom, the twins, played catch
in the street.
“That’s no proper place for a ball game,” re-

marked my neighbor between 'puffs. “But where .

else can they find room to throw a ball around
here? Do you know, my wife and I actually dread
vacation this year I”

“The school is the nearest playground, isn’t it?”

I asked.
“You’re right. And very few of these young-

sters on this street are big enough to go more than -

a mile away from home to play.”

Most of the folks in our immediate neighbor-
hood were newcomers like ourselves —families
only temporarily employed in this particular city.
We had been so glad to find living quarters in an
overcrowded city that we had not thought much
about the play problem until our youngsters
dumped it on our doorsteps.

As the date for school’s closing drew nearer, my
neighbor and I talked over our mutual problem.
Occasionally another dad on the block joined us.
Finally one evening, we decided to do more than
talk.

We paced off our district for a radius of seven
blocks, as far as we thought our youngsters could
go alone to play. We found no area with play
possibilities. Then, home again, we stopped at the
lots just beyond our row of houses where, due to
wartime shortages, building had been stopped.
Here was the only vacant ground in all the area,
and this was littered with old scaffolding, bricks
and foundation stones. Well—posted with “No
Trespassing” signs, it looked far from encouraging
as a play space.

Yet those scaffolding boards were sound and
not too heavy for small boys working in pairs to
move around. Those bricks could be tugged about

 

"Reprinted by permission from Parents? Magazine, June 1946.

IULY 1947

by three and four-year-olds. They could be used
for building playhouses, we thought. Even the
larger foundation stones might have-possibilities.
If the area did nothing more than keep our young-
sters off the street part of the time, it would be of
someusetous. , ‘ '.  _ .
We talked to our landlord, the owner of the’lots.
At first he thought he could notJrelaic' his “No
Trespass’ing” rule and allow youngstersto swarm
all over the place. We asked him to estimate ,the
value of the material lying,around,, add a _reason-:
able amount for ground rent for a summer and
make us an offer for the use of- this space. I
A week later he offered us the use of the lots
and materials for the summer for $25, promising
to refund $I5 of this if after the lots ceased to be
used as play space the materials could still .be used .
for his purposes. He added that he would. have ;to;
have a release relieving him of responsibility {or
any accidents that might occur on the lots while
they were used by the children. ‘ ‘ ,
Armed with this information, three of us dads
made a door-to-door canvas of the three blocks on
our street. We raised the $25 plus another1$25l
for additional play material. We got the release
signed and, in addition, got the promises ,of the
mothers and dads to do their share of supervising
the play area. The ease with which we accom:
plished this surprised us. _ 
By this time, we thought a general meeting of
all the families involved was in order. But where?
None of us, in our identical five-room living spaces
had a place big enough to accommodateusuch a'
gathering. , ._  ‘
“Let’s just meet on the lots then,” suggested
the twins’ dad. So we did. One evening, two weeks
before school was dismissed for the summer, after,
the littlest ones had been tucked safely into bed,
we sat there, draped around on piles of lumber,
improvised brick chairs or plank benches. The
moon and stars were our only light.

Ever try such a neighborhood meeting? Man,
there is adventure in it . . . all- the adventure of
parenthood and neighborliness. But it wasn’t too'
dark for those bright-eyed mothers ,to spot a few
nails sticking out of those boards! . '

17,5

We got our supervising time allotted, giving
.mothers the daytime hours and leaving the eve-
nings for the dads. We decided to cooperate in
keeping everyone off the play area during the hot-
est hours of the day, 11 A.M. until 4 P.M. Here in
Virginia it really gets hot during those hours. This
quiet time, we felt, would encourage naps, give
the children a rest from each other and relieve the
noises for the nearest residents. (These happened
to be we three Jacksons and we voted for that!)
We voted to buy materials for a large sandbox,
some sand, a softball, some quiet games and a big
wooden chest to keep supplies locked up in when
not in use. Some of us dads also volunteered to
go over all the boards and take out the nails before
the play area was used. We did, too, mixing poli-
tics and world prophecies and jokes with our
hammering and pulling and stacking.

The play area was ready the week school closed
and those I 5 youngsters really took over with a
bang!

Such hide-outs, huts, forts, barricades, bridges
and anti-aircraft guns as those boards did make!
Because no hammers or nails were to be used on
the lots, a great deal of ingenuity had to be em—
ployed to make the projects stick together. Those
9 to 12-year-old boys were equal to the task.

As for the bricks, one week the cleared half of
the area was covered with walks, winding and
curving everywhere. Another time a regular town
sprang up with small storekeepers' and school
teachers holding forth gleefully. Everyone, even
the three-year-olds, enjoyed carrying those bricks
around. Fireplaces, but no fires, benches, floor
plans, walls—almost anything could be made out of
bricks, the children discovered. In the process
muscles, even very young muscles, and I must
admit some 40—year—old muscles, got the workout
they needed.

Once each week, the 15 youngsters worked in
crews of three to screen the sand in the box. We
had one rule there—no throwing sand! Three
times during the season, we added new clean sand.

The older boys cleared an area on the farthest
end of the lots, built a low wall to cut it off from
the rest of the space and proclaimed it their own!
Here rough play could be indulged in, wrestling
or tugs of war which provided an outlet for that
urge to shove around the boys have. We had one
youngster who was inclined to be a bit of a bully.
After this area was built and all the youngsters
were on their guard for rough play, the bully no
longer became a problem. It is one thing to hit an
unsuspecting youngster and quite another to strike
a child who is ready to defend himself. On this

1:76

space, the boys dug a pit for jumping, ran races
for which the parent on duty held the stop watch,
wrestled and so forth.

It was in the evening that we dads had our fun.
There was no play schedule, and no one was in
charge of what to do. Each dad ust had to supply
his own ideas.

One dad brought out a pair of boxing gloves
packed away in his college trophy trunk. (His
offspring was a lovely little girl.) He got a great
kick out of showing the older boys how to box so
that the sport remains fun and no one really gets
hurt. Another. took time one evening to Show a lad
how to put two sticks, a sheet of paper and some
twine together, using proportions that would make
a kite that would really fly. The next time this dad
was on the play lots, nine kids, several of them
girls, showed up with kite—making supplies. Before
the summer was over, these kite-flying enthusiasts
had organized themselves into a Kite Flyers Club,
using as their badge of membership kites so small
they could be held in the palm of one’s hand and
had to be flown with sewing thread. As a kite-
making project to end all kite-making projects,
this group built a kite so big it took seven of them

. to act as a launching team every time they wanted

to fly it.

Often on cool evenings, the youngsters and many

.of their parents gathered around a council fire,

built and tended by a couple of dads, to swap
stories of their childhood back and forth around
the circle. How the youngsters laughed as one
dad told of falling right on top of the family’s
picnic cake, or as one mother told of meeting her
girlhood sweetheart while she—of all things—was
riding on the broad back of a good natured cow!
There were other stories, too, that opened far hori-
zons for these youngsters. The dad who grew up
in Missouri in Mark Twain’s own territory made
those places along the river come alive. The
mother whose army captain father had his family
with him in the Philippines for eight adventure-
packed years added color and excitement to far
places. '

Sometimes youngsters told experiences of their
own. Often the group would pick up the melody
of a tune someone was whistling and would sit
around the fire singing until sleepy children had to
be taken home to bed.

The street had very little lure for these 15 chil-
dren. It was on the play lot that interests and
experiences were shared. Every play experience
there built something into the lives of these chil-
dren and into the lives of parents as well. And

RECREATION

 

surprisingly few experiences were not acceptable.
The thing we mothers and dads learned there that
was of immense value to our mutual neighborly
respect was that every one of the 15 youngsters
on our street proved himself an acceptable play-
mate. The morale of our three blocks soared.

Occasionally, on warm days, our players cared
little to do more than just spread out and relax,
with their warm young bodies close to the ground.
Lucky the parent who happened to be on duty
then, for the bits of conversation that fell upon his
ears were charming and laugh provoking. I had
four-year-old Jimmie near me at one such relaxed
evening period. The stars were coming through
one by one and we were lying on our backs watch-
ing them.

“Them stars is lights,” said Jimmie confiden-
tially. “God’s just turning them on.”

Dignity demanded that one accept this state-
ment unsmilingly and as it stood, full of magic and
wonder.

The end of the summer found five dollars still
in our treasury. Spending ’this for ice cream and
cookies was the kids’ idea. Decorating their
“trikes” and bikes and doll carriages and having
a three-block-long parade was their idea, too.

As the colorful parade moved noisily down the
street and back, three dads patted themselves on
the backs. Just look at those kids . . . how brown
and well! Not a broken bone all summer! Listen
to their laughter and take a good sniff of the fel-
lowship in the air! We weren’t to be thanked for
all the success of our neighborhood venture; other
dads and their wives deserved a good slice of the
credit, but we were the ones who got the thing
started, weren’t we?

“By the way,” said the twins’ dad, “the land-
lord was around looking things over today. He
said the kids really didn’t hurt things enough to
mention. In fact, he seemed to think that having
them play here has protected his other property.
He gave us back our $25, all of it. What’ll we do
with it?”

By unanimous consent it was set aside, in cus-
tody of the twins’ dad, as a start on some such
neighborhood venture for next season.

As things worked out, we didn’t see that street
in action last summer after all. A civil engineer
and his family are little more than gypsies, and
by the middle of the winter we had had one of our
frequent moves.

In our new location, housing was not such an
acute problem. We were able to find a place quite
near a regular playground, which we were as-
sured would be open come summer.

JULY 1947

“No play problem this time,” said Jane glee-
fully. “Not but what last summer was fun, of
course, but how nice just "to relax and let?s'ome
trained play director take over.”

Little the woman knew!

\Vhen I got home the evening of the opening
day for the playground, I found my wife' had not
sent our six—year-old to play there. = '

“Most of the children around here wentitothe
movies instead. They say their parents won’t let
them go to the playgrounds, seemed to think the
place was poison. Maybe we better find out why
before we throw our small daughter ‘to the
wolves,” she suggested.‘ . '

We let the matter slide for several days, the chil-
dren amusing themselves on skates or with' hop-
scotch or other sidewalk games. They were getting
rather tired of each other and we were annoyed at
the number of times the youngsters were chased
off lawns. With a supervised playground near, not
taking advantage of it just didn’t seem right. '.

One evening, I took my daughter by the hand
and strolled over to see why the neigthrs had the
idea nice children just didn’t play there. We found
half a dozen children and a very discouraged di-
rector half—heartedly playing around. Only aislide
was in condition to be used; other apparatus was
stripped to the frames.

The director admitted that lack of interest took
the heart out of her program. She said that a year
before the playgrounds had been supervised but
not by trained directors, that the children were
left to their own devices and that older boys 'had
soon driven off the smaller children.

“We are out to change all that this year,” she
said, “but it is slow going when the parents just
won’t let their children come.”

The rest of the apparatus had not been put up
due to lack of men to handle and test -it. A couple
of strong dads could remedy that situation, if any
were interested enough to do it. Two of us were
interested. The next evening we hung swings,
put seesaws in place and checked the slide for
rough spots and splinters. Our three youngsters
tried out each piece of apparatus as we proclaimed
it safe.

“This is a swell place to play. Why can’t we
come here, Dad?” asked Bill.

“Well,” said my fellow worker, “I just guess
your mother and I have had the wrong idea of the
place. I guess you can come from now on.”

For a few days then our three were the only
ones from our immediate neighborhood who played
on the playground. At first my wife went along

177

just to assure herself the director in charge really
was a competent person. Within a week two other
children were allowed to go to the playground if
a parent accompanied them.

“If we could get more parents over here a few
times, we might get somewhere,” said the director
hOpefully.

“Why not have some special event that they
wouldn’t be able to resist coming to ?” suggested
my wife.

That’s how our Pet Show came about. To get
the dads to come, too, the director held out a
bribe of a demonstration by a soldier from a near—
by camp of trained war dogs’ obedient to com—
mands. The programs for the event were mimeo—
graphed at my office and the children who did play
on the "playgrounds distributed them over the
neighborhood.

The response was almost a shock. The neigh—
borhood really turned out—dogs, cats, canaries,

goldfish and all. Three dads chosen from the audi- '

ence acted as the merriest of judges, and mea-
sured dogS’ tails, listened to the pitch of cats’ meows
and so forth. The soldier and his dog put on a
splendid show and the director, in a warm, friendly
way, admitted past mistakes of the playground and
offered a better program for the future.

Once convinced the playground was well—di—
rected, parents were cooperative. To keep their
interest, special events were planned for evenings
all through the summer. Parents were urged to
dr0p in on the playground unannounced and to put
suggestions for improvement of the program in a
box set up in an inconspicuous place for that
purpose.

One of the most interesting and practical of
these suggestions came from the young father of a
little lad who couldn’t seem to remember the rules
for using the slide safely.

“Pictures instead of rules, posted beside the ap-
paratus, would help those little people who can
read only a word or two,” was his idea.

This provided important work for the hand-
craft hour. It was an interesting fact that the signs
that meant the most to the littlest children were
those that were made by the littlest artists. Simple
“yes” and “no” pictures soon replaced long lists
of typed rules, fewer accidents were reported and
the general discipline of the playground improved.
It wasn’t that the smallest ones meant to be
naughty; it was just that they couldn’t read the
rules!

By the end of last summer there was scarcely
a child in the neighborhood who wasn’t playing on '
the playground. Parents visited often and many
stayed to watch the fun. Dads took it upon them-
selves to keep the apparatus tested and to make
small repairs when necessary. Dad—and-son teams
competed in a horseshoe tournament.

The playground is the best answer to the play
needs of a democracy, whether the play space
grows from something as unpromising as an
abandoned building lot or from a well-equipped
civic program. What many of us have yet to real—
ize is that parent interest is the force that makes
any area a play area to which we are willing to
send our children. Parent-participation, especially
dad—participation, can make all the difference
between a neighborhood nuisance and a neighbor—
hood play haven.

 

Old Home Day

INCOLN, VERMONT, is a small community tucked high in the mountains. The entire town which covers
L a mountainous area of 24,180 acres boasts a p0pulation of 745 and this includes the settlements of
Lincoln, South Lincoln and West Lincoln.

A community house known as Burnham Hall which was given to the town is the center for all
- activities. One of the outstanding events is the annual gathering of persons over 80 years of age which
is held every August. The last gathering was attended by 60 members. Dinner was followed by a busi—
ness meeting and a program in the auditorium. The president, age 90, presided and was re-elected for
another term.

The program included songs, solos, stories, recitations, piano and violin solos. A gentleman of 88
from New Haven sang a solo H ear Dem Bells.

The idea of Old Home Day was originated by a schoolteacher whose parents formerly lived in
Lincoln. It was always a source of pleasure for her mother to meet her old friends so the daughter con-
ceived the idea of an old folk’s gathering. Earlier, only those 70 years or older were included and they
prepared the dinner and arranged the entertainment. Now many are too old to serve the dinner so younger
persons are invited to help. At the annual meeting it was voted to call the Lincoln old folk’s reunion
Old Home Day. ‘

178 “ RECREATION

 

Community Center

HERE ARE 5,000 people in Emporium, Cam-
Teron County, Pennsylvania. Many of them

and many of their countyneighbors dreamed,
hoped, believed in a thing to be done. And, of
course, the dream came true, the hope was real-
ized, the belief was justified.

Dream, hope, belief aimed toward one end——

a recreation center and a playground program
for this small town and its contiguous rural
area. The thing they wanted began to happen
for the people of Emporium because of a war.
Because of war an added impetus was given to
the hope and the dream and the belief. Because
of war the house that was to be a community
center opened its doors in_ January 1945 as a
U.S.O. club. A year later, its immediate pur-
pose accomplished, it became a community cen-
ter. A governing board of five members decided
they needed a full-time recreation director to
coordinate all recreation activities in the town
and the wider community of the county. They
needed, too, a supervisor for the center. And for
all this they needed money, ‘

The money was found through two local organi-
zations, the Emporium Community Chest and the
Emporium Foundation—a non-profit organization
to promote the physical and mental welfare and the
education of the people of Cameron County. The
Foundation’s charter stipulated its right to estab-
lish, maintain or assist such facilities for physical
and mental training as public libraries, parks, play-
grounds, recreation community buildings. Clearly
its board of governors was within its rights to use
some of the gifts of money and land given the
foundation for carrying on a community center.

So the director and supervisors were hired.
Eight volunteers came to help the supervisor as
center hostesses from 3 to II P. M. every day ex-
cept holidays.

‘ The center opened to the people the doors of its
several rooms—-its reception room, its main lounge
with open fireplace, piano and juke box, space to
seat 50 pe0ple for meetings and lectures, its bil-
liard room, its well-equipped kitchen, its laundry
and art room and rooms for active and quiet
games. There is a sewing room and a music room,
.space for dramatics and for the photo club mem-
bers to print and develop and enlarge their shots
without worry about dark room clutter. There is

JULY 1947

 

Up the center steps

a shower with two hair dryers for the girls and a
reading room for those so inclined. Outside there
is a large open fireplace, a set of horseshoe pitch—
ing boxes and a green for bowling or boccie.

Sixteen organizations hold regular monthly or
bi-monthly meetings in the center. At unsched-
uled times other groups make occasional use of
the house.

Important as is the center to the community, it
is only a part of the larger recreation program.
Other facilities include a large playground and a
baseball field. Planned for the immediate future are
two tot lots. A park of several acres will eventu-
ally be' the site of a swimming pool and an athletic
field.

In 1946, because the nearest swimming pool was
six miles away and without regular bus service,
the Rotary Club provided a bus to take boys and
girls from 8 to I6 for swimming five days a week
for eight weeks. Each day 150 youngsters, each
sporting a metal disk as evidence of’ registration
with the recreation department for age and par.-
ental consent. were gaily transported to and from
the pool.

The local school board has increased recreation
possibilities by its cooperation. On two nights a
week and on Saturday afternoon the high school

179

gym is at the disposal of the recreation department.
Variety is the keynote of the program. Here is
a list of activities carried on during the fall and
winter program: '
Active and quiet games
Billiards for girls and boys

Dramatics
Classes in sewing, dancing, bridge, art, ceramics,

psychology
Photography club

A bowling league for girls

Community senior and junior basketball leagues
Group singing and community chorus

Teen-age orchestra

Handcrafts

Lectures

Here is proof, if further proof be needed, that
size is no deterrent to a full recreation program
provided only there is in the community the will
to provide what the community needs.

 

 

mS’ra’re Recreation News Notes

HE AGRICULTURAL Extension Service in Iowa

has arranged to employ on a per diem basis a

special recreation worker to train county work-
ers. The person employed was formerly a 4-H
Recreation Specialist in Oregon and will under-
take this assignment only until a full-time specialist
can be employed. Arrangements have also been
worked out with Mr. Nevin Nichols, Director of
Recreation in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on a per diem
basis to give such time as he can to meeting with
leaders of 4-H and women’s clubs to assist them
with their plans for recreation. The Extension Ser-
vice is also looking for someone to direct special
music activities.

*>i=>i<

The bill to establish a state recreation board in
Vermont has been passed unanimously. The board
will consist of three members appointed by the
'Governor. For the past two years Vermont has
had a State Director of Recreation responsible to
the Council of Safety.

* * *

A new law in Minnesota authorizes the commis-
sioner of conservation and any city or village in
which a- state park is located to enter into a co-
operative agreement for the management, main-
tenance and improvement of the park by the mu-
nicipality.

>1: * :1:

Recreation had an important place in the Gov-
ernor’s Conference on Youth in New Jersey in
May. '

a: :1: *

The Washington State Legislature appropriated
"$250,060 for state aid to local school recreation.
This appropriation is to be administered through
the state department of education.

*=!<*

.5.

Recently in both Louisiana and Ohio there have
been meetings of representatives of state agencies

180

interested in recreation. In Ohio the Secretary of
the.State Post-War Program Commission, the Di-
rector of Conservation, the Director of Agricul-
tural Extension, the Director of Special and Adult
Education of Ohio State University, and a repre-
sentative of the Commissioner of Education met
at a luncheon to discuss together their respective
programs related to recreation. The National Rec-
reation Association was also, represented at the

luncheon.
>1: * :1:

In Louisiana William W. Wells, Director of the
State Parks Commission, was host at Fountaine-
bleau State Park to representatives of the follow—
ing state agencies: Department of Public W orks,
Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, Department
of Highways, Department of Education, State
Library, Department of Commerce and Industry,
Louisiana Art Commission, Agricultural Extension
Service, and Louisiana State University. A repre-
sentative of the National Recreation Association
was present at this meeting. Consideration was
given to present programs and to some of the
needs for more work. The group decided to meet
again in the fall for another informal discussion
and accepted Mr. Wells’ offer to be host again at

another state park at that time.
* >1: *

A summer conference on community recreation
is to be held late in July at Estes Park in Colo-
rado. Emphasis is to be on the problems of smaller
communities in Colorado. Sponsors include the
Bureau of State and Community Service of the
University of Colorado, the Agricultural Extenl-

sion Service and the University of Denver.
>1: * *

Cliff Kerby, formerly Director of Recreation in
Gainesville, Florida, has accepted the position as
state supervisor of physical education and recrea-
tion in the Florida Department of Public In-
struction.

RECREATION

l

l

 

ARLY IN 1944 High School students in Sparks,
Nevada,* began to hold meetings to discuss
the possibility of a youth center. A group of

Camp Fire Girl leaders became interested and went
with a committee of students to the City Hall to
present the. case.

The mayor arranged for a public meeting. It was
well—attended by both adults and students. As a
result an adult committee was named to investigate
the matter. This committee looked around for a
building and located a store that had been badly
damaged by fire. The city agreed to lease the
building as long as it was used for recreation.

The adult committee then set out to raise an
operating fund for repairs. They got less than
$1,000. It was difficult to find workmen. When
workers were finally rounded up, it was found
that costs were very high. Under these conditions
and with so much necessary renovation to be .ac-
complished, only the barest necessities could be
provided for.

When the building was again usable, the adult
committee put in a snack bar to meet current main-
tenance bills. Trouble didn’t wait long to make
itself felt. There was no money for a vent and the
smoke and grease from the hamburgers soon made
the place very unattractive. High school girls
wanted to work at the bar, but because this income
was the only money available for maintenance the
adults were afraid to trust inexperience. The result

was an open break between oldsters and young—
sters.

Other well-intentioned errors crowded hard
upon the first. There was no planned program.
All the work was done by adults. There was no
age limit and, as the smaller fry—attracted by 10
cent hotdogs—trooped in, the high schoolers
trooped out in disgust. The place was far from
attractive. The only furnishings were long benches,
brown against the drab walls. There was no clear—
ance of dates and no participation by the young-
sters in the planning of special events. Often there
were more sponsors on hand than participants.
Bills were not paid promptly, accounts were poorly

kept and the organization was soon in discredit all
up and down Main Street.

One after another members resigned'from the
board of directors until there were not enough for
the stipulated quorum.

In August 1945 all the organizations—church,
civic, lodge and unions—were asked to send dele-
gates to a meeting for considering the problem.

 

. *Population: 5,318 in 1940.

' IULY 1947

Failure to Success

By BEATRICE KEALING

There are 50 such groups in Sparks. Fifteen peo-
ple responded. A committee was named to talk to
the War Chest Drive about another place. The
place was secured but the town as a whole was
opposed to the idea and only $700 was raised.

"The new board was, however, determined to
make a success of the venture. A committee of
students met with the adults and drew up a consti—
tution and a set of house rules.

Four mothers who had sons in the service and
knew the value of USO’s determined to make it
an attractive place, first of all. All furniture stores
were called upon and asked for odd pieces to dress
the place up. The Governor of the state sent a
$10 bill which bought bright paint. The decrepit
old piano came up shining in a coat of Kelly green.
Eager beavers, young and old, scrubbed, painted,
sawed, nailed, upholstered. There was no planned
program, but when the place was reopened for a
big community Christmas party everyone was
justly proud of it.

Now there was a lovely place but no funds to
maintain it. So one of the senior boy's wrote a
play, Talent Unlimited, and began to use the center
for practicing dance routines, choruses, designing
scenery and the like. A talented woman gave freely
of her time to help with rehearsals and on Febru-
ary 12 and 13 the play was given. It netted the
center over $400—and sold the project to the town.

The play’s director was so anxious to see the
place a success that she gave her time for 10
months at a salary of $75 a month. During that
time an old lean-to at the back was transformed
into a clever snack bar; two pool tables were
secured from the Reno Army Air Base; photog-
raphy classes were started; a weekly column was
written by the youngsters for the local paper; a
pageant was prepared and presented for the Labor
Day celebration; a chess tournament, ping-pong
and swimming meets were arranged.

Success

This fall the drive for funds brought in nearly

$3,000. A joint meeting of the school board and
city council promised that the project would be
given a place on the city budget for 1948. On Janu-

181

ary first a public-spirited man in the community
offered $150 per month to pay for a full—time di-
rector until such time as the city can put the di-
rector’s salary on a budget basis.

The 20-30 Club and the Veterans of World
‘ War II have gotten solidly behind the project and
help with the dances, boxing matches and the like.

We now have movies and story hour every Sat-
urday afternoon for the “teeny—agers” (5 to 12).
The high school committee sponsors two parties a
month for the junior high and the building is avail-
able at all times not scheduled for teen-age doings,
for the use of‘ such groups as Camp Fire, Scouts,
afternoon meetings arid the like. Now it is truly
a community center. The average daily attendance
has increased from 15 or 20 to 85 or 90 with 180

to 256 at dances. We adults feel that the success -

of our venture, after its bad start, is due to the
following things:

The young people have a place to be proud of.
It is attractive, bright and colorful.

We have leased them the snack bar on a 40-60
basis. They have taken 40 per cent of the proceeds
to be divided among those who work there and
have paid all bills, as well as the heat,, light, gar-
bage removal and telephone bills for the center.

We have installed a telephone so that parents

 

All in a Day's Work

DURING A RECENT VISIT to a near west side park, the following incidents took place in a period of

one hour.

SCENE I—PARK SUPERVISER’S OFFICE I
A ten-year-old girl rushed into the Supervisor’s office with a tearful plea to call the neighbor- '

hood priest because Grandma was very sick.

SCENE II—FIVE MINUTES LATER
An elderly housewife timidly entered the office, crying because her purse was snatched from her _
arm as she was crossing the avenue. The purse contained $150 in cash and $1, 500 in bonds. Police were i

notified.

SCENE III—SAME SETTING
Two former park boys, one now a State Representative, the other a potential winner in the
Alderman’s election next spring, dropped in to admire the new football uniforms they had purchased
for the park team. They had been sold by the Park Supervisor on the idea of spending fourteen hun-
dred dollars for the football gear. Seemed pleased to be offered the opportunity to be first.

SCENE IV
A twelve-year-old boy comes in with a broken arm. First aid given. Squad called.

SCENE V

Some minutes later. Park Supervisor has relaxed at his desk. The ten-year-old girl returns and .
asks Supervisor to “call Mamma by the shirt factory because Grandma died.”

the colleges attempting to set up recreation majors that will turn out of their classrooms the all—around
social engineers needed to staff our community buildings.

From Chicago Park District Weekly Adi-zzfnistratlve Bulletin

These incidents all add up to the complex work day of a Park Supervisor. We sympathize with I
12

1Q?

can call their youngsters when necessary.

We have not mixed age groups but rather have
made the place available to different groups at
different times.

We have found that the volunteer system of
supervision is very often apt to become snooper-
vision. What is everybody’s business is apt to be
no one’s responsibility. A paid leader is a must.

We have had very little to do with planning the
program but have allowed the center to be the
youngsters’. They have been made to feel that its
success or failure is up to them. We have furnished
the tools and stand by ready to give help and
advice when they ask us.

In the background there is a trained adult
quietly guiding the youthful energies in the right

the meetings have been given the fullest possible
publicity. We have given the town to understand
that we feel when we handle five cents worth of
public funds we_ are willing to give an account. We
have invited all organized groups to send a dele-
gate to have a voice in saying how all moneys
shall be spent. '
We have given the greatest amount of publicity

I
channels.
All financial records as well as the minutes of ‘
l
possible to the work we are doing. _

 

RECREATION

Sports for
Te’en-Ag'ers

By WYNNE ARNHOLTER
Teen-age Supervisor. Indianapolis City
Department. Parks and Recreation

HE TEEN-AGER can be reached through sports.

Recreation for teen—agers in athletic tourna—

ments and leagues has become a paramount
activity of increasing importance in Indianapolis
through the coordination and sponsorship of the
department of parks and recreation.

As soon as the playground season closed late last
summer, attention was focused upon the formation
of four football leagues. More than 800 boys par-
ticipated and the matter of obtaining equipment for

them challenged the resourcefulness of the entire,

department. Talks were made before luncheon
clubs, collections were taken up at women’s groups,
and numerous organizations were approached with
the slogan, “Equip a boy to play football,” stress-
ing the point that it was saner to help a boy direct
his physical drives into the vigor of football games
than to condemn him for misbehavior. The leagues
formed included boys from I3 to 20 inclusive.
Faced with the problem of matching these varied
ages for team play, K. Mark Cowen, recreation
superintendent, set up the coefficient system for
classification. The formula to determine team as-
signment was the age of the boy
in months, added to his height in
half inches, added to his actual
weight to give his total points.
Thi5°system satisfied everybody
concerned and weekly tourna-
ments continued until the weather.
became too bad for out-of—door
play.

Volley ball teams were the
. chief interest for girls in the early
autumn and a girls’ league was
set up which lasted over a period
of six weeks. Teams with both
boys and girls on the teams were
formed in some centers, but there
was not enough interest in co-
recreational volley ball for a
league.

The Hoosier passion for bas— -
ketball was very active in the

IULY 1947

recreation department and the basketball season
was rushed by an early organization of boys’ and
girls’ teams. The city~owned gymnasiums were so
jammed with PAL club and other leagues, that the
gyms were opened on Sunday afternoons for some
of the teen-age leagues. Games were scheduled over
a two months period closing with tournaments.
The city athletic supervisor drew up all schedules
for the boys’ games. Leagues were scheduled to
accommodate unior as well as senior high schoolers.

Individual Activities

Bowling came into its own in the teen-age sports
world with a one-round Sponsored tournament for
which a local store donated trophies. Interest in-
creased so much that a 12-week league was sched—
uled at one of the local commercial alleys. Time there
is set aside for the teen-age league, and a special
rate is given. This is an interesting event and truly
co-recreational. Some teams include both boys and
girls, and there are all-boy as well as all-girl teams
in the league. The age range is from the team of
pin-boys who are all II, 12 and I3, to the re—
turned veterans’ team of older teen-agers. This
group is really playing for the fun of it, because
there will be no trophies or awards and there is no
entry fee. The only recognition will be certificates
which will be presented at their bowling banquet
to the three high point men and women, to the
members of the team winning the most games, and

Comparing scores

 

183

to the team which is voted as showing the best
sportsmanship.

Fencing is another brand new teen-age sport
which includes boys and girls together. This ac-
tivity is limited by the fact that equipment is not
available and it is hoped that before long the group
can be expanded.

Table tennis tournaments have been conducted
as regular teen-age activities. Several hundred
youngsters were attracted by the most recent tour-
nament which went into four semi—finals with
trophies awarded by a local store to the finalists.

Roller skating has remained a social rather than
a competitive activity, but ice skating races were
held last year for the first time in the history of
city recreation sports at Lake Sullivan—a park-
owned artificial lake. Finalists won their trophies
as a part of the recreation-sponsored Ice-O—Rama,
a combination ice show, sports event, and spec-
tacle at the Coliseum enclosed rink. The Ice-O—
Rama will be presented for the third consecutive
year and will be an infantile paralysis benefit event
sponsored by a local newspaper this year.

Good Old Summertime

Summer tournaments included tennis, kick-ball,
swimming and track. Kick-ball, which was set up
originally for the pre-teen-agers, was found to be
especially popular with teen-age girls. Badminton
and shuflieboard tournaments were held in some
spots on a boy and girl team basis, but were never
expanded into city-wide events. Softball teams for
boys as well as girls developed into major summer
activities and baseball leagues, which were numer-
ous for the very young through the teen-age
groups, were "coordinated with the Junior Baseball
Inc. organization which is now integrated with the
city recreation department.

Teen-age golf tournaments were well received

and players demanded opportunities to participate '

in various classifications including mixed boy and
girl foursomes, all-boy and all-girl singles and
foursomes. Plans are under way to give increased

opportunities for teen-age golf enthusiasts this
coming season.

Horseshoe and croquet tournaments were of in-
terest to teen-agers, and city-wide horseshoe play
attracted several hundred, mostly boys. There were
a few strong-armed girls who voiced their desire
to be included. Marbles tournaments and kite days
were earmarked for the younger group, but teen-

age boys and girls signed up eagerly and had their
places in the events.

184

Boxing

(‘

Boxing has continued to be a popular teen-age
sport. Cooperation has been given to the Golden
Glove and other sponsored events and some city-
wide and center—sponsored bouts have been quite
successful. In one center a former boxing cham-
pion is a part-time employee and there boxing has
become a major interest where aspiring champions
meet daily to be coached for regular bouts. The
mayor of Indianapolis called a meeting of repre-
sentative citizens together recently in his office
and organized a citizens boxing committee whose
purpose will be to arrange and help finance city-
wide boxing throughout the entire community as
an important means of preventing delinquency.
Opportunities for teen-agers to participate in all of
the various sports as well as the social and cultural
activities which make for a well-rounded per-
sonality is the aim of the recreation department
and it is the belief of all concerned that the con-
stant reduction .‘of delinquency rates among teen-
agers in Indianapolis is greatly due to such op-
portunities.

 

 

“Miss Minnie”

NNOUNCEMENT was made recently that Minnie

M. Wagner has been appointed Superintend-

ent Emeritus of the Memphis, Tennessee, Recre-

ation Department. Miss Wagner has for 32 years

served the playgrounds of Memphis, the last 20
years as superintendent.

She has seen the city’s recreation system in-
crease from three to thirty playgrounds and under
her leadership the playgrounds of Memphis have
gained a national reputation. There has been a
very particular creative quality in the leadership
Miss Wagner has given.

 

Strike Two!

ow AVAILABLE in sporting goods stores through-
N out the country are the 1947 editions of the
Famous Slugger Year Book and the Ojjicial Soft—
ball Rules, published annually by Hillerich and
Bradsby Co., makers of Louisville Slugger bats.
The i947 Year Book is full of information on
the last World Series and there are All-Star rec— I
ords illustrated with pictures of the major and
minor league champions. An outstanding feature
is “How to Hit,” by George Sisler, one of base-
ball’s most famous players. The Rules book also
contains pictures of winning teams and records of
the 1946 tournaments.

RECREATION

 

Outline of Procedure for Establishing
A Community Recreation Program

I. Assembly—Bringing together by influential laymen, after preliminary individual conferences and
general publicity, interested individuals, governmental officials, and representatives of appropriate
and more important community agencies and organizations. A tentative plan of organization and
action should be ready for proposal at this meeting.

\

II. Planning Committee—Composed of a representative from each of the above groUps, to serve as a
fact-finding, surveying unit, headed by an energetic and capable chairman who can give freely of
his time for community planning and organization. The work will probably be more effective if

the Planning Committee or the executive subcommittee of the planning group does not exceed
seven in number.

III. Survey—Made by or under the supervision of the Planning Committee, to determine:
I. Availability and accessibility of existing areas and facilities
2. Possibility of strengthening present program, areas and facilities
3. Additional expansion needed to meet demand
4. Cost of additional expansion; sources and methods by which cost to be underwritten
5. Present leisure time activities of children, youth and adults

6. Recreational interests of all age groups and their activity preference under proposed program

I IV. Local Organization for Recreation—Whether it is decided after a study of state legislation and local
_ conditions that the recreation program is to be carried on by a separate local recreation board or
under an existing park board or school board, or in some other way, there should be adopted the

necessary local ordinance and~genera1 policy and administrative regulations.

V. Budget—Annual funds specifically earmarked for recreation from (1) tax levy, (2) appropria—

tion, (3) public subscription, (4) Community Chest, (5) combination of above. (It should be
remembered that bond issues are usually for capital expenditures.)

VI. Trained Leadership—A full-time superintendent with necessary full—time and part-time assistants.

'VII. Advisory Committee—The original Planning Committee would be a logical choice in this capacity".
It could serve, also, as a source through which the recreation program can be interpreted to the
public and the public’s desires concerning the program interpreted to the leaders who formulate

and execute it.

VIII. Balanced Program of Wholesome Activities—Activities attractive to all, regardless of age, sex, color,
religion, or nationality.

IX. Integration and Cooperation with Other Agencies———For example: (I) Department of Health, (2)
Churches, (3) Schools, etc.

X. Secure Advice from National Recreation Association' 315 Fourth Avenue, New York IO, N. Y.,
and from other available sources.

 

' JULY 1947 185

Looking Forward BackWard*

By CORINNIE FONDE

HEN MR. VAN ARSDALE gave me this sub-
w ject I wondered if he thought I was like the

proverbial school teacher with eyes in the
back of my head. But I decided it was because I
am both a has-been and an incurable optimist.

There’s a compensation in having reached the
age of reminiscence. I can speak frankly and h0pe
not to offend because I utter honest conviction at
the end of a career. I can say what the future
should hold without having to prove that it can
be. accomplished. I can leave that to you!

I can look about 40 years back in the recreation
movement. But I like to chase rainbows and I
believe there is a pot of gold—for municipal recre-
ation. And so I look forward to the time when
public recreation will be understood for what it is
—a necessity for all of the people. A good many
years ago Dr. Richard Cabot in his book, What
Men Live By, said we live by love, play, work and
worship. If that is true play takes the lead because
it is not just charity for the underprivileged. It is
not just for little children but for the whole family,
for all people regardless of age, race, sex, creed,
condition in life or special interest.

The day will come when you will never hear
“Nobody had to teach me to play.” A very fine
president of our Houston Recreation Board once
said he had a caustic and a diplomatic answer to
that. His caustic answer was, “And just look at
you!” His diplomatic answer was, “But just look
who you are!”

I remember back in 1919 hearing Joseph Lee,
for many years the great President of the Na—
tional Recreation Association, give his Commu-
nity, Home of Lost Talents speech. Tonight I say
to you in his words that every talent in any indi-
vidual that is lost to society makes that individual
and his community less acceptable to himself, to
his fellow man, and to God. And it is during their
leisure that most people have" the time to pursue
their talents.

I look forward, before too long, to a clearly de—
fined recreation profession of men and women who
are aristocrats of the mind and hand and soul,

 

“Address delivered at the Southwest District Recreation Confer-
ence, Galveston, Texas, March 7, 1947.

186

selected because of qualities of leadership, trained
and experienced in the arts of leisure and of leisure
time leadership of a clientele interested in joining
with others in organizations, sports, crafts, the
arts, music, drama, the natural sciences, social rec-
reation and all other leisure time pursuits. In other
words I look forward to a skilled profession which
believes in provision for each activity in which
people may be interested in their Spare time, a pro-
fession that believes in the development of all of the
talents of all of the people as one of the necessities
of life, a profession trained to discover and develop
these talents in people. ‘

I look back to the days of the National Recrea-
tion Training School of the National Recreation
Association, which gave us young men and women
of college and recreation leadership background
with an added year of highly specialized training
under the best authorities in recreation techniques
and administration. I_ look forward to the time
when colleges may offer something comparable to
this. Then ours may evolve into an established
profession.

If we are to have and hold recreation leaders
capable of filling that order I predict compensation
for them on a high professional level that permits
them to'move in any desirable circle without em—
barrassment, so that they may enjoy a position of
respect in the community as men measure these
things, themselves experience the better things of
life and constantly restore themselves with study,
travel and the many arts of leisure time. We can-
not give to others that which we do not have our—
selves.

Adequately Staffed Departments

I look forward to recreation departments suf—
ficiently well—staffed so that a young man in the
profession may have some evenings with his girl
or his family without a guilty conscience, and a
young woman worker may refresh her spirit with
a little fun on her own account. I remember that
as a young worker some of my most successful
activities were patterned after my own good times.

I look forward to many more volunteer recrea-
tion leaders to supplement the employed recreation
staff. I remember V. K. Brown of the Chicago
Park District telling at a National Recreation Con—
gress of his “nuts with bugs”—people with hobbies

RECREATION

 

who were so ardent in their pursuit ,of them that
they volunteered to lead others in them in the
Chicago recreation centers. Later I saw some of
these volunteers at work with their groups and I
can tell you he had something!

Program

I look forward to the recreation department uni-
versally offering to all of the pe0ple a well—rounded
program of physical activities that does not exploit
the physically fit or neglect the physically unfit but
that makes every human body a dwelling place
where line minds and souls may reside with dignity,
vitality and ease. I look forward in every depart-
ment to arts and crafts and mechanical exploration
and drama and music and dance in all forms that
are truly. creative and recreative. Unless people
can progress in these activities they cease to be
interested in them.

There must be social recreation that has plenty
of allure but leaves “no aftertaste of bitterness.”
And young people really want it that way. Youth
has its ideals. All people have and they look at
those who would be their leaders through those
glasses.

The program of the future will provide oppor—
tunity for exploration in the many branches of the
natural sciences where people may come to enjoy
the wonders of their universe, with leaders capable
of interpreting them.

Facilities and Equipment

In order that he may offer such a program, I
look forward to adequate and proper tools at the
command of each recreation leader. I look forward
to facilities planned and built with the best modern
scientific. knowledge to make them functionally ef—
ficient, facilities maintained in a highly efficient
manner for maximum use—made ready for each
group. I groan inwardly whenever I enter a drab,
makeshift or dirty facility. '

I believe that from the office to the playground
every recreation facility of the future will always
be beautiful—even the athletic facilities. Location,
trees, grass, shrubbery, flowers, pot plants—every-
thing to make for beautiful and livable surround—
ings will be considered so that they may bring an
ennobling, enriching, as well as body—building ex-
perience. One of the best swimmers and divers I
have known has often bemoaned to me the awful
glare and complete absence of beauty and refresh-
ment for the eye and opportunity for rest for the
body in far too many of our swimming pools.

I look forward to the accepted recreation build-
ing as a temple of leisure time activities—clean,

5

IULY 1947

attractive, comfortable, adequate. Acoustics, light-
ing, heating, cooling, beautiful effects—all these
things will be considered in planning and in day
by day maintenance, else how can we hope to take

our proper place with the constantly mounting
commercial recreations?

Equipment

All recreation facilities—indoor and outdoor—
must be equipped with everything necessary to the
expression of the legitimate desires of the little
children, boys, girls, men and women of the com-
munity. Pianos, work benches, looms, tools, light-
ing equipment and stage properties are just as
important as balls and bats.

I remember my first playground. It was a bor-
rowed, ploughed-up lot. The boys and I made it
into a place to play with whatever we could beg
and borrow in the way of help and materials.

I remember converting an abandoned incinerator
where refuse had been destroyed into a recreation
playhouse where people might re-create themselves.

Sounds well, doesn’t it?

But recreation has come of age. It must grow up ‘
in the minds of the powers that be. The great city
factories and skyscrapers are’not built that way.
And the development of the human race is more
important than the development and vending of
any commodity!

Organization

I believe in the organization of the people to
discuss and determine their recreational desires
and to give backing to public recreation, in con-
tinuing boards whose members are chosen for their
high quality of citizenship and intelligent and un-
selfish interest in public recreation.

I believe in neighborhood organizations to inter-
pret the work of the recreation center to the neigh-
borhood and the neighborhood’s needs to the rec-
reation administration.

I believe in working for the understanding by all
organized civic groups ——-such as the downtown
luncheon clubs, PTA’s, Federation of Women’s
Clubs and the like—so that they know the im-
portance of public recreation and the part their
memberships should play in bringing it to its full-

est realization—e.g. in voting bonds for recreation
facilities.

Budgets

I look forward to assured budgets from year to
year. My own belief is in the Special tax method.
But, however it is provided, there must be a rea—
sonably known budget from year to year that
permits long range planning.

187

National Recreation Association

I look forward to a closer federation of profes—
sional recreation workers and recreation depart-
ments throughout our country through the National
Recreation Association—that great voluntary, re-
search, interpretive and coordinating agency that
has led the way for 40 years.

I hope to see an increasingly strong National
Association spreading the gospel of public recrea-
tion and creating intelligent understanding of it

. so universally that no city, town or village can fail
to provide recreation opportunities as one of the
necessities of life in its every neighborhood—none
too rich, none too poor. By the same token, no
short-sighted politician may then cripple or destroy
a fine municipal recreation department—because

the people will know what they want.

And no state government or government at
Washington can fail to recognize municipal rec-
reation needs on the level of public health, public
education and public libraries.

I remember reading back in 1910 a little essay
called The Greeting to Life by a more or less
obscure author. She said we might greet life as a
business, as a profession or as an art. Of a busi-
ness we asked money, of a profession reputation.
an art only fnljillment. I look forward to a recre-
ation profession that has money because it cannot
do the job without it; that gains the reputation of
helping all human beings to mould themselves into
patterns acceptable to themselves, their fellow men

and their Maker—a profession that greets life as
an art!

PT" As You Like It

By ROBERT J. KANE
Director, Department of Physical Education and Athletics

Cornell University
.- lthaca. New Yorlt

N EXPERIMENT in required physical recreation
A for men at Cornell which takes the line of
least resistance is proving to be successful. It
allows for freedom of choice in the type of activity.
If a boy wants to play tennis, he can play tennis——
or golf, squash, badminton, volley ball—he has his
choice. He must put in three hours a week at his
chosen sport, however, and it must be supervised.

The aspect of drudgery so often associated with
a “PT” requirement is thus eliminated and there is
greater benefit derived because, enjoying the game
or activity, the boy plays up to the hilt. Physical
condition is achieved without conscious effort.
More important, however, is the fact that the boys
are learning to play games which can be useful all

their lives, for carry-over sports are stressed.

Cornell had no requirement for men in physical
education before the war. Shortly after Pearl Har—
bor, a program of physical conditioning was initi-
ated. This was a toughening routine consisting of
plenty of running, calisthenics, and commando
work. Most of the boys entered into it with gusto
because they were interested in preparing them-

selves for the service.

It was not long after the Army and Navy col-
lege units were established on campus before a dif-
ference in attitude was noticed. There was consid-

 

*Physical training.

188

erable resistance to a daily grind of rigorous physi-
cal work, but when this was relieved by games and
running races, there was much more enthusiasm.
It was discovered, too, that when the activity was
made competitive there was greater accomplishment
in conditioning because the boys worked harder.

As in all things there is one exception made with
respect to freedom of choice in activity, and that is
for the non-swimmer. Every boy must be able to
pass the Red Cross swimming requirement before
he is allowed to take part in other sports.

This would be aptly termed a recreation pro-
gram. We strive to teach games which engage in—
terest and can be useful always. The emphasis is
on such carry—over sports as golf, tennis, badmin-
ton, paddle ball, handball, squash, volley ball, bowl-
ing, fencing, swimming, skiing, apparatus, tum-
bling, weight lifting, and horseback riding.

\Vithin the next year a gymnasium is to be built
at Cornell which is designed to foster the carry-
over sport idea. This building will offer every male
undergraduate the opportunity to learn a sport
which he can play after he graduates.

There is no presumption on our part that this is
a unique or radical type of program. It developed
as a result of our experience here and we find it
worthwhile for both health and educational values.
I t makes sense to us and to the boys who are re-
quired to take it. That is why it is successful.

RECREATION

l

 

 

Children in Illinois
Like to Dance!

By RAY O. DUNCAN
State Director of Health and
Physical Education

HYTHMS HAVE GROWN in popularity more
R than any other activity of the physical
education program in the schools of Illi—
nois. Most of our people feel that at least 50
percent of the time allotted to directed physi-
cal activity in the primary grades and 40 per—.
cent in the intermediate grades should be de-
voted to some form of rhythmic activity. In
the high schools, rhythms are recognized as a
must in the girls’ program and more and more
schools are realizing the contribution they can
make to the boys who participate.

The interest in square dancing is keen.
Classroom teachers are finding that they can
present a program even though they have not had
extensive training in physical education. In most
communities there is some person who has had
experience in calling square dances who will be
glad to assist the teacher in developing such a
program in her school.

Teacher Training

In Illinois we are providing in—service training
in physical education (including rhythms) for the
classroom teacher, Demonstration clinics are held
in all counties. Here members of our department
demonstrate basic techniques of teaching physical
education. At least half of the demonstration is in
rhythms. The meeting place for these clinics is an
actual school room, recreation room, or gym—
nasium, depending upon the facilities which the
teachers in attendance will have at their disposal.
The teachers assemble at the school selected and
the children of that school participate in the dem-
onstration. Fundamental rhythms are taught so
that teachers may see how to develop such a pro-
gram with and without the use of a piano or record
player. Various teaching aids are given the teachers
such as a list of records which can be secured and
a list of reference books which contain folk and
square dancing. We have conducted 225 such dem—

IULY 1947

 

Swing your partner!

onstration clinics in Illinois and have had Over
20,000 elementary teachers in attendance. :

Our teacher training institutions are cooperating
by conducting extension courses in physical edu-
cation in all areas of the state.

We have had one demonstration clinic for high
school women teachers of physical education who
are untrained in this field and are teaching 011
emergency approval. Fifty-live teachers from the
high schools in six counties attended this all-day

meeting. The teachers came out on the gymnasium

floor and participated in the demonstration. Mem—
bers of the staff of Illinois State Normal University
assisted our department in this clinic. It was very
successful, and we plan to conduct similar clinics
in all areas of the state where there are emergency
teachers.

Our high schools which have trained women
physical education teachers have good programs in
square dancing. There are hundreds of small ele-
mentary schools in Illinois which do not employ a
physical education teacher or supervisor. Conse—
quently, it has been our aim through in-service
training to help classroom teachers prepare them-
selves to introduce folk and square dancing into
all of our elementary schools. Rhythms are part

' 1'8'9

of the program in many of our schools and the
list of schools with such a program is increasing
each year. .

The Arnold School, Springfield, Illinois, is a
good example of what can be done. This is a small
elementary school of 27 pupils housing grades one
to four. The teacher is a superior classroom teacher
but does not have training in physical education.
She enrolled in an extension course in elementary
school physical education conducted by the Illinois
State Normal University in Springfield the fall
semester of 1946. A member of our department
taught the rhythms in the course. Before the end of
the semester, the classroom teacher had a daily
program of physical education in operation in the
Arnold School and was teaching square dancing
with unusual success.

The mother of one of the children supplied a
record player, and a set of records, Square Dancing
by Carson and Robinson, with dance calls by
Lawrence V. Loy was secured. The Arnold School
is a one-room building with a minimum of room.
The desks are movable and space for square danc-
ing is secured by moving all the desks to one side
of the room. To date, grades I and 2 have learned
“Buffalo Boy” and “Dive for the Oyster.” These
dances may appear to be somewhat advanced for
the first and second grades but the children enjoy
them and perform them in typical six and seven—
year-old style. Grades 3 and 4 dance “First Two
Ladies Cross Over,” “Oh, Susanna,” “Darling

Nellie Gray,” Part I and 2 of “Dive for the
Oyster.”

After learning these dances, some of the older
children suggested that they work out an original

. routine. The following routine has been worked

out and is danced to “The Little Brown Jug.” The

children named this dance, “The Arnold Star.”

First couple out- and swing.
Down the center and split the ring.
The lady go right and the gent go left.
Meet your partner, meet her with a twirl.
Chase the rabbit, chase the squirrel, chase

the pretty girl around the world.
Swing on the Corners when you come around.
Now go home and swing your own.
Everybody swing.

(Couples 2, 3 and 4 repeat same action.)

Promenade, lady in the lead in a cowboy style.
Stop and swing just once in awhile.

(Continue this action until all have respective

partners)
Promenade, you know where and I don’t care.

At a recent school party, the parents participated
in the dances and everybody had a good time. The
Arnold School program is an example of what a
large number of other elementary schools are doing
in Illinois. We believe that square dancing has
tremendous educational value in the development
of coordination, body control, cooperation, agility,
and social attitudes. We consider the “social hun-
ger” need more important in the elementary school
than “competition,” and we are developing our pro-
grams of physical education with that in mind.

 

Conference Report

HE SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS of America, who comprise the American Association of School Ad-

ministrators, held their first national convention since 1942, in Atlantic City, N. J. About 6,000 public
school administrators attended, and the current interest in public education problems at this time resulted
in a very active and interesting meeting. Some of the major problems which competed for the attention
of the educators were: teacher salaries, school curriculum revision, school building construction, federal
aid for education, and teacher strikes. '

Although the present emergency in education demanded the major part of the attention of the
conference, recreation and training for leisure were not neglected. Fred Waring emphasized the value of
group singing in the school program. Mrs. Eugene Meyer questioned the trend toward consolidation of
small schools, bringing out the need for community schools that stabilize family life and draw parents
into the school program. She emphasized that every sizable village should have its own school. Other
individuals brought out many other phases of the responsibility of the schools in recreation. Emphasis
was placed on increasing opportunities for creative effort in music, drama, the arts and various hobbies;
cooperation with other community agencies by sharing the use of the school plant with them for recrea-
tion purposes; the particular need for opportunities for recreation and leisure time for rural youth; the
full use of outdoor camping in the educational program; and the value of a recreation emphasis in adult
education.

190 RECREATION

 

 

The Veterans of Foreign Wars, Place
in Community Recreation

By LAWRENCE A. ROGERS
Director. Athletics and Recreation
Veterans of Foreign Wars of United States

atoll for collecting thoughts and planning
futures. There was plenty of time to think and
and to talk about those thoughts.
Even though most conversations started out with
a frank discussion of Petty girls, they always ended
up with each G.I. telling what he wanted to do
when he got home. Uppermost in every G.I.’s
thoughts was how he was going to make life easy
for “Mom” or “Dad” or how he was going to take
the wife and kids out of their crowded living quar—
ters and really start to live. At the drop of any-
body’s hat a G.I. was ready to show you his plans
for the garden, the fireplace, the kitchen, the bath—
room, or the recreation room. Many a time when
on guard duty he had traced these plans in the
coral sand with a stick.

THERE IS NO PLACE on earth like a lonely Pacific

Homecoming for Jim

Jim was no different from the rest of the G.I.’s—
except that he had the finest two-year—old boy in
the whole world. All you had to do was ask him
and he would prove it to you with a handful of
photographs, and brother, you had really started a
conversation about Jim’s post—war plans. Jim’s
plans centered around a five-room bungalow with
a picket fence to hold Jim, Jr.

Came, at last, that long. awaited day when they
said, “Well done” and gave Jim his discharge. He
got home as fast as he could, armed with his dis—
charge and all the promises of “Nothing is too
good for our boys.” Instead of the five-room house
he had planned, all Jim could find was one room
on the third fioor rear, with community bath fa—
cilities. It wasn’t being stuck up there that bothered
Jim and his wife—it was the fact that they couldn’t
bear to see Jim, Jr., couped up in one small room.

Now the town that Jim lived in was an average
size midwestern town. There was a Chamber of
Commerce, a Lions Club, Rotary, and other civic-
minded organizations, but through the war years
all thought of civic enterprise was sacrificed to get
the defense plants rolling, and as a result these

IULY 1947

organizations were functioning just 50-50. The
mayor, in one of his frequent outbursts of patriot-
ism, had donated the one park area in the town for
a housing project for the army of defense workers
that had poured in upon them. The war was over
but the workers stayed on. The park where Jim
played as a kid and where he expected Jim, Jr.
to play was still filled with houses.

During the war years no one had given thought
to the need for community recreation. -No one
thought of it now until a wave of youthful lawless-
ness swept Jim’s town and one night the son of
the leading druggist was killed in a robbery.

In Jim’s town, the Veterans of Foreign Wars
Post, like other civic-minded organizations, had
all but folded up during the war. Now World War
II veterans were joining this organization and the
post was expanding in membership and program.
Part of the program was the VFW Athletic Asso—
ciation: Jim was one of the new comrades in the
post. When a committee was appointed to see
what the post could do to help fight the wave of
juvenile crime, Jim was on that committee. Here
is what the committee found. The only‘ available
amusement in town was the? local movie theater
where you had to stand in line from one show to
the next. All other entertainment was confined to
the beer emporiums and pool,halls which were
much too crowded with .youngsters for any one
else to get in. N 0 park area of any description was
available where a person could relax. No area of
any kind was available where kids could swim,
play ball, get off the streets. _

The post, through its athletic association, con-
ducted a survey of the recreation needs in Jim’s
town. These needs were made public and pressure
was brought to bear politically. An area was set
aside, construction begun, and n0w Jim’s kid—as
well as all the other kids in town—can get out-of-
doors and play in safe, supervised playgrounds. A
recreation leader was hired by the city and soon
athletic leagues came into existence. Then came the
complete field of recreation. Everyone found some
outlet, whether in drama, hobbies, music, or ath—
letics. The local crime wave disappeared.

Jim’s post, as well as hundreds of other com—
rades and communities, found the answer to their
recreation needs in the program planned by the

191

VFW Athletic Association. One of the first dis—
'coveries that Jim made was that he himself was
included in the recreation program because they
had him playing on the post'softball team. There—
fore, he felt that the program was meaning some—
thing to him personally and as a result it got Jim’s
complete support. It was through a realization of
this fact that the VFW Athletic Association was
established. '

At the time the athletic program was inaugu—
rated, it was felt there were two immediate needs.
First of all there were the returning servicemen,
who would make up better than 80 percent of our
membership, to be considered. The average age of
these new members was found to be less than 30.
Therefore a highly organized active program to
meet their needs had to be deve10ped. There was,
too, the .youth program to be considered. The
biggest factor in a youth program is leadership.
To provide trained leaders was our first and has
been our constant stumbling block. Volumes have
been written on the subject, but we knew that few
if any of our potential leaders would really read or
study the requirements of recreation leadership.

We realized that men who are actively partici-
pating in a program will give that program their
full support and that these men are the natural
leaders for our youth program. Therefore, through
the VFW Athletic Association, we have provided
an active athletic program for our own members,
and at the same time we have an on—the—job train-
ing program whereby our men are unconsciously
receiving the training necessary for their future
youth leadership.

From a small beginning the association has pros
gressed in less than a year’s time until there are
45 states working on the program. It was because
of our plans for mass participation and the spirit
of amateurism that the Amateur Athletic Union
of the United States has recognized our efforts and
accepted us as an allied member of that organiza-
tion.

The Veterans of Foreign Wars Athletic Asso-
ciation is fast becoming the largest organized group
of sports-minded men in the United States. As we
build and grow it is our earnest ambition to be
able to use our influence to make our people more
conscious of the need for community recreation.

 

 

Park-School Planik

By ROBERT E: EVERLY

Superintendent of Parks' Glencoe. Illinois
Vice-PresidentI American Institute of Park Executives

(I

AM PARTICULARLY happy to participate in this
I conference that brings together the park and

recreation men of several midwest states. I only
wish that we could have included the educators
from the same area, because I believe that the edu-
cator is important in the coordinated planning I
“am to discuss this morning. '

According to the program, I am to talk on the
ParleSchool Plan, and while, of course, I shall be
glad to discuss the technical aspects of this plan
later, I would like to devote the greater part of
this short paper to the thinking—or attitudes—-
required by municipal administrators involved in
this, or in any other cooperatve endeavor.

HIM——

*Paper presented at Great Lakes Park Training Institute, Febru-
ary 27, 1947. Published by permission.
‘

19.2

Thinking with the Times

Twenty years ago, when I entered the park field
(by accident), park men considered recreation
men young upstarts who were trying to take their
beautiful parks away from them. Recreation men
were prone to tag park pe0ple as narrow-minded
fogies whose principal occupation was to keep
children out of the parks, or at least keep them
from playing in the parks. The school adminis—
trator viewed with disdain both park and recrea-
tion personnel, and defied encroachment on any of
his prerogatives or school pr0perty.

We have come a long way in most communities
from this constricted thinking, but there is still
much to be accomplished before we can do the job
that is to be done. Some of us have come to realize
that these public agencies——the schools, parks and
recreation—have been working at cross purposes
to attain a common goal. For instance, in the past,
school people were prone to think of their school
plant only in terms of the school structure. It has
only been within the past decade that many school
boards and administrators have found that they

could. increase their education facility by intelli—

RECREATION

 

gent design and use of the grounds around their
school buildings. They have found that it was
good business to plan their schools as well as ad-
jacent school property for community use. They
have learned that the wet—weather, all-season paved
areas which have become a must on modern school
grounds can be designed and sleeved so as to pro—
vide tennis courts and other court games for com-
munity recreation when not in use by the schools.
School athletic grounds can also be constructed so
that they are adaptable for twilight or even night
play. Outdoor classrooms or council rings can be
used by Girl or Boy Scouts, for family picnics and
for other gatherings. In other words, it was fd'und
that properly planned school grounds can serve as
neighborhood parks. '

There is another factor worth mentioning. Some
school authorities who are sensitive to sustained
assessed valuations have found that school‘build-
ings situated in a park-like environment actually
increase the assessed valuations around these so-
called park—schools; whereas, a school building
with a small, poorly planned, intensively used
school yard invariably affects neighboring prop-
erty values adversely.

And what about the park planner during this
era? He learned the hard way that his new small
park developments must be situated according to
present and future population densities. He also
learned that new school buildings were being lo—
cated on thiS'basis, so this new park must be in the

eneral location of the new school. If at this point,
he school and park men would get together, the
I ext step would be easy, because they would both
see that by acquisition of contiguous properties,
Epintly planned and developed, both would save

oney and Mr. Taxpayer would receive double
benefit. The schools (because of smaller land re-

uirements) could put more monies into school
structures and these buildings could be designed
for community recreation. The park‘ authority
Lcould increase the scope of their land development
because of reduced park structure requirements.
This entire plant, when completed, would then
iconstitute the education and recreation facility for
the neighborhood it serves. The indoor mainte-
‘ance should be the responsibilty of the school
board, outdoor maintenance should be performed

y the park board.

Toward Future Planning

I need not point out to the recreation man who
as been bumping his head against the problem of

icilities, the many advantages of such joint de—

IULY 1947
I

£ 

velopments. He, of course, should have control .3319
these facilities when not used for school purposes. ‘V/é

I do not mean to infer that the park—school plan
would eliminate the need for some separate park
field houses, but certainly it will reduce the num-
ber of those expensive field houses that stand idle
during school hours, and the even more expensive
school plants operated solely for school children
for a small fraction of time each year.

In most states there are no really serious legal
obstacles to overcome in effecting joint planning
between municipal bodies. The difficulty lies in
personal and board prerogatives. If these can be

subjected to the total plan, details of initial acqui-

sition and construction costs as well as responsi—
bilities for programming and maintenance can be
arranged between the boards involved.

The potentialities of joint. planning are great
and appear to be worth the time and effort re-
quired. In any event, I firmly believe that the
school of tomorrow will be situated in a park—like
environment and will truly be the center of com-
munity life.

The day is setting fast for the park man who
measures his achievements in terms of shrubs,
trees, flowers and turf without reconciling them to
the human element. The recreation man who can
see no further than muscular development or
active organized play is on his way to oblivion.
The educator is decadent who doesn’t see that
recreation can and should supplement the school
curriculum, that recreation is not something apart
from education, but should be integrated with the
education system.

Finally, it is timeiwe all awakened to the oppor-
tunities and the challenge that we face. The prob-

‘ lem of leisure time is very largely our problem as

administrators and it will become more and more
serious as the present trend toward shorter and
shorter hours for labor is accelerated. The use of
this leisure time resulting from a 35 or perhaps a
30 hour week will determine very largely where
we as a nation are going. If the park and recreation
men are going to achieve anything really worth-
while they must first achieve unanimity. They must
produce inspired leaders among themselves before
they can solicit leadership in the citizenry. And,
above all, they must have vision without being
solely visionary.

I fervently believe that our working together as
park, recreation and school men will aid in the
creation of a new culture for. America—a culture
based on the economic, social and technological
character of our people.

193

Recognition 'for

Conrad L. Wirth

HE AMERICAN Scenic and Historic Preserva
tion Society awarded a gold medal for the mos
important park service in the United States t
Conrad L. Wirth,‘ Chief of Lands, National Par

Service, at a special luncheon on June 4, 1947.

Conrad L. Wirth has been with the Nationa
Park Service since 1931 and has recently assume
technical supervision of its planning functions, fol
lowing his return from Vienna where he served a
Policy Advisor to the United States Allied Coun
cil in Austria.

For many years Conrad L. Wirth has worke
closely with the National Recreation Association :
He is well and favorably known to very many rec '
reation and park workers throughout the country II
He is an active leader in the Federal Inter-Agenc 1

 

Bach rack

Joseph Lee Appointed
to Park Board

OSEPH LEE, JR., of Boston, Massachusetts, has
J recently been appointed to the local Park

Board. In a letter to Howard Braucher, presi-
dent of the National Recreation Association, Mr.
Lee said, “To give you a brief statement of my
recreation record is easy,“ for I have none.” His
letter continued: ‘

“I have only done what I was taught to do,
when I was a student at the University of Texas,
by an ofhcer just returned from World War I,
who told us to ‘approach the world humbly and
with‘curiosity.’ I have approached that magnificent
dress rehearsal by which youngsters prepare them-
selves for the game of life on our playgrounds,
boys’ clubs, municipal buildings, streams, and for—
ests ‘humbly and with curiosity.’

“My actual achievements, then, have been purely
political and administrative. I got my native city—
Boston—to turn an abandoned Gas House Lot into
a playground. After a court battle, I got a liberaliza-
tion of our huge city-owned George Robert White
Fund permitting its future use for the construction
of indoor recreation centers. As a former member
of the Boston School Committee, I got our local

194

Committee on Recreation.

government to leave the padlocks off school yards
even at seasons and hours when there was 11
supervision. I secured enactment of a bill in th

Legislature putting the designation of coastin I

streets into the hands of departments sympatheti
to recreation use. I instigated one or two WP ‘
recreation projects in former days. I sat in 0
some surveys of recreation in Boston.

“To be sure, I prepared a little manual for us
of our classrooms on how to use ice safely for win
t'er skating—-—as well as a simple instrument f0
measuring ice. I also got a part of the shorelin
along the crowded edge of our Charles Rive
Basin in the heart of the city made into a beac
which is now used by thousands. I also turned ou
Charles River Basin into what I believe is the firs
public sailing playground in the world, where, wit

the youngsters of the district, I designed an

built a fleet of 16—foot sailboats kept available f0
anyone who wished to learn, so that a youngste
did not have to wait to be born of a father wh
knew sailing, had a place, could purchase a boa
and teach his boy to sail. We have been taking i
600 members a year.

“However,I mention these last three with som
uneasiness. My motivations were not towards re
reation, nor for the benefit of the youngsters. I ju
did not want to see so much water, wind, and ic

going to waste.

“I am an economist by profession.”

RECREATIO '.

I
I
_l
_|
i
l

_ Rural Aspects*

Purpose and Scope

18 years of age, which may generally be re—
ferred to as the juvenile population, lives in
rural areas. Since there are relatively more chil-
dren in rural areas than in the population as a
whole, there is a constant movement of rural peo-
ple, largely maturing youths, to urban centers. In
View of this cityward movement of rural youths, it
should be the concern of urban as well as rural
people that rural youth have full opportunity for
well-rounded physical, mental, and spiritual de-
velopment.
A realistic approach to the problems of juvenile
delinquency in rural areas needs to take cognizance
of the distinctive patterns of rural life. Many of the
causes of juvenile delinquency, and the best meth-
ods of dealing with it when it occurs, and ways of
reducing its frequency, are sometimes rather simi-
lar for rural and urban communities. But often the
lcausative factors are different as are also the most
desirable and feasible methods of dealing with them.
i Most obvious of the various features peculiar. to
lthe rural situation is that rural people live less
{closely together than urban people; equally impor-
'tant, they rely more on close personal contacts, the
I maturing children commonly have a more respon-
' sible part in making the family living, there is less
formal organization and more informal activity,
' and behavior is determined more by local custom
and less by law than in urban communities. More-
over, the low density of p0pulation and the low
per capita taxable wealth in rural areas make it
ifficult to have specialists for education, recrea-

ion, church, welfare, and law enforcement. The
result is that the rural teacher, preacher, welfare

orker, and police officer is of necessity often a
eneralist rather than a specialist. Any realistic

hinking and planning that is done about the pre-
ention and control of juvenile delinquency in
I ural areas will need to start from these basic facts.

OVER HALF of the Nation’s population under

Summary of Conclusions and
Recommendations

Home Responsibilities. The family is the most
mportant influence in the life of a child. Many
' arents want and need help to make this influence
the best.
1|._

*Recommendations of Panel on Rural Aspects from the.NationaI
Conference on Prevention and Control of Juvenile Delinquency.

from 1947

School and Teacher Responsibilities. The school
is in an admirable position to influence the be-
havior of children, and can make a real contribu-
tion toward the prevention of uvenile delinquency
if it possesses the philosophy and facilities to help
boys and girls develop integrated personalities,
healthful habits, attitudes, and interests, and a
sense of civic responsibility.

Church Responsibilities. The members and lay-
officials of the local church should help the com-
munity tackle the problem of juvenile delinquency
by—

Promoting, supporting, and cooperating with
other groups and agencies in the county and com-
munity by willingly serving on committees with-
out remuneration.

Supporting social activities of church groups,
especially of youth organizations, and helping the
minister and yOuth leaders reach more young
people.

Among the things the clergyman can do are —-

Develop a social point of view, seek better un-
derstanding of rural problems and conditions, and
have the will to do something about them.

Leaders of religious bodies can make a contri-
bution by—

Supporting local clergymen and church leaders
in their endeavors to cooperate with other agencies
and groups for preventing' juvenile delinquency
and in dealing with similar problems. '

Report on Youth Opportunities, Participation,
and Citizens’ Leadership Responsibilities

Since youth who participate in strong voluntary
youth organizations are less likely to become de-
linquent, it is imperative that every rural boy and
girl should have the experience of belonging to a
voluntary youth group.

The needs'and wants of youth expand, so pro-
grams should be of a progressive nature. Youth
leadership training programs should be developed.
Parents should be appraised of the values of group
participation, and youth should be given proper
recognition for worth-while achievements.

Youth should participate in the planning and
conducting of all youth programs and community
activities. Thus, it should be made easy for youth

195

to move from youth organizations into adult groups
as their interests advance to an adult level.

Recreational Facilities and Services

All rural youth should have the opportunity and
should be encouraged —

I. To participate in at least one local group or
organization, meeting regularly.

2. To participate in at least one standard com-
petitive Sport.

3. To develop appreciation and skill in the field
of music, art, drama, and literature.

4. To follow at least one hobby.
The distinctive features of rural life and condi-

tions should be recognized in planning recreation
programs for rural areas:

I. The opportunities for recreation inherent in
the rural environment, such as farm pets, bird
study, astronomy gardening, fishing and hunting,
swimming, and winter sports, should be utilized.

2. Apparatus for physical activities is not of
major importance, since the farm and open coun-
try offer such natural apparatus as trees, to climb,
hayloft trapeze, and grapevine swings.

3. Where rural homes are sufficiently spacious,
they can be the center of neighborhood activities.
This should be encouraged.

4. Facilities for physical recreation, such as camp
sites, parks, school playgrounds, picnic grounds,
ball diamonds, and tennis courts, should be made
available in every community.

 

County Fights Delinquency

BECAUSE OF THE LARGE INCREASE in arrests of youngsters in Fayette County, Pennsylvania, a genera
meeting of citizens was called in 1942 to discuss the problem. Each year since a conference has bee
held, and this year seven counties united in the meeting. Clarence E. Brewer attended as a representa

tive of the National Recreation Association.

Recreation was the central theme this year There was discussion on the creation of county rec

reation commissions, the need for an adequate budget, the necessity for competent, qualified recreatio

executives.

Myrl Alexander, Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, reporting back to At
torney General Tom Clark on the outstanding value of this kind of meeting, stated: “I am amaze
beyond all words to find in this little county such a well-organized program for meeting communit
responsibility for combating juvenile delinquency.”

196

'zations or local groups, and be correlated within

  
   
    
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  

5. Rural school buildings should be planned to
provide for community services, including recrea-
tional facilities, and should be available on a year-
round basis. In cases where rural schools are not
available as recreational centers, rural organiza-
tions should provide attractive meeting places as
recreation centers.

6. Communities should be encouraged to set up
recreation councils, including representation from
all local agencies, to study existing activities and
plan for immediate and long-time programs. A
special effort should be made to provide for areas
where the need is greatest.

7. Rural recreation programs should usually
function through existing rural community organi-

a country or where desirable on a regional or trade
area basis.

8. A rural recreation program should not give
too much emphasis to segregating rural people by
age groups and by sex, since the normal pattern is
for families to participate as a group in many
social activities and for boys and girls to hold
memberships in the same clubs.

9. The services of specialists in the various
phases of recreation should be made available to
help rural leaders deve10p adequate programs.
Such organizations as the Extension Service,
churches, and schools, should consider enlarging
their staffs to include specialists in the field of rec
reation on a state or regional basis.

RECREATIO

 

 

Save the easy, automatic way. . .with U. S. Savings Bonds

 

JULY 1947

What every bride should”? know:

 

WHAT it feels like to be poor . . .

What it feels like when your first-born
needs an expensive doctor—and you can’t
afford it . . .

What it's like wanting a home of your
own . . . and never quite getting it . . .

What it's like having your kids grow up
not knowing whether they’ll ever get to
college . . .

What it’s like to see the Joneses and
the Does and the Smiths able to travel
abroad—but never you . . .

What it’s like to have to keep telling
yourself, "He may not have money, but

he’s my Joe.”

There is no cure-all for all these things.

But the closest thing to it for most of
us is buying U.S. Savings Bonds—auto-
matically. So here’s a bit of friendly ad-
vice for newlyweds:

Get on the Payroll Savings Plan
where you work or the Bond-a-Month
Plan Where you have a checking account.

Either plan helps you save money regu-
larly, automatically, and surely, for the
things you want.

It’s one of the finest things you can do
to start married life right.

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

197

Program Highlights

Columbia. South Carolina

, HE OBJECTIVE of the Columbia preschool pro-
T gram is to help children from three to six years
grow in body, in mind,’ and in spirit in such a
,way that they may easily find themselves in the
complicated pattern of life.

There are IO white preschools and three Negro
preschools with a total enrollment of 633 children.
Working in connection with each preschool is a
well—organized Mothers’ Club. When a child is
enrolled in a school its mother becomes a member
of the organization. The clubs are a link between
the school and the home, serve as child study
groups and finance the small, wearable equipment
needed. Each preschool grows in proportion to the
interest shown by the mothers’ club group.

The Children’s Matinee is an outgrowth of a
need for movies planned on a child’s level to be
shown on Saturday.mornings. The results of a
question showed that the majority of boys and
girls of the city were attending picture shows on
Saturday morning though the pictures were not
selected for them.

Through the cooperation of the Palmetto Thea-
ters, Inc., a half hour of planned fun and a movie
selected by the recreation staff, approved by the
Parent-Teachers Association are offered children
every Saturday morning at ten.

Park signs divide the theater into sections en-
abling the children to sit with their park group and
their park leader. This stimulates the clean whole-
some rivalry and park pride that exists among the
parks. The show opens with the theme song,
“Happy Days Are Here Again.” The .master of
ceremonies gives a hearty welcome, announces
highlights for the week on the city parks, and in
turn turns the program over to the cheer leaders
(park children) and the music director who leads
the group in their favorite songs. Then comes the
Book of Surprise . . . a lovely, big, glittering story
book, six feet by four and a half feet, is Opened by
a Boy Scout and the surprise for the day makes its
entrance through a page in the book. The surprises
vary———storytellers, performing dogs, parrots, jug-
glers, acrobats, musical bottles, magicians and park
skits have been some of the boys’ and girls’ favorites.

The Boy Scouts assist the city police with the
traffic and order; city firemen conduct lire drills,

1%

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

Girl Scout troops serve as ushers; the Town Thea
ter helps with make-up and costumes. Columbi
College, University of South Carolina, .Richlan
County Library and numerous other organizations
furnish talent.

A cab and ice cream company furnish tickets
for the two orphanages and the lower incom
group. We feel the cooperation from all organi-
zations is 100 percent.

Radio Program

“ ’Tis Fun Time on the City Parks” is a fifteen-
minute weekly broadcast sponsored by the Colum-
bia Recreation Program in cooperation with the
cab and ice cream companies over radio station
WCOS, on Friday afternoon at 5 :45 to 6:00.

The objective of the radio program is to give
recreation information to the children and their
parents and to provide a broadcast definitely
planned for children.

The programs are planned and scheduled by the
recreation staff with the assistance of the park
leaders. The park children are the participants.

May Pole Dances '

The Columbia Recreation Program sponsored
its first city-wide May party, May 1946, with
ten city parks participating. The mayor added
dignity to the occasion by crowning the queen. She
was attended by seventy-five maids and a maid of
honor. Her train was gracefully carried by four
little train bearers. Two picturesque heralds an-
nounced her arrival and twenty-six petite flower
girls scattered fragrant petals in her path. The
court entertainment was furnished by court jest-
ers, the city-wide band, choruses and folk dances
from the various parks. The program was climaxed
with the May poles. Ten groups of children from
the different parks, dressed in flower costumes,
portrayed a beautiful picture as they danced around
the artistically decorated May poles. The May
party was held in a centrally located park. A nat—
ural wooded area formed an ideal background.
Around five hundred children took part. Plans now
are to make it an annual party.

RECREATIO '

0NDON, ONTARIO, is a “hub”
L city of about 88,000 persons,
endowed with a generous
share of this world’s blessings.
Located in the heart of .one of Canada’s most fer-
tile agricultural districts, it has a relatively well—
balanced economy with emphasis on finance, small-
wares, wholesale merchandising and distribution.
Its educational system is considered to be of high
standard, and other community services are equally
well advanced. It is the home of the University of
Western Ontario. In addition, London has an in-
stitution which I believe to be unique in the field
of community group work—the London Y.M.C.A.
Boys’ Work Council.

The alarming increase in what is popularly
termed “juvenile delinquency” in the early years
of World War II caused many of London’s most
public-Spirited and conscientious citizens to spend
many hours in anxious deliberation. As a result, in
1942 the Y.M.C.A. took the initiative in calling
together representatives from all the service clubs
in the city, to seek a means to remedy the situation.
This group evolved what they called the Boys’
Work Council. The council was set up as an inde—
pendent social agency, with its own financial cam-
paign and administration. Actively represented on
it at this early stage were Rotary, Kiwanis, Lions,
Optimist, Kinsmen, Foremen, Progress, Knights
of Columbus, Y’s Men and the Y.M.C.A., together
with other associate members. The London Labour
Council (C.I.O.) became active at a later date

The objective of the council was to coordinate
and direct the neighborhood boys’ club activities
of all these individual organizations. To this end
the council zoned the city by school‘district and
made each of the member organizations responsi—
ble for the promotion and quality of the group
work in its zone. More Specificially, the council
directed its efforts toward serving those boys who
were not already taken care of by an existing or—
ganization such as Scouts, Boys’ Brigade,Y.M.C.A.,
jplaygrounds, and so on. The idea was to augment,
not compete with, work already being done. The
council recognized that its program' was only a
partial solution and inadequate for the real needs of
even the boys of the community—to say nothing
of the girls—~but it knew that without intelligent
'limitation it would be ineffectual.

    
   
    
 
  
  

 

_ 'IULY 1947

he London YMCA Boys' Work Council

By GOWER H. MARKLE

Community Boys' Secretary
London, Ontario

The main stumbling block to com-
plete success was the scarcity of
qualified personnel—eSpecially
group leaders and supervisors—
and as the war proceeded this situation became
still more acute. Finally, in the spring of 1945, the
council approached the Y.M.C.A. to obtain more
direct assistance. Consequently, the Y.M.C.A. un-
dertook to “coordinate, direct and administer the
affairs of the council, and the council became a
committee of the Y.M.C.A. responsible for neigh-
borhood boys’ work. '

Achievement

The achievement of the Y.M.C.A. Boys’ Work
Council has been commendable in at least four di-
rections. It has maintained a neighborhood club
program in those sections of the city where it is
most needed. This program revolves around and
capitalizes upon some interest which a group has
already formed. Once confidence and rapport-have
been established, it aims to lead the group into
possibly more constructive activities, and to give
each boy an experience in a cooperative organiza-
tion where he will develop an understanding and
appreciation of democratic attitudes and proce-
dures in the widest sense.These groups have tended
to expand, and have, in some degree, influenced
the city in its attitudes and plans for community
recreation.

The council has done a needed work in training
leaders for community groups. It has conducted
several courses to train personnel for crafts and
hobbies and it has cooperated in a course to train
leaders for social recreation. The craft courses are
made available to any sufficiently mature person,
upon condition that he or.she agrees to teach other
groups upon the completion of the course. A regis-
tration fee has been charged to cover expenses.
Many of these leaders have ‘been sent from or-
ganized groups to take their training, but the '
council has also gained many excellent instructors
for its own program from these courses.

The council has organized and directed several
big and spectacular projects which have been city-
wide in scope and interest. In addition to filling a
real community need, these projects have stabilized
relationships within the council and have had an
excellent public relation and publicity value. For

199

the past four years,‘for example, the council has
had very good results with community Hallowe’en
celebrations. Damage from Hallowe’en pranks has
become negligible. The highlights of these celebra-
tions have been parties for all the school children
of the‘city, promoted by the service organization
working within the district, and produced in CO-
operation with the Board of Education, the Sepa-
rate School Board, and the Home and School
Council.

Hobby Fair

A new venture for the Y.M.C.A. Boys’ Work
Council was the London Hobby Fair of 1946.
There had not been a hobby fair of any size in
London for 10 years, and there had never been
one on such a large scale and with so many differ-
ent groups actively engaged in its promotion and
organization. The executive committee for the fair
comprised one representative from each of the
member organizations of the Y.M.C.A. Boys’
Work Council. This executive made the prelimi—
nary plans and then expanded the committee by
drawing from the service clubs as needed.

The fair was organized in four main sections:
hobbies and crafts, entertainment and music, art,
swimming and diving. The Y.M.C.A. building, in
which the fair was held, is very well adapted for a
display of this nature. Each section could function
concurrently but independently. Prizes and awards
were presented to competitors who were 18 years
of age and under. Entries from adults were wel—
comed for display and were recognized, but were
not entered for competition.

We received excellent c00peration from the press
and radio in publicizing the fair. The press pub-
lished a special 28-page Hobby Fair Supplement,
which was devoted mainly to accounts of the many
youth service projects conducted by the various

 

. All the Trimmings

AND, SPEAKING 0F HOBBIES, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, has a workshop that is the answer to

hobbyists’ prayers. The workshop was organized by the local Junior League to stimulate a wider
interest in creative expression. Instruction is offered in needlecraft, creative writing, marionette making,
figure drawing, painting, silk screen printing, modern and social dancing, leathercraft, flower arrange-
ment, bookbinding, pottery, weaving and other activities. All residents of'Winston-Salem are. invited to

use the studios, looms, tables, tools, easels, and other supplies furnished by the recreation commission.

200

agencies which compose the Y.M.C.A. Boys’ Work
Council. This supplement was financed by special
advertising from the merchants of the city to ex-
press good will toward the hobby fair. The local
radio station contributed five 15-minute period
for interviews and hobby fair news, as well a
numerous spot announcements.

The fair was held for three days and was viewe
by over 5,000 children and adults. After all ex-
penses were paid, the fair had a surplus of over
$200 on hand to promote the 1947 edition.

The council does not feel that its hobby fair was
an unqualified success, but it did have certai
values which make it worth repeating anothe
year. '

It developed a great deal of interest in the rec-
reation and education values of hobbies and crafts,
and brought about a reassessing of their social
values.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   

1t created an exchange where skills might be
compared and new ideas might be picked up. ‘

Many people became interested in a hobby or
craft which will greatly enrich their leisure time.

It provided the schools and community groups
with an additional objective toward which to work,
and the young people with a new incentive for
interest in their projects.

We have gathered valuable experience upon
which to build even more successful undertakings
of this nature in the future.

The London Y.M~.C.A. Boys’ Work Council has
successfully demonstrated the advantages that come
when a large number of organizations, which su-
perficially appear competitive, get together har-
moniously behind some constructive enterprise. It
is continuing to evaluate and expand its activities
in order to render maximum service to the youth
of this community.

\

RECREATION

     

OFFICIAL
SHAPE - WEIGHT - BOUNCE

The greatest name on softballs. Famous in play-
grounds throughout the world. The Armored
Winding, the steam-treated Kapok Centers and
other exclusive features of WEAVER Softballs,
provide that longer life, extra wear, economy
and full satisfaction demanded by Experts.

Insist on WEAVER—The Ball of the Hour.

WINTARK POLICY WINS FOR DEALERS— Write for Catalog

    
   

WEAVER WINTARK} SALES (:0.

Original Pioneers of America's Foremost Athletic Equipment

BOX 71 SHAMOKIN, PA.

 

Music and Recreation“

HE ALARMING juvenile de-

linquency statistics make '

all teachers realize, more
and more, the need for a good recreational guid-
ance program in every school. It is important that
we increase our efforts to train children how hap-
pily and wholesomely to occupy their leisure time.
The music instructor, by correlating music with
other subjects and by securing the cooperation of
the teachers of those subjects, has a splendid op-
portunity to play a large part in such a program.
He or she can create interest in various activities,
in one or more of which almost any child can
actively oi' appreciatively participate.

The Music Room

The music room should be made attractive, in-
viting, and interesting—a place to which children
like to go. Such a place should be light and airy,
with comfortable, noiseless seats. As much of the
decorating as possible should be done by the pupils,
for this will provide them with a desirable and
stimulating activity. They enjoy bringing and car-
ing for plants which they have raised, and they
can paint and decorate, perhaps with musical de—
signs, simple containers for these plants. Walls
can be made attractive if covered with murals,
showing episodes or scenes of significance in the
history of music, illustrations of operas, musical
scenes from foreign lands, and others. Seasonal
pictures, such as special ones for Easter or'Christ-
mas, can be changed from time to time. A neat
bulletin board with a cut-out musical border at-
tracts the attention of the pupils. Committees can
be responsible for posting on this board notices of
musical events, good radio programs, news about
and pictures of artists, and other information. Girls
enjoy dressing dolls or paper figures to show the
costumes worn in different musical productions. If

given the opportunity, students will think of other
ways to make the room attractive.

This room should have as much equipment as
possible, in addition to the phonograph, piano, and
other instruments usually provided. There should
be books about composers, artists, musical works,
instruments, opera librettos, and other musical

 

*Reprinted by ermission from the April, 1946, Music Educators

Journal, pu lished by the Music Educators’ National Con-
ference.

202

By AMY ELIZABETH JENSEN
Kenosba, Wisconsin

literature. Current magazine
too, should be available. Chi
dren are glad to act as librar
ans to check books and other materials on loa
There should be a fine collection of records, and
the children are given a good course in appreci
tion, they will want to take these records home t
play. Charts showing orchestras, bands, and i
strument families are interesting. Theory is mor
easily taught with such visual aids as music
games, puzzles, flash cards, and other interestin
devices. More and more materials of this type at
being printed inexpensively. With a little inge
nuity excellent teaching aids can be constructed.

  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
 

. Activities

Following are some interesting activities tha
children seem especially to enjoy:

A Puppet Opera. By enlisting the help of the ar
teacher, a miniature stage, props, and puppets ca
be constructed. The speech teacher can train th
pupils for the speaking parts, and the rest of th
work can be done in the music classes. H ansel anoi-
Gretel makes a charming one for children of al
ages.

Making Instruments. This project offers an inter
esting way for the science instructor who teaches '
sound to correlate his work with music. The in-
struments can be made in the science class but .
used in the music room. The principles of sound
learned can then be applied to real instruments.

A Movie. A movie can be made by fastening . .
long piece of paper to two rollers at opposite side
of a stage. On it are drawn scenes from a colorfu
musical production. As each scene unfolds, ther
is some kind of musical accompaniment to syn
chronize with the pictures. William Tell make
an exciting movie when done in this manner.

A Musical Variety Show. This type of perform
ance is very popular, and gives many children a
opportunity to perform. It involves other activi
ties, such as program planning, staging, costumin
and the like. It is an excellent way to raise mone
to buy instruments and other equipment.

Correlating Music with Social Studies. A stud
of the South is enhanced when children can give .
program of Negro Spirituals, Stephen Foster song

RECREATIO

They mid stilt dsiiver {he finest performance under 33! giayingiccnditiqné me: ~

the langast perisd of time. Remember .— all V931 built?

halls are weatherproof, waterpmnf, wearpraof.

manna}
:numc
msnyun

 

southern folk dances, or a rollicking minstrel show.
And how pupils like to sing cowboy songs as they
make a study of the thrilling experiences of these
westerners! Such programs require research and
study on the part of the class.

A Musical Melting Pot. A suitable program for
Brotherhood Week, this colorful project offers a
fine opportunity to develop tolerance and apprecia-
tion of the many people who have come from for-
eign lands and who have contributed to our great
country their cultures in the form of music, dances.
art, drama.

A Musical Garden. This can be a showing of
flowers raised by the pupils, and accompanied by
“garden” or “flower” music of different kinds—
from the simple songs about flowers that little chil-
dren sing to the beautiful Waltz 03‘ the Flowers
played by the school orchestra. Dramatizations and
dances by pupils dressed in flower costumes, and
performed in garden settings are especially lovely.

A Musical Book. The reading of passages of a
circus story offers an opportunity for orchestra and
band performers to imitate animal sounds, the
calli0pe, the circus band, the merry-go-round, and
to create other musical effects.

A Musical Poem. Children like learning a poem
about spring when they can study it to the accom-
paniment of Mendelssohn’s Spring Song , and
memorizing a poem that has been set to music is
also an enjoyable experience.

A Patriotic Drill. The physical education and
music teachers, working together, can plan a pro-
gram, including marches, a flag drill, rhythms,
and dances. Any performance with a patriotic
motif wins the applause of an audience.

An Historical Pageant. What a wonderful op—
portunity this is for many teachers to work to-
gether! The pageant can be written in the Eng-
lish class, and the pupils trained for the speaking
parts by the speech teacher. Stage settings can be
made in the manual training and art classes, and
costumes sewn by the domestic science pupils. The
physical education instructor can train the dancers.
Unusual programs can be made in the printing
classes. The whole performance can be tied to-

gether by a musical background and special musi-
cal numbers.

If the above described projects or similar ones
were used, children could be kept busily occupied
in school and outof school and would not look
upon music as an isolated subject. If shared with

204

 

Courtesy Press Association

Medal Awarded, to
Dr. Sabin

DR. FLORENCE SABIN of Denver, Colorado, was
recently awarded the Jane Addams Medal at
the 100th anniversary celebration of Rockford Col-
lege, Rockford, Illinois. The medal, presented for
the first time, was awarded to Dr. Sabin for her un-

tiring achievements in Colorado public health work.

The citation accompanying the award quoted
Colorado’s Governor Knous as saying, “There

isn’t a man in the Legislature who would tangle
with her. She’s an atom bomb. She’s a dynamo.”

Dr. Sabin is one of the trustees of the Henry
Strong Denison Fund of the National Recreation
Association. The income from this fund is used for
the purpose of apprentice fellowships. The Asso-
ciation selects young men and women and places
them in recreation departments for a year’s train-
ing, interne-style, in community recreation,leader—

ship.

audiences, such programs would provide recrea-
tion for others as well as for those taking part. The
keen interest in music developed by such activities
is bound to carry over into adult life. Let us hope
that in the future, when more leisure time is
promised, music will be a recreation activity of
many.

RECREATION

 

 

THE P.T.A. now num-
bers 4,481,287 mem—
bers, reports Mabel W.
Hughes, President,
National Congress of Parents and Teachers, in an
editorial in the May 1947 National Parent—Teacher
Magazine. This is an increase of 571,191, or 15
percent, over last year. Recreation leaders every-
where will rejoice with the leaders of the National
Congress of Parents and Teachers in this evidence
of the growing strength of a movement which has
contributed so much to better recreation in the
home, the neighborhood, and the community.

500,000 New PITA.
Members

 

 

FAMILY picnics are
here to stay. Figures
provided by the Los
Angeles City Recreation and 'Park Department
showed that the family picnic remains near the
top in popularity among all forms of recreation in
the city. The picnic areas of parks and playgrounds
were used by 665,280 people last year.“

Eat and Be Merry

 

 

SKATING parties held
for children in Pensa-
cola, Florida, seemed
such fun that the adults joined too. Streets were
blocked off and lighted, and enthusiasts were able
to skate to music in any one of the six areas in the
city. Skating parties for children were held on
Saturdays during February in connection with the
playground program.

Adults Came, Too .

THE first public pre—
sentation of “Chicago
For Me” climaxed a
long search by the Choral and Instrumental Music
'Association of Chicago for a Chicago “theme
song.” The song will be used as an introduction to
the concerts that will be presented in Chicago
parks during the summer season.

Found : A Themesong

FUN and good times
were invited to Play-
ground finale days in
Winona, Minnesota. Playgrounds sponsored a
hobo day, costume day, and a fun frolic. Parades,
prizes, games and races delighted more than 225
boys and girls.

Happy Days

IULY 1947

 

Print by Gedge Harmon

 

AT THE Governor’s
Conference on Youth,
held on May 19 and
20, at Trenton, New
Jersey, youth representatives condemned motion
pictures, radio and newsstand material exploiting
sex, as one of the chief sources of contamination of
youth and creation of juvenile delinquency. A pro-
posal to dedicate the state’s racetrack breakage re-
ceipts to the construction of more recreation facili—
ties for youth was referred to the continuing Com-
mittee of the conference without recommendation.

New Jersey Youth
Consider Recreation

 

HIGH school and prep
'school athletes may soon
walk the road to fame
previously monopolized
by college and professional heroes. The W. J. Voit
Rubber Corporation has established a program of
presenting annual sports awards for outstanding
school sportsmanship in every field of athletic ac-
tivity. Twenty-four of Southern California’s star
prep and high school football players received the
first award—a regulation size football and a letter-
man’s sweater for each athlete. The occasion was
attended by leading sports writers from metropoli—
tan and Southern California newspapers, by net-
work radio newsmen, by coaches and top-flight
sports personalities.

Opportunity Is
Knocking

 

205

Conference on Fire Prevention—The recent
appalling loss of life and property due to fires
stimulated President Truman to sponsor a nation—
wide effort to cope with the fire menace. As part
of his program the President called a national
conference on fire prevention in Washington, May
6, 7 and 8.

All recreation leaders will wish to cooperate in
this nation—wide effort to reduce loss of life and
property through fires by taking all possible fire
prevention steps in connection with the operation
of recreation facilities.

Movie Fun—Little Black Sambo, Bruins M alee
Mischief, High Speed Mickey, Elephant Roundup,
Old Mother Hubbard, and M ary’s Little Lamb
have gone to San Jose, California. These 16 mm.
films were purchased by the recreation department
for exhibition at various community centers. The
motion pictures have been shown 39 different times
before groups of children and adults.

Reconversion—Communities are changing
their wartime recreation plans for peacetime rec-
reation programs. When the Service Men’s Center
program was discontinued in Dearborn,” Michigan,
civic groups requested and were granted use of
the building as a community center. Social groups
and clubs now meet regularly at the center under
the leadership of a recreation director.

Do, Re, Mi—Vocal auditions gave Detroit an"

opportunity to discover its best youthful singers
and unearth some remarkable talent. This second
annual contest made it possible for young people
studying voice to be heard and to stimulate De-
troiters to appreciate talent in their midst. It took
almost three weeks to hear all of the 500 men and
women between 16 and 29 years of age who ap-
plied for auditions. From this number, the judges
selected 25 finalists who sang before 10,000 people.
Ten of the finalists were declared winners and each
was rewarded with an opportunity to appear as
guest soloist with the Detroit Federation of Musi-
cians’ Band during the summer concert season.

Oldsters Convene — An Oldsters’ Club has
been organized by older people living at the Ida B.
Wells Homes, a Chicago Housing Authority proj-
cct. The club meets twice a month so that the
oldsters may get together and carry on the kind of
recreation activities that are particularly interest-
ing to them. '

206

- grams and the other afternoons are given to super-

  
    
 
   
   
        

Planned for the Family—The Pan America
Center in Ventura, California, has advanced an
expanded in the past few years, but there is stil
great need for further enlargement of recreatio
and building facilities. The center is open thre
evenings, two afternoons, and one full day a wee
as well as for special activities such as dances an
family gatherings. The senior and junior Tee
Time groups and fathers each have one night
week for their activities. Mothers get together on
afternoon a week to plan special recreation pro-

vised activities for children.

Come and Get It———Residents of University
Park, Maryland, possess a new stone fireplace
which they initiated at a September picnic. Many
of the town’s 500 families observed the dedication
of the outdoor cooker. This ceremony marked the
first step in a program to build a community rec-
reation center in a town-owned, I7-acre plot.

Show Place of the Future—An all-purpose
play area that will be a future show place for Iowa
and the surrounding states is the dream and hope i
of Waterlod’s recreation department. The Elks

Club has contributed $3 5,000 for the project.

Home-made Music—Youngsters and old-
sters at a community center in Athens, Georgia,
carry on their own music program. Children
of 12 and men and women of 70 get along quite
nicely, thank you, without benefit of “pro-
fessional” lead’ership. Members of the group
take turns as song leaders and each leader
decides whether his number will be a solo, a
duet or an ensemble. No matter what the selec-
tion, the group, in its double capacity of per-
formers and audience, thoroughly enjoys its
home-made music.

Planning and Recreation—The International
City Managers Association reports that American
cities are spending 50 per cent more for municipal

population, 72 per cent now have official planning
agencies, the I 3 per cent of these are unofficial

bodies.

Volunteers—Not long ago, one of the Veter- '-
ans Administration Special Services workers re-!
ported that it had 20 separate groups furnishing |
volunteers in a single area. Another worker re-
ported that he had 100 separate units helping in a .

single city.

RECREATION

Fun in the Future—The Canon City, Colo-
rado, community—wide recreation center with
swimming pool, golf course and other features ,is
on its way. The first step in creating the center
has been taken by the Canon City Council in 0b-
taining an option of I 30 acres of land. Later on,
Canon City citizens will be called upon to support

a proposed bond issue of about $175,000 to finance
I the project. .

 

Cooperation—The Los Angeles County-
' School Cooperative Program was a noteworthy
llexample of the value of working together. State
' legislation authorized the recreation department to
'I lend assistance to school districts. The .recreation
department provided trained personnel. School
districts furnished all equipment, Supplies and
materials.

l 1'

vi
I

Ir

| By Popular Vote—Harold L. Teel, Director

of Recreation, Santa Ana, California, reports that

h I his recreation department at a recent public elec-

I, H tion was sustained with a majority of over 1,100
r votes, that a permanent recreation department was
 created, and a ten cent tax levy provided. The pro-

'posed $300,000 bond issue for the construction of

j, | a recreation area missed by nine votes the neces-

, sary two-thirds. It is expected that the bond issue

,1 will be submitted again at the general election to
e

,

P

I

ll
F

 

be held in April.

Efficiency Is the Goal—New Orleans con-
solidated its recreation System. A new recreation
b department was created to develop well-rounded,
well-coordinated and more extensive public pro-
:  grams. Before the birth of this department, widely
I scattered recreation activities were the task of a
‘ playgrounds commission, a sports association, a
I public bath commission, a teen-age club and sev-
eral other unrelated organizations.

     
  
  
  
  
    
  

President Truman Supports Local Rule—
President Truman speaking to municipal attorneys
last winter said, “In these times we must strive
for an approach to our problems in the light of
American traditions and principles. Self-respon-
sibility has contributed greatly to the building of
American character. This work should and must
be furthered. Your members can make a line con-
tribution toward the betterment of our communi-
ties. Their thinking and their action are necessary
to make community spirit stronger and the results
of neighborly cooperation more enduring.”

LY 1947

All in Favor—Recreation has “gone politi-
cal.’-’ In Lockport, New York, Mayor Fred A.
Ringueberg donated a part of his stipend as mayor
and made possible the reclaiming of a large section
of swamp land. This increased the size of Lock—
port’s Lake Park recreation area by 75 per cent.
Mayor Williamson and the Cortland Recreation
Commission cooperated in developing two line rec-
reation areas in Cortland. These areas include
playgrounds, ball diamonds, wading pools and an.
outdoor swimming pool. Burgess Landy of Sha-
mokin, Pennsylvania, gave his entire $2,000 salary
as Burgess toward the operation of a playground
and was able to get two of the leading firms in the
town to give $500 toward the same project.

Cooking As a Hobby—One of the leaders on
the United Nations staff spoke recently of her
hobbies of gardening and cooking. Several indi—
viduals have written to the Association about how
much pleasure they have had in thinking of cook—
ing as a leisure-time interest. One man became
very eloquent in describing the various recipes he
had worked out and the success he had had in
making cooking a very real recreation for himself.
It is rumored that several wives are very happy to
have their husbands develop cooking as a hobby.

Battlefield Park—The Princeton battlefield
of the American Revolution has been dedicated as
a park. Two New Jersey residents deeded parts
of their properties to the state, and a legislative
appropriation of $150,000 made the development
of this battlefield park possible. The dedication
ceremony was held last October in the vicinity of
the common grave of Americans and Britishers
who fell in the battle.

Fun Is Everywhere—Elderly gentlemen of
San Jose, California, are patronizing the basement
of their city library. The basement is maintained
by San Jose as a combined reading and game room
where older generation males can stop in to read
the newSpapers, participate in games or just take
it easy. The club is open from 9 A.M. to 9 P.M.
every day of the week.

Twelve Million for Playgrounds
On May 28th Los Angeles citizens voted

by a splendid majority the twelve million

dollar bond issue for playgrounds!

 

207

 

AQUATIC GAMES
PAGEANTS - STUNTS

A new brochure, practical and complete

Here is a file size brochure containing authori-
tative articles on water programs that were
written by experts and practical operators.

Illustrated, it contains over fifty thousand
words, many hundred descriptions of games,
pageants and stunts, and innumerable sugges-
tions on methods to build attendance:

Aquatic Games-Pageants-Stunts will be of
inestimable help to every pool operator, physi-
cal education director and promotion mana-
ger in attracting and holding the interest of
patrons. Students will find this brochure a
mine of information. Published by BEACH
& POOL & Swimming.

Six of One, Half Dozen of Another (Boys and Girls Drill)

One of the charts detailing a number
in a successful pageant.

Aquatic Games—Pageants—Stunts—is packed
with valuable, usable material. Most of the arti-
cles appeared in Beach & Pool and Swimming
Pool Data & Reference Annual, and are com-
pletely up-to-date in viewpoint and treatment.
This is believed to be the only book on these
important subjects that is now available.

 each, six or more $2.00 each.

Send your order to

Book Dept, BEACH & POOL 81 Swimming

 

208

425 Fourth Avenue, New York 16, N. Y.

Movies of

Recreation

By HAROLD HAINFELD

OVIES OF THE RECREATION program may no
be taken, generally speaking, with the elabo
rate equipment used on the Hollywood set,

but a permanent record of recreation activities can
be made by using ordinary home movie materials.
The first movies of the recreation program prob-
ably started when a director shot outdoor scenes.
as highlights of his summer program or when.
some interested home movie fan took a few hun-
dred feet of pictures for him.

There are many outdoor activities that can be-
used in a movie record of the community recrea-'
tion program. Baseball and softball games, trac
meets, field days, ice skating and winter sports,
and such important activities on the summer play:
grounds as crafts, horseshoe pitching tournaments,l
twilight adult programs and special activities are:
ideal shots for a record of recreation history in
the community.

Indoor scenes can be taken with the aid of].|
floodlights. Class activities, adult craft and arjl
classes, teen-age canteens and dances, hobby room :
are all good indoor subjects. One recreation di-Il
rector I know always carries his moving picture
camera with him to make shots of interesting;

events as they occur. i
l
I

O O I
The movmg plcture camera IS manufactured ml

many sizes and sells for different prices. It is gen-if
erally a spring driven type camera with various;
sized shutter speeds for different types of film andl'
for the kind of weather that may be encountered,
The camera holds enough film to take a reasonably
long shot and can be held in the hand or on a
tripod while operating.

There are, at present, three types of film thatl
are used in making movies—3 5 millimeter, 16 mm:
and 8 mm. The 35 mm. film is used commerciallyl.
and is not practical for amateur use, but 16 mm."
and 8 mm. are ideal for home movie users and easy1
to use in taking movies of the recreation program.
The 16 mm. film takes 40 pictures to each foot of
film. Eight mm. takes 80 pictures to each foot of

Equipment

 

RECREATION

film. Thus 400 feet of 16 mm. and 200 feet of
8 mm. film would be required to shoot the same
action. Both sizes are available in both black and
white and color. In projecting the film, 16 mm.
can be shown in an average school auditorium with
a projector that uses a 750-watt bulb, while 8 mm.
gives good results in a smaller room on a screen
that is 42 inches wide.

The size of the film selected depends on the type
of camera that is available. When you are buying a
camera and projector, remember that 16 mm. film
is more expensive than 8 mm. and takes twice as
much film to shoot the same scene. The 16 mm.
film can be shown in the auditorium while 8 mm.
film can be shown in the classroom. Commercial
film is developed by the manufacturer. Cost of
' development is included in the cost of the film.

Titling and Splicing

Titles may be made commercially at a cost of
about 40 cents per title in black and white film
and 75 cents in colored film. Or you can make a
titler in the hobby shop or crafts class and use
titles of your own composition. In Splicing films
together it.is important to keep them in left to
right continuity. A check on this is that the num-
bers on the shirts of athletes are not reversed or a
erson who eats with his right hand is doing. so

- vhen the film is projected on the screen.

If the film should break while showing it, an
mergency splice may be made which will lose but
i wo frames of film, thus preventing the stopping
f the show for a permanent splice or avoiding
he necessity of having film on two different re-
ake reels. For an emergency splice, cut half way
cross the end frames with'a knife or pair of scis-
ors and place the ends together. Take up the slack
Im on the retake reel and continue the show.
fake the permanent splice at a convenient time.
or the permanent Splice you will need splicing
quipment which may be purchased reasonably at
he camera shop.

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Vaporizing is a new process that places a thin
ansparent coating over film. This coat will pro-
ct it from scratches and finger marks and will
reserve the proper moisture in the film. Cost

this process is approximately $1.50 for 400 feet
f film.

An appropriation of. $30 will provide 400 feet
16 mm. black and white film with titles and
porizing process. This film will give a 15 minute
ow. The cost is somewhat higher for color film,

mewhat less for 8 'mm. Relative costs are as
lows:

LY 1947

\

400 feet 400 feet 200 feet 8 mm

16 mm. black 16 mm. 8 mm. black 200 feet

& white colored & white colored

Film . . . . . . .$26.40* $35.00* $10.00? $15.20?
Titles (4) . . . 1.60 2.80 1.00 2.00
Vaporizing . . 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50

 

*Taken in 100 foot reels
TTaken in 50 foot reels

Colored film adds greatly to the beauty of the
recreation movie. It is more expensive than black
and white, and it requires plenty of sunlight—it ‘
is almost impossible to ' get good results with
colored film on cloudy days, in deep shadows, or
at twilight.

Movies of the community recreation program
can add interest to all activities. It will provide an
additional activity in taking pictures and editing
them and will give the community a permanent
pictorial record of the recreation program.

 

 

A Quarter Century
of Service

THE 1946 ANNUAL REPORT of the Lancaster,
Pennsylvania, Recreation Association is dedi—
cated to M. M. Harnish for 25 years president of
that association. The report says about him:

“Due to Mr. Harnish’s efforts, several outstand-
ing advancements have been made as a result of his
leadership. In 1936, a $50,000 bond issue was
floated to buy permanent playgrounds for the city.

“The Crispus Attucks Recreation Center is the
fulfillment of a long-cherished dream of Mr. Harn-
ish. His efforts in securing a suitable location,
drawing up plans and insisting that the building be
free from debt two years after its dedication, were
greatly appreciated, not only by the Negro mem-
bers of the Center, but by all citizens who have the
welfare of our city at heart.

“In September, 1941, Mr._Harnish was instru-
mental in securing Articles of Incorporation and
Charter for the Recreation Association.

“Mr. Harnish served as chairman of one of the
Post-War Planning Committees. This committee
_made recommendations for the expansion of the
recreational facilities in Lancaster and these recom—
mendations are incorporated in the recent Baker
Survey.

“The Lancaster Recreation Association, Inc., is
a member of the Community Chest. Mr. Harnish
is one of the past presidents and for 21 years has
been an active campaign worker. '

“The continued enthusiasm of Mr. Harnish, as
head of the Recreation Board during the past 25
years is responsible, in a great measure, for the
growing interest of our citizens in securing greater
recreation opportunities for the youth of our city.”

209

  

for

 
 
 
 
 
   

Available
Thru Leading

Distributors

76’! FINIS'I' I” I'll! FIELD I

 

3.4/4...
The PBUEEEDINGS

of the

ANNUAL CONVENTION
St. Louis. Mo.. April. I946

American Association for Health.
Physical Education and
Recreation

Condensations of division meetings, work-
shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

Price $1 .00

Order from’t/Je Association Office

lZOl SIXTEENTH STREET. NW
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

210

 First Choice

Every Sport!

Athletic Goods

MANUFACIUIINO COMPANY o 5". LOUIS 3 MO.

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  

Sibyl Baker Honored

THE SOROPTIMIST CLUB of Washington, D. C.,
recently presented the club’s silver medal o
achievement to Miss Sibyl Baker, Assistant Super-
intendent of the District of Columbia Recreation
Department.

- The occasion was significant, for representatives
of many women’s clubs gathered together and con-
curred in Quota Club’s nomination of Miss Baker
for the honor of “achievement woman of the year.”

Miss Baker was cited for her special interest in
the promotion of drama as a community art, for
her inauguration of the one-act play tournament
(now in its 19th year), her- participation in th
creation of the Civic Theatre, her position of re-
sponsibility in the District Recreation Department
since its formation, her unselfish and courageous
assistance in unifying the District of Columbia rec- _
reation system, her invaluable contributions in
raising personnel standards and salaries when Civil
Service status was established.

Miss Baker has been described by the Washing—
ton Superintendent of Recreation as a “true publi
servant and one who has made' an outstanding con
tribution nationally and locally to the recreatio
profession.”

Books Received

 

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Airplane Model Building, by Gene Johnson. Cornell Mari

time Press, New York. $3.00.
Art and Anatomy, by Heidi Lenssen. Barnes and Noble

New York. $1.50.

Candlemaking, 'by William W. Klenke. Manual Art
Press, Peoria, Illinois. $2.00.

Creating Jewelry, by Andrew Dragunas. Harper an
Brothers, New York. $3.00.

Easy$Crgfts, by Ellsworth Jaeger. Macmillan, New York
1.9 .

First Joiner Crafts, by Charlotte Jacobson. Manual Art
Press, Peoria, Illinois. $1.75.

Palmetto Braiding and W eaoing, by Viva Cooke and Juli
Sampley. Manual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois. $2.75

Paper Sculpture, *by Paul McPharlin. Marquardt an
Company, New York. $3.75.

Rngmaking Craft, by Edith Louise Allen. Manual Ar
Press, Peoria, Illinois. $2.00.

Try It Yourself, by Florence C. E. Anderson, Y.W.C.A.
New York. $.75.

CAMPING

Book of the Camp Fire Girls, Camp Fire Girls, Inc., Ne
York. Revised'Edition. $.60.

Camp Counselor’s Manual, The, by John A. Ledlie an
Francis W. Holbein. Association Press, New Yor

$.75.
RECREATIO

Camping for Crippled Children, by Harry H Howett,
National Society for Crippled Children and Adults,
Inc., Elyria, Ohio.

Cooking Out-of-Doors. Girl Scouts of America, New
York. $1.00.

Established Camp Book, The, Girl Scouts of America,
New York. $2.00.

Toward Better Camping, Developed by the National Com-
mission on Camp Standards of the National Boys’
WOrk Committee of the Young Men's Christian
Association. Association Press, New York. $.50.

CHILDREN

A Day with Dutch Children. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, ChicagouNew York. $.50.

Anaghalook, Eskimo Girl. Encyclopedia Britannica Press,
Chicago—New York. $.50. .

Children on England’s Canals. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, Chicago-——New York. $.50.

Dark Eyes and Her Navajo Blanket. Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica Press, Chicago—New York. $.50.

For a Child—Great Poems Old and New, collected by
VViIma McFarland. The \Nestminster Press, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. $2.50.

French-Canadian Children. Encyclopedia Britannica Press,
Chicago—New York. $.50.

Hans, of the Swiss Alps. Encyclopedia Britannica Press,
Chicago—New York. $.50.

Jumbo Fun Book, The, by Caroline Horowitz and Harold
Hart. Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.50.

Kana, Prince of Darkest Africa. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, Chicago—New York. $.50.

hiateo and the lilexican Fair. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, Chicago—New York. $.50.

.Mrs. Piggle Wiggle, by Betty MacDonald.  B. Lippin-
cott, New York. $2 00.

'My America in Cross Word Puzzles, by Edna D. Francis.
John C. Winston Company, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. $1.50.

Pauli and His Hawaiian Feast. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, Chicago—New York. $.50.

Pedro Picks Coffee in Brazil. EncycIOpedia Britannica
Press, Chicago—New York. $.50.

Shiu Ming, Chinese Boy Scout. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, Chicago—New York. $.50. ’

Young People’s Prayers, by Percy R. Hayword. Associa-
tion Press, New York. $1.50. .

Yukiko and a Japanese Carnival. Encyclopedia Britannica
Press, Chicago—New York. $.50.

GAMES
NatiérgsGames, by Paul W. Nesbit, Estes Park, Colorado.

Party Games for All, by Bernard S. Mason and Elmer D.
Mitchell. Barnes and Noble, Inc., New York. $.75.

HOBBIES

Meteorology for All, by Irving Kohn. Barnes and Noble,
Inc., New York. $1.00.

Photography for All, by Duane Featherstonhau‘gh. Barnes
and Noble, Inc., New York. $.75.

MISCELLANEOUS

All of Us Have Troubles, by Harold Seashore. Associa-
tion Press, New York. $.25.

Community Centers as Living War Memorials, compiled

by James Dahir. Russell Sage Foundation, New
York. $.50.

Cougs;éing Young Adults. Association Press, New York.

iULY 1947

Educators Guide to Free Films. Sixth Annual Edition.
Educators Progress Service, Randolph, Wisconsin.

$4.00.

Group Work-Case Work Cooperation. Association Press,‘
New York. $.50.

Herb’s Blue Bonnet Calls, collected by H. F. Greggerson,
Jr. El Paso, Texas. $1.50.

It’s Up to You, by Seward Hiltner. Association Press,
New York. $.10.

Merrily Dance, by Vytautas Finader Beliajus. Coopera-
tive Recreation Service, Delaware, Ohio. $.25.

Modern Wonder Book of Ships, The, by Norman Carlisle
and Eugene Nelson. John C. Winston Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.50.

More Please, by Dorothy Kunhardt. Simon and Schuster,
New York. $1.00.

Muscle T esting, by Lucille Daniels, Marian Williams,
Catherine Worthingham. W. B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.50.

Playmaking with Children, by Winifred Ward. D. Ap-
pleton-Century Company, New York. $2.50. -

Public Welfare Directory 1947, The, edited by John L.
Goetz. American Public Welfare Association, Chi-
cago, Illinois. $1.80.

Recipes Out of Bilibid, collected by Col. Halstead C.
Fowler. Compiled by Dorothy Wagner. George W.
Stewart, Publisher, Inc., New York. $2.00.

Services for the Open, by Laura I. Mattoon and Helen
D. Bragdon. Association Press, New York. $2.50.

Small Town, by Granville Hicks. Macmillan Company,
New York. $3.00.

So You Were Elected, by Virginia Ballard and Harry C.
McKown. Whittlesey House, New York. $2.50.

Stories for Talks to Boys, by F. H. Cheley. Association
Press, New York. $2.50.

Swimming Pool Data and Reference Annual—14th Edition
1946. Hoffman-Harris, Inc., New York. Subscrip-
tion $3.00. -

Swimming Pool Operation. State of Illinois Department
of Public Health, Springfield, Illinois.

Teen Days,, by Frances Bruce Strain. D. Appleton-Cen-
tury Company, New York. $2.75.

MUSIC

Game of Harmony, The, by Ross he Finney. Harcourt,
Brace and Company, New York. $3.00.. '

Music Box Book, The, by Syd Skolsky. E. P. Dutton and
Company, New York. $1.50.

SPORTS
Handbook of Sailing, 'by Charles D. White. Thomas Y.
Crowell Company, New York. $3.00.

Judge Landis and Twenty-Five Years of Baseball, by 

G. Taylor Spink. Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New
York. $3.00.

Ohicial Recreational Games—Bowling, Track and Field
Guide 1916-1948. Edited by Edythe Saylor, Mildred
Lucy, Erva E. Hanschke. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $.35.

Ohicial Sports Library for Women. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $.35.

Opicial Tennis Guide 1947. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $.50.

ijicial Track and Field Guide 1947. A. S. Barnes and
Company. $.50.

Paufish, by Byron W. Dalrymple. Whittlesey House, New
York. $4.50.

1947 Softball Guide and Rules. A. S. Barnes and Com
pany, New York. $.50.

211

Has Frivoli’ry a Place in Life?”

By Archdeacon A. P. GOWER-REES

than in his amusements. Those who regard all

amusement as either dangerous or unnecessary
are fewer in number than formerly. Recreation is
necessary for effective work. Amusement has its
lawful place in life.

No one in these days would endorse the Arch-
bishop’s declaration, “Pleasures are like mush—
rooms—it is so difficult to distinguish those that
are wholesome from those which are poisonous
that it is better to abstain from them altogether.”

There are those who find it difficult to give a
place to the clown in their scheme of the universe.
The fear of amusement in itself, however, betrays
an incomplete view of man’s nature. It fails to
enjoy the salt of life, its zest, its merriment, its
laughter.

IN NOTHING is a man’s character more apparent

Definitions

Yet we must be on our guard against being so
avid of enjoyment as to make pleasure the chief
object of desire. Life cannot be lived worthily
except through discipline.

Our opportunities of enjoyment have immensely
increased in modern times, but it is doubtful
whether they have grown in pr0portion to the
demand.

The desire for pleasure has become so insistent
that it would seem to be insatiable, and forms of
diversion have been invented and accepted which
would seem scarcely consistent with self-respect.
Recreation has largely become mere amusement,
and amusement has degenerated to frivolity.

It is well to distinguish between these things.
Recreation is the play of those faculties which are
dormant in a man’s daily work, or a fresh engage—
ment of their powers in self-chosen occupation.

By such complementary energy they repair the
vigor of our whole manhood. Recreation there-
fore may be called a duty to oneself, and a condition
-of continuance in effective work.

Amusement at one time meant mere bewilder-
ment and sometimes deception; today it stands for
those pleasures which demand the least effort,
whether of mind or body, and are designed to pass

 

‘Reprintod by permission from The Montreal Gazette, July 6, 1946.

212

    
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
   

the vacant hours in enjoyment. Amusement ma
be commendable or blameworthy. That depend
on its character.

F rivolity, on the other hand, is a mere killin
of time by senseless occupation, the dissipation 0
energy for immediate gratification, with no resul
beyond itself, resulting in a weakening of th
moral fibre by a satiety which ever seeks ne
distraction.

Frivolity is always found where men’s love 0
enjoyment is in excess of their moral interests. I
is the danger of those whose means of indulgenc
are unrestrained by the sense of responsibility
and who have found no worthy purpose for their
energies.

The frivolous trifle life away as if it were a vain
freak of chance or an unsubstantial dream. They
not only lose hold of moral truth themselves, but
inevitably they end in regarding all their compan-
ions as equally senseless to higher things.

This is the cause of their degradation, their
startling moral perversity, their Sle'lSh obtuseness
to the needs of others, and their bewildering per-
version of all the standards of morality. Frivolity
ends in moral death.

This sinister disease is found in unexpected
places and in most varied forms. It may have its
place in the sanctuary no less than in the haunts of
pleasure. It may use the sacred language of re-
ligion as well as the vulgar patois of the demimonde.

For is it not frivolity to profess religion and no
to give oneself to its service, to make its faith .
theme for discussion and not to make a consciou
response to its claims, to be occupied with its tem
poral affairs and not to accept its spiritual au
thority, to be bemused by excessive zeal for th
small points of tradition and to neglect the awfu
challenge of its abiding mysteries?

Frivolity has a large and varied wardrobe, an
it struts on many stages.

Antidote

The best antidote to frivolity is to welcome t
true joys of life. The pleasures of the imaginati
are worthy, and so are the pleasures of the b
when they are controlled by temperance a

RECREATIO

 

   
     
  

N0 Othertflimbinz No other play device can
Structure I“ compare with the famous

JUNGLEGYM JUNGLEGYM for safety, for

low maintenance cost, and for ‘

beneficial development of a child’s body
and mind. No Other play device can com-
pare for popularity with children them-
selves . . . . for the jUNGLEGYM offers
unlimited opportunities for imaginative
play, and satishes the child’s basic instinct
to climb.

“HLPORTER

 

CLIMBING STRUCTURE

REG. U. S. PAT. OFF.

3 U V .-
x
_. a. . r5, z~ 33."; . >5

I I 4
:c -

V -|
-,.- 
0.

optional.

+"

 

There are scores of other reasons why

“ thousands of JUNGLEGYMS are in daily

use from coast to coast! For instance, the
JUNGLEGYM accommodates more chil-
dren per square foot of ground occupied than
any other play device, and costs less per
child accommodated than any other appa-
ratus. No wonder leaders in education, rec-
reation, health and social work have for a

third of a century called the JUNGLEGYM
"the perfect playground device.”

WRITE FOR PORTER’S COMPlETE RECREATION EQUIPMENT CATAlOG
Swings o Seesows o Slides 0 Merry Go Rounds 0 Combinations

OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

lULY 1947

    
 

  F01“ elementarYs

children of all ages; steel construction,
8’ 4' long, 6' 3' wide, with 10' 6' tower.

chool

  For young children;

hardwood construction, 5' 0" square, with
6’ 9" tower. Slide 16' wide by T 10' long,

CORPORATION.

213

  

purity. There are pleasures of the mind and of
the affections; there are pleasures in duty faith-
fully discharged, in work done honestly, in self-
sacrilice for others.

And there are other pleasures—pleasures of the
soul in its joyous quest for beauty, truth and love,

Magazines and Pamphlets
1 Recently Received Containing Articles at 2

 
   

Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

as it becomes conscious in an ever-increasing de- MAGAZINES
gree'of spiritual'realities which are the source of The Washington Pareaneacher, March 1947
infinite and abiding Joy. Family Fun, Thomas Lantz
- - - - Beach and Pool, March 1947
A man. Who has_attamed thls JOYOWIIOI 1101: be Basic Principles of Pool Design, Construction,
bemused by the garish pretenses of frivolity. Operation

Public Relations for Pools and Beaches, Bert Nevins I

Survey Midmonthly, March .1947
Community Organization from an Editor’s Desk,
Karl F. Zeisler

The Teachers’ Digest, March 1947

FOR ALL MAJOR SPORTS The Lowly Tin Can Comes into Its Own, William

This Enely linished Trophy is available 8. Rice

in four popular sizes. Beautiful new - I u w i n -

design with polished Sclme finish. The Equal Chance System in Schools, Jackson R.
No. Ht. Each Sharrnan

23A 13” $14.50
24A 16” 21.50
25A 19” 25.50
26A 22” 35.00

Engraving 7c per letter.
Your inquiry invited.

Progressive Architecture, March 1947

Daytona Beach Master Plan I
Opera Shed

Parks and Recreation; March 1947 t 
Problems and Standards of Park Planning (Talk by _

Herbert Hare)
How One Park System Operates Its Stands, Rudolph

Quality individual and team prizes 
and awards for every major sport 
are available. Trophies with fully 

 

‘nodeled athletic ligures may be pur-  Krestan
chased for as little as $2.50. Discussion on Bridle Trails
WM" pep" Rf” Fr“ mmm‘wd cam!" Weed Control in Lawn Areas, Gordon B. Wallace
E D W I N W. L A N E C O. The Maintenance Mart
32 w. RANDOLPH STREET CHICAGO 1, ILL. Safety Education, March 1947

 

Safe Pedaling, T. M. Riley

NEA Journal, March 1947
A Child’s Bill of Rights, John N. Buck
Club Gunga Din, Inez Macaulay

The American City, March 1947 _
Some Helpful Books and Pamphlets on Community
Planning and Control of Land Uses

Journal of Health and Physical Education, March 1947
Recreation in a Neuro-Psychiatric Program, Virginia
Zohn, Capt. Morris A. Wessel
A Clinic for Swimming Officials, Evelyn K. Dillon
Organizing a Recreational Program in Small and
Large Companies, Floyd R. Eastwood

Survey Graphic, March 1947
Shakespeare’s Heavy Rivals, George H. Henry
Time for a Positive Morality, Henry A. Murray, M.D. _

 

Firm Name in Trampomng Camping Magazine, March 1947
presents An Expert Feels the Pulse of Camping, Wes H. '
Klusmann -
  Camping Trips and Hikes, héorriion A. Pierce .
- - Toward One World, Ralph . Hi 1 I
The onglnal'Ad-vanced Camping and Conservation, Elizabeth W. Hall '

T R A M P o L I N E* Cain/IESEI lggsiiildngiiliielity in Emergency Operation, ,

*Nome TRAMPOLINE Reg. u. 5. Pat. Office Imng B- Nalburg
Architectural Engineering, March 1947

Improved—Refined by Ten Years Playground Equipment

DESIGN, TESTS and USE in Gyms and National Parent-Teacher, March 1947

_ I Recreation—Family Style, J. W. Faust
Armed Forces a1. Y 5' POOIS' New Education for a New Age, Roben J. Maaske

camps and BeaChes Junior League Magazine, April 1947
FOLDS READILY . EASILY MOVED All—round and Year—round, Ruth B-rack
Scouting, April 1947
NOW AVAILABLE at 5209'00 Using Nature on a Hike
Complete—£03. Cedar Rapids, Iowa Planning for May
Write for Free Literature C“"‘€é¥fh5g“§‘gi”er fgrilklg‘li E . C G be
1 a can acsac, rwm . err
N I S S E N T R A M P O I. I N E Control of Insects, Duncan E. Longworth

Teach Campers the Safe Way, Martha Shaeffer
Sharing Camp with the Neighbors, Eula May Stock
man

214 RECREATIO

200A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

a.—

Parents’ Magazine, April 1947
Children’s Leisure-Time Activities, Mrs. Morris
Kinzler and Mrs. Bernard S. Wortis
Music Is Everywhere, Margaret Bayless Jagger
He Needs a Hobby, Joy 0. Freed '
It Doesn’t Take Folding Money, Maude Hitchcox
Ramsay
Make Gardening Fun, Paul F. Frese
Beach and Pool, April 1947
Basic Principles of Pool Design, Construction, Oper-
ation (Part II)
Pointers on How to Paint Your Pool

Minnesota Municipalities, April 1947
Municipal Outdoor Swimming Pools in Minnesota,

Elizabeth Engebretson

The Crippled Child, April 1947 ‘
Art and the Crippled Child, Elizabeth Wells
Robertson
Blueprint for Successful Camping, Bradford G.
Sears
Camping for the City-Bound, Clyde Carter

Journal of Health and Physical Education, April 1947
"Evaluation of the Fundamentals of Motor Perform‘
ance, Elizabeth G. Rodgers
“How We Do It”—A Coeducational Sports Day,
Jean Swenson
Dance in a Civic Recreation Program, Ruth Strode

NEA Journal, April 1947
Flag Football, C. *G. White

The Nation’s Schools, April 1947
Farm Program for City Children, Eva N. Palmer
Play’s the Thing, James .F Conover, Emma Jane
Sa’bistan
That New Movie Projector, Its Care and Operation,
Seldon W. Gerrish

National Parent-Teacher, April 1947
Cooperating Citizens—or Delinquents? J. Edgar
Hoover
+ Wanderers Afoort, Robert M. Ormes

Childhood Education, April 1947
Children as Scientists, Herbert S. Zim .
Experience in Natural Science, A. E. Whirling

Nine-Year-Olds Experience Science and Healthful
Living, Mabel R. Hearne

The Camp Fire Girl, April 1947
Teen Time Party Hour, Jane Dale
Camping Is a Family Affair, Janet L. McKellar
Creating More Than a Play, Florence Morena

The American City, May 1947
Floodlighting Combination Athletic Fields, F. T.
Tillemans

H ygeia, May 1947
Not Just Exercise, Fred V. Hein

Jewish Welfare Bulletin, May 1947
Sharpen the Leadership Tools
The Project Method at Camp
Rainy Weather-Wise
Home Camps Build on Life Experiences
Summer Varieties in Town

The Education Digest, May 1947

The Imperative Needs of Secondary-School Youth
Children and the Comics, May Hill Arbuthnot

Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1947

Environment and the Modern Dance, Lenore Mary
Foehren-bach

Selecting the Camp Waterfront Staff, Sidney C.
Hazelton
The Crippled Child, June 1947

Enjoy Birds from Your Window, Reynold E. Carlson
LealMluSipl Pave the Way to Health, Esther Goetz
i .i an

? PAMPHLETS

Horizon Club Program Book
CairnpyFire ‘Girls, 88 Lexington Avenue, New York 16,
. . l

Recreationoin California (Report and Recommendations)
Committee for the Study of Recreation in California,
Rosenberg Foundation, San Francisco, California

IpLY 1947

\

How to Build a Soap Box Derby Racer, by Schielb, Stall-
smith and Schlemmer. Hall Publishing Co., Boston,
Mass.- $1.00

Woodlawn—A Study in Community Conservation
Chicago Plan Commission, Chicago, Ill.
Books for Science Clubs, 1947 edition

Science Clubs of America, 1719 N Street NW,
Washington 6, D. C.

Play Schools Association, 1946-Annual Report
Play Schools Association Inc., 119 West 57th Street,
New York 19, N, Y.

Keeping Up with T een-Agers, Evelyn Millis Duvall
Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 127. Public Affairs
Committee, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16,
New York

   
  
  
  
 

  

DIAMOND

SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop_
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

IIA v: 10055in ran 71/15 FREE 8005:”?

JUST OFF THE PRESS—this impor—
tant booklet, chuck full of valuable
facts on getting’your High School
Boxing Program underway is yours
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Walsh, it clears up numerous
misconceptions about boxing—espe—
cially valuable to newcomers in the
program.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC, WIS.

Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mats,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

 

215

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

The Cooperative Process Among

National Social Agencies

By Ray Johns. Association Press, 347 Madison Avenue,
New York 17, N. Y. 1946. $3.00.

R. JOHNS has apparently done a very thorough job in

studying the history of c00perative relationships
among national agencies in the fields of social work, rec-
reation, informal education and youth activities, tracing
these developments from the informal cooperation of
national agency executives in the early 1900’s to the re-
organization of the National Social Work Council into
the National Social Work Assembly in 1945 and 1946.
The study of organized cooperationhas Ibeen limited to
the activities of ten councils, four of the councils being
given limited consideration only. In studying the activi-
ties of national agencies and the possibilities of coopera-
tive efforts among them, 17 national agencies were studied
and only those with local affiliated chapters were included.
The history of the USO. is given more consideration
than that of any other agency, two chapters being de-
voted to it.

The report of Dr. Johns’ studies also includes an analysis
of the social forces Which have apparently affected co-
operation among national agencies and forces within the
agencies themselves which affect cooperation. He includes
his analyses of the issues involved in cooperation, some of
the dilemmas encountered, methods of achieving coopera-
tion, ;basic principles of collaboration and what the future
prospects are for effective collaboration.

Dr. Johns stresses what has developed in the way of
cooperation in connection with the war emergency—per-
haps he is too optimistic as to what can be done in normal
times without the special conditions obtaining in a war
situation. He does point out that a longer time prospec-
tive on the U.S.O. experience would Ibe necessary for a
thoroughly reliable appraisal of its significance.

One of the basic principles which must obtain, accord-
ing to this report, is that satisfactory participation in the
cooperative process among national social agencies will
arise from'consent rather than frOm authority or coercion.
At the same time he strongly recommends a joint na-
tional campaign for financing national services when ex-
perience shows that power and control usually follow the
control of funds. He does point out the efforts which
have been made for mergers, most of which have not
been successful, and states that little evidence has been
encountered in this study to indicate that mergers of na-
tional agencies are at this time an impelling need.

Most persons will agree that there is real need of full
cooperation among national agencies as well as among
local groups. There is not the same agreement that cen-
tral financing, centrally operated common services, and
definite organic relations are essential to full cooperation.
Dr. Johns quotes Mary E. Richmond as saying in 1910:
“We need not organic union but an exchange of insights.”

216

Leonard's Guide to the History of |

Physical Education

By Fred Eugene Leonard, A.M., M.D.; Revised and en
larged 'by George B. Affleck, A.M., M.P.E. Third edi
tion, published 1947. Octavo, 480 pages with 121 illus
trations. L6a & Febiger, Philadelphia, Pa. Cloth $5.50

THE THIRD EDITION of this book brings up to date fact

concerning the development Of physical education fr
certain selected organizations throughout the world. I
touches on the main contributions to physical education o~
some of the leaders of the movement during the las
twenty years. It describes the growth and various phi
losophies of physical education from the time of the earl
Greeks and Romans down to the modern movements °
Denmark, Sweden, Germany and England. The secon
part of the book covers the development of physical edu
cation in the United States, including American college
and universities and the Y.M.C.A. There is a chapt
devoted to the history of the playground movement i
Germany and an extensive chapter on the playgroun
movement in America.

The content of the book indicates considerable origin
research, and the work should prove to be a helpful ref
erence volume for workers in the physical education fiel

   
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
     
 
   
  
  

Ofiicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH. Englewood, N. J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. .
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jack-sonv111e, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, \Vest Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, New York, N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N._Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y. .
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francmco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICK M. WARDURO, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord, N. H.

RECREATI f

IT is better not to make merit a matter of reward
Lest people conspire and contend,

Not to pile up rich belongings

Lest they rOb,

Nor to excite by display

Lest they covet.

A sound leader’s aim

Is to open people’s hearts,

Fill their stomachs,

Calm their wills,

Brace their bones

And so to clarify their thoughts and cleanse their needs
That no cunning meddler could touch them:

Without being forced, without strain or constraint,
Good government comes of itself.

—Laot2'u-Bynner, quoted in
San Francisco ReCreation

Buy at the Bottom

“ N times like these invest in boys and girls. Men

talk about buying a stock at the bottom. When
you invest in a boy or girl you are always buying at
the bottom. You are sure that the youngster is going
up, and there is no telling how far. I invite every man
and Woman in America to take a flyer in Childhood
Preferred. I predict a great futurefor this security.
You are sure to get a man or a woman. You may get
a great man or a_ greatnwoman.”

——Bruce Barton

 

