 

March 1947

 

.- Vol. XL. No. [2 Price 35 Cenfs

 

RECREATION
"in Warck 7 7

 
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
    

 

Thomas A. Edison (editorial), People’s Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 64

by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 625 Letter from England . . _ I . ' . . . . I _ . . c I . _ . 64

135333“ Party Line! by Karl Detzer' ' ' ' ' 627 Clubs for Bowmen, by F. T. Bawden

Outing Program, by M. M. Nadine,  ‘ 629 . and W. H. Hellmann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65

. Th S b d . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 65
Plans and Surveys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 631 6 core oar .

The Postman Brings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Experiment in Camping,

by Maurice Case . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . I.  . 632 Survey, by Jane Poulton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65

Great Gin-tn a Small Paekage.‘. . . . ; '. . . . 634 Recreation Training Institutes . . . . . . . . . . 66
Honorary"0rder of Merit. .  . . .-. . . . . . . . 635 Referenduius: .I.   . . . . 66
Ogden éalances the P'mgmm’   . . ._:-  . .  . .. .

by Ellis 8' McAlliSter ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' '  ' ' ' 636 W-orld iatgiliilay . . . L  . . . . . . .--.   . . '. 67
Sports in America. .; . . . .I ....... .  .  an  Baa-ks Received H I: , . . .    ,  ._ 6
Let’s Look at the Records ‘_ ‘I Nevv Publications in the Leisure

by A. E. Fradenburgh . . . . ......  -. . . . 644 I Time Field  . :7 . . . . . . . , . . . . . .  . .  673

Index toVolume XL .............   675
 I (Cover print by Gedge Harmon)

    

\

RECREATION is published monthly by and in the. interests of the National Recreation Association, formerly named Play"
ground and Recreation Association of-America, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10. N. Y.; is on tile in public librariesf‘ll
and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12, 1929, at the Post I
Oflice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1. 1924.

Copyright 1947, by the National Recreation Attaciation. Incorpoth

PRINTED IN THE U. s.a.
VOLUME FORTY, NUMBER TWELVE .9. to \g

Thomas A. Edison

HOMAS A. EDISON made an outstanding con-
T tribution to leisure and recreation through

his inventions. He greatly increased the lei-
sure of the world available for more abundant
living. He added immeasurably to our comfort
and our convenience. We now enjoy music in
our own homes that would not have been pos-
sible for us to have recorded but for his genius.
He wanted to see a better and a happier world.
He himself had a contagious love of life and a
joy in work.

One of 'the few times he ever allowed a public

celebration of his birthday was at a playground.

On the day he was 82 he was the guest of the

children of Fort Myers, Florida; enjoyed with
them the pantomimic' show of many of the out-
standing events of his life; ate with them the
cookies they had baked—“each one carefully
marked with a large 82.

Thomas A. Edison also belong to the Na—
tional Recreation Association because he so
wholeheartedly backed his wife in her work
with the Association. His face lighted up in a
very beautiful way as he referred to recreation as
her work. He himself participated in meetings
held in his own home in behalf of the society,
even joining in some of the simple childhood
games. His interest in music was well known.

For thirty-three years Mrs. Thomas A. Edi-
son has served as a member of the Board of

Directors and an active leader in the National
Recreation Association. For a period she paid
the salary and the entire expenses for an out-
standing rural recreation person of statesmanlike
qualities who served in a sense as her substitute
in training and guiding many volunteer rural
recreation leaders. Not only has Mrs. Edison

herself contributed generously and raised thous-_

ands of dollars in gifts from others, but she has
given her best thought to the national problems
related to music and to gardens. She has had a
very special interest in the use of abandoned
canals for recreation,— for canoeing, boating.
swimming, skating. Many persons today enjoy
recreation on the waterways of the United States
because of her active and persistent campaigning.

It is well to remember not only the pleasure
which Thomas A. Edison had in his wife's work

 

in recreation, but also that his son, Charles Edi-
son, later to be Governor of New Jersey and
U. S. Secretary of the Navy, as a young man for
two years contributed much of his time as a

volunteer neighborhood recreation worker in
New York City.

Five members of the Edison family have given
active backing to the Association. In other words,
recreation has been a family interest.

Though neither Mrs. Thomas A. Edison nor
Mr. Edison has ever had much publicity in con-
nection with recreation, nevertheless much that
exists today in recreation is due to the work and
the support received and to Mrs. Edison's will-
ingness to put all her strength and influence back

of the work.

There is every reason that recreation workers
everywhere should observe 1947 as the hun-
dredth anniversary of the birth year of Thomas

Alva Edison.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

DRURY COLLEGE LIBRARY 625
Springfield, Missouri

Courtesy Recreation Department, K ingsport, Tenn.

 

RECREATION

Biggest Party Line

By KARL DETZER

A radio announcer takes a busman’s holiday every night

HE SHIP WAS CAUGHT in polar ice off Green-
land; the cook was ill and the crew of young
Americans in the survey party were tired of
eating out of tins.
“If we just had some corn bread!” one boy ex-
claimed.
“Why not call Dot ?” another suggested and in
a few minutes the ship was calling Amateur Sta—
tion W21XY at Springfield, Long Island. When
a woman’s cheerful voice replied across the Arctic
airwaves the icebound crew explained its predica-

, ment.

“Just a minute, boys,” the voice said. “I’ll get
my cookbook.” A moment later that voice was
reading a cornbread recipe. That night lonely
Americans in the Arctic ate heartily and Mrs. Hall
chalked up another “contact” in her radio logbook.

Dorothy Hall is probably the most widely known

radio amateur in the world. Thousands of short-v-

’wave enthusiasts in Europe and Asia, in Africa,
Australia and South America call her, “Dot” and
get her to do an amazing variety of errands for
them. They repay her in part by filling her little
house with dishes, pictures, pottery, ore nuggets,
wooden shoes and other souvenirs. When they
happen to come to New York, often as ‘not they
.move into the second floor of the little suburban
house where Dot Hall maintains a small dormi-
tory of army cots.

“Of course I don’t charge them rent!” she ex—
claims. “If I ever go to Athens or Rotterdam or
Cairo or London, I know I’ll be just as welcome
as they are here.”

Mrs. Hall is a small, pink-cheeked woman with
big blue eyes and prematurely white hair and a

brisk, friendly voice. Eight working hours a 'day
I she is a professional radio announcer on Station
WNYF, the short-wave station of the New York
Fire Department. This is exacting split-second
work. Each fire-alarm in any of the city’s five
boroughs must be reported on the air immediately.
In disasters like the recent tenement collapse and

MARCH 1947

fire, a- portable radio on the scene keeps in constant
touch with Dot Hall’s desk, reporting the progress
of rescue work and calling for men and equipment
as they are needed.

After eight hours of this, Mrs. Hall sits for six
or eight more hours at the instruments in her din-

ing room, holding chatty conversations with men
and women all over world.

That dining room, so jammed with elaborate ap-
paratus that for years no one has thought of
dining in it, is home station to hundreds of GIs
sweating out their time at lonely outposts in Europe
and the Pacific. Night after night their families
find their way to Mrs. Hall’s house, talk to their
hearts’ content with their soldiers overseas.

One recent night three families from the Bronx
held long, satisfying conversations with their sons
and brothers. One grandmother came along. She
had little English, so she spoke Yiddish, and a
young American, sitting in what two years earlier
had been a Hitler headquarters, replied in the
same tongue.

Last week a woman sat at the microphone and
talked with her husband in Germany for three
hours and ten minutes—and they never repeated a
thing!

Another evening a girl from New York’s China-
town talked with her brother, an American signal
corps major in Honolulu. The next night Dot Hall
was able to get through to Tokyo where a GI gave
her a message for his best girl in Pennsylvania.

Mrs. Hall speaks only English and has held
conversations with 126 countries, dominions, and
colonies. English, she contends, is the universal
language and never once has she had trouble find-
ing amateurs who Speak it, anywhere in the world.
Her station, one of the first in America able to
reach “hams” overseas, was built and is main-
tained by her husband, Captain Horace Hall, an
Australian by birth and a retired shipmaster in the
American merchant marine.

627

Mike to the Rescue

Dot Hall first came to national attention in 1938
when she relayed the news to the British govern-
ment that the descendants of the B ounty mutineers
on Pitcairn Island in the far Pacific were starving.
For several months she had been making occa-
sional contact with the island radio station. The
first call was prosaic enough. The Pitcairn radio
operator asked Mrs. Hall to find why a hot water
bottle he had ordered from Montgomery Ward had
never arrived. She attended to that errand quickly:
the' operator had failed to give his complete ad-
dress.

Then in June 1938 the island’s chief magistrate,
unable to reach the British government through
any other channel, appealed to Mrs. Hall for help.
There had been no ship into Pitcairn for two years.
Food, medical supplies and gasoline to operate the
radio were perilously low. The islanders needed
help quickly.

Mrs. Hall picked up her telephone and called
the British consul in New York and immediately
got snarled in diplomatic red tape. Pitcairn. it
seemed, should have called a British radio station.
But Dot Hall isn’t the sort of person who lets red
tape stop her. That same night she began to search
for ships in the Pacific.

A British vessel answered. Only 30 hours from
Pitcairn, it turned around and two days later was
unloading food, medicines and gasoline on the
beach.

Press and radio got the story and several nights
later Mrs. Hall held another conversation with
Pitcairn while a coast-to-coast network picked up
their voices and rebroadcast them to the nation.

Dot’s first international rescue message had
flashed out early in 1937, when a British amateur
operator asked her to help find his brother, one
Captain Lochs, who was on an expedition to the
Andes and had dropped from sight. She began to
call South American stations and the search spread
across that continent on the airwaves. Within a
week the expedition was discovered, safe and
sound but out of money, sitting in an obscure port
waiting for a ship.

The next month Canadian officials asked ama—
teur radio operators to help find a Canadian expe-
dition, exploring the ice packs of Baffin Bay, which
had not been heard from for weeks. A few days
later Dot relayed a message from it to its home
, base, and through the remainder of its trip she
was its daily contact with home.

The Soviet government shouted for help in the
early spring of 1939 when its much publicized

628

Moscow-New York experimental flight ran into
engine trouble over Canada, after crossing the At-
lantic safely. The fliers had radioed that they were
about to attempt an emergency landing on the ice
off an island in the St. Lawrence River. After
that there was only Silence.

Mrs. Hall had never been in touch with any
radio amateurs living along the St. Lawrence. The

distance from Long Island was just wrong for that

region. Her signals either didn’t go far enough
or jumped over.

“I figured that some station in Central America
might contact them, though, so I began to send out
calls to the south,” she says. “I soon had an
answer from a woman on Haiti, a grandmother
around 70 years old. I told her about the trouble
so she began to send her signals north. It wasn’t
any time at all till a ham on the St. Lawrence
answered. He’d heard a plane that sounded as if
it was in trouble. So he went out to look.”

The man walked six miles, found the crew of the
smashed plane alive but suffering from exposure.
He organized a rescue party, brought the Russians
to safety, then relayed a message from the fliers-—
from the St. Lawrence to Haiti, to Dot Hall, to
NVashington, to the Kremlin.

In War and in Peace

Like all other amateur stations, this one was

barred from the air during the recent war. Dot '

Hall took a job teaching radio code to servicemen
at a New York school and in the evening listened
to the military messages Hashing around the world.
Among others she heard General MacArthur’s
headquarters vainly trying to reach the War De-
partment with a daily communique. After several
nights she called up the Army.

“General MacArthur’s trying to reach you on
the air from Australia,” she reported. The Army

was interested, at last sent observers to the Long .

Island house, satisfied itself that this small station

was getting reports which military receivers-

missed.

So the VVar Department strung a special line
to Dot Hall’s dining room and installed a record-
ing instrument there. Each morning at eight she
turned on the recorder, took the message, then sent
it on by land line to the military authorities.

On Admiral Byrd’s first South Polar eXpedi-j

tion, Mrs. Hall acted as contact between all mem-‘W

bers of the Byrd party and their families. Byrd
asked her to act in the same capacity on his pres—

'1

I’ll

ent journey, and she is again in nightly communi- I

cation with the expedition and the men are hearing
regularly from home.

RECREATION

%

“We’ve got the biggest party line in the world,”
Dot Hall says. “It’s worth all the trouble and ex-

pense, just to have the satisfaction of putting the
calls through.”

One night recently a man’s voice with a slight
accent called the Long Island station from Cairo.

“I heard you talking to Athens,” he explained.
“I hope you don’t mind the intrusion.” When she
said that she didn’t mind he explained that she
was the first women with whom he had ever talked
on the air. After they had chatted for a while she
was ready to sign off when he said he’d like to send
her a memento. When it arrived it was a set of
reproductions from the national museum of Egypt
and with it came a pleasant note from Dot Hall’s
new friend of the air—JKing F arouk.

But chiefly she talks with GI’s, lonely Amerij

cans in Europe and Asia and on faraway islands"

in the Pacific. Their families sit with her in the
crowded dining room while the magic of radio
erases oceans and continents and families get to-
gether to talk about simple, homey things.

 

 

Outing Program

By M. M. NADINE, JR.

Assistant Recreation Director
Fort Wayne, Indiana

N THE EARLY SPRING of 1946'the Allen County
I Tuberculosis Association returned to the City
Park Board of Fort Wayne, Indiana, the facilities
they had used for several years as a health camp
for children. These facilities include a frame build-
ing 20’ x 125’ with 50 steel folding cots and 50
(mattresses; another building 20’ x 80’ equipped
With an electric range, electric refrigerator, tables
1nd chairs, table service for 50; a large seven room
“wo-story frame house with fireplace and basement.
Ad joining the house is an outdoor open air pavil-
on 2 5’ x 25’.

   
 
 
 
 
 
   

The camp is located in the northwest section of
ort Wayne in one of the city’s most beautiful
iarks—-—I45 acres that‘are wooded and hilly with
1 twelve acre artificial lake, a bird sanctuary, trails,
:)rid1e. paths, outdoor fireplaces, archery ranges,
1nd playground. equipment. The facilities are in an
solated section of this park.

MARCH 1947 ,

A conference was held with the Nature and
Camping Consultant of the National Recreation
Association, and the Supervisor of Recreation,
Division of State Parks of the Indiana Depart-
ment of Conservation, to determine the best use
that could be made of this area. As a result of this
conference, it was decided to use the area for out-
ings and surveys were made at once of the availa-
bility of funds, the leadership available, the pro-
gram desired, and the available transportation.

Funds for this project had not been included in
the current budget of the City Park Board, there-
fore civic groups and the Community Chest were
queried and the Pi chapter of Psi Iota Xi, one of
the most recreation-minded civic groups in the
city, contributed $1,000 for leadership. The Com-
munity Chest was asked to support the project up
to $500 if funds from the Psi Iota Xi Sorority
were insufficient. The City Utilities cooperated by
furnishing a bus to transport the children daily to
and from the area to the playgrounds since there
was no available public transportation.

A director was selected for the area.’ He pos-
sessed the enthusiasm, skills and experience neces-
sary to “tackle” this new Fort Wayne program. A
staff of four was chosen to assist the director. Also, ,
it was planned that a leader from each playground,
would accompany the children on all outings.

The staff for the outing area attended a very
timely Nature Conference at McCormick’s Creek
State Park conducted by Indiana University and
the Division of State Parks.

Pro gram

The Franke Outing Program tentatively in-
cluded the following:

A iiag raising ceremony upon the children’s arrival
at the area (ab-out 9:00 A.M.) with greetings, intro-
ductions, and explanations of the program by the
director.

Division of the youngsters into f0ur groups with a
camp leader in charge for exploration hikes over
trails; for collecting stones, insects, leaves, and the
like; and for playing games.

Return to the area and cooking out of doors over
“hobo” stoves (tin can cooking with No. 10 cans)
and open fires, boys and girls assisting in prepara-
tion of food, cooking, cleaning up.

Rest period (about 1 to 1% hours). Resting, visiting
the bird sanctuary, playing quiet games—all under
leadership.

Craft period (about 2 hours) stressing nature crafts,
mounting and preserving leaves, insects, deveIOping
indoor museum, feeding and caring for pets, and
the like.

Flag lowering ceremony and good-byes.

Leave in bus for playgrounds (about 4:30 P.M.).

629

Each child was required to get his parents’ sig-
natures on a form that was issued by the Park
Board. This form acquainted the parents with the
program at the outing area and also released the
Park Board of reSponsibility for possible injuries
resulting from accidents (not one child was injured
last summer). A fee of 25 cents was charged each
child. This helped to defray the cost of meat, milk,
and handcraft materials used. The children were
requested to bring bread, fresh fruit, and any other
foodstuffs they desired. ‘

The program was planned to be a playground
excursion or a day’s outing. It is not to be con-
fused with a day camp or camping. Efforts were
made to determine how this project could be cor-
related with playground activities, and it was felt
that this could be done by discussions with the
playground leaders during the pre—playground
training course and at weekly in—service training
meetings; by drawing a schedule for all I7 play-
grounds so that boys and girls from two play-
grounds (ages 8 to I 3) could participate daily in
the Camp Franke Outing Area, Mondays through
Fridays, during the summer playground season;
and by correlating crafts such as making butterfly
nets, insect cages, blueprinting on the playgrounds
before and after the visit to Camp Franke.

Rainy day programs were planned in advance
and the pavilion and museum were used to capacity
on those days.

Participation

A thousand and eighty—nine children participated
in the program last summer. Many children and
adults visited the area and all enjoyed their visits,
particularly watching. the pets (named by boys
and girls) which included “Tippy” the kid goat,
“Chummy” the billy goat, “Traveller” the ’coon
and “Grumpy” his mate, “Susie and Sammy”
snails, “Tillie” the toad, “Snapper” the turtle,

snakes, leeches, frogs, rabbits, a salamander, and
a grand daddy long legs. Several groups from the
Y.M.C.A. visited the camp as well as 63 children
from the Wayne township school. The Handi-
capped Children Association was entertained one
Saturday by the camp staff and 20 “host” young-
sters, who served as arms and legs for the handi—
capped. Those who acted as hosts were volunteers
selected from the playgrounds.

During the latter part of the summer, a 16 mm.
moving picture was made of this program. We
feel that this film will help increase the interest in
outing activities in Fort Wayne. We have found
already that the picture is an excellent means for
making a report to contributing groups and for
furthering publicity and promotion work.

The Future

Future plans for this area include development
of a year-round program by “Winterizing” the
buildings for the use of groups interested in ice
skating, sledding, and tobogganing since this is
one of Fort Wayne’s winter sport areas. More
intensive training is being considered for the out-
ing staff, setting aside one day every two weeks
as a “breather” for the staff to line up new crafts,
new trails and the like for the children when they
make their second and third trips to the area.
Plans are being considered, too, for the purchase
of land that adjoins the area, for expanding the
zoo, dredging the lake and purchasing boats for
boating, establishing a natural overnight camping
area for various organized groups, purchasing a
microscope for further development of nature lore,
and installing a hot water heater.

The outing program was a new project for Fort
Wayne and its outstanding success. has deter-
mined a need for its continuing so that the children
of Fort Wayne may have the experience of regular
organized camping.

 

Government and Leisure

IN THIS AGE of expanding production through almost incredible technological advances, government must

not overlook the fact that one important by-product will be an increase in leisure time for our citi—
zens. The manner in which an individual utilizes his leisure time not only reflects on his own character
and happiness but also on'his value to the community as a citizen. i

Man finds satisfaction in doing things of his own choosing and government must share the rekn
sponsibility for providing opportunities for wholesome recreation in the form of parks, playgrounds, com-r

.‘p‘

it

munity centers and organized programs. By such means any tendency toward moral decline in our'
national life can be effectively resisted and each of us will be able to live fuller and richer lives.

—The Honorable Ralph F. Gates, Governor of Indiana,.
to the State of Indiana Recreation Conference.

*2}
RECREATIONI

 

GEORGE D. BUTLER
Research

HE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION is “at
your service” if you are thinking of recreation
surveys and long range plans for your com-

munitiy.

Community leaders have
come more and more in recent
months to feel that if public
recreation is to be run on the
most efficient lines it must be
based on functional planning—
the kind of planning that re—
lates structures and areas and
facilities to the functions and
services to be provided by
them; and that, further, relates
those functions and services to
the needs, the desires, the re-
sources of the people of the
community. Such planning re-
,quires specialized knowledge
and experience, rooted in un-
derstanding of the whole pur-
pose Of recreation and the ways
that this purpose may be real-
ized in land and in building
. materials, in human beings and
the institutions they have cre—
ated for themselves.

TO the end that this kind, of
intelligent farseeingness may be
accomplished, the Association
has on its staff a group of men
trained to come into a commu-
nity and to “size it up” recrea—
tionally. They are prepared to
analyze conditions in a city—
the location, type and character
of existing recreation areas and
facilities; the social conditions,
population and traffic patterns,
housing problems, and other
varied factors of urban living

as these are related to recreation. On the basis of

thlS analysis the Surveyors are prepared to make
recommendatlons for future acquisitions and

- development of land and facilities in accordance

MARCH 1947

Plans

and

Surveys

 

H. CLIFTON HUTCHINS
Recreation Surveys

 

DONALD L. KLINE
Recreation Buildings

of giving it.

 

ALAN B. BURRITT
Recreation Areas and Facilities

with accepted standards and local needs, to sug-
gest a sound administrative structure for a public
recreation setup, to point out possible ways of

financing the whole long term
program. They are prepared,
too, to give advice about the
kind of activities program that
may be carried on with the fa-
cilities at hand and to indicate
ways in which this program
may be enriched over theyears.

Long range plans and sur-
veys are the special province of

four members of the Associa-
tion’s staff—George D. Butler,

recreation research; Alan B.
Burritt, recreation areas and
facilities; Donald L. Kline, rec-
recreation buildings and areas;
Clifton Hutchins, recreation
surveys. Behind these men is
the whole Association staff (in-
cluding those field representa-
tives who have direct knowl-
edge of recreation situations in
local communities) ready at all
times for consultation and ad-
vice on special problems. SO, it
may be said with truth, that

each long range plan or recrea-
tion survey is backed Wlth all

the Association’s accumulated
experience of' forty years of
serving through recreatlon.

Requests for plans and sur-
veys are filled in the order in
which they are received in the
Office. The charge for the ser-
vice is only so large as is nec-
essary to cover the actual cost

For further information on long
range plans and surveys, as well as on the deSIgn
of individual areas write to the National Recrea—
tion Association.

631

Experiment
in Camping

when the boys and girls are blind. For em—

phasis, we could substitute “particularly when
the boys and girls are blind.” Co—educational ac-
tivity for handicapped persons is a controversial
subject. You can find professional workers with
seemingly sound arguments both pro and con. And
for lay people with their strong personal feelings,
it is usually better to leave the subject alone! Like
many controversies, there are no absolute rights or
wrongs; there are too many variables inside and
outside of people. Most of us do accept the fact
that human beings are biological and psychologi-
cal engines, that acceptable behavior can be de-
veloped more wholesomely in an attitude of frank-
ness, openness and planned activity. Visually han-
dicapped boys and girls are just boys and girls,
their problems of relationship intensified by- a
handicap which limits mobility, and the range and
variety of experience.

Several years ago an executive in one of the
country’s largest agencies serving blind persons
proposed that one of its summer camps be oper-
ated on a co—educational basis for young men and
young women. Dire consequences were predicted
by authoritative, well-informed, well-intentioned
workers in the field. However, the project was
finally approved on an experimental basis, with
emphasis on providing superior leadership. So
much, discussion has developed about the project,
it was felt there would be general interest, not only
regarding co-educational camping, but also re—
garding the actual program through which the
positive and the wholesome predominated and the
best interests of young people were served.

Monday, July I, 1946. Considerable prepara—
tion has gone into having camp ready. It is im-
portant to set a tone of ease, efficiEncy and plan-
ning. The first group of campers (I6 young ladies
and 14 young men) has just arrived at Camp
Lighthouse, located in the thick pine woods that
fringe the coast. Campers and counselors who did
not know each other through agency recreation
activities, have become acquainted on the four-
hour bus trip. Luggage is quickly assembled. and
the campers are comfortably chatting and enjoy-

Bovs WILL BE BOYS, girls will be girls—even

632

By MAURICE CASE
Directorll Men's Recreation Department
The New York Association for the Blind

ing light refreshments in the recreation hall. There
is a brief, friendly welcome by the director, then
cabin assignments. Within an hour some of the
campers are settled in their bunks. Others are
already exploring the camp grounds.

By the next day when reveille goes (after earnest
debate by the campers, at 8 A.M.) the group is
already settled.

Morning

It’s a nice summer morning. The air is clear
and dry. The sun is already warm but a soft, cool
breeze blows in from the bay. The woods behind
the cottages are alive with the sounds of birds and
insects. Ambitious campers return from a pre—
breakfast walk to the beach. Their voices ripple
back on the bay wind. Most of us are washing.
A few linger in bed until the IaSt moment, the
breakfast bell at 8:30. Then we step on it and
screen doors slam as we go back to our cabins for
bunk‘ cleanup. This is the only required chore at
camp. Campers make their own beds and tidy
their cabins. Counselors assist only where neces—
sary.

Emphasis is on campers doing for themselves,
and only a few continue to need some assistance
in their cabin or in getting about the camp grounds.
Occasionally some one might lose his bearings.
Like the day two men got on a wrong path and
wound up on the girl’s side of camp. They were
quickly made aware of their error by the ladies
and beat a hasty retreat.

There are IO cabins—five arranged in a semi-

circle 300 feet to the north for the women. Ad--

joining each group of cabins are the lavatories and

are the mess hall, recreation hall, and playfield.
Off to one side is a two—car garage, and next to it,

1
J

the showers. In the area between the cabin groups.

a sixty-foot high water tower which stands like aj

huge sentinel guarding the camp. All locations ar\
connected to each other by straight pebbled paths'i‘k
You can‘feel at once, through the soles of your
shoes, when you get off the path.

Ten o’clock—time for activities to begin. No
one has to follow any formal program. Campers
are urged to take part in activities new to them.

\
RECREATION

All activities are led by counselors, and the quality
of leadership makes the counselors one with the
campers. We are all adults.

Camp Lighthouse is a pretty sight as the ten

o’clock whistle blows. There is. a general exodus
i from the cabins and the guide paths become alive

with the moving colors of bathing suits, robes,
slacks, towels, and sweaters. At the entrance to
the boardwalk which leads to the bay, the head
swimming counselor turns up his large red and
white signal flag to signify that the beach is open.
That’s where most of us are headed—for swim-
ming, fishing, crabbing or boating.

On the playfield counselors organize a baseball
game. We use a soccer ball. Play is not expert
but the fun is all there. Some of the batters can
really hit that ball. To one side six campers are
bowling. A counselor sets the pin, calls direction,
and indicates the pin’s standing after the first ball
is thrown. Four campers are pitching horseshoes,
direction being indicated by tapping the stake. A
small group of men and women have formed a
circle and a large medicine ball is passed around;
at first slowly, then faster and faster. Now two
balls, then three are going around. All the swings
are in motion. Near the garage, some campers are
shooting a basketball at a hoop with a sound
buzzer. Further away, archers are aiming at a
large target fitted with a sound device.

Nine campers assemble in front of the recrea~
tion hall. They seem unusually well clothed for
this-warm day. They are blueberry hikers. To—
morrow they will get two envied portions of blue—
berry pie for dessert.

A few more resolute campers, all of them
women, are in the recreation hall where the dance
counselor conducts her daily exercise class. Here
you stretch muscles you never knew were part of
you. ‘

So, soon after 10 A.M., every camper is busy
and active. At II :30 we all wind up at the beach,
400 yards due east of camp and reached by a four-
foot wide, railed boardwalk that takes you straight
as an arrow across the salt water marshes which
border the camp on the bay side. The sun is
strong on your face as you go out. It warms your

‘ neck and shoulders as you come in.

Half-way to the beach, the boardwalk widens

’ to a width of IO feet right over a little lake. This

l is the lagoon, domain of the sun bathers. For some
unknown reason (we never bothered to inquire!)
the lagoon was singularly free from insect pests.

There is real fun on the beach. Barnegat Bay
water is warm, no chill even when you first plunge
in. About 30 feet offshore, the bottom is firm with

MARCH 1947

smooth, hard-packed sand, and only four feet deep.
For the next 300 feet the water depth increases
perceptibly to five feet, making a large safe swim-
ming area. Mornings the bay is calm, ideal for
learning to swim and row. Afternoons, a brisk
wind ruffles the water with white-capped rollers——
wonderful for bouncing around in the water or
in a boat.

It is grand fun to ride the waves, to sit in the
prow of a boat, feet dangling in the water. The
waves smack into the boat making it go up and
down; the cold spray makes you shiver, then you
feel the sun. The warm Wind dries you in a minute.

In a corner of the roped-in swimming area, a
camper ducks herself continually. She looks queer,
but we know she is the clamming champion of the
camp. She digs in the sand with her toes feeling
for the hard shells. Under she goes, up she comes
——with another clam. She can fill a pail in an
hour. Her clams make many of our stews and
chowders. Personally, she prefers her clams raw. ’
Standing there in the water, she cracks one shell
against another, swishes the open one through the
salt water, then-—one gulp. Delicious!

Some campers want to fish all the time. Blow-
fish are the usual catch. They make good eating,
particularly to the fishermen that catch them.

It’s almost twelve o’clock and we must start
back for a personal cleanup before lunch, the most
important event of the day!

Afternoon

After lunch comes the hour of quiet and relaxa-
tion, perhaps for letter writing or reading.

This is a good time to mention sick call. Our
one-room clinic is manned by three first aiders,
the camp director, a male counselor, and a female
counselor. There are quite a few patients. Cuts,
bruises, splinters, sunburns, headaches are the
daily casualties. The campers wince and grimace
but take their medicine gaily, in keeping with basic
camp spirit. .

Camp Lighthouse is quiet now, some campers
have fallen asleep. You can hear them. Snoring
is a problem but a little research reveals that
snorers usually do not bother one another, and
there are some who can sleep under any circum-
stances. Cabin changes are easily arranged.

Suddenly the three o’clock activities whistle
blows. The lifeguard raises the beach flag. The
camp wakens slowly, there is movement, the paths

again become colorful.
Special afternoon activities are added to those of

the morning program. A group is going on a mail

633

hike to the local post ofhce, a two-mile leisurely
walk with a refreshing stopover at the local inn.
A few ambitious campers are on their way to
Barnegat, five miles away, for shopping and re-
freshments. Another group is off for more berry
picking, vowing to come back with more than five
quartswthe camp record.

Evening

Supper is at 6:30, and again a happy crowd is
in the mess hall. You just couldn’t be moody or
grouchy in the mess hall, proof positive that “grub”
is the most important item in camp. We linger
over another cup of coffee and cigarettes.

Most of us smoke. We have to be careful about
smoking because thick dry woods surround the
camp. We prefer precaution to prohibition. Every
smoker is taught to break a match in half before
throwing it away, and to “G.I.” a lighted cigarette
by breaking open the paper packet, scattering the
tobacco. The finding of even one cigarette butt is
reason enough for serious reprimand to the camp—
ers'. We are all exceedingly conscientious about
this privilege of smoking.

After supper there is a brief free period. \Ve

l

go to our cabins for a bit of tidying before the'
evening program. Some go for a short walk, a

few pitch horseshoes. (But the mosquitoes are-
pretty bad at twilight.) Leisurely we congregate '
in the recreation hall.

The formal evening program has not yet begun. 
In one comer campers are grouped around the'.f
record player. Three fellows and two girls are 1:
playing cards. A bunco game is in progress. The:
women outnumber the men six to one. Four men-
are playing dominoes. At the other end of the:
50-foot room a camper accompanies a quartet on:
the piano. On the other side, eight campers are ‘
bowling on the indoor two-way bowling alley.
On the screened porch, campers are seated around
a counselor who is reading the daily paper to them.
The canteen, run by one of the campers, is doing
a brisk business in candy, cigarettes, soft drinks, ,-
post cards and stamps.

Finally everyone is accounted for, and the eve- 
ning program begins. Tonight is to be a quiet
program. . '

Eleven thirty and time to turn in. How quickly
silence spreads over the camp. It’s a happy, peace-
ful quiet. A bugle blows taps. Day is done.

 

Great Gift in a Small Package

HE TOWN of Washington, Connecticut, has a population of only 2,089,* but its size hasn’t kept it from I
going ahead in a big recreation way. Here’s the story—and a fine example it is of a town ,that'
believes in following the often neglected advice about hanging together.

The initiative came from the Lions Club. Late in the fall of 1945 that group met far into the‘
night discussing the community’s need for recreation. Washington’s high school principal, having in.
1944 conducted a summer recreation program in a nearby town, saw the possibility of combining com- '
munity recreation and a physical education program for the high school and elementary school and thus '
killing two birds with a single recreation worker. He put his vision in the form of a motion. The Lions '
Club were “all in favor” and backed up their enthusiastic ayes with a contribution of $1,000 in cold cash.
Their money was to be used for the recreation share of a leader’s salary with the understanding that the
school board would find additional funds to carry the salary for the school part of the program.

This was the beginning. It was followed up by a lively campaign of telling the story to the rest
of the town, finding the proper leader, and delivering the promised goods in the summer and fall of 1946.

The plan was for the leader to put his main emphasis on the community program during the
summer months (from the middle of June through August) and in midwinter (December through March).
In the fall and spring he was to devote most of his time to school football and baseball.

Following the lead of the Lions Club, other community organizations contributed sums to be used

for purchasing equipment. The town’s board of finance helped finance the swimming program.
:1

So, with many groups cooperating, Washington accomplished its first year’s recreation program.\,j
The seed was well sown and the play crop flourished mightily—so mightily, indeed, that beginning on ’
July I, 1947, the town will assume financial responsibility for the program as a whole leaving the Lions
Club free to help with incidentals as they—and the community—see the need.

 

*1940 census figures.

634 RECREATION 

Honorary

Order of Merit

 

4"

Vice-President. National ‘
Recreation Association

Honored in New Year's List

 

 

JOHN G. WINANT

\

THE HONoRARY ORDER OF MERIT, one of Great Britain’s highest honors, was conferred on John
Gilbert Winant, the United States wartime Ambassador in London, in the New Year’s honors list,
posted on December 31, 1946. The only person to receive this award last year was former Prime

Minister Winston Churchill, and the only other person to receive the award this year was Field Marshal

Jan Christian Smuts, Prime Minister of South Africa. Several persons have reported the universal high

l esteem in which Mr. Winant is held among all groups in Great Britain because of the value of his war-

1

I time services.
E,
I Mr. Winant has been serving as the United States delegate to the United Nations Economic and

Social Council. On January 10, 1947, Mr. Winant gave up this position to “pick up life again as a private

 

”

f citizen in my own country. Before his resignation was announced publicly Mr. Winant stated that he

wanted, among other things, to give more time to the work of the National Recreation Association.

While Governor of New Hampshire Mr. Winant helped bring about a very considerable develop-
ment in recreation in the counties of New Hampshire. He has also aided in the National Recreation

Congress gatherings and has shared in the planning of the work of the National Recreation Association.

MARCH 1947 635

Ogden Balances the Program

a WAY OF RICH and joyful

living”—this is the essence

'of the broad and varied
recreation program at Ogden,
Utah, currently recognized as an outstanding com-
munity accomplishment.

In Ogden, recreation is not just a program of
athletics or sports. The sports program is impor-
tant and is a part of the whole, but there is danger
that it may dominate. If recreation is to be true
to its name, then there must also be in the pro-
gram a place for recreative arts. Recreation in
the community, based on human interest, then be-
comes a force for educational growth, for health,
delinquency prevention and for wholesome com—
munity morale. ( 

Under proper leadership the individual enlarges
his experience ;. becomes more creative; enjoys the
“thrill of a skill”; knows cultural growth; develops
the spirit of friendship, comradeship and under—
standing (which is needed so much in the world
today); feels the security of belonging, of being
needed and appreciated in the community. With
this philosophy in mind, the City of Ogden, Utah,
enjoys a rich, well—balanced program that has
evolved from a very humble beginning.

History

Settled by the Mormon pioneers, Ogden, as
other cities of Utah, is rich in a recreation and
cultural background. Community recreation spon—
sored by the Mormon Church gave a lift to the
rugged life of the pioneers. Community drama,
folk dancing, community socials, and home recrea—
tion were fostered. Recreation today can preserve
the rich’ heritage that was left by the early pioneers.
The pioneer was forced to create his own enter-
tainment. He was active, and for recreation cul-
tivated his ability in his own expression. Today
we are prone to inactivity. We expect to be enter-
tained. We need to learn how to use our hands,
to create and express ourselves through some
activity.

The first recreation program in Ogden City was
set up in 1929. It consisted of ohe play center with
two leaders, a man and a woman. The Ogden City
Civic League persuaded the City Commission to
appropriate $1,500 for a three months’ program

636

By ELLIS S. McALLISTER
Recreation Director

Ogden. Utah

during the summer season. After
the first year of supervised rec-
reation at one center, the pro-

gram was well accepted and was ‘
extended to two other parks for two afternoons a
week.

The city budget was held at $1,500 for three!
years. In 1932 it was raised to $2,000. In those .
early years the recreation director paid out of her '
own meager allowance the fee to the National
Recreation Association for the bulletin service and l
RECREATION magazine because the city fathers felt
this an unnecessary expense. I

In 1932 a step forward was made when the
banks of the city and business houses raised money '
to bring staff members from the National Recrea-
tion Association to conduct a recreation institute'
at the \Neber College, a state junior college. This
institute was a great stimulus for the program and
more than 50 people attended the seven-day course.
Leaders came from communities throughout the
northern part of the state. .Through the support
of business houses and the community, funds were I
also raised to send the director to the International I
Recreation Congress at Los Angeles. 

In the early thirties and during the depression:
years the program responded to a greater ,chal-'
lenge. As many adults (especially women) asl
children participated in the program. The budgetl
reached the $3,000 figure. In 1936 it jumped to '
$3,601.73. Much credit is due the early recreation l
leaders who worked long hours and volunteered
their services. Today in speaking to these early'
leaders, we find their joy and satisfaction is great
as they now see the results of their efforts crowned
in the activities of noble men and women whose

P lives were guided and “touched” for good when,

as boys and girls, they participated in the pro-
gram. More thanks and appreciation than mere
words can express go to the National Recreation

Association for its services in these pioneering
days. 
In 1940 the city stepped ahead again with its f.
appropriation for recreation. This time the budget.
was $4,240.91. With this budget the major part .
of the program was carried on during the summer i
months. What was done in the winter season was

under volunteer leadership.

RECREATION 

Effect of the War

Then came the war, which had about as great
an effect on the City of Ogden as on any other
city of its size in the United States., Five military
. installations were to be established in the Ogden
area. Thousands of defense workers moved in.
Housing projeCts were established. The little
country town of 35,000 population grew to twice
that size. The physical as well as the social facili-
ties of the city were inadequate for this great influx
of people. '

The Federal Security Agency, with its field
staff giving aid in community services to cities
overbalanced with the great influx of defense
workers, came to the aid of the recreation depart-
ment. The need was paramount for year-round
activities and for increased funds to sustain an
enlarged program. In 1944 with the aid of gov-
ernment funds under the Lanham Act a year-round
program was developed. The city raised its finan-
cial contribution to $10,000 and the federal gov-
ernment added $10, 56124. With the increase in
budget funds there was a new day dawning for
community recreation in Ogden City.

A very successful program was carried out in
1944; In 1945 government funds were increased
and the program was expanded. In addition to the
playground program, special emphasis was given
to sport leagues for the men and women at the
military installations. Recreation leaders were
placed at the housing projects where the need .for
the development of community services was great.

In the early part of 1946 the recreation depart-
ment faced a crisis. Ten thousand dollars had
again been appropriated by the city with the ex-
pectation of government funds to supplement the
budget. In January, when word was received that
government funds were definitely withdrawn, the
recreation department was faced with the problem
of operating a year—round program for a city of
60,000 population on $10,000. With the military
installations still operating, a population increase
over prewar figures of more than 50 percent, and
all departments in the city demanding greater
budgets, the picture was not too bright. N everthe-
less, the program carried on, and with careful-
planning a broader program has been developed
on less funds. The 1946 season has been one of
the most succesSful in the history of Ogden recre-
ation. In August of this year the city commission
“saved the day” by appropriating an additional
14,000 to replace government funds and to as-
‘ume the financial responsibility for the entire year
t a budget figure of $24,000 as compared to
$4,240.91 in 1940 before the war.

  
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
  
  

MARCH 1947

Present Organization ,

An advisory parks and recreation board is set
up by city ordinance. This board is made up of
five ’members—the city commissioner of parks, the
superintendent of schools, and three members at
large. The members are appointed by the commis-
sioner of parks and recreation and approved by
the city commissioners. The recreation depart-
ment and director of recreation are directly re-

sponsible to the commissioner of parks and recre-
ation.

Acting in an advisory capacity, and also giving
community support and. representation, is the city
recreation council which is made up of represen-
tatives from agencies in the community interested
in recreation, such as church groups, schools,
P.T.A., Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, service clubs,
veteran groups and the like. Chairmen of the II
standing committees are members of the executive
board as well as the president, vice-president and
secretary elected by the council.

Youth Council 0

The youth council consists of the director of
recreation, the assistant superintendent of schools,
one boy and one girl and an adult supervisor from
each of the recreation and educational youth serv-
ing institutions of the city. The purpose of the
youth council is to plan and put into action good
projects for the welfare of youth; to assist in plan-
ning and responsibility for the leisure-time pro-
gram in the schools, which are used as neighbor-
hood recreation centers during the winter season;
to foster city-wide social projects that would .cul—
tivate community pride and unity; to assist the
city officials in community improvement. One of
the flI'St projects of the youth council was to draft
the curfew law as a means of opposing midnight
motion picture shows. At the present time the
youth council is sponsoring a survey of the ex-
tracurricular activities in the city high schools. Its
strength is community representation and support.
Its weakness is the political relationship that in-
terferes with long time planning and gives insta-
bility to the department.

Program

The Ogden City recreation program may be

divided into the following divisions: playground

and day camp, athletics and sports, community
and neighborhood centers, community drama,
music and dancing, special events, bulletin serv1ce:

Athletics and sports: The sports division of any
community program as a rule is a popular one.

637'

T h e v a r i o u 5
sports move with
the season of the
year just as the
fa s h i o n s f o r
wearing apparel.
In Ogden early
spring brings
baseball and soft-
ball as well as
golf.

D u r i n g t h e
past season the
softball program
consisted of seven
leagues with 52
teams including
the junior and.
midget leagues
on the play areas.
Approximate at-
tendance and par—
ticipation for the
season was 7, 186.
Several women’s
softball teams
were organized although league play was not set up.

In the baseball program there were two leagues.
The junior baseball league for boys ages 14, 15,
16, and I7, consisted of eight teams sponsored by
industrial groups and military installations. At-
tendance and participation for the season was ap—
proximately 5,181.

Thousands of men and women played golf on
the two courses in the city, at the municipal course
and at the country club, a private course. The con-
trol of the golf program is separate from the rec-
reation department, although the department does
sponsor a junior open golf tournament.

The tennis program is directed by a tennis
supervisor employed by the recreation department.
Local sporting goods houses sponsor tournaments.
City tournaments and invitation meets are held.
Participants come from the major communities of
the state. Total attendance in the tennis program
for the past season was approximately 12,000.

In Ogden the season for out-of—door swimming
is short. The municipal pool opens in June and
closes on Labor Day. The past season, state in-
vitation and city meets were held. The morning
hours are given over to free swimming with paid
admissions in the afternoons. Total paid attend—
ance for the past season was 45,491. \Vinter swim—

638

,.
x.
In?”

 

3.; ,-' '2". can-3: , ,.
. . ‘ ' ' - .__ .. .- ~ - ,.
a . «aw-15m 6‘“ e-W‘rme 9f?“ i r ‘ ~

.. "M ~ g... _.... W46

I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!

ming is carried on at the \Veber College by a joint
arrangement between city and school.

In the fall touch football is the popular sport.
Organized team play is conducted in the neighbor-
hood centers.

Following the football season perhaps the most
popular sport for junior age boys is the junior bas-
ketball league, named by the boys “The Dirty Sox
League.” In 1945-46 the league drew boys from
seven centers including the State Industrial School.
Forty-seven teams participated each Saturday
afternoon in scheduled games at five school gyms.
There were four divisions in the league as fol-
lows: Class “A” 10th grade, Class “B” 9th grade,
Class “C” 8th grade, and Class “D” 7th grade.
The league played 11 rounds and the two teams
with the highest standing at the close of the sched-
uled games played a two-out—of—three-game play
off. Championship teams in each division were.
awarded a trophy. Approximately 500 boys en—
joyed basketball league play each Saturday after-
noon.

Competitive basketball for girls was organized Ii
on a small scale. Most of their play was within the
neighborhood centers. 0 a

In adult basketball three leagues were organized
-—military, civilian and women’s. There were 22

RECREATION

teams in these leagues. These adult leagues are
having a great increase this year with the return of
veterans.

Bowling is a popular activity with teen-age boys
and girls on Saturday afternoons during Novem-
ber and December before the basketball season
moves in. Tournament play is conducted, with
champions selected in four divisions.

In addition to indoor sports'during the winter,
Ogden is a “winter wonderland” for the ski en-
thusiast. Snow Basin, with a mechanical lift a
mile long, is gaining recognition as one of the best
ski areas in the nation. Last year special buses
took boys and girls, men and women into Snow
Basin on week ends._ The parks and recreation
department is working to develop this part of the
winter program on a larger scale. During the year
1947, which is the centennial year for Utah, na-
tional ski events will be held at Snow Basin. Many
natural areas in the city also lent themselves to
coasting and skating for young and old during the
winter season.

Playgrounds: In Ogden I4 playgrounds were in
operation for the 1946 season. New play facilities
such as box hockey frames, tether ball stands, vol-
ley ball stands, and horseshoe boxes helped in the
success of the program. The basic program con-
sisted of handcraft, folk dancing, storytelling,
drama, and tournaments. In addition there were
music activities, equipment games, low organized
- games, quiet games, team games, and apparatus
play. Special events were held each week, such as
pet shows, the pioneer parade, fish scramble, doll
show, and the like. The playground season was
climaxed with an all-city festival with each area
contributing an act. The theme of the festival was
“On \Nings to Fairyland.”

Under the direction of their leaders, the chil-
dren dramatized the fairy tales they had listened
to during the summer season. Parents, children
and leaders cooperated in making costumes. For
the animals, net wire and papier-maché were used
to make masks which fit over the heads of the
children. These animal heads were very realistic
in appearance, and provided a great deal of crea-
tive work for both children and adults.

Average weekly attendance on the 14 areas with
supervised play was 17,837. Total attendance for
the 1946 season was 160,553 which was an in-
crease of 65 per cent over 1945. The handcraft
program on the play areas was climaxed with a
city-wide handCraft exhibit. Evening movies and

neighborhood family nights were held on the play
areas.

MARCH 1947

Day Camp: Day camp was operated three days
a week. Children from the various districts of the
city alternated in having special days at camp.
The program consisted of nature study, hiking,
nature craft and swimming. A fur trapper theme
was carried on at the camp. Ogden was named
after the famous fur trapper, Peter Skeen Ogden.
Here in the camp names once familiar when this
section of the country was a rendezvous for fur
trappers lived again. After the children arrived at
camp they were divided into groups and assigned
to camp sites named after the fur bearing animals
familiar to this section. When the boys and girls
ventured forth on their nature hike they ‘were out
for their “catch.” Approximately 1,000 children
participated in the day camp during the season.

Neighborhood Centers: During the winter sea-
son of 1945-46, seven neighborhood centers were
sponsored by the recreation department and the
city schools. The program consisted of dancing,
touch football, basketball, volley ball, drama, box-
ing, badminton, table tennis, wrestling, swimming,
bowling, special parties, craft work, table games,
singing games, and tumbling. Perhaps the most
popular event of the neighborhood center was the
junior basketball league in which more than 500
boys played in league basketball games each Sat-
urday afternoon.

The spirit of cooperation is growing between the
schools and the recreation department. The facili-
ties of the schools are ideal for after school super-
vised recreation. In most cases teachers are paid
by the recreation department to work: with the
young people. The board of education and super-
intendent of schools give the use of the school
buildings free except for the expense of custodial
service. In future planning, it is the aim of the
recreation department to set up a program for
adults in school centers as well as for the young
people. Already adult classes in square dancing
and handcraft are in operation.

Community Drama: The drama fills a great need
in community recreation. Every community rec-
reation program, to be well balanced and complete,
should give an opportunity for dramatic expres—
sion. The Ogden City Recreation Department
with the W eber College forms a joint sponsorship
for the Ogden City Community Theater. The sole
purpose of the community theater is to provide a
medium for dramatic expression on a city-wide
basis.

The community theater is under the direction of

a board of directors elected by the people of the
community. The professor of dramatics at the

639

\Yeber College acts as supervising director and the
difcctprzof recreation acts as business manager.

:Last year, the theater presented the following
productions: Berkeley Square, by John L. Bal-
derston; an opera, The Vagabond King, by'Ru-
° dolph ,Friml; one-act play festival ;_ and Young in
Heart,;by I. A. R. Wylie.

The highlight of the season is the one-act festi—
val. Groups from all over the city are encouraged
to sponsor a play and enter the festival. Last year
14 plays were presented representing schools,
churches, neighborhood centers, and housing proj-
ects. :An original play, Fire in the Night, by Carol
Jean V endell, an Ogden High School student, was
outstanding. The play was staged, costumed and
directed by students.

In June the Ogden Community Theater entered
this play in'the National One-Act Play Tourna-
ment 'sponsored by the Little Theatre Guide in
Chicago. Only 12 plays were accepted in the na-
tional tournament. Trophies were awarded for
production, originality, voice and diction, and in-
dividual performance for men and women. Fire in
the Night was awarded first place for originality
and second place for voice and diction. The Ogden
Exchange Club cooperated with the community
theater in a ticket drive for a benefit performance
of the play to raise funds to send the cast to Chi-
cago. In this way the project was completed and
the entire community helped in its success.

Already this year community theater members
are talking about plans for a state one—act play fes-
tival and a drama clinic for community theater
groups. Ogden Community Theater, in its 1946-47
season, will present the following productions:
’State of the Union, November 14, 15, 16; Desert
"Song, (opera) March 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10; neighbor-
hood one-act play festival the. week of March 24;
My Sister Eileen, May I, 2, 3. '

Music Program: Students from the city schools
as well as some adults from the community have
been assembled together under a music director
employed by the recreation department. An all-
school city recreation band of 65 members has been
formed. During the summer season outdoor band
concerts were presented in the public parks. Ap-
proximately 16,000 people were in attendance at
the events. The band plans for concerts during the

Winter season, and it will assist on special occa-
sions.

'-Dancing: Folk dancing was taught and encour-
aged on the playgrounds. A dance specialist
moved from one play area to the next assisting
with the dancing. Two days a week at special
centers instruction was given in tap and ballet

on;

dancing. Thousands of children participated in
and enjoyed the various types of dancing.

In the evening one night a week on the tennis
courts under the lights there was old—time square
and round dancing for adults. The western pioneer
dances are coming back and gaining in popularity.
It was “dos-a-dos on the corners and swing your
partners all,” as thousands of adults joined in the
dance. As Utah nears its centennial year in 1947,
pioneer dancing will take the- lead all over the
state.

Special Events: In, Ogden, special events have

proved very successful. There are a few that have.

almost become traditional.

In the spring the city-wide marble and hop-
scotch tournaments are popular. Last year more

than 3,000 boys and girls participated in these-
events. There were four age divisions with chamg

pions determined in each. The tournaments were
carried on at the 14 elementary schools. School
winners were presented championship certificates
and city winners were presented trOphies spon-
sored by the retail merchants committee of the
Ogden Chamber of Commerce.

The children’s pioneer parade the week of the
24th of July is another outstanding event. The
parade is in honor of the Utah pioneers who came
into the Salt Lake valley on July 24, 1847. The
1946 pioneer parade was outstanding. Approxi—
mately 3,000 children participated. There were
11 divisions as follows: Indians, fur trappers and
explorers, covered wagons, handcart companies,
first year in Salt Lake valley, pioneer homes,
colonization, pioneer recreation, decorated vehicles,
cowboys and cowgirls, and miscellaneous. First,

second and third place awards were given for.

floats in each division, as well as to .the outstanding
boy and girl in each division.

Other popular events were the city-wide play

festival, Halloween socials and community Christ- 

mas program.

General Recreation Service: There is a growing
demand from the public for recreation service. In

Ogden, many groups call on the recreation depart-

ment for equipment.
Community recreation has had a wholesome
growth in Ogden. Along with other communities

of its size it is having growing pains. The present 1

0

demand for recreation and program expansion 
I o o o I r
causmg City and school offic1als.to Investigate new

resources for funds to: meet the situation.
creased cooperation of all agencies interested in
educational and cultural growth can meet the new
challenge for leisure time guidance.

RECREATION

In- 1

Sports
in
America *

PORTS HAVE a significant place in the recrea-
S tional life of Americans. In the number of
participants and spectators, they are the out-
standing form of outdoor leisure time activity.
Sports in one form or another appeal to old and
young, men and women, residents of city and rural
areas. Millions of Americans enjoy taking part in
some type of sport, watching others play, or both.
Sports have come to {be recognized as a traditional
phase of American life. They rank with music,
drama, arts and crafts, nature, social recreation,
and dancing as a major field of recreation interest.
Yet, the widespread popularity of sports is a
comparatively recent phenomenon, stemming in
large measure from the time of the first World
War. The causes of the marked awakening of pub-
lic interest in sports during the past three decades
are many, but a few are of special significance.
The increased amount of leisure time resulting
from shortened hours of employment enabled peo-
ple to get out—of-doors more, especially over the
week end, and has afforded time for engaging in
sports. The widespread provision of physical edu-
cation and sports programs in schools and colleges
has given millions of children and youth training
in sports skills and a taste of the enjoyment re-
sulting from taking part in sports after leaving
school. The acquisition of large recreation areas
by local, state, and federal authorities and the de-
velopment of those areas for various sports have
made it possible for people with modest incomes
to take part in activities that were formerly avail-
able only for the well-to-do. The usefulness of
these recreation areas has been enhanced by the
provision of leadership for the organization of
sports programs and for guidance in the use of
sports facilities.

Commercial organizations have played a large
part in the arousing of public interest in certain
forms of sport. Equipment and clothing manu-
facturers, owners of private sports facilities and

 

'Excerpts from a book on recreational sports now in preparation
by George D. Butler.

MARCH 1947

 

.    F5  
\ 4Courtesy BellandHo

 

kr‘ .:

well C onipan y

centers, retail stores, transportation companies and
hotel owners have all realized the profit to be
gained by promoting sports for the people. Vari-
ous estimates of the amount annually spent for
sports run as high as four billions of dollars and
much of this expenditure is due to the effort of
commercial interests to capitalize on the appeal of
sports for increasing numbers of people.

Recent Trends

Many changes and trends have taken place in
recent years in the field of sports. The followmg
are of special importance to community sports

programs:

Increasing emphasis upon sports for all the people
rather than upon the development of a few champions.
_ More opportunities for training in sports skills,
resulting in greater joy and satisfaction in participa-
tion.

Promotion of sports which both men and women
can engage in together, thus meeting the growmg
demand for co-recreation activities.

641

  

Relatively increased emphasis upon sports in which
persons can engage over a long period of years, as
compared with highly competitive strenuous activities.

Rapid expansion in out-of—door winter sports
programs.

Promotion of sports on a year round basis rather
than for limited seasons.

Extension of Opportunities for workers to engage in
or watch sports events by the installation of lights at
sports areas.

Utilization of limited recreation space by the de-

velopment of adaptations of games, such as softball,
paddle tennis and goal-hi.

Planning of spaces for multiple uses, such as paved
areas which serve at different times for roller skating,
ice skating, tennis, volley ball and other court games.

More widespread participation of women and girls
in sports.

Enrichment and enlargement of the literature on
games and sports.

 

Development of a more intelligent and sportsman— ' ' s .
like spectator population as a result of wider partici- '
pation in properly directed sports.

 

“

Courtesy Oakland Post Inquirer

Utilization of sports activities as a feature of social
recreation programs rather than stress upon competi-

tion or Winning- 011 the whole, these activities are essentially
More careful classification of players in order to “recreational” Sport5_ Several do not involve
assure fa‘r’ keen and SanSfaCtory Compet‘t‘on' strenuous activity and therefore appeal to young
Development and w‘despread acceptance Of a plat” and old alike, are especially suitable for co—recrea-

form designed to protect the interests of women and
girls engaging in sports competition. '

A number of these trends are indicated in the

following list of what one observer reported to be
“the ten fastest-growing sports in the summer

tion programs, and can be enjoyed over'a period
of years. Most of them are essentially participant
sports. With the exceptions of softball and basket-
ball, they are primarily individual rather than
team sports. Some can be enjoyed by an individual

of 1940.” , _
.. ,_ _ Without an opponent or a companion. Most of
Skiing lugure ska-tingr th n t. n r _ td . t. .t.
Fishing Bicycling em are essen 1a } ou 001 ac 1v1 ies.
Bowling Basketball S P f
Softball Tabletcmis ports re erences
Badminton Paddle tennis Studies of the recreation interests of individuals

have revealed the
important place
attached to sports
as a form of lei-
sure time activity.
Swimming re—
peatedly heads the
preference list of
children, young
people, and adults.
In a study of the
leisure hours of
5,000 adults living 
in 29 states, con—\l

It

ducted by the Na- “5
tional Recreation
Association, the
five most desired

 

Conrtrsy Chester, Pennsylvania, Recreation Board aCtIVItleS 1n the

642 h ' RECREATION \

order named were tennis, swimming, boating, golf
and camping. Ice skating was tenth on the list,
followed by hiking, with fishing and picnicking not
far behind. In a study of the preferences of park
users, carried on by the National Park Service,
swimming ranked first among the park activities
desired, with fishing and boating following in
order named. A ballot of Rotarians in a southern
city revealed that the five most common hobbies in
which they took part as participants were in the
field of sports, whereas three of the five most popu—
lar spectator hobbies involved athletic events.

In spite, however, of the growing numbers of
people who engage in sports and the high place
which sports hold among the leisure time desires
of people, a large percentage of the adult popula-
tion rarely, if ever, participates in——-or even watches
-——activities of this type. The only form of sport
in which as many as half of the 5,000 adults
studied by the National Recreation -Association
took part was swimming, and the only others in
which a third ever engaged were picnicking, hiking
and tennis. Swimming was the only sport in which
as many as a fifth took part frequently. No form
of sport was included in the 10 highest leisure time
activities, ranked according to hours spent per
week on each, of 782 men and women who cooper-
ated in a study in a northern industrial city.

Desires vs. Opportunities

Studies have repeatedly revealed a wide diver-
sity between desire to engage in sports and par-
ticipation in them. This is particularly true of
activities which require large areas, long periods
of time, special facilities and equipment, or a con-
siderable degree of skill. Many sports activities,
because of the areas, facilities or leadership re—
quired, can be made available to large numbers of
people only as they are provided by governmental

agencies ; others will gain participants only as they
are made easily accessible, require little time, in-
volve little or no cost to the individual or may be
enjoyed by persons with varying degrees of skill.

The popularity of sports and the differences
between participation and desires are illustrated by
a study in which 17,000 young people of junior
and senior high school age in Los Angeles took
part. Sports held an overwhelming place among
the activities engaged in and preferred. Seventeen
out of 23 leading boys activities were of this type,
and 12 out of the 20 leading girls activities. Team
sports headed the list of activities in which most
young people took part, but other types were de—
sired by the largest number. For example, sports
desired by the boys in rank order were swimming,
archery, boxing, tennis and wrestling; by the girls,
swimming, tennis, archery, hockey, and paddle
tennis.

Toward the Future

Studies of Sports interests and recent develop—
ments and trends afford much evidence that the
major increase in participation in sports in the
years ahead will probably be found primarily in the
less highly organized individual or group sports
which appeal to both sexes and to a wide age span.

The public recreation department is unique
among the agencies promoting or conducting
sports. It serves all the people in the community,
young and old, male and female, regardless of
skill, nationality, or any other factor. Its sports
program is based upon the recreation interests of
the people, includes indoor and outdoor activities,
and is carried on throughout the year. In, its
hands, in a very real sense, lies the opportunity
to insure to every member of the community the
means of participating in a varied sports program
and the leadership which such a program demands.

 

MARCH 1947

Let's Look at the Records-

EMEMBER that pile of dusty
R old phonograph records
that you almost fell over
last time you were in the attic? Probably they
belonged to Mother before she and Dad were mar—
ried, or maybe they represent what’s left of Dad’s
record library after four years in a college dormi-
tory. Whatever they may be, chances are that these
discarded and half forgotten discs may be a source
of much pleasure and possibly considerable profit
for you.

These old platters should be real hidden treas-
ure. You collectors will jump for joy, especially if
you find included some of the old-timers now en-

joying a revival of popularity, such as I’ll Get By,
It Had to Be You, or As Time Goes By.

Don’t count on it, but old records may even be
a source of real money. Certain recordings are in
great demand by big time collectors, who have
been known to offer as much as several hundred
dollars for a single record played by the Original
Dixieland Band. Paul Whiteman once gave a
listener a fifty—dollar War Bond for the privilege
of borrowng a copy of an out-of-print disc—-—I be-
lieve is was Do Y on Ever Think of M e?———played
by his own orchestra when it was a nine-piece or-
ganization appearing at- the Palais Royale in New
York. This particular record happened to be miss-
ing from the Whiteman files, and Paul needed it
in connection with his radio show.

Surprises—Pleasant and Amusing

So the next time you have a couple of hours to
kill, why not dust off the old records, wind up your
portable (or plug it in if you’re lucky enough to
have that kind) and get set for some pleasant and
amusing surprises.

Your first surprise—and it is a pleasant one—
- will be the discovery that once they have been
cleaned with a dry cloth these old records really
sound fine on the modern machine, much better
and clearer than some of the new ones on sale
today. It is possible that in. some cases you will
get better results with an old—fashioned steel
needle than with a present day so-called long life
.reproducing point.

Don’t expect any vocal refrains by Sinatras,
Staffords or Crosbys. What vocal assistance the

644

By A. E. FRADENBURGH
Brooklyn. New York

orchestra of that day had was
usually pretty sad. It was not until
the appearance of the sensational
George Olsen recording of Who that the public
wanted singing on its dance records. This par-
ticular record, with its now famous chorus by the
George Olsen trio, is credited by musicians with
revolutionizing recording technique for dance
bands. But let’s return to your record pile.

Your pile probably dates back to about the be-
ginning of World War I. Perhaps you will be
lucky enough to discover recordings—these by
competent vocalists—of the hit tune of Irving Ber-
lin’s first Army show, Y ip Y ip Y aphank, a little
ditty titled Oh How I Hate to Get U 1) in the
M arming-“which is not unfamiliar to present day
ears—and a silly sort of thing called Sister S usie’s
Sewing Shirts for Soldiers.

Chances are that a good proportion of your
records will be played by Paul Whiteman and his
orchestra. These are all played in a typical White-
manesque style that is not at all hard to take. In
fact, the only outstanding difference between this
style and some of your modem swing bands is the
predominance of rhythm furnished by Mike Pinga—

tore and his banjo. Mike must have been good.
He is still with the band.

Hits of this Whiteman era included Whispering
and The Japanese Sandman. The former was the
first popular record to feature the slide whistle as
a musical instrument. There is nothing Japanese
about the latter but the title! Then there is I
N ever Knew and Do Y on Ever Think of Me, the
former being one of the best of the seemingly end—
less series of tunes by that name. The latter is a
thoroughly satisfactory number just as danceable
today as it was in 1922. There is a long string of
Whiteman recordings of Irving Berlin tunes from
the annual Music Box Revues, outstanding among
which are Everybody S tep and Say It with nsic.
To mention only a few more, there were Ka-ln-a,
Blne Danube Blues, Bambalina, all leading up to a
grand climax with the Whiteman concert—type
orchestra on the 12—inch recording of When Day
Is Done and Rube Bloom’s Soliloqny.

I suppose there must have been other bands
that made records during that period. Perhaps
your pile would include waxings by Ted Lewis,

RECREATION

ago/fit

Art Hickman, Vincent Lopez and later, of course,
George Olsen with his Who, Good News, Hi
Diddle Diddle, W'here’d You Get Those Eyes,
and so on. There are so many titles that it is
virtually impossible to select the best.

I certainly envy you the thrill of hearing these
records for the first time. It will make you wonder
why more of the old tunes are not revived for
radio and movie use. There may be some of your
treasure discs that you will be tempted to throw
away, especially if they seem from the label to be
slightly on the long hair side. But please, for your
own sake, don’t destroy them without playing
them through at least once. And let it be hoped,
again for that same own sake, that at least one of
the collection bears the by—line of W. S. Gilbert
and Sir Arthur Sullivan. '

People's
Report

"By its very natureI recreation is funda-
mentally a responsibility of the city. the
town. the village. It stems from the grass
roots of day-to-day community living."

LITTLE OVER a year ago-—in January, 1946—
a group of trained men and women in

Olympia, Washington, working under the
banner of the Washington Secretary of State, em-
barked upon a survey of the recreational and cul-
tural resources of the state. The survey had been
ordered by the state legislature. It was financed
by state funds. Its final purpose was “to make
recommendations to the state legislature for state-
wide planning and coordination in the recreational
and cultural field, based on a sound analysis of
the needs and desires of the communities and rural
areas of the state. r‘In December, as 1946 drew to
its close, the surveyors made their report.

It is, they say, a people’s report, for “We walked
with the people. We talked with them face to face,
listened to them, counseled with them.” The re-

MARCH 1947

port, published in December, .is a digest of all the
data collected in the year. It is the cooperative
work of the members of the survey and civic
groups in 39 communities in the state. Each com-
munity helped gather the pertinent facts about
“indoor and outdoor recreation facilties, youth and
adult organizations, recreational and cultural
groups, commercial recreation and many other
items.” And each community weighed and as-
sessed its own recreation program. The sum total
of all the information, of all these analyses, of con-
ferences and community meetings in all parts of
the state is a clear picture of recreation as it is in
Washington, a picture of what the pe0ple want it
to be, a basis for recommendations for future
changes and improvements.

It is not, obviously, possible to reproduce all 28
magazine size pages of the report in RECREATION.
What follows is a sampling, a few of the many
quotations that have significance as thought—pro-

' vokers for all recreation—minded pe0ple.

The Family and Youth

“The Survey found that the family as a unit has
been largely ignored in community recreation plan-
ning. Activities for varying age groups are treated

as unrelated problems, and are organized in such

a way that they tend to separate family members
instead of bringing them together. Yet, many
community leaders are becoming more and more
aware of the necessity of encouraging families to
learn to play together and thus, in their leisure
time, strengthen family relationships.

“Survey polls indicate that families do enjoy
doing things together. One—half the families go on
trips together, or to the beach. Seven out of ten
go to movies together. At home one-third play
games or"sing together.

“In concentrating on youth recreation, commu—
nities have attacked only the most apparent prob-
lem. Although much remains to be done, individual
successes clearly show that recreation can be a
vital part of a youth protection program.

“Yet community leaders have pointed out that
youth-centered recreation has certain basic inade—
quacies in that it is not always part of, and inte-
grated into, the broader community program.
Consequently, youth are led to feel they are an

isolated section of community life.
“To make its full contribution to family and

youth, community recreation sights must be raised
to a broader program, built for all ages, and de-
signed to encourage family participations.”

645

N ot-so-Good !

“. . . Many less desirable forms of leisure-time
activity have increased rapidly.

“For example, expenditures in \Vashington for
hard liquor alone during the hscal year 1944—45
amounted to approximately thirty dollars per
capita. By National Recreation Association stand-
ards, yearly maintenance of full public recreation
programs in every city, town and rural area would
cost communities about three dollars per capita.

“Slot machines, legalized gambling devices and
illegal gambling claim additional tens of millions
of dollars yearly. Yet public expenditures for rec—
reation in Washington are far below the three
dollar per capita standard.”

Centers and Schools

“In recreation, this is exemplified by the grow-
ing Community Center movement throughout the
United States and Canada. Most War Memorial
plans embody the idea of a center for community
recreational and cultural activities. To many peo—
ple it is this concept that offers most hope for the
rebirth of vital community relationships.

“Survey public opinion polls reveal that adults
as well as youth are eager to participate in a wide
variety of creative group activities. It is a hope
for communities and a challenge to the people of
the State to provide for the recreational needs of
the present and to plan intelligently for the in-
creasing demands of the future.

“Consolidation of schools, whereby one central
school building serves large rural areas, has worked
to the detriment of rural social and recreational
life. Loss of the small community school has de-
prived many people of their recreation centers
and community-minded teachers.”

Delinquency

“Experience of Washington communities shows
a close relationship between well-planned recrea-
tion and youth guidance programs, and delin-
quency control. In Vancouver, which has broad,
year-round recreational activities, probation au-
thorities report that in 1945 the incidence of de-
linquency was held almost to pre-war level. Kirk—
land, Cheney, Ephrata, and Everett are a few of
the cities whose youth programs have had at least
partial success.

“Successful delinquency prevention programs

646

throughout the United States invariably were
found to include planned recreation a'sna major
factor in channelling the energy of youths into
socially constructive activities.”

Satisfied?

“First of all, the Survey found that people feel
a deep sense of inadequacy toward their. recrea-
tional opportunities. In its sampling of adult
Opinion in 38 areas, the Survey asked this question:

‘Are there enough good recreational activities
in your community?’

“Only 8 percent answered a definite ‘Yes’;
42 percent said ‘Fair,’ but saw room for im-
provement; and 43 percent said, ‘No, they are
not good enough.’ Half of those interviewed said
they felt they must leave their communities ‘for a
large share of their recreation.”

Improvements

In 38 communities ranging in population from
I 50,000 to a few hundred, 3,806 adults were ques-
tioned about what things recreational they wanted.
Here is what they said:

“45% said ‘A Community Center is our great-
est need for family recreation.’

(This led all other choices two—to—one.)

“43% said ‘More trained recreation leadership
is our greatest need to develop a youth program!’

(23% said trained leaders were first for
adult programs.)

“36% said ‘Arts and Crafts and Community
Musical Groups are what we want most for a cul-
tural program !’

(Civic dramatic presentations were third
choice here.)”

Five thousand six hundred and sixty-six stu-
dents in 31 communities asked the same question,
answered as follows:

“60% said ‘We want to go to a summer camp 1’

(Only one in five now participates.)

“37% said ‘A swimming pool is the first thing
we need at our playground!’

“40% said ‘Our town needs a teen-age dancing
program!’ n

(This question was asked'of high school
students only.)”

What Recreation Tries to Prevent

I’m an old, old man; I have been an old, old
man all me life—From A Frank Swinnerton
Character.

RECREATION

2:3”;

\'

- Letter from England

The National Playing Fields Association
71 Eccleston Square, London, S.VV. 1,
14th November 1946

HowARD BRAUCHER, ESQ.
National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue

New York 10, New York

Dear President Brauclzer,

On behalf of the National Playing Fields Asso—
ciation I send to' you and to your colleagues and
members of the Recreation Association of America
most cordial greetings.

We over here are keenly interested in the multi-
farious activities of your Association, so much
wider than our own and worked out on so much
larger a canvas. We are equally appreciative of
your generous response to our inquiries regarding
Play Leadership. The information proved most
timely and helpful.

The problems and possibilities confronting our
respective Associations in this post-war period are
fundamentally similar, though their incidence and
the inethods by which we face up to them are
necessarily different. Nevertheless, we can help
each other by sharing news and views periodically,
as you suggest, and, for our part, we regard it as
a pleasure to do so.

To appreciate what we are attempting - and
achieving it is necessary to understand first our
background of development and the impact of the
war. In this connection it is interesting to record
that on the 9th of july thisiyear we entered our
twenty-second year.

Founding. It was on the 8th of July, 1925, in
the Royal Albert Hall, London, in the presence of
their Majesties, then their Royal Highnesses the
Duke and Duchess of York, and of a great gather-
ing of pe0ple of all classes, that the following reso-
lution was put to the meeting and carried with
acclamation :

“That this meeting, recognizing the vital im—
portance of playing fields to the physical, moral
and mental welfare of the youth of the country,
deplores the widespread and increasing shortage of
recreation grounds, and urges all Local Authori-
ties, Sports Governing Bodies, Societies, and mem-
bers of the public interested in the matter to co-
operate with the National Playing Fields Associa-

MARCH 1947

tion, in order that, by their united efforts, the de—
ficiency may be met.”

Immediately following the resolution, the Duke
of Sutherland, who presided, announced that His
Majesty had graciously consented to become the
President of the Association.

His Majesty’s faith in the National Playing
Fields Association has been progressively jus-
tified by the remarkable progress which the As-
sociation has made since it was launched; a faith
which is still demonstrated by the fact that His
Majesty remains to this day the Association’s
Patron. He takes a keen personal interest in the
movement, and his interest and enthusiasm are
happily shared in no small degree by 'Her Majesty.

The problem of the provision of adequate play-
ing fields has been dealt with sporadically in this
country for many years prior to the founding of
the N .P.F.A. Much excellent work had been done
by Societies specially formed for the purpose in
London, Manchester, Norwich, Worcester, and
a few other places. Before actually proceeding to
form the National Association, however, a letter
was prepared for publication in the press, to which
the signatures of some of the most prominent and
influential men and women in the country were
obtained. The response came in unmistakable
language, every writer bearing testimony to the
intense demand for playing fields, particularly for
the young people, in every part of the country,
and urging the necessity of immediate action.

Gifts; Financial Support. His Majesty the King
gave the country a Royal start by presenting the
playing fields at Hampton Wick and gifts of Play—
ing Fields and financial contributions poured in
from generous donors whose names are too numer-
ous to mention in full here. This brief account
would be incomplete, however, without reference
to the magnificent generosity of the Carnegie
United Kingdom Trustees whose donation of
£200,000 was not only of immense practical value
but was, in addition, a source of inspiration and
encouragement to all concerned.

Offers of Service. An equally generous response
was received from every part of the country by
way of offers of voluntary service. These were
gladly accepted and enabled the Association to de-
centralize its activities and establish itself from the

647

outset on a sound, democratic basis, encouraging
and harnessing local effort and enthusiasm.

The County Associations. The basis of Playing
Fields work became the County Associations and
there were sufficient volunteers in the first year or
two to staff thirty-eight County Associations in
England, several in Wales and Scotland, and one
for Northern Ireland. The movement has since
taken root in South Africa and Palestine.

Aims and Obiects. An outstanding need which
the Association has throughout exerted its influ-

ence and its efforts to supply with some measure
of success, though much remains to be done, is the

provision of adequate children’s playgrounds in
the congested areas of the cities and big towns,
and especially in those areas which are far re-
moved from the nearest public park.

Further, in appealing for support to all who have
at heart the interests and future of the race, the
Association has ever borne in mind the thought so
aptly expressed by Joseph Lee, that:

. “The boy without a playground is father to the
man without a job.”

This was the background which led the Associa-
tion to formulate its aims and objects under the
following six heads, later expanded to embrace
everything pertaining to the provision, equipment,
maintenance and use of playing fields, the en-
couragement of Play Leadership and the training
of Play Leaders:

 

I. To secure adequate playing fields for the
present and future needs of all sections of

the community.

2. ‘To secure proper playgrounds for the cliff
dren. /

in and around our increasingly conge ted

3. To save the few open Spaces that still (XiSt
cities and towns. k

4.. To save existing sports grounds which are
threatened with extinction.

5. To focus local opinion and provide an or—
ganization to give it effective expression.

6. To cooperate with all Local Authorities and
others who are striving to secure these obects.

Royal Charter. In 1933 a Royal Charter was
granted to the Association as a voluntary organi—
zation to be managed by a Council on which are
representatives of the National bodies governing
sport and all recognized organizations interested
in social welfare, local government and physical
recreation.

Achievements. That the Association has done
much to attain its objects is universally admitted;
that much yet remains to be done is equally true.
Altogether the Association has assisted to pro-
vide 1,430 new Playing Fields, which afford accom-
modation for 1% million people; it has also helped
to improve and equip many hundreds of other
grounds. Moreover, the. number of grounds now
held in trust by the Association exceeds 100. It
has, in addition, in-
fluenced the expenditure
of over three million
pounds on Playing Fields.
Above all, its prOpaganda
has awakened the public
conscience to the recrea-
tional needs of the na-
tion, paved the way for
the passing of the Physi-
cal Training and Recrea-i
tion Act; 1937,. and led to
the amendment of the
Education Act, 1944, and
to the renewal of grant
aid from the National
Exchequer as an essen-
tial encouragement of
local effort.

Nevertheless, although-
the Association is legiti-
mately proud of its many
successes it recognizes

Courtesy British Information Service

that its self-imposed task
{
REGREATIGDN

will not be finished until every town-dweller and
villager is provided with those recreational facili-
ties which are so vitally important to the health and
happiness of the whole community, 'and until every
child has somewhere to play, other than in the in-
security of the streets, and that measure of en-
couragement and guidance in the playing of games
that wise and efi‘acing Play Leadership alone can
provide.

The Press. From the very commencement of the
movement the press of the country has given the
National Playing Fields Association its cordial
and emphatic support. This powerful and practi-
cally unanimous backing' has helped the movement
enormously, and has been a great encouragement
to the Council and Executive Committee in giving
effect to their policy and in carrying out the heavy
and constantly increasing work of the Association.

The Association goes forward today with its
faith as strong as ever that there will continue to
be that combined effort of individual initiative and
public enterprise through which alone the final and
satisfactory culmination of its great task can be
attained.

War: Damaged and Requisitioned Playing Fields.
Many of our largest and best playing fields were
required for emergency purposes. Some of these
will probably never become playing fields again
and in the case of others it will take years to
remove concrete, returf and restore to their former
use. New playing fields were not acquired or laid
out. Large population changes took place and, for
various reasons such as the housing shortage and
changing industries and industrial areas, the
spread of population is not now quite the same.
In some towns and rural areas, therefore, there is
not only the leeway of war years to make good
but, in addition, the need to make provision for an
,- increased population.

The disentangling of wartime requisitioning of.

land and the post-war demand for land by the
Central and Local Authorities for housing and for
a variety of other vital purposes has resulted in a
spate of legislative enactments which has required
and is requiring the utmost vigilance on the part
of the N.P.F.A. in safeguarding the legitimate
interests of the community for facilities for out-
door recreation. -

During the war the Officers and Staff of the
N.P.F.A. and of the County Associations were
naturally dispersed on wartime purposes and our
organization has had to be rebuilt while still taking

the strain of the exceptionally heavy post-war
demands.

MARCH 1947

Structure of N.P.F.A. We have been ‘greatly'en-
couraged during the past twelve months base by
the fact that practically all our County. Associa-
tions have revived and are strengthened  new
personnel, and that the number of local. authorities
who have become Corporate Members  in-
creased from just under 400 to nearly; 1,600.. This
last point, incidentally, brings out I believe one of
the many differences in structure of'ou‘r respective
Associations. We are a hundred percent volun-
tary association, deriving no direct financial help
from statutory sources and subject to no official _
control or direction. Our standing and relation-
ship, however, with all the statutory agencies has

. always been excellent and continues to be so. The

war has in a measure helped in this direction for
it brought home more clearly than ever before the
need for and the value of close and friendly cooper-
ation between statutory and voluntary agencies.

Relationship with Other Agencies. We regard it
as important that the initiative in obtaining play-
ing fields should rest with each local community
and that from the outset the people who are likely -
to need and use the playing fields, when provided,
should be consulted in regard to the choice of site .
and the lay-out. Our Association helps the local
community with legal and technical advice, and
collaborates with them and with the local authority
in insuring for every worthy project aireasonable
amount of financial support from central govern-
ment sources or from the Association’s own Grants
Fund. We are forging, therefore, an effective part-
nership on a National level and, through our
County Associations, on a county, city and 'village
level, between the individual citizen, the local gov-
ernment officers, the local authority members, and
the representatives of the central government de-
partments concerned, i.e., the Ministry of Educa--
tion, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Town-
and Country Planning, the Ministry of Agricul~
ture. .

Sometimes this method of consultation at all
levels between statutory and voluntary agencies
may seem a little slow, but it gets. the job done
with good will. The process of getting playing
fields by a united effort invests them with a
greater value when obtained and ensures that they
will be more fully appreciated and used. .

' Publications." A's-part of our Advisory Service
in this post-war period we have published fol:
lowing booklets, copies of which are enclosed :c  '

The Selection of Land for a Pla‘ying'Fieldu' 

The Lay-out' of Playing Fields  a
The County Guide -

649

Rules . for a County Playing
Fields Association
How to Obtain a Playing Field

Moreover, the Association’s
Journal has been revived and has
run four quarterly issues. The
support has been greater than we
anticipated and we have decided,
therefore, to join with our col—
leagues in the Central Council of
Physical Recreation, in publish-
ing it under joint auspices, com-
mencing in January next, and
subject to there being no legal
reason to restrain us from doing
so—for there is a Journal pub—
lished over here called Canoe and
Small Boat Recreation—we pro
posed to call it Recreation. In
that event we shall have one more
link in common. (Since dictating
this letter we have decided to call
it Recreation Review.)

Steps Taken to Acquire New
Playing Fields. An outstanding
achievement was a Conference of
Representatives of Local Authori-
ties which ,we recently called here
in London to consider practical
steps to take in acquiring new
playing fields and to consider
Play Leadership. Over 700 repre—
sentatives from every type of local
authority came together. Planning
and Education Officers and mem-
bers of their respective committees, County Coun-
cillors, Urban and Rural. District Councillors,
Parish Councillors, Park Superintendents and
Physical Training Organizers. They came from
every one of the 49 English and 12 Welsh Admin-
istrative Counties. (Scotland has its own organi-
zation, though it works very closely with us and
regards itself as our Scottish branch.) I hope to
send you a c0py of the printed proceedings of this
Conference quite shortly.

War Memorials. Almost every post brings us a
crop of fresh inquiries for legal, technical and/or
general advice and in many cases also for financial
assistance. All over the country, particularly in
our villages, local communities are planning play-
ing fieldsasNVar Memorials. The labour and ma-
terials are not available at the moment to lay them
out and to equip them, but, with our advice and

 

So you see we are much alive as an organiza-
tion and our services are greatly in demand, while
the social conscience here is awakened, largely no
doubt owing to our effective work and propaganda
these twenty-one years past, to ‘the vital necessity
for the provision of adequate facilities for healthy
outdoor recreation for folk of all ages, for the-
especial provision of safe playgrounds for the use
of children out of school hours, and for encourage-
ment and guidance in the playing of team games.

Status of Recreation in Great Britain. Throughih
industrial and factory legislation, through the rec- in
ognition of our trade unions and their practices
and in other ways, Britain guarantees to every
member of the community a minimum of leisure;
statutory interest, encouragement and support in

help they are concentrating on securing the sites. the provision of leisure time facilities is a natural

,0

‘i
6350 ' _ p - f RECREATION

and indeed an inevitable corollary. We no longer
have a leisured class but rather a community which
of necessity works hard and requires for its balance
and stability the means to play hard -too.

I must have written more than enough now to
satisfy your thirst and that of your colleagues for
information as to what we are doing or attempting
on this side of the Atlantic. Even so I have proba-

bly not answered all the queries in your mind. In
that event just let me know at any time what I

have left out and I will endeavor to repair the
omission.

\Vith sincerest good wishes,
Yours fraterna‘lly,
(Signed) ERNEST NEALE,
' Deputy Secretary.

 

 

Clubs tor

Bowmen

By FRANK T. BAWDEN
President Unquowa Archers

and WALTER H. HELLMANN
Superintendent of Recreation
Fairfield, Connecticut

RCUERY FITS WELL into any community recre-

A ation program. It appeals to men and women,

boys and girls, young and old alike. Because

it is a test of skill rather than of strength, all can

compete on an equal basis. Yet the drawing weight

of a 40 pound bow will prove an adequate incen—
tive for even the strongest arm.

The physically handicapped can 'find in archery
an Opportunity to enjoy the good fellowship and
social experiences which they are often denied in
other sports, and it is an ideal sport for family
recreation programs. It can accommodate large
numbers of participants or it can help an individual
till in a vacant hour or two. It is self—directed
activity that needs no special type of trained lead-
ership or supervision. It is adaptable for outdoor
and indoor participation, so it is not a seasonal
sport and may be enjoyed all the year round.

Space and Equipment

The space requirements for archery are quite
modest. The equipment is relatively inexpensive
in cost. The individual archer usually owns his
own bow, arrows and arm and hnger guards. A
good beginner’s outfit can be bought for about
$10. Targets are generally owned by the-club or
recreation department. Faces for the targets are
bought by the dozen at a reasonable price. For out-
door shooting the regulation 48 inch targets, cost-

MARCH 1947

 

 

(‘mrrfcsy Hood College

ing about $10, are used. For indoor shooting the
24 inch target (costing about $5) will prove satis-
factory. These targets usually last about a season.
New faces, of course, are provided as needed.

In order to shoot well you should enjoy your
bow and arrows to the fullest extent. In choosing
a bow, therefore, make sure it is not too strong.
Drawing weights run all the way from 10 to 40
pounds. In capable hands either type can send its
arrow true to the mark. Arrows should be selected
in lengths and weights that suit the individual
archer. The average men’s arrow is 26 inches and
the ladies’ arrow runs about 24 inches.

651

:NVhen shooting outdoors a' grassy bank or slope
makes-a good background for the targets, provides
a safety. factor behind them. For indoor shooting
several old rugs or carpets hung behind the tar—
gets will serve as backstop for any stray arrows.

Club

To get the full benefit from archery it is desir-
able to organize a club. Members not only enjoy
the social advantages of a club but are able to meet
with other clubs in. friendly competition. Where
distances make outside meets difficult, matches can
be held by mail. Each club shoots on its home
range and then exchanges scores. A wide fellow-
ship of acquaintance can thus be established.

Before the Unquowa Archers Club of Fairfield,
Connecticut, was started, there were only a few
people in the town actively interested in archery.
An inquiry at the Board of Recreation office
brought the suggestion that an invitation be ex-
tended (through the local papers) to a meeting of
all those interested in forming a club. There were
only 11 people present at the first meeting. Some
were experienced archers, but most of them were
people who had at some time or other shot a bow
and arrow and felt the urge to try it again. This
organization meeting took place less than a year
ago and today our membership is 34.

After a constitution and by-laws were adopted,
a suitable name was sought for the club. The
name “Unquowa” was decided upon because it
had been the name of the Indian tribe which had
settled on the site of Fairfield in pre-colonial times.

The recreation department assigned the clubwan
area in one of the town parks for an outdoor range
and later obtained the use of the high school gym-
nasium one night per week for club use during the
indoor season.

Procedure

In our indoor program weekly scores are kept by
shooting 90 arrows at a 24 inch target. Each per-
son shoots six arrows, which is called one end.
When all have finished shooting an end the arrows
are pulled from the targets and the scores counted
as follows: Arrows in the gold count 9, in the red
7, in the blue 5, in the black 3, and in the white I.
This procedure is repeated until 15 ends or 90
arrows have been shot. The scores are totaled for
the evening and recorded by the secretary. After
six weeks, the shooters are classified into A, B and
C classes for ladies and men. After this classifica-
tion there is another six weeks’ period of shooting
for club championships. The board of recreation
offers prizes for this event.

Outdoors in the summer we shoot the Ameri-
can round which is shot at the regulation target.
This round consists of 90 arrows, 30 of which are
shot from 60 yards, 30 from 50 yards and 30 from
40 yards. The score is kept in the same manner
as for indoor shoots. With a steady increase in
membership, we are looking forward to next sum—
mer when we hope to stage a district championship
meet and to enter a team in the state champion-
ship matches.

For healthy, happy; inexpensive recreation we
heartily recommend archery for everyone.

 

 

The Scoreboard

NGUSTA, GEORGIA: For the 1947 basketball season the Augusta Recreation Department has announced
a city basketball league with 8 men’s teams, 4 women’s teams, 8 junior teams, ‘and, for the first
time, a junior basketball league composed of teams from' the grammar school.

San Francisco, California: Young basketballers—and experienced players, too—had a chance at
some expert help for their games. They took advantage of it, too, for 500 people came to a basketball
clinic—and that in spite of very bad weather—to watch the fundamentals of the game demonstrated and

explained by experts.

J“

Cleveland—Cincinnati, Ohio: Ohio teachers, it would seem, like to “set ’em up in the other?

alley.” At any rate seven five-man bowling teams of Cleveland teachers matched alley skills with a like
number of Cincinnati teachers in Columbus. And, just to round out a day of fun, they matched wits

and anecdotes over a pre-bowling luncheon.

652

RECREATION 1

waterproof..wearprool

_
i

r : -| - ._
was? {ac-hmvé-‘WWMH  n «axiom.   .- A. ._ :t a: 1 _,
\' ' - ' . . _- _ ._ _._ I ‘

The Voit rubber-covered volleyball
always delivers the finest perform-
ance under all playing conditions
over the longest period of time.

- ' ' - w. J. von RUBBER CO'RP.

n u an c
'N5"'1’" 7 1600 E. 25th Street, los Angeles II a 180 No. Wacker Drive. Chicago 6

 

troducing a new wrinkle. From time to

time, as requests for information on sub-
jects of general interest come to us we’ll repro-
duce them——in whole or in part—in this column
along with our answers. Then—and here’s where
you experts get your innings——you’re invited to
comment, to add to or subtract from our answers.
If you’ll cooperate, we think we can work out
something interesting and constructive in the line
of “letters to the editor,” “vox pOpuli,” “the
question box” or what have you.

Wi'f‘H THIS ISSUE OF RECREATION WE are in-

I"

Are you ready for the question?

A superintendent of recreation wants to know
whether any cities have an unofficial fund to take
care of medical expenses incurred by participants
in recreation programs conducted by municipalities
since it is not usually considered legal for public
funds to be used for this purpose.

We told him of three cities—Baltimore, Mary—
land; Cleveland, Ohio; St. Louis, Missouri-—
which set up such a fund from the proceeds of a
city—wide sports day program including in each
case several ball games.

Have you any other ideas?

The secretary of a city planning commission,
having been advised by the City Solicitor that play
and recreation space. can be legally required for all
new residential developments without cost to the
city, inquires:

I. To how large a residential subdivision should
such a law pertain?

654

 

2. Should the requirements for play and recrea-
tion space be the same for a deveIOpment ad—
joining or near a public park or playgrounds
as in a congested area far from any recreation
facilities?

3. How much space should be set aside in each
new development?

.4. Could the Space be provided by a builder off
the development—e.g., within a block of the
new development?

5. Should age limits be specified for those privi—
leged to use 'such play and recreation facilities?

Our answers to the live questions follow in brief.
Have you further information?

I. Most laws and local regulations do not specify
the size of the sub-division which should be
required to dedicate recreation areas, using
instead the phrase “that due consideration be
given to such dedication.”

.-

2. No, if the recreation areas are adequate to
take care of the new deve10pment. If not, the
new development may be expected to include
enough space to meet national standards.

3. The space set aside should be based on density
' of population.

4. Y es, the main consideration is the selection
of a location which would best serve the popu—
lation which is expected to use the area.

5.It’s better not to specify age limits in any
ordinance.

RECREATION

Musnc: Crime Cure?

VERY THINKING human being today is aware
E of the alarming increase in crime——especially
juvenile delinquncy—throughout the world.

A widespread discussion of potential remedies is
going on in print, education conferences and pub-
lic forums. But the experts are overlooking one
factor which is an important influence in the pro-
vention of crime: music.

Music not ony has charms to sooth the savage
breast, but it has enchantments that can pacify the
savage in the civilized Breast. It is vitally im—
portant in the prevention of crime because it in-
duces moods and states of mind that are incom-
patible with crime.

Perfect Record

The truth of music’s power can be proved by
statistics. In 1928, on the occasions of its 25th
anniversary, the Music School Settlement in the
heart of New York City’s East Side published
some amazing findings:

In its quarter-of-a—century existence, not one
of the 30,000 children enrolled in its music studies
- has ever come before a Juvenile Court for delin-
quency.

Time has not shaken this record. Today, 18
years after the first figures were released, the
school can still°b0ast of never having had a de-
linquent.

After learning about the astounding crimeless
state at the Music School Settlement, I determined
to find out what percentage of criminals confined
to penal institutions throughout the U. S. had re—
ceived a musical education.

The-response to my inquiries provides food for
serious thought. Eighty-seven percent. of the
prisons answering my form letter had no profes-
sional musicians or musically-educated persons
among their prisoners.

Out of II penal institutions, only four had any
musically-educated inmates at all. Of these four
instiutions, with a convict population totaling
12,401, Sing Sing had the highest number of mu-
sicians—19 out of 2,408 inmates, or less than one
percent. The State,Pentientiary at Joliet, 111., had
the lowest percentage of musicians or musically-
educated persons, not one among its 4,787 charges.

That there seems to be some correlation between

music and character is already realized in some
prisons.

MARCH 1947

For instance, the bandmaster of the Southern
Illinois Penitentiary, after describing how he
trained prisoners who had had no previous knowl-
edge of music to play in the prison band, wrote:

“Trained musicians do not commit crimes—and
men who receive musical training in penal institu-
tions stay out when released.”

There is nothing new in the concept of musical
therapy. Even the Greeks had a word for it. Its
importance in the development of character was
recognized by Plato, who said in his “Republic.”

“Musical training is a more potent instrument
than any other, because rhythm and harmony find
their way into the inward places of the soul, on
which they mightily fasten, imparting grace, and
making the soul of him who is educated, graceful,
or of him who is ill educated ungraceful.”

In spite of the strong argument attesting to its
importance, music in the present scheme of gen-
eral education holds a place far below its potential
value. Despite the good, bad and indifferent music-
appreciation classes 'in our school curriculum,
music is regarded only as a special skill or as a
diversion. '

The physically exciting rhythms of popular
music are not what I mean when I speak of bene-
ficial music. In fact I believe that an overdose of
this type of stimulation to which our young people
are subjected may play a large part in contributing
to delinquency. Of course, as a serious musician,
I may be prejudiced, but I sincerely believe great
art music exerts an influence for good.

It is‘important that music—perhaps an hour of
it—be included in the daily routine of a child’s
life. This does not mean he has actually to per-
for music (it might even be harmful to force an
unwilling child to play an instrument) but I be-
lieve he should have the experience of listening to
good music.

Radio and phonograph provide excellent musical
opportunities. But to listen intelligently with
added enjoyment, a child needs adequate musical
guidance.

The parents, as well as the teacher of music,
share the responsibility of furnishing the inspiring
musical experience that form one of the great
character—building infiuences of youth and per-
severe through life as a force for good.

Let us give music a chance to use its vast
power.-———Olga S amarof.

Reprinted by permission from This Week Magazine.
Copyright 1946 by the United NeWSpapers Magazine

Corporation.
655

Survey
By JANE W. POULTON

AST SPRING the Community Council of Richmond,
Virginia, made a survey of the activities and
interests of the city’s teen—age p0pulation. Its

purpose was twofold: to analyze participation in
the existing recreation facilities, and to discover
wherein the present programs were failing to take
care of the needs of the teen-agers. From a long
list of specified kinds of recreation including sports,
hobbies, and discussion groups, the children were
asked to check their interests. The report indi-
cated a probable need for more coordination be-
tween the agencies, the churches,‘ the schools and
the home.

Agencies Benefit

Richmond agencies, where possible, revamped
their programs to conform to survey results. The
Y.VV.C.A. reported that its staff and the teen—age
committee had reorganized the/work of the teen-
age department. There was an expansion of the
club programs in senior high schools and an elimi-
nation of some programs with younger age groups
where the Scouts place more emphasis in their
work. The elimination of some work with younger
groups allowed an expansion of activities for the
teen-agers. The co—ed teen-age center developed
its program more fully to include special Saturday
morning group programs for discussions on boy-
girl relationships and other subjects of interest to
the group as revealed in the survey. Plans were
made to make swimming more widely available in
accordance with its high rank as a favored recrea-
tion. The teen-age committee of the Y.W.C.A.
went on record in favor of central planning for
teen—agers and designated a part of the time of the
professional staff for that purpose.

Although the Scouts work for the most part
with a younger group, the Girl Scouts are placing
greater emphasis on a program with the. Boy
Scouts in order to meet the interest of the teen-
age Scouts in co—ed activity. There is joint plan-
ning between the teen—age committee of the Y.W.
CA. and the Girl Scout Council on a cooperative
co-ed day camp program for next summer. Here-
tofore both the Scouts and the central Y.W.C.A.
have operated separate day " camps for younger

6S6

Thé City of Richmond
Studies Its Teen-age
Popu/ation

children. It is hoped that by pooling the staff and
resources of the two agencies more and better
services will be provided and a larger number of
individuals can be served.

The City Division of Recreation reports that it
has included in its programs for years most of the
desired activities. Out of the list of 16 higher
percentage activities in the survey, I I ‘are actively
participated in. Of the remaining five activities,
three have not proved advisable for. the public
recreation program. . '

The Jewish Community Center of Richmond,
which was organized about the time the survey
was concluded, has used the results with its youth
council in the selection of program emphasis and
planning. '

According to the Community Council one of
the great problems in community recreation is find-
ing adequate adult leadership, and while there are
other factors that prevent the programs in Rich-
mond from meeting all the needs brought out in
the survey, the agencies are now more than ever
aware of inadequacies and are working towards a
solution of the. problem. Results of the survey
have been made known to both staff and volunteer
groups responsible for teen-age programs and
these groups will continue to use the results as a
basis for planning. Each questionnaire returned-
by the student listed the name and address, and it
has thus been possible to use the questionnaires
for recruiting purposes for this year.

The study was analyzed bi—racially for Negro
and white children. It was, therefore, possible to
show agencies responsible for working with Negro
groups wherein program interests differed between
white and Negro children. The Y.M.C,A. and
Y.VV.C.A. have planned together additional jointly
sponsored co—ed programs for Negro teen—agers,
and two other agencies working with this group
are providingdiscussion groups and other activi-
ties requested by the Negro young people. gUn-
fortunately, inadequate facilities and staff ' haVe
prevented, the expansion of programs to_meet all
of the needs of the Negro youth which were made
clear by the survey. I

   

LOOK 1'0 wanou

For the Latest and the Best!

 

f

In Baseballs _ ,4 -;----~;-;.~.T

By every form of com-
parison—materials,
workmanship and per-
formance—no finer

baseball is made today
than the Wilson

uOfficial” WISOCC
used by the American
Association and the
Pacific Coast Leagues
exclusively, and many
other important
leagues. "

Remember this the next time you buy
baseball equipment—whether it’s a
new ball, glove or mitt, or a uniform
designed for greater playing-ease and
modern styling—it’s the LAST WORD
from any angle if it’s labeled
“WILSON.” Look to the leader for
the latest and best.

 

'OCOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0.000000000000..00.... O...0.0000000.......OOOOOCOOOOOOOOOCOOOOI

In Gloves

Elson designers,
:dited with many
1' or developments in
irts equipment, have
he up with another
 the Wilson “Ball
iwk”—-—an entirely
v design in a field-
; glove that “snares
1 and holds ’em."
nes in two sizes.Reg.

‘ Pat.0ff.

   

In Mitts

It’s the famous “Trap
per" model—the sen
sation of the year i:
first basemen’s mitts
Another example 0
the Wilson trademarl
identified with t-hc
latest and the best. Reg

U. S. Pat.O&'.

 

 

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.‘

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
A' Wilson 8. Co., Inc, subsidiary

The Process

The survey itself was conducted through ques-
tionnaires tilled out by the pupils in grades 7 to II
in all Richmond high schools. Out of an estimated
11,237 children, 8,500 or 76 percent returned the
questionnaire filled in completely. The proportion
returned by the individual schools, however, varied
in completeness. Therefore, it seemed advisable to
conduct the study by using a sample of 20 percent
of the school membership. This sample was broken
down by race, schools, and classes within each
school. The representativeness of the sample was
tested statistically on the basis of the sex of school
children, a characteristic which was known both
for the- sample and for the total number of chil-
dren in the grades covered. On this basis, the
sample was found to be highly representative.

The survey consisted of three parts: questions
of general interest about the time children had
free for recreation and the times when parents
were at home during after-school hours; questions
concerning the participation of children in present
activities of agencies, school, church and unow
ganized play on streets, vacant lots and play-
grounds; questions about a number of selected
sports, hobbies, discussion topics for groups, and
musical activities. In this last section the children
were also asked to express their attitudes toward

co-ed activities.

Questions of General Interest

In checking the time free for recreation activity
(before supper, after supper, or both periods)
most children considered the first days of the week
as the most favorable for recreation, while per-
centages of children free to play on Friday and
Saturday were below averages for the week in
most groups. This may mean that a high propor—
tion of children of these ages work for pay or help
with chores at home on Friday afternoon and Sat-
urday. It is also possible that children understood
the question which read, “check times you are free
for recreation activities” to refer to organized
group activities only, while the week ends may be
their favorite days for movie-going, visits to
friends, unorganized play or reading (which was
not studied at all in the survey as a form of rec-
reation).

Percentages for white and Negro children were

parallel for the most part except in the group 15
years and over for the period before supper.

In studying the percentages in Table I it ap-
pears that the percentage of children not free to
play is much too high and that there must have

658

been some misunderstanding about the 'meaning
of the question. If the children understood the
question to mean time free for additional recrea-
tion activities or time free for planned activities
outside of the home, then the percentage of chil-
dren needing such planned recreation is rather

high.
TAB LE I

Average Time Free for Recreation

Average for Average for

Children in Children in
Age of Children and \Vhite Schools Negro Schools

Time of day Number Percent Number Percent
All Children

Before Supper . . . . . .. 4,000 52 1,500 44

After Supper . . . . . . .. 3,500 46 1,800 50

Unduplicated Total . .. 5,000 74 2,500 71
Under 15 years of Age

Before Supper . . . . . .. 2,300 57 1,000 50

After Supper . . . . . . . . 2,000 48 1,000 50

Unduplicated Total . . . 3,100 76 1,400 75
Fifteen Years and Over

Before Supper . . . . . .. 1,700 46 500 36

After Supper . . . . . . .. 1,500 44 800 49

Unduplicated Total . . . 2,500 72 1,100 65

NOTE: The percentages given here 'are the averages of the per-
centages for the six days of the week. Estimates of the number
of children have been rounded to the nearest hundred. The
unduplicated total includes all children who can play at some
time, either before supper, after supper or at both periods.

The second question of general interest dealt
with the times when parents were at home. The
children were asked to indicate what times their
parents were usually at home after school, (after
supper, both times or neither time). As might be
expected, many more mothers than fathers spend
full time at home. Among whites, 65 percent of
the mothers and 18 percent of the fathers are
usually at home in the afternoon and evening after
the child is back from school. These percentages
are much lower for Negroes (43 percent of the
mothers and 15 percent of the fathers). On the
other hand, the percentages of fathers usually
absent is alarmingly high ( 32 percent for white
and 41 percent for Negro). Perhaps more serious
in its implications for Richmond youth is the
absence both after school and after supper of one
white mother out of IO and one Negro mother out
of every six.

Parents of Negro children are more likely to
stay at home when the children are under 15
years of age than when the children are older.
In the case of white parents, the age of children
within the group studied does not seem to affect
the presence or absence from home.

interesting from a sociological standpoint but to
recreation leaders everywhere they point clearly
to the great necessity for better use of facilities
and closer teamwork among those responsible for
guidance of the teen-age group.

RECREATION

r}:

i
t

it

The results of these two questions are not only 1'

‘1!

TIGHT BUDGET?

Perhaps you have been thinking:
"archery would fit into my program
just fine, and I know the response
would be big, but where’s the
money coming from?” Cheer up.
Archery is among the least expen-
sive sports in organized recreation.-

Let’s say, for instance, you will
want to handle sixteen pe0ple at a
time. The costs, taken from Ben
Pearson’s 1947 catalog, will run like
this, for good quality tackle:

16 bows . $ 96.00
16 dozen arrows* $ 96.00
16 armguards . $ 18.40
16 fingertabs 3 4.00
16 ground quivers $ 20.00
4 targets, with

stands 8: covers* * $ 46.80

Total $281.20

*tu'ice (be number you need, but arrow: will
break sometimes.

**4 archer: to a target, standard procedure.

By buying the best range tackle,
you could hardly double this figure,

     
    
   
    
 
   

JUST

     

PUBLISHED:

MARCH 1947

THE
FAMOUS

BEN punsou CATALOG "

We will gladly send you, free of charge, a copy of the current
Ben Pearson catalog, just off the press last month. This is the
largest listing of archery tackle we know of; all maior items are
illustrated, all pieces of tackle are plainly priced. Quantity will
probably be limited by the amount of paper available so we
suggest you order a copy right now!

OF THE

TRY ARCHERY

but by cutting down somewhat on
quality (n0t too wise a move, in
our opinion) you could nearly
halve it. All else you need is a space
in which to sh00t. You can get by
on 50 yards quite nicely, 80 yards
is simply luxurious. And for
beginners even less is adequate.

So if you are not already offering
archery as a part of your program,
you can see that it is a small sum
that is standing in your way. Look
up the Ben Pearson dealer near you.
He will help you get set up, and we
will furnish how-to-shoor instruc-
tions, and all the other help you
need.

Meanwhile, send for the 1947
edition of the Ben Pearson catalog,
or for special publications on show-
ing, or organizing archery. We
invite correspondence on your par-
ticular situation or problems. We
maintain an advisory service

especially for that purpose.

GUIVER
$1 .25

1947 EDITION

  

BOW

  
 
 
 
  
    
 
    
  
  
   
   
   
       
    
   
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   

ARMGUARD
$1.15

ARROWS

$6.00 002.

 

659

TABLE 2
Distribution of Children by Time of Day When
Parents Are Usually at Home

White Children Negro Children
Number Percent Number Percent

 

Time of day

 

Mother at Home

Before Supper . . . . . .. 630 8 613- 17
After Supper . . . . . . .. 1,380 18 815 23
Both Times . . . . . . . .. 5,010 65 1,502 43
Neither . . . . . . . . . . . .. 695 9 594 17
Father at Home
Before Supper . . . . . .. 294 4 378 11
After Supper . . . . . . .. 3,536 46 1,207 34
Both Times . . . . . . . .. 1,404 18 509 15
Neither . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2,481 32 1,429 41

 

Under the heading of types of recreation in
which children are at present engaging, the first
two items dealt with were visits to friends and
movie attendance. The median number of visits to
friends per week for all white children were 2.4
visits. For Negro children it was slightly lower——
2.2 visits. There was very little variation in fre-
quency of visits by sex, age and section, of the city.

However, in general, it was discovered that girls .

were somewhat more inclined to visit their friends
than boys, children under 15 years of age slightly
more than the older group. The average number
of visits per week seems to be very low for young
people. However, one must bear in mind that
every visit is a reciprocal affair and, when this is
taken into account, the number of social contacts
for children becomes higher.

The movie attendance of children deserves
special attention. Averages fluctuate around one
attendance per week for most groups and are a

little higher for white children than fpr Negroes.
In this case it is not the averages but rather the
two extremes of the distribution which are of
major interest. First of all there was a high per-
centage of children who did not go to the movies
at all (21 percent for all white children and 27
percent for all Negro children of the city), and
secondly, an appallingly high percentage (I3 per-
cent) indicated that they went to the movies three
times or more per week. From these figures one
can estimate that‘ over 1,000 white children and
500 Negro children in the Richmond high schools
go to the movies every other day or more frequently,
leaving them little time for study, reading, or more
constructive recreation.

Special attention was also given to the study of
unorganized forms of recreation listed in the main
body of the questionnaire which was devoted to
questions concerning participation. Of the play
activities, the highest percentage of participation
in any activity was in “watching school games,”
checked by 56 percent of the white children and
53 percent of the ‘Negro children. Playing on
playgrounds ran a close second for Negroes (52
percent). It was also ranked as the second activity
for white children but the percentage dropped to
39 percent. After these two activities, the third
and fourth most common types of recreation were
“playing on vacant lots” and “playing on the
street.” Playing on vacant lots was checked by
30 percent of the white children and playing on

the streets was checked by 29 percent. The' rank .

. TABLE 3 .
Children Ranked by Participation in Selected Organizations and Activities

 

 

ACTIVITY Perdgiiltc ChddreRank Pergiitgm Chlldretihnk
Watching School Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 56 1 53 1

Playing on Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 2 52 2

Playing on Vacant Lots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 3 32 4

Playing on Streets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 4 34 3

Playing on Athletic Teams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 5 21 9
Participating in: .
Church Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27 6 29 5

Junior Red Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 22 7 19 10.5

Church Canteens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19 8 13 , 17

School Music Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17 9 19 10.5 1

Scout Troops . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 10 27 6 '

All Y Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15 11 24 7

Cadet Corps . ..‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 12 . 15 14.5

Other School Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 13 15 14.5

Summer Camps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 14 14 16
Social Clubs ................................. .. 9 15 17 13 r"
Night School Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .. 7 17 8 21 '

Student Government . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 17 9 19 |.

School Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 17 8 21 ’1.

Lewis Ginter Community Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 19.5 -— — “1

Girl Reserves * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 19.5 ' ' 12 18 

School Dramatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 21.5 8 21 I

Y Canteens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 21.5 18 12

Youth for Christ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 23 5 23
Hi-Y .......  .............................. .. 2 24 4 24
Colored Recreation Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. — - 23 8

 

' Percent computed on the basis of all girls, not children of both sexes as for all other activities.

660

RECREATION i

    
 
  
  

ES, this is the “perfect playground device,” agree
leading authorities everywhere—in education,
recreation, health and social work. No other can
match it. Consider:

0 More than lllIE IlllllllliEll MllIlIlll child-piay-hours
without a single serious accident.

0 Brings into use every important muscle oithe body.
0 May be used all year ’round.

0 lie moving parts—nothing to year out, replace,
oil. adjust:

O Accommodates more children per square loot of
ground occupied than any other play device.

   

UUTDUUR MUDEL

For elementary school children of oil ages;
steel construction, 8'4” long, 6' 3 wide with
10' 6" lower.

INDUUR MODEL

For llyoung children;’ hardwood construction,
5' 0 square with 6' 9' tower. Slide 16 wide
by 7' IO ' long, optional;

JUNGLEGYMS are in daily use from coast to coast S M“
, Write for complete specifications and prices   V

THE J. E. CORPORATION
" .. OTTAWA, rumors

0 Costs less per child accommodated than any other
play device.

0 Develops imagination, character and social apti-
tudes—as well as bodies.

O the “magnet” of the playground—possessing un-
surpassed appeal to children.

  

MANUFACTURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

WRITE FOR PORTER'S COMPLETE RECREATION EQUIPMENT CATALOG

SW'Ings ' seesaw: 0 Slides 0 Merry Go Rounds - Combinations

 

MARCH '1947 661

In every field of sport in Protest
sional, Semi-Pro and Amateur Bast:-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in M13-
nicipal and Industrial Rec-red lion,
MacGrcgor-GoldsmithSpOrts
Equipment isrccognizcd as a hall-
marl: of quality and' unvarying
performance.

’3”'JC’HNAT" fl. OHPP. U. S. A.

for

£very Sport!

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

 

of these‘two activities was in reverse order for
Negro children with playing on the street (34
percent) in third place and playing on vacant lots
( 32 percent) in fourth place. “Playing on athletic
teams” was fifth for owhite' children (28 percent)
and ninth for Negro children (21 percent).

The percentage of boys playing on the streets is
considerably higher than the” percentage of" girls,
the percentage of younger children higher than that
for those I 5 years and over. There is considerable
tluctuation in percentages for the city districts
mentioned before. The percentages are deplorably
high in all cases and translated into round numbers
they indicate that for 3,500 high school children,
playing on the streets is a usual form of out-of—
school activity.

Fortunately, the percentage of children using
playgrounds is consistently higher for all groups
than the percentage playing on the streets. How-
ever, the two sets of percentages are clearly as—
sociated. The higher the proportion of children
playing on the street in a given group, the higher
the percentage of children using playgrounds in
the same group. Probably congested living condi-
tions and absence of private yards for play drive
childrentonto the streets and increase their need
for playgrounds which are obviously still insuf—
ficient in number to take care of the children who
could use them. Since the total number of white
school children is about 8,000 and the number of
Negro children about 3,500, figures from the sur—
vey show that almost 5,000 white high school chil-
dren and 2,000 Negro children never use play-
grounds. This may be due to the fact that some
of these children have ample space at home for
play, or' in some cases it may be that playgrounds
are not accessible.

There is also a surprisingly large number of
children (about 3,500) using vacant lots for play.
H ere, again, boys are much more active than girls
and young children more active than older ones.
There is very little differentiation, however, in the
percentages playing on vacant lots by race and
residence. Obviously then, vacant lots are available
throughout the city and parents of both races look
upon playing on them as less dangerous and un—
desirable than playing on streets.

Besides the play activities, the questionnaire
listed almost 30 recreation organizations and about 1.

a half dozen school activities. One of the interest-
ing results of the analysis of this question was that
Negroes of both sexes show a considerably more
active participation than white children in almost
all organizations to which both races have access.

RECREATION

\

 

This may be due in part to the fact that white
children have a larger number of organizations
from which to choose and, therefore, the percent-
age participation in any particular organization is
lower. It seems more probable that Negro chil-
dren have a greater need for and interest in many
activities outside the home. To support this, Negro
children also showed a higher percentage inter—
ested in the various recreation activities listed in
the section where preferences were studied.

In studying Table 3, one should note that “watch-
ing school games,” “playing on athletic teams” and
other activities are seasonal and indicate that
special planning is necessary for summertime lei-
sure. In line with this it may be observed that
summer camps rank low in both participation and
interest, although the interest in sports that could
be furnished by such camps is high. A preference
for co-ed activity may account for the low per-
centages for camps as most camps are not co-
educational.

Teen-Age Interests

In this final section of the survey the first item
studied was the attitude toward co-ed activity. The
results show that both white and Negro girls are
much more in favor of co—ed affairs than boys (8I

percent of white girls and 80 percent of Negro
girls against 65 percent of the white boys and 72
percent of the Negro boys). Boys under 15 years
of age were less interested in co-ed activities than
older boys. On the other hand, among white girls
it was the younger group that preferred co-ed
recreation (83 percent of girls under I 5 years and
78 percent in the group 15 years and over).

In checking their interests in the selected activi-
ties the group indicated that they preferred hay-
rides, swimming, bowling, bicycling, and listening
to records as their choices if these forms of recre-
ation were available. The percentages for Negroes
were much higher, as noted above, with the ex-
ception of a very limited number of-occupations
such as bowling, swimming, photography, hayrides
and family Outings. Bowling which ranked third
for white children with percentages in the four
sections of the city ranging from 52 percent to 6I
percent, ranked 41 for Negro children with per-
centages varying only from 18 percent to 20 per-
cent. Negro children seemed to be very fond of
bicycling, and were very much more interested
than white children in discussion groups on people
of other races and nationalities (42 percent of the
Negro children contrasted with 12 percent of the
white children). This disparity is even more in-
teresting when it is found to exist in interest in

No use to paint a pool

if the coating won ’1: stay on

To preclude any possibility of peeling, a swimming pool enamel must be resistant to water.

Being thoroughly waterproof, RAMUC is not affected by continuous submersion; and never
blisters or flakes off. This quality explains why a RAMUC job doesn’t need repainting until

it has worn thin—two or three season later.

Water and sun cause most pool paints to fade; a half-bleached-looking pool is surely no

inducement to swim. Yet the swimming pool painted with RAMUC Enamel is a credit to
the community. Pool Managers_ know that RAMUC is not only colorful, but is color-fast.
Mr. C. K. MacDonald, owner of the beautiful Idlewild Pool at Ligonier, Pennsylvania, is a
great booster of RAMUC; it doesn’t fade and it doesn’t peel. .

Ask for the "Swimming Pool Handbook."
No obligation. of course.

INERTOL CO., INC.

470 FRELINGHUYSEN AVE.
NEWARK 5. N. J.

I? SOUTH PARK
SAN FRANCISCO 7. CALIF.

 

MARCH 1947

TABLE 4
Children in White and Negro Schools Ranked By Their Interest in Selected Activities

, .

W’hite Children Negro Children
ACTIVITY Percent Rank Percent Rank
W
Basket-ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 r 11 43 11.5

Bicycle Rides . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 51 5 66 1

'Boating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 52 4 29 26

Bowling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 3 19 41.5

Boxing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 31.5 22 40

Camp Counseling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 44.5 10 47

Co-ed Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 29 16.5 35 19.5

Community Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 11 41 25 33

Cooking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 28.5 34 21

Crafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . 17 3O 12 41.5

Day Camps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 38 23 38.5

Family Outings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 24.5' 19 41.5

Folk Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12 38 26 31

Gardening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 35 24 36

Hayrides . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73 1 55 5

Hobby Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 41 16 43

Knitting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 44.5 ' 25 33

Listening to Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .» . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 6 57 4

Outdoor Outings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 35 13 28 27.5

Pen Pals in Other Countries .., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 13 35 15 44

Photography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 20 24 36

Picnics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 44 9 59 2.5

Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 24.5 41 14

Puppets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 47.5 8 50.5

Roller Skating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 7.5 53 6.5

School Lounge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 43 12 45.5

Sculpture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 50 8 50.5

Sewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 14 33 31 - 25

Sketch Club  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 7 46 9 48.5

Singing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25 21 44 ‘ 10

Social Dancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 43 10 49 8

Softball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 7.5 46 9

Summer Camps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 19 26.5 32 23.5 1

Swimming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 2 59 2.5 ‘

Talks About Appearance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 29 16.5 33 22 I

Talks About Boys and Girls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27 19 53 6.5, .

Talks About Business School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 49 24 36 I

Talks About College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 13 35 36 18

Talks About Dating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 14 43 11.5 ,

Talks About Etiquette . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 22 27 29.5

Talks About Family . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 18 28.5 37 17

Talks About Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 11 41 28 27.5

Talks About People of Other Races . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 38 42 13 '|

Talks on Personality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 26.5 25 33

Talks on Personal Problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 31.5 32 23.5 |

Teen—Age Canteens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28 18 39 15.5

Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 12 39 15.5 :

Touch Football . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 23 27 29.5

Trade School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 51 23 38.5

Volleyball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 15 35 19.5

Volunteer Leadership .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 47.5 9 48 5

 

talks about college and other kinds of education,
and about jobs. Negro children were also much
more- interested in plays, singing, folk dancing,
and in talks on boy-girl relations. The percentages
in these cases were roughly double those for the
white children. Thus, ranks for various activities
are sometimes far apart for the two races, al—
though the most popular activities for both races
were hayrides, swimming, bicycling and listening
to records.

This Richmond teen-age survey was a commu—
nity project in every sense of the word and should
furnish inspiration to other communities anxious
to get at the facts about social breakdown in

664 .

today’s youth and what can be done to prevent it.
The project was carried through with the assist-
ance of volunteers from several of the agencies,
the teachers in the classrooms who supervised the
filling out of questionnaires, students and faculty
members in the Sociology and Statistics depart—-
ment of the Richmond Professional Institute and
cooperating state and city offices. The end result W
was accomplished by the individual efforts of these\'.
groups and individuals in the city because they ‘l
were truly interested in obtaining a picture of what
Richmond young people need and want and in dis:—
covering how large a part organized recreation can
play in the life of the teen-age group everywhere:

RECREATION {

RUTH EH LERS
Social Recreation

JANE F A-RWELL
Rural Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation '

Recreation Training Institutes

‘ March and AprilI I947

State of Maryalnd
March 3-7, March 17-28

Las Cruces, New Mexico '
March 3-4

Smithtield, North Carolina
March 18-21

Statesville, North Carolina
March 24—27

Pensacola, Florida
March 10-21

Jacksonville, Florida
March 24-28

La Grange, Georgia
March 31 - April 4

Corpus Christi, Texas
March 17-28

Austin, Texas
March'31 - April 11

Birmingham, Alabama
April 28 - May 9

Danville, Virginia
March 3-7

Chatham, Virginia
March 10-14

St. Paul, Minnesota
April 7-25

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

,1

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

I.

Miss Ethel E. Sammis, State Department of
Education, Baltimore 1, Md.

L. S. Kurtz, State 4-H Club Leader
State College, New Maxico

L. H. Harrill, State 4-H Club Leader
State College Station Raleigh, N. C.

L. -H. Harrill, State 4-H Club Leader
State College Station Raleigh, N. C.

Julian Olsen
Superintendent of Recreation

Nathan L. Mallison
Superintendent of Recreation

Alvin Davis
Callaway Educational Association

W. P. Witt
Superintendent of Recreation

B. S. Sheffield
Acting Director of Recreation

King Sparks, Jr.
Parks and Recreation Board

L. K. Furgurson, Jr.
Superintendent of Recreation

Miss E. Alice Hobday
Home Demonstration Agent, P. O. Box 457

Dorothy T. Grifi‘iths
International Institute, Inc., 183 W. Kellogg Blvd.

A schedule of summer playground training institutes is being worked out. These institutes will be
conducted by Ruth Ehlers, Anne Livingston, and Helen Dauncey, Katherine F. Barker Memorial Field
Secretary on Athletics and Recreation for Women and Girls. Further information will appear in the

April issue of RECREATION.

 

 

Referendums for Recreation

URING I946, citizens of 11 cities in Kansas,

Nebraska, Iowa and South Dakota by vote
declared their belief in recreation and accepted
financial responsibility for it. Here, in brief, are
the facts:

Hutchinson, Kansas-—One mill ($30,000) Recrea—
tion Commission created by School Board. Pro-
gram began January I, 1947.

Lazwcnce, Kansas—One mill ($13,000 levied for
first year) joint school-city Recreation Commis-
sion. Program began January 1, 1947.

Manhattan, Kansas—One mill ($13,000) joint
School-city Recreation Commission. Program
began January I, 1947.

Newton, Kansas—One mill ($10,000) joint school—
city Recreation Commission. Program began

January 1 , 1947.

MARCH 1947

Ottawa, Kansas—One mill ($7,500) joint school—
city Recreation Commission. Program began

January I, 1947.
Atchison, Kansasm—One mill ($11,500).

Omaha, Nebraska voted to amend the city charter
to create an independent Park and Recreation
Board. This board began its work in January
1947, consolidating parks and recreation ser-
vices. In addition, Omaha voted favorably on a
2% million dollar bond issue for recreation.

Council Blujj‘s, I owa—One-half mill ($16,000) to
be supplemented by $10,000 appropriated by the
school board. Recreation Commission. Program

began January 1947.

Sioux Falls, South Dakota—One-half mill ($25,-

 Recreation Commission. Program starts
May 1947.

665

Let Music Swell

Music Wee/('Celebrations in I946 Hold Suggestions for Music
Week Celebrations in I947

BSERVED FOR SOME twenty—three years by
0 schools, churches, clubs and civic organiza-
tions, National Music \Veek is now proving
an equally convenient opportunity for recreation
and community groups to demonstrate their musi-
cal progress and to further their musical plans.
Last spring, recreation oBicials in a dozen or
more of our larger cities seized this occasion to
climax the effort of the preceding-fall and winter
with programs by their vocal and instrumental
ensembles, their dance groups, and their individual
soloists. Nearly always hopes for the future were
sounded, in pleasant accord with evidence of pres-
ent accomplishment and with the result that the
town “opened its eyes” and earmarked the work
for moral and financial support.

Examples—1946

Los Angeles provided one of the best examples
of a Music Week observance under municipal
auspices (the Municipal Art Commission, through
its “Bureau of Music). The leading event of the
seven—day period, a music festival at the Holly-
wood Bowl, presented the combined Greater Los
Angeles Youth Choruses of 700 voices, with
Lauritz Melchior and other guest artists, and an
address by Mayor Bowron. Another outstanding
program with the accent on youth was a concert
by winners of the student-artist competition or—
ganized by the Music Teachers Association of the
city.

It required many columns of print and pictures
in the newspapers to report on the preparations
for Music Week and the programs themselves, for
there was participation of one kind or another in
all sections of the city and among a large number
of groups. A school music festival entitled “Ameri-
ca Sings” was held at the Shrine Civic Auditorium.
The premiere concert by the Employees’ Orchestra
of the City of Los Angeles was held at the City
Hall auditorium. A concert each noon of Music
Week on the City Hall steps was played by the
Police Band, the County Band, and selected bands
from the high schools. There was a combined
women’s chorus, too, from the California Federa-
tion of Music Clubs. But by and large the observ-

666

ance was a held day for youth. It was as if Los
Angeles was saying to the world: “We not only
draw talent to our city, but we develop it among our
own young people too. We do much for music in
our schools, but we see to it also that there shall
be non-school opportunities, and especially oppor-
tunities for the young man and the young woman
in their pOSt—school years.”

Baltimore— to take another of the country’s
largest centers of population—also gave prominent
place to youth in its observance, but with possibly
more attention to the participation of children. The
city has long marked National Music Week with
programs at the Enoch Pratt Public Library, Pea-
body Institute, Maryland Casualty Company, and
in many churches, schools, and recreation centers.
But last spring nearly every school did something
to show its appreciation of the harmonizing power
of music among peoples by arranging programs of
songs, dances, and poetry relating to the life of the
different nationalities in its community. A few had
Latin American programs, with the art department
collaborating in the making of posters, and the
language department in the interpretation of the
life and culture of our “neighbors to the south.”

Highlight of the children’s part in the observ-
ance was a “Children’s Prayer for Peace” pro-
gram the closing Sunday at the Polytechnic Insti-
tute, with numbers by youngsters from the Chinese,
Jewish, Negro, French, Norwegian, Russian and
other colonies in Baltimore, and even a group from
the Turkish colony in nearby Washington, D. C.

Cooperation in the general observance was given _
by the Baltimore Museum of Art, Retail Merchant
Association, music clubs and societies. Leading
events included a concert by the Department of
Recreation Orchestra, a choir festival by the Mary—
land Federation of Music Clubs, and a program
by the Handel Choir. There was an effective
proclamation by Mayor McKelden.

The National Committee recommends these 
proclamations because they help‘ in calling atten- it
tion to local musical resources and the desirability
of extending their benehts to wider circles of the
population.

Chicago for the second time held its Music

RECREATION ‘3

 

 

       
      

au’rograpb of a famous hiH'er wriH'en on
+l1e barrel end are Jthe quali’ry hall-marks
found on no ol'her make of ba’r.

I This famous H 8: B Oval and fire personal

 
   

HIthRItHanRAnsavu

“It’s your assurance
’of the finest”—

 

 

SERVICES
FOR _
THE OPEN

arranged by Laura I. MaHoon
Helen D. Bragdon

For any setting, time or place when worship services are keyed to the spirit of the great
outdoors—at summer assemblies and conferences, week-end retreats, around a campfire,
indoors or out—these programs fill the need.

Leaders perennially seek the distinctive and appropriate worship material such as this
book provides. There are responsive readings, liturgies, and music presented in five
sections.

After being out of print for some years this popular standby of many seasons is available
in two new editions: cloth bound and jacketed, $2.50; with green plastic hinge binding

and flexible cover, $2.00.
jddociafion predd

347 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK l7

MARCH 1947 667

Schulz”
Th“ PROCEEDINGS

of the

ANNUAL CONVENTION
St. Louis' Mo., Aprill I946

American Association for HealthI
Physical Education and
Recreation

Condensations of division meetings, work—
shops, and general assembly addresses on
health, physical education and recreation.

Price [.00

Order from the Association Office

|20l SIXTEENTH STREET. NW
WASHINGTON 6. D. C.

 

CONSTRUCTIVE FUN

Keep ’em

a busy with
' these popular

“Self-Help”

    
   

Simplified Drawing .......................... ..$1.50
Working in Leather ...............  ......... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Wood Working .... .. 1.00
Fundamentals of Clay Modeling ...... .. 1.00
Essentials of Creative Design............ 1.00 -
Simplified Art Anatomy .................. .. 1.00
Figure Drawing Without a Model .... .. 1.00
The Secrets of Cartooning .............. .. 1.00
The Art of Doing Portraits .............. .. 1.00
Oil Painting .................................... .. 1.00
Water Color Painting ...................... .. 1.00
Pastel Painting .......... ..'. ................... .. 1.00
Landscape Painting ........................ .. 1.00
Drawing for Children ...................... .. 1.00
Arts l'r Crafts for Children .............. .. 1.00
Practical Home Decorating .............. .. 1.00

New Titles Constantly Being Added
Send for Complete List of
Adults' and Children’s Art Book:

HOUSE OF LITTLE BOOKS
80 East I lth S’r.‘. NewYork 3. NY.

668

Week observance under the auSpices of its Choral
and Instrumental Music Association, “of which
John Alden Carpenter is president. Cooperating
were the State Street Council, the Chicago Park
District, the Lions Clubs, churches of all denomi—
nations and many prominent musical and educa-
tional groups. Daily outdoor programs, with com-
munity singing at each session, brought enjoy—
ment of good music and the unifying spirit of the
observance to throngs at busy corners. Similar
programs were held in many of the park field
houses and in servicemen’s centers. At the Music
Week conference in Kimball Hall the subjects dis-
cussed included Music in Recreation, Chicago’s
Music Needs, What the Composers Can Do for
Chicago, and Advances in Musical Therapy. This
conference is becoming a force for the city’s musi-
cal development. The chairman last year was Dr.
Hans Rosenwald, Dean, Chicago Musical College
and editor of M usic N e'ws magazine.

The observance in Springfield, Ohio, was less
centralized but relatively as extensive as in Chi-
cago and other large cities. Here the specific
objectives fostered were procurement of musical
instruments for convalescent servicemen, a musi-
cal scholarship fund for talented young people,” and
the promotion of greater interest in the local sym—
phony orchestra concerts for the c‘oming year.
Radio talks, newspaper articles and editorials
helped to impress upon the public the variety and
value of the city’s musical resources. There were
42 news items in the two leading papers, many of
them illustrated. The proclamation issued by Virgil
L. Ballantine, president of the City Commission,
paid warm tribute to the power of music“‘as a
means of comfort, aid and encouragement—yes,
even a language of love and prayer” and as “an
indispensable and realistic factor in accomplishing
the peace and tranquillity for which the whole
world now strives.”

And Also

Features of the Music Week observance in other
large cities were: 5 t. Louis, M o.-—.‘A music festival
organized by Ruth Meyers, Supervisor of Music
and Dancing, Division of Parks and Recreation.
Each center held its own program and then joined
with one or two other centers in a collective pro—
gram.

Alton, I ll.———Observance arranged under cooper-
ative auspices of the local Business and Profes-
sional Women’s Club and the Playground and Rec-
reation Commission. A total of 274 programs were

reported besides many impromptu gatherings.

Durham, N. C .—One civic club sponsored a
music festival to provide scholarships to the N a—

RECREATION

i

 

tional Music Camp. All civic clubs arranged musi-

cal programs.
Greensboro, N. C .--—*Music Week activity re-

sulted in the establishment of a record library and'

listening room in the Greensboro Public Library,
according to a report received from the president
of the Euterpe Club.

Multum in Parvo

It is in the smaller towns, however, that the
main strength of the Music Week movement lies—-
in spite of the accomplishment 'in the larger places.
There are between 2,000 and 3,000 communities
of less than 50,000 population that almost every
year do something really worthwhile to mark the
occasion and to insure that the week will leave its
mark on people’s awareness'of their need for
music. It is diflicult to select among these com-
munities, since so many have unusual and ef-
fective programs, but perhaps Paris, Texas, will
serve as an example, because of its medium size
(19,000) and its long history as a participant.

Paris had no central Music Week committee in
1946, as in previous years, but there was a com-
mittee for the county, and, for the first time, a

  

IIA v: you sear ran 71/15 fktt’ sooner?

JUST OFF THE PRESS—this impor—
tant booklet, chuck full of valuable
facts on getting your High School
Boxing Program underway is yours
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Walsh, it clears up numerous
misconceptions about boxing—espe-
cially valuable to newcomers in the
program.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC, WIS.

—_ Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mots,
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

 

PIoroRIAL PUBLICITY
or YOUR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

EFFECTIVE 0 ECONOMICAL 0 PROFITABLB

PICTURE POST CARDS

' SOUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos
Write For Free Samples

ARTVUE POST CARD COMPANY
225 Fifth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

MARCH 1947

  
 

 

Negro committee. The observance began with an
interdenominational hymn festival, led by the joint
chairs of several churches, but open also to all
singers in the city. Schools, radio station, news-
paper, service clubs, music club and public library
worked together with a remarkable degree of co-
ordination. Thus, the presentation of excerpts
from an operetta by a school choral club provided
the entertainment for the P.T.A. meeting, the high
school band gave a demonstration for the Rotary
Club, and the public library included in its special
display of books "on music a scrapbook history of
the local Music Study Club. Posters submitted in
a contest for upper grade children were hung in
store windows, and awards to the winners were
memberships in the Civic Music Association.

A Letter of Suggestions is prepared each year
by the National Music Week Committee, whose
headquarters are with the National Recreation As-
sociation at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York. A
copy of the letter is obtainable free on request, as
are also sample copies of mayors’ proclamations
and editorials. Music Week always begins the first
Sunday in May and falls this year May 4—11.

   

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

  
   
   

 
 

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking.
A beautiful shoe designed for profession-
als and for amateurs who know the value
of a good shoe.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Oliicial

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 
       
   
   
   
     
   
       
    

  
 

669

WORLD
AT

PLAY

A THOUSAND dollars has
started Fayette, Missouri,
on the road to celebra-
tion. A doctor gave the city the money as a me-
morial. It was used to buy playground equipment.
The city agreed to add enough money to improve
their park in other ways. The work was done and
a ceremony dedicating the park was held. Then the
doctor had another idea. He wrote another check
for $1,000 and proposed that the community have
a birthday party every year and that everybody,
young and old, give the town a useful gift such as
books for the library. Children are urged to earn
their°own money and not ask Dad to pay for their
gifts. The approximate date of the birth of the
city will be determined and the whole town will
participate in a celebration every year on that day.

Happy Birthday

NOT LONG AGO there were

two state meetings of

recreation workers, one
in California, one in South Carolina. It is sig-
nificant that there were present at the first meet-
ing 300 recreation pe0ple, while 200 came together
in South Carolina.

Numbers Talk

0 Y . "
Dancmg oungsters mg youngsters brought

success to a novel inno-.-
vation in the Minneapolis, Minnesota, playground
. program. A folk dance day event was prepared
by children from the Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls,
Y.VV.C.A., the school board, settlement houses and
the park playgrounds. Each of the participating
groups gave a demonstration dance after, which
all the children danced en masse the Ace of Dia—
monds, Bleking, Schottische, and the Virginia
Reel. From the enthusiasm for the initial experi-
ment, the folk dance day event may deve10p into a
real folk dance festival with authentic national
costumes and full instrumental accompaniment for
the lively dance routines.

670

SOME 600 whirling, twirl- i

 

Print by Gedge Harman

 

AT THE recent election
in Baltimore voters ap‘
proved a charter amend—
ment combining the park, recreation and music
work at Baltimore under a new Recreation and
Park Board. This amendment was submitted with
a number of other amendments, all of which were-
apparently considered as a group by the voters
and approved by a substantial majority.

Charter Amendment

COLUMBIA, South Caro-
lina, is turning its atten—
tion to preschool chil-
dren. At each of I 3 parks, very small children find:
leaders and programs specially selected to fit small.
needs and small interests. The object of the pro—
gram is “to help a little child grow in body, in
mind, and in. spirit, in such a way that, he easin

For Tots

'finds himself in the complicated pattern of life.”

RECREATION won a heavy
vote of confidence from
citizens of Providence,
Rhode Island, at the No--
vember fifth election. A majority of 4 to I en-
do‘rsed the allotment of a $100,000,000 bond issue—
to be used for the improvement‘nof present play-
grounds and recreation centers and for the develop--
ment of new facilities, such as swimming pools.

Recreation Gets
the Votes

HOUSEWIVES took to the:

Awalkmg Spree open road. As members.

a".

of the Minneapolis, Min— 

nesota Park Board Walking Club, the women took
weekly hikes through various sections of the park.
Under the leadership of a volunteer worker, the-
club offered 34 events during the year and a total
of 325 feminine hikers participated.

RECREATION

ii.

. 5*
Vi

Thriving Center—Use of the LeGrand Home
in Tyler, Texas, as a community center and mu-
seum proved very successful in its first year of
operation. Four thousand seven hundred eighty-
one pe0p1e have visited the museum which contains
all of the personal belongings of two Tyler families.
A total of 10,881 have used the community center.
The plan of permitting use of the building on a
reservation basis has been very popular with clubs,
church groups, school and civic organizations.

Flying Squadrons—Organization of “flying
squadrons” at various Jefferson County, Kentucky,
play centers was one of the features planned for
the fall and winter season. Squadrons, composed
of experts in community play direction and lead—
ers of recreation, are prepared to provide an eve-
ning of recreation for churches, clubs, or other
county organizations that may request such ser-
vices. The leaders are trained in music, games,
folk dances, singing, stunts and various programs
that can be adapted .to use by any organization.
Each squadron was assigned to serve a particular
area, but the plan was elastic enough to allow
them to serve any community in the county.

National Resources Council of America—In
October, 1946, a number of individuals met at
Mammoth Cave National Park and organized the
National Resources Council of America. Kenneth
Reid, executive secretary of the Izaak Walton
League of America, states that the purpose of the
Council includes the establishment of a means for
exchange of information and methods of c00pera-
tion among conservation and scientitic organiza-
tions of the nation. It is not to be a policy-making
group. The first chairman of the Council is Dr.
Alfred C. Redheld, and the secretary is C. R.
Gutermuth, of the Wildlife Management Insti-
tute, Washington, D. C. The Council plans to
meet annually.

Supreme Court Decision — Last December
the Supreme Court of North Carolina rendered a
decision holding that recreation is not a “neces-
sary” public expense and that tax funds cannot be
expended for recreation except on approval by a
majority of qualified voters at a referendum elec—
tion. The National Recreation Association is act-
ing to secure a clarification of the decision and an
interpretation of its implications by outstanding
legal authorities. The cities of North Carolina plan
to continue their public recreation programs, ap-

propriating the costs from non-tax municipal
revenues.

MARCH 1947

Conference—The Eleventh Annual Recrea—
tion Conference will be held at Massachusetts
State College, Amherst, Massachusetts on March
28 and 29. Separate sectional meetings will in-
clude demonstrations, talks, and discussions on
archery, camping, community recreation planning,
nature, winter sports and other phases of recrea-
tion.

A Ten-Acre Gift—The ten—acre playground

which the Elks Lodge of Grand Forks, North
Dakota, presented to the Grand Forks park board
will be developed sometime in the future.

First Name in Trampolining
presents

MODEL 5000-T
The Original-Advanced

TRAMPOLINE*

*Nome TRAMPOLINE Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

Improved—Refined by Ten Years
DESIGN. TESTS and USE in Gyms and

Armed Forces—at Y's. Pools.
Camps and Beaches

FOLDS READILY o EAs|LY MOVED
Now AVAILABLE at 5209-00

Complete—£03. Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
200A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

      
   
     
       
         
    
 
    

inedt TRUPHIES & AWARDS

For All Major Sports

BEAUTIFUL
PRIZE CUP

New design with
graceful, classic
lines. Lustrous in
golden Sun-Ray
finish. Mounted on
polished, ebony-
like base. Stands
13” high. No. 2311.
each . . . . “$14.50

Write Dept. R for Free Illustrated Catalog

EW N w. LANE Co.

CHICAGO l. M.

 

BOWLING BALI. CHARM

And other quality,
individual prizes
and awards for
every major sport
are available.

 
 

671

Books Received

 

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Book of Indian Crafts and Costumes, The, by Bernard S.
Mason. A. S. Barnes and Co., New York. $3.00.

Camps and'Cottages, by Charles D. White. Thomas Y.
Crowell Co., New York. $3.00.

Child’s Adventure in Drawing, A, by Mary Black Diller.
House of Little Books, New York. $1.00.

Design and Sew, by Mariska Karasz. J. B. Lippincott Co.,
Philadelphia. $2.00.

Drawing the Friendly Princess, by Madge Easton Erving.
MSR Publications, New York. $1.00.

Elementary Hand Craft Projects, by D. C. Blide, State

’ Teachers College, Minot, N. D.

E verybody’s Handicraft Handbook. Progress Press, Wash-
ington, D. C. $2.00.

Fun with Plastic, by Joseph Leeming. J. B. Lippincott
Co., Philadelphia. $2.00.

Gifts Children Can Draw and Make, by Anna Reine.
Epworth Publishing Co., New York. $1.00.

How to Draw Horses for Commercial Art, by John Jel—
vlico. MSR Publishers, Inc., New York. $1.00.

It’s Fun to Make a Book, by Anne Kramer. E. P. Dutton
and Co., New York. $1.00.

Junior Artists’ ABC’s of Drawing, by Charles X. Carlson.
Melior Books, New York. $1.00.

Little Tots, This is the Way to Draw, by Charlotte-

Young. House of Little Books, New York. $1.00.

Modern Metalcraft, by John L. Feirer. The Manual Arts
Press, Peoria, 111. $3.50.

Painting for Beginners, by J an Gordon. Garden City Pub-
lishing Co., New York. $1.98.

Toy Boats to Make at Home, by Joseph Leeming. D.
Appleton-Century Co., New York. $2.00.

Wonders in Wood, by E. M. Wyatt. Bruce Publishing
Co., Milwaukee, Wis. $.75.

Young Artists’ Drawing Club, by Ruth M. Kreps. House
of Little Books, New York. $1.00.

CHILDREN

Christmas Carols. Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

Night Before Christmas, The, by Clement C. Moore.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

Scuffy the T ugboat and His Adventures Down the River,

by Gertrude Crampton. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $.25.

Singing Children of the Sun, by Thurlow Lieurance.
Theodore Presser Company, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. $.35.

Singing Games for Children, by Alice P. Hamlin and
Margaret G. Guessford. Willis Music Co., Cincin-
nati, Ohio. $1.00.

HEALTH

Administration of Health and Physical Education, The,
by Jesse Feiring Williams and Clifford Lee Brownell.
W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. $3.00:

Health Education in Rural Schools and Communities,
by Nina B. Lamkin. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.50.

HOBBIES

Speed Camera, by E. E. Tompkins. G. T. Foulis and
Company, Ltd., London, England. 10/6 net.

672

  

A complete guide ,
for the puppeteer

    

Illustrated with 69 full page drawings

By MARJORIE BATCHELDER

Associate Professor of Fine Arts, Ohio State University

HERE is a book which fills a long-felt need for a com-

plete manual in the field of puppetry—a book that will
be good for years to come: a completely up-to-date hand-
book that brings together with encyclopedic thoroughness
the technical knowledge of many puppeteers and writers on
the puppet theatre as a means of livelihood, an educational
tool, an art form, and a novelty in advertising and television.
The scope of THE PUPPET THEATRE HANDBOOK is sumciently
wide to make it an invaluable guidebook for professional
puppeteers, hobbyists, teachers and occupational therapists.

You will find in THE PUPPET THEATRE HANDBOOK thorough
and specific advice on every phase of planning and produc-
ing a puppet show. Puppet construction and manipulation
are dealt with in detail, with valuable information on how to
construct puppets of various types that look professional and
work smoothly. There are chapters on puppet playwriting
and staging, costume design, stages and scenery, lighting,
properties, and special effects. Infor-
mation on puppet books, materials
and sources of supply is also included.

THE PU-PPET THEATRE HANDBOOK is
illustrated throughout with 69 full-
page drawings and diagrams by
Douglas Anderson.

Paul McPharlin, Publications Chair-

man of The Puppeteers of America,
says of THE PUPPET THEATRE HAND-
BOOK:

“Though scores of books about puppets
have appeared during the past twenty
years, this one, I can honestly say, is the
most comprehensive of all, a whole pup-
pet library condensed into one volume.”

READ IT 10 DAYS
F R E E

MAIL THIS COUPON NOW

'v‘rw‘rv'

HARPER tr BROTHERS, 637 Madison Ave., New York 22

’ Please send me a copy of THE PUPPET THEATRE HANDBOOK.
Within ten days I will remit $3.75, plus postage, or return the

’ pays postage; return privilege guaranteed.

’ Name .................................................................... ..
. Address .......................................................................... ...

sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss emu-“om

TABLE OF
CONTENTS

The Puppet Theatre
and Its Uses

Planning the Puppet
Show

PUppet Construction

Costume Design and
Construction

Puppet Stages

Scenery, Lighti ,
Properties on
- Special Effects

Ploywriting and
Puppet Plays

Producing the
Puppet Show

Bibliographies

Supplementary
Materials

Notes

 

hook undamaged. D Check here if you enclose $3.75, publisher ‘

1
I

----------------------------------- nan

. City ........................................................................... .. State ............................. ..60038
“‘A“u---“-A-A

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

The Penguin Hoyle

Edited by Albert H. Morehead and Geoffrey Mott Smith.
Penguin Books, Inc., New York. $.25.
WHEN EDMOND HOYLE published his rule book for Whist,
Quadrille, Piquet, Chess, and Backgammon in 1743
‘ he started a thing whose end is not yet. The latest volume
to which the Hoyle approach tO the science Of games is
applied lists hundreds Of games never dreamed of in his
gameology. You’ll find the rules of the game listed for
everything from Accordion tO Yacht—and all for the
nominal cost of a quarter.

Rural Handicrafts in the United States

By Allen Eaton and Lucinda Crile. U. S. Department of
Agriculture. Miscellaneous Publications N0. 610. $.20.
HIS PUBLICATION points to pertinent facts related to
rural arts showing their growth and their economic,
social, educational, recreational, aesthetic and therapeutic

values. Rural arts, its importance and uses are clearly
dehned.

The findings of a rural art study of 2,969 counties
shows what has been done and supplies information for
thought as to what needs to ‘be done. Included in the
study are answers to:

Number of peOpIe engaged in rural arts
Purposes for their interest

Materials used

Type of handcrafts yielding largest cash incoine
Exhibitions conducted

Types Of agencies giving assistance

Greatest needs

The National Rural Arts Exhibition held in Washing-
ton, D. C., is summarized to show its value in intensifying
interest in rural arts.

The most valuable contribution made by this publication
is in bringing together concrete information as to what
is going on in rural handcrafts as a recreational feature
as well as an economic one, that art is more than paint-
ing’ and sculpture—that it is “just the best way Of doing
something that needs to be done,” and that emphasis is
being given to excellent craftsmanship and original de-

signing.

The Golden Bible

Simon and Schuster, Inc., New York. $2.50.

THE GOLDEN BIBLE is a companion piece to the Golden

Dictionary and the ,Golden Encyclopedia. Based on the
King James, version of the Old Testament, the familiar
stories have been selected and arranged by Elsa Jane
Werner and illustrated in color and in black and white
'by Feodor Rojankovsky. The arranger, by the way, has
done an excellent job of simplifying the words of the
text without losing its flavor or essential rhythm.

MARCH 1947

Stories From the West

Bélhldsgrion Belden Cook. Silver Burdett CO., New York.

IF YOU LIKED Children from the East and North and
Children from the S outh, reviewed in recent issues of
RECREATION, you will probably want this latest addition
to the Children of the U. S. A. series. In this volume the
author includes a story from each of the western states
and one each from Alaska, the Hawaiian Islands, Guam
and the Philippines.

The Puppet Theatre Handbook

By Marjorie Batchelder. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $3.75.

T IS GOOD to be able to announce a book so practical as

this one. Puppeteers everywhere will welcome it, for it
is an exhaustive study of all the many phases of pup-
peteerin-g. The book’s eight chapters explore the basic
types Of puppet construction; costume and design; stages
and the scenery, lighting, and Special effects that make
the stage a fitting background to puppet action; the
choice Of already prepared plays and the writing of new
ones; production. There are, in addition, excellent appen-
dices—bibliographies and comment on supplementary
materials and where tO get them. The illustrations are
many and detailed.

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, President

JOHN G. WINANT, First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSiE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KiRBv, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEM IS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH. Englewood, N: J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore. .

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUM MER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York,  Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, 1\. Y.

MRS. THOMAS A. EDISON, West Orange, N. J.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, F itchburg, Mass.
MRS. MELVILLE H. I-IASKELL, Tucson, Ariz.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. 'Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLI KEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, WoodbuiytL N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. _. _
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

‘REDERICK M. WARBURO, New York, N. Y.
JOHN G. WINANT, Concord,.N. H.

STANLEY WOODWARD, Washington, D. C.

673

674

MONEY ISN ’r

EVER mil/Ne?»

 

_.I'  (0R {g If ,7 )

4 ‘3‘ I. “A'

HAT do you want

to save up a lot
of money 'for? You’ll
never need the stuff.

Why, just think of

all the wonderful, wonderful things you can do
without money. Things like—well, things like—

On second thought, you’d better keep on sav-
ing, chum. Otherwise you’re licked.

 

For instance, how are you ever going to build

, 7_ Edema; my DOU6H :2

    

 

that Little Dream House, without a trunk full
of moolah? You think the carpenters are going
to work free? Or the plumbers? Or the archi-
tects? Not those lads. They’ve been around.
They’re no dopes.

And how are you going to send that kid of
yours to college, without the folding stuff?

Maybe you think he can work his way through
by playing the flute.

If so, you’re crazy. (Only three students have
ever worked their way through college by play-
ing the dute. And they had to stop eating for
four years.)

a, BY GROUCHO MARX

And how are you going to do that world-
traveling you’ve always wanted to do? Maybe
you think you can stoke your way across, or
scrub decks. Well, that’s no good. I’ve tried it.
It interferes with shipboard romances.

So——all seriousness aside—you’d better keep
on saving, pal.

Obviously the best way is by continuing to
buy U. S. Savings Bonds—through the Payroll
Plali.

 

They’re safe and sound. Old Uncle Sam per-

sonally guarantees your investment. And he
never fobbed off a bum I.O.U. on anybody.

You get four bucks back for every three you
put in. And that ain’t hay, alfalfa, or any other
field-grown product.

  

Millions of Americans—sm cookies all—
have found the Payroll Plan the easiest and best
Way to save. .

So stick with the Payroll Plan, son—and you
can’t lose.

SAVE 77/: 91.9! mm. 807 max BONDS moi/6w PA ma SAW/16$

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

RECREATION

