    

Recreation
in

:deral Agencies

Price 35 Cen+s

 

RECREATION
in jeéruary 7  7

 

Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation. 596

Editorial, by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . 569

Recreation in Extension Service Recreation in National Park Service. . . . 598

U.S.D.A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 571
Recreation in U. S. Office of Education. . 615

Recreation in Fish and Wildlife Service. 580
Services Available Through the National

Recreation in the National Forests . . . . . . 587 Recreation Association . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

 

In the June issue of RECREATION were published articles giving part of the information which
had been brought together by the National Recreation Association as to what is being done by state

government bureaus in the field of recreation.

In this issue is published material on several of the federal agencies making the mOst important
present peacetime contribution to recreation. These articles are limited in length to what could be pub

lished in a single monthly issue, and give only a fraction of what is recorded.

An effort has been made to print the most significant facts on what these agencies are doing.

without burdening the reader wtih a mass of statistics on the details of the mechanics, financial opera-
tions and other behind-the-scene activities which make these services effective.

Both the articles on state government recreation and federal recreation are parts of a longer,
more comprehensive study of what is available in recreation today, what is needed and desired that is
not now available. The place of the federal government in recreation cannot well be faced without con-
sideration of what is available in the locality, in the county, in the states. One cannot well face what

is needed without listing what now is being done.

Perhaps no movement in modern times has had a more steady and rapid development than the
recreation movement during the last forty years. Yet those who know the movementbest, know that
what has happened is nothing compared to what will happen in the next forty years, and facts are needed

to give a basis for wise long-time planning that shall have no other purpose than what is best for the men.
women and children of America.

 

RECREATION is published monthly by and in the interests ‘of the National Recreation Association, formerly named Play-
ground and Recreation Association of America, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.: is on file in public libraries
and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12. 1929, at the Post
Office in New York, New York. under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1947. bi] the National Recreation Association. Incorporated

PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
VOLUME FORTY, NUMBER ELEVEN

7.
‘l
{it

The Federal Government in Peace’rime

Recreation

VEN those who know most about recreation
may well be surprised at the extent of what
is being done now by our Federal Govern-

ment. Not much has been done in recent years
to tell the story.

Rural and Small Communities

Several federal agencies long established have
a clear record of valuable service to local com-
munities through state government bureaus.

The Extension Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture has maintained a
recreation program of a very high order. This
Service is carried on cooperatively by the federal,
state and local governments and the rural people.
Great emphasis is placed on helping rural people
appraise their recreation needs and, themselves.
organize to meet them. The development of rec-
reation and leisure time programs always has
been recognized as one of the pressing needs of
rural people.

In 1945 Extension helped 26,000 rural com-
munities improve their recreation facilities. It
also aided 35,000 communities in planning and
carrying forward a comprehensive recreation and
community life program. Close to 6,000 com—
munities were assisted in improving their library
facilities. To give leadership to this recreation
work, Extension gave 68,496 man days in 1945
and trained over 100,000 voluntary recreation
leaders. Conferences of rural ministers have been
held to assist with the organization of rural and
small community recreation.

In addition to these rural community recrea—'

tion programs, all Extension sponsored 4-H and
home demonstration programs emphasize recre-
ation and the need for constructive use of leisure
time.

Congress supports Extension through an an-
nual appropriation of over twenty-eight million
dollars, with very substantial increases over a
period of years. This far—reaching recreation
program as sponsored by Extension picks up
momentum each year. It goes on without much
recognition and publicity.

Much has been said and written about the
utter neglect and need for developing recreation
programs for rural communities but few know
the facts and recognize the great work now
being done by this one agency—Extension.

Schools

Much of preparation for wise use of leisure
and the training in fundamental skills for rec-
reation activities throughout life must be given
in the schools——-—public and parochial. The
United States Government has established a
United States Office of Education which already
works on this problem and is ready to do more.
This Oflice of Education is and probably will

continue to be the designated federal agency to

. work with the state government school bureaus.

Parks

For years from the days of Stephen T.
Mather the National Park Service has had an
outstanding enviable reputation. Congressional
legislation has directed this agency not only to
administer national parks but also to give cer-
tain definite service to state government park
groups and others. The parks in localities have
a large part to play in recreation which no one
can take away from them. Their place is es-
tablished. Various state park bureaus have re
ported the help they have been receiving from
the National Park Service and the extent to
which they look to it for leadership.

Forests

Much could be said about the local com—
munity forests, the state forestry bureaus and
the way these state bureaus look to the United

States Forestry Service for leadership.

Fish and lVildlife

Already state groups serve localities with
reference to fish and wildlife and have their
federal Fish and Wildlife Service to which they

turn for leadership.

569

Federal Inter-Agency
Committee on Recreation

The long established federal bureaus active
in recreation, not satisfied with what they are
now doing and planning to do, have banded
together in a self-organized, self-planned co-
operative undertaking to put united power be-
hind what is being done, to study. the whole
picture, to see what the gaps are, to try to
determine what further needs to be done.
A tried, experienced, trained local recreation
superintendent known to the entire recreation
field as an effective worker has been chosen as
their full-time executive. This Federal Inter—
Agency Committee on Recreation has made it
clear that it does not desire to duplicate or
take over the work of any existing agency,
public or private.

Secretary of'the Interior, Hon. J. A. Krug.
has well said the attitude must not be restrictive,
defensive, but constructive, forward looking.
ready with courage to face what needs to be
done

Budget Bureau

The Bureau of the Budget has given clear-
ance to this program of cooperative federal
leadership as "being in accord with the plans
of the President of the United States."

Certain other inter-agency committees have
deve10ped sizable cooperative programs as they
have discovered special projects which needed to
be carried on which could not as well be carried
on by any one existing group. It is reported

that one such inter—agency committee has a bud-
get of about $260,000.

Roots

What is developed by representatives of such
established groups with long experience is apt

to have roots, to be built on knowledge of what"

can wisely be done in working through state
groups. These federal bureaus are accustomed
to working with the state government bureaus
in the same fields, and in general with few ex-
ceptions. the four National Recreation Associa-
tion field men working with state leaders have
found the heads of state bureaus happy over

FEBRUARY I947

 

570

these relationships. These relationships are es—
tablished and recognized and there has been no
thought of suggesting any change.

Present W ark Effective

. Many know the long established federal
bureaus that work in the recreation field, know
that they have deep, strong roots, the result of
years of growth. The criticisms that have been
made against many of the federal bureaus have,
not much been leveled at these particular
agencies. Many know the fine spirit in which
the workers in these agencies approach their
tasks. No one has suggested that workers in the I
best private agencies have a finer spirit.

Study Continuing

The National Recreation Association is con-
tinuing its study of the needs of the recreation
movement in this country. Despite the fact that
the National Recreation Association has worked
with these bureaus for years "and has spent
hundreds of thousands of dollars on special
projects requested by certain of them, the Asso-
ciation has recently expended several thousand
dollars in studying the work of these federal
bureaus and their present plans, and as a result

rof the study so far wishes to bear testimony as

to the apparent present general value of the
work as far as it now goes, the fine spirit in
which the work is carried on, the willingness to
cooperate, the readiness to face new needs. Of
course no agencies are one hundred percent in
effectiveness.

There is no question that the bureaus re-
ported on in this issue have the machinery and
the equipment to do much more, that their past
record 'of achievement justines confidence and
the giving of increased resources for the exten-
sion of their present work. Undoubtedly they
do need to listen to suggestions as to additional
work which the American people desire.

Citizens of the United States can well be
proud of what their national government is now
doing in recreation through these bureaus, but
still larger tasks are open to them for the
future.

HOWARD BRAUCHER. ~~

\.

ff

2‘
RECREATION

Recreation in Extension Service
U. S. Department of Agriculture

ELATIVELY FEW PEOPLE who live in our large
R cities fully understand what is meant by the
C00perative Extension Service as it is estab-
lished in the United States Department of Agri-
culture. Many recreation executives and most
recreation workers do not appreciate the vast
amount of recreation promoted by this gigantic
organization for many of the 14,338,240 families
that make up rural
America!

Extension work, as it
is officially named, is
designed to improve
agriculture, homemak-
ing and rural life in
general through an edu-
cational program mutu- .
ally agreed upon by gov-
ernment and the people
themselves. Millions of
Americans receive very
little formal education
and Extension Service
reaches thousands of
these people who work
and live in rural
America.

Extension—A Flexible Broad Program

The director of Extension Service, M. L. VVil-
son, has stated in Thirty Y ears of Extension Work
that “. . . extension work has had a high degree
of flexibility in adapting itself to the needs and
problems of local people. The work was begun
primarily to help farmers help themselves in the
realization of their practical needs.” He goes on
to point out how the program has broadened and
how it has become recognized all over the world
“as a force that plays an important part in shaping
the cultural directions, material progress, and the
personal destiny of millions of our rural people.”

Because recreation and sociability are among
the requirements of normal living, it is only nat-
ural that they have been a part of local extension
programs and meetings from the beginning of the
Extension Service. This is especially true of 4-H
Club and home demonstration work.

FEBRUARY 1947

 

"549“ m,  - “lg-2;. - '.

U.S.D.A. Extension Service Photo

4-H Club camp

The Three Main Types of Extension Service Work

The Extension Service carries on work in three
main fields of interest: (a) agriculture for farmers
(b) home economics for rural women, and ( c)
4-H Club work for rural boys and girls. As stated
in a recent bulletin: “Extension Service makes the
results 'of Department research and service for
practical farm application available to farmers, in

cooperation with State
agricultural colleges,
through grants-in-aid
and other means; coor-
dinates the c00perative
extension work of the
Department and the col-
leges in agriculture and
home economics includ-
ing county agent, home
demonstration, and 4-H
Club work; carries. on
general educational
work relative to food
production and conser-
vation; is responsible
for functions relating to
intra-state recruitment

and placement of farm
labor; establishes county committees to render

advisory assistance to veterans and others wishing
to engage in agricultural pursuits.”

Extension is organized on the federal level, the

state level and the county level to assist in these
three fields of interest.

 

 

5
,4
,__  ,, wig-j

The Extent of Program Influence

In the 70,044 rural communities that reported in
1944, 7,435,781 rural families were influenced by
some phase of extension work. While extension
services are primarily thought of as being estab-
lished for rural people, urban pe0p1e may find
them available in several ways. The radio, press,
magazines and newspapers bring the latest develop-
ments in homemaking and farming to all Ameri-
cans. Bulletins on agricultural and homemaking
subjects may be had by calling at any County Ex-
tension Service office.

571

In villages and towns under 2,500 population,
extension services are often given through home-
making and 4-H Club activities, sometimes supple-
mented with a victory garden and a poultry rais-
ing emphasis. The only limitation upon such ser-
vices is lack of funds, personnel and time. The
initiative in establishing new services in new com-
munities comes from the community desiring such
services.

Recreation in Extension Work

Recreation activities carried on by rural people
through their participation in extension work
include such things as folk games and dancing,
drama, choral groups and community singing,
handcrafts, athletics, camping,‘family recreation,
wildlife study, and reading; the development of
county or community recreation centers is en-
couraged by extension officials and several other
types of recreation facilities are installed for the
benefit of all the people. Some of these activities
are carried on as special extension projects. Rec-
reation and sociability permeate many of the other
regular activities of the programs through the
community suppers, singing, athletics and other
festivities that in many counties go along with
annual meetings, picnics, fairs, and the like.

The role of Extension Service in recreation is
primarily in the fields of organization and lead-
ership training. About 18 states now have full-
time recreation specialists on their state extension
staffs, and a number of other states have workers
who devote part of their time to recreation organi-
zation and leadership training. The main job of
these full and part-time recreation specialists is to
lead rural people to an appreciation of recreation
and help them wisely use increasing leisure time,
to help state and county extension workers include
recreation in their regular‘extension projects and
club programs, and to help rural people develop
recreation opportunities and facilities in their own
counties and communities. The specialists accom-
plish this latter objective by helping local leaders
and groups appraise their own local recreational
needs and resources—and work out projects and
facilities for meeting their needs. The specialists
also help by holding training meetings or institutes
where 4-H Club leaders, school teachers, ministers,
and recreation chairmen of local groups can go to
learn how to conduct games and develop recreation
projects for their own local organizations.

Recreational Accomplishments via Statistics

To give the reader some appreciation of the
large recreation programs involved in Extension

572

Service, certain statistical information will be con-‘
sidered. These statistics are partly taken from
Extension Activities and Accomplishments in
1944. They give some idea of the number of facili-
ties and communities assisted in their recreation.
programs. When reading these statistics it should!
be remembered that home demonstration agents,.
agricultural agents, 4-H Club agents, all their
assistant agents, and many adult and youthful vol-
unteer leaders working together made these ac—
complishments possible. So much of the good-
work done in Extension Service is the result of
harmonious teamwork on the part of the paid'
staff working with volunteers that it would be“:
most difficult to segregate and list exactly which:
accomplishment should be credited to 4-H agents.
and their staff or to home demonstration agents!
and their staff members—~—so no such attempt isr
made. Some 1945 figures are added to the 1944;
report, but no indication of the number of counties
reporting in 1945 is included. There are over 3,000:
counties in the United States.

Counties

' Number Reporting Number
Recreation and Community Life 1944 1944 1945
Number of families assisted
in improving home rec- '
reation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .433,559 1,860 451,280I
Number of communities as- '
sisted in improving com-
munity recreational facili-
ties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 28,290 1,663 ' 26,372:
Number of community
groups assisted with or—
ganizational problems,
programs of. activities, 0r
meeting programs . . . . .. 44,818 1,917 42,0181
Number of communities ' '
assisted in establishing:
Club or Community
House . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906 369 967i
Permanent Camp  259 60 296:
Community Rest Rooms. 355 92 4561

Number of communities as-
sisted in providing li- 1
brary facilities . . . . . . . .. 4,920 627 5,7391
Number of school or other 5
community grounds im- 1

proved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,924 736 6,673 

 

County Agents Emphasize Recreation

As stated before, extension-work is carried onq
in approved projects. In 1944, 2,053 of the 3,000
counties reported that agents devoted 57,903 days,‘
and state workers 3,034 days to recreation and
community life projects. This work was conducted!
in 34,603 communities by 92,414 voluntary locall
leaders or committeemen who assisted. These,
formal projects do not give a clear idea of the
amount of recreation enjoyed in extension activi-ii
ties since so much of the fun and recreation comesé
more than incidentally, at meetings, camps and at

other places entirely outside the formal recreation
projects. '

 

\
’ RECREATION

Volunteer Leadership

Under the supervision of the county agent or
his assistant, local community volunteer leaders
have charge of extension projects. In 1944, over
1,100,000 volunteer workers devoted some time
regularly to extension work across the country.

To give the reader an idea of how dependent
extension programs are upon the work of volun-
teers, we need only to note that youth are led in
their 4—H Club activities by 167,623 of these vol-
unteer leadersnchosen for their interest, tolerance,
patience and ability in leading young people. The
better leaders are devoted to their opportunities;
they cleverly and adroitly lead youth into greater
loyalties for the worthy 'values in life, moral prin-
ciples and Spiritual ideals.

Training Volunteers Heavy Staff Responsibility

Since Extension Service at the family and neigh-
borhood level has to depend entirely upon volun-
teer leaders, much of the extension literature and
many of the Extension Service Review articles

discuss the many ways and means of training that
leadership. Voluntary leaders are given training
in all kinds of subject matter; lessons in the fields
of animal husbandry, crops, homemaking and rec-
reation, and then they take these lessons back to
the pe0ple in their own neighborhoods and com-
munities. The burden of training these million
farmers, women and' older youth as leaders falls
largely upon the county agents, state agents, sub—
ject matter specialists and others. They also help
to keep the state and county people informed on
all the latest practices recommended by educa-
tional, psychological, economic, and other scientilic
or professional experts. .The National Recreation
Association assigned specialists to assist the De-
partment of Agriculture and the State Colleges of
Agriculture in the training of 78,628 volunteer
leaders over a 14 year period from 1927 to 1941.
There were 1,785 training institutes held at 701
centers located in all 48 states. Experts taught
music, drama, arts, crafts and social recreation
activities among many other subjects covered..

4-H Club members at lunch, University of Indiana campus

FEBRUARY 1947

 

U.S.D.A. Extension Service Photo
573

Organization of 4-H Club Work
Since recreation in extension work falls quite
naturally and largely in the programs of the 4-H
Club and home demonstration work, it is to these
and their recreation activities that we now turn to
explain somewhat more fully.

Nature at 4-H Clubs

A 4-H Club is a democratic organization in
which the club members organize themselves into
a group, elect their own officers, and plan their
own local programs of work with the guidance of
an adult leader.

Clubs everywhere are urged to provide proper
social and recreational features in these programs.
Leaders are taught to coach and lead their mem-
bers—not boss,them ; to set the pace—not just
assign tasks; to show how, to inspire and to gain
the respect of club members by leading an exem-
plary life themselves.

Clubs Organized by County Agents

4-H Clubs are organized and conducted under
the immediate supervision of the county extension
agents who are cooperatively employed by the
Department of Agriculture, the State Colleges of

Agriculture and the county governments. Some'

counties have assistant farm or home agents or
4-H Club agents who devote their full time to 4-H
work. '

4-H Club work gets hold of rural boys and girls
while they are young and like to play; their minds
are plastic and they accept guidance as needed.
The importance of the home is stressed in their
education and they develop rural leadership and
learn how to work with others; they are taught
- how to do helpful things and in their play to
demonstrate the qualities of good sportsmanship.

4-H Club Memberships and Meetings
Memberships Show Growth

In 1945 there were 701,531 boys and 889,067
girls 10 to 20 years of age, for a total of 1,590,598
enrolled in 4-H Clubs throughout the United
States, Puerto Rico and the territories of Alaska
and Hawaii. Today, there are 1,700,000 4-H mem-
bers. There are" 10,000,000 former 4-H Club
members and during the war 1,000,000 with 4-H
training were in the armed forces. There are
between 12,000,000 and 13,000,000 rural boys and
girls of club age in the United States. According
to Chief of Extension Service M. L. Wilson,
there are about 320,000 youths between the ages
of 15 and 20 in the 4-H Clubs alone—“which rep-
resents the largest number of older young people
belonging to any organization in this country.” The

574

national goal for 4-H Club membership has been
set at 3,200,000 by 1950. '

Youths' Urge to Play Recognized I

Whenever a group of boys or girls get together
for any purpose, those‘ experienced in dealing with
them know how short is the “fixed” attention
span. They also know wherever formal learning :

situations are set up there must be frequent respite

from tensions that develop. This relief is most
easily found in play of some sort. Recreation is

more than incidental in 4—H camp‘life; it is one

of the main issues.

Wide Scope of Recreation

In scanning the attractive 4-H Club literature
from the various states, the reader will be amazed
to note the scope of recreation activities recom-
mended to clubs and no doubt used in many com-
munities. One state names archery, badminton,
dancing, newcomb, soccer, speedball, swimming,
tennis and volley ball as being fine activities for
their 4-H Clubs. Dramatics and pageants are fre-
quently mentioned in the state literature. Plays
are often based on homemaking and agricultural
practices though not always. Club members find
many opportunities for self-expression and crea-
tive thinking and invention.

Nature Study Interests

As would be expected, leaders capitalize upon
the rural environment to teach rural youth the
habits of wildlife. Boys and girls learn the ways
wild birds and animals live and behave. They are
taught to love the worthy ones and respect them
as friends and to understand their place‘in their
agricultural world. Many clubs have developed
interesting nature trails which vary widely in con-
tour and length. Nearly 100,000 farmers are as-
sisted each year by Extension Service in making
improvements for wildlife.

As the eyes of youth are trained to observe and
appreciate the beauty of wild flowers, trees and
shrubs in their own and other neighborhoods, 4-H
nature study hikes are commonly sicheduled every-
where. Through these trips and studies, lessons
in conservation can be effectively taught. Ap-
proximately 90,000 farmers are assisted each year
in reforesting new areas, which helps to bring

nature study close to the home. 

r
In 1944, 16,817 boys and 13,332 girls were en- 1
rolled in wildlife and nature study projects and l
10,650 boys and 2,484 girls were enrolled in for- ‘
estry projects. These enrollees were in addition to
the thousands who incidentally observed and I
studied in this same general field. Also of 2,146
|

RECREATION ‘

counties reporting in 1944,
agents devoted 14,791 days
and state workers 2,851 
days to forestry projects
in 18,581 communities
where 23,192 voluntary
local leaders or commit-
eemen assisted. Over
9,000 communities con-
ducted wildlife conserva—
tion projects during the
same year.

Recent Recreation
Projects Completed

In 1944, 138,924 4-H
members had definite train-
ing in recreation leader-
ship projects; 140,054 in
music appreciation proj—
ects, and 538,101 in health
projects———just to mention
a few. There were 33,341 other club members
engaged in community activities such as improv-
ing school grounds and conducting local fairs. As
previously stated, other thousands of 4—H youth
participated in many similar studies and activities
though they were not formally registered and
counted in formal projects—their activities under
these subject headings were the informal, inci-
dental type.

   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   

Handcraft

Handcraft is also a popular mode of recreation
in the programs of both 4—H Clubs and home
demonstration work.

People like to do something besides look at art
and craft objects. Much of the Federal Extension
Service literature and a large number of the states
stress handcraft as a recreational activity in 4-H
Club and camp work as well as in home demon-
stration work and camps. There has been a tre—
mendous resurgence of interest in the arts and
crafts since the end of the war. Home demonstra-
tion agents and subject matter specialists in crafts
teach women to make almost every acceptable
type of handcraft article from sewing baskets to
hooked rugs. Almost every known kind of hand-
craft is mentioned somewhere in the literature,
such as: woodcraft of all kinds involving the mak-
ing of everything from scrapbook covers to bird-
houses, fly tying, knotting, plaques, weaving, knit-
ting, textile painted articles, clay modeling, leather-
craft, toys, games, jewelry craft, rope making, sew-

FEBRUARY 1947

 

m ,5 h 3‘ Q; 

U.S.D.A. Extension Service Photo

Extension Service builds healthier children

ing, linoleum belts, art, painting, model aircraft
and many others.

Painting

Painting or rural art under the inspiring lead-
ership of John Stuart Curry, recently deceased.
has been an especially interesting and challenging
extension project for a number of years in Wis-
consin. As artist in residence, he sponsored annual
state art exhibits to which hundreds of farm people
sent their own creative work for display. Many a
rural prosaic life was lifted by the beautiful Wis-
consin paintings and kindly teachings of John
Stuart Curry.

Camping

Camping is fun! It represents the high point of
the year for the average healthy boy or girl in a
world that is rapidly becoming altogether too arti-
ficial and civilization-marred! Well managed 4-H
camps from Maine to California provide more
than the usual opportunities for getting a little of
that outdoor rugged living in a beautiful environ-
ment so needed by modern, even rural youth.

Since the war, attendance at camps has in-
creased. Attendance in New York State at county
4-H Club camps, for instance, was 3,760 in 1946
-—which is 1,461 more than attended in 194.4.

575

These camps ranged from 10 days to two weeks
per camper and “attendance was drawn from 45
counties. California Operated seven 4-H camps in
1946 which attracted 3,500 boys and girls. One of
their best developed and most beautiful camps was
held in W hitaker’s Forest in Tulare County. Since
1927, 25,000 boys and girls have enjoyed this
camp. Many other states held highly successful
camps -in 1946.

Camps may be for boys alone, girls alone or for
mixed groups. A given camp may include all of
one age group or mixed ages. Many who attend
are away from home for the first time.

Camp life provides many of the socializing in—
fluences lost to rural young folks since many rural
schools do not offer much in the way of music,
drama and playground games. Camps afford youth
these experiences and more.

The Extension Service also conducts day camp
activities in some states.

Music in 4-H Clubs

“It takes three to make music; one to create,
one to perform, one to appreciate!” Extension
groups everywhere—adults and youth, are taught
to understand good music, to appreciate its cul-
tural values, and to participate in singing and
playing. They are taught to enjoy the release from
their worldly cares which music brings as they
relax and grow under the spell of its social and
spiritual significance. As Longfellow once said,
“Show me the home wherein music dwells and I
will show you a happy, peaceful and contented
home.” Extension personnel have as one of their
main objectives the contentment of rural people.

Nowhere is there demonstrated a more virile
interest in music participation than in the 4—H

Clubs. There were in 1944, 536,725 homes that
had 4-H Club members—homes that were cer-

tainly more than exposed to the splendid benefits
of the 4-H music program.

4-H music is more than music appreciation and

group singing. There are club choruses, bands
and orchestras by the dozen in Wisconsin, Iowa,
Illinois, New York and many other states. It is a
growing program everywhere!

Training Camps for Leaders
When we recall that 4-H Clubs are supervised

by volunteer leaders we realize the tremendous

importance of training meetings, conferences and
camps. Many states conduct district camps for the
leadership training of youth. Texas, for example,

576

phasis on education, recreation and community

held seven in the summer of 1946.. Training w
given in crafts, camp cookery, planning vario
recreation activities—active and quiet games; fol
games; swimming; nature study; and, in on

camp, riflery. District camp practices were the

adapted to county conditions. In Texas, these dis‘
trict camps wereofollowed up with county camp
or rallies in 75 percent of the counties and thos
receiving training at district camps directed th

activities at the county camps with the help of th
adult leaders and county agents.

3 _- 0—-

P
Some camps are organized for the training -

adult volunteer leaders in certain states. Ohio an
other states have held camps and conferences fo ‘
. . . . Q
planning county and district camps. They tra1
counselors for camp programs and provide helpf ’
institutes for older members and advisors. Virgini
for instance, holds frequent camp leaders’ confe °
ences in the spring. Programs to be used in th .
county camps are developed and tried out. Speci '
programs, music, handcraft and similar activitie
are not merely discussed, but actually put int
practice. Many states hold shorter training course i

I 0 U .
where ideas and program materials are given fo
future use on the home grounds.

Recreation for Older Youth

Extension Service has assumed considerable re .
sponsibility for directing recreation_activities fo ;
older youth. In 1946 the Department recognize
that only one-eighth of all rural young people :’
to 26 years of age belong to any organized group.
In many counties co-educational, rural, older youth

groups are organized and members have leader-l,

ship opportunities in a program that places em—‘I
service topics and programs. During the war years

there were fewer members in these groups, yet in]
1944 there were 1,183 such groups with 42,346l
members. Most of these youth were at one time}
in 4—H Clubs and most of them are not in school;
The great importance .of an extension recreationl
program is better appreciated when we recognize
the limited amount of ‘ recreational facilities in;
many rural homes and how many communities,-
provide no recreational attractions to youth otherl
than the movies or a cheap dance hall operated onI
a commercial basis, often with a bar close at hand.

Among the listed objectives, concern is expressed 1
for the social and spiritual development of youth,‘
the rendering of community service, active partici- '

pation in community organizations and opportuni-
ties for self-expression.

While many states have found it difficult to pro-
\
RECREATION

 

  

". N" 

U.S.D.A. Extension S er'm'ce Photo

"Leaders capitalize upon the rural environments"

ide suitable recreation programs for their older
outh, Wisconsin developed a special project for
1 lder rural youth which recognizes work with this
ge group as the responsibility of all departments
0 be coordinated through at least one specially
esignated state worker and with older rural
p outh.

  
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  

a he Program of Home Demonstration Work

1

Homemaking is one of the three main divisions
: f emphasis in Agricultural Extension work. Of
F e 3,111 counties in the United States, Puerto
, : ico, Hawaii and Alaska, 2,017 have home demon-
' ' ration agents. Between 3,000,000 and 4,000,000
.milies were influenced by home demonstration
orkers last year. It would be impossible to know
3 w many other families were indirectly influenced
1 .y their Extension Service friends and neighbors!

i biectives List Recreation

Nine objectives are stated for home demonstra-
"on agents, and one of these objectives is “to
i' evelop an appreciation of the importance of recre-

n in rural homes and communities.” Another
'3 of home demonstration agents according to

I RUARY 1947
'l

 

Reba Adams, Specialist in Home Industries, is
“to develop skills in activities which may become
worthwhile hobbies for individuals when they retire
from active business or professional life.” Many
of the other objectives carry implied significance
for recreation because this whole program is aimed
to assist rural people develop better satisfied, eco-
nomically sound, better educated and happier
families who understand how to use the best scien-
tific methods of running their homes on a practi—
cal basis.

A Few Typical Activities

Home demonstration agents urge communities
to construct or acquire community Clubhouses and
then they lead them in developing regular social
recreation programs. All agents constantly strive
to produce an awareness on the part of each family
of their responsibilities to their homes, communi-
ties and to the nation. Typical of their work,
home demonstration agents assisted 5,924 com-
munities in improving school or other recreation

grounds in 1944.

Rural people who are isolated from urban recre-
ation programs need, ask for, and get much help

577

in the recreation field from the home demonstra—
tion and 4-H agents. The agents are constantly
encouraging rural people to develop better health
practices. This involves consideration of better
nutrition, housing, recreation, work environment,
and social living. Farm youth need this attention
as those between 18 and 19 years old showed the
highest selective service rejection for physical,
mental or education defects of any occupational
group. Forty—one percent of them were rejected
as against 25 percent of other groups.

Dr. Seaman A. Knapp,. founder of extension
work, once admonished extension agents— “Do
not go before your people with an elaborate pro-
gram. Your value lies in not what you can do,
but in what you get the other people to do.”

How Home Demonstration
Contributes to Recreation

Home demonstration personnel contribute to
the recreational life of rural people chiefly in the
following ways:

By introducing recreational features into appropri—
ate parts of the thousands of small and large group
meetings held each year.

By teaching the rural housewife the art of proper
relaxation and recreation for herself.

By encouraging and helping families to plan wisely
their leisure time and to have recreation within the
\family even at home.

By organizing and promoting home demonstration
camps for rural women.

By helping to promote 4-H Clubs and all youth
groups particularly in the large number of counties
where no 4—H agents are employed.

By encouraging and assisting home demonstration
clubs to develop the recreational needs and resources
of their own communities and to work out improve—
ments in the way of facilities, libraries and activities.

Recreation occupies a part of many adult meet-
ings. Often singing, a skit, or a play are scheduled
and sometimes a whole meeting is recreational in
character. The significance of these facts to rec-
reation is grasped when we note that 43,983,179
people attended cooperative extension meetings
during the period 1935 to 1944. While a recrea—
tional emphasis runs through much of the program
promoted by home demonstration agents, it is very
difficult to segregate it, tabulate it, reduce it to a
formula or to treat the subject statistically with
any degree of finality! However, because it is
dimcult to segregate this recreation is no reason to
doubt its existence or to ignore its importance!

Libraries are promoted by home demonstration
stajj'. Home demonstration workers assisted over

578

The Future Youth Work and 4-H Clubs

5,000 communities and counties in “securing rur‘
libraries and bookmobiles when library faciliti
were not within reach of their homes last year
Typical is the development reported in a larg
Montana county where 1,200 families were with
out library facilities. After a year’s hard work b .
a community committee 10 branch stations wer
in operation.

V acatiou camps for rural women are popula
Outdoor vacation camps give rural women '
chance to get away from their home cares, debt
and the chickens! Camps of this type sponsore
by home demonstration agents since the earl l”
twenties have grown in popularity and number
until today large permanent camps are being es
tablished, in several states. During the war man
camps were not active but since then there h '
been a great resurgence of interest and activity.

The purpose of these camps is to provide '
struction, recreation and rest for rural w0m ‘
Women who have not been away from home I,
stay overnight in eight or ten years, get tired 0
their dull and isolated existence and they look t
their demonstration agents. often for guidance an
counsel in an effort to “get away from it all.”

0

As early as 1927, there were 19,957 women wh
attended 205 camps in 30 states. Today there ar‘ I
many more camps, though during the war th
number was restricted. Camp sites are usuall
beautifully surrounded—being near streams, lakes
forests and mountains.

Future of Extension Service v

What is the future of Extension Service? Fund '
from the Bankhead—Flannagan Act will do muc
to increase the number of paid employees a:
greatly needed. Eighty-nine percent of these ne r
millions of dollars will be spent for new count
extension agents. When Congress held its heard
ings on this bill, much was presented to show .
desire to expand 4-H Club work and work wit .
the older out-of-school youth. Many of the ne
agents being employed will therefore be assigne
to youth work. About 32 percent of all the tim
of all present extension workers is being spent 0 .‘
4—H Club work and work with youth groups. I

l

p

l

A 4

The future looks good for greatly expanding all

youth work. In the future many more rural com-[
munities will find an increase in recreation facili-(
ties as well as an increase in paid personnel. These

RECREATION!

additions will make it possible to accomplish more
easily one of the aims of Extension Service in
making more families healthy, contented, happy
and well adjusted.

During the past year, a committee of state,
county and national 4-H leaders has been working
on the 4-H Club program of the future. Recently
IO guideposts established by this committee were
published in the February 1946 issue of the Ex-
tension Service Review and offered to clubs
throughout this country as follows: “To help pre-
pare tomorrow’s citizens, physically, mentally, and
spiritually, 4-H Club work provides Opportunities
for voluntary participation in programs, built on
needs and interest, through which youth are: (1)
Developing talents for greater usefulness; (2)
joining with friends for work, fun, and fellowship;
(3) learning to live in a changing world; (4)
choosing a way to earn a living; (5) producing
food and iiber for home and market; (6) creating
better homes for better living; (7) conserving
nature’s resources for security and happiness; (8)
building health for a strong America; (9) sharing

"Joining with friends for work, fun. fellowship"

FEBRUARY 1947

responsibilities for community improvement; and

(IO) serving as citizens in maintaining world
peace.”

Recreation Wins Recognition

As stated earlier in this article, Extension Ser—
vice was not established primarily to promote a
recreation program for rural people. It was origi-
nally established to train rural folks to become
better farmers and more efficient homemakers.
Over the years, times have changed, people have
changed and philos0phies have kept pace with
these changes. In the early days of the Service,
recreation, while not tabooed, was suppressed, held
down and de-emphasized. Today Extension Ser—
vice personnel promote recreation for adults and
youth at every appropriate time and place. Recre-
ation has earned a place for itself in Extension
Service. Rural people everywhere are being bene-
fited more and more by recreation activities as ex-
tension people work overtime in their enthusiasm
to build healthier and happier farmers, home-
irnakers and citizens.

 

U.S.D.A. Extension Service Photo

579

Recreation in

Fish and Wildlife Service —

N CONSIDERING the Fish and Wildlife Service of
I the United States Department of the Interior

andthe part its program plays in the recreation
life of Our people, no attempt will be made to de-
scribe fully all its diverse activities. That would
require several books. Most attention will be given
to specific facts that point out direct relationships
to recreation or statements that portray implica—
tions for sportsmen who are mostly interested in
motoring, hiking‘, camping, fishing and hunting.
Viewed from this perspective, it will be seen that
Fish and Wildlife Service contributes much to
recreation. .

The lure of outdoor life with its streams, lakes,
woods, green valleys and rugged mountains, sug-
gests other attractions—trout sizzling in a pan
over an open fire, the aroma of a pine forest, the
blaze of an evening campfire and the hoot of a
lonesome owl!

3 Fishing and Hunting—America’s
First Major Sports

Fishing has often been referred to as America’s
number one sport. Hunting is not far behind in
so far as the number of sports-
men is concerned. More than
16,000,000 licenses were sold to
anglers and hunters during the
past year, and those in a position
to know say that these numbers
will increase appreciably during
‘the next few years. Americans
have always loved the sportsman’s
out-of-doors type of life. From
the pioneer days, the early settlers
took great interest in hunting and
fishing. At first these sports were
pursued eagerly from a point of
view of survival, yet the activity
continued far beyond the urge of
necessity. When General Eisen-
hower found the war in Europe
was about to be successfully ter-
minated, he is quoted as saying:
“Let’s get this thing over and go

580

fishing!” This remark, no doubt, struck a reSpon-
sive chord in the hearts of several million service
people who inaudibly shared in the thrilling
thought. Incidentally, when the war was won,
that’s exactly what the General did do; he went
“fishing!”

Early America—A Sportsman's Paradise

At one time in the early history of our country,
there was a great abundance of wild game and fish
and smaller fur-bearing animals. In those days
conservation was an unknown word as Sportsmen
fished and hunted to their heart’s content. Not
until our fish and other wildlife resources were
ravished over a period of many years did the
American people become interested in doing any-
thing to stop the waste of those once great
resources.

Happy Hunting in 2047

When some wildlife Species such as the heath
hen and the passenger pigeons became extinct and

Canada Geese on Lake Souris Refuge. N. D.

 

Fish and Wildlife Service Photo

RECREATION l

 

l

3 Congress may authorize expenditures from this

others were reduced in numbers almost to the point

of extinction, something had to be done and, as I

we shall see later, was done. If hunting and fish-

ing are good a hundred or a thousand years from
now, those future sportsmen, now unborn, can give

credit to the Fish and \Vildlife Service because “it
planned it that way.”

Federal_Aid to Wildlife Restoration Fund

The Federal Government shows its interest in
the states’ program to acquire and maintain refuges
in a most practical way. The Pittman Robertson
Federal Aid to Wildlife Restoration Act was
passed in 1937, and under its terms, the Federal
Government may pay a grant to any state which
has enacted apprOpriate legislative measures to
promote conservation. When states set up projects
to buy lands and improve them, the government
may pay to the states 75 percent of the cost of
those projects which it approves. Money accumu-
lates in a special government account for this pur-
pose. This account is known as the Federal Aid

I to Wildlife Restoration Fund. Money comes from

an excise tax imposed on firearms, shells, and
cartridges. By June 30, 1945, more than $11,000,-
000 had accumulated in this fund, since wartime
shortages made it impractical to spend the money.

fund. Federal apportionments are supplemented

' by state apprOpriations which amount to 25 per—

I

cent of the cost of each project. In the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1946, $1,000,000 was appropri-

: ated to the states from this fund. Many expansion

_ projects, long since approved, will be started as
I soon as inhibiting obstacles, such as lacknof ma-

1-
I
,1

l

I

terials, are removed.

Functions and Activities of the Fish and
c Wildlife Service

“The central function of the Fish and Wildlife
Service is to effect and maintain an equilibrium of
our native animal resources that will be most
profitable to the most men.”* The Service deals
with the game and other birds; game, fur, and

|other land mammals; reptiles and amphibians;

0

commercial and sport fishes and fisheries, includ-

ing the shrimp, lobster, and shellfish industries;

. and fur seals, whales and other marine mammals.

The Service correlates and supervises all wild-
life restoration activities under the Federal Aid to

,Wildlife Restoration Act, described later. It pro-

vides and maintains refuges as perpetual habitats

 

*lra N. Gabrielson—former Director, Fish and \Vildlife Service,
Department of Interior——.4mmal Report, 1945.

FEBRUARY 1947

for wildlife. It conducts studies of the biology and
abundance of fishery resources. It propagates food
and game fishes to assist in maintaining sport and
commercial fishes. In Alaska, the Service regulates
and protects the salmon and other commercial
fisheries as well as game fishes in interior waters,
and administers the fur seal and fox herds on the
Pribilof Islands. It provides leadership in curb-
ing the increase and spread of stock-killing wild
animals and destructive rodents, furnishes tech-
nical advice in the control of injurious birds and
noxious fishes, and compiles reports on the vari-
ous projects and species concerned. The Service
gathers and disseminates information and it con-
ducts educational work.

The Federal Government acts for the national
interest as a research and advisory agency as it
works to help the states. The Service collaborates
in the conservation of species shared between the'
United States and other nations. In waters under
Federal urisdiction and in territories of the United
States, the Federal Government exercises regu-
latory jurisdiction over fishery resources and is
responsible for their conservation and full utiliza-
tion. While the Government has the authority to
regulate the fisheries in the territories. it does so
only in Alaska. "

Facilities for Recreation

The Fish and \Vildlife Service contributes much
to the recreational enjoyment of people, yet it does
not promote a recreation program in the popularly
recognized manner. There are 88 refuges, how-
ever, where some recreation facilities are installed.
North Dakota leads with 10 such refuges, Mon-
tana is next with nine, while Arizona, New Mexico
and Oregon have live each. These facilities are
used by many people. There are areas set aside for
recreation where no man-made facilities are pro-
vided. Certain fishing and hunting areas are ex-
amples. Some areas provide facilities for numerous
other recreation opportunities such as camping,
hiking, picnicking, canoeing, hunting, nature ac-
tivities and boating.

Activities Recreational in Character

Many of the refuges provide beautiful scenic
environments which often team with migratory
waterfowl, other birds, fur and big-game animals
which provide camera hunters with much en joy-
ment. The same environments offer the student of
nature excellent flora and fauna exhibits. Maca-
tionists often enjoy the rest and unadulterated re-
laxation which comes from living out-of-d'oors in
such places where contemplation is the chief ac-'

6

581"

tivity. The Service conducts routine tours to espe-
cially attractive big—game retreats where winter
feeding operations may be watched. Occasionally
organized groups from nearby cities use refuge
areas for recreation purposes. Wichita makes such
use of an area. The famous Wichita Easter Pag—
eant is held in the Wichita Refuge, Oklahoma,
each year.

Conservation Program

The conservation program of the Wish and Wild—
life Service affects the industrial economy of the
nation as well as the recreational pleasures of
about 40,000,000 people. Ira N. Gabrielson, for-
mer Director of the Service, has said that “Con-
servation, or preservation, as a mere end in itself,
is an empty and outmoded philosophy which can
have little place in the economy of a progressive
people. In order to be worth conserving, resources
must be useful ; either commercially, recreationally,
or aesthetically.”

International in Scope

The interests of our Fish and Wildlife authori-
ties in conservation work does not end in the
refuges..which belong to the Federal Government.
The Service... works with- any» group interested in
conservation problems. Its interests even trans-
cend international boundary lines as it works c0—
operatively under treaty arrangements with Canada
and Mexico. How it works cooperatively with
states, counties and private organizations will be
shown elsewhere in this report.

Migratory Waterfowl Protection

Much of the work for the conservation of migra-
tory waterfowl is done in the northern breeding
areas where refuges cover millions of acres. The
Service also provides huge wintering areas in the

deep south where the birds spend six months of
their lives each year.

The greater part of the conservation work in
this country and Canada is aimed at giving the
“babies” a chance to grow up. Man cannot control
the weather which kills thousands of downy young
nor can he influence very much the breeding con—
ditions in the vast wilderness, tundra and muskeg
waters of Northern Canada and Alaska where the
bulk of the waterfowl are raised each year. He
can, however, improve habitats where waterfowl
breed and grow under protective laws. He can
control streams, spring run-offs, the amount of
water in many marsh areas, and he can and does
build dams and create lakes. Improving old habi—
tats and creating new ones are routine procedures

582

as conservation authorities carry out approved
projects and constantly work to provide new ones.

Effects of War
The war was directly and indirectly responsible

for killing many birds and animals. Oil spread
over large water areas played havoc with many
birds, for it permeated the feathers and ruined
them as waterproof coverings. As a result, thous—
ands of auks, murres, puffins, sea gulls and ducks
lost their lives. War camps on ungle islands ruined
many useful nesting places. Many coastal islands
that had been used as refuges by birds were ren-
dered uninhabitable by frequent bombing practice.

Conservation on Island Waterways

Keeping an ample supply of fish in our streams
and lakes is a constant concern of conservationists.
As our country has grown, many of the forces of
civilization have reacted unfavorably to the best
welfare of our fishery resources. The development
of airplane travel, the expansion of highways and
the increased number of motorists have been fact—
ors in depleting our inland waterways.

The development of huge flood control and
power projects on inland streams where dams
have been built, has created some wonderful new
fishing areas like Meade Lake, behind Boulder
Dam; yet some dams have cut off huge spawning
areas for Pacific Coast salmon. When theiShasta
Dam was built in California, conservation authori-
ties had another headache and a salmon mainte-
nance program was developed below the dam to
save the fishing industry from losing an estimated
$2,000,000 per year. Many industrial plants and
mines have been allowed to operate for years in
such a way as to pollute nearby streams and lakes
rendering them unfit as habitats for fish. Sewage
from boats and cities poured into streams and
other waterways have further reduced the value
of these habitats. Pollution of waterways is con-

..—-—-‘ ‘-

sidered one of the most serious and most complex .

of all conservation problems. Streams have been
so defiled in many places by noxious gases and
compounds like cyanide that many fish habitats
have been completely ruined in areas once heavily
populated. The Service employs a staff that works
full time in an effort to minimize these hazards.
Cleaning streams and lakes of debris, controlling
water How, making artificial and natural obstruc—

tions possible and fighting water pollution—mall?
these indicate work projects which keep Wildlife 1;,-

people busy much of the time.

Wildlife Refuges
Before Columbus visited America, the 1,905,—

361,920 acres of land and the 28,965,780 acres of

RECREATION

\

inland water which constitute the United States
were used by millions upon millions of wild cre-
tures of all sorts. All of America was, in effect,
one of the finest game refuges in the world. As
White settlers came and population increased, nat-
ural wildlife habitats were gradually reduced in
size until some species of wildlife were practically
threatened with extinction. As the value of wild-
life ultimately became more apreciated, means of
preserving these resources had to be devised. One
of the most effective measures for preserving wild-
life is the game refuge. These were established to
provide perpetual habitats for wild fowl and for
game animals. Refuges have been acquired by re-
serving large portions of the public domain, by
purchase and by gifts.

Reclamation Projects as Refuges

As a result of a law passed by Congress in 1934,
the Fish and Wildlife Service is given the oppor-
tunity to make use of impounded water areas de-
ve10ped by the Bureau of Reclamation for fish
culture and migratory'bird resting and nesting
areas, whenever such use is not inconsistent with
the primary use of such waters and/or the consti-
tutional rights of the states. “By far the most
numerous and important refuges established on
.other lands are the 27 on Reclamation with-
drawals. . . .” *

Director Albert M. Day recently stated that,
. “Some 100,000,000 acres of marsh have been
drained in this country in the last 50 years. The
Service has Spent more than $20,000,000 in ac-
l quiring and restoring about three and one-half mil-
‘ lion acres in the United States, much of them for
breeding areas in the northern tier of states. The
, Canadian Government has built over 5,500 dams,
many of which are major reservoir areas.” Count-
ing dug-outs, Canada is completing more than
20,000 water restoration projects. Canada and
Mexico each maintain refuge systems.

Effect of War on Refuges

During the war years the refuge system was
operated on a maintenance basis only, as construc-
tion was not possible and about two-thirds of all
refuge personnel were in war services. In fact,
during those years water-control structures, patrol
trails and buildings suffered considerable deter-
ioration.

Other Refuges

Lands under the control of the Office of Indian
Affairs, the United States Coast Guard, and many
such projects as the Tennessee Valley Authority,

 

*Wildlife Refuges, by Ira N. Gabrielson, former Director, Fish
and Wildlife Semce. 1943.

FEBRUARY 1947

all contribute refuge areas which are administered
by the Fish and Wildlife Service. In addition,
state agencies have made valuable additions to the
national refuge system. The states maintain a
large number of large refuges. Many private or-
ganizations do quite a bit to help.
Classijication and Acreage of National Wildlife
Refuges for Birds Administered by the Fish and

Wildlife Service in the United States and Ter-
eateries—1946.

 

 

Classificat ion Number Acres
For migratory waterfowl . . . . . . . . .. 201 3,213,658
For other migratory birds and gen-
eral wildlife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 3,870,156
For colonial non-game birds . . . . . . . . 49 91,043
Patuxent Research Refuge, Md.. . . . 1 2,623

37'; 7,177,430

Big-Game Refuges *
The areas available for big-game in the United
States in 1941 are shown in the table given below:

Ownership or Control Area
Land Inland Water Total
Acres Acres Acres

' Fish and Wildlife

Service Refuges. 9,448,822 143,891 9,592,713W
National Forests.. .143,810,000 2,190,000 146,000,000
National Parks and '

Monuments .. . . . 15,392,881 234,409 15,627,290
Indian Reservations 50,627,942 770,984 51,398,926
Grazing District-5.. . 142,700,102 2,173,098 144,873,200
State and Private

Land 5 . . . . . . . . . . 95 1,382,173 14,488,053 965 ,870,%6

Waterfowl Resources

In 1944, there were 125,350,000 game species
of migratory waterfowl in this country and by
1946, this number had shrunk to only 80,000,000.
This decline was the consequence of increasing
hunting pressure coupled with a long period of
weather unfavorable t6 survival of the young.
These numbers showing such a large decrease in
valuable resources illustrate the need for conser-
vation if hunting of waterfowl is to remain profit-

_ able and attractive.

Big-Game Animalst

All the big-game animals in the country totalled
7,148,422 in 1943 as compared to 6,748,424 in
1941, showing a gain of 5.9 percent. Census figures
such as these are compiled from a great number of
enumerations made by all sorts of methods, from
those people who walk to the barren, frozen moun-
tain heights to count the bighorn sheep, to those
who peer from fast moving airplanes in semi-open
country to estimate the herds of deer, elk and

caribou.

 

Gig-game Resources of the United State: 1 37-1942, Research
Report No. 8, Page 45—Departrnent of (in nor—fish and
Wildlife Service.

"I creased to 10,642,015 acres b Jul 1 194‘.
1' Srfatistics from Department of interfewalsb and M16“. Ser-

vice: (11‘!) News ReleaSe, In. 31, 1946 and ‘2) Research
Report 0. 8, 1944.

583

 

Fish and Wildlife Service Photo

-\... Charles Sheldon Antelope Refuge. Nevada

During the 1943 season, a total of 739,396 big-
game animals were killed throughout the United
States, according to records supplied to the Fish
and Wildlife Service by the various state game or
conservation commissions. Most of the kill records
were for the legal kill in open seasons. Conserva-
tion officials estimate that the illegal kill is no

small item and in some localities may equal more
than half of the legal kill.

Value of Fish and Wildlife Resources

In the 1945 Report of the Director of Fish and r

Wildlife Service, we find the estimated valuations
placed upon the fish and wildlife resources of the
country as follows: '

Waterfowl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l,500,000,000

Fur-bearing Animals . . . . . . .. 400,000,000

Big—Game Animals . . . . . . . . .. 1,300,000,000

Commercial Fisheries . . . . . ..’. 5,800,000,000

Game Fishes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5,000,000,000

Total . . . . . . . . . . . .$14,000,000,000

Former Director of Fish and Wildlife Service,
Ira N. Gabrielson, is author of the significant
statement that “If we take into account the utilized
resources, and such benefits as are rendered fields
and forests by the insect control activities of birds,
for example, and all the imponderable values, 'such

584

as beauty and recreation, the amount derived
above is perhaps no more than a tenth of the
grand total, which may therefore be set at some-
where around $140,000,000,000.”

Licenses and Revenue

Fishing .

In a news release issued by Fish and Wildlife
Service on March 11, 1946, we find that 8,280,232
angling licenses were issued during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1945. These licenses were issued
to fresh-water anglers who paid $10,580,311 in
revenue into the treasuries of the 48 states. These

figures showed considerable increase over statis-
tics recorded during the previous year.

Hun’ring

In another news release bulletin issued by Fish
and Wildlife Service dated March 5, 1946, we find
that there were 8,190,901 hunting licenses sold in
the different states during the fiscal year ending, I
June 30, 1945. These sales produced $15,512,252\f
in revenue and represented the largest number of {
hunters during any one of the war period years.
During 1945, travel restrictions included the rar
tioning of gasoline and ‘tires, which makes the
figures even more significant. During this same

RECREATION

l

 

 

year non-resident hunting licenses jumped from
107,686 in 1943-44 to 154,363 in 1944-45.

Federal Migratory Bird Hunting stamps, com-
monly called “duck stamps,” were issued to
1,487,029 sportsmen during the year ending June
30, 1945. This number increased to 1,686,368 for
the nine-month period ending March 31, 1946.
This is the hihest figure on record to that date.
These federal stamps were sold at one dollar each,
and were levied in addition to the state licenses
which are required of all water-fowl hunters over
16 years of age.

Reasons for Increased Number of Sportsmen

During the war the restrictions on the purchase
of tires, gasoline, and automobiles did keep thous-
l ands of sportsmen confined to their city homes at
I a time when they needed fishing and hunting to
help relieve the nervous tensions provoked by war
and high pressure war production work. This re-
straint resulted in a rush back to the marshes and
streams when many of the inhibiting causes were
removed. The pent up desire for the enjoyment of
outdoor sports is largely responsible for the wave
of increased numbers of hunters and fishermen in
1946. Then, too, several million ex-servicemen
who learned to use firearms and to appreciate out-
door living for the first time, got a taste of these
sports and liked them. In a survey conducted by
the Anazerican Legion Magazine, *‘0 percent of the
servicemen said they wanted to hunt and 62 per-
cent said they intended to go fishing.* Our wild-
life animals and birds are now meeting "head on”
the largest army of “hungry” hunters this country
has ever known! Americans are more vacation
conscious today than ever before. With this great
interest being shown in hunting and fishing, we

will need to rely more than ever before upon the,

. judgment, advice and regulations of the scientists
in the Fish and Wildlife Service if we are honest
and want to see the wildlife resources of the coun-
try maintained on a safe basis.

Pond Fish Culture 1‘

One of the interesting trends in fish culture in
recent years has been the construction and main-
tenance of fish ponds which supply food and sport
fishing for farm owners. There are about 360,000
acres of farm and ranch ponds in the United States
today, with a potential yield of 18,000,000 pounds
of edible fish a year. Farm ponds usually cover

 

*From an address by Albert M. Day, Director Fish and Wildlife

Service at the 11th North American Wildlife Conference, New
York City, March 12, 1946.

TFishery Resource: of the U. 5.; submitted to. Senate, 70th Con-
gress lst Session. by Secretary of the Interior—Document No.
51; Government Printing Office, 1944.

FEBRUARY 1947

from one to five acres. Texas alone boasts about
100,000 ponds of which 70 percent are suitable for
fish. In the fiscal year 1944-45, requests to stock
ponds were over 200 percent higher than in the
previous year. In the fiscal year ending June 30,
1946, the Fish and Wildlife Service furnished
7,600,000 fish to farm ponds, a 90 percent increase
over the 1944 figure.

The Fish and \Vildlife Service will stock farm
pools in states which are not permitted by law to
stock private ponds from state hatcheries. If a
city, for instance, wanted to develop a fishing
pond, the Fish and Wildlife Service gives the
necessary scientific advice and the stock of fish.
Other federal agencies could be consulted for
advice on construction methods.

The Soil Conservation Service has estimated
recently that 649,000 additional farm and ranch
ponds are needed in the United States to meet soil
conservation needs. It would require nearly
1,000,000,000 fish to stock that number of ponds,
and today the Fish and Wildlife Service has only
one-sixth enough hatchery ponds to provide this
amount of stock. In encouraging farmers to de-
velop fish ponds, the Service cooperates exten-
sively with the Extension Service of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The Extension Service
supplies literature on the subject of farm pools to
anyone interested. By developing these pools,
many farmers are bringing one of the best kinds
of recreation within the convenient reach of many.

Hatcheries

With more than 18,000,000 fishermen depleting
our streams and lakes at a rapid rate, the Fish and
Wildlife Service maintains more than 100 hatch-
eries in order to keep the food and game fish stock
somewhere near adequate to meet the desires of
sportsmen and industrial fishery establishments.
Some of the largest hatcheries are on the Columbia
and Sacramento Rivers. There are hatcheries in
almost every state in the union. Not only are
depleted streams and lakes restocked, but the fauna
of a lake may be changed whenever it is found
practicable or necesary.

Wildlife Research

“The Service brings the biological sciences to
the aid not only of agriculture, horticulture, stock
raising, forestry and recreation but of the fauna as
well. This is accomplished through biological sur-
veys, fields investigations, and laboratory studies
of the distribution, migration, classification, natural
history, taxonomy, food habits, food resources,
and diseases of wildlife, and through studies and

585

experiments concerning the breeding, feeding, and
management of wild fur animals and domesticated
rabbits. Research and demonstration projects are
conducted in cooperation with land-grant colleges
and conservation commissions in ten states.. The
damage caused by birds, rodents, fur animals, preda-
tors, and other forms of wildlife on agricultural,
grazing, or forested areas is studied and selective
methods of control are determined. The research
includes studies and experiments relating to the
wildlife resources of the national parks, Indian
reservations and other areas, with methods of con-
servation and restoration, and surveys are made of
areas designed for the proper restoration and main—
tenance of game, fur and other forms of wildlife.”*

Cooperation with Other Agencies

While Fish and Wildlife Service cooperates with
all agencies which share their“ objectives, it is with
states, counties and such organizations as agricul-
tural and live-stock associations that a large share
of their cooperative work is accomplished. These

“Excerpt from the United State: Wildlife Government Manual,
Summer 1944; pp. 325-329, “Fish and Wildlife Service.”

Woodcock and young near nest

 

586

- am». w- 7 "an - .".'v-  « .

Fish and W {Id life Service Photo

groups are usually the agencies most active in con—
trolling injurious species such as noxious lishes,
injurious birds, destructive rodents and stock kill-
ing wild animals. They are also the agencies most
interested in the propagation of wildlife, its pro-
tection and its proper utilization.

Publications

One of the important functions of the Fish and
Wildlife Service is to gather and disseminate in-
formation. The Service through its various publi-
cations, press releases, radio addresses, exhibits
and movies carries out a continuous educational
campaign. Information is given to those who write
on outdoor subjects in newspapers and magazines
so that the public will get accurate facts. No doubt
more facts bearing on wildlife and conservation
subjects could be used to advantage in our public
schools. By educating the youth, conservation
people believe we stand the best chance of de-
veloping citizens who respect the value of wildlife
in proportion to its vast worth.

The Service Looks to the Future

In the 1946 report of the Secretary of the In-
terior, several recommendations are made which
indicate the trend of think-
ing for the‘ future. The
Secretarystated that “The
future supply of water-
fowl will depend upon the
kind of management we
give it.” Among many
recommendations recently

out that a corps of at least
150 well-trained and fully
developed United States
game management agents
will be needed, and to get
the best results, they are
needed to work in cooper-
ation with state conserva-
tion authorities.

The Service also expects
to give farmers more guid-
ance in good pond man-
agement. In carrying for-
ward this program, it'col—
laborates with the, Soil
Conservation Service, the
Agricultural Extension
Service, and other agen-
cies. In the future, greater
efforts will be made to

 

RECREATION

made, it has been pointed ‘

\

   

‘ prevent pollution of streams and lakes and to cor-

rect bad situations which have been allowed to
' develop.

Director Day recently stated that he believed
there would be great value in making a survey to
. show possible additional use of existing govern—
ment-owned areas which might well be utilized
' for various forms of recreation. He indicated that
the Fish and Wildlife Service has certain areas
that could well be developed if access roads were
7 built. The Service is interested in developing
. more fully the large potential recreation resources
of their many strategically located areas for all the
activities mentioned in this article-“not fishing and
hunting alone.

* Recreation in

ECREATION has become “Big Business” on the
R 179,215,686 acres, widely distributed, which
comprise our National Forests! Visitors using the
National Forests for recreation purposes reached
18,000,000 in 1941. With the war won, with gas
and tire rationing history, and new cars rolling off
assembly lines, figures available at this time indi-
cate that the 1941 figures were surpassed in 1946.
This means a tremendous increase in the numbers

.recorded during the war period when the 1944
count dropped to 6,250,000.

 

The personnel of the National Forests are be-
; ginning to realize in a tangible way the tremendous

pent up desire in' Americans everywhere for ad—
venture, for escape, and for release from the strains
accumulated during the trying war years. The list
of recreation facilities and activities available in
our National Forests is impressive now, yet ac—
cording to Ler F. Watts, Chief of Forest Service,
a large expansion program is necessary to satisfy
the present demands.

The possibilities for forest recreation are almost
unlimited! Children today hear their grandparents
speak of the “Call of the West,” the “Spell of the
Yukon,” and the “Charm of the Desert”——-but

, today they look to our National Forests for their

FEBRUARY 1947

 

the National Forests

The Service Is Appreciated

Americans everywhere who are interested in
hunting and fishing and all the incidental recrea-
tion that goes along with these outdoor sports are
becoming more and more aware of the need for
protective laws, supervision and the development
of areas and facilities that assist in making possi—
ble the sane -c0nservati0n of our fish and wildlife
resources. The Service is continually developing
methods for the better management of these re-
sources in a way that will be best for all Ameri-
cans—not for just a year or a decade, but forever!
As custodian of much of America’s valuable wild-
life, the Service has long since won the coopera-
tion and respect of thoughtful citizens everywhere.
Let the good work of the Service continue!

contacts with rugged existence. Some National
Forest is within a day’s drive of almost every city
and town in the United States.

The 1945 Report of the Chief of Forest Service
shows that the gross area within the established
boundaries of the National Forests is 228,451,444
acres, and of this 179,215,686 acres are under the
care of the Forest Service Administration in 42
states, Puerto Rico and Alaska. The magnificent
forests, with their turbulent rivers, waterfalls and
dry inesas, extend from sea level to the 14,000—
foot altitudes of perpetual snow. The Forest Ser-
vice believes the government should acquire those
remaining privately-owned lands within the Na-
tional Forest boundaries which are primarily val-
uable for National Forest purposes. Development
of additional National Forests in certain areas may

also be desirable.

If the forests were divided equally among all
our population, each person would have one and
one—third acres. \Vhat really thrills the average
person is not this fact but the feeling of owning

half the world as one gazes across the primitive
wilderness areas of which there are altogether
14,000,000 acres—often without a human in sight.
These 75 areas represent the untouched. unspoiled

587

vastness left as God created it for man’s use and
spiritual uplift. National Forests embrace nearly
one-tenth of our total land area, one-sixth of the
commercially useful forest acreage and one—third
of our nation’s raw timber.

Multiple-Use Principle of Management

Management of the National Forests through
the years has developed into multiple—use whereby
other consistent uses are permitted on lands man-
aged primarily for the protection of water flows
and the production of timber. Recreation is one
of the inherent forest resources which can be
utilized without disturbing the watershed values
and with only minor reduction of timber produc-
ing capacity. Some forests have highly developed
recreation areas, others have only a few. Under
the multiple-use principle of forest management,
proper emphasis is given to all the forest resources
within each forest. For instance, the development
of recreation facilities is not allowed to spoil an
area for wildlife, or work to the disadvantage of
the range, nor would the timber sales be extended
into a scenic recreation spot. Multiple-use means
good land-use planning. One use must be ad-
justed to other uses so that the greatest net public
benefit will result.

Recreation Planning and Administration

’ The job of administering recreation, planning
future developments, collecting data for planning,
construction of areas and maintenance all head up
on the Forest under the general supervision of the
Regional Chief of Recreation and the regional rec-
reation planners and landscape architects. Plan-
ning is considered in two parts, broad planning

which has to do with listing all improvements

within an area and is followed by detailed plan-
ning. Forest Service recreation administration is
concerned only with care and maintenance of

areas as no attempt is made to program activities
or to conduct lectures or tours.

Recreation Policy

According to John H. Sieker, Chief of the Di-
vision of Recreation and Lands, the Forest Service
adopted the following policy to guide its develop-
ment of the recreation resource:

“The general objective is to make the recreation
resource available to the greatest extent practic-
able-consistent with an over-all plan and policy
of coordinated development and use of all the Na-

tional Forest resources to furnish the maximum
public benefit.

588

“‘One of the distinctive characteristics of forest
recreation is that it is enjoyed in a natural en-
vironment. Every effort will be made to this end
in the planning and development of recreation.

“Suitable provision will be made for the estab-
lishment of primitive type areas.

“The Forest Service will develop. such facilities
as will aid in the enjoyment of those types of rec-
reation appropriate to the forest.

“It will especially discourage developments
which tend to introduce urbanization into the
forest.

“Facilities will be limited to those necessary to
serve public needs so as to keep to a minimum the
introduction of artificial developments in the forest
environment.

“Participant rather than spectator enjoyment
will be stressed.

“The objective is to provide developments needed
by many people. Public needs have preference
over the needs of individuals or small groups.

“Design of recreation structures will aim at ful-
filling the intended function, soundness, low main-
tenance and appropriateness to the forest environ-
ment."

a
r

Personnel

It is difficult to state exactly how many of the
National Forest Service personnel work with rec-
reation in one way or another. In each of the ten
regional offices there is a Chief of Recreation and
Lands whose job it is to manage the recreation
resource and land uses. The Chief may have one
or more assistants. Altogether in the regional of-
fices there are 20 professional employees on recre-
ation assignments. Forest Service recreation tech-
nicians are generally employed in connection with
planning and supervision of recreation areas and
facilities and over-all supervision of recreational
use.

On the Forests, the Supervisor, his assistant,
and all the rangers are responsible for all resource
management, including recreation. In individual
forests there are several permanent and many part-
time persons working as camp ground custodians
and guards. Since practically all forest supervis—

ors, rangers and others work part time administer-Q
ing recreational use it is very difficult to ascertain l

exactly how many are at least part-time recreation
workers. Several National Forests have a staff
assistant for recreation. One might think of the
engineer who plans a firebreak trail with recrea-
tional use in mind, as a part-time recreation worker

RECREATION »

 

 

 

!

-—~or the ranger who protects the wildlife for the
enjoyment of his visitors as a part time recreation
worker, and certainly the Chief of the Forest Ser-
vice who has a deep regard ‘for the recreational
values of the forests is a part time recreation
worker! The reader will readily see when viewed
from‘this perspective how utterly impossible it is
to classify into one compartment recreation work—
ers-—as such! It is evident that most of them touch
upon recreation directly or indirectly in some way.

Recreation Facilities

To accommodate over 18,000,000 recreation
visits a year requires not only vast space but many
man-made facilities. During the war years, full
maintenance of present facilities has been impos-
sible and since deterioration has lessened values to
some extent, considerable money should be spent
during the current year to restore the values of
existing structures.

In general, all National Forests have the fol-
lowing recreation resources: camp grounds, picnic
areas, winter sports areas (except southeastern
forests), swimming facilities, organization camps,
hiking and riding trails, hunting and fishing areas,
shelters, cabins, scenic roads for sightseeing, re-
sorts, hotels and summer homes. Generally, trails
are classed as protection improvements, although
they are available also for recreation.

The recreation developments are well distributed
over the National Forests but are. concentrated
around areas of dense population such as Los
Angeles, Salt Lake City, Denver, and through the
southern states. The objective of keeping areas
simple is sometimes abandoned near large cities
where such facilities as play fields, amphitheaters
and group shelters are installed.

The number and capacity of recreation areas as
listed below are impressive, yet they are inade-
quate to meet even present needs.

Camp and picnic-areas . . . . . . . . . 4,300

Individual camp sites . . . . . . . 34,000

Capacity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .281,000

\Vinter sports areas . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Acres . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51,000

Capacity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156,000

There are 3,100 camp and picnic areas that show
an actual use of less than 1,000 visits each year;
800 areas, 1,000 to 5,000 each; 200 areas, 5,000
to 25,000 each; and 52 areas with over 25.000
visits each.

A typical individual camp site gives the camper

FEBRUARY 1947

the use of a table, grate, parking area, latrine, run-
ning water and a community shelter. Camp sites
are usually spaced about 100 feet apart, so as to
give reasonable privacy. The average cost of a
camp site is about $1,000. A modern trend in
camp development is to provide trailer accommo-
dations so popular today. In some camps, moder—
ate charges are made for the use of such things as
bathhouses, lockers and firewood.

W' inter sport areas provide parking and sanitary
facilities and shelters. The 130 ski lifts and tows
are privately owned and are operated under Forest
Service regulations. There are 116 winter sports
areas that'show an actual use of less than 1,000
visits each year; 86 areas, 1,000 to 5,000 each; 41
areas, 5,000 to 25,000 each; and 11 areas. over
25,000 each.

As the people discovered the recreation re-
sources of the forests, provision had to be made
for fire protection and the construction of sanitary
facilities. Specific areas were developed to accom-
modate the people so they would not be scattered
indiscriminately throughout the forests, thereby
endangering themselves and others as well as the
forests. Many pe0ple enjoy the forest environ—
ment and the climatic changes it affords, yet they
do not like to camp. Those who wanted more
comfort finally demanded resorts, hotels and sum—
mer homes. Others demanded more scenic roads,
hiking trails, horseback trails, skiing areas, organi-
zation camps and swimming areas. In meeting all
these demands Forest Service has attempted to '
keep all improvements appropriate to the forest
environment.

Quite a few recreation facilities in the National
Forests are constructed by private interests. The
Forest Service permits such developments when
they are needed for public enjoyment and when
they can be installed without damage to public
recreation. Resorts, ski lifts, cabin camps and or-
ganization camps are among the facilities most
often built in this way. The Appalachian Trail
Conference and the Federation of Western Out-
door Clubs have erected overnight shelters in some
of the National Forests for hikers.

Who Uses the Forests for Recreation

Forest recreation is available to all people in-
cluding those of low income, because use of most
facilities is free. However, those desiring higher
class accommodations, such as hotels, or ‘special
services, such as horseback riding, will not be dis-
appointed since these are also provided at many

areas.

589

A questionnaire, prepared by the Forest Service
was filled out by 25,000 heads of families or inde—
pendent individuals who visited the Forests in
1937, and here are some of the facts revealed:
18 percent were persons with an annual income
of $1,000 a year or less; 49 percent had between
$1,000 and $2,000 a year; 22 percent, $2,000 to
$3,000; 8 percent, $3,000 to $5,000, and only 3
percent were persons with more than $5,000 a
year income.* These facts tend to support the
sound policy of our forest administrators in their
desire to supply high class yet low cost recreation
to everyone!

Number of Recreation Visits

Everyone seems to agree that
Americans everywhere are going
into shorter work weeks and
greater leisure. Even before the
war, vacation and pleasure travel
was close to second place in the
nation’s industries as Americans
raced to spend between four and
five billion dollars annually! We
know it to be a fact that the war
made many million servicemen
and women extremely conscious
of the importance of recreation in
balanced living. With the pent up
feelings and longing for adventure
and travel on the part of untold
numbers of Americans who stayed
home during the war, we can
safely predict a tremendous in-
crease in forest recreation. In
using figures to indicate the pa-
tronage of forest recreation areas
the number of visits is recorded.
If one person visited an area more
than once during the year, that
person might be counted several
times in the aggregate number of
visits recorded during the year.
These counts are obtained by
making spot-check counts, since'
few areas have full-time attend-
ants. Since 1941 represents the
last normal year before the war,
visitations for that year are indi-

cated below as follows:

Camp and Picnic Areas. 9,000,000
Winter Sports Areas . . . . . . . 1,500.000

10,500,000

*National Forest Vacations. (A pre-war

publicationLU. S. Dept. of Agriculture,
Forest Serwce.

 

 

590

 

Organization Camps . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. 240,000
Resorts and Hotels . . . . . . . .  . . . . . ..1,900,000
Summer Homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 600,000
Other areas, hunting, fishing . . . . . . . . . .4,760,000
————-—-——— 7.500.000
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,000,000

In addition ‘ to the visits to the several areas
indicated above, there were 28,000,000 visits made
by people who used highways and roads, primarily
to enjoy the forest environment. This latter figure
is based upon conservative estimates.

Pilchuck TrailI Mt. Baker National Forest

U. 5. Forest Service Photo

RECREATION

 

Varieties of Activities Possible

Scenically and climatically the
National Forests have almost every
known variety of geography. From
the cypress swamps of the south to
the great spruce and redwood for-
ests of the west, every recreation
preference can be met. Nature
lovers will find the geologic variety
as diverse — from the desert

sands to the eternally frozen alpine
peaks!

The “Heart” of Forest Recreation

The very “heart” of the National
Forests’ exhilarating recreation
program—as the reader would ex-
pect—includes motoring, picnick—
ing, camping, hiking, mountain _
climbing, swimming, canoeing, hunting, fishing,
horseback riding, nature study, camera hunting,
and all sorts of winter sports such as skating, ski—
ing and tobogganing. 'While it is not the policy
to cater to the whims of the so—called experts and
professionals in recreation, even they will find ade—
quate challenge in the facilities provided!

Sometimes, and usually in relation to an outside
adjoining community, a few golf courses, baseball
fields and tennis courts will be found but they are
exceptions and not the rule in the Forests. Oc-
casionally in connection with camp grounds, soft-
ball fields, volley ball courts, children’s play-
grounds and horseshoe pitching lanes will be found.
All varieties of indoor recreation programs are
available in the resort hotels and the pavilions,
most of which are privately owned. Movies are
shown while dances and parties are frequently
scheduled.

While Forest Service sometimes charges nom-
‘inal operating or maintenance fees for the use of
their organization camps, and they levy charges
for special permits when people wish to build in-
dividual summer homes, the use of most recrea—
tional facilities is free and restrictions are limited
to those necessary for the protection of the users,
the public and the Forests. The Forest Service
allows reasonable charges to be made for the use
of facilities Operated by private concessionaires.
While Forest Service does not organize recreation
or sponsor recreation programs, they do attempt
to meet the approved needs of those who demand
recreation facilities when money for such'improve—
ments is available. _

Much ,of the recreation in the forest areas is in-
dividual in nature but there are many organized

FEBRUARY 1947

 

Youth hostelers in White Mountain National Forest

groups that conduct special outings—as an ex—
ample, the “Trail Rider” trips, conducted by the
American Forestry Association. With their nat—
ural areas, their virgin acres, their geological,
archeological, historical and scenic wonders, the
National Forests are most attractive to the recre—
ationists who love the greater things of the world
-—-not made by man!

Motoring and Hiking

Motoring and hiking are among the most popu-
lar recreational activities in the National Forests.
Easily accessible routes of greatest scenic attrac-
tion are selected in laying out new roads. The
Chief of Forest Service in his 1945 Statistical Re-
port indicates that 24,354 miles of highways and
136,083 miles of forest development roads for a
total of 168,083 miles have already been de—
veloped. Since there are 168,676Imiles of trails,
a total of 329,113 miles of roads and trails provide
a thrilling challenge to the new car owner or the
hiking enthusiast! If the reader were a good hiker
and walked 10 miles a day, seven days a week and
365 days a year, it would require him more than
90 years of hiking to cover the presently developed
roads and trails!

Organization Camps

Organization camps are encouraged in the Na-
tional Forests to provide low cost outdoor recrea-
tion for thousands. Two types are recognized:
( 1) Those built by Forest Service and used, for

591

 

U. S. F orest Service Photo

Clubhouse in Casfor River Ranger Districf

example, by organizations which sponsor groups
of underprivileged children. There are 54 such
camps which use 817 acres. These camps have a
capacity of 5,000. (2) Those built, owned and
operated by organisationswsuch as Boy Scouts,
4-H Clubs, or cities, for example. There are 311
such camps and they occupy 6,600 acres and have
a capacity of 28,000.

Cabin Camping for Families

The Forest Service has the policy of leasing
cabin sites at nominal rates to individuals in cer-
tain areas of the National Forests not needed for
public recreation or other uses. More than 13,000
summer homes have been built in the National

Forests. Thirty thousand acres comprise the sites
I for these homes. Private or exclusive use of forest
lands rates a low priority and public use a high
priority. Campers everywhere in the Forests are
asked to be careful of fires, to keep camps clean,
to protect trees from human damage, to avoid
posting signs and to obey all the rules of sanita-
tion. Cabins and other structures built in the For-
ests must always be appropriate to the environ-
ment and this is guaranteed by Forest Service ap-
proval of plans before start of construction.

Boating and Swimming

With 70,000 miles of streams and thousands of
ponds and lakes, swimming and boating take on
real significance. Forest. Service .has improved
streams and lake beaches for swimming and boat-

592

ing. They have built dams, in-
stalled diving boards and depth
markers, built rafts, constructed
bath houses, and provided life
guard services. There are 201
swimming areas in the National
Forests, occupying 890 acres with
a capacity sufficient to 'accom—
modate 36,000 persons at one time.

Hunting and Fishing

\Vith the return of millions of
veterans who have learned to live
out of doors and to use firearms
skillfully, hunting as well as fishing
will-attract thousands of new Sports-
men to the good hunting and fish-
ing spots in the National Forests.
The lofty, rugged mountains, the

' tumbling mountain streams and the
cold clear mountain lakes lured 2,057,000 hunters
and fishermen to the National Forests in the year
1945—about 700,000 more than in the year 1944.
In 1945 there were 20 percent more fishermen in
the New Mexico and Arizona region than in the
previous year; in the inter-mountain region, 26

percent. In the eastern forests the trend was the
same.

Wildlife Management Division

W'ork of the Wildlife Management Division in-
creases the recreation opportunities for many
sportsmen and other lovers of animal life..- For
instance, with the cooperation of the states and
local groups, tons and tons of legal size fish are
planted yearly to keep happy fishermen who fre-
quent the National Forests. Workers in this di-
vision see to it that all desirable animals get a
fair deal in the forests. They encourage more
hunting to “thin out” the ones that become too
prolific. They “plant” others to bolster a group
that is dying out. They concern themselves with
the condition of the range, the’ food supply of
animals, the pests that attack plant food and ani-
mal life—in short they are “the keepers” of the
animals we all like to see when we visit the forests.

The 1,036,000 big and small game hunters and
the 1,922,000 fishermen in the National Forests
are greatly indebted to the efficient work of the
alert workers in the Wildlife Management Division
of the Forest Service Bureau. These men not only
see that a proper habitat is provided for their wild-
life but they restock the streams and the lakes and
capture animals where a surplus exists and plant
them where they are needed, always trying to

RECREATION

O

l

 

retain that fine balance between the sources of
sustenance and the appetites of their charges.

Camera Hunters

Camera “hunters” as well as “real” hunters are
thrilled at the frequent sight of upland game birds
and common and rare waterfowl that live in the
forests all or part of the year. Camera hunters
find almost unlimited oportunities to record their
interest in all departments of nature study recrea-
tion—in subjects ranging from the botanical,
archeological, biological or geographical! The for—
ests are a picture man’s paradise!

Wilderness Areas

Recreationists who are looking for freedom,
clear air, bright clouds, cold, clear water and per-
haps an escape from a complex if not bewildering
civilization, will find all that and more in the 76
National Forest Wilderness areas. Some 14,000,000
acres or about 8 percent of the Forests have been
set aside for this purpose. Seventy-two such areas
were established by June 1941 in 12 (mostly west—
ern) states. Twenty-eight exceed 100,000 acres,
each so classified as “wilderness” areas and 42 have
5,000 to 100,000 acres and are called “wild” areas.
These areas are almost completely undeveloped,
free of nearly all artificial influence and reached
usually only by trail or water. The American
Forestry Association of Washington, D. C., spon-
sors “trail riding” trips through some each year.

Good hikers not familiar with the areas are
urged to use reliable guide .services. Some prefer
pack horses for such trips or a single burro with
pack outfit. These areas are usually high altitude
acres and the “going” is often tough, calling for

ate near some of these areas and feature trips into
the wilds. Adventure, exercise, a good appetite,
robust health and a great exhilaration of Spirit can

. all be realized at little cost by those seeking wil—

derness recreation !

Cooperation with State Forestry Agencies

State forestry departments are .separate from
Federal Forest Services. The Forest Service co-
operates with the states in sharing fire fighting
cost, in technical work, and in recreation planning.
They make their services and technical informa-
tion available to farmers who have forests. There

are 13,400,000 acres in 732 state forest units dis-
tributed in 39 states. Other state-owned forest
lands aggregate 10,124,000 acres and 1,000,000

FEBRUARY 1947

acres of federal-owned lands are under lease to the
states for management. The state forest units and
the government-owned forests are often planned
together in providing the needed recreation facili—
ties for a city or district. Some states have exten-
sive game preserves—New York has 2,404,000
acres in two state forest parks, held in a natural
state primarily for recreation use.

Community Forests and Recreation*

Community forests are an old and popularly ac-
cepted part of forest conservation. Some have been
used for many years to help reduce local taxes by
yielding profitable timber crops. T hey also have
been very useful in affording watershed protection
and others have been more than incidentally used
as recreation centers, especially those nearer the
larger cities.

It is quite generally accepted today that the re-
building of natural forest resources should start
near the home in the local communities. These
forests have definite social and educational advan-
tages to the communities that own them. Citizens
near them develop a sense of pride as they assume
responsibility for the planting of such forests and
their maintenance later.

Extent of Community Forests

Some local forests are known as town forests
and others as village, municipal, city,°county, city
watershed, school, h03pital, church or memorial
forests. All of these may be grouped together and
called community forests. More.than 20 states
have passed acts dealing with some phase of com-
munity forest development. The community for-
est movement has spread throughout the country
until many are found in all sections of the United
States today. As early as 1939 New York, for
instance, had 579 such projects containing 200,000
acres-on which more than 70,000,000 trees have
been planted, mostly on abandoned farm lands. In
Massachusetts the state provides trees free for
planting in town forests and the State Forester co—
operates by making simple working plans and by
giving advice regarding the management of these
areas. In 1939 this state alone had 177 community
forests which covered an area of 180,000 acres. In
New Hampshire, where the movement was first
started, there were 102 units in 1939 and more
than 2,000,000 trees had been given by the state
for planting in various town forests. Pennsylvania

had 134 community forests in 1939 with an area
of about 50,000 acres on which more than 5,000,000

‘—

'Infnrmntion from Community Forts-ts, U. 3. Dept. of Agriculture.
Forest Service. 1939. ' -

 

593

trees have been
planted. The larg-
est community for-
est in the country
is near Seattle,
Washington, Wis-
consin has report-
ed 25 county for—
ests which include
1,746,647acres. In
1939 incomplete
reports indicated
that there were ap-
p r o x i m a t e l y
3,000,000 acres of
land on which
m o r e t h a n I 46
million trees have
been planted. It is
estimated that
there are more
than 2,000 com-
munity forests in
the country today.
It is also interest--
ing to note that
about three and
one—quarter mil—
lion farmers own
their own wood-
lands, which bring
natural recreation
areas close to
many people.

Community for-
ests do much more"
than provide
needed timber re-
sources for towns, cities and rural communities.
Under the multiple-use plan of management, peo—
ple derive great pleasure from the use of these
areas. Some of them are used as outdoor labora-
tories for the study of forestry, botany and wildlife
and a large percentage of them are used exten-
sively for recreation purposes. In many forests
hiking, horseback riding, picnicking, swimming,
canoeing and skating in winter are very popular.
A few more are equipped for such sports as tennis,
baseball, softball and volley ball. In forests not
having natural waterways, dams have been con-
structed to conserve water and to provide better
fishing and «water sports.

While community forests do produce consider-
able revenue to many towns, counties and com-
munities, the recreation values derived from the

594

 

U. S. Forest Service Photo

Fisherman. Plamas National Forest, California

same are almost immeasurable. Forests tend to
beautify many communities, and usually raise
property values nearby. By cleaning up run-down
land areas, improving streams and creating new
pools and lakes, fishing has become excellent in
many communities. As the trees and c0ver crops
have developed in these forests, they have become
attractive habitats for such birds and animals as
quail, partridges, rabbits, squirrels, chipmunks and
raccoons. This has made good hunting within
easy reach of town and city residents.

0

Starting Community Forests

Community. forests are frequently promoted by
luncheon clubs, forestry and conservation associa—

nECREATION

|

tions, Boy Scout Councils, American Legion Posts,
garden clubs and similar organizations. Some have
been started by school superintendents, mayors and
other public spirited citizens. Those wishing to
start community forests should consider the guid-
ance which can be had from state foresters. It is
also recOmmended that responsible committees be
appointed in such communities and that they work
out long-range plans with state foresters, who can
give competent help and advice in making techni-
cal arrangements.

For those interested in starting community for-
ests it is of interest to know that land unsuitable
for farming or other purposes but suitable for
forestry purposes can be acquired in many sections
of the country for prices ranging from $2 to $12
per acre. ,When we consider how the forests in
this country have been chopped, burned and de-
pleted for over 300 years, the significance of the
community forest movement can be greatly appre-
ciated. While it takes 40 to 60 years or more for
trees to reach merchantable size, it should be re-
membered that during this growing period the
forests can be used a great deal for recreation pur-
poses and as habitats for wildlife. It should also
be encouraging to those wishing to start commu-
nity forests to realize that there are millions of
acres of idle, submarginal and waste land and much
of it lies within from one to 20 miles of cities and
villages. Much of this land has been cut over and
otherwise made relatively useless until it has be-
come tax delinquent. Often the owners of such
acres are willing to deed them to public agencies
to be developed for forestry purposes and held in
trust for future generations.

Information and Education Service

The photographic section of the Forest Service’s
Division of Information and Education has a rep-

resentative file of 500,000 photographs showing,

the work of the Forest Service. Thousands of

these are beautiful recreation pictures. School li- '

brarians and others affiliated with interested or-
ganizations may secure prints if they are used for
educational purposes. Recreation folders, posters,
exhibit maps, lantern slides, radio scripts and
motion pictures may also be secured or borrowed
for general educational use. The folders have a
listing of the areas and the types of recreation
available. They may be secured from individual
forest supervisors. An attractive book entitled
Forest Vacations is published by Forest Service.
It—--with the periodic news releases—acquaints the
public with the recreation opportunities available.

FEBRUARY 1947

Recreation Future of Forests Insured

The recreation opportunities available through
Forest Service will become much greater because
of the increase in public forest areas and the growth
in recreation facilities, as contemplated by Forest
Service pe0ple themselves. \Vhile a few thousand
acres have been added since 1945, there are mil-
lions .of acres of cut-over and burned-over land
that should become publicly owned and then re-
forested. Large watershed areas in the west should
be acquired and flood control projects completed.

Areas now improved for recreation in the For-
ests are inadequate to accommodate present use on
a sustained basis. Heavy traffic destroys the
ground cover so that the areas become dusty and
exposed to soil erosion, and the trees become
mutilated and the shrub-screen ragged. Forest
Service estimates show that the 4,300 camp and
picnic areas with 34,000 units need to be expanded
to at least 60,000 units, so that over-use of present
areas can be eliminated and the areas saved from
destruction. It is believed also that the winter
sports areas should be trebled if the estimated use
of the future is correct.

The Army had 1,250,000 acres of land for mili-
tary use during the war and that is chiefly valuable
for National Forest purposes. This land should be
added to the National Forests. There are many
railroad sections of land that spot some of the
National Forests and these lands should be
acquired.

The Forest Service states that a large improve-
ment program is needed on public and private
lands before forests can make their full contribu-
tion to the national welfare. “Estimates recently
envisage the expediture of $2,215,000,000 in a
program of public forest work that would keep
163,000 men busy for about six years.” This work
would restore depleted forests and ranges, build
roads and firebreaks, .provide good ranges and
prepare for a greatly increased volume of recrea-
tion use.

\Vhile long-range planning for recreation is
closely related to the general growth in areas and
developments of the forests in general, we must not
forget that progress and expansion are dependent
upon the amount of money appropriated by

Congress.

Anticipated expansions for recreation building
and personnel extension were disallowed in the
1946-1947 budget by Congress. However, the For-
est Service people themselves are dreaming dreams
and laying sound plans for desired expansion. Let
us, as citizens and as recreation enthusiasts, hope
that these dreams will come true and soon!

595

 

WALTER L. scorr

Committee secretary I  

Committee on Recreation

 

M. L. WILSON
U. S. D. A.

        

-  _ 1-: '~ i -, mwsgm...w¢i{eiaa.d,w, W, .6...“
J. DOUGLAS ENSMINGER ALBERT M. DAY _ LIONEL A. WALFORD
U. S. D. A. Fish and Wildlife Service Fish and Wildlife Service

AST SEPTEMBER representatives of several federal agencies providing substantial peacetime recreation

L services met with the Hon. J. A. Krug, Secretary of the Interior, presiding, to discuss inter-agency

cooperative planning and self-coordination of their recreation programs. This informal discussion

led to the organization of the Federal Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation. (See RECREATION, De-
cember 1946). The following agencies are at present members of the Committee:

Extension Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture .
Forest Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture
National Park Service, Department of the Interior
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior
thce of Education, Federal Security Agency
Children’s Bureau, Federal Security Agency

In a discussion of the value of this cooperative effort, Secretary Krug spoke of the increasing im-
portance of recreation, of the value of the work being done along recreation lines by the various depart-
inents of the Federal Government, of the greater work which needs to be done, of the desirability of clearing
plans of work without in any way interfering with the freedom of action on the part of the various
departments.

"' 'At “a later meeting Secretary'Krug reaffirmed his interest in the success of the Committee, stating,
“I want all members to know that 1f there is any time I can be of help, 1 want to be of help. I am very

596 ‘ rRECRHJLTI‘ION

 

 

 

JOHN W. STUDEBAKER
Office of Education

 

HON. J. A. KRUG

Secretory RALL I. GRIGSBY
Department of the Interior Office of Education

 

 

” o A. IKER HEBERT EVISON CONRAD L. WIRTH
Forest Service Notional Pork Service National Pork Service

sure the membership of this Committee will have the complete support of all the bureaus of the de-
partments represented on this Commitee. I have a very deep interest in the success of this Committee.
and when I say I am anxious to cooperate with you, I mean it. In making our kind of democracy work,
recreation has a tremendous part.” '

The National Recreation Association understands that the work of the Cmnmittee will involve:

Full knowledge of current recreation services, of authorized and definitely planned expansions.
and of desirable future extensions of authority and services.

Discovery and facing of existing gaps in meeting accepted federal responsibility in the recreation
field.

Self-coordination and cooperative planning.

Putting united power behind an advanced federal recreation program.

Where long-established departments have proved their spirit. their CfllCiCllC), and have developed
deep traditions, there is an asset in public confidence already established which ought not to be lightly
cast aside. The establishment of an inter-agency committee conserves what has gone before and what
has been built up carefully over a long period of years.

Manv with differing points of view will rejoice that this additional step has been taken in the
federal recreation field. The National Recreation Association believes that much good ought to come
from the work of this federal recreation committee.

FEBRUARY 1947 - 597

Recreation

in the National Park SerVice

". . . . I love thy rocks and rill:
Thy woods and trampled hills. . . .”

to the bill creating Yellowstone National
Park on March I, 1872, the hearts of sev—
eral pioneer explorers were gladdened, and their

WHEN PRESIDENT GRANT affixed his signature

unceasing toil to gain this accomplishment was re-J.

warded. The area embraced by this first National
Park was thought to be first visited by a white
man, John Colter, a soldier who had secured his
discharge from the Lewis and Clark Expedition,
in 1806. Other individuals and parties visited the
wonders of this mysterious place before the Folsom-
Cook Expedition of 1869. This was the first real
exploring expedition in the Yellowstone Park
region of which anything like a complete and au-
thentic report is preserved. No national move—
ment or interest resulted directly from the F01-
som-Cook Expedition, although David E. Folsom
was the first to suggest that this wonderful region
be set aside as a public park.

The Washburn-Doane, Expedition into this
region followed in 1870. -This private expedition
was promoted by Col. Samuel T. Hauser and
Nathaniel P. Langford. The publication of Lt.
Doane’s report in March, 1871 was the first official
Government account of exploration of the Yellow—
stone Park region. One night as the members of
this expedition were sitting around a blazing camp-
fire discussing the wonders they had seen, Cor-
‘nelius Hedges, a member of the party, presented
a plan. He suggested that they all waive their
personal claims to the land and seek to have the
area set aside for all time as a reserve for the use
and enjoyment of all the people. The idea was
immediately favored by all but one man.*

After this campfire decision had been made so
enthusiastically by these men, steps for carrying out
the project to create Yellowstone National Park

were taken, principally by Cornelius Hedges.
Nathaniel P. Langford and William N. Clagett.

 

*Early History of Yel'lowstone National Park and It: Relation to
National Park Policies, by Louis C. Cramton. U. S. Dept. of
Interior, National Park Service. 1932.

598

AMERICA.

Clagett had been elected to Congress, so he was
in a good position to boost the idea. Geological
surveys of the area were made in 1871 and to-
gether with photographs taken by William H.
Jackson for Dr. F. V. Hayden were used in con-
vincing senators and congressmen of the plan’s
value. The bill creating Yellowstone National
Park was the first legislation by the Government
to conserve land for National Park purposes. The
word “conservation,” usually applied to natural

' resources like coal and oil, was now applied to an

area set aside to provide direct human enjoyment
--—recreation.

On June 30, 1864, Congress had passed an act
that granted Yosemite Valley and the Mariposa
Big Tree Grove to the State of California for pub-
lic recreational use. Since 1905 both these areas
have been a part of Yosemite National Park which

was established in 1890.

Early Growth of National Park System

The United States had a system of: national
parks for many years before it had a National
Park Service. Yosemite, General Grant and
Sequoia National Parks in California were estab-
lished in 1890, and Mount Rainier National Park
was set aside nine years later, in 1899.

Even before establishment of Yellowstone Na-
tional Park in 1872 as “a public park or pleasur-
ing-ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the
people,” the Government had shown some interest
in public ownership of lands valuable from a social
use standpoint. An act of Congress in 1832 es—
tablished the Hot Springs Reservation in Arkansas
(which became a National Park in 1921), although
this area was set aside not for park purposes, but
because of the medicinal qualities believed to be
possessed by its waters. '

National Park Service Created

In the early days, the national parks were ad—
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior, but the
national monuments were assigned to three cabinet

RECREATION

 

officers. Those of military significance were placed
under the Secretary of War; those within national
forests, under the Secretary of Agriculture for ad-
ministration by the United States Forest Service of
the Department of Agriculture; and the remainder,
the greatest number, under the Secretary of the
Interior for administration with the national parks.

Secretary of'the Interior Franklin K. Lane re-
'quested Stephen T. Mather, in 1915, to accept a
position as his assistant and take charge of park
problems. It was not until 1916 that President
Wilson signed the bill that created the National
Park Service as a-separate bureau in the Depart-
ment of the Interior. This act directed the Ser-
vice to “promote and regulate” the public use of
those areas, and to “conserve the scenery and the
natural and historic objects and the wildlife therein
and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in
such manner and by such means as will leave them
unimpaired for the enjoyment of future genera-
tions.” *

No effort will be made to trace all the historical
details in the development of the National Park
Service as we know it today nor to mention all
those early pioneers who fought to establish a
strong park system. '

The Act of I936

An Act giving the National Park Service broad
new powers was approved by Congress on June
23, 1936. This act authorized the Secretary of the
Interior to conduct through the National Park
Service a comprehensive study “. . . of the public

park, parkway, and recreational-area programs of.

the United States, and 'of the several states and
political subdivisions thereof, and of the lands
throughout the United States which are or may be
chiefly valuable as such areas, but no such study
shall be made in any state without the consent and
approval of the state officials, boards, or depart-
ments having jurisdiction over such lands and park
areas. . . .” It was the intention of Congress that
the study should “. . . . provide data helpful in
developing a plan for coordinated and adequate
public park, parkway and recreational-area facili-
ties for the people of the United States.” One of
the values of the study as stated in the Act was:
“For the purpose of developing coordinated and
adequate public park, parkway and recreational-
area facilities for the people of the United States,
the Secretary is authorized to aid the several states
and political subdivisions thereof in planning such
areas therein, and in cooperating with one another
to accomplish these ends. Such aid shall be made

 

*An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other
purposes. approved August 25, 1916, (39 Stat. 535).

FEBRUARY 1947

available through the National Park Service act-

ing in cooperation with such state agencies or
agencies of political subdivisions of states as the
Secretary deems best. . . 1”

Wartime Use of National Parks

Passing quickly from early history to recent
happenings—according to Newton B. Drury, Di-
rector of National Park Service, had it not been
for the availability of the national parks for use by
the armed forces during World War II, the Army,
Navy and other war agencies would have found it
necessary to spend over $30,000,000 for land. Al-
though approximately 2,400 war-use permits were
issued during the war, very little damage to the
parks was reported. As a result of this use of the
parks by the armed forces, thousands of service
personnel were introduced to a new type of recre-
ation in the most attractive recreation spots in the
world. Needless to say, many will want to return

and bring their friends and complete their con-
quests.

Location of National Parks

From a geographical point of view the parks are
found in almost every section of the United States,
and in Hawaii and Alaska. It is true that the
largest number and by far the greatest acreage of
park land lies west of the Mississippi River. This
seems quite natural since the East was fairly well
developed when the first national park was estab-
lished in 1872. Then, too, the vast wilderness
areas and the rugged mountain ranges were not
adapted for farming and, consequently, were not
occupied by the early pioneer settlers. These vast
expanses embracing many natural wonders are
ideal, however, for utilization as national parks
and monuments.

Policies

The National Park Service, as will be shown
later, administers four types of areas: the scenic,
the historic, the scientific and the parkways. It
is a policy of the National Park Service to preserve
in unspoiled condition the natural scenery and
peculiar characteristics of each area. No commer-
cialization of fishing in the parks is permitted, no
hunting is allowed, and no exploitation of timber
or other natural resources is tolerated. Specimens
cannot be removed except under supervision of
Service officials for museums and other approved

purposes.
Containing the supreme in Interesting scenery

and specific objects, it is the policy of the National
Park Service to promote recreation and education

opportunities for all the people.

599

Recreation and Education Interests Protected

Recreation and education of the types that sat-
isfy the scientific, historical, physical, and spiritual
hungers of people can be had by a hike or a tour
and study of national park areas so richly en-
dowed by nature. The National Park Service is
constantly alert in protecting these irreplaceable
wonders for present and future generations. N oth-
ing in the way of man-made improvements is
developed that would in any way weaken one’s
enjoyment or destroy nature’s spectacular and
inspirational displays found so abundantly in the
national parks and monuments!

Other policies of the National Park Service are
to render maximum service suitable to all pocket-
books ; to limit fees and charges wherever possible;
to provide roadways and trails for convenience and
safety, located in places that protect the beauty of
the landscape; to provide essential services such
as sleeping, eating and other accommodations; to
protect against all encroachments by private inter—
ests ; and to keep essential controls in the hands

of Government.

More Visitors in I946

People visit the national parks for refreshment
of mind and spirit. They engage in a large number
of recreation and education experiences while
gaining that refreshment. National Park Service of-
flcials experienced during the war-free 1946 season
an increase in visitors over the previous record
year, 1941. The delayed chance for thousands to
see their first national park had at long last come,
and those millions of people who formerly made
regular calls to these meccas of beauty, rest and
relaxation returned at the first opportunity. When
automobile production liquidates the backlog of
present orders for new cars, park ochials expect
to record a number of visitors that will exceed the
greatest previous year.

Servicemen as Visitors

During the war, the national parks served thous-
ands of those in the armed forces and people work-
ing in the war industries who needed recreational
experiences to bolster their morale and working
efficiency. During the war, the National Park Ser-
vice areas, with their facilities for rich recreation
experiences, inspired thousands of new visitors
with their fairyland of unending wonders found
only in our national parks! War weary veterans
who had lost resilience and zest made quick and
lasting recoveries after repose in the quiet serenity
found in these havens of peaceful beauty.

600

Acreage of Units of the National Park System
Grouped According to Classification*

Federal
Type of Area Number Land Acres
National Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 27 11,062,455.76

National Historical Parks . . . . . . . . 4 8,159.28

National Monuments . . . . . . . . . . . .. 86 9,283,794.34

National Military Parks . . . . . . . .. 11 24,012.94

National Battlefield Parks . . . . . .. 1 684,44

National Battlefield Sites . . . . . . . .. 7 24832

National Historic Sites . . . . . . . . . .. 10 8,176.33

National Memorials . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 9 2,004.63

National Cemeteries . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 217.01

National Parkways . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3 55,019.05

National Capital Parks . . . . . . . . . . . 1 27,790.36 I

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .169 20,472,562.46

*The National Park System and Other Areas Administered by
the National Park Service, June 30, 1946, U. S. Dept. of the '
Interior, National Park Service.

{‘

As indicated above, . . . on June 30, 1946, the '
National Park System contained 169 areas in vari—
ous categories. In addition, four recreation areas
are administered by the National Park Service
under cooperative agreements with other federal
agencies. F or the Bureau of Reclamation, Depart-
ment of the Interior, the Service administers
Boulder Dam Recreational Area in Arizona and
Nevada, and Shasta and Millerton Lakes Recrea—
tional Areas in California; and for the Corps of
Engineers, War Department, Lake Texoma Rec:
reational Area in Texas and Oklahoma. The Ser—
vice also administers nine recreatiorial demonstra-
tion areas pending their transfer to other agencies
or until their permanent status can be determined.”
The total area of the National Park Service is con-
siderably less than I percent of the total area of
the United States, Alaska, and Hawaii.

Visitors to Areas Adminstered by the
National Park Service*

 

Visitors to: 1941 1943 1946
National Parks . . . . . . . . . 8,388,909 2,172,706 9,351,973
National Monuments  3,684,320 1,590,168 3,571,882
National Historical Parks 1,078,541 355,923 886,404
National Historic Sites.. 186,419 211,222 742,936
National Battlefield Parks,

Sites and Cemeteries.. 211,485 57,834 158,633
National Military Parks

and Cemeteries . . . . .. 2,026,380 418,978 1,341,392
National Memorials

(other than in National

Capital Parks) . . . . . .. 848,985 168,805 690,981
National Capital Parks

Memorials . . . . . . . . . .. 2,821,634 1,563,500 2,671,112
National Parkways .. . .. I 965,507 137,861 1,095,733
National Recreational

Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 838,246 231,752 1,171,736

Grand Total . . . . . . ..21.050,426 6,908,749 21,682,782

vi
*Visitors to Area: Administered by the National Park Service,

United States Department of the Interior, National Park;
Serwce. ‘

. Facilities .

The subject of recreation facilities is touched-
upon frequently throughout this article as policies, .
programs and planning are described. Therefore, J

. \
RECREATION"

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

  
 

I
.4‘

 
 
  

  

   

... - fl. I,
23;: _..' Lg...”
-
- -:= ' , gas:
...-f
,- .. r .5
f1 = E
‘ _ .. —
- . _. . —
_ - - .—
-— :3’ " ‘.J
r; _ — - =
_ _
g2 '
...

 
  
 
    
  

:1
1

[LI

 

ll

llllilllllillllll.||l:¢lil

wm \ \mw
mum-r n m I

  
 
 

H'-
qun n \“\
I1m

Illltl

... J ‘7 “fr YT”
Illii; W‘hli'.*limlhllliil

})lltli

uth

   
 
  

 

'Ji‘

 
   

Macaw ;

r-—.‘P‘—l——‘
-—-_

..,,.-__ VA
*"é-T-w .

lliliiinlhll ” ’N I '

 

 

.5
\l}

1
l
l

i.

        
  
 
   

I!”

Introducing the finest basketball in the history of
the game, the new X820 Custom Built. This sen-
sational ball is the result of 24 years of unending
research —— its performance proves its heritage.

FEBRUARY 1947

the treatment here of the subject

will be limited.
Since 1941, when the war

started, relatively few recreation
facilities have been developed in
the national parks and the .only
large park area established since
that time was the Big Bend Na-
tional Park, in Texas, on June
12,1944.

There is no intent on the part
of park executives to install rec—
reation facilities similar to those
so commonly developed in city
recreation departments, such as
golf courses, playground appara-
tus, baseball fields, 'shufHeboard
courts, horseshoe courts and the
like, although Yosemite has a
“pitch and putt” golf course and
a swimming pool. Also, Mam-
moth Cave has four shufHeboard
courts and a few tennis courts,
but facilities of this type are gen—
erally considered inappropriate in
national parks. Sometimes a few
such facilities came with land ac-
quisitions by the Service. Noth-
ing of any sort which would tend
t lose to any area its inspira-
tional appeal will be constructed
by the National Park Service.

Camping and Picnicking Facilities

At the present time, there are
9,319 free campsites which ac—
commodate 37,276 people at a
given time.* Also it is interesting to note that
there are 53 picnic areas of various sizes in the

national parks accommodating thousands of peo—
ple annually.

Overnight Accommodations

For the thousands of visitors to the national
parks who do not wish to camp out there are other
types of accommodations which are furnished by
concessioners under contract with the Department
of the Interior. In many cases these facilities have
been constructed by private capital in individual
parks at costs considerably in excess of a half
million dollars.

At the start of the 1946 season the tent and
cabin, lodge, and hotel accommodations in the na—

*January, 1947.

602

 

 

N atioml Park Service Photo

Skiing Yosemite National Park

tional parks afforded a total of 8,401 rooms, and.

they are capable of providing overnight sleeping
facilities for 19,890 persons.

Trails and Museums

There are about 6,000 miles of trails, including
combined foot and horse trails, and another 1,000
miles are planned. There are approximately 100
museums in the National Park System, including
historic house museums. Many of these buildings
house exhibits of great interest to nature study
people, so they are listed as recreation facilities.
The part played by the foot and horseback trails
in the recreation program is evident.

RECREATION

70»; 79mm. Sm PM W Toucunuwws . 

intark

 

 W,.| NTARK F EATU R ES

Cordura“ wound. Nine layers of materials
which produce proper action- preserve uni-

form shape' provide surer grip. This rugged
construction also makes WINTARK Foot-

balls moisture-proof, washable and abrasion

resistant.
*Reg. trademark of DuPont Co.

 

"People visit the national parks for refreshment of mind and spiri’r."

National Park Attractions Superb

Judged by any standards, the ,scenic, historic,
and the scientific features of the national parks are
in the gold—medal class—superb! One practically
exhausts the superlatives of our language when an
attempt is made to describe all these wonders!
The colors, the heights, the depths, the massive—
ness, the expansiveness, the freshness—so general
in the parks—challenge the visitor’s capacity for
the absorption and assimilation of the beauty,
grandeur and inspiration found everywhere.

Perpendicular buttresses of solid granite and
rocks nearly a billion years old are often passed in
stride by visitors—almost unnoticed or appreci-
ated. Lava rock, stiffened by cooling millions of
years ago, shows a history of shattering experi-

ences, when cone
tops were blown
sky high only to
create vast craters
later to house
many new cones
which ultimately
built up and be-
came fused into
still higher peaks
at tremendous al—
titudes.

Conirasfs in
Na’rional Park
Scenery

The person who
really loves out-
door xracations is
delighted with the
contrasts of land,
water and air
found in the parks.
From Telescope
Peak in Death
Valley National
Monument in C ali—
fornia, the visitor
can see the lowest
spot on the Ameri-
can continent, and
by looking in the
opposite direction
from the same
spot, can see ma-
jestic Mount
\Vhitney —— the
highest peak in
the United States. Froin burning desert sands,

one can travel in a few hours to the fur—coat alti-

U. 5. Forest Service Photo

tudes of rugged mountain ranges. From vast fiat
meadows with their deep forage grasses and
meandering streams, it’s only‘ a few steps to
steep narrow trails which lead to jagged peaks
and sheer waterfalls of 1,400 feet. From boiling
hot geysers to glaciers hundreds of feet thick, the
scenes come and go. From deep caves to lookout 7
pinnacles, the vistas can be varied almost at will. ‘
Fossils millions of years old imbedded deep in.
Rocky Mountain terrain are shaded by bluebells
less than one day old. Fawns and woolly cubs
stumble over petrified trees that block their paths
--—youth and old age—the aged and the youthful
everywhere l

RECREATION

 

 

 512 R
    __ ' I SOCCERBALL

   
   

 

   
    
  

V5R

VOLLEY BALL

BASKETBALL

SPORTING 60005 CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A Wilson 8- Co. Inc. Subsidiary)

 
 

LB'IO

BASKETBALL

Recreation Fundamental in National Parks

The dominant purpose of the National Park
Service is to safeguard the inspirational and spirit-
ual qualities of the magnificent areas they admin-
ister—always protecting the natural scenery and
guarding the scientihc and historical treasures
found therein. 3y maintaining the units of the
System in this way, people who come to see and
use them are immediately refreshed in mind, spirit,
and body. If recreation is interpreted in its broader,
“dictionary sense” as “the act of re-creating, or
the state of being re-created; refreshment of body
or mind after toil; diversion; amusement”——-then
recreation within the National Park System is
extremely significant.

From “A Study of the Park and Recreation
Problem of the United States”

In the book entitled A S tudy of the Park and
Recreation Problem of the United States, which
was issued in 1941 by the National Park Service,
United States Department of the Interior, we find
some interesting results of a study made by the
National Park Service in cooperation with the dif-
ferent states showing the use of state and national
parks and also indicating the activities which were
found to be most popular by those who visited the
parks. This study, completed just before the war,
showed thatr the people visiting the parks listed as
their favorite activities, touring or sight-seeing.
fishing, picnicking, and swimming. The activities
which were next in popularity included camping,
hiking, boating,
nature study,
sports and games,
and horseback rid-
ing. Hunting was
voted as one of
the most popular
activities of those
visiting the parks,
but it is interest-
ing to note in this
connection that
hunting is not per—
mitted in our na-
tional parks. Other
activities which
stood high in the
voting of visitors
included moun-
taineering, music,
drama, pageantry.
arts and crafts,
photography, as—

606

 

tronomy, sketching, painting, winter sports, his-
tory and archeology.

To many Americans, hiking, climbing, “pack-
ing-in,” and horseback riding afford the most
satisfying kinds of all recreation. They appeal
particularly to the strong, younger citizens who
are vigorous and adventurous by nature. These
activities are especially popular in and near the
national parks since they have not only quiet
woods, towering mountains, tumbling streams and
vast expansive deserts and plateaus, but they are
near‘other great wilderness areas in the national
forests nearby. In this study, the popularity of
these sports may be judged by the fact that I 52
groups with over 50,000 members now promote
such activities. This we must remember was prior
to 1941. In the questionnaires, 30 percent of those
indicating their preferences included one or more
of these activities as their favorites. National
Park Service authorities are finding that winter
sports are becoming increasingly popular and it is
their intention to add to the facilities for these
sports as rapidly as money can be found available.

Nature study programs have long been a special
feature in the national parks. The ranger natural-
ists are too well known to those who use the parks
to command much attention here. In the study it
was indicated that nature study has not been too
popular in the past. It is now becoming increas-

4-H Club members dancing Polish dances

U. S. D. A. Extension Service Photo

RECREATION

V2

TAKE A GOOD LOOK AT

ithin the paSt twelve months, almOSt every

leading magazine and newspaper in the

country has carried feature editorial material on

archery. These features refleCt the tremendous

surge of archery participation. For good editors

and publishers are always alert to trends and
popular interests. .

We suggest that every recreational director not
already building his program around the sport,
take a good look at archery. Archery has a strong,
universal appeal. Archery is for all ages, bOth
sexes, for the healthy and the infirm, the robust
and the recluse. Archery is a proved builder of
co-ordination, muscle, vision, perfect posture,

FEBRUARY 1947

 

and Steady nerves. And, be5t of all. archery is
true recreation.

You will find a Ben Pearson d -aler near you,
and you will be astonished at the beauty and
inexpensiveness of the archery tackle he displays.
Look him up soon. And meanwhile, for help in
forming an archery club, archery class, or in-
stalling an archery range, write Ben Pearson.
We maintain an advisory sen ice especially for

that purpose.

‘1

PINE BLUFF ARKANSAS \j’

I.

   

607

ineg pOpular. The national parks, providing as
they do such outstanding attractions for nature
lovers, make it possible for the park personnel to
encourage programs that enrich the lives of visit—
ors beyond words to describe. So popular has this
form of recreation become that in a few national
parks we now find junior nature study groups
meeting on regular schedules throughout the sea-
son. These young people become interested not
only in flowers, trees, and animals, but they are
finding, too, much interest in such subjects as
astronomy, geology and physiography. These
nature classes also provide many opportunities for
camera hunters.

Many visitors who have enjoyed recreation in
the national parks will remember the part music
played during their visit. Singing around a large
campfire after twilight uplifts the spirit of the tired
hiker. From such hours, campers gain new in-
spiration from these contacts with other people as
they sing well-known songs together. Campfire
programs in many national parks are enlivened by
native songs around the campfire. Indian groups
assist in this manner in such places as Glacier Na—
tional Park and Grand Canyon National Park.
Their dancing and music never fail to hold the
interest of their “pale-face” visitors.

Many people, interested primarily in art, find
almost unlimited subjects of interest in the na-
tional parks. Artists draw much inspiration from
natural subjects found there and they love to paint
birds, plants, and landscapes, while others confine
their artistic talent to photographing these superb
attractions. To quote directly from this park study:
“Patterns of leaves, ferns, snowflakes, ripples on
the sand and water are infinite. Shells, beetles and
insects of all descriptions display excellent ex-
amples of line symmetry, color, form, and rhythm.
The hills, the trees, clouds, sunset and large water
surfaces have inspired many of our art treasures.”

N 0 doubt the National Park Service recreation
program of the future will emphasize about the
same activities we now find in the parks. This.
then, will mean, in effect, that to increase the rec-
reation opportunities in the national parks, more
facilities will need to be developed for camping and
picnicking, more skiing areas opened up, more
museums and exhibits established, and more hotels,

cabins and lodges built for the accommodation of
visitors.
Q

Typical National Park Recreation

Recreation as found in the national parks follows
a definite pattern, just as city recreation depart-
ment activities tend to conform to patterns re-

608

garded as typical of city programs. To give the
reader a quick summary of such typical activities,
the following list is quite representative of park
programs everywhere:

Boating Special day programs
Camera hunting and parties
Campfire programs Picnicking
Talks Reading
Singing Reference libraries
Camping Storytelling
Tents Swimming
Cabins Trips
Lean-tos Guide—conducted
Fishing Auto caravan
Hiking Horseback
General trail . Pack mule
Mountain climbing \Vinter sports
Special Curling
Interpretive programs Hiking
History Skating
Archeology Skiing
Nature study Sleighing
Lodge programs Sliding “tin pants"
Fireplace parties Snowshoeing
Dancing Tobogganing
Singing

Other Recreation in Parks

In addition to the so-called typical national park
list of activities, there are several others that are
found in national parks occasionally but not fre-
quently enough to be regarded as typical. Here
are a few such activities, most of which are found
in only One or two parks:

Canoeing (Isle Royale) Launch riding

Cross-country skiing (Yellowstone)
(Lassen Volcanic) Sailing (Isle Royale)

F irefall ceremony Shufiieboard
(Yosemite) (Mammoth Cave)

Golf (Yosemite) Tennis

Health bathing (Mammoth Cave)

(Hot Springs) _

Camping

Camping partly satisfies the urge for travel and
the hunger for adventure as well as the need felt
for fresh air, and a new life in the woods away
from home. National parks everywhere are quite
well provided with facilities to accommodate the
camper who brings much of the needed equipment
but looks to the national parks for a camp site,
outdoor tables and benches, a fireplace, good water,
wood and sanitary facilities. ‘

Popular with Families

Families use these campgrounds by the thous-
ands. As mentioned before, there are 9,319 camp

sites in the national parks that will accommodate 7
more than 37,276 people at one time. Campers are 

assigned by a permit system that usually limits
their stay——-often to 30 days. Most of the camp«
grounds are very attractive, and they are used
constantly during the season. The National Park
Service owns and operates all camp grounds.

RECREATION

fl

f

 

When it’s modeled

 

HE OBJECTS SHOWN in the panel were modeled with
PLASTIC WOOD by students in the 7th, 8th and 9th grades
in the Herron Hill Junior High School, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

As the result of a search to discover a low-cost modeling medium

PLASTIC WOOD was selected as ideal for the purpose. No
preparation between classes was necessary. The modeled articles had

a permanent quality.

THE TEST COURSE was conducted over an 8-week period at
the Herron Hill Junior High School, using simple items available
in every home—~such as flexible wire, paper clips, small boxes,
coat hangers, beads, felt, colored cords and safety pins.

0 Designs were just drawn on cardboard, either by tracing or
free hand. PLASTIC WOOD was then added in thin layers as
the modeling progressed. In fashioning the belt the following
steps were taken. First, the design was drawn on a cardboard
milk bottle top or a similar piece of cardboard; second, PLASTIC
WOOD was applied in a thin layer to the underneath or back-
side of the disc; third, PLASTIC WOOD was modeled in a
thin layer around the design; and fourth, the design itself was
modeled in relief with PLASTIC WOOD.

O The holes through which the thin leather thongs are laced,
to hold the discs together, were made with a pin or a piece of
wire while the PLASTIC WOOD was still soft. When dry,
each section was sandpapered to a smooth finish, painted and
decorated. Any type of paint, nail polish, areoplane "dope" 0r
varnish is practical for a bright, colorful finish.

 

Sold Everywhere

   
  
   

FREE SAMPLE! If you would like to experiment with PLASTIC WOOD for
Classroom mOde'ing. we will be glad to send you samples of PLASTIC
WOOD and PLASTIC WOOD SOLVENT. Direct your request On your school
Stationery to: BOYLE-MIDWAY Inc., 22 East 40th St, New York 16, N.Y.

   

'Handles like putty . . . Harden: into wood!

A ctttULost Hair FILLER

FEBRUARY ' 1947

Boating

Boating of various kinds is available in several
national parks. Most parks provide prospective
guests with attractive folders describing park at-
tractions and giving services and charges so trips
can be well planned.

Hiking

The trails and roads that have been built in the
national parks during their 74 years of existence
have developed into the most interesting passage—
ways in America. Their winding courses over
6,000 miles afford the
public an opportunity to .
study and enjoy the
tremendous wonders of
the ages at close range
for the first time.

Varied Trails Meet
Diverse Wants.

Trips in the parks
are made to order for
every persons and every
taste. From short strolls
over plank surfaced
sidewalks to the climb-
ing of precipitous ice
cliffs above the tree line,
the visitor can find the
challenge that fits his
energy, endurance, dar-
ing and resourcefulness.
Water level walking can
be had for those whose
strength is limited.
Trails vary from this to
those where the partici-
pants are chained to-
gether for mutual pro-
tection and assistance
as they clamber over the '
yawning canyons or
deep fissures in the
alpine peak climbing expeditions so popular with
the younger visitors whose energy and enthusiasm

know no bounds.

Many trails are made to accommodate the horse-
back riders and the mule pack trains for those
making longer trips. Many trails are chiseled out
of perpendicular mountainsides of stiff lava rock
or solid granite. Lassen Volcanic National Park
has some of the former type and Yosemite has
examples of the latter type.

610

 

Fishing is a favorite activity .

Winter Sports

r—u

Much emphasis is now placed on winter sports
in national parks located near large population
centers where heavy snowfalls are found and win—
ter access roads can be maintained. It is esti-

mated that more than 300,000 people participate.

annually in winter sports.

According to the Director's Office, “Winter
sports are enjoyed in IO to I 5 areas in the Na-
tional Park System, including Mount Rainier,
Crater Lake, Lassen Volcanic, Yosemite, Sequoia,
Kings Canyon, and Olympic National Parks in the
west; Rocky Mountain
National Park in the
Rocky Mountain Re-
gion 5 and Great Smoky
Mountains; Shenan-
doah, and Acadia Na-
tional Parks in the east.
Mount McKinley, Gla-
cier, Yellowstone, and
Grand Teton National
Parks receive only a
limited amount of use
because of their poor
geographic location with
respect to centers of
population.

Fishing*

The Fish and Wild-
life Service of the De-
partment of the Interior
cooperates with the Na-
tional Park Service by
carrying on research re-
lating to the fish and

1 animal resources of the
parks. The results are
applied by the National
Park Service in its ad-
ministration and man-
agement, the objective
of which is the perpetu-

ation of the wildlife resources. Several states
help the park officials in restocking lakes and
streams with thousands of fish. In three instances,
fish hatcheries are located in the national ‘parks
and they attract thousands of visitors annually.

 

National Park Service Photo

Nature Study "

The national parks are rich in resources for
nature study. Flowers, trees, and wildlife of all

*General Policies of the National Park Service Governing Fish

Planting and Distribution, National Park Service, U.‘S. Dept.
of the Interior.

RECREATION

1:1

CONSTRUCTIVE FUN

Keep ’em

 
 
     

busy with

these popular
“Self-Help”

   

 
  
 

 
   

unison - .

' \
«its. “the.

 

\1' .
ml: -v «‘44-- .-..#-~.. «no-‘Wu-ua.#r_.b....¢u. mu)... A, v Q

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop

ampffied Dlawizg .............. ._. .......... 41-33 forged from special carbon steel heat-
or ing in eat  . . . .
Fundamentals of Wood Working .... .. 1.00 treated E0 prevent 01.111)me or breakfng'
Fundamentals of Clay Modeling ...... .. 1.00 A beautiful shoe deslgned for professwn-
E?“"i".’“ °f c'°°""e “5’9" """"" " "0° ale and for amateurs who know the value
Simpllfled Art Anatomy .................. .. 1.00

Figure Drawing Without a Model .... .. 1.00 of a good shoe.
The Secrets of Cartooning............... 1.00 o . .
The Art of Doing Portraits .............. .. 1.00 Diamond Pitchmg Horseshoe Outfits
 Painting ..........:............................   Super  Shoe.
PWafe::0101: Painting.......................  Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

aste alntln?  . . . . . . . . i . . . . . "I... ............ .. a    
Landscape Palntlng ........................ .. 1.00 D. d D bl R, Sh

Drawing for Children ...................... .. 1.00 {amon 0‘3 e .105.“ 008

Arts 6' Crafts for Children ..........  1.00 Dlamond Junlor Pltchmg Shoes
Practical Home Decorating .............. .. 1.00 Diamond Stakes and Offlcial

Horseshoe Courts

DIAMOND CALK
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

New Titles Constantly Being Added
Send for Complete List of
Adults’ and Children’s Art Books

HOUSE 01" LITTLE 300115
80 East I lth St. New York 3I N.Y.

Subscribe to Sent! [or

RECREATION The PROCEEDINGS

 

the official organ of the national of “19
recreat'o in me i
'" °"~‘* ” ANNUAL CONVENTION

Enter your subscription NOW 51.. Louis' Mc,_I Apr”. [946

Use the subscription blank below 1 American Association for Heal‘l'h.

Physical Educa’rion and
RECREATION R +0
315 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. N. Y. ecrea Ion
.

Please send me RECREATION for one year beginning , , _ . .
Condensations of d1v1510n meetlngs, work-

 

with the ........................................ ..issue. ' shops, and general assembly addresses on
Name .................................................................................... .. health’ physical education and recreation.
O

Street and Number ............................................................ ..

. ‘ Price $| .00
City and State ...... .i‘ ............................................................ .. _
9 Order from the Arsociation Office

I ........................................................ ..

“D Ch k d f $300 1 d |20| SIXTEENTH STREET. NW

cc or money or er or . enc ose
D Send hm for $3.00 WASHINGTON o. D. c.

 

FEBRUARY 1947 61 1

kinds are within easy reach of. all. Species of
shrubs, insects and reptiles are found in almost
unending variety. A book could be written on the
geographical, topographical and geological features
of parks and monuments. Park personnel are
trained to protect these resources from destruction
so that they will continue to be adequate for the
enjoyment of future generations. The majority of
the national parks have museums and some have
several with various subjects.

Wildlife Resources

The national parks are rich also in animal re—
sources, and National Park Service personnel in-
tend to keep them that way. From the point of
view of recreation, the animal life in the parks

makes hiking far more interesting and camera -

hunting more successful and nature study far more
profitable.

Recreational Demonstration Areas

The National Park Service provided attractive
recreation areas and facilities for millions of peo-
ple at a low cost when they developed 46 federal
recreational demonstration areas in 24 states. Most
of these have been turned over to the states. These
areas totaled approximately 400,000 acres and cost
about $4,500,000 for land acquisition. -

Land considered unsuited for agriculture or in-
dustry was selected and the areas were acquired
largely in 1934 and 1935 with Federal Industrial
Recovery Act funds allocated for this purpose
through cooperation with the Resettlement Ad-
ministration. Later in 1936, the National Park
Service was given the full responsibility by the
President for management and development of
these lands. These areas included within their
boundaries thousands of miles of clear streams,
many natural and artificial lakes, interesting roll—
ing topography and, in most cases, excellent forest
cover.

These demonstration areas were usually developed
within 50 miles of large centers of population so
they Were readily accessible to the people using
them. Organized camps were planned primarily
to meet the needs of social and welfare agencies
unable to finance the purchase of land and con-
struction of their own facilities, but they were also
used by other organizations such as Boy Scouts,
Girl Scouts, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., 4-H Clubs, and
by members of youth hostels and similar groups.
Sites included attractive woodland areas, so the
many beautiful sites inspired interest in recreation
on the part of users. Facilities for recreation users
included such items as boys’ and girls’ camps with

612

all the accompanying buildings and facilities, such
as lodges, bathhouses, playing fields, central dining
and recreation halls, staff and helpers’ quarters,
sleeping cabins, sanitary facilities, picnic areas, “and
swimming and boating facilities. Areas were de-
veloped to look attractive—dams were built, lakes
formed, streams cleared of debris and the whole
environment made a-ttra'ctive.

It was not the intention of National Park Ser—
vice officials to continue operation of the recrea—
tional demonstration areas indefinitely. Quite the
opposite was practiced, and now in 1947 we note
that all except six of the 46 areas have been dis—
posed of either by inclusion in the National Park
System or by transfer to federal or state agencies.
Twenty-eight areas and a portion of another have
been turned over to the states to operate. Most of
the states later made arrangements to lease the
organized camps to camping agencies on seasonal
or short-term permits. State officials were glad to
have these areas developed and their cooperation
was sought in every instance before plans were
detailed or construction started. By conferring in
advance on all matters relating to sites, develop-
ments and future administration of areas, no major
difficulties have been experienced in the continued
use and maintenance of these attractive areas. .

Cooperation with Other Federal Departments

The National Park Service actively cooperates
with several federal departments and bureaus for
their mutual benefit. In the past there have been
instances of such cooperation in their cooperative
fire fighting‘work with the Forest Service, in the
Department of Agriculture. Another example is
their cooperative work with the Fish and Wildlife
Service, in the Department of the Interior. The
work and results accomplished by the latter
bureau’s research specialists are proving most
helpful to the National Park Service staff as they

.too are greatly interested in fish and wildlife con-

servation—as are the park visitors.

Inter-bureau Agreements

Inter-bureau agreements approved by the re—
spective secretaries of the departments involved
are well established, traditional arrangements for
getting most effective results. When inter-bureau
committees work on a problem, they make such
surveys and studies as may be necessary, and
draw up tentative plans. They may call upon
scientists, skilled technicians or other specialists
from other departments for expert opinions, or they
may engage the assistance of some outside organi-
zations. After plans and procedures have been

RECREATION

cleared and completed by all interested depart-
ments, we can feel relatively assured that the best
possible developments, from the standpoint of the
people to be served, will result. Other agencies
constantly look to the National Park Service for
advice on recreation projects.

Cooperation with the Bureau of Reclamation

Numerous examples showing cooperation of the
National Park Service with the Bureau of Recla-
mation and other agencies could be cited. A few
years ago when a number of projects were being
planned in the Colorado River Basin, the Bureau
of Reclamation requested the National Park Ser-
vice to cooperate by studying the Basin from the
viewpoint of determining its recreational resources
and formulating recommendations for their protec-
tion and use.

Other agreements with the Bureau of Reclama-
tion, approved or pending, provide advances of
funds for National Park Service investigations of
reservoir sites in most of the 17 western states
outside of the Missouri River Basin. These inves-
tigations range all the way from preliminary recon-
naissance surveys of recreational potentialities of
possible future reservoir sites to the preparation
of recreational development plans where construc-
' tion has been completed or where it is scheduled.

Missouri River Basin Recreation Survey

This survey was initiated early in 1945 under a
cooperative agree-
ment with the Bu-
reau of Reclama-
tion. In July of
that year, how-
ever, the agree-
ment was super-
seded by an Order
of the Secretary of
the Interior which
directs the coor-
dinated study of
the Basin by the
Department’s bu-
reaus concerned
and also the con-
duct of work as
required in con-
nection with the
program of the
C o r p s o f E n-
gineers. Since then
the National Park
Service has con-

tinued its recrea-

FERUARY 1947

   

tional investigations and planning as an integral
part of the Basin program.

Cooperation with the Corps of Engineers

The Flood Control Act of 194.4 authorizes the
war Department to undertake recreational devel-
opments in connection with its reservoir projects,
either directly or through agreements with other
agencies or individuals. Shortly following its en-
actment the Chief of Engineers requested the Na-
tional Park Service to investigate and report upon
the recreational aspects of reservoir sites under
control of the War Department. Since the spring
of 1945 the Service has investigated more than I35
of these sites, and many more are scheduled for
investigation. Unlike the Bureau of Reclamation,
however, the Corps of Engineers prepares its own
plans—with the National Park Service serving in.-
a consulting capacity in cases where specifically
requested. '

National Park Service Administration
of Recreational Areas

In a few instances where the recreational re-
sources of reservoir projects are at least of regional
significance, the National Park Service, upon re-
quest, has assumed under cooperative agreements

4-H Club studies nature at camp

  

- soft "" a a!» '
U. S. D. A. Extension Service Photo

613

the administration of a few recreational areas in
addition to planning and development. This is true
with respect to the Bureau of Reclamation’s Shasta
Lake and Millerton Lake areas in the Central Val-
ley of California, Boulder Dam in Arizona and
Nevada, and the Corps of Engineers’ Lake Texoma

area in Texas and Oklahoma. An agreement pro-
viding for similar administration of the Coulee

Dam Recreational Area in the State of Washingw

ton is now pending. Services performed by the
National Park Service under these agreements are
comparable to ,those which it has furnished for
some years at Boulder Dam Recreational Area.

Cooperation with the States

In working with the states'in recent years, the
National Park Service seldom deals with person-
nel below the state level. Assistance consists largely
of the use of Federal specialists by the states and
guidance and advice in technical matters. As a
result of cooperative arrangements with the states,
the development of state parks has been greatly
accelerated.

Work with States to Increase

There seems to be a feeling among most park
people that the next great expansion will come
through the machinery already set up in the 1936
legislation to help the states expand their areas and
developments. The National Park Service has
already shown that this law provides an excellent
aid to the states, but the sources of help inherent
in the provision have not yet been exploited to the
satisfaction of the National Park Service and of
the states.

Throughout this article repeated references are
made to the word conservation. Usually this word
was used in referring to the land, trees, flowers
, and wildlife. Consideration of human conserva-
tion, the greatest of all, must be kept paramount as
planning for the future in parks goes forward.
Parks must be adequate in, size and number, de-
veloped with people’s interests in mind. They
must be easily accessible, and they must be admin-
istered and regulated for the comfort of all. Of
things in the world, the national parks are the
people’s most beautiful, interesting, satisfying, in-
spiring and spiritual heritage. Let’s all help to
keep them that way!

The Future of the National Park Service

During the war years there was no incentive to
publicize the national park attractions as travel
restrictions kept_peop1e home regardless of their
hunger for recreation. During this period, how—

_ 614

ever, the Director and his assistants were dream-
ing of the brighter future and thinkipg up new
developments to meet the needs of greater num-
bers of visitors. Planners were busy and as a re-
sult the Service has long-range plans developed for
three, five, yes, even ten years in advance! Sub-
stantial improvements badly needed will therefore
move forward without a planning hitch as soon as
appropriations, materials and manpower are avail-
able. Master plans, comprehensive in scope, have
been developed for every area in the System cover-
ing many needs, from new structures to more and
better trails and roads.

The Director Speaks

In discussing the future of the Park Service, the
Director, Newton B. Drury, said that since the
war is over, “We hope to do what we were doing
before the war, but to do it better.” He estimated
that in the period immediately following the war
it would take about $1,200,000 during a three-
year period to put the park areas into condition
for postwar use. In his 1945 Annual Report he
stressed the importance of rebuilding the National
Park Service personnel to better than prewar stand-
ards and he specifically mentioned the urgency for
employing more naturalists and historians to take
care of the increased number of visitors expected
“. . . since the visitors desire both to see and to be
informed about what they see. . . .” In this Report
the Director also mentioned the importance of
keeping plans up to date so that when money be—
comes available, there need be no delay in making
quick progress. Mr. Drury says, “The National
Park Service looks upon itself as the guardian of
perhaps the greatest living and testamentary trust_
ever established.” If public support can be re—
fiected in Congressional appropriations, we have
little to fear relative to the future of our national
parks !.

“Our constitution guarantees everyone life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I am positive
that those who drew up that document had in mind
the idea that people should always have the right
to enjoy themselves, and that no one should ever
be given the privilege of buying out . . . all of the
lands and waters, the forests and the mountains,
for his own private use, thus depriving the rest of
thepeople of their privilege of using them.”

—-—C0nrad Wirth in I 940 Year
Book, Park and Recreation
Progress.

RECREATION

4
\i

M

Q

Recreation in U. 5. Office of Education

EDUCATION TOUCHES the lives of all our pe0ple

at one time or another, either directly or in-

directly—and the United States Office of
Education is the service agency of the Federal Gov-
ernment to educational institutions, public and
private, throughout the country.

One of the objectives of education as_ stated by
the Office of Education is “wise use of leisure.”
The contribution to the recreational life of our
citizens made by the schools is tremendous. The
scope and influence of the schools’ recreation pro-
grams become clearer after we consider the recrea-
tion and related subjects taught, the recreation
activities practiced, and the number and value of
the facilities used.

Sometimes even educators find it difficult to dis—
tinguish between educational and recreational ac-
tivities, as the line which divides them is often a
very thin one. Then, too, it is generally agreed
that some educational activities have many recrea-
tional outcomes, and frequently recreation pro—
grams are highly educational. Learning to swim
in a school class is usually classified as an educa-
tional experience, yet the same students, swim—
ming after school hours, are said to be enjoying
recreation. A group of children on a nature study
hike in a large city park may be having a wonder-

t

For physical fifness and recreation

 

FEBRUARY 1947

ful recreational experience as a part of a broad
community recreation program, yet that activity is
considered highly educational in character. N umer-
ous activities, like baseball, tennis and golf, are
found in school physical education courses of
study, and these activities are actually taught in
the regular school classes and new skills are de-
veloped. The same sports, when played joyfully
on the‘playgrounds and athletic fields throughout
the country, are classified under recreation. When
many school subjects are analyzed in this way, it
becomes apparent that much recreation is pro-
moted in schools, either during the class instruc—
tion hours, or as a part of the total activities pro-
gram sponsored by the schools.

School recreation programs include' activities
which can be continued in adult life as well as
those which give satisfaction during school life.
Examples are such physical recreation activities as
tennis, golf, volleyball, music, dramatics, arts and
crafts and hobbies.

In this article recreation is considered in very
broad terms, which will be apparent later, where
the contributions made by the schools are recog-
nized.

Recreation Approved By Educators Today

Recreation has become quite generally accepted
throughout the country as a regular part of school
programs. School pe0ple have long since regarded
recreation as an
essential need in
helping people to
prepare them-
selves for the
worthy use of lei-
sure. This princi-
ple was laid down
as one of the ob-
jectives of educa—
tion by the Com-
. :5 _ .' mission on the
i i Reorganization of
SecondarySchools
prior to 19I8.

T h e r e w a s a
. period, which ex-
- I   1   tended to about

U. S. 055cc of Education. Photo I  I , in 
615

many school authorities were very reluctant to
make their school grounds, buildings and equip-
ment available to school or community recreation
directors. They were greatly perturbed when

minor damages were inflicted on school property,
and they were very concerned about the increased

costs of supervision of the school grounds when
adults as well as children frequented their athletic
fields and playgrounds. Then, too, there was the
problem of increased. janitorial services required,
and costs for supplies and maintenance, all of
which tended to increase school budgets. In over-
coming some of these attitudes, it was necessary
in many communities to provide better super-
vision, and to work out methods of financing which
tended to compensate the school authorities'for the
extra expense involved. The attitude of school
officials towards the use of school facilities for rec-
reation purposes is increasingly friendly through-
out the country today, as we shall presently see.

Work of Physical Education and ‘
Recreation Specialists

In order to convey to the reader some of the
typical duties being performed by the specialists
in the U. S. Office of Education who are interested
in recreation, a few of their affiliations and some
of their specific duties are briefly mentioned. Mr.
Frank S. Stafford, Specialist for Health Instruc—
tion, Physical Education and Athletics, Division
of Secondary Education, is Chairman of the Office
Inter-Divisional Committee on School and College
Health Services, Health Instruction, Physical
Education and Athletics. He has cooperated with
many national organizations interested in recre-
ation.

The specialists in health, physical education,
athletics and recreation are frequently called upon
to promote institutes and special meetings through-
out the country dealing with recreation as well as
'physical education and athletic problems. The of-
fices are always represented in such conferences
as the National Recreation Congress, held each
year under the auspices of the National Recreation
Association of America. Many organizations refer
often to these offices for speakers to serve at an-
nual or other meetings of special interest to physi-
cal education and recreation people. These special-
ists are frequently consulted for answers on all
kinds of problems relating to physical education,
health and recreation. A large number of inquiries
are handled through correspondence. The increas-
ing number of inquiries reaching these offices from
all parts of the country indicate a great and ex-
panding interest in school and community recrea-

616

Q

tion. Frequently communities seek such informa-
tion as to ways and means of organiiing their
schools or communities, in order that they may
render the most efiicient recreation services to the
people.

By way of summary, here are a few of the tech-
niques used by the specialists, who are in a stra-
tegic position to influence recreation in the schools

throughout the country.
Providing training courses for leaders.
Holding workshOps and institutes throughout the

country.
Being represented on many national organizations in-

terested in recreation and related fields.

Holding individual and 'group 00n ferences with peOple
seeking recreation information.

“forking with other government bureaus on subjects

relating to recreation.
Corresponding with pe0ple throughout the nation.
Issuing leaflets, periodicals, bulletins and news items,

and in other ways.

Kinds of Recreation Promoted

In the early history of our country, school rec-
reation was usually considered some form of physi-
cal activity, such as rigorous athletic sports and
games. As the prejudice against play and recrea-
tion eventually diminished, the scope of school
recreation became much broader, tending toward a
greater variety of recreation activities.

There are many types of instruction in the pub-
lic schools which give training in subjects more or
less related to recreation. More and more as school
recreation programs expand, activities outside the
physical education and related fields are being
emphasized. Cooking in domestic science classes
within a school may be regarded as hard work or
as a bore to certain girls who do not enjoy that
subject. However, if cooking is offered as a rec-
reation activity during a vacation period in exactly
the same school environment, many girls will
derive much benefit and enjoyment from the
classes taught. In other words, the instruction is
not changed much, the environment may be the
same, but the attitude of the pupil is receptive and
cooking then becomes recreation to such girls. The
same comparisons might be made for quite a num-
ber of the traditional school subjects such as music,
rhythms, drama, arts, crafts, nature activities,
reading, just to mention some. School vacation
recreation programs in some of the better or-
ganized states now include some or all of the sub-
jects and activities mentioned above. These en-
riched recreation programs encouraged in so many
of the schools today provide students with rich
skill resources which make for their greater rec-
reation enjoyment.

RECREATION

School Facilities for Recreation

Many schools are almost ideally located and laid
out, equipped and furnished for well-appointed
community recreation programs. Often the modern
school campus, together with its gymnasiums,
swimming pools, athletic fields and modern build—
ings, provides a most attractive setting and en-
vironment for a community-wide recreation pro-
gram. Even the most humble school is almost
sure to possess some areas or facilities usable in
the promotion of a recreation program. In fact, in
many rural communities the school affords the only
public recreation facilities available. Schools also
have the natural advantage of being usually well
distributed to serve the children and adults need-
ing recreation. There are no figures available to
show the value of all the school facilities used for
recreation purposes, but in his 1943—44 report,
Commisioner Studebaker reported that the value
of all public elementary and secondary school

property was $7,928,129,584 in 1944.

It has become increasingly common to find
school equipment being made available for recre—
ation programs in addition to school playiields and
buildings. In certain school districts in California,
for example, the city directors of municipal and
school recreation programs often have the free use
of school orchestra and band instruments, school
wood shops with tools, domestic science cooking
rooms with dishes, motion picture projectors and
films, art rooms with handcraft supplies, auditori-
ums with full stage equipment, athletic iields and
equipment, gymnasiums, swimming pools and chil-
dren’s playgrounds with all physical education
supplies being made available.

Intramural Athletics for Boys

For many years physical education teachers and
school administrators have wanted to promote in-
tramural programs in athletics that would reach
the majority of boys in the high schools and col-
leges. School executives everywhere agreed that
if this could be done, it would mean the realization
of one of their objectives of education, and yet
only a minority of the secondary schools have
developed adequate programs. The things which
have hindered the full development of intramural
programs in most schools have been the lack of
personnel, inadequate money and lack of space.
The complaint most usually heard is that most of
the personnel available are assigned to the inter-
school athletic game programs where most of the
student body money for such activities is spent.
Also the teams which represent the- schools in the

FEBRUARY 1947

various sports usually absorb all of the facilities
available within the average school.

In spite of these handicaps, however, an in-
creased emphasis is being placed on the impor-
tance of intramural programs throughout the coun-
try today. Some school districts now have excel-
lent intramural programs under way, in which the
majority of the students enrolled are given ample
opportunity to participate. In spite of the fact that
no one disagrees with the theory of intramural
activities within the schools, the fact remains that
such programs are effective today in only a small
percentage of our secondary schools.

After-School Playgrounds
Elementary School Playgrounds
Many boards of education today provide funds

‘ for the employment of recreation leaders who pro—

mote recreation programs for elementary school
boys and girls on their school playgrounds during
after-school hours. When such programs are
sponsored by boards of education, school supplies,
facilities, areas and personnel are usually made
available. If the playground is supervised by an‘
outside agency, such as a city recreation depart-
ment, the personnel frequently comes from that
source, while the schools provide the buildings and
playgrounds. The utilities in such cases may be
paid by either agency.

The general program of activities in large cities
is usually outlined in some central office and the
trained leadership on the playgrounds schedules
the activities and directs them. In the better de-
veloped urban centers, activities are carried on
inside the school buildings as well as outside on the
playgrounds, and the activities are not only physi-
cal in type, but include many others such as hand—
crafts and dramatics. These playgrounds are
usually open for one or two hours after the close
of school each day, although in some cities they
are open longer, even extending into the evening

hours, where night lighted playgrounds are avail-
able.

Af’rer-School Recreation for Girls in
Secondary Schools and Colleges

Since inter-scholastic and inter-collegiate sports
are not generally recommended for high school
girls and college women, the after-school program
for them is usually patterned more or less after
the intramural type of organization. One of the
main objectives of these programs is mass partici-
pation; a serious attempt is made to reach every
girl, and many schools have developed excellent

programs.

617

Recreation in the
Extended Day
Programs

As education
and recreation pro-
grams were plan-
ned for children
of working moth-
ers during the war,
many children
were under the
protective care and
influence of the
schools all day.
0 f t e n t h e s e
schools were open
Saturdays, Sun—
days and during
vacation periods.
As an important
part of the ex-
tended day pro—
grams, abroad rec-
reation program
was organized
which contributed to the all-around physical, men-
tal and social development of the children.

School Vacation Playgrounds

Vacation-time playgrounds promoted on school
premises have assumed an important place in the
recreation life of many school districts below the
college level. These programs are especially well
deve10ped in many of the larger urban centers,
although it is encouraging to note that many
smaller cities and towns in recent years have
started programs. Vacation playgrounds attract
children of all ages' in great numbers. Boards of
educationare now eager in many places to vote
adequate sums to support such programs. These
school playgrounds are usually open under the
supervision of well-trained recreation leaders.
Many schools today provide recreation programs
which are scheduled from 6 to 10 hours per day,
from five to seven days per week throughout
Thanksgiving, Christmas, spring and summer va-
cation periods. In many communities these school
programs are coordinated with municipal recrea-
tion or park department programs, so that the
entire community is fully covered.

Many of these programs feature all kinds of
playground games, including the highly developed
athletic sports often played in competitive leagues;
crafts; music; dramatics ; home talent programs;

girls’ play day programs; family night programs;
618

 

U. S. O§ice of Education Photo

School grounds—wacation playgrounds

social recreation activities; and tournament play

in many games such as croquet, marbles and pad-
dle tennis.

Recreation in Adult Education

Educational thinking has progressed a great
deal from the days when educational Opportunities
were considered restricted to children in day
schools. In states now. promoting extensive eve—
ning schools and adult education programs, many
schedule rather complete assortments of physical
education classes. Those related to recreation most
commonly offered, include instruction in individual
and team gymnasium sports, aquatics, some form
of dancing and -social recreation. Recreation in-
terests are also satisfied in many other departments
of the modern adult schools today. Among such
other departments we find as examples, music and
art in some for, handcrafts, shop work, and sci—
ence which often includes nature activities in some
form. Directors of adult education are usually ad-
ministrators who have had some experience in
regular day school programs, and they usually
recognize the -place of recreation in school pro—
grams and provide for it.

RECREATION

Influence of Physical Fitness Programs
on Recreation

One of the greatest influences inlstrengthening
school physical education courses of study in recent
years was the war with its demand for fitness.
Motivated by war needs, boards of education every-
where were urged by the U. S. Ofiice of Educa-
tion to expand and improve their physical educa-
tion pr0grams and this was done in most schools.

Recreation in the Physical Fitness Program

Physical fitness meant the difference between
life and death for many entering the armed forces.
Schools were urged. to schedule daily classes in
physical education and increase the minutes per
day and the hours per week, in those schools not
already having adequate time allowances.

The program for boys included aquatic activi-
ties, athletic sports including vigorous team and
individual sports, recreational type of team and
individual sports, group games, relays, combats,
gymnastics, ranger activities, and open country
sports. The emphasis was upon vigorous partici-
pation and corrective procedures and practices.
The importance of having each student develop
strength, endurance, agility, coordination and flexi-
bility was stressed. The girls’ program was stepped
up appropriately to meet their wartime needs.
From a recreation point of view, these fitness pro-
grams accelerated skill-learning in many recreation
games and athletic sports. Hundreds of students
learned how to swim, to box, to wrestle, to tumble
and how to play for the first time.

Influence of War Upon Recreation

World \Var II brought to the attention of people
generally that there were certain neglected areas
in public service, and one of these was recreation.
The Federal Office of Education, the state de-
partments of education, county and city school
districts, as well as other federal, state and local
governmental agencies, all became aware of the
importance of recreation to the cultural life of the
people, and they immediately took inventory of
what was being done in this field, and a large
number of them increased their programs where
gaps in the services were found.

Effect of War Upon Recreation Facilities

, The War brought to light the fact that many
communities throughout the country and many
school districts have not provided an adequate
number of recreation buildings and other facilities.

FEBRUARY 1947

Many school authorities, alarmed at the lack of
fitness on the part of our youth and older citizens,
became interested in building more effective physi-
cal education and recreation programs. Bond issues
were passed by overwhelming majorities in many
school districts throughout the country, and gym-
nasiums, swimming pools and new athletic fields
and playgrounds were planned. Many of these
facilities have been planned as living war memo'ri-
als, and the public has supported many bond issues
which included this popular appeal. School build-
ing in most cities has become a part of community
long-range planning. Often in the plans being
made for the construction of the so-called academic
units, arrangements included accommodations for
those people in the communities who wish to use
these units for recreation purposes a part of the
time. After the war was over, the scarcity of
building materials, high costs, labor shortage, and
other unfavorable conditions have made it most
difficult for the schools to catch up in the construc-
tion of the many seriously needed buildings and
facilities.

Office of Education Clientele

In this report statistics for the year 1941-42 are
used to show the tremendous scope of the nation’s
schools. Those figures are more valuable than the
later ones which are available since they help to
portray conditions in education just prior to the
war. Statistics recorded during the war emergency
period indicate conditions which are not represen-
tative of education as we think of it in normal
times. Some statistics as late as 1946 will, how-
ever, be referred to throughout this article which
will give the reader an up-to-date knowledge of
certain trends and conditions in education today.

Number of Schools

In the fiscal year ending June 30, 1944, there
were 169,905 public elementary schools in the
United States, excluding kindergartens, and 28,993
secondary schools were listed in the card files of
the Commissioner. During the same year there
were 557 public colleges, universities and profes-
sional schools and 1,140 private schools of the
same classification. In the fiscal year ending June
30, 1942, there were 10,285 elementary and 3,011
secondary, privately-controlled schools in the
country.

School Enrollments

In 1933-34, 29,291,235 school enrollments were
recorded in all elementary and secondary schools,

619

pubhc and private; in 1941-42 the enrollments
were 2,011,197 less, which represented a drop of
6.9 percent. The total enrollment in full-time day
schools for 1942-43 was 29,163,039, of which
25,448,450 were in the publicly-controlled schools,
and nearly 4,000,000 were in private schools. Of
the total number, 20,418,231 were in kindergarten
and elementary schools, 6,933,265 were in second-
ary schools, and 1,403,990 in higher education. The
1943-44 figures showed the effects of the war on
enrollments as only 5,553,520 pupils were enrolled
in the public high schools that year.

Rural and Urban Disi'ribui'ion of Pupils

The 1940 U. 8. Census showed that 14,703,957
children in the 5-17 year age bracket lived in urban
communities—incorporated places over 2,500 pop-
ulation, and 15,041,289 lived in rural territory.
The urban communities had 37,700 school build-
ings, while the rural territories had 189,062. Urban
school buildings are usually large and rural build—
ings much smaller. It is also of interest to note
that the former communities had 419,816 teacher's,
principals and supervisors, and the rural pupils
kept 455,661 of them busy!

School Population Increasing

In 1940-there were 2,205,000 children 6 years
of age in the country, and the Office of Education
quotes Scripps Foundation for Research in Popu-
lation Problems as saying there will be 2,857,000
children of that age in 1948. The 1940 U. S.
Census Report shows there were 28,930,000 chil-
dren in the 5-17 age group in 1940. School dis—
tricts in many parts of the country do not have
enough classroom space to accommodate the new
wave of school population.

New Plan of Organization for Office
of Education

The 1944 Annual Report of the United States
Office of Education includes “A Plan of Organi—
zation to Improve the Service of the U. S. Office
of Education———a 3-Year Program of Develop-
ment.” In this report the Commissioner of Edu-
cation, John W. Studebaker, explains how the
plan of reorganization was over a year in the mak-
ing and how it was needed in order to meet new
conditions in the country brought about by new
economic conditions and the war. He pointed out
that his entire staff participated in the preparation
of this plan and that the proposals do not involve
the difficult questions of new or additional finan-
cial grants in aid of education in the states. The
plan is attractively diagrammed in Chart 1* of the

620

Commissioner’s Annual Report. -It 'shows at a
glance how the Office of Education is to be re-
organized.

Combined Thinking Created Plan

In planning the reorganization of the U. S. Office
of Education, Commissioner Studebaker consulted
with educators, representatives of. schools every-
where, including subject specialists and prominent
lay people interested in education and officers and
members of educational organizations and others.

Provision for School-Community Recreation

The reorganization plan provides a section for
School-Community Recreation, headed by a Chief.
When this position is activated and other workers
become available, this section will have 12 profes-
sional positions, with titles as follows:

Assistant Chief
Specialist for Training Recreation Leaders

Specialist for Organization of School-Commu-
nity Recreation
Assistant for Adult'Recreation
Assistant for Youth Recreation
Assistant for School Camps and Camping

Four Research Assistants
Two Field Service Consultants

Recreation Boosted in Office of Education

As the Office of Education has only two special-
ists now, who deal with recreation on a part-time
basis, those interested in school recreation through—
out the country will be greatly encouraged by the
provision for additional specialists who will work
in this area under the new organization plan. This
larger recreation staff will make it possible for- the
Washington oflice to supply vigorous leadership
to state boards of education throughout the entire
country. No doubt this larger staff will bring such
an impetus to recreation development throughout
the country that more states will become inter-
ested in strengthening their recreation staffs, or
establishing recreation divisions, if they do not
already have them, all of which will result in

greater emphasis for recreation closer to the people'

needing it.

It looks very much as though the schools were
in the recreation field to stay. Whatever organiza-
tion pattern may be adopted in the future by a
community for its recreation, this much is certain
———its school buildings, facilities and school per-
sonnel will be an important part of that plan.

 

*Since a pearing in the 1944 Annual Report, the plan has been
slighty modified.

RECREATION

Services. Available Through

The National Recreation Association

(In thinking of federal services available, it is important to consider also non—governmental
national serv1ces already available, such as the following services that may be secured

through the National Recreation Association.)

1'

District Field Service to Local Communities

IFTEEN (15) district field workers are each

F charged with the responsibility for helping

‘ a definite group of cities maintain and

extend their gains and enlarge their programs.

Another worker helps with special emergencies

arising in various areas. Many cities have in

writing asked the Association to render this
service.

Exchange of Recreation Information
Betvieen State Government Bureaus

Active in the Recreation Field

Four workers (three full-time and one part-
time) are giving field service to the various
bureaus in state governments which are pro—
viding recreation as a part of their total pro-
gram. The state bureaus include state
park departments, conservation departments,
forestry services, departments of education,
extension departments of state universities,
and state planning boards. Information on
what is being done in one state bureau is
carried to the corresponding state bureaus in
other states and there is clearing of informa—
tion between the bureaus within the states.
Many governors and state leaders are asking
for information as to what is being done in the
recreation field‘ by the other state governments.
This service enables the Association to pass
on such information to the various governors
and others as the requests come in to the
National Recreation Association.

Special Field Service for Colored Citizens

A field worker on recreation for colored
citizens is provided for the more than 150
cities which have programs available for
Negroes. These cities look to the Association
for help in extending their programs and
achieving substantial progress. A second
worker helps with special emergencies in post—
war planning. A special field worker is as-
signed to recreation for colored girls and
women. Many additional cities are served

through correspondence and consultation at
headquarters.

Recreation Personnel Service

The Recreation Personnel Service helps
cities and private agencies and state govern-
ment and federal government bureaus obtain
trained recreation workers and assists recrea-I
tion workers in finding positions suited to their
capacities.

Apprentice Fellowships

Budget provision is made to train four ap-
prentice fellows for one year. These appren-
tices secure their training in local recreation
systems. The income from the Henry Strong
Denison Fund provides for part of this service.

Recreation Areas and Facilities Service

A specialist in recreation areas and facilities
is provided, a trained landscape architect with
successful eXperi'ence in the recreation field,
continuously studying the best developments
in the design, construction and maintenance of
recreation facilities and clearing this informa-
tion among all cities, making it possible for
local funds to be expended most wisely and
economically, so that expansion of facilities
may bring the greatest return in recreation
opportunities to the people who depend upon
local public facilities for their recreation.

Recreation Buildings Service

An effort is made to bring together the best
plans for community recreation buildings both
for rural areas and for city areas, and‘ to advise
with local architects as to the successes and
failures in the planning of recreation buildings.

Service to Industry

This special service is designed to help the
problems of management and labor in connec-
tion with recreation for industrial employees.

621

In every field of sport in Profes
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGrcgor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recagnizcd as a hall-
mark of quality and unvarying
performance.

.I o 3 "lug! In"

 glam gm ‘4“ 

CfNCINNATI l4. OHIO; U. ‘3. A.

 

Katherine F. Barker Memorial Field

Service for Women and Girls

An experienced field worker helps localities
with the special problems arising from the
recreation needs of women and girls. There
has been a tendency to neglect this part of
the recreation program in localities. The cost
of this work islcovered by a special contribu-
tion.

Correspondence and Consultation Service

This service is used extensively by small
towns, rural areas and cities. Each year some
6,000 communities in the 48 states and the
District of Columbia write to the Correspon-
dence and Consultation Bureau. Many foreign
countries also use this service. The 30,000
requests are answered sometimes by suggest-

ing a printed publication, sometimes by special _

research and sometimes by personal consulta-
tion. During the course of the year 5,000
persons come to the office for such help. The
requests come from public and private agencies.
community groups, and individuals. Thus far
there is no record of any request for service
that the Association has not ultimately been
able to render, though some of the requests

622

have made necessary considerable research.

Library and Information Service

The Library and Information Service at-
tempts to 'secure and’ bring together and main-
tain a national reservoir of the accumulated
experience and thinking of the recreation
movement in the United States and foreign
countries. It has been felt that there ought to
to be a center where all experience may be
registered for possible later use. This material
has value not only for local recreation depart—
ments, for state government bureaus active in
the recreation field, but also for church and
school leaders, parent associations, women’s
clubs, rural groups, American Legion groups,
service club groups and many national organi—
zations which provide recreation as a part of
their program. Experiences are gathered
from a great many communities, large and
small, and from rural districts as well, so as to'
be available for use by-the Correspondence
and Consultation Bureau‘.

Special Publications

\Vheneverthe National Recreation Associa-
tion receives a large number of requests for
information on a given subject, it has been
found to be more economical to prepare a piece
of printed literature that can be used to answer
inquiries on this' subject. There is a very
considerable demand for the circulation of
material as to what is being done in the various
communities. The Association also publishes
booklets and even books. New programs, new
developments, successful experiences are thus
circulated for the benefit of recreation systems,
summer playground leaders, park superin-
tendents, recreation workers in - industrial
plants and institutions and all those concerned
with the promotion of recreation.

Bulletin Service

The Association sends bulletins and special
material at regular intervals to local and state
recreation and park workers, to chairmen of
local recreation boards, to rural workers,
to colored recreation leaders, to industrial
workers, to workers in institutions to clear
information more quickly than can be done
through a magazine. A very attractive Play—.
ground Summer Notebook is sent to the smal-
ler communities maintaining only summer
playgrounds because so many of these summer
workers change each year and there has been
demand for special material to be placed in
their hands each week of the summer season.

RECREATION

RECREATION Magazine

An essential item of equipment for each
professional and volunteer worker is the
monthly magazine, RECREATION, which in its
twelve issues annually provides up—to-date
practical information on nearly all phases of
recreation.

Recreation Congress

The Recreation Congress is a mobilization
of the recreation forces in America, which
provides information, inspiration and a na-
tional clearing of experience between volun-
teer and professional leaders from many
agencies.

Educational Service to Local Communities
Through Newspapers. Magazines.
Conventions and Public Addresses

.Continuous newspapers and magazine pub-
licity, radio broadcasts, circulation of motion
pictures and lantern. slides—all these have
helped materially to build up favorable senti-
ment toward play and recreation which is
reflected in a more responsive attitude toward
local developments. This service has proved
its basic educational value. Occasional ad—
dresses are also given before influential na-
tional, state and local meetings.

Research

Certain of the inquiries received by the Na—
tional Recreation Association require a very
considerable amount of investigation before ade—
quate answers can be given. Various studies of
important problems affecting national and local
recreation service are steadily being made.
Many of the studies have to be rechecked
every few years. There have been studies of
recreation administration, standards for areas
and facilities, personnel standards and related
problems, volunteer service in the national
recreation movement. Material has been as—
sembled on games, social recreation, seasonal
activities. Programs have been prepared for
church, industrial and other special groups in
cities and rural districts There have been
studies of source material and compilation of
bibliographies. There have been studies of
recreation for teen-age youth, home recreation,
church recreation, recreation in day care cen-
ters for children, recreation for disabled veter-
ans, community buildings as war memorials.
A number of these research problems have

involved the cooperation of recreation execu-
tives and of laymen.

FEBRUARY 1947

Maker of America's First Standard

TRAMPOLINE

now oHers-—irmnediately available—

NISSEN MODEL 5000-T

O The popular original Nissen Trampoline improved
by design and test and proved by use for more than
l0 years in gyms. the armed forces and at pools.
camps. playgrounds and beaches.

Easily Folded—Moved—Made with Sturdy
Tubular Steel and Durable. Heavy Canvas

Price Now 5209-00 Complete
FOB. Cedar Rapids. Iowa

Write for Free Literature

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE
200A AVENUE NW. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA

 

Institutes for Recreation Workers

The training institutes are offered to help
make as effective as possible the present rec—
reation service being carried on to provide
opportunity for widening the knowledge and
improving the skill of the recreation leaders.
Sessions are open to volunteer and paid
workers in municipal recreation departments
and all community agencies.

114 v: you saw fOR 7/115 [REE 800K117?

     

JUST OFF THE PRESS—this Impor—
tant booklet. chuck full of valuable
facts on getting your High School
Boxing Program underway is yours
FREE for the asking. Written by
John Walsh. it clears up numerous

misconceptions about boxing—espe—
cially valuable to newcomers in the

program.

NATIONAL SPORTS
EQUIPMENT CO.

365 No. Marquette
FOND DU LAC. WIS.

Makers of NATIONAL Gym Mats.
Boxing Rings, and kindred
equipment

623

.
II .
.. .,. g”... ,.
-'~ .,. ~:- ~
. -.... .
.' .--J°

' t.
e '-
l   ‘
.- .'. . '
‘ V:-  ,
’-
. “~ . &

      
 
 
 
 
 
   

'

for

Available
Thru Leading

Distributors

I'll! rnvtsr IN r”: [1510 .’
MANUFACIUIING comma! .

  

 

National Bureau for the Advancement of Music

The Bureau was taken over by the Associa-
tion in January 1943. In addition to personal
conferences, answering inquiries by mail, the
Bureau has the executive responsibility for
National Music Weekw—a cooperatiVe under—
taking involving many national, state and local
organizations, Music Week is carried on in

some 3,000 communities.
Drama Service

Special service is given to drama workers
through correspondence and consultation, and
also through special work in the field. Local

drama institutes are held.
Arts and Crafts Service

An effort is made to interpret the place of

arts and crafts in a community recreation pro-
gram through local institutes. Local workers
are trained in the technique of leadership in
arts and crafts, are given' the history of crafts,
are shown the use of selected arts and crafts
activities in demonstration of program building
and group leadership.
Nature ActivitiesI Camping
and Garden Service

This service has been given not only to local
recreation workers but also to state workers.
Many who help in this field are volunteers.
Nature activities for children, for youth, for:

624

First Clloice

E‘very Sport!

Athletic Goods

5‘. lOUIS 3 MO.

 

adults are all covered; also questions relating
to camping, local museums, trees and forests,
birds, flowers, wild animals, playground beauti-
fication. Attempt has been made to help
leaders in community. gardening. Information
has been brought together to help individuals
and groups interested in starting garden pro-
grams for young and old alike.

Rural Recreation Institutes

Part of the time there have been as many as
five persons in the field, working very closely
in cooperation with the Extension Division
of the United States Department of Agricul-
ture in conducting rural recreation institutes.
At the present time one such worker is avail—
able. Through these institutes some 78,628
volunteer rural recreation leaders have re—
ceived special training.
Social Recreation and Game Service

Effort has been made to train employed rec-
reation leaders and volunteers in social recrea-
tion and games. This has been done partly

through institutes and partly through consul-
tation at headquarters.

Park Service

Because of the special experience which one
of the field workers gained in making a two-
year study of recreation under park auspices,
an attempt has been made to have this worker
available to give‘assistance from time to time
on special recreation problems affecting park
departments.

General Recreation Surveys
Workers especially trained have helped com—
munities in drafting long time plans for rec—

'reation programs suited to the individual areas. '

Most of these services have been worked out
because of the very specific requests which 
come to the National Recreation Associationl
The Association has endeavored to find out .
what people want and has planned its work to
try to meet the people’s wants.

Slim: THUPHIES &. AWARDS

For All Major Sports

BEAUTIFUL
PRIZE CUP

New design with
graceful, classic

. _ i
ggicieri'usiiiiiiia3 BOWLING All. can»

finish. Mounted on And other quality,
polished, ebony- individual prizes
like base. Stands and a w a r d s to r

13" high. No. 235. every major sport
each . . . . . $14.50 are available.

Write Dept. Rfor Free Illustrated Catalog

EDWIN W. LANE Co.

32 W. RANDOLPH STREET CHICAGO 1. ILL.

RECREATION

     
   
      
   
     
       
     
      
  

 

  

tlll

