N
@
cl."
A
F.
R
C
F.
P

 

‘

Contents

 

February 1948

Lighting Up the Ordinary Hours
of the Day with Recreation, by
Howard Braucher .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505

Play AshYou Go, by Howard Whitman. . 507

We Trip the Light Fantastic,
by Nincie Currier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 510

Oil Painting, by Florence Anderson. . . . 513

It’s Time for Recreation,

by Charlie Vettiner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 516
Camping in Southern California,

by Dr. Philip Seman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 518
Don’t Poison Yourself,

by Dr. Henry Seidel Canby . . . . . . . . . 522

The Divisive Factor, by Marie Merrill. . 523

Swimming Pool Disinfection Today. . . . 524
State Winter Sports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 527
Party Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 528

FRONTISPIE CE :
FAREWELL To me

Snows. Framed in

the doorway of
the ski house at

one of our na-
tional parks, a ski
enthusiast bids
goodbye to his fa-
vorite sport and
snowy slopes un-
til another winter.

PICTURE CREDITS: We are
indebted to: Yosemite Park
and Curry Co., for the illustra-
tion on page 506; Wisconsin
Conservation Dept., page 510;
PM and Martin Harris, page

517; Los Angeles Playground
and Recreation Dept., pages
518, 521; Baur Studios, N. 1..
page 543; The New York
Times, page 545; A. Pedrett,
St. Moritz, page 552.

 

Are We Fair to Our Children,

by June Berg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 530
Poetry Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532
The Curtain Goes Up—For Youngsters . 532
Yearly Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 535
Clifford Weatherwax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 536
Metropolitan Miniatures . . . . . . . . . . . . 538
Pastor of the Valley Church . . . . . . . . . . 541

Private Agencies Train Cooperatively,

by Jack P. Houlihan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 542
At Headquarters . . . George D. Butler. . 543
Memorial to Felix M. Warburg . . . . . . . 545
Jeanne H. Barnes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 533

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . 537

The Postman Brings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 539

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 545

Recreation Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 547

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 550

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 551

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association. formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America. a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 315 Fourth Avenue. New York
10, N. Y.: is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12. 1929. at the Post Oft‘ice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1. 1924'.

Copyright 1948. by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S.A.

VOLUME FORTY-ONB. NUMBER ELEVEN

 

Recreation

 

in February 1948

egg/tiling Mo {lie .
Ora/ind]? .jvloum 0/ [lie :bag
Will [expedition

HE SECURING AND preparing of food, the making of clothing, the
Tprovision of shelter—all this, up to a certain point, does not lie
in the field of recreation.

Yet after a certain point the preparation of food, as at a picnic or.
for a Thanksgiving dinner or for a barbecue, may become a recreation.
which gives high satisfaction, and the eating of the food in good com-
pany, visiting with relatives and friends, with good conversation around
the table,‘may have high extra-life values.

Clothing, too, may after a certain point be very much more than
protection from the cold, from weather and a coverng or exposing of
parts of the body. It may become a very high form of art in giving
satisfaction in beauty, in form, in color, in proportion.

Shelter, too, may be very much more than provision of a place to
sleep, a place to eat, to be protected from the weather. The shelter may
become very much of an expression of the personality. The shelter, the
house may become a recreation center of first value, where it is easy for

. people to forget their inhibitions and be most truly their real selves,
protected from the cruel, the bitter, the cynical.

' What is done by the recreation worker in giving leadership in the
, neighborhood center may well influence what is done within the home
in making it beautiful,.in making clothing more meaningful and bean-
tiful, in adding charm and richness and giving greater satisfaction in
the daily meals, in making the dining room more truly a center of.
family living.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

505

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Howard Whitman

I R. MARK A. MAY, Professor of Educational
I Psychology at Yale University, tells the
story of an amiable Chinese who had never before
seen a tennis game and was,watching some mis-
| sionaries play one afternoon. He saw them swing
' fiercely at the ball, run strenuously back to the
base line. dash wildly up to the net. He saw per-
' spiration form upon their brows. Finally, in a lull
I between sets, he gathered enough courage to say to
one of them, “Begging honorable pardon, why you
| not get coolies to do this hard work for you!”
Dr. May is concerned, as we all should be, over

Many of us are forgetting how to play. Some are
making play into work. Others, like the amiable
Chinese, just don’t know the difference between
the two.

America needs, as rarely before, the emotional
health that a work-play balance can give. We need
the increased productivity of the man who takes
time to recharge his batteries. We can do with-
out the tense, erratic activity of the playless man
we sometimes call a “dynamo.” We remember all
too well how the dynamo frequently ends up in
a doctor’s office, to hear the stern ultimatum,
“You've got to close up shop and rest for six
months—or I can’t be responsible.” Today, with
increased understanding of psychosomatic medi-
cine, we know that there is something basically ill
about men who work themselves to a frazzle. As
Professor May points out, the dynamos are prone
to develop stomach ulcers—“The ulcer type rarely
plays at all.”

What is the difference between work and play?
Dr. Karl A. Menninger, of the Menninger Clinic
and Research Foundation in Topeka, Kansas,
sums it up this way:

“The psychiatrist plays at being a photographer,
the professional photographer plays at being a hor-

EBRUARY 1948 ‘~

the lack of a work-play balance in American life.‘

“The distinction between work and play is not
in the actual occupation, but in the mind.”

PLAY AS YOU GO

ticulturist, the florist plays at being a carpenter,
the carpenter plays at being an artist, the artist
plays at being a cook, and the cook may, along
with several million other blithe spirits, be playing
at being a psychiatrist.”

The distinction between work and play, says
Dr. Menninger, is “not in the actual occupation,
but in the mind.” The individual’s attitude toward
an activity can transform it from grim drudgery to
gay fun, or vice versa.

Dr. Menninger’s brother, Dr. William C. Men-
ninger, who headed the Army’s psychiatric ser-
vices during World War II, gave me this vest-
pocket definition:

“Play is an activity which we choose freely-—
without necessity or outward pressure. We do it
solely for the satisfaction we get out of it, and not
for any monetary value. We are free to drop it
altogether or shift to a different kind of activity
whenever we wish.”

Dr. Will Menninger is a stamp collector and an
amateur ornithologist. There may be enjoyment,
and plenty of it, in his psychiatric profession, but
when it comes to sheer play—without compulsion
or necessity—he turns to the albums and the birds.
These he can pursue “just for the fun of it.” No-
body cares how good or bad a philatelist or orni-
thologist he may be.

Work, on the other hand, is compulsory, has
monetary value, and must be done whether we
like it or not. Professor May calls work an
“anxiety activity.” We are afraid we may not
measure up, afraid it may not turn out well. These
anxieties, all too often, preclude any genuine en joy-
ment of work. “Fear and fun don’t go together,”
he points out.

He personally happens to like boating. He
scraped and painted a craft of his own one sum-
mer, which, as any sailor knows, is hard work.

507

“Sure, it was work in the sense of the physical
energy that went into it,” the professor relates.
“But it was also more darn fun than you can
imagine!” You doubtless have had similar experi-
ences. If you had to hire out to a neighbor and
shingle his garage roof you’d consider it a job. But
if you get a bright idea to shingle your own one
summer day, well, then it’s apt to be fun even if
it costs you more than the village roofer would
charge.

Examine the work-play balance in your own
life. Are you getting enough of the free, satisfy-
ing, non-compulsive activity of play to counter-
balance the anxiety activity of work? For healthy
emotional life there must be a balance between the
two. Dwight Eisenhower knew this when he
kept up his bridge games and the reading of
\Vestern novels during World War II. During
the tense period when he was planning the inva-
sion of France, he neglected his Sunday afternoon
canters until a message arrived from the then Chief
of Staff, George C. Marshall, telling him to be
sure to do his horseback riding regularly—“and
that’s an order I”

Is all play, and no work, the answer? Certainly
not. That’s as badly off balance in the other direc-
tion. In a metropolitan newspaper there recently
appeared an advertisement by a man who had re-
tired with a $25,000 income. He wanted to work
free of charge as a minor executive in some com-
pany. Why? He was tired of just playing golf
and tennis. His balance was overboard on the side
of play, and he had the good sense to do something
about it. '

Professor Mandel Sherman has studied the
work-play balance in hundreds of cases which
have come before him in the psychology labora-
tory at the University of Chicago. One of the main
stumbling blocks, he reports, is that many people
consider play a luxury—0r even wasteful and pur—
poseless.

“Some of the puritanical origins of our concepts
of work and play create an attitude regarding play
which is both unscientific and unnatural,” Dr.
Sherman observes. “Some people believe play
should be reserved for moments when it is either
absolutely essential or for times when their work
is completely done. As a result they cannot enjoy
their play.”

For the well—informed, play nowadays has spe-
cial meanings. We are beginning to regard the
man who brags, “I haven’t taken a vacation in
five years,” in the same light as we would, a motor—
ist who boasts, “I haven’t changed the oil in my
car for 5000 miles.” The personnel director for a

508

 

_ to have fun even if it kills him. Obviously he

Bridge playing provides an outlet for aggression ac-
ceptable to everyone except the player’s opponents.

large corporation told me recently, “Before I hire
a man I always find out what he does for play. If
he plays well the chances are he will work well.”

At the University of Chicago, Dr. Sherman has
found that play actually is good therapy for peo—
ple who have burned out their emotional bearings
on the grit of relentless work. “One of our most
common problems with people who tend to become
tense or neurotic is to balance their work and
play,” he states.

This, of course, is not accomplished with a
magic formula. There is no way to tell just how
many hours a week you must play- in order to
achieve a balance. Only your own sense of well-
being can tell you that you are playing sufficiently.
Only your own feelings of tenseness, irritability
and worry can tell you that you are not playing
enough.

Well, how do you go about playing? About
the worst thing you can do is to earmark so many
hours a week in which you will roll up your
sleeves, grit your teeth, and play. Play cannot be
taken like castor oil. I have seen too many exam-
ples of the grim golfer, ch0pping his way from
fairway to fairway with a do—or-die determination

doesn’t want to play golf. Sailing, where he doesn’t
have a score to worry about, might suit him better.

In a discussion before the Association for the
Advancement of Psychotherapy, Dr. Frederic
Wertham told of a New York businessman who
thought he was playing as much as he ought, or
perhaps a little too much. “Why, I do half my
business on the golf course," he quoted the busi-

nessman as saying. “I never go out for a gam

RECREATION

 

 

unless it is with someone whose name I want on
a contract.”

This, of course, is work—not play. “Play must
be Spontaneous, unfettered. The man who does
his business while golfing or sailing or skiing isn’t
playing at all. He is just working, with a change
of scenery,” Dr. Wertham declared.

He also cautioned against the man who chooses
the wrong type of play—“One of the satisfactions
of play is to excel at something. If a man is not
 good at one sport, he is free to choose something
else. He is bound to find something he is good at.”

That is one of the beauties of play. It is “satis-
' faction guaranteed.” While you may not be the
‘ greatest lawyer or engineer in the world, you cer—
tainly have a chance to be a great fly—caster, trap—
shooter, ice skater, camper, or squash player. Or

you can assemble the world’s finest collection of 1

glass buttons, Sweet Caporal cigarette cards or
Chinese chopsticks. Your work is something you
. are stuck with. In play you pick what you like—
and if it doesn’t like you, you pick something else.

Finally, Dr. Wertham warned that play must be
carefree and _spontaneous. The man who knows
how to play isn’t afraid, once in a while, to tell the
whole office to go climb a tree while he takes time
off to fish. Secretly such a man knows that he’ll
work a hundred per cent better when he returns.

“One man came back from a two—weeks vaca-

tion and told me he had a wonderful time,” Dr.-

Wertham related. “But he complained that his
rest hadn’t done him any good. We talked it over
for a while, and it wasn’t hard to iind out what
was wrong. During the entire vacation he had
worried about the money it was .costing him.”
This kind of anxiety can make hard work out of
the most delightful vacation. Any doctor will tell
you that reasonable amounts of money spent on
play are the soundest investments a man can make.

Over the ages, philosophers and physicians have
evolved various explanations for why play is nec-
essary and what it does to one. Play often is
aggressive behavior in a socially acceptable form.
We can swat a baseball, shoot a deer, kick a foot—
ball, hook a fish, or punch an opponent in a boxing
match—and no one accuses us of anti—social be—
havior. We can harmlessly “get our aggressions
out,” as the psychiatrists are wont to say.

Baseball shows a close affinity to the aggressive

nature of primitive man. Think of _Joe Caveman
basking in the sun outside his favorite grotto when
a stranger heaves into sight. First Joe tosses a
rock at him. If this misses and the stranger comes
closer, Joe picks up a club and tries to swat him.
If this fails (or if the stranger is bigger than he is),

FEBRUARY 1948

Joe runs like the dickens. At any rate, his primary
activities are throwing, swatting and running—
precisely the combination you have at the Yankee
Stadium.

The aggressive nature of chess (often regarded
as a mild, quiet game) was recognized in its earli—
est days among the Indian Buddhists. Believing
that war was criminal, the Buddhists turned to
chess as war’s “moral equivalent” since it gave
them a chance to attack, encircle, entrap and anni—
hilate their opponents, without Spilling blood. Wil-
liam the“ Conqueror played chess avidly when busi—
ness was dull on the battlefield. So did Napoleon.

Dr. Karl Menninger, who likes chess himself,
has this to say about the game: “An urbane friend
who plays chess very skillfully was giving me some
pointers one evening. Considering his own gentle
temperament, I was surprised to hear him say,
‘Perhaps you are not mean enough. You know
you have to have a mean streak in you to play
chess successfully.’ What he meant was that one
has to be ruthless and vigilant, as in all competi—
tive contests.”

Dr. Robert P. Knight, medical director of the
Austen Riggs Foundation, says this of his own
hobby, contract bridge: “The real bridge player
takes a savage but outwardly jocular delight in
squeezing the last possible defensive trick out of
a doubled contract. This refined sadism provides
an outlet for aggressions that is acceptable to

 

Play is “satisfaction guaranteed.” You pick what
you like, therefore you like what you pick . . .

509

everyone—except his opponents.”

During World War II, Cordell Hull occasion-
ally refreshed himself with a game of croquet. But
the elderly statesman probably realized that there
is more to play than meets the eye. He named the
croquet balls Hitler and Mussolini, getting a spe—
cial satisfaction each time he delivered a hard
wallop.

The Menninger brothers will tell you this is a
sound device for getting out the aggressions. At
their Kansas clinic they have used it for neurotic
patients who need plenty of release. They name
golf balls after people against whom the patients’
feelings are directed, and let the patients go out
and wallop them to their hearts’ content. For the
same purpose they have occasionally painted a pic-

 

Dancing invades a hospital . . .

We Trip the Light Fantastic

HE JOY OF dancing gives freedom from ten-
Tsion, relaxation, exercise and pleasure, no
matter what the age. To quote Havelock Ellis:
“Dancing and building are the two primary and
essential acts.” The popularity of this weekly pro-
gram on Davis Ward of the University of Vir—
ginia Hospital shows no sign of waning. Our
original “learn to dance” evening has expanded to
include and stimulate other interests. By intro-
ducing “features” which furnish not only enjoy-
ment but other normal outlets for energy and emo-
tion, we encourage adjustment to the elements of
acceptable social behavior and assist in diagnosis
by affording observations of play behavior. Then,
too, we provide channels for expression of hos-
tility and aggression in non-destructive ways.

We have taught many to dance including crip-
ples, amputees and partial paralytics. This activ-
ity re—establishes self-confidence in some, and in
others creates a good level of interest. We vary
the straight ballroom dancing with grand marches
using simple or intricate figures according to the
group. We intersperse the program with a variety
of Paul Jones and novel means of partner ex-

510

ture of a mother-in-law on a punching bag.

The growing use of play in mental therapy indi-
cates that all of us can help resolve, on the tennis
court, the golf course, or on a fishing trip, some
of the inner feelings which we cannot give vent to
in a business office.

For a proper work~play balance, every man
ought to strive for at least four satisfying kinds of
play. These should be mixed and variegated, to
fill his various needs. For example, he might have
a stamp collection to gratify his acquisitive in-
stinct, carpentry to fill his creative urge, tennis to
get out his aggressions, and mountain climbing to
satisfy his need to dominate and excel. The more
anchors we have to windward, the less likely we
are to founder in a storm.

  
  
   

Nincie Currier

change to keep the entire group active. If we have
“wall flowers” it is because physically or mentally
they are not “quite ready” and so theirs is a pas-
sive participation—but participation nevertheless.

We began when we were fortunate in obtaining
the services of a professional dance instructor and
of a talented hospital secretary who offered in-
struction in tap, ballet and novelty steps, Such en-
thusiasm and therapeutic results were derived that
we decided to continue these weekly sessions as a
recreational activity. This form of recreation pro-
vides a challenging project ‘of socializing influ-
ences, a release and contentment, and an aware-
ness of responsibility.

I shall tell briefly of several of our numerous
variety evenings with dancing as the main theme.
We think that these ideas may be of value to
others because of the small expense involved, and
the simplicity of their preparation.

Fiesta on Davis Wafd

The patients decorated and arranged a larg
solarium in typical night club fashion with table
shaded lights, flowers and cigarette girls wearin
paper aprons and carrying decorated trays. Th

RECREATIO

master of ceremonies was well—suited to his role.
I Special piano and vocal numbers, specialty rhum-
has and a variety of skits made the evening a huge

' success. Gingerale and sandwiches were served by
I order. Everyone danced.

Gay Nineties

 

I Old well—worn and well—loved “Mellerdrammer”
'.and “Can’t Pay the Rent” skits were hilariously
'presented. A take—off on the Corbett—Willard fight
* was the highlight of the evening. During the dance
intermission we sang such tunes as “When Fran—
cis Dances With Me,” “Sidewalks of New York,”
“The Band Played On,” “Waltz Me Around
Again, Willie,” “'3icycle Built for Two”. and
“Sweet Rosie O’Grady.” The program was en-
hanced by the appropriate and colorful decorations.

Circus Day

The patients made illustrated posters which
were placed in elevators and on bulletin boards in
approved circus fashion. Admission was an “ani—

Imal tear” a silhouette torn from dark paper).
Skill turned out as varied a menagerie as ever
Noah put in his ark. Colorful silhouettes were
pinned to a screen and later judged, the winners
receiving peanuts. Pennants and streamers an—
nouncing the main events hung over improvised
tents. These included fortune telling, a mighty
muscle man, ring toss for lollipops, and several
mysterious shows in humorous vein. The tradi—
tional popcorn and lemonade were consumed as an
elimination dance progressed. Winners were pre—
sented with the usual circus dolls, these made by
the patients. As one patient wrote in our hospital
news, “The happy lot of people were loathe to
.leave, but grateful to the staff for considering social
enjoyment in addition to physical welfare. This
circus will long and happily be remembered.”

Easter Parade

To the tune of “The Easter Parade” the gayest
spring dance began with a grand march by the
men, each modeling a masterpiece in hat design.
Ever since Eve, the women have loved to adorn
themselves, but this time they created the concoc—
tions and adorned the men. For the first dance,
the man claimed the lady to whom his hat be—

longed. The making of the interesting bonnets
‘ was a fine project. Smash hits winning the prizes

of miniature Easter baskets and dainty lapel flow—
ers included a startling paper cup. and ribbon
. bonnet, a green and crimson foil styled as a flower
pot, a construction—paper sunboinnet, a decorated
| victrola record which was disguised as a collegiate

FEBRUARY 1948

platter replete with tassels, a scarf and lamp shade
combination, a huge knit yellow chick nestled in
green finger painted grass. First prize was awarded
the wearer of “The Egg and I.” This stunning
creation was made of an egg doll face perched on
pink and blue felt and tied with streamers of blue.

Hide Your Hobby Horse to the Dance

Posters announced our hobby show. We de—
cided to combine a hobby show with a dance night
to further develop an appreciation of, and to stim—
ulate a participation in, our arts and crafts project.
There is altremendous surge of interest in the arts
and crafts and this gave us an opportunity, between
dances, to get ideas for ourselves as well as to
admire the creative work on display. Almost every
acceptable type of handcraft was presented. There
were beautiful designs in wood, metal, pottery and
leather which showed work habits well established.
There were effective charcoals, finger paintings,
water colors, oils and other media paying tribute
to art through contentment of self—expression. The
articles were useful as well as ornamental. Sculp—

ture ran from soap and clay to that in more per-
manent materials.

Wearing 0’ the Green

If life is prosaic, 'it was livened on St. Patrick’s
Day with the wearing 0’ the green. This was
used in ties and Shamrocks for the lapels of the
men, and in aprons and bows for the girls. We
used the “paper tear” in a different way this time,
holding a folded paper behind the back and tear-
ing an original design appropriate to the day.
Decorations had been made in keeping with the
occasion, and hand sketched pictures depicting
song titles were guessed. These also were made
by the patients. A brief outline of the life of St.
Patrick and customs of Ireland were given in ques-
tionnaire style, and a contest held in the dancing
of a “jig.” ' '

On other dance evenings we have had interest-
ing intermissions of play reviews, brief sketches
and recordings of operas, tall tale contests, fa—
vorite poems of each one present, home talent in
skits and musical entertainments and origins of
customs. We also have had evenings when we
danced on our tiled roof and discussed the con—
stellations and their stories. In addition to the
value of the dance, music plays an important part
in program, enlarging the zone in which staff and
patients can work and play together. Through our
varied offerings, many expressions of talent have
resulted in new and closer friendships.

511

Advice to a Young Artist, Honoré Daumier (1808-1879)
National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. (Oil on canvas)

RECREATION

 

    
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  

ANY WOULD-BE ARTISTS are intimidated by
M the thought of painting in oil. An oil paint-
ing to them means a canvas as big as the living
room wall, depicting elaborate scenes or figures
land surrounded by a massive gilt frame. Actually,
.an oil painting can be of any size and portray the
l simplest subject matter.

Paint what you see about you—your friend’s
new hat, your mother’s old wooden bowl, your
. child’s worn shoes, some apples, oranges and ba-
Inanas. Paint an apple tree when it is strutting
-with its April bouquet of blossoms; paint your
' family—-they are usually willing and long suffering
subjects; paint your hopes, your joys, your heart-
‘aches and your dreams. A paint brush or palette
knife will carry you away from a hundred cares of
the day into a vibrantly glowing world of color
and form. It is a world you should not miss and
a little courage mixed with paint may even result
in producing a masterpiece, who knows? You’ll
be surprised to see what happens!

Painting is not difficult, and whether you make
it your hobby or your vocation, it is something
on can enjoy as long as you have strength enough
0 hold a brush! One of the world’s most famous
ainters, Renoir, even painted masterpieces when
e was so crippled with arthritis that he not only
ould not hold a brush, but had to have it strapped
'to his hand.

\

Before putting paint on your canvas, outline
our drawing in charcoal or pencil. Some painters
ith more assurance use a brush and paint thinned
ith turpentine for their original drawing. Many
prefer to do this sketching in a violet or reddish
color which gives vitality to the outline.

<FE'BRUARY 1948

Oil Painting”

Why not try
it yourself?

Florence Anderson

If the drawing goes wrong, a little turpentine
on a paint rag will clean off the canvas for a fresh
start. If you use charcoal, it may be Wiped from
the canvas with a dry cloth or cleansing tissue.
Whatever medium is used for the outline, it will
soon be covered by paint.

Painting Tools ‘

Essentials for your painting are the following:
tubes of oil paints; several bristle brushes from
one-quarter to three-quarters inches wide; a pal-
ette; either canvas boards or canvas stretched on
stretcher strips; a palette knife and a little turpen-
tine. The turpentine may be placed in a small tin
cup which {its on the palette. All art stores and
most paint shops carry this equipment.

If you have no easel, prop your canvas board or
canvas in a chair. Some beginners even set the
chair upside down, using its legs as a rest for the
canvas.

Paint boxes are handy to carry for out-of—door

sketching. A large shoe box, however, will serve
the same purpose.

The Paints

The following tubes of paint, which sell for
about fifty cents each, are a good selection for be-
ginners: cadmium red medium, cadmium red light,
cadmium yellow medium, cadmium yellow pale,
ultramarine blue, cerulean blue, vert emeraude and
zinc white. In addition, you will need, especially
for life painting, yellow ochre light and burnt
sienna.

Some painters also include ivory black. Others
depend on a mixture of ultramarine blue and cad-

513

mium red for a very dark color. If you use black,
do so sparingly.

At first you could confine your colors to: cad-
mium red medium, ultramarine blue, cadmium yel-

low medium, yellow ochre light and zinc white.
Squeeze a small blob of each on your palette.

Ways of Painting

There are no set rules in painting. Each artist
has his own technique and you will discover yours
as you try to describe with paint your impression
of the thing you are observing. A popular tech-
nique with many beginners is to paint directly,
without underpainting—that is, to brush the paint
into the canvas without preliminaries, placing the
darker tones on first. After the darks, the middle
tones are placed, leaving the lightest areas (except
the background) to the last.

Another technique in direct painting is to place
the colors of the middle tone's on first, the darks
next and the lights last.

Other painters fill in the outlines on the canvas
with underpainting” (turpentine mixed with paint).
This underpainting approximates the color of the
object or area to be painted, but it is a little lighter
in tone. On this background, which helps to hold
the colors together, the colors are then painted in
without thinning. When just starting, it is better
not to do underpainting. Simply take your paint
brush, dip it into the paints and begin.

Use only a few colors at first. Practice mixing
these on your palette to get any color you wish.
The important ones are, of course, the primaries:
red, yellow and blue which, when mixed with each
other and when mixed with white, will produce a
wide variety of different colors.

It is good to use a large canvas. Since many
paint boxes carry twelve-inch by sixteen-inch
canvas boards, this is a convenient size for out-of-
door sketches. Other popular sizes are sixteen-
inch by twenty-inch and eighteen-inch by twenty—
four-inch.

In order to get the feel of the paint, sketch with
the brush on large sheets of paper, and paint on
cardboard before trying it on canvas. Even news-
print paper (which is usually available in large
pads at any art store), although it won’t absorb
the paint, will be suitable for practice purposes.

Some painters use a palette knife instead of a
brush. This is a more bold technique but is not
recommended for the beginner who needs to get
the feel of the paint in the brush stroke. When
you’re in a daring mood, however, take the knife

514

and slap the paint on with it. You can even use
your thumb!

 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  

Get a few friends together to paint with you and
share the expense of an instructor or life model.
Working with others in a group gives you a bette
perspective on your own work. You will soo
realize that everyone has the same painting prob-
lems and you will be helped by the criticism and
stimulus which you receive from the group.

Painting Out-of—Doors

\Vhen painting in the open, do not place on you
canvas everything you see, but select some object
and omit others in order to have a unified pictur
and to emphasize the point of interest. When th
wind starts to blow and your canvas is jittery o
the easel, it’s a good idea to find a big stone an
tie a rope around it, hanging it to the center 0
the easel as an anchor. This 'will hold the ease
steady.

No matter how isolated a spot you may hav
selected, you will soon be discovered by a child,
cow or ten people and two dogs! They will hav
great interest in your work and will ask you man
questions. Especially will they want to know i
you sell any of the stuff! Some may even tell yo
that you’re making a mistake to put on that shad
of green. Be nonchalant!

One painter, who was surrounded by a crowd
took off his cap, held it out to the crowd and said
“Help a poor painter.” He was soon alone.

Painting Pointers

If possible, use a different brush for each colo
so that you won’t muddy your work. When usin
the same brush for different colors, clean it b '
wiping .it with a rag, dipping it into turpentin .
and wiping it again with the rag.

   
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
  

Some artists do not use linseed oil when pain
ing. Some believe that the addition of more 0'
to the paint may affect the lasting value of th
colors. Linseed oil also thins the paint. '

Don’t be skimpy with your paint; use plenty
it. Let the brush strokes be visible on the canva
Painters sometimes say, “Starve the stomach, b
feed the palette !”

Paint things which interest you, for this wi
give spark and life to your painting. Concentra
so that you won’t even want to whistle, and won
hear the dinner bell!

Paint an object the way it feels. If its so
show softness with your brush. If it’s hard a1
large, use hard and large strokes. If it’s delica

RECREATI

and dainty, let your brush transfer those qualities
to your painting.

Have your brush strokes show the contour,
shape, roundness or sharpness of the object. Try
painting a picture of an egg, showing its lights and
darks, roundnes‘s and smoothness. -It is said that
‘ if you can paint an egg, you can paint anything.

  
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
    
 
   

When you are finished, clean your brushes by
dipping them into turpentine and then washing
them with lukewarm water and soap. Scrape the
paint from your palette with the palette knife.
Clean the knife with turpentine.

Your painting will require several days or weeks
in which to dry, depending on the thickness of the
paint. After six months, you might brush mastic
varnish over your painting. This is not absolutely
necessary but will help to preserve the colors and
give a finished look to your picture. ‘

Framing the Masterpiece

A frame placed around the completed
oil painting helps you to see its errors
and your achievement! Have several
frames handy in the sizes of the canvas
boards you use most frequently. Give
your paintings a chance to hang on the
wall. In this way you’ll see where they might
have been improved, and you will be surprised at
your own progress.

It’s not necessary to purchase expensive frames.
Buy them in raw wood at an art store, and rub

similar preparation. Casein dries immediately. Oil
paint may also be rubbed into the frame to get
the desired tone. In general, light toned frames
several inches wide are most satisfactory.

Stimulators and Resources

Get in the habit of going to art galleries when-
ever you are in a large city. A good way to learn
is to observe the work of many painters, both the
modern and old masters. Study the composition,
the brush strokes, the color. See how the painter
conveyed his impression to you. '

' Be open—minded to various types of painting. If
you think that a child could have done a certain
painting, it may be that you are unconsciously pay-
ing a compliment to the artist since a child’s
lapproach is often more direct, simple and imagina-
tive than that of adults. As you paint'more and
tore yourself, then you may be justified in walk-
|1 g into a gallery and murmuring, “They had a
llerve to put a frame around that l"

I?EBRUARY 1948

them with Casein mixed with water, or some other I

Collect your own art prints. They may be pur-
chased inexpensively from art museums and print
concerns. Popular magazines, such as Time, For-
tune, Life, and, of course, the art magazines, have
reproductions of paintings which are interesting to
study and mount in scrapbooks. Some commer-
cial concerns are now using good paintings for
advertisement purposes. This is a boon to the
painter’s purse.

Read books. Beautiful art books with good
prints are available in any bookstore.

Suggested Reading

Anatomical Diagrams—James Dunlop, The Macmillan
Company, New York.

Art Spirit, The—Robert H‘enri, J. B. Lippincott Com-
pany, New York.

Color and Method in Painting—As Seen in the Work of

12 American Painters—Ernest W. Watson,

. Watson-Guptill Publications, Incorporated,
D ,, New York.

Creative Teaching in Art—Victor D’Amico,
International Textbook Company, Scran-
ton, Pennsylvania.

Elementary Free Hand _Perspective~—D. M.
Norton, Bridgman Publishers, Incorpor-
ated, Pelham, New York.

Experiencing American Picturesp-Ralp‘h M.
Pearson," Harper & Brothers, New York.

Gist of Art—John Sloan, American Artists Group, Incor-
porated, New York.

Natural Way to Draw, The—K. Nicolaides, Houghton
Mifliin Company, Boston, Massachusetts.

The following magazines:

American Artist—Watson-Guptill Publications, Incorpor-
ated, 330 West 42nd Street, New York. (This is the

most useful magazine for beginners.)

Art Digest—Art Digest Incorporated, 116 East 59th
Street, New York.

Art News—Art Foundation Incorporated, 136 East 57th
Street, New York. .

Some sources for prints:
Artext Prints, W'est-port, Connecticut.

Associated American Artists, Incorporated, 711 Fifth
Avenue, New York.

Chicago Art Institute, Chicago, Illinois.

Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd
Street, New York. '

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.

Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, New York.

National Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, Wash-
ington, D. C.

* * *
Editor’s note—See inside back cover of this issue of

RECREATION for materials on arts and crafts available
from the National Recreation Association.

 

*From “Try It Yourself,” by Florence Anderson, The Woman’s
Press. $1.00.

515

It’s Time
for Recreation

516

Charlie Vettiner

  
  
    
   
 
  
 
  

URE, I KNOW that more than 70,000 spectators watched a football game
S up east a few weeks ago. I know that hundreds of thousands more
watched other contests all over the nation and what’s more, got a kick out
of seeing outstanding players perform. But .the thing a lot of us would
like to know is, “Are these interested spectators remembering to provide
the sport for the thousands of American youngsters who would like a taste
of sports, but are not good enough to play ball on either a high school or

college team?”

Maybe you don’t know just what we are driving at so let’s ask it this
way: “When you sat up in the stands seeing the ‘cream of the crop’ per
form, did it occur to you that back home on that vacant lot on the corner
there are youngsters loafing around, wishing someone would lend them
ball of some kind so they could get a game going?” Now that we’ve rais
the question, let’s raise another: “Are the people of your community inter
ested in Future America or do you live in a place where all they do i
‘cuss the kids out’ for getting into trouble?” Every grown man, who w
a boy once, knows that if you give those kids a chance to play the sam

game you paid plenty to see the experts play, they’d be UK.

It’s time for recreation in your community! The place you live in i
either guilty or not guilty of seeing that boys and girls, too, are provide
recreation facilities which will furnish an outlet for the vigorous, norma '
energies which flow constantly from our youth. Don’t point to the big
school teams of your town and say, “We’ve done our part for our youn
people. Look at the team we have.” Brother, when you do that you ar
hedging on your responsibility to the hundreds of other children wh
want to play and are wistfully looking to you, wondering why you don

see to it that a recreation program is started for them.

Here’s a picture that was painted in a small town just this week. Du

was settling over a vacant lot where about forty boys were playing with

RECREATIO

  
    
  
 
 

football in a dangerous and disorganized manner. By actual count, four-
:teen men passed that eager band of aspirants to future football fame.
.None of the fourteen seemed interested in them, but then came number
fifteen. Seeing the youngsters trying to play a game they knew nothing
about he stopped, talked to them for a while and soon was a part of their

game, showing them fundamentals and supervising their play.

That’s the sort of thing that the nationally known Jefferson County,
Kentucky, recreation program does. It moves in on every vacant lot and
school ground in the county, placing trained supervisors in strategic areas
to conduct football clinics and other athletic clinics in their respective
seasons, so kids, fourteen years of age and under, can have sports as a
recreational outlet by actually engaging in them, rather than wistfully
watching high powered teams from grandstands and wishing they could

perform, too.

Don’t misunderstand and think that athletics compose the entire pro-
gram of the Jefferson County Playground and Rec-
reation Board, because they are only a small part of
it—but a very popular part. Ask the parents of the
boys who play in those recreation sports’ clinics
each Saturday morning and they’ll tell you that the

clinics are filling the young people’s need in a safe,

sane manner.

The next time you thrill to those highly skilled
performers on the grid, the diamond and the
hardwood, ask yourself if it isn’t time your town
Iremembered that little boys are eager to play, too.
Remember that those little fellows will be the stel-
llar performers you’ll be watching a decade hence.
FWhy don’t you take the lead in your town, city or
. county the way Max Sanders, Chester McDowell and
_ E. P. White, Jr. did in Jefferson County and remem-

ber that “It’s Time for Recreation” for future

America ?

rr'EBRUARY 1948 ' 517
I

 

 

Campers at municipal Camp High Sierra look across
Twin Lakes to the snow fields of Mammoth Crest.

The main lodge, amid pines, is center of so
cial recreation in this family vacation camp.

Camping in Southern Cali ornia

The interesting story of the development of camping

in this part of the country is told by Dr. Philip Seman,

Honorary Chairman, Chicago Recreation Commission.

HE CAMPING MOVEMENT in the United States

has been gathering impetus during the last
half century; but nowhere has it gained more
widespread interest and participation than in
Southern California.

The Department of Playgrounds and Recrea-
tion in Los Angeles first became interested in the
possibilities of camping as a public recreational
activity more than thirty-five years ago. The rec-
ord indicates that the first camp was established
on the beach at Corona del Mar and consisted of
a temporary collection of tents designed primarily
to handle the outings of boys’ and girls’ groups.
However, the idea immediately proved popular
and the department in the first year tried to meet
the demand by supplying outings for whole fam-
ilies. The following year (1912) the camp was
moved from the beach to a location up in San
Gabriel Canyon. This, too, was a temporary ar-
rangement. However, the record further tells us
that for two years this camp fiourished and fam—
ilies found great joy in the outings offered.

518

In 1914, thirty—four years ago, the department’s
first permanent camp was established. A site was
provided in the San Bernardino National Forest
at Seeley Flat. This beautifully wooded area,
seventy-five miles east of Los Angeles, provided
an ideal location for the establishment of a recrea-
tion service which since has been enjoyed by thou-
sands of persons.

Along meandering Seeley Creek and in an area ‘
which once saw the excitement of a miniature
Gold Rush during the days of ’49, a picturesque
camp was constructed. Permanent rustic cottages,
each designed to accommodate a few individuals
or a family group, were built; kitchens, a large
rambling dining room, showers, an outdoor camp-
fire circle, and a recreation lodge building were
erected. Structures were placed amid the pine and
incense cedars in such a way as to preserve the
natural beauty of the location. Accommodations
provided for approximately two hundred and fifty I
guests. At some distance away, in a sunny spot, a
swimming pool was built.

RECREATION

   
    
  
   
  
  

For many years Camp Seeley flourished as a
camp where individuals might enjoy a grand vaca—
tion at a very small cost, the fees being based upon
a non—profit plan of operation. Organized recrea-
‘tional activities were provided—camp games and
sports, nature walks for children, handcraft,
horseback riding, swimming, organized hikes, and
pther constructive daytime activities. In the eve-
ning, the campers gathered inside the lodge for
many social activities.

- The success of Camp Seeley led to the demand
for additional facilities, and in 1918 the Los An—
geles Recreation Department opened a similar va-
cation center at Camp Radford. Situated ninety
miles east of Los Angeles, on a mountain slope
commandng a sweeping vista of the upper Santa
Ana River Valley, this camp had appealing beauty
for those who love the rugged mountains; and as
the attendance figures indicate, there are many in
these parts who have abundant love for this kind
of experience. Camp Radford’s facilities and pro-
gram were quite similar to those of Camp Seeley.

A growing interest on the part of Los Angeles
residents in the High Sierra country led to the
establishment of a third family vacation camp.
This is located 338 miles north of Los Angeles,
amid some of the most magnificant scenery to be
found in the continental United States. The High
Sierras at this point soar majestically to heights
of 12, I 3, and 14,000 feet, with their granite sum—
mits snow—capped summer and winter. The re—
gion is also intensely interesting because of its his—
tory as part of the frontier period of the nine-
teenth century, and abandoned gold camps and
ghost towns are places of great attraction
to campers, young adults as well as oldsters.

Camp High Sierra was designed as a
smaller and more intimate type of family
camp than either Camp Seeley or Camp
Radford. The others were built to accom—
modate approximately 250 people at a
’time, while Camp High Sierra was designed
,‘for only 100 individuals. Facilities and
camp activities, however, were quite similar
xcept that the high altitude of the Mam-
noth Lake country, 8400 feet, made it in-
dvisable to build a swimming pool. Sight-
seeing trips to the many points of interest
in the vicinity, fishing excursions,- long
horseback trips, and even journeys by pack
' rain into the interior were p0pular added
eatures. To aid campers in seeing all there
{was to see in the region, the Recreation
Department provided a “rubber-neck” bus
'without roof .or sides so that those taking

rEBRUARY 1948
l

a,
i ' ' In .1
 . a:

the trip could be taken from place to place on half—
day or one-day excursions.

In addition to the three family vacation camps
in the mountains, the Recreation Department used
the natural wilderness beauty of Griffith Park,
right in the city, as a location for two camps for
children; one a girls’ camp designed originally to
meet the needs of girl organizations such as the
Campfire Girls, Girl Scouts, Y. W. C. A., and so
on. As the demand grew, however, the Recrea—
tion Department eventually found it advisable to
operate its own outings, and has found that it can,
in this way, serve a very large number of girls who
otherwise would be unable to go on camp excur-
sions. A boys’ camp in Griffith Park flourished
for many years in similar fashion to the girls’
camp. During the depression period, however, the
camp was loaned -to the Federal Government as a
haven for transient boys who at that time were
flocking to Los Angeles in very large numbers.
Later it became a CCC Camp, and during the
war was used by the Army as a military center.
Because its location is not considerd by the Recre-
ation Department as attractive as that of the girls’
camp, it will not be re-established as a boys’ camp.
Instead, according to the superintendent of the
Recreation Department, there are plans for the
construction of three new children’s and youth
camps in the recently acquired Hollywoodland wil-
derness, an addition to Griffith Park lying to the
west of the older park. It is impossible to describe
the natural beauty of this area.‘ In spite of the fact
that it is in the heart of the City of Los Angeles,
for all intents and purposes it could be literally
hundreds of miles away from “civilization.”

 

A girls’ camp in Griffith Park, in the city, meets needs of
girls who otherwise would be unable to experience camping.

519

In latter years, the plan of operation for Camp
Radford and Camp Seeley has changed. Prior to
the war there was a growing demand for a camp
which organizations could take over and use for
their own outings. Churches, clubs, lodges, young
people’s organizations and other agencies appealed
to the Recreation Commission for such a facility.
Experimentally, Camp Radford was transformed
into this type of camp. The original plan of offer—
ing outings for individuals and families was aban-
doned and organizations arranged to take over the
camp for a week or two weeks during the season
and put on their own outings, furnishing meals,
staff, and recreation leadership. The role of the
Recreation Department was to provide the facil-
ities, their maintenance, and advice and counsel to
the organizations in planning their programs. As
we all know, during the war it became virtually
impossible for individuals or families to travel any
distance from home. The Office of Defense Trans-
portation, however, authorized the provision of
extra gasoline for the transportation of youth
groups only to mountain vacation centers or camps.

Under these circumstances, the Recreation De-
partment found that Camp Seeley could also be
widely used only if it were placed upon an organi-
zation basis such as in effect at Camp Radford.
This was done. The result was so great a demand
from organizations for use of these two camps that
the Recreation Commission has continued to pur-
sue this policy even after the war. It has been
found that more persons can actually be served
with mountain vacations in this way than under
the prior system, and the purpose of the camps
can best be achieved.

Camp High Sierra, on the other hand, has been
re-established since the war as a family vacation
camp. Interest in the High Sierra country has
mounted to unprecedented heights. Almost before
Camp High Sierra opened for the season this last
summer, the record shows that virtually every
reservation for the entire season had been taken.

As an outgrowth of this interest in the High
Sierras, the Recreation Commission of Los An-
geles has, I am told, broadened its views on the
possibility of a recreation service to Los Angeles
residents, giving them an opportunity to visit this
area. The Water and Power Department of the
city owns large holdings of land throughout the
region, which were acquired for the purpose of
developing the supply of water for Los Angeles.
The Recreation Commission and the -Water and
Power Commission have seen the possibility of de—
veloping some of these holdings in order to serve
the recreational needs of vacation-seekers. One

520

.of a large city, even when they are on vacations

-mountain retreat, enjoyed complete programs 0

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
  
  

example of this new program is the establishmen
of municipal boating and fishing facilities at Crow
ley Lake. Crowley Lake is a large reservoir so

ten miles in length and five miles in width, situat
within eighteen miles of Camp High Sierra. Desi

ing to protect the water against pollution and y
enable anglers to use its trout-filled waters, th
Water and Power Commission and the Recreatio
Commission agreed upon a plan of operation
Under this plan the latter has established boat
houses, docks, and other public conveniences; ha
provided a Heet of small motor boats for fisher
men to rent, and has established safety regulations
and a regular lifeguard patrol on the lake. The
place has quickly leaped into fame as one of the
greatest trout fishing lakes in America and has
amply demonstrated the efficiency of the municipal
recreation program for the benefit of the residents

more than three hundred miles from home.

Even more interesting than this is the fact that
California, and Los Angeles in particular, once
more illustrates the possibilities of fine cooperation
and coordination of public departments for the
good and welfare of its citizenry, thus creatin
greater efficiency and economy in the conduct 0
its service.

Camping in one form or another under the aus-
pices of the Los Angeles Recreation Commission
is now an all year project. Lamp Clubs are organ—
ized by playground directors. The term “Lamp”
is made up as follows: the letters L and A for Los I
Angeles, M for municipal, P for playgrounds; and I
there is a Lamp Club at almost every playground. 3
Some playground directors carry on fund-raisin ;
events throughout the winter to make it possibl '
for their groups to participate in the annual sum
mer outing at Girls’ Camp.

Beginning with October 1946, Griffith Par
Girls’ Camp established weekend outings for girl
eight to sixteen years old who, in this picturesqu

recreational activities, meals, and cabin accommo
dations under supervision of trained women recre
ation directors. Each weekend outing began 0
Friday after school and ended Sunday afternoon
at a nominal cost of five dollars and fifty cent
Outside of these municipal camps, Los Angele
and Southern California offered healthful, whole
some camping opportunities through such agencie
as the Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Girl Reserve
sponsored by the Y. W. C. A., Camp Max Straus
and so on. These camps, as well as a similar nu
ber from the Southern California Camping Ass
ciation, reported more than 75,000 boys and gir

RECREATIO

 

At some distance away in a sunny spot, a swim-
ming pool was constructed. Camp Seeley flourished.

last summer in the eighty—one member camps.

\N here it is impossible for a girl to go away to
camp for several days or weeks, the day camp pro-
vided by Girl Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, and other
civic groups offers many one—day outings. Last
year the Girl Scouts alone registered almost 3,000
girls in nineteen one-day camps. However, there
are still 30,000 boys and girls not served by one
of these camping programs.

The superintendent of San Diego County
Schools tells us that the need for extending the
values of camping programs to larger numbers of
young people has become increasingly evident, par—
ticularly for an increase in the phases of youth
programs which have a positive beneficial influence
pn youth in general. This problem has resulted in
the meeting of several groups as representative
Steinbers of the Camping Committee of the San

iego Coordinating Councils. This representative
dommittee launched the project of obtaining a lease
'on a former CCC Camp in Cuyamaca State Park
in San Diego County' and initiated the necessary
procedures for the establishment, through joint
'rdinance under the community recreation act of
ale San Diego City and County Camp Commission.
- l The superintendent and supervisor of recreation
i? Los Angeles have adOpted the criteria for judg-
ing the effectiveness of a camp program, as set up
Dr. Elbert K. Fretwell of Columbia University.
ome of the considerations included in this criteria
are: Is a youth .safe? Are the health requirements
' fpr campers, counselors, cook and the whole per-

nnel of the campadequate? Has the camp ade-
Ixate provisions to prevent or to care for possible
L illness or accidents? Is the physical environment

   
     
 

  
   
  
  
  
 

liEBRUARY 1948

and equipment adequate? Is the camp program
aiding in developing hygienic habits of living?
Does the camp enable the boy or girl to keep well?

Does the camp furnish favorable opportunity for
developing, through satisfying practice, the qual—
ities of a good citizen? Are the camps providing
opportunities for initiative, leadership, cooperation,
and intelligent obedience to authority?

Is courteous consideration of the rights and obli-
gations of others a part of everyday living? Is
there a kind of high, joyous seriousness in the
spirit of the camp? Are the counselors genuine?
What kind of talk goes on in camp when campers
and counselors are just talking? Is the program of
activities well-planned? Does the camp provide
for individual differences of interest? Is there
well-regulated freedom, and attractive activity free
from hurry, strain, worry or envy? Can the camp-
er get satisfaction out of worthwhile activity well
done, rather than by surpassing somebody? Does
the camp provide new or supplementary outdoor
experiences? Does the camper have new experi-
ences with flowers, birds, bugs, trees, mountains
and the open sky? Are these experiences guided
enough but not too much? Do the campers de-
velop a larger repertory of Sports in which they

.can participate with increasing skill and satisfac-

tion? Is the camper helped to get out of the “dub”
class and into some activity? Does the camp foster
the mental and emotional attitude of seeking,
knowing and understanding the beautiful? This
beauty may be in generous, courteous, helpful acts ;
in music, dramatics, in the ‘rising sun.

What is the spiritual attitude of the camp? Is it
free from cynicism and superficial, smart sophisti-
cation? Is there a spirit of reverence for the true,
the beautiful and the good? Is there serious guid-
ance in helping the camper to think through the
problems that confront him? Is the camp a happy
place? Is there wholesome comradeship, free from
sentimentality? Is there in everything the joy of
being alive? Is there one specific person in camp
responsible for the camper, asleep or awake, and
who is that person?

This criteria is not complete and I am sure can
easily be added to; but suffice to say that if every
camp in the country could answer these questions
truthfully and secure at least an eighty—five per
cent average, and if every boy and girl in America
could have the opportunity of camping experience
under these circumstances, we would, within less
than a generation, need have no fear about the
devastating effects of wars or the latest of all fears
—the result of atomic bombs in future wars—for
there would be none.

9

521

Don’t Poison Yourself I

Dr. Henry Seidel Canby, prominent editor writes in observance of Brotherhood
Week—February 22 to 29, 1943. Brotherhood Week was established by the
National Conference of Christians and Jews to promote justice, understanding,
amity and cooperation among those of different faiths and nationalities.

T IS CURIOUS that most worthy people who have
been attacking racial prejudice in this country
have not used one argument which history has
again and again proved true. They think only of
the victim of racial prejudice, his sufferings, his
wrongs, and the damage done to his dignity as a
man. They forget what happens psychologically to
the prejudiced man or woman.

The abolitionists before the Civil War were
equally narrow sighted. They talked only of the
harm done to the Negro by slavery. They said
little or nothing of the moral damage to the white
man who owned him. It was easy for the South
to point out that the Negro slave was at least bet-
ter off than he or his parents had been in savagery
in Africa; and that freedom for many slaves might
prove a doubtful blessing.

What may have been the deepest curse of slav-
ery was seldom mentioned in the North, although
enlightened Southern leaders had been aware of it
for a century. It was the subtle corruption of the
owners of slaves by irresponsible hands over
human beings. It was the cheap superiority of the
poor white, who had been ruined by slavery, and
had only his hate and contempt for an oppressed

New Filnt

Brotherhood

of
MAN

This excellent one reel, I6 mm. cartoon motion
picture in color, released by Film Alliance of
America, 1600 Broadway, New York City, wittily
tells the important story of the inherent equality
of men whatever their race or color.‘ In it, Henry,
(the average white man), dreams of the peoples
of the world. He wakes up to find “One World”
of different peoples—Chinese, Eskimo, Indians,
Europeans and others—in (his own backyard. He

522

 

race to keep up his self-respect. For there is no
snake in the breast more dangerous to the man
who carries it, than unreasoning hate and nursed
contempt. It is the most poisonous kind of com-
pensation for failure or for lack of self—confidence.
Despise a race, or hate a race, or dislike a race,
and the- poison will come out like invisible boils.
Whatever goes wrong irritates the haters first.
The hated get the blame for everything. And a
really prejudiced man becomes a center of infec-
tion. But he infests himself first.

Racial prejudice has killed the bodies of millions
in the last few years. We cannot forget that. But
it is still warping the spirits and cramping the
minds of tens of millions ‘of the prejudiced. They
are unaware that the man who hates and despises
a race or a group without discrimination, will
sooner or later, though perhaps only in the secre
recesses of his mind, come to hate or despise him-
self. He has been poisoned, though he may no
guess the cause. Here is something upon whic
history, religion and psychology all agree.

Editor’s note: See “Teamwork for a Healthy World,’
address by Dr. Henry S. Leiper, in December 1947 issu
of RECREATION.

 

dashes out to welcome them, but his suspicion an
doubt hold him back. Each of the One Worl
citizens has a little green doubter inside him, to
So what started out as a round of handshak
winds up disastrously. Finally, however, Henry I
shown that only color and a few other “frills” di
tinguish the three basic races. Everyone shak
hands and agrees that “All we need is a litt i
brotherhood and equality for all.” j

RECREATIO' l

The Divisive Factor

Digest of a talk given to the American
Sociological Society by Marie Merrill, for-
merly Director of the Community Center
Department, Board of Education, Chicago

AGORE DEFINES SOCIETY as a “natural regula-
Ttion of human relationships so that men can
develop ideals of life in cooperation with each
other.” People do not like to be alone. They do
not like to think alone. Take, for instance, the man
you know who wants to think so differently from
other folks, to be independent. Actually, he is the
one who is constantly trying to get other people to
think as he does; only his idea of getting together
is one of uniformity rather than unity. As long as
he remains aloof, he is a lonely man; human nature
is such that we can find complete satisfaction only
through sharing with others.

As a child I wondered, as I suppose most chil-
dren do, why history was nearly all a study of how
people fought each other. I wished I could write
a history of how people lived and worked together.
However, I find that we are too often concerned
with the “uniters,” at the expense of becoming
unfamiliar with the dividing factors which create
problems in society. It is necessary to take a look
at these “dividers,” both common and special, in
order that, we may circumvent them. Life at its
best is not simple; but here we are, and we must
learn to get along together.

Close contact with many different sections of a
large city gives one an opportunity to know com-
munity life, how it organizes and disbands, how
community projects work and how they fail. My
days as Director of Community Centers in Chi-
cago have helped me see some of the why’s of
success, failure and difficulties.

In some communities there are natural dividers
such as railroad tracks. In such cases, the group
on each side holds together in some ways but does
not always pull with the other. It would be well
if the tracks served as the tongue of a wagon be-
tween a team of horses. Usually they do not.
Often one side has advantages or conditions which
make it seem superior to the other side. Do you

'L'FEBRUARY 1943

remember the comment Will Rogers made about a
town? “You see,” he said, “the south side of the
tracks looks like it has most money, but it only
owes the most.”

One day a neighbor came to the settlement
house as the proud bearer of the news of a local
man long ailing. I asked her what his illness really
was. “\Vell,” she said, “it’s like this. If he’d a
been one of the folks over by the lake, he’d a died
of tuberculosis; but bein’ poor and over this way,
he died of just plain whiskey.”

In some localities, the divisive factor takes the
form of gangs; in another, it may take the form
of organizations. Such gangs and organizations
are self-centered in their interests, resorting either
to machine guns or to polite warfare to settle their
differences. Sometimes the machine gun method
seems the neater. Isn’t it strange the way people
trust lots of folks individually but suspect them
collectively P .

There too oftenois the organization that has a
definite idea of community program which it is un-
able to carry out; but which it does not intend to
allow any other group to undertake either. Such
an organization may have as its work local im-
provement, boosting business, educational work or
such; but under no circumstances will it allow
another organization to go ahead and put in the
new street lights. Often, too, one of these organi-
zations will refuse to cooperate with others on a
community council for fear of losing its “individ-
uality.”

On the other hand, two active and opposing
groups may be a good thing if the welfare of the
community is the first concern of each. Methods,
or attitudes, may be the divisive factor. A pres-
sure cooker should be used properly, in order to
obtain satisfactory results!

It is interesting and heartening to see groups
uniting to defend the district as a whole. During

323

the days when I acted as head worker of a settle—
ment house, its constituents were divided by stand-
ards of interests and living which were not due to
economic conditions, but to attitudes. It took
three years of effort and the cooperation of many,
but we finally succeeded in changing the attitude
of one whole group so that no longer did the
youngsters from S. Street stand outside the win-
dows during a party and. spit at the boys from H.
Street as they came within range.

A divisive factor found in our cosmopolitan
cities and towns is often those people with the
background of an early life in another country. It
is difficult for them to adjust to our way of life,
and hard for us to understand their point of view
on many things; and within these nationality
groups, themselves, we find further division. We
need to have patience and to give real thought to
the problems involved. We need to try to under-
stand, and have respect for, each others cultural
patterns, to learn from each other, to_find some
common denominator which will enable us to work
and play together.

Then there is conflict between the older folks
and the young folks with ideas still in the process
of formation—conflicts on standards of morals and
ethics. Many of these divisives show up in leisure
time activities and interests. Activities and inter-
ests may not coincide because of the difference
between what young people would like to do and
-what activities are offered to them by their elders.
(They should help in planning their own pro—
gram.) This difference, added to the lack of well
thought out standards, increases problems and
may lead to creating or increasing delinquency.

Again, conditions in a community can change
greatly without our being aware of what is hap—
pening. A district changes from a stable, home—
loving American-born group to a mixture of sev—
eral newly arrived nationalities; another changes
from a homogeneous group to apartment house
families who have the habit of moving every year
——and the local council operating the community
centers for these districts wonders why the unity
of community interests seems to be disappearing.
The community council has not seen the develop-
ing of divisive factors. We need to study our
communities, know their changing needs and the
reasons for them in order to foresee and avoid
problems wherever possible and maintain a com-
mon unity.

All groups have something to offer, all have
something to get. Let’s watch out for these divid-
ing factors, and pool our best for the good of the
community as a whole.

524

Swimming Pool

Chlorine vs. Bromine

FOR MANY YEARS chlorination has been the
\ generally accepted method of disinfection for
swimming pools. During the war, however, chlo-
rine was difficult to obtain, and attempts were
made to find some equally efficient substitute. Of
the various processes tried, the use of bromine
seemed to be the most successful. These experi-
ments have raised the question as to which of
these, chlorine, or bromine, is the better solution
to the problem, not only from the purification
angle, but also as to cost, equipment needed, and
the effect upon pool patron's as to odor and irri-
tation of the mucous membranes.

Upon instituting inquiries as to the relative
merits of these two disinfectants, the National
Recreation Association .has discovered that, to I
date, there has been surprisingly little published .
authentic data on the use of bromine. Illinois is
the only state reporting its considerable use, while
the state of Michigan has made some comparative
studies of the use of the two chemicals. Before
quoting the information acquired from these states,
we would like to point out that we have been cau-
tioned to keep an open mind on the subject and :1
await additional data on the successful use of bro— I:
mine before drawing conclusions and making any
special recommendations regarding any advantages Fl.
it may have over chlorine.

According to Mr. C. W. Klassen, Chief, Divi-
sion of Sanitary Engineering, State Department
of Health, Springfield, Illinois, the department pol-

l,

icy for disinfection of pools is as follows:

*The Illinois Department of Public Health approves
the process of 'bromination for the disinfection of swim-
ming pool water. At the same time it is realized that the 
process has not reached a full stage of development. Addi- -
tional bacteriological studies are needed. Better equip- I
ment for feeding bromine should be developed, with the i
main aims of greater safety to prevent burns, and more I
accuracy in bromine dosage and control tests.

It should be noted that the only water disinfection

.—

 

*Quoted by permission of State Department of Health, Illinois.
from “The New Swimming Holes,” department periodical pub-
lished October 1947. ‘

RECREATION

Eye or Skin Irritation Complaints

Disin (action Today 

No answer .. .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

- TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Odor or Irritation Complaints Since
Using Bromine?

Yes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 36

TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Prefer Bromine to Previous Disinfectant?

Yes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

process which has been approved for a considerable num- No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
her of years, chlorination has in the past eight years been No answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . 7
greatly developed because of recognition of “breakpoint” -—
and the differences between “free” and “cornbined” ch10. TOTAL o . o u . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o . . . o . . o e . . . . . . 

rme remuals' _ . Reasons Why Bromine Superior to Previous
Approval of bromlnation does not alter any depart- .. Disinfecmntg

ment policies in regard to chlorination. Either disinfec- Bromine equipment inexpensive 1
tion process, or a combination of the two, may be used Bromine safer to handle . _ 3
and should be provided at every swimming pool. No pool Less eye irritation . _ _ _ I _ 20

water disinfection process other than bromination or

. . . Bromine equipment requires less attention. . . . 22
chlorination 15 approved.

Bromine maintained more constant residual.. 10

In May I947 thls department malled quesuon' No 'heavy chlorine tanks to move . . . . . . . . . . .. 1
naires on bromine to fifty-three swimming pools in Bromine equipment cleaner than chlorine
Illinois which had used, or were using, bromine. equipment - - o - o - - - - - - - - - - - o - - - - - - - - - - - -- 1

Replies from twenty_f0ur indqor pools and twenty Brommation process costs less. . .  . . . . . . . . .. 

Less throat and ear Infection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

outdoor pools—a tOtal of forty—four—Were tabu' Filter media cleaner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

lated- some 0f the replies are quomd: - Better bacteriological results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5

Years, Experience with Bromine? No bad odors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Average time__3.5 years (or outdoor swimmmg liess algae trouble . . . . . . . . . . . .: . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

season ess corrosmn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ‘

Disinfection Equipment Used Before Bromine? Pool water clearer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Gas chlorinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..‘ . . . . . . . 19 Reasons Why Previous Disinfectant Superior

Salt chlorinator . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 ‘ to Bromine?

Hypo‘ctdonte by hand or Wl’th feeder ' - - - ' -- 10 Bromine more expensive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3

Ultra-Violet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Expensive to bat larger amounts of fresh

None . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 water introduced by brominator o o _ I o I _ _ I _ I 1

NO answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Could not Obtain a bromine residual I I o o o I I o o 2
TOT“ I a Bromine equipment needs morea-ttentiorn. . . . . 2

‘ ’ ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ‘ ° ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '. ° ' ' ° ° ' ' Believe chlorine and bromine to be equal. . . . . 1
Reason for Change to Bromine? Prefer ultrawiolet 1

Try to eliminate eye or skin irritation or odors 4 No answer ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' 5

Greater safety or convenience. ., . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6 ' ° ° ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ° ' ' ' ° ° ' ' ' ' "

Eliminate chlorinator repair expense . . . . . . . . . 3 Bromine Treatment Economy?

Difficulty in maintaining Chlorine residna1_ . . _ 5 Bromine treatment costs more . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 12

Chlorine diliicult to obtain (during war) . . . .. l4 Bromine treatment costs less . . . .  . . . . . . . .. 15

Try to Obtain better resnus . I . . o . . o o _ . _ I _ . H 9 No conclusive answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17

Could not obtain a chlorinator or parts . . . . .. 3 TOTAL . Zl-

T°.rep1ace (11%“?de equlpni‘ent ' ' ' ° ' ' ' ° ' " 5 None: Several.opelrator.sl sienna Inlet- if ignited

USmg bOth c.1110? me and ‘bromme - - - - - - - o - o - - 2 on how much bromine was to be used, since the bromine
No answer ..................... .. 4 jgngfugutg fggcgrggig gig; cgaigge £3113, 0;] 535nm:
TOTAI 3—5-5- ggiticzagnzmgdlecggll$§g to similar costs on equipment
(Greater because of multiple answers) Has Bromine Equipment Been Easy to Use
Odor Complaints Before Bromine? and Trouble Free?
Yes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Yes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . ..18 No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6
No answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 No answer . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
TOTAL . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..'. . . . . . . . . . . ..44

FEBRUARY 1948 525

 

Any Accidents or Burns from Bromine?
Yes (burns on the hand; 5 Of these still

use bromine) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6
NO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 37
No answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1

TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 44

Did Bromine Cause Any Corrosion?
Y es . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3
NO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 44

Did Previous Disinfection Treatment Cause ’
Any Corrosion?

Yes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15

NO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 16

NO answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 13
TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Are You Still Using Bromine?

Yes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 39

NO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5
TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 44
Additional (“Pro” or “Con” Bromine)

Remarks
None . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 23

Very satisfied with bromine after 7 years use. 1
Prefer “chlorine plus bromine” treatment. . . . 4
Very pleased with bromine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ll
Bromination equipment should be improved. . 3
Could get no residual using bromine alone... 2

TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

Regarding the studies made in Michigan, we
quote from “A” Comparative Study of Chlorine
and Bromine for Swimming Pool Disinfection”*
by Dr. W. L. Mallman, Department of Bacteriol-
ogy and Public Health, Michigan State College,
and Mr. T. L. Vander Velde, Assistant Sanitary

Engineer, Michigan Department Of Health:

During the war when a scarcity of chlorine became
imminent, bromine was suggested as a satisfactory sub-
stitute and a number Of pools, particularly in Illinois,
were treated routinely. Bromine has not been used in any
pool in Michigan to date, but because favorable reports
have been received, the writers believed that it would be
well to determine its effectiveness under supervision. Ac-
cordingly, tests were made at the men’s pool in Jenison
Field House, Michigan State College, which is conve-
niently located and could be kept under close Observation.

Jenison Field House Swimming Pool

The Jenison Field House swimming pool at Michigan
State College has a capacity of 170,000 gallons. It is
rectangular in shape, being seventy-five feet long and
forty-two feet wide. The depth is four feet at the shal-
low end and ten and a half feet at its deepest part.

The water is recirculated by drawing from the bottom
Of the deep end Of the pool. This water flows by gravity
to an over-and-under baffle mixing chamber. All make-up

 

’Quoted by permission of Mr. T. L. Vander Velde.

526

water, alum, and chlorine or bromine are added at th
entrance to the mixing chamber. The water then flow
through open rapid sand filters. There are three filters,
each five feet by eight feet. A 360 G.M.P. pump then
sends water through a heat exchanger and back into th
pool through inlets spaced twenty feet apart around th
outside of the pool. The\above design permits a complet
pool turnover every eight hours. The recirculating sys-
tem is operated continuously twenty-four hours a day,
seven days a week.

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

Equipment

The bromine purchased for this experiment was sup-
plied in a 250 pound cylinder. The cylinder is abou
eighteen inches high and eighteen inches in diameter. The
bromine is vaporized by heat and vacuum. The bromine
gas then passes through a rota-meter which measures the
quantity Of the gas, and is mixed with a stream Of water
in a water ejector. Considerable trouble was experienced
with the equipment at the beginning, but before the ex-
periment was finished, the 'brorninator was perfected to a
point where very little maintainence was required. The
machine is less than five feet high and one foot in diam-
eter. Its bottom extends into the bromide cylinder and a
flange on the machine fastens it securely to the cylinder.
The cylinder and machine together, therefore, stand about
five feet high.

Irritation

During this experiment, an attempt was made tO deter-
mine the effect on the eyes and nose of bathers, with the
use Of Ohlorine and bromine. In a study of this type it
must be recognized that irritation of the eyes varies tre-
mendously between different individuals and it also varies
to a large degree with the extent Of the period of expo-
sure tO the water. pH also has some effect on irritation.
Some swimmers complain Of irritation in water with no
chlorine or bromine residual present. The swimming
coaches and the students were not notified when bromine
or chlorine were being used. Reports of irritation had no
logical relationship to concentrations of either chlorine or
bromine. Occasional reports of irritation were received
when using either bromine or chlorine, but it is the con-
tention of the authors that this would not be attributed to
the disinfectant used. It was also observed that nO Odor
was noticeable in the pool room for the residuals carried.

Conclusions
1. Nearly the same bacteriological results were ob-
tained when a residual Of 0.5 ppm. of either bromine or

chlorine was used.
2. It was found from routine operation that it takes
about twice as much bromine by weight to carry a resid-
ual of 0.5 ppm. than it takes with free chlorine.
3. The streptocci index indicates the presence Of mouth
contamination and is a good measure of varying degrees
Of contamination in swimming pools.
4. COli indices are usually zero at normal residuals Of
bromine or chlorine.
5. Satisfactory equipment can be developed for apply-
ing bromine tO swimming pools.
6. Irritation of the eyes does not result with bromine or
chlorine when used at normal concentrations.

\Ve shall be interested in receiving any further
comments or reports based on experiences, studies
or experiments on this problem, and shall be glad
to pass any such information on_ to our readers.

RECREATION

 

The instructor demonstrates skiing techniques to high school students and coaches at Winter Sports School.

State Winter Sports

 

N A 'UNIQUE venture sponsored by the New

York State Public High School Association,
St. Lawrence University of Canton, New York,
was host to the state’s First Annual Winter Sports
School, December 20-23. Sixty-one high school
students, coaches and community recreation lead-
ers attended the four-day session of training in ski-
ing, winter camping and winter recreational sports.

In two respects the venture was novel in New
York State. In the hrst place, it represented the
initial attempt to train teachers for further teach-
ing of skiing and winter recreational activities.
Secondly, it marked the hrst time that a standard
system of instruction and practice-nin the form of
the New York State Unilied System of Skiing—
had been established and promoted in the state for
any one sport.

This system of skiing, which is designed for
both recreational and competitive activity, was
taught by skimeister Otto Schniebs of Lake Placid
and a corp of instructors which included three
former St. Lawrence University ski captains and
other outstanding skiers in the east.

Meanwhile, instructors of Syracuse University

FEBRUARY 1948

taught winter camping, hiking and other recrea-
tional activities to the students at the school.

Most of the practical work of the course was
conducted at St. Lawrence University’s 300-acre
Snow Bowl in South Colton, New York, adjacent
to the campus. Talks and informal discussions
with movies were held in the university’s beautiful
Common Room in the Men’s Residence.

At the end of the four days, the individual stu-
dents were checked-out as to their skiing proli-
ciency and their rate of progress during the course.
A certificate was later made out and sent to each
student with the instructors’ rating of the student’s
ability. All persons connected with the school
judged it an outstanding success and expressed the
hope that it would become an annual affair.

Dr. Joseph J. Romoda, head of the education
department at St. Lawrence, acted as director of
the school. He was assisted by George Krablin of
the university’s department of health and physical
education. Among the many observers at the
school were Robert Carr, head of the physical
education division of the State Education Depart-
ment, and members of the New York State Public
High School Athletic Council.

527

 

SNIP—A “quiet nlental” game in which the leader points
to a player, spells a three-letter word such as “dog,” counts
quickly to twelve and says “Snip.” Before she reaches
snip, player must say three words beginning with a letter
in the original word. Player might say duck, oyster, girl.

 

 

SNAP—A mental game. Players numbered, all slap thighs, clap ht
snap fingers. On snap, leader calls a number and a geographical 1i
Group again goes through rhythm. On second snap, person 
number was called must call number of another and give geograri.
name beginning with last letter of one previously called. I

 PA RT]

PEOPLE HAVE PLAYED social games since time
immemorial, but more people than ever are
playing them today. Their popularity during the
war, for both the military and civilians at recreas
tion centers for servicemen, has carried over into
civilian life.

One of the secrets of a successful party is that the
games appear to be spontaneous, whereas, actually
they have been carefully planned. Games must be
keyed to the age and interests of the group, must
be changed before interest lags, and must maintain
a lively pace so that the evening will hum with good
spirits and gaiety. Hostesses who have attempted to
get party games going, only to have them fall Hat,
probably failed for lack of sufficient advance plan-

MIXER—In Human Checkers, six persons are seated
—three girls, vacant chair, three men. Players move
like checkers, one at a time, in one direction, can
jump only one person. Object: to get players in
opposite order. Several teams can compete.

RECREATION

THREESOMES—A hostess who finds women

guests outnumbered by men, or vice versa,
can help equalize matters in this dance.
Guests form trios of two men and onc woman, if men
predominate. The woman stands in center of each
trio and the three join hands, facing other trios in a
circle. To the music of “Red River Valley,” they
alternate partners as indicated by a caller. This dis-
tribution insures a gay time for all.

 

AMES

\

ning, familiarity with the games to be presented, or
awkwardness in setting the mood of the party.

One sort of game should be used at the beginning
of the evening to keep just-arriving guests occupied;

another serves as a “mixer” and turns a roomful of
' TEAM W'ORD GAMES—Two tcams prepare for stunt

. . ‘c 0 a:
Strangers Into a gay group ’ latex} qulet mentfll game. Selected two-part words are sung in a ditty
games can be fun and successful w1th a group whlch such as “Did you ever see a fun-3841,», a horse.f1y,

has become acquainted and at ease. etc.?” Other team comes back with another word.
Examples: peanut stand, cigar box, river bank.

 

Teaching people how to play is important. The
photos shown here were taken by Paul Berg of the
St. Louis Post-Dispatch at a recreation institute for
recreation directors, recently sponsored by the Park
and Recreation Association in St. Louis and con-
ducted by a staff member of the National Recreation
Association. Reprinted by permission, Post-Dispatch.

MUSICAL ROMANCE—Each player has pencil and

paper. Leader at piano tells a story intersperscd with
passages from well-known tunes, titles of which fill
in the story. Players write down titles as melodies are

played. Most complete list wins.

    

I FEBRUARY 1948

In which the author stirs up some
points that will be well for the
recreation worker to remember.

Are we Fair to Our Children?

June Berg

N THE QUESTION of the advisability of all-out
0 competitive sports for elementary grade
students it was gratifying, at an institute for the
in—service training of rural and city elementary
teachers on physical education in Montana, to
hear the «state supervisor—Mr. Carl E. Klafs—
flatly say and often reiterate that highly competi-
tive sports for under high school age are detrimen-
tal and often dangerous. Though the medical
authorities have been saying this for years, the
question needs to be emphasized and to be pointed
up once again to physical education and recreation
workers and to parents. We have a way of grow—
ing lax about what the authorities say!

Before we get into this discussion, however, let’s
understand what we mean by competitive sports.
We refer to interschool, interplayground athletics,
or to field days in which the competition involved
is the sole goal, rather than the enjoyment of the
sport itself. All activities involving big muscle ac-
tion, such as running or jumping, have a multitude
of values for growing boys and girls but not when
the children are egged on to a point of high excite-
ment, followed by exhaustion. When a sport has
gone to the point where a child must pay in dis-
turbed physical, mental and emotional equilibrium
the slightest bit, then you are touching what we
call competitive sports, as competitive sports are
conducted in the majority of instances.

\Ve don’t advocate taking competition out of
sports; but we are against highly competitive tour-
naments, particularly for pre—adolescent and early
adolescent years. The least these can be is detri-
mental. The pressure of his classmates, his
parents, and his own natural desire to win is so
bitter and galling when upset by a loss that many
a child’s spirit is broken. As a physical education
instructor myself, I have seen high school teams

530

return from district tournaments, whipped, as

guilty as if they had committed all the crimes on
the calendar.

“That could such an emotional upset do to a
younger child’s mind and personality? He is not
mentally or psychologically or physiologically able
to bear the stress. Here, we must take child psy—
chology into careful consideration. The youngster
becomes. frustrated, embittered, the dregs of fail-
ure are hateful in his mouth; he doesn’t under-
stand how to combat this personal slap in the face,
because that’s the way he takes it.

This is misguided sportsmanship.

Some adults—and to adults the idea of competi—
tiveness really belongs—will say, “Teach him to
take a few knocks! Let him learn the game early
so that when he comes to high school, he will really
be able to play.”

A car whose motor is raced when it is new, will,
as a rule, never be a good car or even a fair car.
A child who has received a crushing defeat when
he was dead sure of victory, never forgets the sting
of that defeat. When he enters high school, he
may go so far as to refuse to participate in sports
because he doesn’t want to take that kind of blow
again, no matter what his age.

At our state meeting, the supervisor went on to
say that rather than teaching competitive sports,
we should give young boys and girls the funda-
mentals of games but keep them on the learning
level; that we should teach them about travelling,
about passing, how to shoot a basket, until the
class as a majority can do these things well. There
are innumerable play and lead-up games incorpor-
ating one or more of the principles of the major
sports toward which the children are heading.
“Play these,” said Mr. Klafs, “they will like them.

RECREATION

 

They are within their age and physical ability
range, and they will be absorbing the line points
which some day their team coaches won’t have to
stop and install in them.” He states that a coach

can easily enough and quickly enough make a-

teammate out of any student from a freshman on,
teach him to handle the ball properly if the ele-
mentary grades have taught the child to handle
himself properly.

No one who expects his sports program to be
successful will say: “Take all competition out.”
Any boy or girl who practices bouncing a ball on
the floor is competing—against his own fumble-
iingers. But for success composed of health and
child satisfaction, “Take out
excessive competition at the
elementary and junior high
level. The children are not
ready for it.” Round-robin
schedules of twenty basket-
ball games among fifth to
eighth graders, followed by
a double elimination tourna-
ment, have left the players
physically and mentally ex-
hausted. Their emotions and
mental faculties have com-
pletely blacked out. Such oc-
currences are not uncommon.
Ask a doctor about a child’s
chance to recover from such
black-outs. He will shake
his head at the odds.

Some will say that children play major sports
games on sandlots and backyards, regulation style,
as tight as they can go. But in backyards there
isn’t that emotional strife, that do—or-die feeling
inspired by spectators. -

At our state meeting, one school administrator.
asked about the use of a county-wide standard
track meet as a yearly get-acquainted event among
,' the grade school pupils. Did the state supervisor
approve it? He answered, “No. I have seen track
- meets where first-graders were running two and
three heats of the fifty-yard dash. I have seen the
high-jumps cripple two children because their
academic teacher didn’t know how to teach them
to land safely. Seventh and eighth grade girls
were putting the eight-pound shot.”

“What would you suggest as a replacement for
I such a meeting? Would you cut out all track
events?”

“No, I wouldn’t. I would choose relays or those
mass games where all visitors could play. Arrange
your contestants so that each school has represen-

FEBRUARY 1948

Dirty Dishes

Thank God for the dirty dishes
They have a story to tell
And by the stack I have

It seems we are living well.

While the people of other coun-
tries are starving

I haven’t the heart to fuss

For by this stack of evidence'

God’s very good to us.

By Mary Stuber, Junior High school stu-
dent, from 1946 Antkology of Ohio Verse.

 

: w -mu Lu. 1. 2‘1;

Jacksonville, cu.
tatives on each team. Let them play for fun—not

for ‘blood.’ ”
On your playground or in your school or even

'in your own family, consider who wants the antag-

onism of competitive sports? Y on do; and your
school board because tourneys are fine money-
makers, good publicity and standard fare on the
athletic menu. Don’t give your townspeople, your
student-body or playground clientele a steady diet
of only tournament stuff which requires a small
percentage of the possible participants! Make your
program so varied that all can play. Teach the

‘ children something they can take home, something

they can carry into adult life. Folk dancing, for
instance, will have more per-
sons taking part, fewer root-
ers on the side-lines. What
is the age limit for enjoying
it? I have never heard.
Each locality has its own

regulations; but few school
authorities or parents insist
upon a pre-physical exam,
or even a post until—a post
mortem (as in one instance
when they discovered that
the child had a cardiac con-
dition). High school, col-
lege, amateur and profes-
sional athletes are constant-
ly under the doctor’s thumb
for a pulse count. Why stick
a little fellow, whose heart is
not even of age, under such blistering, all—out effort
that he may develop a heart condition that could
wheelchair him for the rest of his days? Medical
authorities state that a small boy uses as much en-
ergy as a football player during the courSe of a day.
But not—stop to think—in the same amount of
time! Don’t let the promoters of highly competitive
sports tell you that pitting him against others his
own age won’t be harmful, for he is bound to at-
tempt to put out the energy of an adult in an
adult’s time with a child’s body mechanism.

Not only do we know a child’s heart is not
equipped for all-out competitive sports, but neither
are his bones, particularly those of the shoulders.
Collarbones can break when thudded against a
football dummy. Football is among the more dan-
gerous of all sports for men of college age; what
is an immature, inexperienced boy doing with it?

“They will reach competition soon enough and
have to live in it for the rest of their days. Let
your children be children and play as children
while children,” said Mr. Klafs. I agree with him.

531

Poetry Project. . .

(Why not a poetry project in a recreation program?)

HE STATE OF Ohio again makes an interesting
Tand successful attempt to stimulate school
children to express themselves in poetry. A new
Poetry Project was recently sponsored by the
State Department of Education. In six counties
there were more than 300 entries. Montgomery
County alone had 843 entries.

Forty-eight counties accepted the state’s invita-
tion to organize a county poetry committee with
an able chairman to promote the project in the
schools. The three winning poems from each of
these counties (one poem from elementary schools,
one from junior high schools and one from senior
high schools) were judged by a local judging com-
mittee and automatically accepted for publication
in the Annual Anthology of Ohio Verse. Poems
from the fifteen counties remaining, that wanted to
cooperate but had no county poetry committees,
were selected by the State ludges’ Committee.

It is possible that next year the elementary
school poems will be classified according to grade
to prevent first graders from having°to compete

with sixth graders. Neither of the following poems
were printed in the Anthology but they were so
interesting, we publish them here:

Spring
(By a first grader)

The grass is green '

The sky is blue
The earth is fresh
I feel like new.

The Sailor’s Pants
(By a fifth grader)

The sailor’s pants show every movement
There isn’t any room for improvement

In 'fact I have the word of the tailor
There’s hardly room enough for the sailor.

This is a project in which English teachers and
other teachers, the poets of various communities,
parents, and citizens of promotional media are all
cooperating. It is genuinely fine recreation and its
sponsorship by the State Department of Education
seems quite logical.

 

The Curtain Goes Up—

For Youngsters

FOUR YEARS AGO, the Footlight Players of
Charleston, South Carolina, added to their
yearly schedule of activities the project of produc-
ing three plays each season for children. The
project was undertaken at the request of the ,Cen-
tral Council of the Charleston Parent-Teachers
Association and has succeeded through the cooper—
ation and collaboration of the Players and the
Council. It has had the enthusiastic support and
help of the schools, both public and private, and
of music and dancing teachers.

The plays are for the entertainment of children,
but not necessarily performed entirely by them.
Adults, teen-age boys and girls and youngsters are
cast as the script requires. Every effort is made
to give an opportunity to all young people in the

532

city to try out for parts and to avail themselves of
the training in preparing, rehearsing and present-
ing the series. It is the wish of the Council and the
Players to discover and deve10p native talent.

Too high a tribute cannot be paid to the actors
and actresses for their interest, their untiring ef—
forts to please the children and to give their finest
performances, rehearsing long hours and travelling,
rain or shine, to give a play and to offer the truth,
sincerity and human understanding required by the
young playgoers. Footlight Players receive no
radio or press raves or reviews. There aren’t even
programs to give them credit—the children can’t
read, being too young. Their reward, however, is
of the highest: they have won the admiration and
love of their audiences.

RECREATION

 

     

 

World at Play

4-H Awards —— The United States Rubber
Company has agreed to provide awards in a Na-
tional 4—H Recreation and Rural Arts Program,
which is just now being offered to State Extension
Services throughout the United States. Coinci—
dental with the inauguration of this program, the
State 4-H Club Leaders voted to set up a National
4-H Recreation Committee to evaluate and make
suggestions for a long-time recreation program.

Recreation Institutew—Sponsoring agencies
of the Great Lakes Park Training Institute have
scheduled the topics of public relations and park
and recreation administration for their second an-
nual institute to be held again at Pokagon State
Park, Angola, Indiana, the week of February 23
to 27 inclusive. The Institute is conducted by the
School of Health, Physical Education and Recrea-
tion of Indiana University with the various state
park departments and municipal park associations
of the midwest, the American Institute of Park
Executives and the National Conference on State
Parks as co-sponsors.

What Does Recreation Mean to\You?—-This
question was asked by Henry H. Lewis and Glenn
B. Sanbbrg in their article “RecreatiOn in Our
| Church” which appeared in the November High—
road, a periodical prepared by the General Board
of Education of the Methodist Church in Nash-
*j ville, Tennessee. Here is the authors’ list of some

0f-the objectives of good recreation:

1. Must be creative——re-—creation, not wreck-reation.

2. Must develop interests, attitudes, and appreciations-—
more than just games, crafts, athletics, etc.

3. Must be cooperative, not competitive!

4. Must develop personality, character, wider horizons.

5. Must develop self-expression—an emotional outlet.

6. Must give a feeling of security—of “belonging” to
your group.

7. Must break down barriers between individuals.

Watch the Birdie !——~Photography as a hobby
is encouraged and well-supported by the Recrea-
tion Department of San Francisco, California. The
Department’s Photography Center provides twen—
ty enlargers, six contact printers, automatic wash-
ers, automatic driers, floodlights, chemicals for

FEBRUARY 1948

 

printing and enlarging and other photographic
equipment for its adults and high school boys and
girls. During the year lectures, exhibits and com—
petitions are held and from time to time, some of
San Francisco’s leading photographers offer a
few “pointers” to the amateur photographers at
the Center. In addition, the Recreation Depart-
ment’s directors are always ready to assist and
advise'those who desire help.

\

Looking Things Over—The Playground and
Recreation Department of Lexington, Kentucky,
took inventory recently and decided just what it
can and will do, should and would do, and what it
has done in the past. Under “This We Can and
Will Do,” the Recreation Department listed,
among its ten recommendations, the-building of a
volley ball court and bound ball court closer to
the playground area at Castlewood; repairing and
painting bleachers on the, softball ‘dianiond at the
same park, and roofing the pavilion at Woodland
playground. Included under “This We Should
Do” were suggestions for installing new drinking
fountains at each park and playground and pur-
chasing new playground apparatus for each park
and playground (approximately $2,200). Wishful
thinking—“This We Would Like to Do”-——c0n-
tained. hopeful plans for the constructing of a
wading pool at Woodland Park, building bleacher
seats at the softball diamond at the park so that it
might be possible to charge a small admission for
exhibition games, and twelve other items.

533

A City of Action—“Los Angeles, California,
has been making several important advances in the
postwar expansion and development of its munic-
ipal system of recreation and parks. The City
Recreation and Park Commission has approved an
agreement which proposes that the state of Cali-
fornia buy virtually all remaining, privately-owned
beach frontage in the Venice-Del Rey area—
totalling about two miles—“and turn this over to
the city, on a long-term lease basis, for municipal
operation and deve10pment. The Commission has
also accepted a deed to seventy acres in the San
Fernando valley—bought with $62,500 in funds
contributed by local residents and $50,000 granted
by the state—and is planning its development as a
district recreation and park facility. In addition,
the Recreation and Park Commission has author-
ized negotiations with the City Airport Commis-
sion to acquire a thirty-acre tract for district recre-
ation purposes, and is making plans for a munici-
pal tennis stadium with a capacity of 4,000 seats.

Your Garden in February—“There may still
be snow on the ground—“and probably more to
come—but the National Garden Institute of New
York suggests that you start your outdoor garden-
ing now by doing the following things:

Finish pruning shrubs, fruit and other trees-—
it’s well to wait until heavy freezing is over before
pruning grapes, roses and other vines and shrubs.
Cuttings of flowering shrubs with buds may be
forced indoors in water.

Drain and fill in ruts in driveways with gravel
or cinders. Fill holes in lawn with top soil.

Look over all plantings carefully for scale in-
sects, galls and insect nests.

Build or repair coldframes and hotbeds. ‘As the
sun becomes warmer, start some early seed plant-
ings in coldframes or hotbeds outdoors.

Spade the vegetable garden as soon as the
ground thaws and is dry enough to work without
“puddling.” ‘

We Can Dream—Imagine two miles of
ocean beach, cocoanut palm trees as leafy shades,
clean, white sand, acres of landscaped piciiic and
play areas. This is Florida’s most recent Utopia
—-Crandon Park in Dade County. The Park and
its Rickenbacker Causeway, formally opened in
November, are provided for the citizens of today

534

I

—and tomorrow. Plans for the development of
needed facilities for this recreation haven are still
on the draftsman’s table, but eventually major fea-
tures to be installed will include: archery and
driving ranges, eighteenhole golf course and club
house, shuffleboard courts, horseshoe, lanes, table
tennis, softball and baseball diamonds, pre-school
play areas, a riding aCademy, miniature railway I

and marinas for power and sail boats. I

Folk Festival—If you are interested in par-
ticipating in the 14th Annual National Folk Fes-
tival, April 7-10 inclusive, St. Louis, Missouri“
write to Sarah Gertrude Knott, Director, National
Folk Festival, Room 320, 511 Locust Street, St.
Louis I, Missouri.

Calling All Cars—“WANTED by the Los

Angeles Police Department—man or woman to
play an instrument in the new Deputy Auxiliary
Police Band. SUSPECT must be between twelve
and twenty years of age, have ability and talent
with a band instrument that he or she would like
to use in the Los Angeles Number I Youth Activ-
ities Program. REWARD—furtherance of musi-
cal education, public appearances, parades, football
games, beach trips, mountain trips, good times as
a member of the band.

This clever plea was issued in October as a reg-
ular Police Bulletin, complete with fingerprints
belonging to the ten fingers needed to play an
instrument.

 

By permission. Copyright The New Yorker Magazine, I uc.

RECREATION

 

Recognition for distinguished work in health,
physical education and recreation awarded by
the American Academy of Physical Education

Yearly Awards

HE AMERICAN ACADEMY of Physical Educa-
Ttion, which was established in 1926, and is a
restrictive member organization comprised of
those who have made distinguished contributions
to the field of health, physical education and rec-
reation, provides recognition of achievements in
these areas through the form of an award. Every
effort is made to select the outstanding contribu-
tion in the field of research, publications, adminis-
tration, creative work and operating programs.
The awards are made annually by a majority vote
of active members of the Academy.

Recommendations must be submitted prior to
February 15 for consideration during that calen-
dar year. They may be made by any recognized
organization and institution concerned with physi-
cal education and/or by members of the American
Association of Health; Physical Education, Recre-
ation and fellows of the American Academy of
Physical Education, Commissioners of. Education,
State Directors, and other persons ‘in official ca-
pacity associated with the field of physical educa-
tion and its related areas. They may be sent to
any member of the Awards Committee of the
American Academy of Physical Education.

Regulations:

I. Administrative Award. This award is de-
signed to recognize one or more individuals who
have projected and carried out with success an
outstanding administrative task in physical educa-
tion.

Recommendations will consider projects which
have been consummated not earlier than two years
preceding the date of award. Such recommenda-
tions should describe in sufficient detail the nature
of the task, what it involved, how and when it was
carried out, and its peculiar contribution in meth-
ods, approach and outcomes. Supplemental mate-
rials such as reports or printed “write ups” should
be forwarded to the committee. 0

2. Program Citations Award. The Academy of

Physical Education will from time to time recog-
nize high-grade programs in physical education

FEBRUARY 1948

and its related fields through citations which are
designed to honor organizations and institutions
rather'than individuals.

. Recommendations for such citations will be con-
sidered by the committee in the form of a prelim-
inary description and evaluation of the outstand-
ing program. The committee will then make its
own investigation and evaluation. Consideration
will be given to programs which have been in
operation not less than one year. Programs will
be cited for the specific years in which they have
been operated in accord with a high level of pro-
fessional standards.

3. Creative Award. This is to provide recogni-
tion of outstanding contributions made by creative
work, the impact of which is significant and defin-
able. Distinguished creative efi'ort does not have
to be couched in any specific form as long as it
contributes to the growth and development of the
profession of physical education and related areas.
It may take any form of representation, art forms,
music, dance, invention, etc., as long as the work
is notable -for its excellence and importance.

Recommendations for this award shall include
as complete a description as possible of the crea-
tive work; its outstanding characteristics; its con-
tribution to the profession; whatever tangible evi-
dence as can be obtained; and names of references
with whom the committee may correspond. The
committee will consider projects for this award
which have been consummated or have been in
operation not less than one year and not more than
five years prior to the date of consideration.

4. Publication Award. An award shall be made
for a publication considered to be an outstanding
contribution to the literature in physical education
and areas related to physical education.

It shall be made for a new and complete publica-
tion dealing with a unified body of subject matter.
(Reprints, magazines, annual reports of confer-
ence meetings, individual articles included in larger
publications, and the like are excluded.) The pub-
lication must be in the form of a book or mono-

535

graph. (Posters, charts, and similar publications
are excluded.) The publication must be printed.
(Off-set, multigraphed, mimeographed, and simi-
lar publications are excluded.) It must be issued
(date marked) at least one year before it is con-
sidered for an award, and must be issued not more
than three years. The publication may deal with
any phase (or phases) of the subject (or subjects)
covered. (The only exceptionlis research reports
which are subject to consideration for the Research
Award.) One person cannot be considered for two
awards at one time.

The principal grounds for making the award
shall be the content subject matter covered, and
the character of treatment (scholarship, etc.). If
the format of the book warrants it, the author and
the publisher shall receive a copy of the award.

Normally it shall be the practice to make one
award annually. If conditions warrant doing so,
however, more than one award may be given, or
no award need be given. The award shall be
memorialized in the form of a suitably inscribed
certificate, one copy being presented to the author.
In the case of joint authorship, each author shall
be given a copy. In the case of publications pre-
pared under organization sponsorship without
specific authorship, a certificate shall be presented
to the sponsoring organization.

5. Research Award. This is designed to give
recognition to outstanding contributions through
research. The research must have been published
and digests or reprints submitted for considera-
tion. It must have appeared in print during the
current calendar year. It will be judged on the
nature and difficulty of the problem; the organiza-
tion and effectiveness of techniques and the appli-
cation of the findings. Normally, it shall be the
practice to make one award annually. If condi-
tions warrant doing so', however, more than one
award may be given, or no award may be given.

The committee will consider research which is
brought to its attention through any recognized
agency such as institutions of higher learning,
social and youth agencies, commissioners of educa-
tion, members of the American Association of
Health, Physical Education, and Recreation, and
Fellows of the Academy of Physical Education.
The Research Council of the American Associa-
tion of Health, Physical Education, and Recrea-
tion will cooperate with the Academy in evaluat-
ing submitted research.

Members of the Committee of Awards

Recommendations may be sent to any member
of the Awards Committee of the American Acad-
emy of Physical Education:

536

Dr. Frank S. Lloyd, Chairman, College of the City of
New York; Dr. W'illiam R. LaPorte, sub-chairman, Uni-
versity of Southern California, Los Angeles, California;
Dr. Arthur H. Steinhaus, George Williams College, Chi-
cago 15, Illinois; Dr. Mable Lee, University of Nebraska,
Lincoln, Nebraska; Dr. S. C. Staley, University of Illi-
nois, Urbana, Illinois; Dr. D. K. Brace, University of
Texas, Austin 12, Texas; Dr. Peter V. Karpovic-h,
Springfield College, Springfield 9, Massachusetts; Dr.
Dorothy B. Nyswander, School of Public Health, Berke-
ley 4, California; Dr. Leonard Larson, New York Uni-
versity, Washington Square, New York 3, New York;
Dr. William L. Hughes, Temple University, Philadelphia
22, Pennsylvania; Dr. Elmer D. Mitchell, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Dr. Helen McKinstry,
Russell Sage College, Troy, New York; Dr. Frederick
W. Luehring, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania; Dr. Laurantine Collins, Detroit Public
Schools, Detroit, Michigan; Dr. Anna Schley Duggan,
Box 2666, Texas State College for Women, Denton,
Texas; Dr. V. S. Blanchard, Detroit Public Schools,
Detroit, Michigan; Dr. Mabel E. Rugen, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Dr. John F. Bovard,
University of California, Los Angeles'24, California.

 

Clifford L. Weatherwax

CLIFFORD L. VVEATI—IERWAX died in Jackson,
Michigan, November 4, 1947. He had served
with distinction since June I, 1943, as Jackson’s
first year-round superintendent of recreation. His
genial personality and his kindly ways will be
greatly missed by the young people of Jackson and
by the professional recreation leaders of Michigan
and nearby states. The Jackson Citizen Patriot,
in its issue of November 6, paid tribute to Mr.
Weatherwax in the following words*:

“It isn’t going to be easy to replace Clifford L.
W eatherwax. He was that rarest of men, a worker
whose heart was in his job. For him every boy
and girl in Jackson was a challenge. He earnestly
strove to find a place in healthy play for each of
them. And he succeeded in a great way.

“Jackson’s progress in public recreation during
the years of Mr. W’eatherwax’s service as director
has been a source of profound satisfaction to those
thinking citizens who in the past were concerned
at the weakness of this program. Working always
with a restricted departmental income, Mr.
Weatherwax made the most of every penny. He
wanted boys and girls off the streets and engaged
in clean play. He believed that the way to reduce
juvenile delinquency was to provide proper out-
lets for youthful energy and enthusiasm.

:‘Jackson has lost a good citizen and an outstand-
ing public servant. Every boy and girl and a mul-
titude of adults have lost a fine friend.”

 

*Reprinted by permission.

RECREATION

 

Retreution SUGGESTION BOX

Helpful hints and bits of information on

this and that. Ways of doing things that
have been proved through experience.

 

 

Have You Tried?—

In Special Projects—“Having senior high
school girls and boys act as volunteer leaders-of
younger groups in special recreation projects such
as parties, picnics, stunts, games, festivals and

the like. (Many of these young people are poten- '

tial playground leaders for the future.)

We’re All American Parties—Having vari-
ous nationality groups in the neighborhood put on
- their native folk dances, display their native art,
sing native songs. This sort of party is excellent
for use during Brotherhood Week. (See page

522.)

Murder—Passing out slips to all of the
guests present. Most of the slips are blank. How-
ever, on one is written the word “Detective”; on
the second, “Assistant”; and on the third, “Mur-
derer.” If the game is to be played in one room,
the lights are turned out and the players move
about occupying different positions than they did
before the lights were extinguished. The person
who has the slip with the word “Murderer” on it
must lay his hands on some individual. That per-
son screams and falls to the floor and immediately
the lights are turned on. The person holding the
slip with the word “Detective” on it decides who
has committed .the crime. The slip with “Assis-
tant” is used only in case the murderer has laid his
hands on the person who held the slip containing
word “Detective.” The detective—or assistant—
starts questioning the guests, one at a time, asking
What they know about'the crime and where they
were at the time it was committed. All of the
guests, with the exception ‘of the murderer, must
tell the truth. When the detective thinks he 'has
questioned people sufficiently and collected enough
evidence, he may make one accusation. The per-
son accused then has the privilege of selecting an

( FEBRUARY 1948

attorney for his defense. The group chooses a
district attorney and a judge to preside over the
case. A trial is then held to determine whether
the person accused by the detective is guilty or not.
It is sometimes advisable, if the group is very
large, to select a jury. Otherwise, all people not
engaged in the court are jurors.

The success of the game depends on selecting a
detective and district attorney who can put ques-
tions quickly and cleverly and draw out all sorts
of amusing “detective story” information.

For a shorter, though not so amusing version
of the game, allow the detective three guesses as to
who committed the crime, and eliminate the trial:

Sit and Sing—Having everyone leave the
room except one person. He hides a coin or other
object in a secluded spot, but in plain sight.
Everyone is instructed to search for the coin, and
when he finds it he must not disturb it, but must
go to a chair, sit down and start to sing. Last per—
son down gives a forfeit.

Free Films

The following recreation motion picture films
are available, free of charge, to schools, clubs and

other organizations upon request from the Fisher

"60 v left!

THE PLAYGROUND NOTEBOOK
1947 SUMMER EDITION

$1.00

First come—first served!

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N. Y.

 

537

Body Division of General Motors, General Motors
Building, Detroit, Michigan. The user pays only
the nominal shipping charges to and from Detroit.

“First Century of Baseball”——The new Ameri-
can League sound film; narration by Ted Husing,
ace sports announcer. This is a pictorial history
of baseball, based upon the findings of the Mills
Commission, which traces the game from its rudi-
mentary forms to the “big league” type of games
of today. The picture requires approximately
forty-two minutes for a showing, is available in
both I6 mm. and 35 mm. sizes. Both carry the
sound track along the edge and require the use of
a sound projector.

“Let’s Go Fishing”——-A new two-reel sound

picture starring Tony Accetta, the United States
professional all-around bait and fly-casting cham-
pion. Narrated by Ted Husing, this presents a
comprehensive lesson in fishing and bait-casting,
illustrating right and wrong methods. An enter-
taining film to introduce fishing to general audi-
ences as well as to present new ideas to true
disciples of Isaac Walton. Film sizes: 16 mm. and
3 5 mm. with sound track; showing time—sixteen
minutes. '

“Let’s Go Fishing ,Again”—A new fly-casting
sound movie which is a sequel to “Let’s Go ,Fish-
ing,” and also is narrated by Ted Husing. Sizes:
16 mm. and 35 mm. with sound track; showing
time—twenty minutes.

‘9

Metropolitan Miniatures

UTSTANDING TREASURES from the collections
0 of the Metropolitan Museum of Art are
being introduced to the nation through a new proj-
ect which involves the distribution of a series of
miniature color reproductions of these treasures.

The Miniatures, in the form of poster-stamps,
come in a set which is reproduced on a large per-
forated sheet of paper and which includes twenty-
four reproductions of paintings, sculpture and
other art objects from the collections. Each pic-
ture is about two by two and a half inches in size
and is as faithful a reproduction in color as modern
techniques of color photography and plate making
processes can provide.

The set is available for $1.00, and each pur- '

chaser sending in his subscription will receive, free
of charge, an album into which the stamps maybe
pasted. Every miniature has its place on the al-
bum’s pages, with notes on the life of the artist
and the historic and artistic qualities of the object.

The Miniatures can be put to many uses.

Of special interest to recreation workers will be
the fact that they offer interesting possibilities for
the development of games involving the identifica-
tion of pictures; also that they lend themselves to
decorating purposes and are ideal for use on lamp-
shades, coasters, ash trays, boxes, and so on. Art
groups, craft groups, social groups, individuals—
all will enjoy this beautifully coloredart gallery
in miniature. It will be worth your while to send
for a set and look it over!

538

 

 

RECREATION

 

Puppets

Question—My son, age thirteen, thinks of
nothing but shows, plays, puppets, settings,
props, costumes. 1\Iy husband and 'I are of
absolutely no use to him so far as our knowl-
edge goes along these lines.

The two other children who help him are a
neighbor’s girl, age twelve (very artistic in
; puppet making and drawing), and my daugh-
ter, almost ten years old. She is a willing
third person but does not have the great urge
to produce plays that the other two have.

Can you help these children with pointers
for home plays, specialty acts, correct pro-
cedure? Most of their work so far hinges on
songs, music and tap dancing.

This is not just a passing fancy as I at first
thought. They have been working at shows
for four or five years and now need expert
advice.

They have nearly worn out the book “F am-
ily Fun” looking for ideas.

Answer—We were very much interested in your
letter because it is very unusual to find a young-
ster around thirteen years old who has such a
concentrated interest in some one activity, and
who has maintained this over such a long period
of time. It sounds 'as.though he may have a very
keen dramatic sense as well as a feeling for design
and production and he may very well be a candi-
date for good dramatic training in the future.

We have checked on our list, for your con-
venience, some of the material that will help him
and his two small satellites.

In addition, we are sending you several free

FEBRUARY 1948

 

Questions About—

bulletins and an extra copy of a manual issued by
one of the WPA projects in New York City. It
is very complete and we believe that your young-
ster will find it fascinating to study and to try out
the various types of puppets, stage productions,
costumes, and-the like.

Funds for Medicine

Question—Have you information of any city
which has an unofiicial fund to take care of
medical expenses incurred by participants in
recreation programs conducted by munici-
palities? Usually it is held by legal counsel
that public funds may be used for this pur-
pose, but it has been reported that there are
some cities that have private funds made
available to them for emergency cases.

Answer—Such funds are often provided by pro-
ceeds of a sports day program which usually in-
cludes several ball games and is conducted on a
city-wide level with preliminary advertising. The
proceeds of the sale of tickets for this sports event
formed the backbone of this fund in such cities as
Baltimore, Maryland; Cleveland, Ohio; and we
think, St. Louis, Missouri. Undoubtedly further
information can be had by writing direct to the
following: Mr. H. S. Callowhill, Director, De-
partment of Public Recreation, 1129 N. Calvert
Street, Baltimore, Maryland; Mr. John A. Turner,
Superintendent of Recreation, Department of
Parks and Recreation, 330 Municipal Courts
Building, St. Louis, Missouri; Mr. Floyd Rowe,
Coordinator of Recreation, Board of Education,
Cleveland, Ohio.

The recreation department handles the details,
office space, telephone, permits, and the like, for
such groups and, in the case of Baltimore, also
makes a sizable contribution to the cause.

Not similar, but of possible interest to you, is

539

the over-all insurance plan now working out very
successfully in VVisconsin'. The Journal of H with
and Physical Education for November 1945 also
carried a story about this plan which has been
conducted for several years. A similar plan is in
operation in several New England states, and the
small fee necessary from each participant, made
possible by the total enrollment of all of the young-
sters in the schools, makes the group insurance
plan an attractive and an efficient one.

A Summer Program

Question—Our community, with a population
of 5500, has no supervised recreation program
for children. Several women of the First
Methodist Church have discussed the possi-
bilities of a summer program for the children
of our church. Our present assets consist of
about 150 children between the ages of six
through fifteen years, a vacant lot adjoining
the church and some interested mothers who
will supervise afternoon play.

Any suggestions for recreation projects will
be a definite help to us in this undertaking.

Answer—VVe hope that you will not limit your
summer recreation program to the young people
of the Methodist Church only. A community of
5500 is certainly large enough to provide a rich

and adequate program for everyone both young
and old.

In the meantime, however, for your plan to con—
vert a vacant lot into a children’s playground to
be supervised by mothers, we are sending you a
number of bulletins which we know will be very
helpful not only in laying out and setting up this
playground, but in planning the activities. In addi—
tion to the books containing program suggestions,
we call your attention to the manual Conduct of
Playgrounds and our publication Recreation and
the Church which should be of special interest.

Errata

In regard to the reference to the National Park
Service in “Accent on Skiing” (page 495, The
Postman Brings, January 1948 issue of RECREA-
TION), we make the following corrections with our
sincere apologies: The National Park Service,

again located in \Vashin-gton, D. C. rather than
Chicago, announces that they no longer have a
winter sports specialist and that materials on this
subject are completely exhausted.

 

q

WANTED

Graduate. registered occupational
therapists and trained recreation
workers tor assignments in Illinois
state psychiatric hospitals, schools
tor mental detectives, children's
and correctional institutions. Civil
service positions. good salaries, op-
portunity tor advancement. excel-
lent retirement and insurance plan.
maintenance available.

Write:

Division of Personnel Service

Department of Public Welfare
. State Armory

 

Springfield. Illinois

In every field at sporl in Profes-
sionai.Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-

ball and Softball. in Universities,
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MaeGregor-Goldsmiih Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
mark of quality and unyarying
performance.

 W¢Ma em in,  .

C'NCINNA'I ll. OHEO. H. 5. A.

 

RECREATION

 

Personalities in the
Recreation News . . .

Pastor of the Valley Church

DOWN KENTUCKY WAY, Jefferson County--—'

ever since 1944—-—has been building up an
excellent county recreation service. One of the
leading spirits behind the development and plan-
ning of the Playground and Recreation Board is
its first chairman, the Reverend L. M. Sanders—
pastor of the Valley Christian Church. Pastor
Sanders, ever concerned with the good of the com-
munity, has a mind of his own and has accom—
plished much in cooperation with the good folks
of the valley. The following write-up of him ap—
peared recently in Time magazine* : \

A Banker in the Pulpit

For the twenty-fifth time in twenty—five years,
Pastor Max Sanders last week offered his resig-
nation. If one member voted to accept it, be ex—
plained as usual, he would resign. Max Sanders
is still pastor of Valley Christian Church, near
Louisville, Kentucky.

He is also the president of Louisville’s Stock
Yards Bank. (Because it is just across the way
from the Bourbon Stockyards, he likes to call it

“a stinking good bank”) Sanders works hard at '

both jobs and feels that they go together tine. “Be—
cause I live in the same world my people do, I am
closer to them,” he'says. “And I’m a better .banker
as the result of my preaching.”

White—haired, wispy little Lisle Maxwell San—
ders—who is often called “Mr. Kieran” for his
famed look—alike—was born forty-nine years ago,
the son of a Kentucky farmer and stock trader.
When he was eight he went to work as an errand
boy in the stockyards, and he gave up his school—

FEBRUARY 1948

ing after a single semeéter of high school. In 1932
he joined the bank as a clerk, and has been there
ever since.

Max Sanders became a Christian at a revival
run by Texas Evangelist Dr. George W. Truett.
When the single—room, red-brick Valley Christian
Church needed a pastor, he began preaching on
alternate Sundays to its congregation of eight.
Since 1923 he has carried on alone, with weddings
and sick calls as well as sermons. Now his con—
gregations run to I 50, out of a membership of 450.

When two couples from another congregation
asked to join his church because there were two
opposing factions in their own, Pastor Sanders
sent. them away. “Why, in my church there are
seven factions,” he said. “You go back and try
your church for another year. If you still can’t -
get along, then come back and you can join my
church.” As Sanders expected, they never re-
turned.

Valley Christian’s pastor has a direct, put—up—
or—shut-up banker’s approach to most problems.
At the church’s annual fund—raising he says: “Give
what you think this church is worth to you. ,If
you think it’s worth a dime, don’t let anybody talk
you into giving a dollar.”

Once, when someone asked whether his religion
ever interfered with his banking, Sanders ex-
ploded: “Christianity isn’t worth a tinker’s foot if
it won’t work! The place to find out if Christian-
ity works is, at your desk. I apply it to life as I
live it.”

 

*Courtesy of Time, Copyright Time Inc., 1947.

541

Private Agencies

Train Coop eratively
Jack P. Houlihan

OOLING THEIR LOCAL and national organiza—

tion resources, twenty-two private Commu-
nity Chest supported agencies working in recrea-
tion and allied fields, have launched their first joint
in—sérvice training program under the auspices of.
the Council of Social Agencies. Mrs. Ruth G.
Ehlers of the National Recreation Association
helped the series off to a good start when she
directed a social recreation program at the opening
session of the Washington Jewish Community
Center last November. It was the first time that
many of the workers in the different agencies had
met as a unit, and so Mrs. Ehlers’ “mixers” scored
heavily, both from the training as well as the social
aspects.

Coming from the staffs of Boys’ Clubs, Settle-
ment Houses, Neighborhood Centers, Boy and
Girl Scouts, Campfire Girls, Young Men’s and
Young Women’s Christian Associations, American
Youth Hostels and camping groups, the leaders
are sharing their experiences for the mutual bene-
fit of all. Specialists such as those from the Na-
tional Recreation Association staff, from national
agency staffs and from Washington, with its many
private and public agencies, contribute to the
monthly sessions. The leaders attend on agency
payroll time. .

In addition to receiving training in actual recre-
ational skills, the leaders are learning the philos-
ophy of recreation and group work. Consultants
to the Council’s Recreation Division in setting up
the training are: Dorothea Sullivan, Group Work.
instructor at Catholic University School of Social
Work; Milo Christiansen, D. C. Superintendent
of Recreation; and Charles Brightbill, National
Recreation Director of the Veterans Administra-
tion.

During the December 'session, the theme was
“Holiday Program Planning.” Specialists on the
program were Edmund Rosenberg of the National
Red Cross, and Clarice Smith of the D. C. Recre-
ation Department. Workshops were held on music,
drama, arts and crafts, nursery activities, social
recreation and game room activities.

Discussion leaders and summarizers for these
workshops were representatives of the various or-
ganizations participating.

Mr. H. Lloyd Wilson, Executive Secretary of

542

the Association of American Playing Card Manu—
facturers, was a guest leader, and gave a demon-
stration of card tricks and games. Inasmuch as
the Council of Social Agencies committee on hos-
pital recreation is interested in selling recreation
as a vital factor in patient recovery in civilian hos-
pitals—as it has proved to be in service hospitals
—Mr. W ilson’s demonstration of the use of card
bedside games was very helpful.

Just one big happy family, Washington’s private
and public recreation leaders are having a lot of
fun during their on-the-job training series.

 

Alfred Jensen . . .

National Recreation Association’s Apprentice
Fellow Takes Position in Syracuse, New York

(Henry Strong Denison Fund)

MR. JENSEN GRADUATED magna cum laude
from Syracuse University with special train-
ing in political science, economics, and sociology.
After forty months with the Army in the Philip-
pines, China, Formosa, and Japan, he reverted to
inactive service with the status of captain.

Following the war, he reentered Syracuse for
graduate work toward his Master’s and Ph.D. de—
grees in political science and government. He was
granted one of the Association’s Henry Strong
Denison Fund Apprentice Fellowships in 1947 and
was assigned to the Recreation Department in Syr-
acuse, New York, for administrative training.

Mrs. Helena Hoyt, the local superintendent,
recognized immediately his capacity for growth
and increased his responsibility and assignments
rapidly. A fitting climax to this very successful
training experience is Mr. Jensen’s appointment to
the position of assistant superintendent in the
Syracuse Recreation Department.

A recent letter indicates Mr. Jensen’s apprecia—
tion for this training opportunity:

“My thanks go to the National Recreation As-
sociation for the subsidization and the guidance
which have enabled me to obtain this position. It
is definite that without your help I would never
have entered the field and that with it two things
have been accomplished: recreation has another
trained worker, and I have a beginning for a ca—
reer. I shall try to live up to the standards you
have established for me. I feel that the practical
training and the gradual assumption of responsibil-
ity under the apprentice system is ideal for accom-
plishing the deve10pment of recreation leaders.”

RECREATION

 

At Headquarters . . .
George D. Butler

 

EORGE D. BUTLER, of the National Recreation
Association, flushed to the roots of his once

fair, but now graying hair. He smoothed the back
of his head and grinned, “Well, now, I don’t
know. . . .” You could see him longing for the

unobtrusiveness that he has tried (though unsuc- ‘

cessfully) to maintain during his many and quietly
efficient years with the Association. The truth- of
the matter is, that George Butler is shy; but his
work with the Association has been such that it
has drawn him into the foreground of recreation
work in spite of himself.

For a good many years his major staff respon-
sibility has been research. This is carried out in
the Association through committees and individual
research. Mr. Butler has worked both ways. He
has been allied with a number of committees on
such projects as the preparation of “Standards in
Playground Apparatus,” “Surfacing of Recreation
Areas,” “Record Keeping,” “Training Experience
and Compensation in Community Recreation Per—
sonnel.” He has served as Chairman of a commit-
tee on Standards of Outdoor Recreation Areas in
Housing Developments, at the request of the
American Recreation Society; and to a number
of occasions has been called to Washington as a
representative of the Association to consult on
recreation problems with federal planning, hous-

FEBRUARY 1948

ing, and park authorities. For many years, too, he
has been responsible for the Recreation Year
Book—a report and analysis of community recre-
ation developments throughout the country.

George Butler came to the Association soon
after returning from action overseas in the first
World war. A student of high standing during
his undergraduate days at Yale, his studies in
French had led him to be one of the first to sign
up with an ambulance unit to serve with the
French Army.

After twenty months overseas he returned to
New Haven and his former work with the Yale
Bureau of Appointments. He was a little sur-
prised, when permanent offers began coming along,
to find himself turning down an excellent banking
opportunity in favor of a position with a, recrea-
tion association. Although he had majored in eco-
nomics, the possible scope for service in the latter
undoubtedly decided him—~and has been the moti-
vating and guiding force in the performance of his
work ever since.

Soon after he joined the Association staff, the
Consultation and Correspondence Bureau was
formed as a central clearing house for information
and the answering of inquiries. George Butler
was put in charge, and was instrumental in build-
ing up that now flourishing department.

In 1930, 1935 and 1940 he was assigned to di-
rect three studies of municipal parks in the United
States: the first in cooperation with the United
States Department of Labor, the second with N a-
tional Park Service, the third with National Park
Service and the American Institute of Park Exec—
utives. The published reports of these studies pre-
sent a picture of the municipal and county park
movement in the United States that is available
from no other source.

To date, Mr. Butler, working in cooperation
with his colleagues, is responsible for many care-
fully exact and informative published materials in
the field of recreation. Several of these have be-
come standard textbooks in universities and col-
leges. Among them are: “Introduction to Commu-
nity Recreation,” which has had nine printings and
will appear in a revised edition this year; “Play-
grounds—Their Operation and Administration,”
“Recreation Areas— Their Design and Equip-
ment”—--the third in a series, the first two being on
“Play Areas” and “New Play Areas” ; and
“County Parks.” He prepared the text for a cor-
respondence course in Municipal Recreation Ad-
ministration, published by the International City
Manager’s Association. For several years he has
served as instructor in the course. He also has

543

CONVENTIONAL FABRICS weren't good

enough to give Voit balls the prOper
strength, bounce, feel and wear. So . . . we
bought a mill. By special spinning of our
own yarn from 1-1/32" cotton, we got an

approximately 20% stronger fabric. This
is iust another way Voit earns its title of
"America's Finest Athletic Equipment"!

FROM BALE TO BALL
VOlT DOES IT All!

Of '"
NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES 'll

dglm 6713sz
%/W gW/mz/

RECREATION

 

prepared training courses for recreation leaders
and has given a great deal of time and thought to

the subject of standards for recreation areas; and n

has represented the Association on committees
dealing with such variedwproblems as swimming
pools, statistical reporting, leadership standards,
recreation areas and facilities.

Quite aside from all this, George Butler achieves
a home life which is described enthusiastically by
his fellow workers. His is a musical family, and
one of which he can justifiably be proud. His two
boys are in college, one having been in the army.
In his opinion, the ideal form Of recreation is a
vacation with his family at Friendship, on the
coast of Maine. '

But Mr. Butler is not swallowed up by his job
and family, as evidenced by his community activ-
ities. He has served as chairman or president of
such local groups as the Home—School Association,
Playground Committee, Board of Adjustment and
Men’s Club, and is a member of the recently ap-
pointed Recreation Commission at Leonia, New
Jersey. He has been a Scoutmaster, taught Sun-
day school, and been generally active where local
interests are at stake.

 

Memorial to

Felix M. W‘arburg

x: MEMORY or Felix M. Warburg, noted philan-
I thropist, a forty-six acre tract of land in'West—
chester County, New York, was donated to the
state park system by Mr. ai’ld “Mrs. James N.
Rosenberg at a simple ceremony in their home on

I January I 3. The land, consisting of woods and

fields adjoining the Taconic State Parkway near
Pinesbridge Road, New Castle, is a particularly
fitting memorial, as the late Mr. Warburg was an
active member of the Westchester County Park
CommissiOn when the Taconic State Parkway was
under construction.

Mr. Warburg’s love of nature was recalled by
Mr. Rosenberg, retired head of a law firm. The
sixteen-year friendship between the two men
proved to him that “the faith by which Mr. War-
burg lived and for which he labored unceasingly
was, that there is but one race: humanity.” Mr.
Rosenberg termed the presentation “a small gift

I in honor of a great man.”

Mrs. Warburg, widow of the philanthropist,

f expressed the hope that the memorial tract would

enable children to live in an atmOSphere “more
truly a playground,” because her husband’s love

FEBRUARY 1948

for country and children was as great as his love
for the arts.

Mr. W arburg was chairman of the first Finance
Committee of the National Recreation Association
and also served as a member of the Association’s
Board of Directors.

Among the relatives and close friends of Mr.
Warburg attending the presentation ceremony was
a son, Frederick M. Warburg, who is also a mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the National
Recreation Association.

 

James N. Rosenberg (front left) turns over the

Felix M. Warburg memorial. Others seated: Mrs.
Warburg, Francis R. Masters, chairman of Taconic
State Park Commission. Standing: 'Gerald, Edward
and Frederick, sons of Mrs. Warburg.

 

Authors in This Issue. . .

HOWARD W HTTMAN—A professional newspaper
man who has turned his attention to writing on
American social problems. Article on page. 507.

NINCIE CURmER—Recreation therapist, Univer-
sity of Virginia Hospital, University of Virginia.
Article on page 510.

FLORENCE ANDERSON Author of “Try It
Yourself,” The lVomen’s Press, $1.00. Article
on page, 513.

CHARLIE VETTINER—Director, Jefferson Coun-
ty Playground and Recreation Board, Louisville,
Kentucky. Article on page 516.

JUNE BERG—Physical education instructor,
White Sulphur Springs, Montana. Article on page
530-

JACK P. HOULIngN—Secretary of Recreation
and Group Work Division, Council of Social
Agencies, Washington, D. C. and editor of the
American Recreation Society quarterly bulletin.
Article on page 542. "

 

545

546

 

Match up the peeple and the horns

THE FIRST Two, of course, are very easy.

The sea captain (1) goes with Cape Horn
(2); and the musician (2) with the French
horn (3).

That leaves the Average American (3)
matched up with the Horn of Plenty (1).

As such an American, you’d like that to
be true, wouldn’t you?

II can be—and will 'be—for millions of
Americans who, today, are putting money
regularly into U. S. Savings Bonds.

In ten years, as the Bonds mature, these
millions will find that they have truly
created a Horn of Plenty for themselves!

(It may mean money to you!)

For they’ll get back $4.00 for every $3.00
they’re putting in today!

There are now two easy, automatic ways
to buy U. S. Savings Bonds regularly.

The Payroll Savings Plan for men and
women on payrolls; the Bond-A-Month
Plan for those not on payrolls but who

have a bank checking account.

If you’re not on one of these plans, get
started today. Your employer or- banker will
give you all the details.

Let U. 5. Savings Bonds fill up your per-
sonal Horn of Plenty . . . for the years to
come!

Automatic saving is sure saving . . .
' U. S. Savings Bonds

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY

RUTH EHLERS

ANNE LIVINGSTON

FRANK STAPLES

GRACE WALKER

l

; FEBRUARY 1948

February, March

Wichita Falls, Texas
February 2-6

Texarkana, Texas
February 9-13
Austin, Texas

F ebruary' 16-20

San Antonio, Texas
February 23-27
Temple, Texas
March 1—5

Houston, Texas
March 15-19

Portland, Oregon
March 29-31
Evansville, Indiana
February 9-13
Arlington, Virginia
February 24*27
Maryland

March 1—5

York, Pennsylvania
March 8-10

. Pennsylvania State College

March 11-13

Richmond, Virginia
March 15-19

Pennsylvania State College
March 22—31

Ft. Pierce, Flo-rida
February 2-6

Gainesville, Florida
February 9—13

Miami, Florida
February 16-27

Pensacola, Florida
March .4-6

Chipley, Florida
March 8-10 ,
Tallahassee, Florida
March 11-13

Live Oak, Florida
March 15—17
Jacksonville, Florida
March 18-20
“Gainesville, Florida
March 22-24
Orlando, Florida
March 25—27
Lakeland, Florida
March 29—31

Jacksonville, Florida
February 2-13

West Palm Beach, Florida
February 16—27

Battle Creek, Michigan
January l9—February 13

Newburgh, New York
February 23-March 5

Blackstone, Virginia
March 8—12
Rustburg, Virginia
March 15—19

Gloucester, Virginia
March 22—26

Don Greer, YMCA, 803 City National Building
Mrs. Wayne Windle, 1122 Main Street
B. S. Sheflield, Director of Recreation

Miss Lou Hamilton, Superintendent of Recreation a

W. E. Routh, Superintendent of .Parks and Recreation
A. R. Moser, Superintendent of Recreation

Dorothea Lensch, Director of Recreation

S. J. Medlicott, General Secretary, YMCA, Fifth at
Vine Street

Miss Ruth Phillips, Director, Arlington Recreation
Center, 3700 Lee Highway

Miss Ethel Sammis, State Department of Education,
Baltimore, Maryland .

Mary Howard, Superintendent of Recreation .
Fred Coombs, State College, Pennsylvania

Harold K. Jack, State Department of Education, Di—
vision of Health and Physical Education

W. R. Gordon, in charge of Rural Sociology Exten—
sion, State College

Mrs. Jeanne Macaro, Director, St. Lucie County Rec-
reation Board

Dwight Hunter, County Director of Physical Educa—
tion and Recreation

Peter Roberts, Superintendent of Recreation

Dean B. C. Riley, University of Florida, Gainesville

N. L. Mallison, Superintendent of Recreation

Ben York, Superintendent of Recreation

John Wood, Director, Ham'blin Community Center,
242 Ham'vblin Avenue

Glenn Hines, Community Workers Association, 191
Water Street

Lorenzo C. White, Hampton Institute, Hampton, Vir—
ginia '

547

basketbaH

backstdps
to fit YOUR need

Whatever your individual basketball
backstop installation problem, Porter
has the answer. You see, Porter has been
oliicial purveyor of basketball backstop
equipment to the nation’s schools, uni:
versities and clubs for years. That’s wh
so many coaches, school superinten -
ents and others who buy and specify
backstops will readil say, "Yes, Porter
is headquarters for basZetball backstops.”
And Porter’s engineering service is
y0urs for the asking . . . to recommend,
without charge or obligation, the efii-
cient, economical way to install basket-
ball backstops in your gymnasium or
stadium . . . But don’t wait until the last
moment—until you are ready to use the
COurtI Plan ahead—allow sufficient time
for shipping and installation. Write—-
now—describing your problem.

 

 

 

FAN-SHAPED BANKS—Porter can ship

immediately famous Porter all-Steel fan-
shaped basketball banks.

 

   
   

  
   
   

   

Medal 2223 sulazu ls
traced to stun Ila:

Model 1215 halcnny la-
stallatloo will! oxteosln

Modal 212-2 wall-brand
Inn at Sllllllll deslgn

lIlIIdIIl 213-le ls suspend“
and mm to lalcony

 

A neat, rigid Porter installation, meeting a condition
that calls for extended wall bracing. Porter back-

“I
stops not only perform well, but look well.   Q  B

THE I. E. ' CORPORATION
OTTAWA. ILLINOIS l

MANUFAUURERS 0F PlAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

   

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* guifJg'TNuiE
Reg. U. 5. POI. OH.

 

548 RECREATION

   

Jeanne H. Barnes

1'

 — . I

 
g

 

HEN JEANNE BARNES entered a room, it was
as though a bright light had suddenly been
turned on. People felt happier; there was a con-
tagion in her gaiety and radiance which was ines-
capable; everyone caught it. Jeanne always knew

that she wanted to be a recreation worker. “She.

has thought through her problem,” wrote an offi-
cial of Syracuse University, “and knows just why
she wants to engage specifically in this work in
preference to other professions . . . Her heart is in
playground and recreation work.”

The extracurricular college activities, in which
she was outstanding, were part of her prepara-
tion for her chosen work. Then came additional
training at the National Recreation School, from
which she was graduated in 1930. ,

Jeanne’s first position was that of recreation
. director at .Morgantown, West Virginia, where
- she worked until 1934 when the National Recrea-
. tion Association asked her to become a member of
its staff. As field secretary of Play in Institutions
- she traveled all over the country, visiting institu—
' tions for dependent, delinquent and handicapped
’ children, to advise on recreation programs and
: train staff members. As a result of her work,
thousands of children in institutions enjoyed hap—
pier, more normal lives and workers in organiza-
tions which give training through institutes gained
a new conception of the importance of play for
the children in their care.

War service claimed Jeanne’s devotion from
1942 to 194.4 when she served with the American
Red Cross as assistant to the Director, Military

r FEBRUARY 1948

and Naval \Velfare Service, and as consultant on
recreation in hospitals.

Returning to her home in Philadelphia, she
became area field worker of the Philadelphia
Health and \Velfare Council. Here one of her
chief concerns was for the recreational needs of
the aged. Again in a neglected field of service she
organized clubs and conducted recreation pro-
grams for older people.

As late as October 1947, Jeanne participated in
the National Recreation Congress, acting as sum—
marizer of the discussions on hospital recreation.
Her death occurred on December 31.

The radiant light which was Jeanne Barnes will
shine on.

Now Available!

A Guide for Planning Facilities
for Athletics. Recreation. Phys-
ical and Health Education

A composite guide of 125 pages developed by 65
authorities in a National Facilities Conference Spon-
sored by fourteen national agencies and associations.

For school superintendents. their boards. park and
recreation leaders, health and physical education
administrators and supervisors, architects, engineers.
and other civic and professional leaders interested
in functional planning of modern facilities.

Price $1.50 postpaid
Order from

American Association for HealthI

Physical Education. and Recreation
l20l Ibth s+., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

O!

The Athletic Institute
209 South State Street, Chicago 4. Illinois '

STOP. PEEKEBS!

INCREASE PAID ADMISSIONS

Fence Screening at_ Only

Be Per Sq. Foot

U. 8. (NWT SURPLUS CANVAS
HIGH QUALITY o GROMETTED ALL SIDES

as? .1232. 5 fat. x30 {23; 514-9353;,“
ATLANTIC ° STATES ° SALES ' 00.

71 Garden St.. Poughkeepsie. N. Y.

 

 

549

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of l
l Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Parents’ llIagazine, November 1947

Know Your Child Through His Play, Evelyn D.
Adlerblum
How Much Extra-Curricular? Carmen Stone Allen

Journal of Sociology and Social Research, September-
October 1947 _' .
Teen Centers and the Adult Community, Louise D.
Yuill "

Youth United for a Better Home Town, Youth Division,
National Social Work Assembly, 134 East 56th Street,
New York 22, N. Y. Price, twenty cents.

Recreation Facilities: Standards, Deficiencies, Recommen-
dations, City Plan Commission, Kansas City, Missouri.
June 1947

Beach and Pool, October 1947

Organizing and Producing an Aquatic Pageant, Lil-
lian A. C. Burke

Off-Season Protection of Pools

A Review of Swimming Pool Regulations

Bulletin, National Association of Secondary3School Prin-
cipals, October 1947
Elementary and Secondary Pupil Protection Against
Injuries, P. F. Neverman
State Law Creates Mutual Accident Insurance Plans,
Thomas H. Pigott

Parks and Recreation, October 1947
Planning the Parks of Tomorrow, Ralph D. Cornell
The Design of Park Shelters, Cabins and Museums,
H. W. Groth
India Establishing National Parks
The Maintenance Mart

Think, October 1947
The Story of Weaving, Mary Evans

Bulletin, Association of College Unions, October 1947
Union Prices and the Price Trend Last Year
Costs and the Cost Trend Last Year

Journal of Health and Physical Education, October 1947
The Relationship of Physical Education to Health
Education and Recreation, Gertrude E. Moulton
Play in Education, Victor E. Leonard
The Parent-Child Camp, Nathan Doscher

A Playground Project for Small Children, Norma
B. Wilson

Camping Magazine, November 1947
'Orlfgon’s Self-rating Plan for Camps, Margaret Mili-
en
Pro-School Camping. Clara Fox
Camping Comes of Age, Howard Y. McClusky

  
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
   
    

  

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
0

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes

Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes
Diamond Stakes and Official
Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods

 

One Man Folds It. One Minute Does It.

The 1943 Nissan All—One Trampoline (Reg. U. 5. Pat. T- ' -' ' D's‘l'r'bu‘l'ors

Off.) wheels away to iiffy storage. Write for Free Litera—
ture and Prices on All Trampoline Models.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE co. a... m WW
h

71V! FINIST I” 7w: FIILD I

200 A Avenue NW cad" Rapids’ Iowa manuucrunmo COMPANY - st LO :5 a Mo

 

 

 

RECREATION

U1
in
O

 

An Aid in Planning

A G wide for Planning Facilities for Athletics, Rec-
reation, Physical and Health Education. The
Athletic Institute, Incorporated, Chicago, Illi-
nois. $1.50.

HIS MATERIAL PRESENTS the results of a work-
shop sponsored by fourteen national agencies
and attended by authorities from education, recrea-
tion, city planning and related fields. The Guide
is designed primarily as an aid to school, park,
recreation and city planning officials as well as to
civic leaders interested) in the ideveIOpment of
modern facilities for athletics, recreation, physical
and health education.
It carries a number of reports by workshop
committees relating to community planning, out-

_door and indoor facilities, swimming pools and

general building features. Many of the proposals
presented involve the joint acquisition and devel-
opment, on a neighborhood and community basis,
of properties to serve as combined school sites and
recreation areas. Instead of the terminology
widely adopted by recreation and planning author-
ities in the classilication of recreation areas, a new
set of titles for park-school properties is proposed.

Kingdom of Adventure: Everest

James Ramsey Ullman. William Sloane Associ-
ates, New York. $4.75.
THE STORY T0 date of the attempts, to climb
twenty-nine thousand and more feet above the
sea to the summit of the highest mountain known
10 man.

“In the early afternoon of June 8, 1924, two
men crept slowly and painfully upward along a
desolate Skyline ridge. Below and on three sides
of them were the blue depths of space. Ahead, a
scant eight hundred feet above and perhaps a quar-
ter of a mile away, the ridge ended in a steep,

FEBRUARY 1948
|

I.

N ew Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

,bleak pyramid of rock and snow. This pyramid

was the summit of Everest, the highest mountain
on earth.

“What those two men thought and felt—what
obstacles they encountered and how they sought to
overcome them—no one knows. This much, how-
ever, we do know; they were there. Two thousand
feet below them on the mountainside one of their
companions stood staring upward, watching. For
five minutes——ten—he followed their progress;
two tiny but clear-etched motes against the empty
sky. Then presently the Sky was no longer empty,
but tilled with moving mist, and he could see them
only faintly through the gray pall. And soon the
mist was so thick that they were blotted entirely
from sight.

“That was the last ever seen of George Leigh-

 

Such climbing is not for amateurs; requires
staunch courage and expert ice technique.

551

Mallory, greatest of Everest climbers, and his
young companion, Andrew Irvine.” -

Thus opens this book of drama and mystery, a
sure-fire prescription for those who enjoy good
reading as a part of their leisure time recreation.
Adventuring in an arm chair has rarely been more
exciting than that offered by Mr. Ullman in this
authentic chronicle of man’s assault upon the
highest summit in the world.

The author, an experienced mountaineer him—
self, here presents selections from the rich and
varied literature written by the men who have
tried to make the peak and who have recorded
their experiences, triumphs and despairs. He
says: “One of my most memorable boyhood
experiences was my first introduction to the Ever-
est adventure . . . And one of my most genuine
adult sorrows is that that adventure is to this day,
among Americans at least, so little known. . . .”
As a result he has gathered together these true
tales of danger, courage and beauty into a saga
which provides reading of maximum intensity. It
is recommended for effective transportation from
the everyday cares and worries to the lofty swirl-

ing pinnacles of the Himalayas in the mysterious
,land that held the secrets of Shangri-La, Tibet.

 

 

OHicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

RoBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIREY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT Woons BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HoWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. COREETT, Portland, Ore.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

RoBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NoRMAN HARRoWER, Fitchburg, Mass. '
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JoHN D. JAMEsoN, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

0110 T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLI KEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.

MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

I. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

552

 

     

mm :0 mm

A career in life insurance
selling can be both profitable
and satisfying . . . .with your
income limited only by your
own efforts. Many of our rep-
resentatives earn $4,000 to
$9,000 a year, and more! We
invite you to send for our
scientific Aptitude Test, which
measures your qualifications
for this interesting work.

After taking the test, you’ll
hear from our manager in or
near your community. If you
qualify, he’ll explain our
3-year On-the-job training
course, with a special com-
pensation plan to help you
become established. After
that, the Mutual Lifetime
Plan offers liberal commis-
sions, and substantial retire-
ment income at 65. Mail the
coupon today!

'I'HE MUTUAL lIFE

INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK

34 Nassau Street Alexander E. Patterson
New York 5, N. Y. President

FIRST IN AMERICA

PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST

NAM

ADDRESS

CITY

 

Don't buy until you see our tree, illustrated catalog. Write Today!

WW

sports equipment co.

1 FOND Du LAC. WISCONSIN I,
AIMOSI A MAN (tNHISV or nut-Ht.

RECREATION

o=o=o=o===o=o=o=o=o=om=o=o==lo=iltp
9 °'
It s a Pleasure H
Feeling ambitious these days? In the mood to putter around and “create”? If 0
you’ve exhausted all inspiration or just don’t know how to get started and on what, 9
you’ll be glad to know that the National Recreation Association has a store of
material available. Here are just a few of the Association’s many arts and crafts
publications : '
Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .$l.50 E
(Information about the types of arts and crafts projects suited to different age levels is supple-
mented by illustrated directions for making a number of articles in the various classifications.) 0
Arts and Crafts Material (MP 150) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .15
(Suggests many types of mediums used in craft work, giving descriptions and directions for use.)
Clay Modeling (MP 249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
(Type of clay needed, equipment, procedure, projects. Also bibliography.) 0
Craft Projects That Can Be Made With Inexpensive and Discarded Materials. . . . .20 [1
(MP 256) (Suggests projects and lists materials and references for each craft.) 9
Cylinder Weaving (MP 260) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
(Complete directions for this useful craft. Weaving accomplished by using a series of small
diameter cylinders as a weaving frame.) :
Easter Crafts and Games (MP 299) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
(Suggestions for decorating Easter eggs, making centerpieces, party favors, invitations, greeting 0,
cards, and gifts. Paper crafts and printing.) n
Finger Puppets (MP 322) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35 0
(Construction of several types, stage and bibliography.)
Fun-to-Make Favors (MP 254) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
(Directions for making novel favors, place cards, and table decorations.)
Get In There and Paint, by Joseph Alger and What About Water Colors?
by Chester G. Marsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 0
(There’s joy for the amateur in“ painting with oils or water colors!) E
Gifts and Gadgets Made of Paper (MP 297) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
(Includes children’s toys, closet accessories, Christmas tree decorations, and other useful items.)
Homemade Play Apparatus (MP 277) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
(Plans for building a sand box, three board see-saw, three swing set, horizontal ladder, horizontal
bar, balance beam, volleyball post, basketball goal, jump standard, baseball backstop.)
Introducing the Snow Artist (MP 294) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05 E
(Snow and ice sculpture.) o
Katchina Dolls and the Indian Give Away . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
(Materials, tools, and directions for making the dolls of the Hopi Indians. Excellent camp or
playground material.)
Let’sMakeThings(MP274)..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .. .35
(A progressive party at which everyone has a chance to make amusing and interesting objects out v o
of odds and ends.) u
Make Your Own Games (MP 332) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .10 o
(How to make indoor and outdoor games out of cardboard and wood. Excellent for family fun.
Illustrated.)
Masks—Fun to Make and Wear (MP 286) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
(Directions for making a variety of masks from paper plates, Hat paper, sacks, papier macho,
animal heads, fan masks, masks with wire eyes, and life masks. Bibliography.)
New Gadgets from an Old Felt Hat (“Make and Mend” Column, April 1943 E
RECREATION magazine) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25 0
(Making articles from scrap felt.)
Plastics in the Craft Program (MB 1800) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
(A fine challenge for one’s imagination!)
Simple Crafts (MP 328) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .05
- (Crafts for children; includes directions for a paper barometer, pop-up cards, calendar, booklet, o
bookmark, and paper knife.) n

u
[l
0
:1
ii
0
n
E
0
n
ii
0
n
l]
0
:1
ii
0
n
[i
O
:1
ii
0
:1
ii
i
O

=0=0=0=0=0=10=0=10=0=0=0=0=6

“ AT we need is a working creed in the
heart of every American: I am an Ameri-
can, an exemplifier and a carrier of democracy.
It is my business to be strong and ready to make
full use of my country, of my leisure, and of
myself; to be strong, to be fully competent and
equipped in mind and body; to be ready for any-
thing; to say it not with the clenched nsts or the
distended eyes of the fanatic, but with the laughter
and high spirits of a free man.”—-Roy H elton.

 

