NOVEMBER, 1943
- PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Contents

 

November 1948

Knowledge of What the Individual Wants
(Editorial), by Howard Braucher. . . 337

Recreation Comments . . . Letters to
and from the Editorial Department. . 339

Recreation and Mental Health,

by Dr. William C. Menninger . . . . . . . 340
No One Under Sixty Need Apply,

by Arline Britton Boucher and

John Leo Tehan . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . 347

Two Ladies Form a Club, by Bill Gold. . 350
The 1948 Recreation Congress . . . . . . . 358
Basketball Shooting Competition . . . . . . 364
Playing Out Problems in Socio-Drama. . 367
Miniature Movies for Moppets . . . . . . . . 369
Publications and Your Recreation Job. . 371
Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Permanent Ice-Skating Rinks,

by Douglas G. Miller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
J. B. Williams Retires . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Are You Cooperating? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

Home Education, by Annie L. Gaetz. . . 379
Emmett R. Gauhn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Thanksgiving

A Prayer for Thanksgiving,

by Joseph Auslander . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 338
Gaye Parties for Ye Moderne Pilgrims. . 366

Christmas

Tips on Christmas Planning . . . . . . . . . . 351

Repeat Performance, by Pat Perkinson. 352

Why Not Block Print Your Christmas
Cards ?, by Toni Ford . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 370

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . 382

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383

Recreation Institutes . . . .Inside Back Cover

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Dennison Manufac-
turing Company, Framingham, Massachusetts, for drawing,
page 366; Art Keil, West Palm Beach, Florida, for photo-

graph, page 370. Congress photographs by Harold Cowan of
the Omaha World-Herald, Nebraska, pages 360-361.

ON THE COVER: Many years have not dimmed skill nor pride
of accomplishment in this busy old Missourian. (See—No One

Under Sixty Need Apply, page 347.) Photograph by courtesy,
Vlassic—Missouri Resources Division, Jefferson City.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.; is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948, by the National Recreation Association, incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO. NUMBER EIGHT

PRICE 3 5 CENTS

 

Recreation
November 1948

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

7620;416qu 0%

(What #16

gndividual Wan £5

E RECREATION MOVEMENT is founded on the
Tfecognition Of the dignity and worth Of the
individual human being; on the necessity Of under-
standing clearly his nature, what he thinks he
wants, what he is likely to want when he has fuller
knowledge of possibilities.

This recognition of the dignity and worth Of the
individual human being makes it impossible for
recreation workers to plan to violate the individual’s
personality by trying tO fix facilities and leadership so that the person is not
free to be the person he wants tO be, to do the things he wants to do in time
that is supposed to be free.

Of course there must always be the appeal from “Philip drunk tO Philip
sober.” And it is no violation Of the individual personality to give each man a
chance to be exposed to all forms Of activity so that each man can really know
Of a surety what he wants to do.

The real fundamental in recreation leadership and guidance is to do in behalf
Of others only what one would like tO have done to oneself.

The recreation leader needs to know much about the motives Of men, the
behavior Of men under various circumstances, the various reasons why men do
what they do. What are these individuals really hungering and thirsting for?
What looks tO be fOOd but is only husks? What looks to be water but is only
a mirage that will never satisfy?

It is one thing to think one knows the heart’s desire Of man from a book.
It is another to know from practice, from working side by side and being with
many men of many kinds.

The more recreation leaders themselves have really lived in factories, in
mines, upon farms, in stores, the better qualified they are tO understand the life
needs of others, what is going on in the minds Of others, what makes others tick.

Under modern conditions Of specialization ways and means must be devised
Of working out for recreation leaders substitutes for wide and deep experience
in living, but it must be recognized that substitutes are substitutes and there
must be constant effort to get as much as possible Of real experience in living.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

337

338

A Prayer for Thanksgiving"

by Joseph Auslander

E thank Thee for the joy of common things:
The laughter of a child, the vagrant grace
Of water, the great wind that beats its wings,

The sudden light that shines upon a face.

We thank Thee for the heavens that declare
Thy love, and the abundant earth no less;
We thank Thee for the bread we eat and share

From hearts that overflow with thankfulness.

We thank Thee that when we grow puffed with pride
And blurt out wild and foolish blasphemies,

The gentler angels of our nature chide,
And Thy forgiveness brings us to our knees.

Against the voices counseling despair
We thank Thee for the clarions of youth,
For humbleness that turns to Thee in prayer,
For courage that is not afraid of truth.

0 Lord, we thank Thee (when no man is sleeping,
But watches, nor dares he draw quiet breath)
That, kenneled and confided to our keeping,

We guard the dreadful atom brood of death.

We thank Thee that man’s spirit need not falter,
That Faith still lights the good and gallant fight,
That still the torches on the anxious altar
Of Freedom, though they flicker, burn as bright.

For strength for this day’s huge and harsh demanding
We thank Thee, Lord; for patience yet to find

A brave new hope, a brave new understanding
In the vast commonwealth of heart and mind.

Lord, from the blind abyss of circumstance

Whither, by war’s grim folly, we were hurled,
We thank Thee for a final golden chance

To rise again and build a nobler world.

*Reprinted by permission of the author and of the New York Times.

RECREATION

RECREATION

Ol/l/Ll/l/LEI/Lié

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

TO RECREATION:
“I have just received the September issue of

RECREATION, and I want to tell you how timely the
article ‘We Want a Club !’ is for me. Your article
says in just a few words most of what we have

tried to put across in our training program.”
NANCE FOULES, Teen-Age Pro-

gram Director, Young l/Vomen’s
Christian Association, Galveston,
Texas.

“The quality of the content, indeed, the entire
setup Of the magazine is such that all of us active
in the field of recreation can refer to it with pride
and assurance. The new, improved type of cover
seems to herald a new era in its significant contri—
bution to our profession.”

GERALD P. BURNS, Executive
Director, American Camping
Association, Chicago, Illinois.

“Congratulations on new look of the magazine
and the general wider use of charts, diagrams, and
photographs. It is certainly an improvement, with
the addition of having content, inspiration and
practical material which can be used.”

GEORGE M. GLOSS, Professor
of Graduate Work, Department
of Physical Education, Health
and Recreation, University of
Alaryland, College Park.

“Two of the articles, written by Messrs. Nagy
and Everett, particularly struck me as line illustra-
tions Of leadership along much needed grounds.”

WILLIAM M. WATTENBERG, Asso-
ciate Professor of Education and
Educational Psychology, Wayne
University, Michigan.

NOVEMBER 1948

TO OUR READERS:

Many, many thanks for all constructive sugges-
tions as to how to make RECREATION ever more
useful to recreation workers; thanks, too, to all
those congress delegates who showed such a lively
interest in the magazine. ’

At present, we wish once more to call your at-
tention to the fact that we are offering this page
in RECREATION for “letter-box” discussion of any
specific article, or articles, appearing in the maga-
zine with which readers may diner or to which
they would like to add their own thinking or expe-
rience on the given subject.

To all those who consider the pooling of ideas
and experience valuable enough to warrant the
time and expense of attending a National Recrea-
tion Congress for that purpose, we point out that
RECREATION is a supplementary, year-round vehicle
of such exchange, an opportunity not only to End
out what other folks are doing and to receive the
stimulus of fresh thinking, but an opportunity to
make your own contribution to the progress of
the recreation movement nationally and interna-
tionally, as well as locally.

Because the Publications Meeting in Omaha had
time merely to scratch the surface on the subject of
the use of publications—both those put out by a
recreation department itself, and those received
from other sources—as an important part of doing
a good over-all recreation job, we should like to
call your attention to the article Publications and
Your Recreation Job on page 37I of this issue of
RECREATION. This carries further suggestions as
to how-to-use and how-to-plan such publications.
(For summary of the Publications Meeting, see
the new Congress Proceedings.)

DOROTHY DONALDSON
Ilianaging Editor, RECREATION

339

RECREATION

AND MENTAL HEALTH"

W herein a psychiatrist issues a

challenge to recreatiOn workers.

William C. Menninger, M.D.

Just outside of Topeka,
Kansas, can be found one of
the world’s great psychiatric
centers -— the Menninger
C linic— which is operated
by one of medicine’s best-
known brother teams, Dr.
Karl and Dr. William M en—
ninger. Activities of this in-
stitution go directly into the
community and furnish spe-
cific services to community groups. “Dr. Will,” of
the team, has stimulated the American Psychiatric
Association, of which he is current president, to
establish a committee on leisure time activity (see
August RECREATION). He held the position of
Chief of Army Neuropsychiatric Services during
the recent war. His beliefs regarding the mental
health aspects of recreation are here presented to
recreation workers.

 

Dr. W. C. Menninger

T IS WITH a sense of special responsibility that

I discuss with you——a group of professional
workers in the field of recreation—the relation—
ships between recreation and mental health. All
too infrequently does the recreation worker have
an Opportunity to learn of the psychiatric implica—
tions of his work. Too rarely does the psychia—
trist have an opportunity to enlist the c00perative
interest of the professional recreational workers as
represented by the National Recreation Associa-
tion throughout the country.

 

*Presented at the National Recreation Congress, Omaha, Ne-
braska, September 28, 1948.

340

It has been the privilege of many of us practic-
ing medicine in psychiatry to have some very re-
warding experiences in the use of recreation as an
adjunctive method of treatment. Along with direct
psychological help, hydrotherapy, shock and insu-
lin therapy, many of us have, for years, used vari-
ous forms of education, recreation and occupation
in the treatment of our patients. Within the Amer—
ican Psychiatric Association—a national organiza-
tion of approximately 4500 psychiatrists—“we have
a standing committee on leisure time activities.
It has planned its work for the coming year on the
assumption that professional recreation experience
can contribute to psychiatric practice, and psychia—
trists can add to the knowledge of professional
recreation workers. The intention of this commit-
tee is not only to bring the contribution from rec—
reation workers to the membership of the Ameri-
can Psychiatric Association, but also_to present
and represent psychiatry to various lay groups
concerned with recreation.

Recreation has not only played an important
part in the treatment program of many mental ill-
nesses but it has been a considerable factor in
enabling former patients to remain’well. There—
fore, psychiatrists believe that recreative activity
can also be a valuable preventive of mental and
emotional ill health.

Mental and emotional ill health too often is not
understood by the non-medical person. Sickness
of the mind is thought of only as the extreme
forms, in terms of “going crazy,” “losing one’s'
mind” or “being insane.” The psychiatric patient
and his relatives too often fear and actually find
that they are stigmatized by the patient’s illness,
if it is discovered. The public is just beginning to
learn that there are different kinds and degrees

RECREATION

of mental ill health just as there are of physical
ill health. To be ill psychologically is not a matter
of sin or shame; it is not a sentence to isolation
or to indefinite invalidism. But mental illness is
a robber of energy and happiness which may beset
anyone. No one is completely immune to its at-
tack. However, there are ways whereby one can
reduce the risk of being waylaid by it. Moreover,
one should realize that only in an occasional in-
stance does mental ill health bring about perma-
nent incapacity.

The fact remains that the number of seriously
ill psychiatric patients in hospitals is so large as
to overwhelm current facilities and staff. Even
though our mental hospitals are greatly under-
staffed, still about fifty percent of our psychiatrists
work in these institutions. '

The Extent of Personality Disorders

To the uninformed the realization of the extent
of personality disorders, including mental illness,
comes as a shock. There are no complete or totally
accurate figures of incidence and yet some indices
leave no doubt as to the extensiveness of the prob-
lem. They are the more impressive because they
do represent only a partial count of the total num—
ber. The knowledge of even these figures, however,
emphasizes the importance of our ability to recog—

nize emotional maladjustment in order that we '

might do the job of prevention more effectively.

According to figures released recently, there
were 88,000 more beds in nervous and mental hos—
pitals in 1947 than there were in all of the general
hospitals in America. So overcrowded is bed ca-
pacity that the average census of mental hospitals
was nearly 100,000 more than the average census
of general hospitals. Last year the 680,000 beds in
mental hospitals had an average occupancy of
650,000 persons. Between fifty percent and sixty
percent of all the patients in our veterans’ hospitals
have some type of sickness of their personalities.

There are no figures to show the number of peo-
ple who consult psychiatrists. Statistics from the
army experience indicate that for every one man
who had to be hospitalized for psychosis, ten others
were hospitalized for the milder type of disorders
called neuroses. The army was composed of a se—
lected group of men and experience in it does not
necessarily indicate the incidence of psychoses in
civilian life, though statistics indicate they Were
more frequent in military service. Certainly many
individuals with such illnesses were combed out
in the draft selection. On the other hand, the
army figures are suggestive of the extremely large
number of individuals who required help for their

NOVEMBER 1948

neurotic disorders. These represented nearly
eighty percent of the hospital admissions for psy-
chiatric disability in the army. There is no way of
estimating the corresponding percentage of inci—
dence of neurosis in civilian life, but we have suffi-
cient experience to know that it is very high.

Another index of personality disorders, though
largely excluding the severe mental illness, is sug-
gested from the findings of the draft examination
during this last war. Most of the men rejected
were not mentally ill. They were, however, judged
as not being sufficiently adjusted emotionally to
be good risks in the uncertain environment of the
military service. The total number of rejections
for this cause amounted to nearly two million,
representing one out of every eight men who came
to the induction center.

The seriousness of the problem within the mili-
tary service is indicated by the fact that 718,000
men had to be discharged because of some type of
personality problem. This was the largest single
cause of the loss of manpower during the war.
More men were discharged because of personality
problems than for all other types of medical ill-
nesses or disorders put together.

In civilian life every physician, both knowingly
and unknowingly, treats patients who are emo-
tionally ill. It is estimated that fifty percent of all
patients who consult all physicians, general prac—
titioners and specialists, become ill from'the stress
and strain of life on their personalities rather than
from the invasion of bacteria, injury or cancer.
Their pain or discomfort is not related to any
physical change in their organs but rather to mis—
managed emotions. These emotions reflect them-
selves in hearts and stomachs, intestines and oints,
so that patients complain about the discomfort or
misfunction of these organs. The real cause of the
symptoms, however, is an emotional conflict.

Everyday Maladjustment

All of the above figures pale into relative insig-
nificance in comparison to the .total amount of
mental illness, either in terms of cost or of time
lost. Any estimate of the total picture would have
to include the extent of emotional upsets which
incapacitate people temporarily. Such upsets are
really a mild form of illness even though they are
often not so regarded. The transient emotional
disturbances which do not necessarily keep a per-
son from his work, do reduce efficiency and satis-
faction.

Emotional maladjustment costs energy and
therefore money. One pays in some way or other
for disappointment, frustration, insecurity, hostil-

341

ity. Many varied symptoms result, in the form of
depression, anxiety, fear, suspicion. It is acted
out and evidenced in our life in marital problems,
misbehavior, prejudice, discrimination and anti-
social acts. Even mild maladjustment may become
chronic or acutely severe if it is not corrected;
and therefore prevention and early relief of the
troublesome confiict are important. From the
standpoint of national health, this must 'be a matter
of special concern for all of us.

Like many physical sicknesses, many personality
disturbances can be prevented. Some basic prin-
ciples about mental hygiene and ways to maintain
mental health are now set down in language for
laymen. We in psychiatry are making numerous
efforts to publicize the “why’s” and “how’s” of
mental hygiene. Psychiatrists are now able to
point the way towards the improvement of per-
sonal relationships in the family, in the community
and at work. They also realize the necessity for
reducing the psychological stresses and providing
psychological supports for the individual and for
the social unit.

The so-called social problems are, in reality,
reactions of personalities to stress. Sometimes the
environment exerts too much pressure on some or
all of the individuals within it. Other times the
personality is at war within itself so that the exter-
nal situation acts either to reduce or increase the
strain on the individual. The world war produced
sufficient stress to cause an untold amount of men—
tal ill health. Not only the men and women in
military service but their loved ones, as well as
the displaced war workers, had to orient to the
disruption of their family lives. War speeded up
the changes taking place in the pattern of family
life in our culture. The unexpected mobility of so
many people took away their sense of security
and their former basis of making plans for the
future. It interrupted and delayed the adjustment
and establishment of new families in their home—
steads.

Among the many factors responsible for increas-
ing the extent of delinquency, one must reckon
with the changes that are taking place in our fam-
ily life and structure. The incidence of crime,
which is an expression of maladjustment, has
reached an all time high. The federal government
is spending nearly ten times as much money to
handle our social failures—the delinquents and
criminals—as the federal budget allows for the
improvement of mental health. The cost of oper-
ating the penitentiaries and reformatories is
“chicken feed” in comparison to the actual cost of
crime to the country—estimated to be between

342

eight and ten billion dollars a year.

One cannot state that divorce is a symptom of
mental ill health, but it certainly is an evidence of
unhappiness which in most instances is due to mal-
adjustment and creates maladjustment in others
than the couple involved. In 1947 there was one
divorce for every three marriages, and this ratio
increased in urban areas to one divorce for every

, two marriages.

Unmeasurable, but very real, is the distress re-
sulting from the acute shortage of housing which
requires more than a million families to live with
other families.

Other social situations affect mental health.
Discriminatory practices due to strong and wide-
spread prejudices are mental hazards for millions
of our people. Fortunately, our employment is
momentarily at a high level but we should not
forget the acute distress which existed a few years
ago because of forced unemployment. Currently
we are all very aware of the stresses produced by
our present national and international status of
uncertainty, unrest, suspicion and fear.

In presenting these facts, there is no intention
to cause unnecessary alarm or to imply that every
individual in the country needs the help of a psy-
chiatrist. Such would be nonsense. However, it
does seem to be extremely important to marshal
the evidence of the need to improve the state of
our national health in order that we might seek
out its significance and make constructive efforts
on the basis of our findings.

Society’s enormous loss of manpower because
of personality disorders—whether it is measured
in money, time, or effectiveness—is a problem of
health as well as of economy. There is an impera-
tive need for society—that is for individuals like
you and me—to initiate corrective measures of
every possible sort. As a pyschiatrist, I feel that
recreational workers can contribute to such a pro-
gram in very large measure.

Psychological Needs Met by Recreation

“Recreation” can be used to refer to an enor-
mous variety of human activity. What is the voca-
tion of one man becomes the avocation of another.

In this group the word recreation refers to the
things a person does for the fun of doing them,
usually with no specific utilitarian or economic
motive. Such activity has a renewing effect psy-
chologically. It is a re-creative experience. It
enables a person to go back to psychologically un-
rewarding routine or work where the motivation
is purely “to get the job done.”

Since life exacts a different toll from each of us,

RECREATION

different sorts of recreation appeal to us. Psychia-
these must differ in considerable degree for differ—
logical value of all types of activity for obviously
these must differ in considerable degree for differ—
ent individuals. However, there are at least three
common psychological needs that are effectively
met through participation in certain forms of rec-
reation. '

1. Competitive games provide an unusually sat-
isfactory social outlet for the instinctive aggressive
drive. Psychiatrists postulate the existence in the
personality of an aggressive instinct which con-
stantly seeks expression. Where its direct expres-
sion is denied, symptoms may develop. There are
perhaps specific values in varying degrees and
types of competitive activity. The most aggressive
outlet is seen in those sports in which there is
bodily contact, such as tennis, golf, badminton,
bowling; and probably least but none the less evi—
dent, in sports of sedentary intellectual competi—
tion such as chess, checkers, bridge, poker and so
on. All these types of recreation meet the psycho-
logical need of many individuals, whose jobs or
daily work prevent sufficient expression of aggres-
81011.

2. The psychological value of certain kinds of
recreation lies in the opportunity to create. In ad—
dition to the aggressive drive, the other important
psychological instinct is the erotic; constructive or
creative drive. As a consequence, they find great
satisfaction in producing something—a rug, a
chair, a piece of music, a poem, a cake.

3. Relaxation through entertainment also satis—
fies important psychological need, through cater-
ing to the passive desires of many of us, as well as
to provide an opportunity for vicarious participa—
tion. Many persons derive an enormous satisfac—
tion from listening to music, seeing a ball game or
a'movie, reading a mystery book, or studying art
masterpieces. '

Mentally healthy people participate in some
form of volitional activity to supplement their
required daily work. This is not merely because
they want something to do in their leisure time,
for many persons with little leisure make time for
play. Their satisfaction from these activities meets
deep seated psychological demands, quite beyond
the superficial rationalization of enjoyment. The
choice of activity is modified by their method of
living and experience. By comparison with two
generations ago, there is today a greater need for
recreative play. "People now have little opportunity
to express their aggressive needs, to pioneer, or to
explore. Jobs, even though satisfying in. most
respects, provide a limited opportunity for spon-

NOVEMBER 1948

  
  

 
 

9 x .
 . ‘2. g.
. E2 " ‘ x.
- ., é 
a.  a

*A#c'2;““‘f:£*:- ' 3'“

  

has.“ , _ MK w... - -. . ‘
 “-3*ZT’":.3&n'i-?:'J' " u

 

Even games of sedentary intellectual competition,
such as checkers, provide outlet for aggressiveness.

taneous creativeness or a free choice of the type of
activity.

Some very concrete evidence of the relation be—
tween avocations and mental health was revealed
in a survey made at our clinic some years ago. A
group of well-adjusted individuals was surveyed
as to the type, number and duration of their hob-
bies. The findings were compared to those from
a similar survey of a group of psychiatric patients.
In the well-adjusted group, both the number and
the intensity of the pursuit of hobbies was far in
excess of those of the patients. This cannot be
interpreted to mean that, because the individual
has a hobby, it necessarily keeps him well. It does
mean, however, that a well-adjusted individual
learns how to play and does include play as an
important feature of his-life, much more frequently
than does the average maladjusted person.

Failure to Play

Too many people do not know how to play.
Others limit their recreation to being merely pas-
sive observers of the activity of others. There are
individuals who harbor the belief of our early fore-
fathers that to play is sinful. Others feel that play
is only for children, and believe that, “As I became
a man I put away childish things.” Still other

individuals regard play as simply a waste of time
as well as energy. By some, play is considered to
be a reward for good behavior and thus in many
of our backward penitentiaries, sports or recrea-
tion are regarded as an unwarranted indulgence of
the prisoners. There are still other individuals
who have had such severe and rugged lives as
children that they have never learned to play.
The psychiatrist is strongly in disagreement
with all of these attitudes. There is considerable

343

scientific evidence that the healthy personality is
one who not only plays, but who takes his play
seriously. Furthermore, there is also evidence that
the inability and unwillingness to play reveals an
insecure or disordered aspect of personality. i

Recreation as Therapy

To date the psychiatrist has not taken a major
interest in the leisure activity of healthy individuals
or programs of recreation in communities. His ob
has been, is, and will be concerned with the diag—
nosis and treatment of the anxious, the distraught,
the bewildered and the confused members of soci-
ety. To help these people he must know about
the anatomy and the physiology of the personality,
in addition to the physical condition of his patient.
He is deeply interested in how that patient gets
along in his family, with his friends, on his job.
He tries to discover the cause of the maladjust—
ment, either within the patient’s personality or in
the stresses of the environment. Therefore the
psychiatrist must learn a great deal about the way
he lives, loves and hates. Among many other
things, he wants to know if his patient plays, how
he plays and his motives for playing.

Then he must plan treatment to fit the individ-
ual needs of his patient. He uses recreation ex-
tensively in the hOSpital program of his patients.
As the result of this experience, psychiatrists have
accumulated considerable data on the utilization of
recreation as a supplementary treatment measure.
For at least twenty years, in our hOSpital in To—
peka, we have prescribed the. specific types of
recreational activities that we believe to be most
suitable to alleviate specific symptoms of patients.

The aim of the psychiatric prescription is to
direct troublesome feelings into a socially approved
outlet. In some personality disorders, the symp—
toms conSpicuously express hostile feelings. In-
tense feelings which the patient harbors, that were
probably directed originally toward some member
of the family, have become displaced and may be

expressed toward any person, or even any object
in the environment.

We have conducted many experiments in re-
direction of emotions. For instance, there was a
patient who was very hostile to his father even
though he maintained that he loved him. We drew
a face on a punching bag and suggested that the
image was that of his hated parent. Thereupon,
he tied into the punching bag to the extent of his
feelings. In another instance, practice on a driv—
ing range was enhanced by giving each golf ball
the name of some disliked person. This particular

patient had a long list of people he thoroughly

344

disliked and, as one watched, it was apparent that
varying amounts of energy were invested in each
drive, depending on the intensity of the feelings
towards the person whom the ball represented.

In the majority of instances this direct approach
is impossible, either because the hostility is too
,diffuse or because the patient feels too guilty to
express his hostility in more subtle, unrecognized
forms. He “blows off his steam” in a baseball or
a volleyball game or a tournament with an obvious
release of tension.

The second therapeutic use of recreation is to
provide an opportunity for creative experience.
This has seemed particularly valuable for the frus—
trated individuals who, in their personal relation-
ships, have been thwarted in achieving sufficient
satisfaction. Again and again a patient will become
intensely interested in the creation of some article
of craft work. It is quite discernible in some cases
that the symptoms diminish as the interest in-
creases. This can be observed in those who have
never had any previous experience in the medium
with which they choose to work—woodworking,
weaving, leather, clay, art work and so forth. Pride
in their finished product is very conspicuous. Some
patients have gained so much satisfaction from a
particular type of craft work that they have con-
tinued the activity upon their return home. In
many instances, this has led to the establishment
of a reasonably complete workshop.

Another psychological need in certain individ—
uals is to do things in a very particular way. The
arrangement of clothing in the closet, or empha—
sis on punctuality or cleanliness becomes very
important. The psychological explanation of such
behavior is that it prevents the .person from devel-
oping anxiety about an inner urge to do the oppo—
site. When the compulsive person cannot carry
out his activities, either because of internal dis—
turbances or external prohibitions, he becomes
maladusted. When these defenses do break down,
the therapeutic aim is to help him find ways of
alleviating anxiety through the re-establishment of
compulsive activity.

In a specific instance in which this type of recre-
ation was prescribed, the patient had always been,
prior to his illness, an extremely punctual, precise
and exact person. Some time after he had passed
the age of fifty, he experienced some rather severe
difficulties in his home and his life became quite
disorganized. Incidentally, this individual, as many
compulsive people do, had always taken a very
special interest in his finances, in keeping his ac-
counts, and prided himself on the size of his bank
account. In the therapeutic program arranged for

RECREATION

him in the hospital, attempts were made to interest
him in several types of activities, with the hope
that we would find something interesting to him.
In view of his orderliness, his interest in money,
his hoarding tendencies, he was encouraged to take\
up coin collecting. With very little help, this be-
came almost a full—time activity. He pored over
thousands of pennies, then nickels, then dimes,
hunting for certain dates and mint marks. While
in the hOSpital he began to contact coin dealers.
He spent hours making boards to mount his coins
and in polishing and arranging his selections. Pro—
gressively with his interest in this activity, he be-
came increasingly better adjusted socially. Within
two months he was able to leave the hospital. We
learned subsequently that he continued‘his avid in-
terest and activity in coin collecting. Lest this be
misunderstood, I should state that his coin collect-
ing did not cure him. It simply served as a very
expedient outlet for his compulsive makeup. With
psychological guidance, he gained some insight
into the nature of his illness and the reasons for
the particular appeal of this activity.

One other prescribed recreational activity has
proved, again and again, its important therapeutic
value. This is the socialization provided by group
activities—parties, ball games, square dances, dra-
matic productions, and so on. All of us have the
desire to belong—to the family, club, gang or to
some other preferred group. One of the conspicu-
ous symptoms of some types of mental maladjust-
ment is the feeling of lonesomeness, the inability
to identify with and belong to a social unit. The

average psychiatric patient, during his illness, is‘

conSpicuously incapable of feeling comfortable with
other people. An important phase in the process
of getting well is to be able again to become soci-
able, and to participate pleasurably in an activity

 

Psychological value of certain types of recreation lies
in the opportunity to do something constructive.

NOVEMBER 1948

with someone else or with many other people.
Therefore, the plan in every good psychiatric in—
stitution is to provide opportunities for this
socialization.

Obviously, they must be graded according to
the patient’s capacity and specific needs. Routinely
in our hOSpital, a plan is followed whereby the
patient is first given the opportunity to become
friendly with one of the staff—a nurse, recreational
or occupational therapist—in addition to his physi—
cian. As the patient becomes able to adjust him-
self to this, his contact is expanded to include
initially one other patient and then a small group
of them. Graduation takes place as fast as possible
to the passive role of a spectator in a larger group
of people and eventually to the active role of a par-
ticipating member of a team. Recreational oppor-
tunities are by all odds the most practical vehicle
to accomplish this aim.

Applications

On the basis of his eXperience with its use as
a psychiatric treatment method, as well as through
his conviction as to its importance in the mainte-
nance of mental health, the psychiatrist can make
certain recommendations about recreation. _

T0 the Individual: Good mental health is directly
related to the capacity and willingness of an indi—
vidual to play. Regardless of his objections, resis—
tances, or past practice, any individual will make
a wise investment for himself if he does plan time
for his play and take it seriously.

T0 the Recreation Worker: The psychiatrist
strongly recommends a working knowledge of the
structure and method of function of the person—
ality. This would provide a better understanding
of individual persons and their reactions, and more
important, of their psychological needs and handi—
caps which might be met most effectively by par-
ticular forms of recreation. In addition, he would
recommend a study of the scientific data regarding
leadership methods. He would recommend a gen-
eral knowledge of the social forces operating in
groups, which may greatly enhance or detract from
the effectiveness of any recreational program.

The psychiatrist would further recommend, to
the recreational worker, the importance of taking
aggressive steps to educate the public as to the
value of recreation in the maintenance of mental
health. In such a campaign he would wish to have
emphasized the fact that recreation, which is lit—
erally re-creating relaxation from regular activity,
is a morale builder. It is not a luxury, a waste of
time nor a sin. He would also wish to have pointed
out the fact that the most constructive and bene-

345

ficial play is something that has to be learned and
is not likely to be an accidental ability or an in—
herited trait. Personality characteristics and psy—
chological needs provide the basis for the appeal
of specific types of recreation. For maximum sat-

isfaction, one requires not only encouragement but
almost always some instruction.

To the Parent: Education of parents regarding
their role with their children’s play is indicated.
Ability to. play is a learned ability. Therefore, a
child should have ample opportunity to play alone,
to play with his parents, and to play with other
children, both at home and elsewhere. It is not
sufficient merely to send a child off to play in an
isolated, fanciful, make-believe world all by him—
self.

The child whose parents have avocational inter-
ests is much more likely to develop such interests.
Not only is the example important but the sharing
of interests within the family is the source of much
stimulation and satisfaction.

A word of caution: Recreation is not like qui-
nine, to be forced down the throat of the child.
Therefore, the child’s interests should certainly
not be restricted to those of his parents. The wise
parent encourages the initial interests of his child
— as a serious, worthwhile endeavor, whether these
be in sewing or lathe work, stamp collecting or
baseball. Parents should not only set the example
of participation in worthwhile activities, but also
should provide the facilities, the encouragement
and the approval of child-initiated activities.

To the Community: The psychiatrist should like
to challenge the neighborhood and the community
to the importance of a recreational program for the
maintenance of mental health of its members. In
his hospital, the psychiatrist sees to the provision
of trained workers and of the most adequate type
of recreational facilities, as an essential part of his
setup. An effective community recreation program
is just as important to mental health as sanitation
is to physical health.

Our communities have assumed the responsibil—
ity of reducing unemployment. When we become
wise enough, they will be equally interested in
providing recreational facilities and expert leader-
ship. The usual work week requires only eight
hours a day, not more than six days a week, and
in many instances only five. Teaching ways to fill
free time with constructive, healthful activity is
partially a responsibility of the community. The
town which provides only alleys and beer joints,
as places to play, should not wonder why delin—
quency and venereal disease thrive. Both are
symptoms of social maladjustment and therefore

346

are problems of morale rather than morals.

To the Older Person: Recreation is an ex-
tremely important aid to growing older gracefully.
People who stay young despite their years, do so
because of an active interest that provides satis-
faction through participation.

The elderly person with a hobby is almost al—
ways an alert, interesting person. I think of no
more spectacular example than my remarkable
physician father, who has been an avid horticul-
turist and botanist all through his busy years as a
physician. At the age of seventy-five when gar-
dening became too strenuous, he became an expert
in mineralogy, setting up his own machinery for
cutting and polishing stones. At eighty—five he
took up conchology—the study of seashells—and
has become proficient in identifying and classifying
all types of mollusca.

By contrast, there is no more pathetic sight than
the older person who has no interest in life and

only sits and waits—vivid evidence of the value
of recreation to mental health.

Conclusion

In presenting some of the aspects of recreation
from the point of view of the psychiatrist, I have

. wanted most to indicate our belief in 'the impor-

tance of recreation to mental health, both thera—
peutic in illness and prophylactic for well—being.
I have wanted to indicate to you that those of us
in the field of psychiatry are deeply interested in.
what you are doing. We should like to help in
furthering your daily work and to enlist your
interest and help in those aspects of recreation
which are so important to us in our daily work.

In this troubled world today, so filled with un—
happiness, distress, anxiety and restlessness, to
whom can one look for help? It is my firm con—
viction that if we could encourage and teach and
guide more people to more effective re-creative
activity, we could and would make a major con—
tribution to our national and international peace

of mind. That, it seems to me, is the big challenge
to recreation workers today!‘

 

“ ‘Psychiatry, says Dr. Will sensibly, cannot save
the world all by itself.’ He has no patent psychiat—
ric pills for ending war, or meeting the threat of
the atomic bomb—or even for getting children to
stop “biting their nails. But the world, he thinks,
would be a better place to live in if people were
healthier in their minds.”

Time, October 25, 1948, under MEDICINE.

RECREATION

“Older persons need responsibility . . .
apection and attention . . . Their work
should never be abruptly stopped . . .”

No One Under Sixty Need Apply

Arline Britton Boucher
John Leo Tehan

T 11 :30 P. M. the telephone in a Bronx apart—

ment jangled. A woman’s voice demanded,

“Is this Miss Landau? Well, I’d like to know

where my father is. A fine thing—“he’s seventy—
six years old, and not home yet.”

Sleepily, Miss Gertrude Landau, director of the
Hodson Community Center replied, “I’m sorry,
Mrs. G. I don’t know where your father is now.
He was at the recreation center until it closed at
six o’clock. I think he was planning to take his
friend Mrs. R. to dinner and the movies after-
wards.”

Several weeks later the elderly gentleman and
the sixty-five-year—old widow were married, and a
gala reception was held at the Hodson Center in
the old Boro Hall Building in the Bronx. It was
the first wedding, in the first full-time recreation
center designed for men and women over sixty
years. This, similar to other clubs, is run for and
by the members themselves.

In its less than five years, the center has won
international recognition. Socially conscious ob—
servers and educators from all over the United
States, France, Finland, Czechoslovakia and South
America have visited it so that they may pattern
other centers after it.

For here in the Bronx, men and women in their
late sixties, seventies and eighties are proving that
age need not be a gradual decline of body and
mind, with tired eyes closing, but a time of active
fulfillment; mentally and physically, with eyes
looking ahead. -

\Nhen the center was started as an experiment
by the New York City Department of Welfare in
September 1943, there was a great need for recre-
ation and purposeful activity for older people.
New York City alone has more than 500,000 peo-

NOVEMBER 1948

ple over sixty-five years, of age——thousands of
whom are living alone in furnished rooms, feeling
useless, unwanted and resentful. In the nation,
there aremore than 9,000,000 people over sixty-
live, and the number is increasing yearly as the
average life expectancy lengthens. '

Specialists in geriatrics, the study of the elderly,

.have found that complete senility is rare, but that

much of the physical and mental deterioration of
older people is greatly accelerated by inactivity,
loneliness and boredom. Although several attempts
have been made in New York and other cities
to provide an answer to the problem facing these
men and women, the Hodson Center is probably
one of the first to offer a comprehensive program
of activity on a five-day week, ten to six schedule.

No one realized just how wide was the need
when the center opened, with more than 350 peo-
ple attending. Since then several hundred men
and women, many in their seventies, some in their
eighties, travel everyday by bus, streetcar, elevated
or on foot to the gaunt stone building overlooking
the park in the upper section of the Bronx. All
during the cold and snow of the past winter, the
average daily attendance numbered over two hun-
dred. .
As one frail old lady, her hands blue from cold,
her shawled head powdered with snow, remarked,
“Stay away? I couldn’t. It’s like coming home.”
This same old lady, with no living relatives, had
submitted an application for admission to an old
people’s home before she first visited the center.
Shortly thereafter, she withdrew her application.
“I only applied because I was lonely,” she said,
“and now I have so many friends.”

The traffic cop on the corner of Third and Tre-
mont Avenues, who watches the old pe0ple com—

347

ing and going, remarked one day: “I used to dread
the thought of retirement. Not now! I’ve got
my application in at the center.”

The underlying idea of the center is as simple
as the human needs it serves. It offers motiva-
tion and materials for activities, room for relaxa-
tion and, above all, the companionship of contem-
poraries for those who feel neglected only because
they are growing old. The club was set up as a
public service for all older men and women in the
area. To some who hesitated about coming, it was
pointed out, “Your children use the public schools
and parks. You do not hesitate to use public
utilities. Why not a recreation center designed
especially for you ?”

Any older person is invited; and no charge is
made, regardless of the financial standing of mem-
bers. Here they do not use the term “old” but
“older,” recognizing that age is always relative.
On the old building’s worn doorstep, hundreds of
men and women, poor or well-to-do, often lonely
and uncertain, have hesitated, then stepped across
it into a renewal of life bright with meaning.

The center-named for the late Commissioner
of Welfare, William Hodson, who was particularly
interested in the problems of the aging—began
modestly. Welfare workers searched long, finally
located an empty room in the old Boro Building.
They cleaned, painted, and supplied it with a few
tables, chairs and pictures loaned by the Federal
Arts Project. Today, it boasts several rooms—a
recreation room, a library, an art room, two craft
work rooms, a pool room and a kitchenette. The
members themselves have done an excellent job of
decorating, and the walls are bright with the
pictures which they have painted in art class. Much
of the organizational work was done by Harry
Levine of the Department of Welfare.

At first, Miss Landau, a trained social worker
with imagination and patience, was the only
“staff,” and was employed on a part-time basis at
that. Now, as full-time director, she is assisted by
instructors in art, English, woodworking; student
assistants; and a cleaning woman. Her salary is
paid by the city, while all the other workers are
paid by the center. Finances are raised by the
Board of Directors of the Hodson Center, a group
of socially conscious New Yorkers who cooperate
with the Welfare Department and Bronx House-—
a neighboring community house—in over-all su-
pervision. In addition, some group projects car-
ried out by the older people have netted as much
as $500, a source of great satisfaction to members,

for they often ask: “How can we pay for what
we get from the center?”

348

The tremendous changes that the center has
made in the lives of its participants can be seen
wherever one looks. Typical is the situation of
Heinrich, the Austrian refugee. One November
afternoon he arrived, after seeing a notice of the
center in his German language newspaper. He
could speak only a little English—his eyes were
still dark with the horrors he had witnessed in
Europe during the war years. At first he could

not believe that the club was for everyone. Pain—

fully he asked Miss Landau, “Is das fur mick?”—
“Is it for me?”

Her warm reassurance, the first real welcome
he had felt in years, was his first step back to the
human dignity which is a result of being wanted.
Soon he began to draw in charcoal, then paint in
oils—portraits of Dante, Homer, Goethe, copied
from the few books he had saved. At first he
refused to show them to anyone. Gradually he
sought encouragement, expanded under the praise
of the others, who now vie with each other for the
chance to sit for their portrait. Heinrich loves to
have his pictures displayed; and he also is pro-
gressing in the English class.

Miss Ruth G., on the other hand, is a quiet
woman of seventy who formerly spent many hours
by herself doing intricate crochet work. When an—
other woman asked her, “Will you show me how?”
she was astonished. “Nobody ever asked me that,”
she said. Today she is a competent teacher of
crocheting and gets many women started on an
absorbing hobby.

Recognition by the community means much to
center members. Recently the group put on a
play, “The Stranger,” which was written, acted
and directed by them. Tickets were sold to the
public. When the N ew York Times covered the

 

Older people insist that their projects he “purpose-
ful”. They enjoy the opportunity of making things.

RECREATION

show, and published the review on its drama page,
the elation of the actors (many of whom had never
been on the stage before) was boundless. One old
gentleman of seventy-nine was overheard remark-
ing to his wife, “I think I really will take up act-
ing seriously.”

In this project all joined enthusiastically. Some
sold tickets, others acted as ushers, stage hands,
scenic designers. One timid old lady volunteered
to get an ad for the program from her neighbor-
hood grocer. “He probably won’t remember me,”
she said. “It’s been so long since I’ve bought any
meat.” Later she returned, almost speechless with
her triumph at getting the ad. The play took in
$250, which went toward the purchase of a movie
projector for everyone to enjoy.

Men are strongly in the majority here, although
the women are not overshadowed. Daily they pre-
pare and serve refreshments, for which they shop
beforehand. The tea or coffee, light sandwiches,
cakes and cookies are a high spot for everyone,
the big meal of the day for some.

One woman of seventy-five was eager to serve
on the refreshment committee. “You see,” she
explained, “I haven’t had my own home for thirty
years and I always loved to entertain.” She was
unanimously elected chairman. Two men who had
been hotel waiters volunteered to help. A clean-up
committee was formed, with specific duties for
each.

Little Mary S. has astonished everyone. As the
roving reporter for the club’s monthly magazine,
she writes a gossipy column which is read avidly.
Affectionately known as “Mama Scully” she has
become a Dorothy Dix, to whom many come for
advice on their'personal affairs. Yet a few months
ago she sat timidly by herself, absorbed in her
knitting.

The growth of a group from complete depen-
dence on the director to mature self-determination
is interesting. At first, members were like chil-
dren, awaiting suggestions, unwilling to act alone,
seeking immediate approval. Now, for many, their
old independence has reasserted itself. When elec-
tions were first held (unwillingly), Miss Landau’s
name was put up for every office. Now the club’s
elected officers direct group projects—whether
boat rides, picnics or a plan to make utility bags
for patients in a veterans’ hospital. All projects,
they insist, must be “purposeful.”

A most heartening aspect of this center is the
youthfulness of spirit prevalent everywhere——
everyone is planning for tomorrow, still eager to
learn and to accomplish. As the needs have arisen,
classes have been started—in art, English, wood-

NOVEMBER 1948

working, leather crafts, music. The English class
has a regular attendance of about twenty. Said one
man of seventy—four who was born in Italy, “It is
exciting—this English. I have so much to learn.
I must hurry, hurry.” An old couple, who always
sat by themselves and communicated with each
other by nods and gestures, seemed afraid to join
the class. Finally the wife said, “N 0 Speak.” Now
they attend regularly.

Members share their renewed skills willingly. A
seventy-two year old poet, formerly a member of
the American Poetry Society, is the-capable editor
of the monthly magazine and has been a patient
teacher of his writing staff. A woman who does
excellent beadwork spent hours teaching another
woman to make a necklace for her little grand-
daughter. One man, who years before had fol-
lowed the trade of making artificial flowers, did all
the decoration for the Christmas party, then
started a class for women who wanted to make
flowers, too. Another man had considerable me-
chanical skill but “nobody ever needed me to do
anything.” Now he does all electrical repairs, fixes
all broken furniture and gadgets at the center.
Bookshelves for the library were made by an ex-
carpenter; the letterbox was made by a former
tinsmith.

Genuine democracy is evident. Membership in-
cludes Jewish, Protestant and Catholic folks, a few
Negroes and a wide range of national origins. At
the last Christmas party, a Protestant woodworker
designed a Catholic religious grotto, while the
mold was made by a Jewish tinsmith. The grotto
was sold for the benefit of the group. When mem-
bers of a Negro society visited the club, they were
entertained hospitably, and many members ac-
cepted their invitation to attend a return party.

Any holiday is an excuse for a celebration. One
year the Irish feast of St. Patrick’s Day and the
Jewish feast of Purim were celebrated together,
complete with shamrock cookies and hamenta-
schen.

Friendships continue after club hours. Women,
especially, visit each other’s homes or attend
movies together. When a Jewish member died
recently, many made the long journey at night to
his home in order to offer sympathy to his widow.

To their families, these older people have sud-
denly assumed a new importance. Instead of just
“grandpa” or “the old folks” they have in many
cases regained their identity. One man did not
tell his wife and son about the center until he
brought home a copy of the paper in which his
name was mentioned twice. “They looked at me,”
he reported, “as if they had never seen me before

349

and my son said, ‘Why, dad. You’re still going

3”

places .
A middle-aged daughter came to the center for

the Easter party, at which her father sang several
operatic arias. With tears in her eyes, she said,
“This place is just wonderful for my father. We
haven’t been able to get him to sing anything since
Mother died three years ago.”

Many physical handicaps, which formerly seemed
incapacitating, have been almost forgotten thanks
to the stimulating effect of the center. One man
used to spend most of each day at the neighbor-
hood clinic with half a dozen complaints. “I haven’t
got time to worry about myself any more,” he says
now. A man of eighty formerly insisted on having
a Red Cross volunteer drive him to a clinic every
day. Now he comes alone by bus to the center
three times a week.

Although each member has his own particular
interest— art, chess, cards, sewing, woodwork,
pool playing, radio listening—it is in the group
work that the esprit de corps proudly shows itself.
Everyone worked for the annual bazaar, for in.—
stance—some making leather belts or pocketbooks;
some painting jewelry, building cabinets and book-
shelves, designing copper plates and pitchers,

weaving raffia baskets, crocheting bedspreads,
painting landscapes. All the products of their
work were put on sale for relatives and friends.
The teamwork was remarkable.

It is obvious from Hodson Center’s experience
that no matter how old a person is, he can’t be
really happy unless he is busy. Recreation centers
such as this should be set up in every community
where there are older pe0ple. Financing should
not be difficult. The Community Chest and local
social welfare groups could underwrite much of
the eXpense, while in some cases where economic
circumstances permit, small subscription fees could
be paid by members. The cost of such centers
would not be a fraction of the money which is now
spent on caring for old people in mental hospitals
and homes where they usually receive only cus-
todial care.

The later years of life possess vast untapped
possibilities. Perhaps much of the burden placed
on now overworked social workers could be lifted
if the older person were encouraged, on a paid
basis whenever possible, to work part-time in set—
tlement houses, in hospitals, in recreation centers
and in nurseries. Then age could be regarded as
a happy culmination of life, not a dreaded ending.

 

Two Ladies Form it Club *

ARATHER UNUSUAL classified ad appeared in a
recent edition of the Washington Post:

“Join Our Little Ladies Club. Girls, ages 8 to
I 3 ;‘initiation fee, 35 cents. Write Helen Hickey,
5112 5th st. nw. When you join you receive a pin
and membership card.”

You know me. I just can’t resist Little Ladies
Clubs. So I looked up founder Helen Hickey, and
found her with cofounder Harriet Gitelson.

“\Nho gets all this money—all those initiation
fees?” I asked.

“Thirty cents of it covers the cost of the mem-
bership pin.. The other five cents goes into the
treasury.”

“And who gets the treasury?”

“Oh, that’s used to buy materials—for our dolls

and pictures and games and things. We’re making
them.”

“You’re making dolls and pictures and things?
W hy ?”

“To give to the kids at Children’s HOSpital.
Didn’t you know? The Little Ladies are going to
make all sorts of presents for the sick children in

 

*chrinted by permission of the Washington Post.

350

Bill Gold

the hospital.”

“Why 3’”

“Because we figured that if we were sick we’d
like somebody to cheer us up and bring us things.”

“Your ad says that your members must be
eight to thirteen years old. Why don’t you invite
the older girls to join, too?”

“Oh, you know how older girls are. They prob-
ably wouldn’t take an interest in children.”

“Ummm-yeah. Say, whose idea was all this?”
' “Ours.”

' “And who put the ad in the paper?”

“Helen put it in but the lady said she couldn’t
take ads from little girls and she’d have to check
it with a grownup; so she talked to my mother and
it was all right.”

“How old are you, Helen?”

“I’m eleven. I’m in the sixth grade at St. Ga-
briel’s.”

“Harriet, how old are you ?”

“I’m nine, so I’m only in 4-B at Truesdell. Are
you going to put something in the paper about the
Little Ladies?” '

“I certainly am—ladies.”

_ RECREATION

NOVEMBER 1948

 HRISTMAS, though it comes but once a year, comes every year. This beloved

v3 [1' festival tends to remain very close to the traditional celebration—it is an
 g old, old story, but seems to lose none of its lustre in the retelling and re-
“i, ,7: , acting. In fact, people look forward to the Christmas celebration and follow
" ' l it in much the same way as a small child who begs to be told a story with
which he is very familiar, and should the storyteller attempt to change even

a small detail to vary the tale, he gets only loud protests for his trouble. So at Christ-

 

mas it is best not to try to be too original. Follow the original story, sing the carols
and around this old pattern build a Christmas program. Variety may be accom-
plished through different placement of emphasis, change in scenery, costumes and
particularly in the change of the age group of the participants.

Remember in planning a program of any kind that of all the seasons of the year
this is when people are busiest both in business and social life and thus have less
time for hobbies and community benefit participation. It is also the time when they
are apt to be most willing to help. Select a type of program in which most of the
hard work and planning can be done in the director’s mind before December. The
more care that is spent in planning, the less time will be wasted at rehearsals. Re-
hearsals must be effective and cut to the minimum. Train each group separately so
that they know what is expected of them and have a general idea of the entire
performance. Where there are no parts to be memorized, two general rehearsals are
a luxury and a program can be well-produced with one successful rehearsal. In addi-
tion to not wasting time, this method of production keeps the interest of participants
at the high level which helps their performance.

351

 

3

2

From afar, the wise men set out on
their journey to the Christ Child.

 

RECREATION

Richmond Readies for “The
Nativity,” Twentieth Edition

REP-EAT PEFHRMANCE

Pat Perkinson

year will be celebrated just as joyously as
in other cities throughout the nation; but there is
one group of people there to whom this will mean
more than just another “night before Christmas.”
This group, representative in many ways of those
preceding them, will present the twentieth annual
production of “The Nativity” for the peOple of
Richmond. For the first time, funds appr0priated
by the City Council have been earmarked for the
project in the annual budget.

The setting again will be the majestic singing
tower in historic William Byrd Park, Virginia’s
memorial to the dead of World War I. From the
specially built stage erected at the base of the Ca-
rillon, talented actors recruited from the churches
of Richmond will present six stirring scenes, in
pantomime, as the narrator’s voice rings through
'the winter air. From another level on the Caril-
lon, the choir of sixty mixed voices, representing
several musical organizations, will provide a back-
ground accompaniment of carols that are almost
as familiar as the story they portray.

If past audiences are any basis for judging, some
5,000 men, women and children, from every walk
of life, will be present—forgetting their numb feet
and cold noses as they stand, perhaps ankle—deep
in snow, to see and hear anew this old, old story.

The Richmond story begins several decades ago
when a group of civic—minded persons became con—
scious 0f the need for a municipal Christmas cele-
bration, and held a city-wide celebration in a va-
cant lot, where the State Library Building now
stands. For many years the Boy Scouts had set

CHRISTMAS EVE IN Richmond, Virginia, this

up their Yuletide tree, and the city firemen and ‘

Parent-Teachers Associations shared the task of
decorating it. Realizing the effectiveness of having
the huge tree where more could enjoy it, the spon-

soring groups roped off a portion of Broad Street
on a hilltop, and for several seasons the tree, sym—

NOVEMBER 1948

bolizing the holiday spirit of an entire city, could
be seen by workers and shoppers in the business
district and by the residents at the foot of the
slope. Every Christmas Eve, school and church
groups would gather there to sing the beloved
traditional carols.

In 1926, the celebration was moved by the Com-
munity Recreation Association to the Capitol
Square, one block away, where it was presented
from the broad steps in front of the Capitol. Then
it consisted of a tableau backed with music and
narration. Reminiscent of the hrst celebrations,
the two evergreens at the foot of the steps were
lavishly decorated.

Since few people could see a pageant at this
location, tableaux Were presented the following
year in the windows of the Capitol Building. As
Christmas-spirited crowds walked from window to
window, a narrator told of the wonderful happen-
ings on that first Christmas Eve, and the choir
sang messages of good tidings as the angels had
done long ago.

Church groups, civic and social organizations,
and industrial groups were invited by the Commu-
nity Recreation Association to become a part of
the Christmas Celebration Committee in 1928, un—
der the leadership of one of Richmond’s most
distinguished citizens, the late John Stewart Bryan,
who served as chairman until his death. It was
Mr. Bryan’s conviction that Richmond had dis—
covered something in the pageant of “The Nativ-
ity” that would become as significant to the people
of Virginia as the Passion Play is to the world.

Again feeling a need for a better location, this
committee constructed a wooden platform over the
water fountain at the foot of Capitol Hill where
spectators could watch from the slopes. The
pageant itself was quite different that year, thanks
to Claire McCarthy, now superintendent of the
sponsoring Richmond Division of Recreation, who

353

had just returned from the National Recreation
Congress in Atlantic City, where she had por-
trayed the Virgin Mary in the Boston Theatre
League’s staging of the Christmas story. The new
script was adapted for outdoor production and the
job of narrating was bestowed upon Dr. Douglas
S. Freeman, well-known editor and historian. Dr.
Freeman played that role until 1946 when his
nephew, Mallory Freeman, became narrator.

With the expansion in production and scenery,
the cast and staff also grew. Numerous groups
volunteered talent and equipment. Among those
who still take a very active part are the Catholic
Theatre Guild, Shrine Chanters, the Richmond
I'VIinisterial Union, the Council of Churchwomen,
the Richmond Theatre Guild, Richmond Opera
Group, Ars Musica Guild, Richmond Musicians’
Club, Richmond Public Schools, Virginia Electric
and Power Company, Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company, Richmond Theatre Mana-
gers, and the Walter D. Moses music store, which
installs, without charge, a Hammond organ for
the occasion.

Presented for the last time at Capitol Square in
1942, the pageant was abandoned during the war
because of shortages of manpower and materials.
Resumed in 1946, it was presented at its new and
present location, the Carillon. That year the proj-
ect was in transition from private sponsorship to
public financing, and in the interest of the com-
munity one of the city’s largest merchants, Miller
and Rhoads, came to-the rescue with funds. in
1947 the council appropriated the money neces-
sary to carry on the tradition.

This year, the committee, which met in October
to make detailed plans for the approaching pageant,
has at its disposal $1,500 provided in the munici-
pal recreation budget to take care of eXpenses such
as lights, costumes, labor and so on. For a pro-
duction which boasts a cast of 200 and a staff of
twenty-five, plus innumerable individuals who help
in one way or another, this amount seems rather
small. But the secret of low expenditures is also
the secret of the pageant’s success—gifts—not of
money, but of time, talent and materials. Think of
the total expenses if the Department of Public
Utilities charged for stringing the cables across
the sky and for wiring the large star which moves
impressively through the night as the pageant
progresses and comes to rest over the manger in
the Adoration scene; if Walter D. Moses charged
rent on the giant Hammond organ; if actors and
singers presented bills for their contributions.

Costumes and scenery were once big items in
the budget for the pageant; however, accumula-

354

tions through the years have built up a supply that
has been adequate for the past several productions.
These items are kept in the Carillon basement,
where the recreation division ‘stores all such mate-
rial, and are not used for any other project. When
this year’s committee members unearth the Christ-
mas pageant supplies, they will find everything
they need in the way of costumes and properties,
including the indispensable flashlights.

This year’s pageant committee boasts a well-
organized promotions committee with representa-
tives from countless clubs, women’s groups and
churches who will make sure that each citizen is
invited to attend the impressive event. As last
year, the mayor will send a printed invitation to
each school child and his family; and the tradi-
tional Christmas greetings from the mayor and the
governor of the state will again launch the pageant.

Text for “The Nativity” is adapted from Mat-
thew and Luke. “Now it came to pass that the
Lord God Jehovah spoke unto Abraham saying,
‘And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth
be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice’.”
Thus, as the dim lights fall upon his brown robe
and tight cap, the narrator will unfold the story
of the twentieth pageant.

The scenes that follow are acted on the stage,
as the narrator continues from his raised stand to
the left. In the first scene the angel Gabriel ap-
pears in a vision to Mary to reveal her place in
the coming of the Savior. Then the actors portray
Mary ’and Joseph’s journey to Bethlehem t0 reg-
ister for the Roman taxes, and their night in the
manger after vain attempts to secure a room at the-
inn. Angels appear in the third scene to announce
the birth of Christ to the shepherds as they tend
their flocks. Herod commands his wise men to go
find the Christ Child and bring him to the court
in the tense fourth scene. The only completely
musical scene is the fifth, introduced by a trumpet
piercing the night from the very top of the Caril-
lon, followed by the singing angels who appear on
the balcony high on the tower. In the final scene,
the shepherds and wise men, who have followed
the Star of Bethlehem, kneel in adoration at the
cradle of Jesus. The narrator ends the pageant
saying “And Jesus said, ‘Peace I leave with you.
My peace I give unto you’.”

As the choir sings “Hark, the Herald Angels '
Sing” men, women and children will return to
their homes to await Christmas Day, filled with an
indescribable feeling of peace. And another Christ-
mas pageant troop will pack away the costumes
and scenery, inspired with the feeling that they

have completed a job worth doing.

RECREATION

Why Not r
Block Print Your Christmas Cards?*

Toni Ford

UITE LIKELY YOU have thought of making your
Q own block printed cards before, but just
never got around to it. Or maybe you did try it,
with poor results. You should have seen the first
ones we tried—it would make you feel a lot better.
However, we’ve had more experience since then,
and the information we are writing here may en-
courage some beginner to make a start.

We’ll start with the design. All the fancy tools,
ink and paper aren’t of much use without a good
idea. It needn’t be anything startling or- intricate
or tricky. Christmas, to all of us, is represented
by certain time-worn symbols, and you can ar-
range any of these, or combinations of them, in an
original and interesting way. Holly and mistletoe,
pine boughs and poinsettia, candles and Christmas
trees, deer, shepherds, babies and madonnas are
just a few of the things that symbolize Christmas.
The snow covered roof of a house means home——
the center of our Christmas thoughts, and so it
has a place in many of our designs for the season.

Begin by making simple sketches of some of
these symbols that particularly appeal to you.
Many of them could be used just as they are or
with the addition of a border, or by just cutting
out the lines of the design and leaving a back-
ground to be printed. Any of these designs could
be worked out as a white line, a black line or a
combination print. Where we cut the design lines
into the block and ink and print the background,
we have a white line print. When we cut the back-—
ground away and leave the lines of the design in
relief, we have a black line print; and when we do
a little of each we make a combination print.

You’ll need to consider your paper next. Some-
times the size of the block you cut will-be influ-
enced by the size of the sheets of paper you choose,
so it is a good thing to decide on it before you

NOVEMBER 1948

Fun for family groups, friends, YOU

actually cut the design. You want a‘ paper that
is absorbent. This is particularly important when
printing by hand, because you cannot distribute
the ink on the block as evenly with a hand roller
as can be done on a printing press in the printing
shop. You can generally find a satisfactory paper
at a local printing establishment or an art supply
house. Many cover papers will work out well, as
will colored drawing papers and boards, charcoal
papers and, when obtainable, such special block
print papers as rice paper and the like. Kraft
wrapping paper, in heavy weights, can be worked
up well with red ink. Paper towels of the better
grades will take an impression well, 'and so will
many textures of paper napkins. These are espe-
cially useful when you do not have a press for
printing and registry (locating the impression in
the correct place) is a problem. In such cases,
print on a small piece of paper towel, paper napkin

‘or kleenex, trim or tear a square around the im-

print, and mount this with rubber cement on your
folder. You can make interesting cards in brown
or red ink on government 'postal cards, or use
other colors on suitable letter paper or correspon-
dence cards. However, don’t get paper with a
linen finish; it doesn’t look well. You can print
your design on separate squares of paper, of con-
trasting color if you like, and mount the design on
the top sheet, or on the inside sheet, of your note
paper. This helps to solve that problem of reg~
istry, too. One of the best ideas, if your paper is
fairly heavy, is to make the print in such a position
on the flat sheet that, when it is folded, it need
only be closed with a Christmas seal, addressed
and mailed—no envelope needed.

Now you are ready to cut the block. Linoleum

 

*Reprinted from Put Your Cards on the Table, by Toni Ford,

by permission of the Penland School of Handicrafts, Penland,
North Carolina.

355

is widely used in place of wood these days. You
can get scraps of battleship linoleum from the
furniture store, which can be printed with a clothes
wringer or can be mounted on a flat block for
printing. If you can do so, however, it will be
best to buy type-high standard printing blocks
from your art supply dealer. If you wish to have
your cards printed professionally at some commer-
cial print shop, after your designing and cutting,
the type-high block is a “must.” If you can, get
'blocks with a white surface for greater visibility
when you trace the design. If you can’t get a block
that is the correct size for your design, get a larger
one and have it cut down at any print shop or at
a wood shop. If you are careful, you can do it
with the family hand saw.

There are two ways commonly used to transfer
the design to the block. You may trace the design
by using carbon paper directly on the face of the
block, or carbonize the back of the design sheet
with a soft lead pencil for tracing purposes. In the
second method, the design is transferred by means
of India ink and ammonia. The first method is
generally satisfactory if the design is fairly simple
and doesn’t have much detail. Remember, in us-
ing this method, that any lettering that appears on
your card must be cut in reverse on the block.
The advantage of the India ink process is that all
lettering is automatically reversed on the block, as
is the whole design, so that when it is printed, it
appears as your original design was drawn. To
use this method, you first draw or trace over your
design with India ink, just as you wish it to appear
on the finished print. Use a pen for lines and a
brush to ink in large areas. When the design is
dry, place it face down in the correct position on
the block, and lay a piece of blotting paper on top
of it. Pour a generous amount of household am—
monia on the blotter, place another blotter or piece
of paper on top, and'a piece of cardboard or fiat
strip of wood on that. Now place a weight on the
top of the pile—an electric iron or some heavy
book will do. In three or four minutes you will
find the design perfectly transferred, in reverse, on
the block.

Cutting tools are important. The beginner some-
times thinks he can do an acceptable job without
the right equipment. We tried to cut our first one
with a penknife and a razor blade. It just won’t
do. The right tools are so inexpensive that it
doesn’t pay to try to get along with unsatisfactory
substitutes. A veining tool made especially for
cutting line blocks can be purchased from any art
supply source for thirty or forty cents. It’s worth
it. It’s nice if you can have two—the small V

356

veiner and broader U veiner. The former is used
for fine lines and the latter for removing bigger
areas and backgrounds. You can use a similar
tool from a woodcarving set. There are special
line tools on the market consisting of a variety of
removable blades which can be inserted in a stand-
ard handle. These are very satisfactory and are
also inexpensive. The cutting technique is rather
simple. Hold the block firmly with one hand and
keep this holding hand always behind the hand
holding the tool. Some people, on the other hand,
prefer to nail two strips of wood on a drawing
board, in the shape of an “L.” This arrangement
holds the block steady while carving and allows
more freedom for both hands. Turning the block
works better than turning the tool, when cutting.

Hold the tool, for most cuts, with the’ end of
the handle against the palm of the hand and the
forefinger along the blade to guide it. Sometimes,
for light cuts, you may hold the tool like a pencil.
Make narrow cuts shallow; wider cuts and back—
ground areas should be removed to a greater depth.
Light cuts are made by holding the tool more
nearly horizontal. Raise the tool to an almost ver-
tical position and push harder for deep cuts. Don’t
make vertical cuts —that is, cuts with straight
sides. Leave a slanting shoulder so that the edge
of the design will not crumble off with the pressure
of printing. Be especially careful of this in making
narrow border lines around your design. When
you start printing, you may find that the back-
ground is printing where you did not intend that it .
should—you can then take the U tool and remove
more material. Sometimes the background is part
of your design and the accidental print lines are
very attractive. This, of course, would depend
upon the design.

When your block is ready for inking, test it by
making several proofs. Much of the poor appear-
ance of amateur prints is caused by carelessness in
printing. There is first the matter of ink, and you
will find that there are two kinds that will do an
acceptable job—regular printers’ ink which has an
oil base, and watercolor printing inks. Don’t try
to use artists’ oil colors or tempera or anything
else. You can get printers’ ink at almost any com—
mercial printing shop, and in blue, red, green and
brown as well as black. Composition rollers work
best for spreading oil inks. These are made of
gelatin, however, and have to be babied a lot. If
you leave 'them lying on the slab, the rollers will
fiatten, and they must be kept away from any heat.
If you aren’t going to print a lot of cards, get one
of the small rubber rollers, or brayers, that the art
stores sell. They will do pretty well with printers’

RECREATION

ink and are the best things to use with watercolor
inks. The latter have many advantages for the be-
ginner. They dry in a nice flat tone and can be
secured in many colors. They are easily spread
with a rubber brayer and are much easier to clean
up afterward than oil base ink. Before you put
your printing things away, wipe the roller clean
with a damp cloth. Do the same with the ink slab.

It is necessary to use gasoline or kerosene for this*

' job if you use printers’ ink. A piece of heavy glass

can serve as an ink block, and should be double
strength, at least. Plate glass is better; while an
old piece of marble from a marble-topped stand is
best of all. _

What are you going to use for a press? If your
block is quite small, say not more than two inches
by two inches, you can use hand pressure. Just
'place the block where you want it on the sheet,
place one hand on it to hold it, and put the other
hand on top and push. You can use foot pressure
on larger blocks. Lay a couple of thick fiat maga-
zines on the fioor (or a pile of blankets will be
.excellent for this purpose). Place your paper on
the magazines and then center the inked block in
the proper spot; place the ball of your foot down
gently on the block and slowly let your weight
down‘on it. Lift your foot straight off the block
carefully so that you will not slide it and smear
the print. It is a little hard to register the print in
the right spot when printing this way.

 

Regardless of the method of making the impres—
sion, the manner in which the block is inked will
affect the results very definitely. First of all, if
you are using a piece of glass as an ink slab, be
sure it is on a level surface so that you do not
break it by the pressure of rolling out the ink.
Don’t get a lot of ink out on the slab at one time;
squeeze out just a little—say a half inch, from the
tube. Roll this out into a thin film by rolling the
brayer up and down, and back and forth, and
across and up and down again. The purpose is to
distribute the ink in an even film over the slab,"s0

NOVEMBER 1948

that when the brayer is rolled over it a similar
even film of ink is deposited on it. When you are
inking the brayer, roll it along over the ink film
far enough so that the roller makes at least one
complete revolution; otherwise one side of the
roller will be inked heavily and the other little or
not at all. When you ink the block, lay the ink
evenly over the surface by rolling the brayer all
the way across a time or two, and then roll it
across the other way so that every bit of the sur~
face to be printed is covered.

There are a number of good block print presses
obtainable from art supply stores. These range in
price from three dollars to fifty dollars and are
worth j usthabout what you pay for them. You can
do an acceptable job on the cheapest ones, and a
better job on the better ones. Where you do just
occasional work for yourself, one of the less ex-
pensive ones will be adequate. They are operated
in different ways, and no general directions for
their use can well be given here. If you can locate
an old letter press, this can be used successfully.
If your design is cut on a type-high block, it can
be printed at any commercial print shop. Often
this is a more satisfactory solution than any other.
After all, you have had the fun of designing and
cutting!

Since it is necessary to ink heavily in printing
by hand (because you can’t get a lot of pressure
on a hand press and can’t apply it very evenly on.
many), there will naturally be a pretty heavy film
of ink on the printed card—-—more than is the case
when printing on a power press. For that reason,
it is not advisable, when printing cards by hand,
to stack them on top of each other, because the
fresh ink will come off on the back of the card
above. Lay them out to dry on a flat surface,
overlapping them to conserve space, but do not
let any part of one card lay over the printed area
of another. Try to work in a warm, dry room
when using watercolor inks, since they contain
glycerin and take quite a while to dry in a damp
location. Ordinarily, the cards will dry in a few
hours, no matter what kind of ink is used.

 

“The fascinating thing about riding a hobby is
the fact that one never knows what the destination
will be. One may think one does. But a hobby
is both whimsical,and tyrannical, and will often
lead one into situations and make contacts for one
that are beyond the wildest dreams of the imagin-
ation.”—From The Family and Its Relationships.

357

Serious purpose was the keynote; but “never
saw so many people have so much fun . . .”

The 1948 Recreation Congress

UNNY SEPTEMBER WEATHER, blue Nebraska
S skies, “Welcome to Recreation” on the mar-
quee of the Hotel Fontenelle, hearty midwestern
hospitality—all these greeted over one thousand
delegates to the thirtieth National Recreation Con-
gress in Omaha, September 26-30. Forty-six states
and several foreign countries were represented.

Opening day—and at congress headquarters the
many guests milled about, greeting old friends,
registering, getting their bearings. The hotel
buzzed with activity. Exhibitors of the latest in
recreation equipment hurried about, setting up
their attractive and conveniently located displays
—local exhibits in the main lobby; out-of—town
dealers’ exhibits on the mezzanine, immediately
adjacent to the registration desk, consultation
bureau and secretary’s office; other out—of-town
community exhibits on the first floor just at the
coffee shop entrance where diners could not miss
them. The diSplay of recreation publications in
the consultation bureau drew interested crowds,
and the pages of the appointment book rapidly
filled as visitors took advantage of the opportunity
to get first-hand information and help on recrea-
tion problems. A congress press room was again
placed at the disposal of delegates.

Meetings were crowded and enthusiastic
throughout, and at the close of the session many
were heard to remark that this congress had been
“tops.” This was singularly true. All attending
were of one accordH—intent on working out to-
gether ways in which a greatly needed recreation
job could most effectively be done. Unity-of-pur-
pose could well have been the watchword marking
this particular annual pooling of experience and
ideas.

Local citizens cooperated with the Omaha Rec—
reation Department in extending hospitality to
visitors. A local arrangements committee provided
ushers, an information booth, entertainment when-

358

ever possible, and, in general, did everything pos-
sible to make the visit to Omaha comfortable and
enjoyable.

From the Opening session on Monday night to
the closing words of Clarence L. Kirkland, chair-
man of the Park and Recreation Commission of
Omaha——-“VVhile thanking is being done, we of
Omaha want to do some thanking, too”‘-——the con-
gress was distinguished by a daily interchange of
assistance between delegates and local groups. It
proved to be a happy example of a national con-
gress and a local community working together
toward a common objective.

Scheduled events moved forward with the
smoothness that is a result of careful organization.
The congress received the help and guidance of a
number of advisory committees in dealing with
its various aspects.

Talks at General Sessions

\Videspread comment and large enthusiastic au-
diences conhrmed the fact that speakers at the
evening :sessions were particularly outstanding.
Representing an interesting variety of back-
grounds, and as authorities in fields pertinent to
that of recreation, they were able to pass on to
recreation workers experiences and observations in
allied areas of work which were particularly
valuable. .

Dr. P. M. Bail, president of the University of
Omaha, touched upon the problems of our world
today, cautioned against complacency in the face
of these problems, and stressed, as of top impor-
tance, care in the selection of competent personnel
to meet the educational and recreational needs of
32,000,000 people. Said he, “It may be much too
late to do something about these problems if we
don’t do something about the adults, those indi-
viduals who are running around in circles and
don’t know whom to follow, those who have a tre-

RECREATION

mendous amount of time which they are spending
in a release from boredom, an escape from reality.
Think what would happen to the 32,000,000 if we
selected leaders with the wrong ideologies, who
did not believe in American democracy, who did
not have faith in the American people!

“When children come forward at graduation,
too often we say, ‘Now get out of here. We don’t
want to have anything to do with you anymore.
You can’t come back and play in our orchestra
. . . You have been, of course, in our junior and
senior class plays but we can’t have you coming
back to our little theatre because all of its time is
filled up’.” »

Dr. William H. Alexander, the well—known and
popular pastor of the First Christian Church in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, who is known for his
championing of recreation for young people, gave
a stimulating and forceful talk in which he ap—
pealed to leaders of youth, as being in “one of the
greatest jobs of the world,” to avoid confused or
prejudiced thinking, to love young people sin-
cerely, and to maintain a positive attitude in work-
ing with them—giving them positive things to do.
He stated: “You are not going to do anything for
your young people unless you believe in them.
Belief is the greatest lifting power in the world
. . . I have seventeen boys paroled to me in Okla—
homa City right now. I have never met a bad
boy! . . . Young pe0ple today are basically clean,
basically moral, basically honest, and more than
anything else we need to believe in them, let them
know that we believe in them, and when we do
that——they will live up to the best they have in
them.”

The Honorable Val Peterson, young and enthu-
siastic Governor of Nebraska, vigorous supporter
of recreation, told of the development of the needs
for recreation within his state, making a plea that,
generally, more be done in schools and churches
everywhere—on a year-round basis. He spoke of
the new state recreation opportunities which will
grow out of the thrilling development of the
Missouri River Basin. The citizens of Nebraska
and adjoining states are cooperating in a gigantic
project to control all moisture falling in an area
of 535,000 square miles of territory, thus bringing
new prosperity, new life to the dust bowl areas
of the Missouri Valley.

At another evening session, Major General

Lewis A. Pick, who directed the building of the
famed Lido Road in the China-Burma-India Thea-
tre of World War II, followed up the governor’s
announcement with a colorful story of the romance
and hard work of this undertaking in the Missouri

NOVEMBER 1948

 

T. E. Rivers, Congress Secretary, inviting Mayor Cun-
ningham of Omaha to 1949 New Orleans Congress.

Basin, thrilling the audience with the statement
that, upon completion, that area would become one
of the recreation paradises of the world. General
Pick is now in charge of that project.

Dr‘. William C. Menninger, of the Menninger
Psychiatric Clinic, president of the American Psy-
chiatric Association, offered a forceful plea for the
cooperation of professionals in the fields of psychi-
atry and recreation, giving an illuminating expla-
nation of the relation of recreation andtmental
health. (See page 340 in this issue of RECREATION
for full text of this address.)

On the other hand, Miss Margaret Hickey,
editor, Public Affairs Department, Ladies Home
Journal, chose the topic “Help Wanted: Women
Partners for Recreation Leadership,” in which she
cautioned recreation leaders to seek the coopera-
tion of community women in deve10ping local rec-
reation programs, warning them “never to under—
estimate the power of a woman.” Said Miss
Hickey, “I am talking about. men and women.
becoming fully responsible partners in the commu-
nity.”

Dr. William Cooper, director, Summer Study
and Adult Education, Hampton Institute, passed
on to delegates some of the experiences in meeting
rural recreation needs in Virginia. The following
statement might be applicable in any state: “If we
are to meet successfully the challenges of recrea-
tion in rural Virginia, we must build our program
county by county, community by community, in
terms of the interests and resources of the local
pe0ple. We cannot have recreation for them, but
must help them develop and improve their recrea-
tion program growing out of their interests and
ideals.”

Dr. James L. Woods Zwingle, president of Park

359

Unsuspecting Congress
Delegates Caught in—

Busy Moments

0maha, 1948

 

Governor and Mrs. Peterson (center) :, Robert Hutchings, head Arthur Todd (right), NRA district representative in m
of congress publicity, swing into action as square dancing starts. west, conferring with James Sears, Jefferson City, Missou

 

     

         

, ‘ "’  a.
r  1% ii s

-:a m,

   

r I " ' A
f- 2’
f” z ’ ’
I. 4 ' A
~ r/  Ix :

At publications display, R. Foster Blais ell of NBA staif Delegates taking techniques of square dancing more serious
(left); Frank Annebcrg, Kansas; Julian Smith, Michigan. in one of the afternoon activities sessions in social recreatia

360 RECREATION

l v ‘ .7 i  .2

George Butler of NBA staff (left), in charge of con-
gress consultation bureau, checks with Mr. Blaisdell.

Youngest delegate, sixteen-year-old Belva Thum, Ith-
aca, Michigan, represents her chamber of commerce.

.. H _-  t  7 “he;
»  v A Mm.

Omaha Princess, M rie B. Bredbeck, head of local
history display; Nelle Jenkins, Kansas City; Mr. Todd.

" .‘a 1' ‘ .;... «'3 

Exhausted, F. L. McReynolds, Indiana State Super— Charles E. Reed, manager NRA field staff (left),
visor of Youth and Recreation, steals a “catnap.” “in conference.” Mr. McReynolds seems refreshed.

NOVEMBER 1948 361

 

College, Parkville, Missouri, spoke on “Recreation
Challenges the Colleges.” In pointing out that
workers in both recreation and formal education
are doing what they can to enable people to enjoy
a better quality of life, he said, “The spiritual
welfare of any people depends, in a large measure,
upon a certain minimum achievement materially.
But, when that material achievement becomes a
goal in itself, instead of a means toward a better
quality of human life, the material achievement
ceases to have meaning . . . Thus it is not enough
that you be simply leaders of activity or of what
might be called fun. First of all, you and I must
be philosophers of our profession and thus help
create the philosopher citizen who is, in himself, a
unit of strength, to produce and preserve the kind
of life in which human beings can be worthy of

themselves.”
(Editor’s Note: Text of the foregoing addresses will
be available in the new Congress Proceedings.)

Schedule of Work

Widely known as a hard-working convention,
the congress this year carried on this tradition
more intensively than ever. A series of thirty-three
panel discussions running through the week in-
cluded such topics as Recreation for Older People,
Family Recreation, Programs for Women and
Girls, Training, Teen—Age Problems, Volunteers,
Planning Neighborhood Areas and Buildings,
Public Relations, Personnel Standards, Drama,
Publications, and so on.

Each afternoon, scheduled activity sessions, led
by specialists, offered a vigorous hour and a half
on drama, arts and crafts, folk and square dancing,
music and social recreation. In the Joslyn Memo-
_rial Building, Omaha’s beautiful art center, arts
and crafts projects were going on every afternoon,
many of them being led‘by gifted local peOple.

In addition, new features of the congress this
year were the three one-day institutes. Each insti-
tute was attended by about 100 delegates, and con—
sisted of one and one-half hours of activities ses-
sions, led by specialists; a luncheon meeting with
an excellent speaker; followed by another one and
a half hours of activities and an hour of discussion.
Monsignor Luigi G. Ligutti, executive secretary
of the National Catholic Rural Life Conference,
who addressed the church recreation luncheon,
made a plea on Monday for church-sponsored rec-
reation which would enable the individual to inter—
grate the recreational phase of his life with other
aspects, in the capacity of participant rather than
spectator, in order to combat what he called
“recreational illiteracy” throughout the world. He

362

cautioned that dependency upon others, for spec-
tator entertainment, might lead to dependency
upon the state in other aspects of life, a general
feeling of “let someone else do it.”

On Tuesday, Dr. Carl R. Taylor, head of the
Division of Farm Population and Rural Life,
United States Department of Agriculture, ad—
dressed leaders from rural areas, saying, “Love
of beauty is not weak and sentimental; enjoyment
of play is not childish. Rather, true recreation is a
creative experience.” He declared that children
should be taught its techniques and values.

The Wednesday luncheon guests, of the Small
Town Recreation Institute, listened to Dr. A. F.
Wileden, rural sociologist of the University of
Wisconsin. Dr. Wileden stressed the need for a
more positive emphasis in the field of recreation,
and pointed out the importance of turning our
attention, as recreation peOple, to the small com-
munity—to help in the development of strong local
communities in our society.

Among special meetings, one full day was set
aside for a meeting of chief executives of munici-
pal park and recreation agencies, in which they
might have an opportunity to thrash out profes—
sional, technical problems of the organization and
administration of public recreation programs.
Great satisfaction in the meeting was expressed
by those who attended. An afternoon was devoted
to “Polio and the Community Recreation Pro-
gram,” “Community Observances of Special
Days,” “Girls’ Clubs.” Other groups which con-
vened, holding their own meetings, included wom—
en recreation executives, the Veterans of Foreign
Wars committee on 1949 national softball and
marbles rules, the United States Public Parks

\ Tennis Association. In addition to the National

Recreation School Alumni Association luncheon,
the American Recreation Society held their tenth
annual business meeting and luncheon, at which
George Hjelte was the principal speaker. V. K.
Brown was elected president for the coming year,
and new fellowship awards were made.

Congress at Play

Singing at the general sessions of the congress
is a traditional thing. This year, cooperation with
the local community was evidenced even here,
when spirited renditions of old favorites were led
by local and midwestern leaders.

At the opening session in the delightful Joslyn
Memorial auditorium, delegates .were treated to
the singing of the Iowa Rural Women’s Chorus,
as a demonstration of one of the outstanding lei-
sure—time programs in that part of the country.

; . I RECREATION

There are now seventy county choruses within the
state, with many farm women singing fine music
under able leadership. This really thrilling pro~
gram is made possible through the Extension De-
partment of the Iowa State College. The women
are members because they love to sing, and they
drive many miles to rehearsals after a long day’s
work in their farm homes. Every year these
groups travel to district and state festivals, and
each county chorus sings at many local meetings.
Music has become a real force in many homes be—
cause of this program, and the influence and value
of the choruses cannot be measured. This is recre—
ation in the highest sense.

After the session on Monday evening, delegates
took off their coats and really “went to town” when
our old friend Ed Durlacher, director of square
dances for the New York City Park Department,
took over the ballroom and promptly started the
huge crowd at “swingin’ on down.”

After this warming up, everybody turned out,
on Tuesday evening at the City Auditorium, for a
demonstration—in costume—by the Lincoln Coun-
cil of Folk and Square Dance Clubs, followed by
general square dancing for all. More than 150
dancers came from Lincoln, and other local square
dance groups joined what turned out to be a color-
ful and gay affair. Ed Durlacher opened the cere—
monies with a grand march which filled the whole
auditorium, and which was impressively led by
Tom Rivers, secretary of the congress, and Mar-
garet Hickey, of the Ladies’ Home Journal. After
the first few dances and awarding of costume
prizes, Mr. Durlacher turned the occasion over to
local square dance callers. Sets were broken up so
that each included both local dancers and congress
delegates—the former being asked to help the
visitors through the more unfamiliar dances. Dele-
gates, however, rose nobly to the occasion, and
stepped out with such vigor that a spectator with
a bird’s eye view could find no “struggling” lag-
gards among them. The local press said, “Never
saw so many people have so much fun in the old
place . . . Boy, what a beating the floor of the old
City Auditorium took 1” This affair was especially
staged for the congress by the Business and Pro—
fessional W'omen’s Club of Omaha, and to them
we owe our congratulations and thanks.

On Wednesday afternoon, tours were arranged
for those who wanted to see Boys’ Town and other
local points of interest; while the evening, after
the general session, was devoted to ballroom danc-
ing which started off with a grand march and in-
cluded so many “mixers” that all formality was
dropped before it even started. Joy Wheeldon,

NOVEMBER 1948

recreation director of Johannesburg, South Africa,
taught a South African dance, involving a circle
formation and much moving of the shoulders. Durd
ing the next few minutes of authentic atmOSphere,
the Fontenelle ballroom was filled with the rhythm
of the jungle.

Gm

Industrial - Conference

The special Industrial Recreation Conference,
held during the first two days of the week, was
attended by representatives of many of the coun-
try’s leading industries, among them—Chrysler,
Ford, General Motors, Allis—Chalmers, Pillsbury
Mills, railroad and airline companies, chambers of
commerce, as well as by representatives from man-
ufacturern associations and labor groups, and com—
munity recreation departments.

The spirit of these meetings, which were well-
attended, was in keeping with that of the entire
congress. At the first session, O. L. Allman, di-
rector of industrial relations, Associated Industries
of Missouri, St. Louis—as principal speaker-—
started the ball rolling by talking on the subject
of the recreation program’s effect upon relations
among employees, between employees and manage-
ment, and labor unions and management.

At the Tuesday luncheon, Ray Kooi, supervisor
of employee recreation at the Ford Motor Com-
pany, was the main Speaker. Mr. Kooi gave a
vivid description of their many activities, other
than athletic and physical activities, which might
be included in any employee recreation program.
Interesting, among several that are unique, was an
account of what is being done in the Ford company
to help employees with their vacation plans.

Other conference meetings considered such top-
ics as: Selling Employee Recreation to Manage-
ment; Personnel Standards for Industrial Recrea-
tion Directors; Building Employee Recreation
Programs; Recreation Programs for Plants Over
2,000 Employees; Recreation Programs for Plants
Under 2,000 Employees; Interplant Industrial
Recreation Associations. Round table discussions

ORDER YOUR PROCEEDINGS NOW!

Because it is impossible to summarize in RECREATION
all of the interesting sessions of the congress, the full
proceedings—including addresses, summaries of dis-
cussions and a report of the industrial sessions—have

been gathered together and sent to the press. This
storehouse of valuable ideas and material will be avail-
able sometime in January, but, as only a limited num-
ber of copies are being printed, we advise that orders
be sent at once to the National Recreation Association,

315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y. Price: $2.25.

 

363

covered such problems as those of: organization,
administration, finance, family activities, special
events, activity programs, women’s activities, union
recreation programs. In reference to the last topic,
John Strobel, recreation director of the Wisconsin
State Federation of Labor, stated that he could
see no reason why labor unions could not cooper-
ate with other employees in the conducting of an
employee recreation program.

Next Congress

Announcement of the time and location of next
year’s congress was made, thus giving community
recreation departments ample time for planning.

The Board of Directors has selected New Orleans
as the meeting place, September 12-16, 1949. In
extending an invitation to all, Mr. Rivers said:
“Many factors were considered in making this de-
cision. It has been twenty years since a congress
has been held in the deep south. There have been
extensive developments in that area—one of the
most outstanding during the last eighteen months
being that in one of America’s most picturesque
cities, under the dynamic leadership of the Honor-
able deLesseps Morrison, young and progressive
mayor of New Orleans . . . We want everyone
here to be with us, and each of you to bring an
additional delegate!”

 

Basketball Shootihg Competition

THE BOYS AND girls were excited, and very
proud. The mayor of the town, a group of

county executives and a city newspaper repre-
sentative were formally presenting awards between
halves of the big game. Twenty-four young basket
shooters, under twenty—one years of age, were
lined up, awaiting their turn—they were the cham-
pion shooters of Erie County. This scene took
place in the Memorial Auditorium, Buffalo, New
York, in January 1947.

While the above event was most satisfying to
the twenty-four young people involved, it actually
was the result of a much more important project
to those interested in youth recreation in that
county. To them the salient fact was that during
November and December 9,302 girls and boys of
this county had taken part in these qualifying com-
petitions. As that is quite a number of young
people, it‘ does not seem out of place to examine,
in some detail, the form of competition which at—
tracted so many.

The “1947 Youth Basketball Shooting Cham-
pionships of Erie County” were the goals of the
contestants. It all came about this way:

In the early fall of 1946,  Y. Cameron, Jr.,
Director of the Erie County Youth Bureau, was
seriously pondering the type of competition he

364

might suggest to assist organizations in conduct-
ing a program for the youth of the county. The
type of activity desired was one which would be
simple and easy enough to permit its promotion
by municipalities and local organizations with a
minimum of effort and expense. It also would be
one which would offer Erie County’s young people
an organized, wholesome activity which they could
enter as individuals, without organizing a team;
one in which the possibility of injury, because of
lack of physical conditioning, would be practically
zero. It would be a competition which would keep
them interested and busy; one in which even minor
deformities would not prevent participation; and,
lastly, one which would enable them to have the
chance of winning public recognition and awards.
Basketball shooting, along the lines described be-

low, seemed to be the answer, and so contest rules
were drawn up which stated:

1. Competition will be held in six separate
groups: junior girls and boys under sixteen; inter-
mediate girls and boys under nineteen; and older
girls and boys under twenty-one, all ages as of

January 31, 1947.

2. An official attempt consists of the following
fifteen tries, to be taken in the order shown:

RECREATION

None, one or two (at most) practice shots from
line one, clearly indicated by the contestant, in ad—

vance, that they are to be practice shots.
Five shots from line one, (the free throw line)

counting one point for each basket made;

Two shots from line two;
Two shots from line three;
Two shots from line four, counting two points for

each one made;
Two shots from line five;

Two shots from line six.
A contestant’s score shall be the total of points

made in one ofiicial attempt.
3. In the event of a tie, contestants so tied will

take one shot in order (with no additional practice
shots) from each of the six lines, scoring as indi—
cated above.

4. The manner of shooting is optional—one
hand, two hands, underhand, overhead, from the
chin, and so on. All shots are permissible as long

 

as the contestant, having declared “ready to shoot,”
takes no steps, nor touches on or over the specified
lines until the ball has left his hands. A jump shot
is permissible.

The organizational set-up within the county was
planned so that almost every young person could
take part. All youth organizations, public or pri-
vate, by means of publicity, were invited to hold a
community contest. These contests, organized in
whatever manner a particular organization desired,
were held during November and December, with
a contestant having the right, as far as the local
promoters’ time and fairness to other contestants
would allow, to make as, many official attempts as
he wished during these two months. His best offi-
cial record counted as his score. Between the fif—
teenth and twenty-eighth of December, each win—
ner of each group participated in the respective
municipal championships, held once only, at a pre-
publicized time and place. Then on January fourth,
in the State Teacher’s College gymnasium, all of
the municipal champions (first, second and third
in each group from Buffalo) competed in quarter

NOVEMBER 1948

county qualifiers. Eliminations brought down to
four, in each of the six groups, the number of eli—
gibles for the championship finals.

The schedule of finals—Intermediates on Janu-
ary ninth; Juniors, January eleventh; and Olders
on January eighteenth— was held between the
halves of the college doubleheader basketball
games, at Buffalo’s Memorial Auditorium before
an audience of 4,000 to 9,800 people. The follow-
ing table shows the extent of the participation:

Number

Municipal

Champions
Number in Quarter County

Number Community County Prize

Municipality Contestants ’ Contests Qualifiers Winners
Buffalo

City 5,438 44 17 7
Lackawanna

City 2,117 21 6 5
West Seneca

Town 884 3 4 2
Clarence

Town 151 2 4 0
Lancaster

Town 149 2 5 1
Tonawan'da

Town 142 3 4 1
Hamburg

Town 131 1 2 0
Amherst

Town 112 3 4 1
Aurora

Town 89 2 4 2
Cheektowaga

Town . 75 2 5 3
Alden ~

Town 14 1 4 2

9,302 84 59 24

The spirit of cooperation 'which‘ existed among
the recreation directors, public and private clubs,
and private citizens in handling these promotions
was excellent, and was evident, too, among the
approved basketball officials in that area, the Buf-
falo State Teacher’s College, and the Canisius Col—
lege Athletic Association. The Buffalo Evening
N ews also deserves commendation for its excel—
lent assistance in sponsoring the awards. Each
group community contest winner was awarded an
Even-ing N ews-Erie County Youth’ Bureau win—
ner’s certificate; each municipal champion received
a municipal championship certificate; and the win—
ners of first through fourth places in each of the
six final groups were presented solid gold lapel
pins, depicting a basketball on the rim of the basket
in relief, and engraved with position won, year,
and the individual’s initials. In addition, the six
individual champions received attractive jackets.

Credit for actually inventing a new game is not
claimed by the Erie County Youth Bureau direc-
tor. He readily admits that he merely put a com-
bination of several informal practice games such
as “50,” “21 follow up,” the old style “foul—shoot-
ing contest,” into worded rules, very successfully.

365

 

The Youngsters Celebrate

Invitations—Cut out little shapes, suggestive of
Thanksgiving——turkeys, pilgrim hats, pumpkins
and the like; or use birch bark or birch bark paper
for a two-page invitation and pin it together with
a small arrow or a split stick.

Decorations—Design large, colorful turkeys
made from cardboard; huge pumpkins, a horn
of plenty. Place cornstalks, decked with bright
orange bows, in the corners of the room. Use
effective lights, fall leaves and flowers; an impro-
vised Plymouth Rock and large sketches on card-
board cut—outs of the Mayflower, Pilgrim and In-
dian scenes.

A costume party always adds extra fun to the
festivities, so suggest that the boys and girls wear
appropriate Thanksgiving outfits.

Refreshments—The food to be served depends
upon the time of day and the age of the children.
Cider, doughnuts, pumpkin pie are suggestive of
the season. Popcorn balls and apples are equally
appropriate. For a special treat, serve turkey
sandwiches, honey cookies, chestnut ice cream,
candy corn.

Games—These can be of the- active sort and
many old favorites can be varied to suit the occa-
sion. For example, instead of pinning the tail on
the donkey, youngsters can pin the comb on the
turkey; Follow the Leader can be changed to
Turkey Trot; Button, Button can be called Hunt-
ing the Thanksgiving Turkey. A liberal use of
small prizes and favors———such as corn cob pipes
for the boys, and bracelets made of corn for the
girls--—will add much to the success of the enter-
tainment. Try the following:

Turkey Cutting—Each child is given a piece of
brown paper and a pin. He is asked to cut a turkey
from the paper with the pin, and color it with crayons.
The one who has the best turkey when the time is up
is given a little prize.

366

(Save Parties
for Ye Moderne Pilgrims

g/l Thanksgiving N

So Do Teen-Agers and Adults

Invitations—May be written on fruit and vege-
table cut-outs; on paper turkeys; or on cards de-
signed as autumn leaves, with the invitation itself
written according to the queer spelling and expres-
sions of the sixteenth century.

Decorations—Mask the lights with cardboard
lanterns decorated with turkey silhouettes. Have
orange paper streamers radiating from a bunch of
colorful balloons in the center of the party room.
Along the streamers, hang cut-outs of pumpkins,
ears of corn, leaves and other appropriate sym-
bols of the season. Arrange stacks of cornstalks
in corners or in large earthenware jars. Bowls of
fruit, nuts, vegetables can lend an atmosphere of
festivity and plenty. Turkey, horn-of-plenty and
Pilgrim motifs can be added in table decorations,
favors or prizes.

Refreshments—~This group will be just as
pleased as the youngsters with the festive foods
mentioned for the children’s party.

Games—Try the following to help make your
party a merry one :

Dramagrams—Divide the guests into two teams.
Each team makes up a list of short quotations, book
titles, slogans and the like. The captains of each side
exchange lists and then one player on each team is
told the name of the first proverb or title. That player
then tries to convey the phrase to his teammates by
acting it out—in pantomime. He holds up his fingers
to indicate the number of words in the phrase, and
members on his side may question him as to whether
it’s a quotation or slogan to which he is referring.
Then the player starts his acting, starting'_at any
word in the phrase and indicating the place of the
word by holding up his fingers. For instance, suppose
the quotation is “Give me liberty or give me death.”
The player holds up seven lingers. Then he holds up
two fingers to indicate the second word and points to
himself. He interprets each word until his teammates
can guess the complete phrase.

RECREATION

Playing Out
Problems in Socio-Drama

A Discussion Method for Older Rural Youths*

HAKESPEARE SAID, “All the world’s a stage and
S all the men and women merely players”; and
each of us constantly proves this point by playing
—£0nsciously or unconsciously—a number of real—
life roles (the father, mother, lover, sweetheart,
the son or daughter, wage earner, church-goer,
and so on) in the complicated drama of living.

Through socio—drama we can watch these roles

as they develop in typical confiict situations. We
can compare our own way of playing a role with
the role-performance of the other members of our
group. How adequate are we in difficult real-life
situations? What new skills and attitudes do we
need to develop, to become effective members of
our own communities, effective citizens in a rep—-
resentative government?

Suggestions for the Use of Socio-Drama

Socio-drama is a discussion method. The basis
of the discussion is an extemporaneous dramatiza-
tion of some problem or real-life situation by mem-
bers of the discussion group.

What Does It Take to Play Socio-Drama?

a. A “Director of Production,” who corresponds
to the discussion leader of a forum group, and
whose job it is to keep the action going spontane-
ously.

b. Participating actors who take the roles re-
quired to play out the situation decided upon.
These actors need not try to be “dramatic,” but
need only to play their roles as realistically as they
have seen them in real life. Of course, a further
responsibility is to develop the conflict as clearly
as possible and to keep the action going until the
director stops them.

c. Participating audience made up of those who
can sympathetically consider the problem being
enacted, who can extend the thinking of the group
by thinking through alternative solutions to the
problem, and who can even “go into action” them-
selves to demonstrate their points of view.

Socio-drama works best with groups of around
twenty-five persons to permit maximum participa—
tion by the audience. Demonstrations may be
given before larger groups.

NOVEMBER 1948

How to Start to Play Socio-Drama?

Some simple illustration might be used to dem-
onstrate the socio-drama method before a new
group—such as a speeder and 'a traffic cop. The
procedure might take the following form:

a. The director asks for a show of hands of
those who would like to own a new automobile.
Two young men and a young lady are asked to
come to the stage.

b. Two chairs are arranged as the front seat of
an auto. One young man is asked to take the
young lady for a ride and point out the new fea—
tures of the automobile, and so forth.

c. As the ride proceeds the second young man
can be tipped off secretly to play the role of a
trafhc cop.

d. The young man driving the car is then en—
couraged to show how fast the auto will go. At
the proper time the traffic cop is signaled to make
his entrance from the rear.

e. The director then encourages an argument.
The argument may be stopped from time to time
to get ideas from the audience. The players may

 

*Reprinted from an adaptation of an outiine developed by
Robert B. Haas, former instructor at Ohio State University High
School. Put out by Ohio State University, cooEerating with the
U. S. Department of Agriculture; Agricultural xtension Service
-—H. C. Ramsower, Director, Columbus, Ohio.

367

be asked to try out the suggestions, or the persons
making the suggestions may be asked to come to
the stage and take over one of the roles. Another
procedure is to reverse the roles (the traffic cop
taking the role of the driver, and so on), especially
when one of the characters is dominant or is
inclined to be “fresh.”

f. Following this demonstration the director can
continue the discussion with questions such as,
“What is the purpose of the traffic officer ?”, “Why
do we need traffic officers P”, “Who hires them?”

The above demonstration need not take over
ten to fifteen minutes. It then can be followed by
playing out real-life situations. The director may
have the audience help decide what characters or
role-types are needed to enact the situation, and
how each role might be played so that the conflicts
are clear.

Summary of Techniques Used in Socio-Drama

a. Actualization—or simply acting out spon-
taneously the roles that are embedded in a partic-
ular situation.

b. Role taking—“taking on” or “carrying” roles
which are required by the situation.

c. Interaction—reacting with the other members
of the cast as you think your role requires.

d. Role reversal—the director may switch two
members of his cast in order to give them insight
into one another’s roles. This is a good test of
role sincerity. '

e. Auxiliary coaching—the director may sug-
gest ways of “pointing up” the conflict to a mem-
ber of his cast during the performance; or the
members of the participating audience may make
suggestions to the role-takers to help them from
time to time.

f. Discussion—of how the different roles were
enacted, of how the different confiicts were solved,
of other ways to approach the problem, of other
problems which may be suggested. Such a discus-
sion can be carried on very fruitfully during and
after a socio-dramatic session. Socio-drama can
be used by groups to clarify and test adequacy of
social habits, skills, attitudes, values ——in action.

Situations for Consideration

Under the direction of your director, try to de-
cide what characters or role-types would be needed
to enact some one of the situations below. Try to
decide how each of these roles might be‘ played so
that the conflicts are clear. How would each of
the persons involved think, act, and talk if they
got together and tried to “work things out ?”

a. Jean is an eighteen-year-old girl who was

368

very close to her parents until she overheard them
discussing her boyfriend, Ted, and discovered
that they didn’t care for him at all. Jean is very
fond of Ted, who has asked her to marry him
when she finishes school next summer, and she
finds that she must either reconcile her parents to
Ted or else make the decision to marry him against
their wishes.

b. The young people in a small community have
started a youth group. They meet for a few weeks
at a local church. Even the minister agrees that
social dancing is an appropriate activity for them,
but because of local tradition, he does not feel free
to have them dance at the church. Failing any
other meeting place, the young people decide to
approach the high school principal for the use of
the local school building after hours. The principal
is responsible to a tough school board for all of
his decisions. Many of the board members are
prominent in work at the church, too.

c. Bill works for his father on the farm. He
knows that the war years have been the first finan-
cially easy ones his parents have ever had, and
that every penny of the family money is accounted
for in advance. He gets a moderate allowance
from the profits, but, since he last year chose the
farm as his life’s work, he feels that some more
business-like arrangements should have been made
with his father. For example, sometime he may
want to marry, or to have a car of his own when
he can afford it. Right now both seem impossible.
He does need more allowance, however, because
he has found a girl in whom he is interested.

d. Larry has been working hard to become finan-
cially independent of his parents by raising and
selling some livestock of his own. While he is
having a late breakfast with his father and mother
on Sunday morning, that nasty neighbor storms
in to accuse Larry of letting akbull get out and
destroy his vegetable garden. Neither Larry nor
his parents have ever met the neighbor, who keeps
vicious dogs around his place and discourages
visitors of any kind.

Groups should be able to describe many other
real-life situations similar to those above.

“The art of the theatre is the oldest of the arts
known to man. Before ever there were written
records, or pictures, or even the beginnings of
speech, individual prehistoric men demonstrated
to their fellows how they had stalked or been
stalked by their natural enemies and how, in the
encounters which followed, they had emerged vic-
torious. . . .”—Herschel L. Bricker in Our Thea-
tre Today.

RECREATION

 

Miniature Movies For Moppets

Amy Elizabeth Jensen

NE OF MY hobbies is the making and collect-
0 ing of tiny things of many kinds—furniture,
outdoor settings, novelties, toys and dolls—and
using them to make colored movies or series of
stills for children. Youngsters are delighted with
these entertainments, for they are enchanted with
anything of Lilliputian proportions.

The themes for these pictures are seasonal activ—
ities, nursery rhymes, original and other poetry,
fairy tales and other stories, variety shows, sports
events, and other subjects which are of interest
to juveniles.

Most of the pictures are exposed indoors, using
tabletop scenes; but some are taken outside. To
secure the proper perspective for those taken in-
side, a long, wide, unfinished table is used. Sets

 

 um! _, I, .  . , 
.u.  a, ‘ . . .I . .. . ' '
' - . n- ' .. . I a  -.
.. . ., _.  ‘ .1. ..
r. -; a" -:" r 1- - 3

, .. <-.-.. '-?E.-»:"I- - 1-   a  - .
Tami-A~w¢.~a¢&m_...mw”ié2i'w-mmsémfm" " "' ’ a ’ ’ " 5

Pursuit of the hobby of collecting miniature objects
has led to charming entertainment for many children.

NOVEMBER 1948

are made from discarded articles of many kinds,
and from easy—to—obtain, inexpensive material.
Mountains are constructed of painted clinkers;
twigs with artificial leaves look like real trees;
in some scenes the flowers are tiny real ones, while
in others they are cut from old boutonnieres; grass
is real or is made from green roofing paper or
dyed sawdust; salt, soap chips and artificial flakes
make snow; water from a hidden hose forms a
running brook. Buildings are toy ones, or are
made of cardboard cartons or plywood. Wind-up,
mechanical, jointed, or electric toys are sometimes
used—boats, trains, automobiles, animals, and so
forth. For interiors, plywood furniture is built to
scale, and rooms are complete with Turkish towel
rugs, curtains, and accessories fashioned from cos-
tume jewelry and other novelties.

Using a little ingenuity, weather and other ef-
fects are easily created. An electric fan makes a
windstorm, and when artificial snow is thrown
into one, a raging blizzard is provided. Water
from a Sprinkling can furnishes a shower. Crum—
pled tissue paper burning in a fireplace gives the
feeling of cozy warmth, and real smoke pouring
from a chimney gives a house a lived—in appear-
ance. Revolving stages and moving platforms are
used fdr vaudeville shows.

Tom Thumb actors are jumping jacks, mechani-
cal figures, jointed dolls and pliable wire—bodied
ones. Motion for these is obtained by manipula-
ting slender wire and strings attached to them,
and also by altering the positions of the body parts
and by moving the dolls themselves.

369

World at Play

 

New General Extension Division project of University
of Florida is leadership training course-—-here con-
ducted by Anne Livingston, NRA training Specialist.

Stamp Collectors, Please Note !—High1ights
of American history, portrayed in colorful poster
stamps, is the objective of the Florida Historical
Research Institute. The initial series, featuring
twenty-four Florida poster stamps, is planned as
an attraction of Florida History Week, December
5 to 11, first anniversary of the official opening of
the new Everglades National Park. Each year’s
stamps will supplement previous productions, and
the plan to expand the program nationally opens
an opportunity for collectors to compile a pictorial
history of absorbing interest.

The Florida Institute is now offering charter
memberships at one dollar, which will include the
first issue of twenty-four stamps and an album
with related research data for each scene pictured.
Similar institutes will be planned for other states.

Something to See—Here’s a novel addition
to your sightseeing list—the Biltmore Industries
of Asheville, North Carolina, known as “the larg—
est handweaving establishment in the world.” A
visit to Biltmore Industries will enable you to
see every process of dyeing, carding, spinning and
handweaving. You may even be able to see hun-
dreds of yards of homespun hung on the tentering
fences in the sun—a procedure followed for cen-
turies in Scotland. Guides escort guests through
the shops every half hour.

370

A Creative Christmas—The products of Kris
Kringle’s workshop—both good and bad—are
again under the strict observation of the Commit—
tee for Better Playthings—an organized group of
leading child study experts, educators, psychia-
trists and pediatricians. These experts have inau—
gurated a campaign to make this a “creative rather
than a gadgety Christmas,” and are serving as a
board of review, to point up for the press and child
study groups significant trends in toys, books and

record fields which are contributing to the play
life of the child.

Writing Contest—The American Technical
Society announces its fiftieth anniversary textbook
manuscript contest to encourage the preparation of
text and reference material for students above the
elementary school age. The subject matter should
encourage education for adjustment to life and
help young people to acquire information, skills,
habits, attitudes which will lead to living fully and
making profitable contributions to society. Readers
of RECREATION who enter the contest might use
as a subject, education for a recreation profession.
Anyone may submit a manuscript to the Society
before December 31, 1949 to be eligible. For fur-
ther information, write to the American Technical
Society, Drexel Avenue at 58th Street, Chicago
37, Illinois.

RECREATION

Publications
and Your Recreation Job

LL WISE AND alert recreation executives and
~ leaders are aware of the vital importance of

the use of publications in the planning and carry—
ing out of a well-rounded recreation job. They
recognize publications as essential tools in get-
ting that job done to the best of their ability.
They realize that good use of printed materials is
well worth the careful thought and planning en—

tailed.
Such publications can be classified into two cate—

gories:

I. Those which bring to us, as recreation work-
ers, the latest thinking on the why’s and where-
fore’s of recreation, its philosophy, new methods
of work, information as to things that are being
done in other communities, new administration,
organization and program ideas, news of our fel-
low workers;

2. Those publications which we ourselves put
out as a part of our recreation program.

a) To interpret and promote this program among
citizens of our community, visitors, those national or-
ganizations whose cooperation we may desire. Such
publications might take the form of reports, guides,
promotion leafiets, periodic publications in the form
of news sheets, and so on.

b) For the use of fellow recreation staff members
or for volunteer leaders, suggesting outlines of work,
programs, how-to-do materials, new program ideas,
manuals, guides, inspirational materials.

c) In cooperation with a group of constituents pub-
lishing material as a part of a program activity—
printed programs, news sheets, instruction sheets,
manuals.

d) In preparation for outside publication——such as
books, pamphlets, magazine articles on various aspects
of our work.

In the case of all materials, whether put out by
ourselves (or by others in our department) or re-
ceived from other experienced workers in our own
or allied fields—there is one point at which many
of us break down. That is, at the point of effec-
tively using the materials ready to our hand. Many

NOVEMBER 1948

 

of us, for instance, subscribe to national publica-
tions in our field-publications put out for the
express purpose of helping us. Just as the doctor
subscribes to the Journal of the American Medical
Association, and turns to it for latest treatments,
diagnoses, symptoms, scientific deve10pments, news
of new fields of medicine, which are so important
to him, so we subscribe to the periodicals of our
own national organization, or of other national
organizations in the recreation field. Each month
these materials come to our desks and peer at us
among our morning mail. What happens then?
What do we do with them?

Are we “too busy” to bother with them at the
moment and do we put them aside for future refer-
ence? Do they become buried under papers, in a
drawer, forgotten, never again to see the light of
day?

Or—are we alert to the fact that they may con—
tain ust that bit of information or suggestion that
we need at the moment; that they may carry good
ideas for the new crafts group, playground pro-
gram, and so forth; that other members of our
staff and volunteers need the new ideas, help,
stimulation and fresh thinking which these pieces
of material carry; that they may contain just the
right words to help win the support of hard-
headed Jasper Jones on the citizens’ committee?

Do other staff members see them? A few copies
of RECREATION, for instance, casually left about
the recreation center, might stimulate interest in
new program activities, help people see what other
communities are doing in recreation; while a few
copies taken to a committee meeting might help
you sell a new program interest, a new organiza-
tional set—up, an idea for new equipment, and so
on. A few good photographs of teen-agers square
dancing, clipped and tacked on a bulletin board in
a prominent spot, might show your young people
that teen-agers in other communities think square
dancing is pretty “hot stuff.” How many copies

371

of the magazine do you receive, and how do you
use them?

Some additional ways of putting publications to
work are: to display them conspicuously in a spot
where they are accessible to all leaders; to have
it known throughout your department the date of
their receipt and that they are available to all—
staff and volunteers alike; to use them as program
stimulators for specific activities groups; to go
through them carefully for your own information
and to make a list of the pertinent and useful arti—
cles and materials received and post this on a bul-
letin board, prominently placed; to take them with
you to committee meetings of either citizens or
staff, call attention to them, pass them around, let
them work for you. Look through your magazine
or bulletin files for help with specific projects—
festivals, plays, community celebrations, parties,
seasonal ideas.

One way of keeping your staff (and yourself)
on their toes is to see that all of you are familiar
with all the latest developments, accomplishments,
methods, thinking, in your field. Don’t work in a
vacuum; don’t isolate your staff from those things
which will help them be better staff members, do
better jobs, stimulate their thinking. What would
be your opinion of the physician who was ignorant
of the latest treatment of cancer, the new discov—
eries regarding polio, the stand of the AMA on
current questions important not only to the profes-
sion but to the layman as well?

In regard to the materials which you yourselves
put out—those leaflets that seemed such a good
idea at the time, that manual written and issued
by the new hobby group, that weekly news sheet
that the teen-agers are so proud of—how are they
used? Do you carefully plan their promotion and
distribution for the purposes of interpreting your
program, recruiting new participants of laymen
and citizens whom you have not reached, winning
new people to your support, passing on program
ideas to others? Have you ever encouraged volun-
teers, skilled in some particular hobby, to share it
with other members of their group, or other
groups, via printed suggestion sheets, how—to-do
materials? Do you encourage groups to undertake
such projects on a cooperative basis? Have you
realized the program possibilities of such aproject?

Content

In putting out publications of our own, how do
we go about it, anyway? Too many of us embark
upon such an undertaking knowing little or noth-
ing about it, taking too little time for careful
thought and planning, with the result that these

372

publications too often bear witness to our lack of
experience, too often fall short ,of filling the pur-
pose for which they were intended, too often are
unattractive, ineffective—a waste of time, effort
and money.

Important steps in planning are:

I. Careful consideration of purpose: in what
way will the publication be used, what is it for?

2. Careful consideration of audience; for whom
is it intended: educational and cultural background
of audience; age group; staff-members, adminis—
trative or program; volunteers; participants in
program, citizens’ committees, audience knowing
nothing of recreation, local or national audience?

3. Deciding how to make it most useful:

a) Consideration of content—what is most needed?

b) Presentation—shall it be ABC’s or advanced, in-
formal or formal, gay or dignified; will it beimpor-
tant to include suggestions as to how-to-use this ma-
terial; clarity, simplicity, practicality?

    

‘~. _,.__.——u-
“-I---’
\-----I

‘---

   

   

I

    

 

m,

4. Form: This includes format, design, layout;
use of type versus photo-offset, versus mimeo-
graphing; problems of illustration, engraving. If
you have definite ideas as to how your material
should look, try your hand at doing your own lay-
out. It’s fun. However, it will save time, head-
aches, and often money, to talk it over with your
printer first. You’ll find him liberal with good
suggestions, at no cost to you. Also, he will ad-
vise you as to comparative costs of printing, photo—
offset and so on. Make up a rough dummy, actual
size, to show him—indicating placement of text
and illustrations. Beware of presenting too much
solid reading matter. This scares readers away.
Break up your text with white space, subheads,
art work; don’t crowd too much on one page. Be
sure to place your department identification in a
prominent spot. Remember that if photographs
are to be used, they must be marked for reducing
or for blowing up to proper size. This should be

. done as the layout is made up, and not afterwards.

Do not send layout and photographs to a printer
without first dealing with this problem; the pic-
tures may be the wrong proportion for the page
and thus not usable.

RECREATION

If you wish to have the help of a professional
artist for your layout, talk it over with him care-
fully; be sure that he understands what you want.

5. Distribution: Plan your distribution of the
material as far in advance as possible. Groups to
receive it are, of course, determined by content

and purpose of the publication.

a) If for promotion purposes, some of the ways of
distributing are: through civic groups, local organiza-
tions, PTA’s, church groups. Place a table of folders
in a prominent place in your recreation center, with a
poster above it, using challenging questions or quotes
from the folder. Use art work from the folder; look
for talent in your center and ask your art groups to
make arresting posters to display, with a supply of
folders, in other places in town—the public libraries,
banks, post office, bus and railroad terminals, stores,
neighborhood meeting places, offices—when possible.
Ask the cooperation of local public utilities companies
in enclosing a leaHet or flier in their monthly bills.
In announcing a playground program, some depart-
ments have prepared printed announcements to be
passed out to children in school on the last day be-
fore summer vacation. Be sure to have your depart-
ment name and address on every folder.

b) Publications may also be put out as a program
project. Use among other groups as a program stimu-
lator; distribute to local organizations as a recruiting
device; explore your community for folks who would
be interested in receiving such material; post on bul-
letin boards; let the group responsible for the project
plan ways of distribution among their friends. Get the
editors of your local papers to write up these projects,
and include an announcement that copies are available
upon request. Give members of the group public rec-
ognition for their efforts. Give a copy of the material
to every volunteer.

When promoting some particular project, such
as a new swimming pool, a new playground or new
program, it is a good idea to start a special bulletin
board in your center, with clippings of all sorts on
the subject. Encourage different recreation groups
and clubs, and others who drop into the center, to

contribute further clippings from newspapers,
magazines, and so on.

MULTI-LAMINATED

DIVING BOARDS

Ask for

Free Trial Offer

N. B. MADSEN

2019 N0. Keystone Avenue.
CHICAGO 39. ILL.

' NOVEMBER 1948

 

Use printed materials in your volunteer training
groups and staff meetings, and encourage their use
as a part of in-service training.

There are many ways of making publications
useful in developing a well-rounded recreation
program. Have you tried? (Editor’s note: REC-
REATION would welcome brief accounts of how you
use and distribute materials. Won’t you let us
hear from you?) '

Christmas Gifts
M E M CI

TO ALL THOSE FRIENDS INTERESTED IN
RECREATION, AND TO THOSE WHOr
SHOULD KNOW SOMETHING ABOUT THE
RECREATION MOVEMENT:

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
3l5 Fourth Avenue' New YorI: IO. N. Y.

SUBSCRIPTION CLUB RATES SINGLE COPY
$3.00 $2.50 35c

headquarters for .

I»
z
o
a V
J ,
J “V
~ 9-.“ o
,.

'V 5- A

 

Recreation News

Surplus Play Equipment

The War Assets Administration has announced
the availability of about $150,000 worth of surplus
athletic, game room and playground equipment for
free distribution (except for handling costs) un—
der the provision of Public Law 652. This mate-
rial consists of 100,000 dart games; 78,000 back-
gammon games; 60,000 checker games, and 6,500
parchesi games. Also available is about $25,000
worth of sports equipment, consisting of varied
items in small quantities, as well as 1,600 head pro—
tectors for boxing and 1,400 training bags. States
and their political subdivisions and non-proiit or—
ganizations are eligible to receive this material.

The distribution is being handled by Sports
America, Incorporated, and requests for equip—
ment should be sent to its nearest regional chair—
man. On the list of the company’s chairmen are:
Ed Danforth, Atlanta Journal, Atlanta, Georgia;
Lou N iss, Brooklyn Eagle, Brooklyn, New quk ;
Jack Carberry, Denver Post, Denver, Colorado;
George Barton, Minneapolis Tribune, Minneapolis,
Minnesota.

Bogota’s First Playground

Bogota, Colombia, has its first modern play—
ground. It’s a gift from Professor Salvatore P.
Lucia, of the University of California, who felt
that there were too many children wandering in
the streets with no means of diversion. The pro-
fessor is a member of a mission of United States
scientists visiting the city and Medellin, under the
auspices of the Unitarian Service Committee. His
gift will be used as a model for other playgrounds
to be built throughout the country.

Winter Sports Thrill

Aero-skijoring—a new winter sports thrill—has
been discovered by Middlebury College skiers in

374

Vermont. Only the most proficient hickory slat
users should attempt this past—time, however, since
the skier travels iifty—five to sixty-five miles an
hour while holding a rope hanging from 'a low—
flying plane. Last year, some runs were made on
Lake Champlain and experts found that the best ‘
time to participate is after a fresh snowfall.

Jersey Federation Gets Results

After a twelve-year battle in the legislature, the
New Jersey Wildlife Federation—an affiliate of the
National Wildlife Federation—this year was able
to obtain the endorsement of a bill making striped
bass (rockiish) a game fish in the waters of the
state. The Federation also sponsored a bill pro-
viding for a special season for hunting deer with
bow and arrow, and defeated two bills which were
introduced in the New Jersey legislaturew—one
which would have required the registration of all
firearms owned in the state, and the other which
would have placed fish and game wardens under
the state police.

Columbia’s General Speaks

More than 1,200 students of Columbia Univer-
sity’s undergraduate college for men gave hearty
cheers to General Dwight D. Eisenhower during
a campus meeting when he assured them that he
considered the expansion of the college recreation
facilities one of his first duties as president of the
university. ,

The General said: “The day that goes by when
you don’t have some fun is not only unnecessary,
but un-Christian. If you don’t have it, you are not
being true to yourself.” He'stated that a student
center on the campus, a new gymnasium, and the
improvement of Baker Field are the most impor-
tant needs of Columbia at the present time. He
promised he would work toward their realization.

RECREATION

 

Permanent Ice Skating [links

and Their Use

as Year-Bound Recreation Facilities

Douglas G. Miller

we.er YEARS AGO the recreation department
Tin Newburgh, New York, began experiment-
ing with the construction of outdoor ice skating
rinks and learning the methods to be employed in
building ice. Various types of rinks were tried on
tennis courts and athletic field grounds, and we
learned, by “trial and error,” the correct ways of
applying water to produce perfect results. The
recreation department soon became aware of such
basic factors in rink and ice construction on earth
surfaces as: that the ground must be level; several
inches of frost must be in the earth before fiooding
begins; the sides of the rink must be leakproof;
water should be applied by the hand—hose method
and each layer of water allowed to freeze before
applying the next coat.

The most successful of Newburgh’s temporary
rinks was an eighth-mile track, constructed with
wood sidewalls banked with earth. This rink was
located on the athletic field, necessitating erection
and removal of the facilities each year.

In 1933, however, plans were drawn for a per-
manent‘ice skating area and the project got under-
way in 1934. The rink was designed to provide a
competitive sports program of speed skating and

NOVEMBER 1948

hockey, in addition to public skating. Each year
since then new improvements have been added
and, at the present time, Newburgh has one of the
finest equipped permanent outdoor ice skating
areas in the United States.

The winter sports area consists of four and one—
half acres of ground and is located in a corner of
a thirty acre park. The main ice track is forty feet
wide and six laps to the mile. The sidewalls are
of concrete and the rink surface is asphalt. The
track was designed in such a manner that a speed
skater is on the official skating line when skating
two feet from the inside curb. The curb markings
are laid out for _all official races and the rink is
ready for competitive speed skating at all times.
An official hockey rink, one hundred feet by two
hundred feet, equipped with Sideboards, is located
in the center area. The rinks are lighted with
fioodlights‘ mounted on twenty-five foot steel poles.
These are spaced every fifty feet and provide per—
fect illumination for night events.

The rink shelter house has seating accommoda-
tions for 500 persons. The building is twenty by
I 56 feet and has comfort rooms, shower baths and
a workroom for the maintenance staff. A public

375

address system provides for indoor and outdoor
announcements and for the recorded music played
during general skating sessions.

Maintenance

In designing the rinks, maintenance work was
given careful consideration. Water supply boxes
were so installed in various locations that only a
minimum of hose has to be handled. The asphalt
bottoms permit flooding the first four inches of
water on the rink; and when this has frozen, skat-
ing can begin. Nightly applications of water by
the hand-hose method provide a continuous,
smooth ice surface, although, at various times, a
four-foot wide ice planer is used to smooth the ice
in place of flooding. We have found that planed
ice is best for speed skating races because the ice
surface remains harder than under ordinary flood-
ing conditions.

We also designed our rinks to reduce the time
lost because of those two arch enemies of the ice
builder—rain and snow. Outlets, built in the
concrete curbs at various points, are closed with
two inch matched boards. When rain begins to
fall, the height of the outlets is lowered to the ice

surface and the rain water drained off. In this.

manner, the surface of the rink can be kept clear
of all but a skim of water, and colder weather will
place the rink back in operation within a few hours
instead of days.

Snow storms not only delay skating but, in addi-
tion, are costly to remove. The design of our
track and our methods of snow removal reduce
these factors to a minimum. A small dump truck
equipped with a hydraulic lift snow plow is used.
The snow blade of the plow can be turned in any
direction; and so the snow is plowed around the
rink in lanes until the rink surface and walks are
clear. In heavy snow storms the plow is kept in
continuous operation, and a four inch fall of snow
can be removed in less than an hour.

Winter Program

One major advantage a permanent rink enjoys
over lakes or ponds is that the number of skating
days can be doubled. Our N ewburgh rinks, open
from one p.m. to ten p.m., are only 125 feet above
sea level, but we average from thirty to fifty actual
days of skating per season. In 1948, 49,200 people
participated in the general skating, competitive
skating, ice hockey and other activities of our out—
door winter program.

Speed skating has been developed by the forma-
tion of the Delano—Hitch Ice Skating Club and
competitive events. The ice skating club holds
weekly races at the track and participates in many
out-of—town meets on weekends. The Middle At-

376

lantic Outdoor Speed Skating Championships are
held each year at the rinks under the auspices of
the Newburgh Lions Club. Over 275 of the best
skaters in the East participate in this live hour
program, run off on a time schedule that averages
three minutes for each event. Excellent organiza‘
tion of the race program plus the advantages of a
rink designed for speed skating makes such events
possible.
Year-Round Recreation Area

The City of Newburgh has invested over $60,000
during the past fourteen years in the construction
of the winter area at Delano-Hitch Recreation
Park. The completion of the project now makes
it possible to plan for a year-round program of
activities in addition to its winter uses. Courts for
badminton, volleyball, basketball, giant checkers,
paddle tennis and shuffleboard can be laid out on
the hard-surfaced ring bottoms. HorseshOe and
bocci courts will be planned on the lawn sections.
The program will continue into the evening hours
since the area is entirely floodlighted; and Special
events on the schedule include roller skating meets
and roller hockey, bicycle races, inter—playground
competitions, boxing exhibitions, drum corps con-
tests, and Halloween celebrations.

PDRTS rampant

in every field of spurs m Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and. Amateur Bus;-
b‘alll and. Softball. m. Universities
Colleges aid-High Schoola'in Mt.-
mcipa . and? industrial Recreation
MaESrcrganoIq‘smiin Sport
équlpmcnt is_ recognized asu‘a hal'
mark .0" quaint}, Idrr.‘ uniraryiné
perfo-‘mance_ . 7

C N‘Zlh‘Th'l ‘IO. OHIO. U. 5. A.

 

RECREATION

J. B. Williams

Retires

PON HIS RETIREMENT, J. B. Williams, for

many years a member of the National Recre-
ation Association field staff, writes to Howard
Braucher, President of the Association:

“My work from the beginning seems to have
been of a pioneering nature. I entered social work
before the term was even born, and when organ-
ized effort and real service to people were emerg-
ing under the general name of Associated Charities.

“Firmly convinced that public responsibility in
the social work field was becoming more important
and really was the next step in its advancement,
I accepted the position of Director of the Public
Welfare Department of the City of Los Angeles,
later consolidated as a city and county department.
This, of course, meant a broadening of opportunity
and responsibility.

“Soon thereafter, World W'ar I came along, and
with it an invitation from the National Recreation
Association to join the staff of War Camp Com-
munity Service. After a brief period as a member
of this staff, I was loaned to the War Department
Commission on Training Camp Activities and be-
came one of its directors, working directly under
Raymond B. Fosdick, chairman of the Commis-
sion. While as a volunteer I had always taken part
in the inauguration of community recreation serv-
ices, these two responsibilities presented my first
opportunities to work officially in the recreation
field on both a private and public basis. After the
war, I joined the staff of the Association, even
though it meant a sacrifice in salary. Thus was
ushered in a period in my career which has brought
real satisfaction.

“From time to time opportunities have come to
me to re-enter the public welfare field, and attrac-
tive offers, at larger salaries, have been presented
in the Community Chest movement. For a period
of eight months, when I was on leave of absence
from the Association, I did act as organizer and
exetutive of the Community Chest of Jacksonville,
Florida, and was asked to. remain permanently.
However, my eXperience on the staff of the Asso-
ciation had developed within me a very strong

NOVEMBER 1948

 

attachment to its work- and a realization of its sig-
nificance; and I therefore declined all such offers.
I am happier today because I have been a member
of the National Recreation Association family of
workers for so long.

“At the beginning of my work with the Associa-
tion, public recreation was still in its early stages,
particularly in the southeast. My first assignment
as district representative took me there, and later
all of my time was given to work in that area.
During these pioneering stages of community rec-
reation, I witnessed a growing appreciation, under-
standing and fine response from city after city to
the efforts of the Association. As I recall, the
people in the various communities seemed to ap-
preciate most our desire to help them discover the
needs for a community recreation program of areas,
facilities and services and, so far as possible, to
meet such needs by adapting and expanding exist-
ing resources rather than advocating a plan defi-
nitely prescribed in advance.

“I shall always have vividly in mind my almost
eight years of continuous service with the National
Park Service of the United States Department of
Interior, ‘on loan’ from the Association. There
was a growing conviction, on the part of the Asso-
ciation, of the important share that the federal gov-
ernment should have in the public recreation move-
ment. Here again is another example of how the
Association was willing to adapt its program to
help interpret the demonstrated principles of the
recreation program to agencies of the government,
and the possibility of their application to their
existing and expanding programs.

377

“At that time, the National Park Service, as a
phase of the Land-Use Program, had under its
jurisdiction about forty-six areas, or more than
500,000 acres, located in the various states for
development as demonstrations for recreation use.
For the first time, cooperation of the National
Park Service with the states in the development of
park and recreation systems was emerging, and
later this working together was made permanent
by federal law. This led to the adoption of a pro-
gram of service to states on the part of the Park
Service, the results of which have been very far-
reaching and in which we have had an opportunity
to make a real contribution. The story of the
sound growth of all these services is a long one,
but today this department is recognized as one of
the outstanding examples of a well-administered
and broad, cooperative program for conservation
and recreation.

“A few years ago, when the Association ex-
panded its nationwide program to include services
to agencies and institutions of state governments,
with resources suitable and valuable 'for recreation,
it pleased me very much. I am glad to have had
the privilege and responsibility of initiating this
particular service, and wish that I might have been
able to continue in this capacity for at least a few
years more.

“I recall that many of the leaders'of state agen-
cies were not then aware of the program of the
Association nor of the objectives and history of the
recreation movement. However, almost 'without
exception, we were cordially received and leaders
welcomed an opportunity for joint consideration
of the values and possibilities of expanding their
own programs. It was soon apparent that cooper-
ation between state agencies was the -most impor—
tant factor in the expanding of existing programs,
and, therefore, this was emphasized from the be-
ginning. The result of our deliberations seemed
always to demonstrate that the creation of new
agencies was not always necessary; and, increas-
ingly, ways of working together became dominant
in their thinking and actions. I am glad to say that
this included not only lay leaders serving on
boards, but paid officials as well. There is such a
wide variety in the resources for recreation, avail-
able through these state agencies, that it is quite
apparent that we. are rapidly approaching a period
when the people in every nook and corner of a
state will have increasing opportunities to acquire
recreation skills and to participate with others in
a varied program of recreation activities.

“This is not in any sense an article but rather
a personal message to you on the eve of the cessa—

378

tion of my active participation in the work of the
Association as a member of its staff. In it I have
attempted to express my feeling of gratitude for
the opportunities presented to me to work with the
Association. I hope it is clear that I am thoroughly
convinced of the soundness of the principles and
policies underlying the efforts of the Association
to give guidance to the recreation movement.”

Are You Cooperating?

MERICAN EDUCATION WEEK, November 7-13,
A is a good time to spotlight the importance
of recreation in the happy growth of children, the
development of youth, and the enrichment of adult
life. The opportunities to show these values are
tailormade. If_ you have not made plans this year
for a special program on November 12—topic:
Promoting Health and Safety—why not attend any
community observances with an eye to active par-
ticipation next year?

The sponsors of American Education Week—-
the National Education Association, American Le-
gion, National Congress of Parents and Teachers,
and the United States Office of Education—have
selected Strengthening the Foundations of Free-
dom as the general theme for 1948. They hope
that recreation will be given special recognition on
the days when health, safety, and family life are
highlighted.

The NBA has published two special helps for
use in this connection. One, a ten page leaflet
entitled, Health—an Essential of Freedom, is a
checklist of items under the headings of mental
health, school and community recreation, recrea—
tional facilities, and intergroup attitudes. (Cost—
twenty cents per package of ten.)

The other is a radio script, Wanted—Facilities
for Leisure. (Twenty—five cents a copy.) Both the
script and the leaflet were made available through
the cooperation of the American Association for
Health, Physical EducatiOn, and Recreation.

While the special materials mentioned above are
released for use during American Education Week,
they are suitable all year long. Write to the WEA,
1201 Sixteenth Street Northwest, Washington 6,
D. C., for your c0pies. ’

Two special projects distinguish the AEW ob—
servance: school visitation and educational inter-
pretation. By participating in the program this
year, through attendance at open house and com—
munity meetings, recreation workers may begin
to make early plans for next year.

RECREATION

Home Education

“The child’ s first school is the family.”—Froebel

E ARE LIVING in a materialistic age and, in
W our zeal to have our children develop abil-
ities with reference to material needs, there is
grave danger that we might allow the spirit of
good-natured fun to become stifled. A cheerful
disposition is a greater treasure than much riches.
It helps on every occasion. Besides being a com-
fort to the owner, it is contagious. The child to
whom it belongs is likely to be popular with his
playmates and, in later years—if his character is
as good as his disposition—he usually can be as-
sured of a welcome at any gathering. Employers,
too, appreciate a happy disposition in their employ-
ees. The time to cultivate a happy disposition is
in childhood.

Too many people make the mistake of putting
aside all pleasure as “foolishness” and stressing
only the work, which they believe to be all-impor-
tant. When they do this they are missing one of
the most precious blessings that life offers and an
asset which, if rightly sought, is easiest to obtain.
After the bare necessities of life, what the family
needs most is good, old-fashioned fun. Indeed, we
would not be far wron'gr if we classed fun as one of
the bare necessities.

Don’t cramp childhood. Many children who as-
sociate almost exclusively with older persons never
learn to enjoy themselves and, in later years, they
feel that their childhood was sadly lacking. They
never were children in the true sense of the word.
As adults they usually become the “wallflowers”
at social gatherings. Instead of doing all that is
possible for their own and other people’s enjoy—
ment, they fail utterly to enjoy themselves, and
prove a source of worry to those responsible for
their entertainment. They cannot enter into the
fun, for they have never learned to play.

The subject of amusement is one which we must
take into serious account when rearing a family.
The wise mother provides her children with happy
thoughts, just as she provides them with bread.
She brings laughter and pleasant conversation in-

NOVEMBER 1948

Annie L. Gaetz

to their daily experiences and teaches them to see
a bright lining in many a cloudy situation. The
mother who realizes that it is her privilege to
bring the universe to her children is a many-sided,
wonderful creature. Her family does not live by
material food alone, but also by spiritual and men- ’
tal food provided by her. She could no more al-
low them to stagnate mentally or morally than she
could feed them stale, tasteless food.

In order to set what they consider a proper ex-
ample of seriousness before their children, some
parents asume an air of reproof toward any child-
ish glee; this, of course, is a kill-joy to the spirit
of fun. Variety is the spice of life, and we need to
broaden our children’s outlook in every good way.

There are many parents who, by lack of cooper-
ation, encourage their children to seek their fun
away from home. Boys and girls who find their
fun at home are not likely to go badly astray. An
old man who was very fond of young people let
them gather at his home evenings and play cards.
A neighbor said to him, “Don’t you know the
devil is always where cards are?” “Yes,” was the
answer, “that’s why I let the youngsters play in
my home; in that way I can keep an eye on him.”
It need not be an important drawback to children
if they live in out—of—the-way places and have little
opportunity to mingle in society. Such families
can construct their own world and create their
own amusements.

There is a mental development—yes, and a spir-
itual deVelopment—in games and other home
amusement. The remembrance of such childhood
games as blindman’s buff and hide-and-seek re-
main in our memories long after a theatre play or
a public social has been forgotten.

One of the best ways to help our boys and girls
to build well-rounded personalities is to encourage
them to find wholesome pleasure and amusement—
always in happy accord with their duties—under
whatever circumstances they may be placed.

379

in its performance. Coaches throughout the nation know

player confidence—they bring more enjoyment of the

that indescribable “feel” that makes dribbling, passing

In Every

Well planned and executed plays are important to
the winning of basketball games. Equally important

is the ball used by the players and their confidence
that Wilson top quality basketballs not only inspire

game to every team member. That’s because these

superb balls—Wilson Last-Bilt or Top N otch—have

and ball-handling easier. Their perfect roundness

and balance insure accurate fiight and true rebound.

IT’S

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Play. . . .

They’re the last word in basketballs.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

Chicago, New York and other leading cities
(A Wilson 8: Co., lnc. subsidiary)

   

.-
h- he's-I
1“» a-‘-' a
:13."

   
 
 
 

\\ /
TUNE IN! /9\

6th Annual. coost-to-coast broadcast Na-
tional Football League Professional ChompiOn-
ship, sponsored by Wilson and General Mills,
over ABC Network, December 19,1948. Check

newspapers for time and station.

 

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

RECREATION

EMMETT R. GAUHN

EMMETT R. GAUHN, age sixty—one, chairman of
the New York State Youth Commission, died
on Tuesday, October 19th, in Rochester General
Hospital, following a heart attack. In expressing
regret at his death, Governor Thomas E. Dewey
said that Mr. Gauhn had been performing a "tre-
mendous service to the youth of our state.”

Appointed to head the Youth Commission when
it was established in 1945, Mr. Gauhn previously
was Rochester’s W'elfare Commissioner, and also
served as chief milk and food inspector of the city.
He was a former president of the State Public
\Velfare Officials Association.

The Youth Commission’s primary emphasis is
on mobilizing and strengthening the resources of
local communities to prevent the delinquency of
young people. It has aided in the development of
youth bureaus, recreation and education projects
as the core of the local program. However, as
Mr. Gauhn once stated, “The Commission cannot

provide a blueprint for each community in the
state.”

Authors in This Issue

JOSEPH AUSLANDER—VVell-known poet and au-

thor. Poem on page 338.

BILL GOLD—Washington Post reporter. Arti-
cle on page 350.

DR. \VILLIAM C. MENNINGER—Of the Men-
ninger Psychiatric Clinic, Topeka, Kansas. Presi-
dent of the American Psychiatric Association.
Article on page 340.

DOUGLAS G. BliLLER—Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Newburgh, New York. Article on page

375-
“Tops” in

Good Sport
LEARN ABOUT

TRAMPOLINING
Founded by NISSEN—

Creator of America's First

Standard TRAMPOLIN E

A lively playground attraction for all ages.
Write for FREE LITERATURE.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

 

Successful execution of plays, even by experts, depends largely upon balance—or the even ,

distribution of weight of a ball.

Balance, resulting from scientific research and skillful moulding, is another "Best by

Test” reason for specifying Wintark. Official in weight, shape and size —you’ll find them
beautiful, well balanced and TOP PERFORMERS in play and in economy. '

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES (0

NOVEMBER 1948

AMERICA'S FOREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
0 P. O. BOX 71-SOUTH FIFTH STREET-SHAMOKIN. PA.

 

381

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

The Crippled Child, June 1948
Modern Methods Make a World of Play, Char-

lotte Kersten.

Camping for Whom?, Betty Lyle.

American City, June 1948 _

Financing Kansas City’s Parks, L. P. Cooking-
ham.

Greensdale and the Future, Clarence S. Stein.

The “New” Orange Bowl.

A Small City Studies Need of Improvements and
How to Finance Them, Marian C. Manley.

Magazine Digest, July 1948 _
The Corner Gang Makes Messy With Mozart,

Lawrence Collier. . .
Where Kids Get Skipping-Rope Rhymes.

Parents’ Magazine, July 1948
Vacation at Home and Like It!, Jesse Mae Coker.
Fun on a Saturday Night, Betty Massingall Nel-

SOIL

Fishing North Carolina’s Coast, Bill Sharpe. Marina
Publishing House, Box 1411, Wilmington, North
Carolina. Price $.50.

Live Long and Like It, C. Ward Crampton. Public
Affairs Pamphlet Number 139. Public AEairs Com-
mittee, 22 East 38 Street, New York 16. Price $.20.

Recreation Today in Ohio, prepared by John M. Kah-
lert. The Ohio Welfare Council, 135 East Gay
Street, Columbus 15, Ohio. Price $.25.

Enjoy Your Child—Ages 1, 2 and 3, James L. Hymes,
Jr. Public Affairs Pamphlet Number 141. Public
Affairs Committee, 22 East 38 Street, New York 16.
Price $.20.

A Partial List of 16 mm. Film Libraries, compiled by
Federal Security Agency, Office of Education, Divi-
sion of Auxiliary Services, Visual Aids to Educa-
tion Section.

Play Library Service for School and Community—
1948 Catalogue. Play Library Service, Extension
Division, University of South Carolina, Columbia 1,
South Carolina.

National Parent-Teacher, June 1948
There’s Music in the Air, Elva R. Heylmun.

Better Times, May 28, 1948
A Gang Is a Street Club, Nathan E. Cohen and
George Harrison.

Journal of Health and Physical Education, May 1948
Recreation Comes of Age, Charles F. Weckwerth.
A Portable Swimming Pool, Clifford Kasche.

Camping Magazine, May 1948
The Role of the School in Camping, John W.
Studebaker.
Camping Keyed to Spiritual Values.
Summer Camps and Som’re Not, Wes H. Klus-

mann.

Caénping and Intercultural Unity, Stewart G.
ole.

American Camping Association Convention Re-
port.

National Park Concessions—Report of the Conces-
smns Adwsory Group to the Honorable J. A. Krug,

Secretary of the Interior. National Park Service,
Washington, D. C.

The Nation’s Schools, May 1948
Better Practices for Schoolhouse Construction.

Parks and Recreation, June 1948
Is That Sw1mming Pool Worth Modernizing?,
Chauncey A. Hyatt.

National Parent-Teacher, May 1948
Fund Raising in the P. T. A., Sadie B. Gardner.

382

  
    
 

9i "

Books Received

 

American Rural Life, by David Edgar Lindstrom.
The Ronald Press Company, New York. $4.00.

American School and University, The, Twentieth An-
nual Edition. American School Publishing Com-
pany, New York. $4.00.

Art of Hooked-Rug Making, The, by Martha Batch-
elder. The Manual Arts Press, Peoria, Illinois.

$3.75.
Complete Introduction to Photography, by J. Harris

Gable. Harper & Brothers, New York. $3.503
Contract Bridge for Everyone, by Ely Culbertson.
Signet Books, New American Library, New York.

$.25.

Creative Ways for Children’s Programs, by Josephine
Murray and Effie G. Bathurst. Silver Burdett

Company. New York, Boston, Chicago and San
Francisco. $2.80.

Football Line Play, by Bernard Oakes. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $4.00.

Gem Cutting, by J. Daniel Willems. The Manual Arts
Press, Peoria, Illinois. $3.50.

Handbook of Adult Education in the United States,
edited by Mary L. Ely. Institute of Adult Edu-
cation, Teachers College, Columbia University,

New York. $5.00.

Health Teaching in Schools, by Ruth E. Grout. W.
1;. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London,
4.00.

Mountain Laurel, by Anne Emery. G. P. Putnam’s
Sons, New York. $2.50.

Natural Science Through the Seasons, by J. A. Par-
tridge. The Macmillan Company of Canada, Lim-
ited, Toronto. $3.00.

. -.  .  3": ‘  997. . u
. _ If _ ,9... s a. “My” 3me. . a: . __‘

,..—-

..        first Choice
' ,1  for
'   fuery Sport!

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

' :z 

Ill! FINISI' IN 1'!!! F1510 .’
MANUFAC‘IUIINO COMPANY - 5!. tools .1. no.

    

a: {n Vivi, ,5-

 

RECREATION

 

Fun Incorporated——

The Handbook for Teen Centers

By Jeanne Lenton Tracy. Bobbs-Merrill Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

THIS ATTRACTIVELY ILLUSTRATED book is a com-
plete manual on this subject. Written for
teen-agers in clear, informal style, it will be equally
useful to any agency, organization or community
interested in planning a teen center for its young
people.

Suggestions for preliminary planning, budgets,
fund-raising, programs and management are given
in an encouraging and well-organized manner. The
book also contains a bibliography, index, several
“success stories” about existing centers, as well
as sample constitutions and center rules.

Miss Tracy worked for five years in the Sub-
Deb Department of the Ladies’ Home Journal.
Her book is the result of her experiences in work-
ing with teen-agers, supplemented by information
about them from authoritative sources. This is the
first full-Sized book that seems to have been writ-
ten on this subject, and is a real contribution to the
recreation field.

Handbook of Adult Education in the
United States

Institute of Adult Education, 525 West 120 Street,
New York 27. $5.00.

PRESENTING THE POSTWAR picture of adult edu-
cation in America in one volume is not easy.
At best it can be but a partial picture, a cross sec-
tion of its many phases and the many agencies
through which its programs are presented. This
1948 handbook, however, does a remarkably fine
job. Representing two years of devoted effort, it
brings together authoritative and helpful material
—-—the areas of interest, activities and needs of adult

NOVEMBER 1948

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

education; agency resources; and problems of
common concern to all interested in the adequate
development of the movement as a whole.

The book includes two articles by staff members
of the National Recreation Association: Music
as an Educational and Recreational Field for the
Adult, by Gertrude Borchard and The Place of
Recreation in Adult Education, by Robert R.
Gamble.

The Pageant of Our American Heritage

By Percy Jewett Burrell. Published by the author,
26 Marshall Street, Watertown, Massachusetts.

$75-

T WOULD BE difficult to find a community patri-
I otic event that has found more enthusiastic re-
sponse in the hearts of American people than the
tour of the Freedom Train through the land. This
tour has been sponsored by the American Heritage
Foundation. Now, the same foundation suggests
the Pageant of American Heritage as appropriate
for production in those communities which have
been visited by the train. It is also suitable for
other days of civic celebration, such as the Fourth
of July, “I Am An American Day,” and is adapt-
able for schools and organizations. Information as

to production and other rights should be secured
from the author at the above address.

Games for Two

By Albert H. Morehead and Geoffrey Mott-Smith.
John C. Winston Company, Philadelphia. $2.00.

NTHOUGH WE LISTED this book last spring, we
remind you, now, that it would make an ex-
cellent gift for young married couples, college
students, travelers. It includes the latest pointers

on Rummy, Gin Rummy, Bezique, Pinochle and
many others.

383

Children ’3 Book Week

November l4-20, I948

A Treasury of Good Night Stories

Edited by Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publishing
Company, New York. $2.00.

HIS IS A collection of thirty-six stories, some

of which have appeared in Child Life, Jack and
.7 ill, Children’s Activities and other magazines for
children. Parents and storytellers will be pleased
to find that the stories have been timed. They
range from two to eight minutes at the most, and
most of them run between three and five minutes.
They have been selected for tranquility—not a
nightmare in the book!

What Every Young Rabbit Should Know

By Carol Denison, with pictures by Kurt Wiese.
Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. $2.25.

EVERY CHILD FROM two to six years of age
should find this under the Christmas tree! A
delightful story of Mr. and Mrs. Puff-Tail and
their hve small children. The little Puff-Tails
learn to know their friends and enemies by their
tracks in the first snow—and have a great adven-
ture. The illustrations alone are worth the cost of
the book.

Cowboys and Indians

By Kathryn and Byron Jackson. Simon and
Schuster, Incorporated, New York. $2.00.

ACOLLECTION 0F fifty—two stories and rhymes
are included, with over a hundred full-color
illustrations by Gustaf Tenggren—and you know
what that means! It is a book of color and action
for young children, full of rodeos, trading posts,
snowboqu evenings, rustlers, cowboys and In-
dians. It will save many a rainy day, so add it
quickly to your shopping list.

Creeper’s Jeep

Written and illustrated by Hardie Gramatky.
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New’ York. $2.25.

CHARMINGLY FILLED WITH gay illustrations, this
is the story of Creeper Perkins and the shiny
red jeep he won at the County Fair. The jeep
helps Creeper with his farm work and they are the

384

center of attraction when they go to town on Sat-
urdays. Everything is line until one Sunday after-
noon when the jeep gets into mischief. The man-
ner in which this extraordinary machine later re-
deems itself brings the story to an exciting climax.

Riding Days

By Marjorie M. Oliver, illustrated by Stanley
Lloyd. Westminster Press, Philadelphia. $2.50.

TWELVE-YEAR-OLD Catherine Blakeny l'll’ldS ad-

venture in the country. She rides an untamed
horse, hunts for smugglers, shows her skills in a
village pageant and uncovers a mystery. Girls will
enjoy the excitement and suspense of this outdoor
story, and will learn much about riding and horses.

The Little Golden Book Series

The Three Bears, illustrated by F. Rojankovsky;
The Golden Sleepy Book, by Margaret Wise
Brown; U ,0 in the Attic, by Hilda K. Williams;
A Year in the City, by Lucy Sprague Mitchell.
Published by Simon and Schuster, Incorporated,

New York. $.25 each.

THESE ARE BUT four in the publisher’s Little

Golden Book Series. The drawings are so en-
chanting that children will treasure each book for
a long time—no matter how familiar the story it-
self becomes.

Oflicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

. OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman Of the Board Of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCHER, President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary Of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLIss, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. I., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, VVOOdbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWOR’I‘H, Noroton, Conn.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

November and December 1948

Chattanooga, Tennessee
November 1-5

Oak Ridge, Tennessee
November 8-12

\Vilmette, Illinois
November 15-19

St. Louis, Missouri
November 29—December 3

Martinsburg, West Virginia
November 1-2

Prince Frederick, Maryland
November 8-12

La Plata, Maryland
November 15—18

Arlington, Virginia
December 7-9

San Antonio, Texas
November 1-5

Corpus Christi, Texas
November 8—12

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
November 15—19

\Vichita Falls, Texas
November 29-December 3

Kansas City, Kansas
December 6-10

Danville, Illinois
November 8—19

Fort Wayne, Indiana
November 29-December 10

J. Edward Hargraves, Director, Public Utilities,
Grounds and Buildings.

T. R. Jarrell, Director of Recreation.

Russell Perry. Superintendent, Recreation Board,
726 Ridge Road.

A. H. Wyman, Executive Director, Park and Play-
ground Association, 613 Locust Street.

Mrs. Charles Rehfuss, Field Director, American
Red Cross.

H. R. Hughes, Superintendent of Education, Cal-
vert County.

F. Bernard Gwynn, Superintendent of Education,
Charles County.

Mrs. Ruth V. Phillips, Arlington County Recrea-
tion Department, 3700 Lee Highway.

Miss Lou Hamilton, Director of Recreation.

\V. P. \Vitt, Superintendent of Recreation.

Alvin Eggeling, Superintendent of Recreation.

Mrs. Henry \V. Barton, 2002 Garfield Avenue.

Edmun A. Ash, Superintendent of Recreation, City
Hall.

Mrs. Esther Warden, 1310 North Gilbert Street.

Martin M. Nading, Jr., Secretary and Recreation
Director, Department of Public Parks.

Money is unimportant here ll

 

Land of Cockaigne (COCKAYNE) This is a
modern artist’s idea of that delightful paradise
which was part of the folklore or Europeans
many, many centuries ago.

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation
with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

this is the Land of Cockaigne.

It’s a wonderful place where the houses are
built of cake, and the shops are eager to give
you their merchandise for free.

Here, roast geese and other fowl wander
about inviting folks to eat them. Here, buttered
larks fall from the skies like manna.

Wonderful place, Cockaigne . . . this land
that’s always free from want . . . where busi-
ness cycles are unknown . . . where money is
unnecessary.

Only trouble is you won’t find this mythical
place on any up-to-date map of the world.

We live in a land blessed with plenty—true
enough. But the rub is that we will always need
hard cash to buy the things we want.

You will need money to make a good down
payment on a new home . . . to send the chil-
dren to college when the time comes . . . or to
keep well-supplied with fine food and little
luxuries when it comes time to retire.

One of the best ways you can assure yourself
that you'will have the money you need for the
things you want later in life is to salt away some
of the money you now earn in U. S. Savings Bonds.

These Bonds are the safest in the (world. And
they make money for you. Each $75 you save
today will grow to $100 in just 10 years.

So start saving now . . . the automatic way,
on the Payroll Savings Plan where you work,
or buy them regularly through your bank or
post oflice.

AUTOMATIC SAVING
IS SURE SAVING-

U.S. SAVINGS BONDS

 

