 

Playground

Issue

 

April 1948
Price 35 Cents

Contents

 

April 1948

Six in One, by Howard Braucher . . . . .  1
Recreation Comments . . . Letters to and

from the Editorial Department . . . . . ._ 3
Our Summer Program in Movies,

“by Harold Hainfeld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The Circus is Coming to Town,

by Glenn Wilcox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
In the News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Little Historical Journeys,

by Herbert E. Mulford . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Federal Admission Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

Public Recreation‘as I See It Today,
by Robert L. Horney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Band Shell Construction and Acoustics.
A Digest. Prepared by C. E. Brewer. . 14

Welcome Folks! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

So You Want to be a Playground
Worker?, by Edgar A. Towne . . . . . . 17

PICTURE CREDITS: We
are indebted to: Gedge
Harmon for illustration
on cover; Chicago Park
District for drawings,

page 11; The N. Y. Daily

DON’T FORGET: Na-_|
tional Music Week,
May 2 to 8. Sponsored
by the National and
Inter-American Music
Week Committee, 315
Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, New York.
Write for information,
display materials, pam-
phlets and lists.

News for two photographs
of youngsters, page 26;
Community Service Soci-
ety, New York, for that
of chess playing, page 26.

 

3:»-

Sterling Winans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

From Havoc to Haven, by Vera-May L13wis 19

- Puppets, by Alice Kane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Playgrounds Attract Varying Ages . . . . . . 22
Study'for the“Developn1ent of a‘Neighbor-

hood'Playg'round . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Playgrounds in the Rain . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

To Learn to Laugh . . . Use of Visual and
Auditory Materials in Storytelling, by
Ellen McComb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

At Headquarters . . . Thomas E. Rivers. . 37

People in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
V. K. Brown Retires . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Regular Features

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . .. 31

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

The Postman Brings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

Recreation Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.; is on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12, 1929, at the Post Ofiice in 'New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948, by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO. NUMBER ONE

«.m-

 

Six in One

Six Important Parts
of Jackie D's World

66 ERE ME 18,” states Jackie D., aged four, just

H starting kindergarten, as he stands before
us, alert on tiptoe to face life, his pockets bulging
with his toy gun, little au-to, his various treasured
possessions. Jackie D. is joyous, responsive, very
human. “Here me is”——here he is, and what are the
parts of his world that are most important to him
as he stands on the threshold of“ his universe?

Religion. I place religion first for Jackie—the
inner attitude toward the universe. Is the uni-
verse to be trusted? How far? What shall be
Jackie’s attitude' toward the people about him?
What shall be Jackie’s attitude toward a Power
greater than himself that makes for brotherhood,
for one world, for walking humbly?

In a long life Jackie D.’s inner attitude toward

the universe of which he is a part will make a big -

difference.

A Second PartHLabor. A second important part
of his world for Jackie D. is labor. There is food
to be raised; there is clothing to be made; there
are houses to be built, bridges to be constructed.

51374

E" 03.3}; 3:"‘531”  2* ‘

Recreation

April 1948

 

Jackie D. through the years will be content only as
he finds that he shares in the work of the universe,
that he does his part. What principles prevail in
this world of work will be of the greatest impor-
tance to Jackie throughout his life. He will desire
special skill to use his native gifts well and happily.

A Third Part—Recreation, Leisure, Just Living.
At the present time, at the age of four, a large part
of Jackie D.’s activity falls in the field of play. He
puts on his own little dramas to show more clearly
to himself what it is his father and mother and
others are doing. Before many years 'he will be
absorbed in baseball, in basketball. Perhaps he will
spend every hour he can spare on the violin. He will
want to swim, to skate. Always for a person built
as Jackie is there will be a thousand and one things
he will want to do, and the days will be all too short.
Through recreation he tries himself out, develops
his powers, learns to live, really does live. In recre-
ation he finds joyous comradeship with others. Not
only music, drama, nature, arts, crafts, literature
and sports, but even service to other people, may
come in for him as recreation. The recreation part

1

w -. "1,. . -v'\'~**-
_.’ ,2“.L_). 5.4.": ‘

I!

Mtl-OMUTI'Hy ( ‘OI h 53;!)
Jacksonville, 1 111th .13

of Jackie D.’s world is central; it has relation to
all the other parts.

A Fourth Part—Education. For centuries leaders
have been studying how our schools can best help
Jackie D., not only in his years in school but also
throughout all his life. How can the experience of
the past, of the present—all experience—help Jackie
D. to obtain maximum growth? Rightly have we
given much attention to the world of education.

All the accumlated skills, all the riches of civili-
zation from the ages, all that men have thought, all
that men have done, all that men have shown them-
selves to be belongs to Jackie D. insofar as he can
help himself and be helped to see what has value
for him, how much he can well use in his own life.

As in the case of the other parts of Jackie D.’s
world, education cannot be separated from the other
parts but must be related to them all.

A Fifth Part—Health. The world of health is of

first importance to Jackie—-mental health, physical
health, spiritual health, positive outgoing health of
the Whole person. Rightly health has attracted very
large financial aid and the very best of wise leader-
ship. It has been the field of great human victories.
Pr0portionately, tremendous progress has been
made in the development of health knowledge in
preparing for Jackie.

A Sixth Partw-Government. Gradually over the
thousands of years, in the tribe, in the region, in
the larger areas and now over nearly all the earth’s
surface men are united for a degree of government.
Much of Jackie D.’s future depends upon how far
the various problems can be worked out in peaceful
ways through organized government. Are the best
years of Jackie D.’s life to be spent in world wars?
How can all men learn to live and work together
under government? Government is a main division

for Jackie D.

“Here me is,” says Jackie, and as we look at him

standing, bursting with energy, he faces at least six
parts of his world that are important to him, and

all these parts closely interrelated—religion, labor,
recreation, education, health, government.

Near Jackie’s home is the Great South Bay. Soon
he will go out to sail a boat on it. As he sees the
sunset, the sunrise, the sweep of sky, he will bow
in reverence (one element in religion). He will ac-
quire skills that can help in providing fish and
clams for his family (labor). Under the guidance
of his father he will learn of waves, of winds, of
currents (acquiring experience, which is education).
Sunlight, fresh air, exercise will help make him
strong (health). He will learn there are ordinances
and laws that are laid down regarding sailing,
clamming. (He becomes conscious of government.)
But it is only the one same Jackie that faces all these
worlds. Jackie goes out on the Bay just to have fun,
but later he will see that all these parts to his world
are one universe, and he is one person and that all
are of first importance to him.

Five of these parts to Jackie D.’s world are not
likely to be neglected. Of the parts that are so im-
portant to Jackie the one that has had least atten-
tion, the least thought spent upon it, is recreation,
the world of leisure and play. The force of recrea-
tion, of play, of leisure activity is one of the great-
est forces at large in the world today. In potential
power it is like unto steam, electricity, atomic en-
ergy. What it would mean if through the genera-
tions and the centuries all the wise men who see the
importance of leisure and recreation and are will-
ing to devote themselves to this particular part of
the world were freed to do so—all the Aristotles,

the Froebels, the Joseph Lees, the John H. Finleys,
the L. P. Jackses.

The Jackie D.s of this generation and of many
generations to come stand before us—-~—-“Here we are.
What will you do for us? What will you do for us
in the home, in the church, in the school, in the
neighborhood, in the city?”

Under modern city conditions recreation, abun-
dant living, has a first importance for all the Jackie
D.s now living and those to come. It is central
and can be neglected only at our peril.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

RECREATION

RECREATION

emmenlé

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

To RECREATION :

“I have been impressed with the fine setup of
the RECREATION magazine in recent issues."

LYNN ROHRBOUGH
Cooperative Recreation Service
Delaware, Ohio '

“Incidentally, I would like to say that RECREA-
TION magazine has been very much improved in
recent months and have heard similar comments
from people I have spoken with in the field.”

SIDNEY G. LUTZIN

Assistant Recreation Program Super-
visor, New York State Youth Com-
mission, Albany, New Y orh

“May I congratulate the National Recreation
Association on the composition and content of the
January issue of RECREATION.”

GARRETT G. EPPLEY

Chairman, Department of Recreation,
Indiana University, I

B loomington, Indiana

. “Congratulations on February number—newsy
——thoughtful—Charming.”

OTTO T. MALLERY
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

“The February, 1948 issue Of RECREATION is
‘Super’ in many respects. I enjoyed especially
‘Play As You GO,’ ‘Lighting Up the Ordinary
Hours of the Day with Recreation,’ and ‘It's
Time for Recreation.”

MINNIE SELLERS
Superintendent of Recreation
Tuscaloosa, Alabama

APRIL 1948

TO OUR READERS':

Because of the interest
shown in the last few issues
of RECREATION, we°—as new
staff—gratefully take this op-
portunity to thank the friends
of the magazine for their
good wishes and comments
which have been so helpful
during these Erst months. It is most encouraging
to know that we are moving in the right direction.

In this day of almost complete mechanization,
all who have given serious thought to the recent
and rapid advance of science know that leisure
time hours are on the increase and will continue
to be—if we are wise enough to succeed in main-
taining the peace. This means, of course, that the
golden age of recreation is at hand, and that there
is much—very much—to be done. Increasingly,
people will need guidance in knowing. how to en-
rich their living through the intelligent and satis-
fying use of newly acquired time. The challenge
to recreation leaders is unmistakable.

In light of the above, the staff of RECREATION——
the magazine of the recreation movement in this
country——will strive to be even more alert to ris-
ing needs and thus continue to be of real service
to recreation leaders, to communities and to in-
dividuals, by giving practical help in the form of
current thinking, information, new program ideas
and methods Of work in this field. In addition, we
will work toward building a book of ever increas-
ing interest to the general public, as well as to the
recreation workers whom it serves, so that it may
interpret recreation to those who are still unclear
as to its importance in the scheme of things.
DOROTHY DONALDsON
Managing Editor, RECREATION

 

3

“

 

Our Summer

Program in Movies

Harold Hainfeld

PPROXIMATELY one thousand
A residents of Tenafiy gath-
ered in the rear of the MacKay
School on Wednesday evening,
August twentieth, to see a proj-
ect of their Recreation Commission—the first out-
door showing of the movies of the summer recrea-
tion program. Early in June, the commission had
appropriated sixty dollars to purchase moving pic-
ture film to record summer recreation activities.
A 16 mm. moving picture camera was lent to the
playground director by his father, an enthusiastic
amateur movie maker. With the help of a commis-
sion member, who secured 800 feet of 16 mm.
colored film at wholesale price and donated an-
other two hundred feet of black and white film, the
project was ready to start.

On July fourth the Recreation Commission c01-
laborated with the police department in sponsoring
a full day and evening recreation program, and
the new project was launched. Three hundred
and fifty feet of film were taken of a" variety of
activities—sack races, a bubble gum contest, sail-
boat races and the track meet. Highlights of the
film were pictures of the members of the local
police passing out the ice cream and soda which
they had donated to the children, and scenes of
the children enjoying free pony rides.

Taking movies of the night fireworks presented
a difficult problem for it was impossible to get a
light meter reading of the bursting sky rockets and
flares. The camera was set at f3. 5, the largest
opening, and shot at slow speed of twelve frames
a second, using the faster indoor colored film. To
everyone’s surprise, when the film returned from
the processing laboratory, an excellent colored
movie of the night fireworks was ready to be
spliced into the rest of the film.

The children took a great. interest in the movie

APRIL 1948

Movie Making Can Play
Important Part in Public

Relations

 

making project throughout the
summer. Titles for some of the
activities were made in the arts
and crafts classes. Other photo—
graphs of the children’s program
included shots of the softball games, the children
on a lollypop hunt, the craft classes in action and
the craft exhibit, watermelon and costume parties
and the doll and pet shows.

Black and white film was used to photograph
the twilight softball league, it being so difficult to
get good colored pictures after sundown. This
type of film also was used to take movies of the
softball dinner at the close of the season. Black
and white film can be processed in two or three
days, thus making it possible to have the movies
of the dinner for the Wednesday evening showing
just a few days later.

At the end of the season, football bleachers were
erected in the rear of the school for the big out-
door showing of the playground movies. The
electrical power for the projector was obtained
from an outlet in the school, and as the films are
silent, the police department furnished its emer-
gency truck with a loud speaker to describe the
activities to the audience.

The Tenafiy Recreation Commission now has
a thousand feet of movies of the summer program,
a thirty-five minute Show. Plans call for the film
to be shown to the Parent Teachers Association,
the Women’s Club and civic organizations as part
of the public relations program.

We have found that movie making adds another
interesting activity to summer playground activity.
The children greatly enjoy acting for the movies;
but,- of equal importance, is the stimulation of
community interest in the recreation program—
adults and taxpayers and civic leaders willingly
turn out to see their children and friends, perform.

5 3

 

The queen reigns over the entire community circus.

The boys and girls learn tumbling and trapeze.

Hey Skinnay! ‘ I

The Circus
is Coming

. To Town

Glenn Wilcox

66 av! LOOK, SKINNAY! The circus is com-

H ing. Clowns, acrobats, trapeze performers,
horses, all kinds of freaks an’ everything.”

Three sawdust rings packed full of action and a
sparkling array of amateur talent delighted the
eyes of 15,000 citizens of Fort Worth, Texas, last
August. The world’s second largest community
circus was being staged by the Fort Worth Public
Recreation Department at LaGrave baseball field.
and it was a thrilling local event. 30y and girl
performers came from playgrounds in every sec-
tion of the city to take an exciting part in good
old time circus pageantry.

More than 1,200 people and 100 horses partici—

pated in the galaxy of talent presented. Over 500
actual performers went through their turns with
the greatest of ease.

The most amazing part of this amateur play-
ground circus is that there are no dress rehearsals,
all of the acts being rehearsed individually. The
forty-four piece professional band is made up of
top musicians of the city and is led by a man who
has directed big time vaudeville and circus acts.
He is more than adept at‘ putting the musicians
through their paces.

The band is notified of the circus acts two weeks
before the performance and music cues are worked
out according to the action in each. Although
members of the band don’t actually see the circus
until the night of the show, all of the performers
complete their routines on time and the band never
misses a cue. The general audience doesn’t know
this, but it’s quite thrilling to see the acts work
out beautifully under this system. This has been
going on for eighteen years, and the circus has
always finished the performance without a bobble.
It requires two hours and six minutes for presen-
tation from the time the mile and a half grand
entry makes it trek around the big hippodrOme
track to the finish of the sixty circus acts.

The show is opened with the playing of the
National Anthem, a welcoming address by the
mayor, and the crowning of the circus queen by the
president of the recreation board. The queen is
previously selected at the senior health and beauty

RECREATION

 

Most major acts are from special recreation classes.

I

revue which is staged at one of the municipal
pools. She has been judged for her posture, beauty
and personality; and she reigns over the entire
circus after being crowned. '

Most of the major acts are from the Special
activities classes in the recreation building. In
these classes, boys and girls learn tumbling, tra-
peze, teeter board, tramopline, springboard, hand
balancing, wire walking, baton twirling, acrobatics
and many other activities which become a part of
the main circus acts. Each year several guest
artists are featured, some of. whom have been pro-
fessionals at one time, and who are glad to help
out in a fine community enterprise. This gives a
real flavor to the Big Top atmOSphere. Everyone
in town—from baker to candlestick maker—seems
to have a part in the undertaking.

The grand entry, which is a mile and ahalf long
and brings together boys and girls from the city
playgrounds, has a theme. Miracle Days was the
one chosen last year. There are seven sections in
the big parade. Playground directors are assigned
specific sections in the grand entry, their duty
being to see that various sections are ready to
start when the whistle blows. Directors also are
given the very important job of seeing that per-
formers of the acts, to which they are assigned, are
ready to take their places in the action rings and
on the stages on" the minute designated. All the
acts, which are timed, are given a one minute
warning whistle before their routine is finished,
and when the final whistle sounds, all acts finish at
the same time and all take their courtesy bows as
the band sounds a final chord. This system works
like a charm, and is one of the chief reasons why

APRIL 1948

This affair has the professional atmosphere.

our circus has made a good record as the second
largest community circus in the world.

All of the clowns, who are high school boys,
learn to make up like the real professional clowns.
Everyone has his own facial design and no one cop-
ies it. That is one of the laws of the Big Top fun
makers, and it guarantees a variety of original de-
signs. There are fifty clowns. Last year, for the
first time, seven girl clowns from the playgrounds
were added to clown alley. An effective feature
clown-act is one in which thirty to thirty-five
clowns come out of a Buick coupe single file. This
is one trick of which everybody would love to
know the secret—how all of them can get into such
a small space. To top it off, this year all thirty-five
clowns, a goat, two ducks and one pet skunk (deo-
dorized) came out. This act received a big laugh,
especially when all the clowns took off in all direc-
tions—and then the skunk emerged. There are
many other laugh producers, and the clowns really
put everything they have into them to tickle the
response of admirers of this enterprise.

One of the highlights of the circus occurs when
twenty-five tumbling teams go through different
routines at the same time in the rings and stages
and big hippodrome track. It is quite a sight to
see that many boys and girls from elementary
teams presenting routines of months and months
of training. And to top it all, after these elemen-
tary groups finish, five of the top tumbling teams
of the nation take the spotlight. For the first time A
this year, five young people, who won their laurels
in the National Gymnastic Meet held in Dallas,
Texas, in the spring, gave the audience a thrill
they never will forget. Most of the tricks known

7

in the gymnastic world were unfolded in front of
their very eyes. These five young people are rep'-
resenting the United States in the London Olym-
pics this spring, and are a real credit to the south’-
west. At the same time that this spectacular exhi—
bition was going on in the center ring, four young
men, who have just returned from the European
campaigns, gave a demonstration of balance, tim—
ing and action on the teeter boards. Tricks such
as three man high to the shoulder, double somer-
saults from board to board to shoulder catch, and
many thrill getters of the teeter board variety, held
the audience spellbound.

These boys started as little fellows, and grew
up in the recreation department’s activity classes.
When the war started, all of them were of age and
joined the services. While they were overseas,
however, they never lost their interest in gym-
nastics. Every week or so I would hear from one
of them saying, “Save the teeter boards for us.”
All but one came home. In memory of the miss—.

7!?

ing boy, his buddies now stand in a moment of
silence before each workout. This gives you an
idea of the faithfulness and caliber of these young—
sters. Young people as fine as these make our
community circus a success.

Climaxing the big three ring performance is the
patriotic finale—all 100 horsemen carrying the
flags of the Allied nations make a mammoth semi—
circle around the track. Texas and American flags
take their place in opposite rings, and Uncle Sam
appears on a large decorated float which carries a
revolving world and Miss America holding three
streamers with letters of silver saying Faith, Peace
and Prosperity. Just as the lioat reaches the center
of the field, Uncle Sam takes the streamers, pulls
a cord and releases three white doves which soar
from a disguised cage into the air. The band goes
into “God Bless America” and the audience leaves
in a glow of enthusiasm and good fellowship.

As we say in the circus, the show is stupendous,
gigantic, colossal and it’s free!

IN THE NE W5

Proposed Merger

AT A JOINT meeting of their Executive Commit-

tees, the American Recreation Society_ and
the American Institute of Park Executives voted
to recommend to their memberships the amalga-
mation of the two societies into one organization
to be. known as the American Park and Recrea-
tion Society. This proposed merger will be brought
before the memberships of the two organizations
at their annual meetings this fall.

New Bill

ABILL HAS BEEN introduced into the House of
Representatives, HR 5723, for the creation
of “Federal Recreation Services. This bill is the
one approved by the American Recreation Society,
and although it is not exactly the same as S 1229,
which the Society had also endorsed and is pro-

moting, it provides for substantially the same
services.

Birthday

THE NATIONAL RECREATION Association cele-

brates its 42nd birthday! On April 12, 1906,
a small group of people met with President Theo-
dore Roosevelt in the White House, and became
the Playground Association of America.

8

The American Home

IN TIMES SUCH as these, when the family unit is

more essential than ever before to the demo-
cratic way of life, there is urgent need for action
which will strengthen and protect the American
home. Thus, the President of the United States
has invited the National Conference on Family
Life to meet in the White House May 6-8, 1948
to compile relevant information and knowledge
which may guide agencies and organizations, pub-
lic and private, towards a more integrated pro-
gram for the promotion of the best values in
American life. Prominent leaders from many
helds, including pediatrics, education, mental hy—
giene, public health, economics, social service and
religion, are working to make this meeting “the
first great national step to help strengthen family
life in this country.”

Seattle Bond Issue

N MARCH 10, Ben Evans, Director of Recrea-
tion, Department of Parks, Seattle, Washing-
ton, reported approval of a local bond issue for
$2,500,000 for extensions, improvements and bet-
terments of Seattle’s park and playground facili-

ties. The issue carried by a vote of 83,751 to
18,121.

RECREATION

Little
Historical
Journeys

 

A Summer Day Camp Activity

ESOURCEFUL COMMUNITY recreation leaders.
who make use of interesting local history by
combining little historical journeys with summer
day camp opportunities, materially increase their
worth in service. They develop a budding sense
of American history in their young charges; they
add immenser to the popularity of their project
with the children and parents; they greatly vary
camp routine, and they add to the possibilities for
favorable publicity in public relations. programs.
Details of such projects may differ considerably,
according to the historical imagination and inter-
est of the recreation leaders and, to some extent,
to the richness of the immediate historical back-
ground of the community or the location of the
camps. But, by and large, almost any community
in the whole country has enough background to
make it almost axiomatic that success will crown
a little effort. The experiences of leaders and chil—
dren in such a project carried out in the suburban
village of Wilmette, Illinois, should be typical
enough to serve as a practical case study from
which others, not heretofore using such methods,
could profit.

This village lies about fifteen miles north of
Chicago on the storied shores of Lake Michigan,
with a back country of the Chicago and Des
Plaines Rivers whose early histories are tied in
with that of the great metropolis. Across this
terrain, 275 years ago, came the early French
explorers and missionaries to add lands to the
Kingdom of France—and to save Indian souls.
Therefore, local history of the territory along the
rivers and the shores of the lake carries the names
of Marquette, Nicollet, Joliet, Alloues, Pinet, La
Salle, Tonti and others who were the forerunners

APRIL 1948

Herbert B. Mulford

of the great western migration. Tales are told of
this countrymsome being pretty “tall” ones.

The name of the village of Wilmette is the
Anglacized form of that of its first. white settler,
Antoine Ouilmette, who also had the reputation of
being the first white settler in Chicago when it
was a straggling settlement around Fort Dear-
born, of tragic historic fame. Ouilmette was a
typical French Canadian voyageur and “squaw
man,” marrying Archange, a Pottamatami Indian
half-breed woman to whom the United States gov--
ernment gave 1280 acres of land. This fronted
on Lake Michigan, making up the greater part of
the first platting of \Vilmette, as well as part of its
southern neighboring city of Evanston. The line
of the lake shore made its waters dangerous, which
fact called for the building of a famous lighthouse
on the edge of the Ouilmette Reservation in later
years. Historic trails, from one early fort to an-
other along high ridges left by the receding lake
line, became prominent “roads and streets. The
early settlers who bought Indian lands for specu—
lation left many interesting stories. The Indians
left the “trail .trees.” Old documents and letters
uncovered adventures of pioneers on their way to
California in the great gold rush. At every minor
epoch in the life of the village, there was some-
thing redolent of American life which could be
shown or told to children and be sure of exciting .
their interest.

The year before last was an unusually happy
one for an historical journey project hereabouts,
for W ilmette had been incorporated only seventy-
five years earlier, and the village civic leaders or-
ganized a formal and official celebration of the
event. This brought on community activities

9

which involved local history. The schools, both
public and parochial, held pageants—both within
the schools and in a lovely sylvan amphitheater
facing the lake. Memorial Day exercises took on
an historical aspect. The library prepared “The
Story of Wilmette in Books and Documents” for
the guidance of residents who wished to read on

the subject. This was distributed, on numerous ‘

occasions, when the library held exhibits of histori—
cal objects. The village held a formal “municipal
party,” and later, a whole week of jubilation was
marked by “open house” for all municipal insti-
tutions.

Against this background, and based on the li—
brary’s historical pamphlet, the village recreation
and playground board fostered the combined his-
torical journeys and the day camp. On the edge
' of the village, and skirting the whole city of Chi-
cago, is the famous Cook County Forest Preserve,
rich in legend and a refuge for wildlife. The day
camp was organized in a nearby woods of the pre-
serve. Indeed, it had been Operating previously.
This camp runs for five weeks in the summer.
Children gather at several of the numerous local
playgrounds about nine o’clock. Chartered buses
collect them by nine-thirty and usually take them
directly to the day camp. Here the normal routine
is hiking, lunch—supplied by the recreation au-
thority, a story hour and then the return to neigh~
borhood playgrounds for dismissal before two-
thirty in the afternoon.

Last year the routine was modified once a week
for the special tours. Names and slogans greatly
appeal to the children. Two years ago, they
adOpted the names of various Indian tribes for
their smaller groups. Last year, they used the
name “The Pioneer.” The trips to historical river
courses and portages, old" pioneer cabins and nu—
merous lake shore scenes were called little jour-
neys of the “\Vilmette Pioneers.”

Wilmette lies in a very favored general area;
residents can afford many privileges for their chil-
dren, particularly summer camps, colleges and uni-
versities. Thus, possibly, the percentage of the
population using the day camp is not so high as
might be expected elsewhere. Last year, the en-
rollment was about 160 at a season fee of twenty
dollars per child, with a liberal inclusion of chil—
dren whose parents could afford no fee. The day

camp activities in no way interfere with the usual.

routine at the various village playgrounds. Both
playgrounds and day camp journey activities have
full supervison, direction and counsellor assistance.
Average groups under counsellors run usually less
than twenty-five children, separated into groups

10

by sex and age levels.
One variation of the routine deserves special

attention. The children wanted to know how it
felt to be out at night as experienced by the early
pioneers who had no houses. One of the citizens
of the village owns a large farm with magnificent
groves of trees within a few miles of the commu-
nity. This is in the “portage” territory of the
rivers and makes an ideal place for an overnight
camp. Here, divided into separate groups of boys
and girls for different nights, the children were
given probably their first taste of real campfire ac—
tivity. They gathered together about four p. m.,
were taken to the farm grov'e where they made
camp, built their fire, .had supper, a story hour and
then turned in until it was again time for break-
fast and breaking the camp.

The \Vilmette Recreation and Playground
Board is a tax~supported municipal device organ-
ized more than twenty years ago. Its superinten-
dent, Howard Copp, has general supervision of
physical education in the local public schools and
on the numerous playgrounds. The board, al-
though formally appointed by the village council,
comes with recommendations from the school,
park and village boards. Its activities have con-
siderably increased since its inception. Its work is
not limited to childhood activities, however, for
it plays a considerable part in those for adults. Its
specialized functions differ rather sharply from
those in many coniiiiunities*VVilmette park au—
thority does not directly supervise physical recrea-
tion save in operating a fine bathing beach. Pri-
marily, the park board merely acquires property
and attends to its physical operation. It was to
bridge the obvious gap in directed recreation,
which often is merged with park duties in other
communities, that citizens formed the recreation

authority.

 

Federal Admissions Taxes

HE NATIONAL RECREATION Association has re-

cently checked on the progress of HR 3866,
repealing the federal admissions taxes on the use
of recreation facilities or admissions to recreation
activities of federal, state and local governments.
The bill has been referred to the House Ways
and Means Committee, and we have been advised
that it is important for all individuals and agen-
cies interested in the repeal of these taxes to
express their interest directly to the Representa-
tives from their own districts, rather than writing
to the “rays and Means Committee of the House.

RECREATION

 

Spring fever symptoms sometimes

lead to violent action . . . . . .

APRIL 1948

11

12

Public Recreation As I See It Today

Robert L. Horney

N THE LIGHT of the serious condition of the world today,
when many foundations seem on the verge of crumbling,
it might be well to take stock of ourselves, make new
appraisals of the general problem of living, and decide what
we think is worth living and working for in today’s world.

 

To do this, it is necessary to weigh durable satisfactions
against the sensory, not for the purpose of excluding one or the
other, but with our eyes open as to the definite value of each goal.

In this connection, a community recreation program by demon-
stration and participation must help people see how essential a part
of daily living recreation is, and how their leisure activities may play
an important part in making a world worth continuing in this atomic
age. A design for living, or a way of life, or whatever you may
wish to call it, is something that is difficult, if not impossible, to
blueprint. It seems automatically to fall into an arrangement in

' which no two individuals view their best satisfaction in identical ways.

If you question the average citizen of any community as to the
aims of public recreation, you are in for a great variety of answers.
His concepts of recreation have been acquired in many different
ways. The length of time a program has been in operation, and the
extent of the program itself in a given community, will be influenc-
ing factors in the answers you will receive. In those cities where a
public recreation department has been developing and expanding for
thirty years or more, the public will be more conscious of its value
than in the less progressive communities where city-wide recreation
programs have but recently come into being. Every recreation leader
is still hearing these highly incomplete theories of public recreation—'
from the man of position who, by virtue of his wealth, can buy his
recreation where he chooses and thus holds that public recreation is
for the underprivileged and delinquents; from the misguided edu-
cator who still “bucks” the program because he believes it a frill or
an extra; the sports and athletic devotee who only sces it as a need
for men and boys in terms of physical activity; the social worker
who worries about duplication; the sect who cannot see beyond
playgrounds or something for the children; and there still exists the
unaware man who confronts you at your luncheon club with the
bright quip, “You don’t have much to do in the winter, do you?”

RECREATION

This man’s remark belongs to one whose concept
of public recreation has never gone beyond a hazy
idea of a summer playground program. Like the
sports enthusiast, he would need only a playground
or a gymnasium for his recreation; but we cannot
arbitrarily choose another’s leisure time activity, and
many of us need to learn a little tolerance toward
our neighbor’s choice. To those who still frown
upon public recreation as a frill, let us say that the
mere acquisition of knowledge does not make the
complete man, but when education and recreation
work together, they can bring about the education of
a whole person. We are not educating our children
properly if we do not educate them for leisure, too.

As to duplication of activity, this would be no
problem if every community leader who is dedi-
cated to service would concern himself with more
“doing” and less worrying about personal credit.
We need more sincere philosophy on the part of
public and private leaders themselves who are will-
ing to devote themselves to real community service.

Let us think more clearly on the all too prevalent
idea that public recreation is the panacea for juve-
nile delinquency. It is the fashion of the day for
everyone to expound theories on juvenile delin-
quency. This problem should not be minimized,
nor can it be brushed off lightly; but to reason that
a public recreation program is set up for the under-
privileged and the delinquent child is similar to
saying-that public education should be directed
only toward the handicapped child. Records prove
that children who get into trouble with the law are
not always from the poorer income classes, and
even in cities where juvenile delinquency is at its
height, 'the percentage of children engaged in these
activities does not begin to compare with the much
larger percentage of normal average children.
Shouldn’t we be concerned with prevention rather
than cure? Most public departments and juvenile
authorities are quick to tell you that when a whole-
some program of recreational activities is put into
operation in a neighbor-
hood where crime and

"Much of the quality vandalism have been on

of any civilization obvi-
ously expresses itself in
the way it uses its leisure.
As that leisure expands
constantly with techno-
logical change. it be-
comes ever more impor-

the rampage, the police
have less to do and de-
linquency declines. This
seems to indicate that the
absence of a wholesome

tant that society Find
more enriching and de-
veloping ways to use its
leisure time and its
human resources."

recreation program may
be a precursor of delin-
quency to come. If we

——from Group Experience accept this premise, then

and Democratic Values
by Dr. Grace L. Coyle,

it would seem wiser to
The Womans Press.

direct our program to the

 

APRIL 1948'

. ninety-five percent or more healthy, normal young-

sters in our community who need an outlet for their
boundless energies. 'If the program is directed
toward the average child, it will also appeal to the
troublesome child.

When the youth center in a midwestern city was
set up a few years back, there was a great deal of
chatter and sounding off by various well-meaning
individuals and civic organizations about juvenile
delinquency. This was a roundabout way of selling
to the public the idea of a need for such a center.
Police records can verify the fact that juvenile de—
linquency was not unusual or alarmingly high.
The hundreds of high schoolers of that community
who were simply searching for a wholesome place
to congregate, looked upon their elders with an
amused and tolerant air. When some of the bright
youngsters, who worked hard themselves to make
their youth center a reality, would meet thereafter,
they would greet each other with a salute and a
“Hi, delinquent.”_ Yes, youth is tolerant and a little
weary of so much fuss and talk. Recreation leaders,
board members, and civic leaders themselves are
guilty of capitalizing on this detestable selling ap-
proach for the provision of community recreation.

Recreation must be provided for everyone, young
and old, persons in every walk of life, and its pro-
gram should be as wide and varied as the interest
of the individual. What a man does for his own
recreation is more indicative of his character than
what he does when he is compelled to earn a living.
Thus, it would seem that the primary aim of public
recreation is for every community to provide a bal-
anced program of activities and interests so that
every citizen of the community has an opportunity
to choose the leisure time activity best suited to him.

If we accept this, we must educate the thinking
of our people to expect a whole program rather than
a half measure, by introducing them to a wide
range, well-balanced program including physical,
creative, mental, rhythmic, social, and cultural ac-
tivities. But a mere “paper program” is not enough.
It is the transition from paper program to actual
community participation that needs the salesman-
ship. In this instance, the leaders are salesmen.

Leisure is nothing new to mankind, but it is
increasing, and directed leisure is relatively new to
man’s way of thinking. The recreation leader’s
constant aim should be to help people become par-
ticipants, rather than spectators, to help them thus
broaden and enrich their lives and find those dur-
able satisfactions which can be steadying in an un-
stable world. In this way can they be brought to
see the importance of recreation in daily living, and
in living today. ' .

13

Band Shell Construction and Acoustics

A Digest*

Prepared by C. E. Brewer

USIC SHELLS HAVE been constructed by most
M cities and many smaller communities in the
last century, during which time popular apprecia-
tion of music has been on the increase. It is ques-
tionable, however, whether the architecture of
shells in general has kept up with the increase in
music appreciation and the resulting interest in
concert performances.

Often cities have constructed music shells with
excellent architectural form, but some, apparently,
have been planned as a point of interest for visitors
rather than for the convenience of the musicians
and concert audiences who use them. Beautiful
shells have been placed near busy highways—re-
gardless of the noise of traffic-Hand on other poor
sites. Others have been constructed with little or
no consideration given to the proper acoustical
properties of a shell. Sound reflection is as im-
portant as good engineering design and construc-
tion, or architecture. It has been necessary, in
some of these cases, to resort to sound amplifiers
to broadcast the music from the shell because a
study of sound reflection had not been made be-
fore the shell was constructed.

Location

The music shell should be located on a site as
free as possible of surrounding noise, yet easily
accessible to the people desiring to attend a con-
cert. It should not be near a street, highway, rail-
road tracks or airport where the noise of traffic,
trains, train whistles, boat whistles, or planes will
disturb the musicians or the listeners.

The best location is in a large park, or on a

special site acquired for its natural beauty or good
acoustical prOperties.

At some music shells people sit on the turf of a

 

_*A large part pf the material on acoustics appearing in this
digest was supplied through courtesy of Reinhold Publishing
Corporation, 330 West 42nd Street, New York, publishers of
Enocnsssrvs {\Rcmramvns, September and October 1945 issues,
The Acoustics of Music Shells” by Henry L. Kamphoefner,

Dean of the School of Architecture d Land D .
Carolina State College. - an scape esrgn, North

14

slope comprising the auditorium; at others per-
manent seats are installed. Terraces with a turf
surface are sometimes built, but are difficult to
maintain and are not recommended. -

An ideal location would be on a small island, or
on'a barge anchored just offshore in a water area
where the water would be circulating slowly, clear
and. free from rank weed growth. In the event that
such a site could be found, there should be no
scum or oily surface on the water, nor should it
be a breeding place for mosquitoes.

Any seating area should be on a well-drained
ground sloping toward the shell, giving good visi-
bility of the stage. It should have no low or wet
spots. The planting of a thick hedge of evergreens
or shrubs around the outer edge of the area will
give it the appearance of an open-air theatre.

No parking should be permitted at the music
shell. Parking lots should be distant enough so
that the noise of cars will not disturb the audi-
ence.

Construction

No community or organization should ever at-
tempt the construction of a music shell without
first securing the services of a competent architect
who would fully investigate the possibilities of
sound reflection, and who would insist .on good
engineering plans and good architectural design.

Music shells constructed of steel and concrete
may have a large construction cost, but they will
be cheaper in the end because of decreased main-
tenance and operation costs.

Rest rooms, dressing roOms, a storage room for
music and instruments and if desired, a rehearsal
room, should be part of the shell. These facilities
can be built at the rear of the shell, along the sides,
or even in a basement under the shell. The side
walls and fioor of such rooms should be well
waterproofed and painted in various tints. The
room should have outside light and ventilation.

The stage should be large enough forsopera and
drama performances—the dimensions of the stage

RECREATION

being determined by the proposed uses.

A good setting or background is important, and
the area around the shell should have a good lawn.
Excellent landscaping can be done by planting low
growing evergreens or arborvitae 'near the shell,
or other appropriate trees and shrubs. Planting
is the most effective means of creating beauty
around a music shell, and the skillful use of color
is important.

Music shells have been built in a variety of
forms such as ellipsoid, spherical, parabolic. flat
planes, conical and with a Hat rear wall and in-
clined ceiling. Suggested recommendations and
certain objections to the different types will ap—
pear later in this digest.

An important part of music shell construction is
to free the acoustical system from all echo. Care-

less placing of the backs of seats and retaining I

walls have produced an echo effect in which the
sound has been reflected from such surfaces back
to the shell and then out to the audience again
a fraction of a second later.

Suggested Types of Construction
Rear Wall with Inclined Ceiling

A music shell of good acoustical qualities can
be built of simple design and construction. A ver-
tical rear wall with an elongated inclined overhang
or ceiling is the simplest and most economical. The
inclined ceiling is broken up horizontally into
bands which spread the sound evenly by creating
the proper pitch while they keep the reflecting sur-
faces near the sound source. The vertical rear
wall should be blended with a cove into the in-
clined ceiling. See Figure I. -

 

Figure l.—-Dow Music Shell, Midland,
Michigan. Architect, Adler B. Dow.

This type of shell is effective for audiences up
to 2, 500 persons.

APRIL 1948

Examples

Watergate Symphony Shell, Washington, D. C.
(Shell is built on a barge anchored in a water
area.)

Dow Music Shell, Midland, Michigan.

For larger audiences (over 2,500 persons), it is
suggested that the vertical rear wall have a convex
surface rather than a flat plane. -The addition of
non-parallel side walls might increase its efficiency.
See Figure 2.

REAR WALL

PLAN OF SHELL

Figure 2.

Conical Shells
Another suggested type of shell construction is

' the half dome, conical in shape. The ceiling of the

cone should have a series of raised concentric
ridges'or circles.

The Grandview Music Pavilion, Sioux City,
Iowa, is 102 feet wide at the base and rises to
fifty-one feet at the top of the great structure. The
seating arrangement of the orchestral stage will
accommodate 100 musicians with instruments, or
a chorus of 300. Its construction is monolithic
reinforced concrete and at the rear of the reflect-
ing arch are two large dressing rooms, two smaller
dressing rooms, conductor’s room and library and
a large property room for storage of musical .in-
struments.

Lighting arrangement consists of three primary
colors projected by lights concealed behind the
great arch. An automatic inductor dimmer pro-
duces mobile color effects which may be synchro-
nized with the music.

Examples

Hollywood Bowl, Hollywood, California.
Music Pavilion, Fort Dodge, Iowa.

Blatz Music Pavilion, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Grandview Music Pavilion, Sioux City, Iowa.

Objections to Other Types

Ellipsoid

This form, or type, reflects sound from the stage
to certain focal points in the audience where a
bedlam of noise is heard. At certain points, one
instrument of the orchestra or band will be em-
phasized, and at others, diminished. At other
points, the instrument may not be heard at all.

15

 

Grandview Music Pavilion, Sioux City,
Iowa. Architect, Henry L. Kamphocfner.

Spherical

The spherical form is somewhat less undesirable
than the ellipsoid, but it is still not a satisfactory
sound reflector. The spherical shell is costly to
build, complicated, and has much less value as a
reflector than a simple vertical wall.

Parabolic

The weakness of the parabolic form shows that
sound is focused at the front rows where there is
no need of reflection, and its parallel sides cause a
slapping back and forth of sound within the shell:

Flat Planes

Flat planes—rear and side walls, and with in-
clined ceiling—are not always satisfactory. Two
acoustical defects are: (I) the front portions of
the sides are parallel and do not operate acousti-
cally, (2) the 'ceiling is generally broken up for
the sake of decoration, thus interfering with its
function, which is to reflect sound.

On the other hand, the Greek Theatre at Berke—
ley, California, and the Open Air Theatre, Golden
Gate Exposition Park (1939), which have the
parallel sides at such a distance from each other
that the reverberation time is increased, have good
acoustics.

(a
Welcome Folks!

0 NOT EXCLUDE adults from your playground
D programs. The neighborhood playground
makes a handy and an ideal meeting place. In
many communities mothers like to come during
the day, bring their sewing and watch the children
play. Such mothers are the nucleus of a sewing
group or an adult crafts group for the alert play-
ground director. Fathers drop in to see their boys
play ball. So why not a games program for
fathers—softball, handball, volleyball, or badmin-
ton and tennis for mixed groups? Don’t forget,
either, competitions between father and son, moth—
er and daughter, and other groups. Oldsters like
to meet their cronies in the park or on the play-
ground, to bring their chess or play pinochle, or
just to sit and talk about affairs in general. Tour-
nament competition or lively discussion groups are
popular with these. The following program, which
includes many of these'activities, was reported by
Long Beach, California, in 1947.

Twilight Family Recreation

An organization chart containing suggestions
relating to activities and program was prepared
for play directors as a guide in organizing both
adults and children into a council for promoting

such activities. It was suggested that the local .

16

P. T. A. Recreation Chairman would be a good
person to help.

The chart listed suggested activities under the
following divisions:

Active sports—for random or tournament com-
petition, father-son, mother-daughter or other
combinations; less active games—for random or
tournament competition, such as checkers, domi-
noes, puzzle games, progressive game nights,
horseshoes, shuffleboard, croquet and so on; pre-
scheditled special activities—adapted for adult par-
ticipation, suCh as woodcraft, rhythms, handcraft,
movies, making of model aircrafts, music, drama-
tics and puppetry; auditorium programs—offering
motion pictures (commercial or amateur), commu-

‘ nity singing, folk and square dancing, variations

of amateur shows, hobby exhibits, quiz programs,
amateur talent nights for adults or children or
both; food arrangements—individual family picnic
dinners, find-partner dinners, box socials.

Teen-Agers

Don’t forget teen-agers in your program! Let
them help with real duties, leadership, inspecting
apparatus—and give them recognition. They’ll
have their own leagues and tournaments, of course,
and the social activities that teen-agers love. -

RECREATION

A college boy passes on to
others some of the things he
learned from a rewarding

summer of playground work.

APRIL 1948

Edgar A. Towne

HIS IS A summary of ,observations made while
Tworking with a swell bunch of “kids” last
summer. It is to them that I dedicate this in sin—
cere appreciation for the summer of friendship I
shared with them.

Naturally, one about to enter playground work
wonders what it will be like. But, first, is it not
wise to ask: “What will be expected of me? What
can I give to this work?”

The following are the aptitudes and character-
istics required of a playground worker. (Many
times I wished that I had thought about these
things before I undertobk this work—for they had
to be learned‘through experience.) :

I. A GENUINE LIKING FOR CHILDREN. I should
list this as the first requisite of the playground,
worker. . . . One cannot like this work unless he
likes children. By this I do not mean that it is
necessary to start with a knack of handling chil-
dren. Not many have this knack and those who
do are fortunate; but it can be learned. You will
find that thought and care will help it “come
naturally,” and soon you will be getting along
with them easily. This is one of the first joys you
will experience—the joy of being able to talk shop
with children of all ages and of having them enjoy
it as much as you do. But you will never succeed
if you do not like youngsters and honestly enjoy

' their company.

2. ORDINARY COMMON SENSE AND A SENSE OF
RESPONSIBILITY. These are essential. Though your
playground may be well—planned and enclosed with
a solid fence, the children still can hurt themselves
easily. The danger of falling off swings and slides
and so on, will be ever-present—but never any:
thing to fret about, only to guard against. You
will constantly have to remind the children to use
the equipment correctly. If they are told how to
use it properly and, which is very important, why
they are to do so, no doubt you will have little
trouble of this sort. Situations develop quickly.
If you have a wading pool, before you know it
there may be a grand running and splashing which
could endanger the smaller children. This can/be
anticipated by the alert playground attendant and
be halted before the melee becomes almost uncon-
trollable. Activity in this realm will provide much
of your work, for you are responsible for seeing
that the children play safely. An alert eye will do
much to make your playground safer. Let them
realize that the playground is theirs and that the

17

rules are for their benefit, and you will find little
willful disobedience.

3. GOOD HUMOR AND COMPLETE SELF-CONTROL.
“Laugh and the world laughs with you.” There
will be times when your. patience and humor will
seem exhausted. Loss of temper will not help at
all, and probably will only serve to aggravate the
situation; you must not sacrifice firmness and
principle. You will have to be firm and just, be-
cause the children eXpect it of you; but they do
not expect harsh language and rough treatment.
Remember that a smile can do wonders.

The above attributes are hard to acquire. They
cannot be learned from a book ; but one must consci-
entiously strive to achieve them—they are “musts.”
However, there are other things which a play—
ground worker must know in preparation of this
work. These can be learned through diligent study:

I. A GOOD WORKING KNOWLEDGE OF GAMES AND
SPORTS FOR BOTH BOYS AND GIRLS. Apart from
miscellaneous play activity, the program of the
playground will include organized games and
sports. There will be baseball, basketball, and vol-
leyball leagues; tennis and paddle tennis tourna-
ments ; model airplane contests; pet and doll
shows; costume parades; kite contests; handcraft
diSplays ; picnics ; amateur shows ; and where there
are swimming facilities, water sports and aquatic
events as well as swimming and lifesaving classes.
Usually where there are lakes and large pools, a
trained instructor handles the aquatic program.

2. AN ADEQUATE KNOWLEDGE OF FIRST AID AND
ITS LIMITATIONS. There will be hosts of little
scratches and bloody—noses which must receive at-
tention. However, it is important to remember
the limitations of first aid, for, in many cases, too
much is as bad as too little. Consult a trained
first aid instructor for help in this matter.

* * =1:

The above qualities and knowledge will be put
to the test every day of your work. But, if asked
which is the most important of all, I would say
the matter of getting along successfully with the
children. This seems to be similar tO the “7 UP”
advertisements—“you like them; they like you.”

In return for alert attention and effort to help
them enjoy themselves, you will receive unlimited
satisfaction. If you have entered into your work
enthusiastically, they will Show their appreciation.

If you really like youngsters, one of your great-
est joys will be to see them having good, clean,
safe fun. If the din of the children’s voices ap-
proaches the loudness of the noise issuing from a
boiler factory, you will know that they are enjoy-

18

 

ing themselves. It seems to me that there iS a di-
rect prOportional relationship between the amount
of fun children have and the noise they make.

In your work as a playground director you
will come to know many parents. The more you
know, the better, for to know them will help you
to understand their children ; and they like to meet
the person who is guiding Johnnie’s play. Many
playground activities enlist parents who act as
judges or merely as spectators. You will be called
upon to speak to them at contests, to explain to
them the activities of the playground; you will
talk to them on the street as you go tO and from
the playground; thus you will constantly be in
touch with a good part of the community you
serve. The playground worker may consider it a
duty and a privilege to work with the home and the
church in building happy, healthy youngsters.

 

Sterling Winans

3:5 - :_  2,. .._..,..,,..I A 
.. . I‘ ‘ _.
a 

3
*8

MANY WERE NOT sur-
prised at the selection
and appointment of Sterling
VVinans as Executive Direc—
tor of the California State
Recreation Commission.
Over the entrance of
the professional building at
Pasadena is the statement
“Chance favors those who are prepared,” and
Sterling \Ninans was prepared for this great ser-
vice to a great state. A graduate of Washington
State University, majoring in physical education,
he was a member of the splendid team of physical
education and recreation leaders associated with
Hal Orion at Santa Barbara, which also included
Casey Conrad, at present Recreation Consultant
for the California State Department of Education
and C. C. Christianson, now continuing to serve

. as Director of Recreation at Santa Barbara.

When C. C. Christianson entered the service of
the Navy, VVinans, then assistant, took over as
acting director of physical education and recrea-
tion and carried on with remarkable vigor and
skill—being largely responsible for the expanded
program for “teen agers.” His outstanding “teen
center and youth council” program in Santa Bar-
bara and in Southern California caught the atten-
tion of the new California Youth Authority who
secured his services as recreation consultant. Gov-
ernor Earl Warren desired a “home spun” man as
recreation director, and he got him.

RECREATION

A group of boys returned and wrecked havoc on the
premises; disciplinary problems were distressing . . .

From Havoc to Haven

Vera—May Lewis

NE OF MY first assignments, when appointed-
0 by the director of the Los Angeles County
Department of Parks and Recreation to the posi-
tion of Senior Playground Director, consisted of
contacting the Lincoln School at Willowbrook for
the purpose of setting up a recreation program,
appointing a play leader, and following through to
.see that the schedule would be carried out.

A visit to the area disclosed this “playground”
as one of the most needy spots on the map of the
County. There was nothing for the children to
play with—somebody had stolen the equipment,
even the basketball backstop. The entire building
was defaced with names and carvings and the win-
dows broken. Play was impossible because of the
unkempt condition of the grounds—tin cans and
bottles dumped on the softball diamond, deep holes
full of water under the swings, a complete absence
of a smooth playing field.

It was evident that there was the urgent need of
placing a competent recreation person (at Lincoln
School. In the summer the school had had a hand—
craft specialist, a former teacher who was unable
to cope with the extreme disciplinary problems.
Although she was expert in her field, the entire
situation was out of hand. The older youths of
mixed racial heritage frequently engaged in gang
wars. This was the story:

Three years ago the racial problem became
acute——the population increased to overfiowing be-
cause of an influx of various racial groups. The
children left the school, enrolling in the nearby
parochial school. As soon as Lincoln School was
closed at 4:30 p.m., (after double sessions), one
group of boys returned to their former school
grounds (via holes they cut in the fence) and
wrecked havoc on the premises, stealing clocks,
bedding, silverware and sundry other supplies.

The disciplinary problem during school hours
was distressing. Frequent and severe punishment

APRIL 1948

was meted out by the teachers and the principal.
A survey of the neighborhood showed that
$10,000 new stucco homes were owned by one
group, while another group dwelt in the squalor
of ramshackle huts with black smoke pouring out
of the smoke stacks. New cars stood at the curbs
of the modern homes, While the rest of the popu-
lation trod on foot down muddy lanes. Class and
race consciousness grew stronger each day.

After studying the situation thoroughly, holding
several conferences with the Willowbrook super-
intendent and the Lincoln School principal, and
making a survey of the neighborhood, it was de—

cided that a qualified man should be in. charge.

An athletic program was devised to fit this par-
ticular problem and a competent man engaged as
play leader in charge of the playground. The play
leader made changes to fit arising needs and the
superintendent, the principal and the teachers gave
him their full cooperation. Allowed to purchase all
the recreational supplies he needed, he bought a
large galvanized covered container with a lock on
it, in which he put the balls, bats and jump ropes
used on the playground. He filled up all the holes
on the playground, leveled off the area, got rid of
the trash, repaired broken equipment and started
a sports program.

The children began to feel a new impetus in the
opportunities offered to them. The play leader was
so adept at promoting racial understanding that
soon all the boys were playing football together.
The older neighborhood youths, who had been
causing trouble after school, were eager to partici-
pate and fell in line with the new policy of letting
everyone have a chance to play.

Harmony even spread into the classrooms. Dur-
ing the Christmas holidays, no damage was done

, to the building, breaking a record of holiday mis-

chief of several years standing. The confidence
of the school authorities was regained to the extent

19

that they recently replaced all the broken windows
in the building for the first time in a ‘long, long
time. One window had twenty-four broken panes.

With nearly six hundred children in attendance
at double sessions, the playground is now exceed-
ingly active, with boys and girls using all the
facilities six days a week. Race hatred has been
reduced. Destruction of property seems to be a
thing of the past. The school authorities have
redecorated the building and permanently finished
the playing field. School disciplinary problems
have found a new low. Boys and girls of different
racial heritage play together, developing a sense

of loyalty to the playground, the school and the
government. Clean sportsmanship has transformed
potential delinquents into young citizens. By the
proper selection of the right type of person to take
charge of this very difficult area, a material change
has been noticed throughout the school.

The solution or alleviation of community social
problems by the proper application of recreation
programs is one of the primary objectives of the
recreation profession, and the above case illus-
trated a satisfactory operation of certain recreation
theories as applied to a particular problem in the
regular programming of leisure time activities.

9

Boys and Girls House, of the Toronto Public Librar-
ies, puts on an excellent program of playmaking
with children. Here one of the staf gives a detailed _

account of the ways in which they dramatize literature.

Puppets

Alice Kane

T WAS JUST before school closed in June that a
I young mother came to the library desk with
her request. “I do hope you’re going to have a
puppet group this summer,” she said. “Lydia en-
joyed it so much last year. Of course, she makes
things at home with her little sister, but they get
discouraged very quickly all alone.”

The next day Mary came with a puppet in her
hand. “Look,” she said, “my brother Harold made
it. He thinks you might use it in a show for he
can’t do a show by himself.”

Then Leon and Glennie and Alan appeared.
“Can we start puppets early this summer?” they
asked. “You know, before camp starts.”

That is the way a library puppet group begins.
Children who are interested drop in and leave
their names, because they find that working alone
they may produce a puppet, but unless they are
quite talented or persistent, they seldom produce
a play. Sometimes the group consists of four or
five friends working together. Sometimes it is'a

20

 

small school class. Most often it is an assortment
of children—boys and girls, from four to fourteen,
who want to put on a puppet show.

At the first meeting they have to decide upon
a play. “Shakespeare,” announced nine-year-old
Sarah with conviction. “Shakespeare is the best
author. He don’t get the rhymes so good but he’s
the best author.” “Let’s have Macbeth for our
next play,” said Joe. “I know a.lot of it already.”
The classics rank high with the children in their
choice of material for plays but Shakespeare gives
place as a rule to Grimm and Anderson, and
Macbeth is a poor second to Cinderella or Rum-
pelstiltskin. “I like a princette,” confided Natalie.
“A princette with golden hair,” “I can howl like
a wolf,” boasted Mervyn, “so let’s do The Three
Little Pigs.” “Fairy tales are the best,” said Joan.
“You never get tired of fairy tales.”

So a fairy tale is settled upon and read aloud or
told to the children. At the first reading they see it
in all of its splendour: the witch riding the clouds,

RECREATION

Hansel and Gretel lost in the enchanted forest, the
doors opening by magic and the green frog sud—
denly turning into a handsome prince. At the
second reading, technical difficulties begin to pre-
sent themSelves. “How can the tigers go round
and round the tree?” “How can the beanstalk
grow and grow?” “How can the tsar have armies
and ships?” “How can a hundred years pass by ?”

To many of the boys and girls in such a group,
it is an entirely new idea that the play is a different
form from the narrative. Some of them are very
literal in their interpretation of the story. “Mollie
Vthppie went there three different times,” said
Wanda. “She can’t just take all the things from
the giant at once.” In the height of the argument
an older boy or girl usually comes forward to ex-
plain patiently “You see, you know the story be-
cause it was read to you. But these little kids who
are coming to see the play, they don’t know it.
And you have to make them understand it with—
out reading it first.” When this idea has been
more or less assimilated, the plotting of the story
begins. The leader generally has done this herself
beforehand, and she can guide the group into a
simple plan with the fewest possible scenes. For
instance, a new group doing Jack and the Beam—
stalh will start with three scenes:' (1) Jack being
given his commission by his mother inside the
house; (2) Jack saying goodbye to his mother
outside the house; (3) Jack buying the beans
farther along the road. For younger boys and
girls, the hardest and the dullest part of a whole
puppet show is the rough arrangement of the story
into a play.

But at last the main outline is ready. VJays have
been found to suggest the fleets and armies of the
tsar and the hosts of fairyland. The events of a
year have been melted into a single night. The
main difficulties of time and change have been
overcome. It is time to write the script. This is
important, too. It must be simple and workable,
easy to learn. It must be so clear and direct that
the audience will be sure to get each point. But
the language must retain the flavour of the story.
If it is a Russian tale, the speech must indicate
that as well as the costume. If it is a folk story
such as The Three Bears, the words must be child-
like, instead of having the oriental splendour used
in Blttebeard. Boys and girls of eleven and twelve
often enjoy writing these scripts, and realize the
value of a strict adherence to them once they have
been prepared. Impromptu remarks are all very
well in such a production as Punch and Judy, but
they can quickly get out of hand as they did with
the high spirited boy playing Billy Beg. He killed

APRIL 1948

the second giant and said casually, “OK, see you
tomorrow, same time, same station.”

The play is ready to be worked on, and the
parts are assigned. The boys and girls themselves
decide which one will be the giant, which one has
the best voice for the timid little fox, who learns
a long part quickly and accurately and who will
be best pulling the curtains or checking the prop-
erties. The child who reads the part works the
puppet for that part and, as a rule, makes the pup—
pet himself. But in the actual puppet making,
there is an even greater diversity of talent than
in the learning of lines. Alan can learn a part
quickly but cannot bear to put his hands into the
sticky papier mache mixture, while Glennie, who
is unable even to remember to pull the curtains,
has a line free hand with moulding heads and pro-‘
duces vigorous, lifelike puppets. Three small
mechanically minded boys put together a turn-
table on which Little Black Sambo’s tigers re-
volved around the tree. Three other children,
without adult aid, but armed with a comb and a
penny whistle, evolved a fine set of noises for the
fair in The Three Little Pigs. Nicky pinned a
solitary palm tree of green blotting paper against
the black backdrop so effectively that nothing else
was needed to suggest the setting for Little Black
M ingo. Children, who are too small or too lacking
in self-confidence to mould heads or paint scenery
or make clothes, can tear up paper or tie twigs
into bundles or cut suns and stars and fences as
they are needed, out of colored paper. None of
the self-consciousness of appearing on the stage
troubles children here. The shy child becomes the
roaring dragon. The plain little girl makes and
manipulates a beautiful princess. The boy with
one paralyzed arm pulls his puppet onto his good
hand with his teeth, and sets out undaunted to
conquer three giants and a dragon, and finally to
marry the princess. “And gosh,” breathed Leon as
he pulled the puppet from his hand, “can you
blame Billy Beg for wanting her? Hair black as
midnight, eyes like stars, wouldn’t you want her
yourself?”

Scraps of torn newspaper mixed with flour paste
form the basis of the puppet heads. The exagger-
ated features, the witch’s drooping chin, the giant’s
prominent eyes all delight the children. Hair is
made from wool of fringed cloth or frayed string
and clothes from everybody’s rag bag. Ends of
Christmas tinsel, odd buttons, old curtain rings
and scraps of silk or velvet will dress a tsar in all
his finery or transform a plain papier mache head
into a moon princess.

Now that the puppets are made, the paint dry

21

and the costumes finished, the first glamour of
the story descends upon the group again. They
forget the old pieces of cardboard rolled into tubes

for the necks, the paste, and the torn newspapers,

and they see once more a fairy tale magically
brought to life by their own efforts.

At last the parts are all learned, the backdrop is
finished, the rehearsals are all over and the day of
the performance is here. Mary has the properties
laid out neatly row by row, each scene in turn,
and now she stands guard over them, grimly wait—
ing to hand them to the puppeteers at the right
time and not a minute sooner. John, clearing his
throat anxiously, is waiting to tell the name of the
play before he pulls the curtains. Mervyn is peep-
ing shyly out to be sure that his mother has really
come to see him, while Glennie and Alan are
shamelessly waving at their little sister around the
corner of the stage. The audience of nervous
fathers and mothers and proud small brothers and
sisters has assembled. Finally everything is in
order and John steps forward to announce the
title. There is a small crash behind the stage and
Mary’s voice in a shrill whisper says, “Milton--
I’ll—I’ll.” John hesitates, but decides to take
the plunge “Ladies and Gentlemen, our play to-
day . . .” The curtains part. The show is on.

to justify to the children, all the effort that .they
have put into it. Their question as the final cur-
tains close is invariably the same: “What play
will we start on next?” They slip out while their
own puppets are off to take a look for themselves
at the lighted stage in all its glory, to admire the
work of the others and to exchange a glance of
confident pride with their friends in the audience.
No small slip or disaster dims their satisfaction
and no criticism dampens their spirits. The audi—
ence is seldom critical except of the length. “Is
that all?” is the indignant question. “Phew—two
minutes,” whistled one little girl dismissing the
work of months with one expelled breath.

The close of the performance is also the measure
of its success. Then the names are—handed in of
boys and girls who want to be in the next group
and of eager parents who want their children to
try, too.

In such a lull after a puppet show, while parents
and friends pressed around with questions and
congratulations, four-year-old Cookie seized a
puppet, and standing on a chair to reach the stage,
gave a repeat performance, almost word perfect,
of the one she had just heard.

“You can’t stop me,” she cried triumphantly,
“because I’m going to be in the next puppy show.”

And she was.

The performance of a puppet play always seems

KQ=92

PLAYGRCDUNDS
Attract Varying Ages

 

Oldsters have great fun
with competition and quiet
games.

Youngsters thrive and grow
healthy under careful su-
pervision.

Teen-agers love dancing, Young adults throw them-
parties, hikes and other selves into sports with

program activities. much enthusiasm.

22 RECREATION

Study for the Development

of a Neighborhood Playground

HE STUDY PRESENTED on the following pages
Tshows how a site of five and one-half acres
may be utilized effectively as a neighborhood play-
ground. An area developed according to this plan
would give opportunities for family-wide recrea—
tion, although it has been designed primarily for
children. All of the major features considered
most essential to a neighborhood playground have
been provided. The following comments refer
briefiy to these features:

Playground Shelter—“This structure is placed
near the main entrance and near the control cen-
ter for children’s activities, and serves as play—
ground headquarters. In addition to a director’s
office, toilet facilities, and minor storage space,
the building provides an attractive playroom for
indoor activities, a large porch for quick shelter,
and conveniently located drinking fountains.

Preschool Area——-—This section, intended primarily
for children of preschool age, is located near the
main entrance and close to toilet facilities in the
playground shelter. It is convenient to the wad-
ing p001———-a feature widely used by young children.
The facilities suggested for this area include chair
swings, sand boxes, junior junglegym, kindergar-
ten slide, paved play area, and benches for moth-
ers. Some shade is desirable, and complete inclo-
sure is recommended.

Apparatus Area——Apparatus for older children
is safely and compactly arranged in a separate
area, and is inclosed by a low fence or other bar—
rier. This arrangement facilitates supervision and
effective use of playground space, and discourages
use of the space as a passage to other play areas.
The use areas shown include' sand modeling area;
seesaws, junglegym, swings, giant stride or cir—
cular traveling rings, box hockey, horizontal bar,
slide, horizontal ladder and balance beam——types
recommended by the Committee of Recreation Ex-
ecutives and found on many well-equipped play,-
grounds in the United States and Canada.

APRIL 1948

Wading Pool—This facility is convenient to the
main entrance, and close to the shelter for effec-
tive control. The open paved area provides shaded
benches 'at both sides. After the wading season,
the pool can be used for games or as a tricycle
track for small children. In some localities, a
spray pool or combination of wading and spray
pool would be desirable.

Multiple Use Area—By the use of removable
standards, this all-weather surface area is suitable
for children’s games, roller skating, ice skating
and dancing. Or it may be used for the games in-
dicated, such as basketball, volleyball, paddle ten-
nis, badminton, shuffieboard and table tennis. To
serve most effectively, however, it should be
marked off for the games most p0pular locally. Its :
proximity to shelter and wading pool facilitates
supervision. It may be lighted for night use.

Low Organized Games Area—This turf area ad—
joins the wading pool and multiple use areas, and
is an open space set aside primarily for running,
circle and throwing games. At certain times of
the year, part of this space may be used for games
of higher organization.

CraftsI Quiet Games, Dramatics——This section,
which is adjacent to the low organized games area,
is developed for small group activities of a less
strenuous nature, and is somewhat removed from
the noisier areas. Some shade is provided for arts
and crafts, quiet games, dramatics and storytelling.
One corner is devoted to informal games requir-
ing few participants and little supervision.

Field Games Area—Over half of the playground
area is an open playing field where team games
such as softball, touch football, soccer and field

hockey can be played, primarily by children. Over-

lapping fields permit seasonal variations in pro—
gram. There is ample room for adult use of the
softball field on evenings or on weekends. At
times this field area could be used for play days,
kite flying, ice skating, and so on. A drinking

23

24

What’s going
on today?

Swing high, swing low.

'Arts and crafts.

\\

Father and son tournament.

 

 

One Playground Within One-Qu

'A MEI GH'bozw

A 51'qu Fen. h“: ULTIMATE.
FACILITIES APPROPRIATE; To

PR.‘
NATIONAL. 5'.
HF.

 

———_——- f—__—

A
-——
I ' ‘r'gtszr—m-th‘ar awrhewwfimim’I/av’mm

  tam u
t-
O

 ' vacuum-«IO CI
: 4
3 5TOI—Y/LLLIHC

         
    
   

  

     

I
I
J, I: — "
its [2 55.-....
\' I
PM“! 5: banana.
'1‘ REA r.

I!

q
p a! ans-9116 5
, u __‘ ‘ 1

*é=§====&= _. _.

     
    

 

 

'7 wvv '7
Move:

1m; 5:11.13 Tvmux. Ol- Mnn' POTLMYIAL. pLAYQLOUI-ID AILLAS
m lg‘mozunAL. DISTllch.

Compulne. lucuosuuu Is DB—blB-AbLlr Fan. $AI’LYY. Last. 0:-
5UILLVI9IOH Aup Lissa-we. LaApsILsI-ur- WHEEL Cost 0:-

MAIHTEHAHCE 15 PE-JHHBH’IVt, FENCIHC. MAY be 5065T|TUTEP
FOB- HIDGL MATE-LIAL WHLEEVBL éclEi-HIHC IS NOT IMPOLTAUT.

Tub MULTIPLE Us: ALeA buoucu Hue Au Au. WEATALI...

5ULF‘AC3. PIIMALILY ran. CAILDKLN": GAME-5, KOLLeL. Summattc.
IT MAY Ausa bl. usav Fan. Tue Court GAME-5 smowu. Auv F01.
:uau HLIQHE’OKHOOP ACTIVtTtt—S A: VAHCH-JG.

LQuIPMLu'r TEALM‘; Ame. DEbcmurr-va oun’; THLm. us: Dots x101
IMPLY PR—LPEKLHCL Fan. AMT PAaTneuLAn. MAI-LE. 0% APPAnATLw.

 

“That every child in America shall have a chance to
play, that everybody in America, young or old, shall

National B1
315 Fourth AI‘

RECREATION

l) One-Half Mile of Every Home !

’PLAYGROUHD

“an? SHOWING AREAS AMD
is FWL AMD OHS-HALF Acmas

 

fTHB

p' Assocm‘nou
I, M. Y. Sand castles.

 



==_' ' 
‘1.

'
:.-.':.\\.‘:‘!.IL\_‘£"\I fi“% ‘3' amt-mgwmwxwvmcxxguy/xuxm'uimm I

    

 

f .. : mm“. , .

r) r—————-—[ gun",
:L— ——I ‘* g" 1
I [\— I"

ucnx Foo1bALL- bacc+m
OVII-LAPPIMG I

  

The play’s the thing.

v"

a. . ..._ J'EY'JA'GNSH'IJL‘IWA‘ 39%}WHQWKEQ'HW '6317N049Hc2’w

I
v

 

inning ADULT5

 mi

!‘

02’4" «.4113 .G": ' "

\t

A.

. ‘ ,_ H .
_———_—_~£——__‘
———_——_———-—

‘-

   

snous Tunney

\
p

G A T
[WHVAWILWISII:HQWZ"WIIL Mi-‘z‘l‘tk «Mb ‘3“ mus-m2»: I

==1—-n=g—-_--:—:- .

.. v 'vvw‘r

' a)  ' a     Everybody loves a parade.

KEY To EQUIPMENT

‘1!

 

A- 5AMD MooeLluc M- Cum. SmucsGu 096)
b- SLL- 5Aws(5e1 Or 4) u - SAuo bow.

c- JUHGLE. GYM. CA5TLE. Towiu..£1<-. o- .13.. JUL:th GYM.E.TC.
D - SWIHCA‘J (55.1 or G) P- PAVBD ALLA

E.- Gun-r 512.195.. OIL CumULAn. time, Q- KnuvLLGALTeH 3|..an
F - bag HOCKEY

‘ G- PouevLE. HonnnouTAL DAR...

' H — 5mm
J - HomlzouTAL LAODEJL

| K'bALAncz. 56AM

0 IO 15 50 100 I50 2.00 250

—— ——-""_

 

 

' SCALE. m FLLT

have an opportunity to find the best and most satis-
fying use of leisure time.”—Original Charter, NRA. Shumeboard

'3.

2L Association
.r York 10, N. Y.

 

APRIL” ' 1948 2 5

fountain might be installed behind the softball
backstop for convenience of players.

Game Courts—A limited section of the play—
ground is developed for court games that will not
be played on the multiple use area. Two tennis”
and two handball courts, plus space for horseshoes,
are provided in this area. They may be lighted for
night use. Croquet and clock—golf are provided

elsewhere on turf areas.
Rest Area for Adults—Space for table games,

and especially those for older people, has been re—
served at one side, with easy access from the street
and with plenty of shade. This area is located near
the game courts most frequently used by adults.
It may be lighted for night use.

Overall Design—The compact arrangement of
playground features will make for lower costs of
construction, maintenance, and operation. The site
is completely inclosed for greater safety.

Landscape Treatment—“This playground site is
relatively level, but many playground properties
need some regrading to provide fairly level sports
areas. Adequate drainage, however, must be pro-

vided, and all playing surfaces should be given the
proper pitch for the most effective use..

Hardy trees are shown at boundaries, and where
some shade is required, headed high enough to
discourage climbing and permit proper ventilation.
Boundary and separation hedges are indicated, but
other planting or fencing may be used. Decora-
tive shrubbery is used only at the shelter building.

Before development, this site illustrates several
features encountered in many communities—rela—
tively flat topography, a street on one or more
sides, at least one boundary formed by lots front—
ing on another street, cross streets dead—ending at
the site, few existing trees, rectangular shape, and
limited size. It should, therefore, offer suggestions
without any thought of duplication. I

Obviously the planning of a particular site will
be influenced by many factors and finally by con—
sidered compromise. The number of persons the
playground will attract, the various age groups,
the directions from which they come, the facilities
needed, the leadership to be provided—“these are a
few of the things which will affect the layout.

KQ=QJ

 

Activities move into shelters; program continues.

 

What matters a shower, with a good game in progress?

26

Playgrounds
in the Rain

 

The wondrous process of creation is not disturbed.

RECREATION

 

Use of Visual and Auditory Materials in Storytelling

The experience of the University Hospital School, University
of Michigan, in working with sick children, has much to offer
recreation workers, generally. In the past few years it has
done considerable research in the use of visual and auditory
materials in recreation and in teaching. The results have
been shared with the University of Michigan which, in turn,
has made them available to schools throughout the state.

ISUAL AND AUDITORY materials are indispen—

sable in our educational and recreational pro—
gram for sick children in the University Hospital
. School. Storytelling is one of our many features.
Our school is in a unique setting—that of a gen—
eral, teaching hospital where children from the
entire state of Michigan come for diagnosis and
treatment. These are children from the public
schools who, because of illnesses, long or short,
serious or reasonably simple, are receiving medi-
cal and surgical treatment.

In order to give them a familiar and basic
schooling while hospitalized, the University Hos-
pital School was established in 1922. Since its
origin, more than 75,000 children, from preschool
age through the high school level, have shared in
the learning opportunities offered.-

These children represent different homes, local-
ities and experiences. Some are retarded in both
social and educational backgrounds. Many have
lost bpth incentive and interest for further learn—
ing. Consequently, all known devices, methods

APRIL 1948

Ellen McComb

and techniques must be employed to motivate
them; and visual and auditory materials are quite
generously used with satisfying results.’

There are four basic factors which determine
the value or need for the use of these materials:
the reality of the material; the teaching purpose;
the child’s past experience; and the intellectual
maturity of the child.

The physically well child learns by“ doing. The
sick child in the hospital must supplement his
learning by seeing and hearing as well as by doing.
In our University Hospital School, we teach chil-
dren during their period of acute treatment, offer—
ing them the Opportunity for freedom through
learning, freedom for expression, freedom of
choice, and freedom for fun, all of which are es—
sential for normal development. The child enters
the hospital with multiple fears of treatment, of
the unknown, of family separation, and of endless
other things. Shyness is an outstanding. charac-
teristic. There is often an apathetic, negativistic
attitude and a very short span of attention. Some

27

children have missed out on whole blocks of nor-
mal experiences.

we have learned that it is possible to educate as
well-as to entertain children through stories, using
visual and auditory materials. Because of the
mixed age group, the diversity of experiences and
the retardation in fields of learning, the choice of a
story and the manner of its presentation are most
important. Each is weighed carefully.

Each day our group varies because of new ad-
missions, discharges, medical and surgical treat—
ment and many interruptions. Let us imagine a
typical story group of twenty-five children ranging
in ages from two to thirteen. They are in cribs
and beds, some are on frames suspended over
their beds, some in traction, some in wheel chairs
and some are ambulatory. They must be placed
carefully in the playroom so that each child can
see and participate in the activity. Because many
are definitely retarded in their social and educa-
tional experiences and their backgrounds are so
varied, the teacher cannot possibly choose a story
that will appeal to the entire group. Therefore, a
story is chosen which will fit the largest age
grouping.

In choosing a story we must ask these ques—
tions: What do these children know? What is
their background? Have they attended a public
school? Have they been hospitalized for long
periods? To what extent has their physical con—
dition limited their activities? Does the story fit
the largest age grouping? What teaching possi-
bility has the story?

We have found it wise to use stories with a
familiar background rather than stories of fantasy.
To hold interest and to get a ready response, the
story must be short and descriptive.

Our next question is how shall the story be
presented to hold the attention of the group. Shall
it be introduced by group discussion? Shall pup-
pets or marionettes be used? Are the illustrations
of the book to be used? Shall the group draw
individual pictures? Shall the teacher draw illus-
trations as she tells the story? Could story figures
be used? Is music to be used with the story? Does
the story lend itself to dramatization? Is a micro—
phone, movie, lantern or soundscriber to be used?

Our choice of stories is very flexible and often
spontaneous, depending entirely upon the group
and their needs. The illustrated story, Caps for
Sale, by E. Slobodkina has been very successful
with the age groups from four to nine years. The
story is excellent to use for reading readiness and
to teach color concept. The teacher presents it by
drawing large chalk illustrations. For correlated

28

teaching, there is color and number concept, and
new words with their meanings.

Through dramatization, we can make characters
come to life. During this process, the child’s self-
consciousness is forgotten. The socialization value
is inestimable. In deciding upon a story for drama-
tization, "these factors should be considered: the
story should lend itself to dramatization; the story
must have simple dialogue and few characters; it
must allow opportunity for instinctive action so
that when the teacher asks who wants to be a given
character, there is an instantaneous response.

We have in our playroom what is breathlessly
referred to as “The Treasure Chest,” filled with
all types of fascinating costumes, among them
formal dresses of questionable vintage. This chest
is responsible for many spontaneous story drama-
tizations. On one such occasion, a severely burned
child who was here for extensive skin grafts was
Cinderella. She was dressed in a “shocking'pink”
beaded formal gown, wearing a large fiuttery silk
Hower in her hair and golden slippers with high
heels. She went around exclaiming, “I am really
beautiful.” I doubt that she will ever feel so beau”
tiful again! On another day a little girl, who could
neither walk nor see because of a brain tumor,
was a dancing fairy. She was attired in a filmy
shawl of bright colors. From her wheel chair, as
she stroked her lovely silk shawl, she kept saying,
“See, I am dipping this way and that, this way
and that.” .

Peter and the Wolf by Serge Prokfieff is a
musical story which we use with story figures and
large. illustrated pictures of the instruments of the
orchestra. This sound story always brings a ready
response from the older age groups, from ten to
fourteen years. It gives a word picture of each
character and is represented by a corresponding

 

Stories are carefully chosen for dramatization. Must
stimulate Spontaneous desire for character parts.

RECREATION

instrument of the orchestra. The element of sus-
pense in the story helps in developing concentrated
thinking on the part of the child. It is used to
teach recognition of the various band instruments
through association of sound and sight.

Humor or freedom for fun is one of our corner—
stones in teaching. Because our children have
many new and difficult adjustments to make, there
is need for mental relaxation and the opportunity
to learn to laugh.

In all of our teaching we emphasize freedom of
expression. \Vhile this is essential in all learning
exphriences, it is especially important for sick chil—
dren to have every known outlet. Some children
in the hospital must be kept in small units because
of the nature of their treatment and they do not
have the opportunity to mingle with 'others in ’the
playroom and shops. Consequently, our visual and
auditory materials are of inestimable value in mo~
tivation, in stimulation and in sharing experiences.

The soundscriber has been an indispensable
teaching aid and its educational uses have been
many. Through the use of the soundscriber, chil-
dren express themselves freely, improve their
speech and are able to have their stories, songs

and poems recorded and enjoyed by others. One

child who had to remain in a small unit, isolated
from others, was encouraged by her teacher to
tell an original story after seeing pictures of birds
with the use of the projector and observing real
ones brought from the playroom. She wrote a
little story which the teacher helped her to record
on the soundscriber. Then by attaching the micro—
phone, she heard the story from her recording as
it was presented to the children in the wards. The
ones who heard it were stimulated to write and
tell stories which were recorded and played back
to her. Although not in the room with her, they
became real children with whom she shared, ex—
changed and enjoyed experiences.

The utilization of multiple visual and auditory
materials in an activity program is the most ideal
method of training the child. We believe that if
stories are properly chosen, interestingly and con-
structively presented, they can do much in devel-
oping a wholesome philosophy of life.

Editor's Note—-

The University Hospital School has made two I6 mm.
Irodachrome and sound movies—"Education Through
Play" and "The Educational Program in the Galen
Shop"—which are available to oi-ganizationsI upon
request from the University of Michigan. Audio-
Visual Center. Ann Arbor, Michigan.

 

 

VACATION IN THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST
and learn while you play

INSTITUTE IN
RECREATION SKILLS
AND LEADERSHIP

FOR MEN AND WOMEN

OUTSTANDING AUTHORITIES such as Herb Gregger-
son,'El Paso, Texas; Helen M. Dauncey, National
Recreation Association; Lester Griswold, Colorado
Springs, Colorado; H. B. Hunsaker, Utah State
Agricultural College; and Roger Larson, The State
College of Washington—will offer instruction in
the following courses:

Square Dancing, Social Recreation,
Playground Activities, Arts and Crafts,

Camping, Recreational Sports

Six one-week courses. You may enroll for one or as
many as you like. A new course each week in order
named above, first course beginning June 14th.

C-I Rights Eligible Courses With or Without Credit
Classes will be limited

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS, WRITE
DR. HELEN G. SMITH, Director ofRecreartion Institute

THE STATE COLLEGE OF WASHINGTON

Pullman, Washington

 

APRIL 1948

   
   
   
  

   
   

     
 

er more: i

   

 ""P-ia. , ' ‘ .;.;.;.
.  ..'.1:-.-.  ~.
' I
u g a I ,

 

S:ATHLET'CQ»E

."

 a First Clinice
? ' for

£11er Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

   

g a
fill FIJI/£57 IN I!!! FIELD I
nauurncrunmo comnmv - SI. nouns 3 MO.

  

29

     

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
your dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
vestigate this efficient dust-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust
annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the'ground
is ready for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished
by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains
effeCtive for long periods. One application per season
or year is usually sufiicient.

 

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company

Division Sales Offices:

0

Ioston - New York '- Philudelphiu ' Pittsburgh 1 Atlanta

’ New Orleans - Houston r looisville - Toledo

 

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand:
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly
and uniformly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set

prevents the growth of grass on areas treated, and mini-
mizes dust annoyance and expense in near-by houses,
Stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf office
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-‘
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining Company R
3800 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa. ‘

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet, “Gul
Sani-SoiI-Set-the modern, proven agent for controlling dust.”

Name-nononecue-IIoncau-nonoIIIIDion-ICOIIIII-IIIOOIIIeel-QQIOIII
Title.I.llIIDIIIIICOI‘U.........C.CCCCOIIIIII.IIIOCIICC-IOIIIIIIIICC

|
l
I
|
|
|
l
|
l



Recreation .

Helpful hints and bits of information on
this and that. Ways of doing things that
have been proved through experience.

“Folks of .America”

The Recreation Department of Columbus, Geor-
gia, culminated the summer playground program
last year with a Folk Lore and Legend Festival.
In its own words:

To carry out our theme, “Folks of America,”
we went journeying back to the days of heroes
who have become the legends that shape our be—
liefs and build our ideals. Throughout time, a
nation’s heroes and story book characters have
shaped the very character of the peOple them-
selves. _

The theme had been planned in the early spring
by the full time leaders and the children on vari-
ous playgrounds. The college students and the
extra specialists, who work during the summer
only, were notified of the theme so that they might
choose and do research on their portion of the fes-
tival.

The craft Specialist held one session a week on
each playground. The children built and painted
the backdrops, such as an inn scene for Rip Van
Winkle, mountains of the Rockies for the 49’ers
in Clementine, a fort for the Daniel Boone Settle-
ment, and so on. The craft specialist helped them
make belts from venetian blind slats and boot lac-
ings, with the motif‘of their legend painted on
them, also pottery, jewelry boxes, textile stencils,
embroidery, paper dollS and leathercrafts.

The storyteller and drama person, who was in
charge of the finished production, told stories the
first part of the summer. During July and August
she practiced with the children, each week using a
different group of children, so that the characters
always had a good time improvising their stories.

The music person chose the opening song
“America, the Beautiful.” She visited from play—
ground to playground teaching the three songs

APRIL 1948

Suggestion

Box

 

which all were to Sing. The theme song was writ~
ten'by a director of music to the tune of “O’
Susanna.”

Among the numbers on the program were: Hia—
watha, Ponce de Loen, Daniel Boone, Rip Van
Winkle, Pocahontas, Uncle Remus, Clementine,
Mother Goose.

Training Playground Leaders

An excellent example of training for playground
leaders, showing good planning and leadership,
took place in Lexington, Kentucky, last June in
the form of a training institute for young men and
women. The course was Sponsored by the Board
of Park Commissioners, headed'by Anna S. Pheri—
go, Director of Recreation, and was held for five
days at a camp outside of the city. The trainees
were carefully selected and shared no part of the
costs, the board paying rental for the camp and
for the food.

The program was divided into three teaching
periods a day—one for team games and activities,
one for playground games and activities for all
ages, and a two—hour evening period for folk and
square dancing and social recreation. The leaders
held tournaments in all of the games which they
would have on their own playgrounds—paddle
tennis, box hockey, deck tennis, volley ball, jacks,
checkers, horSeShoeS, bound ball, and so 0n——-
learning not only the rules but receiving practice
in umpiring, laying-out and marking courts. A
Spirit of fun and of learning prevailed throughout
the entire week.

The camp became So well-known that everyone
in the vicinity wanted to viSit it. Therefore—as a
part of local interpretation and good community
relations—the director has selected community
leaders who will See it in action this year.

31

WANTED

Graduate. regis’rerecl occupaiional
rherapisis and ’rrained recrea’rion
workers for assignmen’rs in Illinois
s’ra’re psychiatric hospitals. schools
for menial deiec’rives. children's
and correc’rional institutions. Civil
service posi’rions. good salaries. op-
poriuni’ry for advancemen’r. excel-
len’r re’rirernen’r and insurance plan.
maintenance available.

Wriie: -

Division of Personnel Sérvice

 

Department of Public Welfare -

Siaie Armory
SpringfieldI Illinois

 

   

 

Attract more bathers-bring them back more
often—with a pool that is always clean and sparkling. You
can do it if you aint with RAMUC (pronounced RAW-—
MOCK). RAM C is a. special long-lasting, waterproof
enamel that gives a gleaming, tile-like finish‘ to concrete
surfaces. RAMUC will not peel. powder, blister or flake
off; It’s easy to clean and holds its color under the strong-
est sun. No need to refinish your pool every season, either
-—-because RAMUC stays fresh and bright for years!

_ Keep water clean, tool
You can also eliminate algae in your pool with Inertol’s
fast-acting new product: EXALGAE. EXALGAE makes.
unsightly growth disappear instantly and prevents its
further development. Absolutely colorless; it will not-stain
pool finish or harin bathers’ skin or eyes.

Make youi' pool cleaner AND ,more profitable with
economical RAMUC and EXALGAE. For full informa-
tion on pool maintenance. write for Inertol’s “Swimming
Pool Handbook.” Ramuc—Exalgae, Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

INER‘I’OI. CO., INC.

470 Frelinghuysen Avenue 19 South Park
Newark 5, N. J. San Franclsco 7, Calif.

 

 

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO.

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY

32

1947 National
League Batting

Champion Champion

1947 ‘American
League Bailing

RECREATION

World at Play

 

Saluting the Boys and Girls—NATIONAL BOYS
' AND GIRLS WEEK will be observed in hundreds of
communities throughout the United States and
Canada from April 24 to May I this year. With
the theme, “Youth—Key to the Future,” the
twenty—eighth annual celebration of this important
event is designed to focus the attention of the
public on the interests, activities and problems of
youth. The activities planned for the observance
emphasize important factors in the growth of boys
and girls, including citizenship training, education,
recreation, occupational guidance, home life, un-
derstanding among nations and peoples, and mem-
bership in boys’ and girls’ organizations. Addi-
tional information regarding Boys and Girls Week,
and helpful suggestions and material for carrying
out the program of the week—including a poster
and a Manual of Suggestions—may be obtained,
free of charge, from the National Boys and Girls
Week Committee, 35 E. Wacker Drive, Chicago
I, Illinois.
0

Your Opinion, Please—Shall we have a NA-
TIONAL RECREATION WEEK?

Dorothea Lensch, Director of Recreation for the
Portland, Oregon, Bureau of Parks and Public
Recreation, has suggested that the National Rec—
reation Association consider a National Recreation
\Veek. Portland is pushing forward vigorously its
plan for a city and state-wide observation of Rec-
reation Week, to be held this April 12—17. The
National Recreation Association has a Special in-
terest in Portland’s plans, as the opening date of
this event—April 12—is the forty-second anniver—

APRIL 1948

sary of the founding of the Association. Several
other cities in the past also have held play weeks
or recreation weeks, and California has several
times observed a state-wide recreation week. In
1923, President Harding proclaimed a National
Play Week.

The National Recreation Association would "ap—
preciate receiving any suggestions as to the desir-
ability of a National Week so that, in considering
the Portland suggestions, it can have the advan-
tage ,of the best local thought and experience.
Some of the questions which occur to us are: Is
the present time auspicious to attempt a nation—
wide observance of this type? Will it help the
recreation movement nationally and locally suffi-
ciently to justify the time and effort involved?
What are the chances of success, in view of the
great number of weeks being observed at present?
(According to the latest report there are 399 na-
tional weeks.) What time of the year would be
best for most cities?

Please send us your comments on these and
other questions which occur to you, and any gen-
eral suggestions you may have that would be
helpful to us.

_ 0

Volleyball Association Confers—Twenty-
four people gathered at the mid-year meeting of
the United States Volley Ball Association in New
York City on December 10, 1947 to consider the
important developments of volleyball. Conferees
accepted a new Constitution and by-laws; dis-
cussed the 1948 issue of the Guide and.Rule Book
and the International Volley Ball Review; pre—

33

sented certificates of recognition to three men;'

authorized the appointment of a special committee
on equipment; approved the suggestion of taking
a volley ball team to Europe during the summer;
and reviewed deve10pments for the open tourna—
ment in South Bend, Indiana, May 13-15, 1948.
The date for the annual meeting of the Association
was set for May 12 in South Bend.

The December meeting in New York had been
authorized at last May’s Houston, Texas, meet-
ing for the purpose of enabling association mem-
bers to complete work and plans that will improve
the game of volley ball and strengthen the organi-
zation through which it is accomplished.

Snap That Picture-—High school amateur shut—
ter fans again have an opportunity to prove their
ability. The third National High School Photo-
graphic Awards event is in progress—sponsored
by the Eastman Kodak Company and approved by
the Contest Committee of the National Association
of Secondary School Principals. Any student who
is attending daily any of the high school grades
from the ninth to the twelfth inclusive, in a public,
parochial or private high school within the borders
of continental United States is eligible. Only black
and white snapshots may be entered and must be
in one of the five picture classifications designated:
school projects; people; scenes and still life; ani-
mals and pets; babies and small children.

The contest began on the second of February
and will close May 7, 1948. A total of 361 prizes,
ranging up to a grand prize of $500 for a single
picture, and certificates of merit will be awarded
the winners. Prints or enlargements should be
sent to the National High School Photographic
Awards, 343 State Street, Rochester 4, New York.

PICTORIAL PUBLICITY
or YOUR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

EFFECTIVE O ECONOMICAL O PROFITABLE

PICTURE POST CARDS

SOUVENIR FOLDERS

Reproduced From Your Own Photos
Write For Free Folder “R”

ARTVUE POST CARD COMPANY

225 Fifth Avenue New York 10. N. Y.

34

 

Happy Birthday—The Camp Fire Girls were
one year older on March 17. The Girls celebrated
their anniversary the entire week of March 14-20
and held. the Camp Fire Girls Professionals Con-
ference on March 18 through March 22 at the
Hotel Biltmore in Los Angeles, California.

The Boys Have Plans, Too—Three hundred
Boys’ Clubs over the country, with their more
than 275,000 members, are celebrating Boys’ Club
Week from April 5 through April II this year.
Special programs to be offered each day of the
observance include Friendship Day, Family Night,
Alumni Day, Jubilee, Know Your America Day,
Community Service Day, Church and Home Day.
Another event on the agenda is the presentation
of medals to five authors and certificates of awards
to five other authors whose books received highest
recommendations from members of the Boys’
Clubs and from the members of Boys’ Clubs of
America Junior Book Awards Committee. Write
to Iris Vinton, Director of Publications Service,
Boys’ Clubs of. America, 381 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16, for additional details. '

A Week of Creating and Playing—Puppetry-
making and using puppets, ceramics and linoleum
block printing, non-musical games and party plan-
ning, folk games and dances, singing, weaying,
nature, crafts, making of games and puzzles are
just a few of the major attractions of the 1948
Hiram Recreation WorkshOp program. The fourth -
annual workshOp will be conducted the week of
April 25-May I in the Recreation Center of the
Government’s Arsenal at Ravenna, Ohio. The
charge will be a registration fee of ten dollars,
payable with application. '

 

 

One Man Folds It. One Minute Does It.

The 1948 Nissen Ail-One Trampoline (Reg. U. 5. Pat.
Off.) wheels away to jiffy storage. Write for Free Litera—
ture and Prices on Al! Trampoiine Models.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE CO.

200 A Avenue NW Cedar Rapids, Iowa

RECREATION

 

A Baseball Backs’rop

Question—We are developing an athletic field
and have run into the problem of erecting a
suitableibackstop for baseball. On inquiring,
we find that the heavy mesh wiring that is
sometimes used is very irritating to the eyes
when viewed from a grandstand directly be-
hind the backstOp. Is there an approved con-
struction of liner wire that will be strong
enough to stay up under usage given it in a
public park and yet fine enough not to irritate
the eyes of those who are sitting behind it?

Answer—\Ve have never heard any complaint
before as to the effect of heavy mesh wiring upon
the eyes nor do we know of any approved“ con-
struction of finer wire strong enough to 'stay up
under such strenuous usage.

The only suggestions which we can make to
you are two: the first is for you to get in touch
with wire manufacturing companies asking for
advice and information concerning the various
types of wire that can be used for backstops.

The second is the possible use of reinforced
glass. This, of course, would be expensive but
would certainly eliminate your problem. One of
our planning specialists says that this has been
used somewhat on an experimental basis in several
instances and he thinks it will soon be generally
accepted.

The heavy No. 6 or No. 9 two—inch mesh wire
is used very widely in park departments because
it is strong and durable.

APRIL 1948

Questions About—

Teen Can’reens

Question—I find that you have some litera-
ture concerning canteens for teen-age chil-
dren. I am very interested in this subject and
hope that I may be able to obtain legitimate
literature to aid me in my task of persuading
city governments, department stores and
other business firms to establish these can-
teens in cities of size.

Having been a juvenile delinquent myself,
I know how much these things would have
aided me if they had been available at the
time when I needed them. For you see, I am
now, and have been for the past eight years,
in the penitentiary. I hope in my meager way
to help to prevent others from following in
the same path.

Answer—Ever since 1941 there has been a great
deal of interest in this subject, fostered, of course,
by the effect of war on the teen-age boys and girls.
Teen centers have sprung up all over the country
in both large and small communities. They are
generally accepted new as a form of recreation
and are being sponsored more and more often by
public . recreation departments rather. than by
private individuals or agencies. We do not doubt
that they have been of tremendous value in com-
bating juvenile delinquency. We know that many
factors, such as home environment and the like,
are involved. We also know, however, from many
studies that have been made, that when a com-
munity provides adequate recreation areas and
facilities andmwhich is more important-“trained
professional leadership, the youngsters are far less
likely to be found in taverns, on the street and
engaging in other types of non-social behavior.

35

 

inn --

AllElthllN Al’l’lilllllll]

Playground & Swimming
Pool Equipment

{3 Q/ou and other experienced buyers
know the wisdom of demanding abundant re-

serve strength, proven performance and abso-
lute safety in your Playground and Swimming
Pool Equipment. You know, too, that only
highest quality equipment will assure you these
vitally essential features. Perhaps that’s why
so many of you today are placing your confi—
dence in American” Approved Equipment. Like
thousands of satisfied American clients, you’ve
found that unexcelled workmanship, greater
strength, rugged durability and complete safety
are but a few of the many superior features you
get when you buy AMERICAN.

 

36

 

It takes longer to build ARIEBICAN

AMERICAN Approved Equipment is constructed
exclusively of top quality Steels, Certified Malle-
ables and finest, carefully seasoned Hardwoods,
all of which‘ continue to be in critically short sup—
ply. Thus, although there are many short—cutsto
quicker deliveries, American Approved Equipment
just naturally can’t be built and shipped as
promptly today as in normal times, if we are to
maintain American’s rigid pre—war quality stand—
ards. You’ll benefit in the long run, however; for
superior American Approved Equipment will be
serving you well many years after inferior, sub-
stitute-built apparatus has had to be discarded.

*  today for Catalogs and descriptive Literature.

Learn why it’s worth waiting a bit longer for American!

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE C0.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

World’s Largest Exclusive Alanufacturers of Fine Outdoor

Playground, Swimming Pool and Home Play Equipment

RECREATION

, “At Headquarters . . .

Thomas E. Rivers

 

HE SIGHT OF Tom Rivers, carrying on busi-
Tness in a quiet and friendly fashion at'the
National Recreation Congress, is a familiar one
to recreation people, for he has been Secretary of
the Congress for the last twenty-five years. Tom
is that rather tall man, with sparse, graying hair
and a big smile, who seems to be everywhere at
once. During a long period of devoted service to
recreation interests he has become well-known to
workers in this and other countries.

All suggestions for the large cooperative ven-
ture, which is the Congress, are centralized on
Tom’s desk; and his is the general responsibility
for pulling them together. Actually, this respon-
sibility entails continuous and energetic activity
throughout the year in an attempt to get ideas
from as wide a range of pe0p1e as possible on all
phases of program, to set up the series of meet-
ings, demonstrations, workshops which are a part
of the central purpose of the Congress—that of
exchanging information, experience and ideas.

Mr. Rivers points out that, in his opinion, one
of the finest things about the National Recreation
Congress is that it is not a legislative body and,
therefore, is a gathering wherein peOple can feel
free to be themselves, and to air their opinions
frankly. Discussion need not be hampered by poli-
tical considerations. Other purposes of the Con-
gress are to help with promotion and interpreta-

APRIL 1948

tion of recreation work to the country at large; to
provide workers and all interested people with an
opportunity to hear, and talk with, outstanding
personalities in the recreation field; and to help
recreation in the area in which the meeting is held.

He says, “As the Congress has grown in size,
we have tried to work out Ways and means of
keeping it close to the people.” This year the great
interest in recreation in rural areas and small
towns has led to the choice of Omaha, Nebraska,
as a location in the heart of rural America.

Another of Tom River’s responsibilities, one
that in itself should be enough to keep him busy,
is that of fund raising for the National Recreation
Association which, as a service organization, is
supported by contributions.

“Over 400 sponsors, some of them the outstand-
ing men and women of America, have enlisted in
the great task of backing up the recreation move-
ment,” he relates proudly. “It has been very satis-
fying to be responsible for helping people to see
the value of putting money into this work.”

From time to time, Mr. Rivers also has been
responsible for helping with the Association’s co-
operative projects with various federal depart—
ments in Washington, including services in the
first world war—when he acted as Secretary of
President Coolidge’s Outdoor Recreation Confer-
ence, special services during the depression and
during the recent war when staff was recruited for
the Office of War Community Services—the de-
partment which was reSponsible for supervising all
the recreation work for the armed forces.

For 10 these many years, Tom Rivers has been
interested in working with and helping people. As
a young man, he chose the University of WiscOn-
sin as an outstanding example of a university ,
which was attempting to relate the work of the
college to the people. While serving as student
assistant to the university pastor, he became in-
terested in community center work and helped to
start activities for boys in a neighborhood school.

He joined the staff of National Recreation As-
sociation immediately after graduation, doing field
work in the South until the Army claimed hini._

After the war he plunged into work as acting
manager of the Association personnel bureau, and
was responsible for the vigorous recruiting pro-
gram which was necessary. Later, in .1926, he
helped to organize the graduate division of the
National Recreation School and served as secre-
tary of the division during a ten year period.

In spite of the pressure of professional obliga-
tions, Tom Rivers has found time to be active in
community affairs in his hometown of Bronxville,

37

Specific information for future recreation workers

Here is a new introductory survey which empha-

C O   sizes the practical aspects of recreation tech-
niques. Stress is placed on public recreation,

since this is the field of greatest interest for most

E A recreation workers. The many forces, resources,

RE   and interests required to provide a total commu-
' nity recreation program are tellingly described

and discussed. Tables, charts, diagrams, and

over sixty photographs stimulate the student’s

interest in his subject. COMMUNITY RECREATION

offers exceptional study aids. Each chapter ends

with aWorkshop divided into two parts: questions

for exploration and questions for planning. In

addition to full references, there is a helpful ap-

pendix listing films about various phases of rec-
reation, the chief recreation agencies, and some

. . supply houses selling e uipment and facilities.
and Brtghtblll q

D. C. HEATH AND COMPANY

New York Chicago Atlanta Dallas San Francisco

By Meyer

A lively, responsive ball develops skillful players-adds to the thrills of the game. r v r The con-
struction of WEAVER Softball and Playball assures lively—responsive action. v r rThe WEAVER
Softball has a long fabric kapok center, is double yarn wound, with tough cover realistic in
appearance and processed to give soft. velvety feel. r r vThe WEAVER Playball is the only
scholastic playball made, which is perfectly round. It contains 65% crude rubber with patented
fool-proof valve. Both "BEST by TEST” reasons for specifying WEAVER.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES C0. p.05315???1‘s8355MF?€{H‘sTt§§5s‘ui‘il‘éliifn.

 

38 RECREATION

New York. Among these can be listed, of all
things, money raising for the community chest,
Red Cross and church. He is a gardening and
fishing enthusiast, having enjoyed surf-casting and
sailing practically in the front yard of his summer
cottage on Fire Island, until the last hurricane

wiped it away; he restores antique furniture.
He is quite the family man and speaks proudly

of his two daughters and a son, all in college. The
family has played a great deal together, and had
fun with a family orchestra when the children
were young. At that time the household was over-
run with petsu—from mice to snakes, and the back-
yard was the neighborhood playground. None of
the pets proved troublesome except, perhaps, the
mice. Ah, welll—times change, and what with a
daughter studying to be a zoologist, the situation

 

People in Recreation

New Appointment

RUSSELL A. PERRY, Director of Recreation, \Vil—
mette, Illinois, has accepted the appointment
as State Recreation Consultant in Illinois. Mr.
Perry, who will begin his new duties August I.
will be responsible to the Division of Youth and
Community Service of the Department of Public
\Velfare. He will also serve as Secretary of the
Illinois Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation.
Before going to W’ilmette last year, Russell
Perry had been Director of Recreation in Aurora.
Illinois, since 1935. He is a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Illinois.

Apprentice Fellow Takes Position

THE APPOINTMENT OF David J. DuBois to the
position of Program Planning and Training
.\dvisor under the Department of Parks and Rec—
reation in King County, Washington, comes as a
reward for the strenuous training schedule he has
carried in Tacoma, Washington. Under the able
guidance -and close supervision of the Superinten—
dent of Recreation, Thomas Lantz, Mr. DuBois’
training has been thorough as well as extensive.

David DuBois was granted a Henry Strong
Dennison Apprentice'Fellowship in the spring of
1947. His teaching experience and study in pub—
lic administration at Denver University had been
interrupted by the war. In the Army from 1943
to 1946, his service included information and edu-
cation and public relations work. Mr. DuBois’
background in journalism and his many extracur-
ricula activities in college were of great help in
preparing him for his successful experiences in
coping with public relations problems and assign—
ments for the Army neWSpaper while he was in
Austria with the 83rd Infantry Division. After
military service, Mr. DuBois enrolled at Columbia
University where he received his Master’s Degree
in the field of social science.

APRIL 1948

Note from Berlin

“AT LAST I’M on the job here and what a job
there is to be done! In spite of the suffering

from cold and hunger, hundreds of young people
are alert and keen to work out new ways of doing
things. For the past month I’ve been working
with these young peOple as well as with the Bur-
germeisters and other community leaders on a
leadership training project. The great need for
this was apparent before I’d been here a week.
“VVe’re opening January 19 and will be able to
give special recreation and community service
training to about 1,500 this winter and spring.”
This note was received from Howard Johnston,
recently appointed NDirector of Youth Activities
in the American zone in- the Berlin area. Mr.
Johnston and Austin Welch were the two men
selected by Dr. C. Arild Olson, liaison representa-
tive between General Clay’s staff and the Civil
Affairs Branch of the Military Government in
Germany, who made a trip last spring to the
United States in an effort to recruit a number of
educators and two youth serving directors. Dr.
Olson came to the National Recreation Associa-
tion for assistance in locating the latter two. Sev—
eral prOSpects were suggested and Mr. Johnston

and Mr. Welch were selected.

Howard Johnston was trained on the Associa-
tion’s apprentice program prior to the war. Be-
fore seeing service for several years in the South
Pacific during the war years, he had served as
Superintendent of Recreation in Centralia, Illinois.

Austin VVelch served on the local staff in Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, and as State Director of Recreation
for the VVPA in Kentucky, and more recently as
Recreation Specialist with the Federal Public
Housing Authority. Mr. Welch is now Director
of Activities in the Greater Hesse area of Ger-
many.

39

There is no stronger

   
   

endorsement!

, JACK KRAMER

DASH MARKING . _ _
For easy identification on the courts Wilson Championship
, tennis balls are stamped with dash marks—1 to 4 dashes.

  

Jack Kramer and Bobby Riggs, the world’s top-
ranking tennis players, put a racket through
grueling tests as to performance and durability.
It must perform and stand up.

These champions have used Wilson rackets
and Championship balls exclusively since
their earliest amateur days . . . and
still do. Don Budge, Alice Marble,
Pauline Betz and Mary Hardwick also

use and recommend Wilson. There

is no stronger endorsement than

this . . . no better basis upon which

to choose and specify tennis equip-

ment. Wilson “Strata-Bow” rackets

and “Championship” balls will

provide your recreation program
with the finest.

Players mentioned are retained as members of the Wilson Advisory Staf.

.
The LAST WORD in Spon‘s EquipmentL

40 a RECREATION

V. K. Brown Retires

“ TEPPING OUT, what
can one say in fare—

well to his associates of so
many years?” So spoke
V. K. Brown as he retired
in February from his posi-
tion as Chief of the Recre-
ation Division of the Chi-
cago Park District.

' “If the years have taught
me any wisdom at all for a final word it is this:
Don’t let yourself get into ruts! Something dies in
both you and the service when you go stale. . . . Lie
awake nights if you have to, but keep your programs
fresh! Aim always at doing big things together, as
a whole department. . . . Tackle things tough enough
to require the united effort of all of you.”

In honor of the sixty-five-year-old leader who
served Chicago for twenty-eight years, Howard
Braucher, President of the National Recreation
Association, has written: '

“Since 1909 I have known V. K. and always as
a personal friend and comrade. Of course sdme—
times we have differed profoundly on matters of
policy, but V. K. has never wanted for his friends
only those who agree with him. Always V. K. has
been original, creative, with the Spirit of a pioneer,
facing problems from the human point of view,
concerned more, it seemed to me, over the quality
and the spirit of the recreation service than over
quantity. From his early days he has been a states—

 

man and a leader. In congresses and district meet-_

ings and in individual conferences he has ever been
ready to make his experience available to others.
The load he has carried in Chicago year in and year

out has been exceedingly heavy, but he has seemed.

to! carry it with ease and always with distinction.”

L. H. Weir, field secretary of the Association,
also pays tribute to Mr. Brown:

“Among the leaders of the nation who have
mightily advanced . the recreation movement in
America, V. K. Brown is distinguished by his
vision, wide range of knowledge, interpretative
powers, leadership qualities and organizing ability.
His forty years or more of service in the recrea-
tion movement have been lighted by a missionary
zeal and a fervent belief that within leisure hours
people individually may find the opportunity for
joyous and more abundant living and that the
spirit of friendliness and neighborliness in com-
munal living maybe made the prevailing rule.”

APRIL 1948

  

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
.

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond States and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

Now Available!

A Guide for Planning Facilities
for Athletics. Recreation. Phys-
ical and Health Education

A composite guide of 125 pages developed by 65
authorities in a National Facilities Conference epon-
sored by fourteen national agencies and associations.

For school superintendents, their boards, park and
recreation leaders, ' health and physical education
administrators and supervisors, architects, engineers,
and other civic and professional leaders interested
in functional planning of modern facilities.

Price $1.50 postpaid
Order from

American Association for Health.

Physical Education.and Recreation
IZOI |6th St., N.W., Washington 6. D. C.

01'

The Athletic Institute
209 South State StreetI Chicago 4. Illinois

 

 

41

IMMEDIATE DELIVERY!

 

no. 38 combination

Varied as a 3-rz'ng circus—yet oh! so compact and so economical!
That’s the Porter N o. 38 Combination—a playground unit that
packs six different kinds of funful, healthful recreation into a
ground area of only 20 x 30 feet! Just look at the variety—
Two Standard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a
pair of Flying Rings, one Trapeze and one 16-ft. Porter
Safety Slide— plus the sturdy 10-ft. steel frame that is galva-
nized inside and out and held rigidly together with Tested Mal-
leable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design. Write today
for the surprisingly low price, and complete specifications.

 
  

 

  
 

write for illustrated bulletin on Porter’s 1948
streamliued line that will save you money... .time!

I .
|' 1'

‘ ‘ he: __

:1 k" in:-

 

THE J. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

0 *
Excluswe MAKERS OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM EELTJE'TNUiE
' . *Req. U. 5. Pat. Off.

42 RECREATION

.Recreation Training Institutes

April and May

Eugene, Oregon
April 7-9, 12, 13
Yakima, Washington
April 19-23 .
Tacoma, Washington
April 27, 28; May 4-6
Spokane, Washington
May 10-14

Boise, Idaho
May 17-21

Idaho Falls, Idaho
May 24-28

Memphis, Tennessee
April 19-23

Frankfort, Kentucky
April 26-30
Chattanooga, Tennessee
May 3-7'

Birmingham, Alabama
May 10-14

ANNE LIVINGSTON . Punta Gorda, Florida
April 8-10

Fort Pierce, Florida
April'12-14

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

Social Recreation

West Palm Beach, Florida

April 15—17 .

Miami, Florida
April 26-28

Kansas City, Missouri r

May 24-28
FRANK STAPLES Elna-mil3 F6lorida
f pm] -1
Arts and cm ts Miami Beach, Florida
April 5-16

Pittsiield, Massachusetts

April 26-May 7

Syracuse New York
May 10-é1

Omaha, Nebraska
May 24-28

Jefferson City, Missouri

May 31-June 4

ALICE VAN LANDINGHAM Parkersburg, West Virginia

Social Recreation May 10- 14

GRACE WALKER

Creative Recreation Apr” 5'16

Providence, Rhode Island

April 19-23
Dayton, Ohio
April 26-30

Tuscaloosa, Alabama
May 3-7

Chattanooga, Tennessee

May 10-14

Toledo, Ohio
May 17-21

Kansas City, Missouri
May 24-Ju-ne 4

APRIL 1948

New Haven, Connecticut

Don January, Director of Recreation.

Howard Schaub, Director of Physical Education
Board of Education '

Mrs. H. S. Whitman, Council of Social Agencies
S. G. Witter, Director of Recreation
Bob Gibbs, Director of Physical Education

Jim Infelt, General Secretary, Y.M.C.A.

Chauncey Banbour, Superintendent'of Recreation
Alfred Elliott, Superintendent of Recreation
Ed. Hargraves, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Agnes C. Henagan, Supervisor of Recreation

Dean B. C. Riley, University of Florida, Gainesville

Woodrow Austin, 2403 Tracy Street

Pete Roberts, Superintendent of Recreation
B. B. Wheeler, Superintendent of Public Recreation

Mrs. Corinne Conte, Supervisor of Girls, Park Com-
mission
Mrs. Helena Hoyt, Superintendent of Recreation

R. B. McClintock, Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation, 601 City Hall

Ben Porter, Director of Parks and Recreation

William Pearson, Director, Wood County Recreation
Commission

Norman Watts, Director, Dixwel-l Community House,
98 Dixwell Avenue

Joseph G. .Le Count, Secretary, John Hope Commu-
nity Assomation, 103 Westminster Street

Clarence L. Thomas, Executive Director, Lin-den Com-
munity Center, 334 Norwoo-d Avenue

S. W. Washington, Jr., Tuscaloosa Community Center,
3005—18th Street

Ed. Hargraves, Superintendent of Recreation

William A. Smith, Jr., Executive Direct-or, Frederick
Douglass Community Association, 201 Pinewood Ave.

Woodrow Austin, 2403 Tracy Street

43

tandard tests weren't good
enough to prove the durability of
Voit balls. So we pounded one over
800,000 times in our “Wrench-
ing" machine. We bounced others
under game conditions on con-
crete over 500,000 times. We sub-
merged one under the ocean for
six months; we shock tested by

dropping balls 10,000 feet from
airplanes —we devised all sorts

of fiendish tortures for Voit CB2’s
and XBZO’s—result—we must ad-
mit with pardonable pride that
Voit is America's finest athletic

equipment.

FROM BALE TO BALL . . .
V0” DOES IT ALL!

NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES 11

%73W Iii:sz
a/%/€JZ'* gM/IMZ/

RECREATION

 

Authors in This Issue

HAROLD HAINFELD—Director of Summer Play—
grounds, Tenafly, New Jersey. Article on page 5.

GLENN W’ILCOX—Director of Physical Work,
Recreation Department, Fort Worth, Texas. Ar—
ticle on page 6.

HERBERT B. MULFORD—Recreation Department,
\Vilmette, Illinois. Article on a e .
P g 9

ROBERT L. HORNEv—Superintendent of Recre—
ation, Peoria, Illinois. Article on page 12.

C. E. BREWER—Recreation for Industrial Em—
ployees, National Recreation Association. Article

on page 14.
EDGAR A. TOWNE—A nineteen-year—Old under—
graduate at the college of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio.

V ERA-MAY LEWIS—-Senl0r Playground Direc-
tor, Department Of Parks and Recreation, County
Of Los Angeles, California. Article on page 19.

ALICE KANE—Librarian, Boys and Girls House
of the Public Libraries, Toronto, Canada. Arti-
cle on page 20.

ELLEN M CCOMB—On staff of University Hos-
pital School, University of Michigan. Article on

page 27.

My mother says if you would read
THE SURVEY, you would KNOW

about sociometry

The boy’s mother is right, too. Even if she
can’t speak English, she can still spot a
social worker or a visiting nurse who lacks
the knowledge to understand her problem.
If you would operate intelligently in social
work or in civic affairs, why not subscribe
now to THE SURVEY midmonthly, a maga-
zine which reduces “sociometry” and other
professional words you should know about
to understandable terms of vital human
problems? One year, $4; with SURVEY
GRAPHIC, 36. Make out your check to
Survey Associates, Inc., and mail it to:

THE SURVEY

112 E. 19 STREET, NEW YORK 3,
NEW YORK

APRIL 1948

 

347 MADISON AVENUE

 

  
 

 

Specia/pre-pud/icaiion O/lér
goocl art/y unii/ Way 15!

ADMINISTRATION OF
THE MODERN CAMP

Hedley S. Dimock, Editor

  

Running the modern camp efficiently, safely, economi-
cally, and with the maximum joy for staff and camp-
ers is a big job.

Administration of the Modern Camp is a big, com-
prehensive book on how to do that job. It was written
for camp directors and all who carry administrative
and supervisory responsibility for an organized camp.
Eleven recognized leaders who have wide experience
in camp administration, working with Hedley S.
Dimock as general editor, cooperated to make this
one-volume guidebook on every aspect of camp man-
agement, covering the principles, functions, and pro-
cedures essential to efficient and effective administra-
tion. Here is detailed help for you on organization of
a camp, committees and boards, staff selection, train-
ing and supervision, program, health and safety, lay-
out and plant, business administration, property and
equipment management, appraisal, interpretation and
promotion, etc.

Harvie J. Boorman, Catherine T. Hammett, John A.
Ledlie, Roy Sorenson, Louis H. Blumenthal, Charles
E. Hendry, and others share their experience with

you through this book. '
Ready in May. List price, $4.00

SPECIAL PRE~PUBLICATION PRICE, $3.50
if ordered now

DECADE OF GROUP WORK
Charles E. Hendry, Editor

Group work in public recreation, camping, health and
physical education, in child services, therapy, workers' edu-
cation, in rural areas, housing developments. and many
other forms is recorded and projected in this symposium in
which many experts participated. Here is an important
reference and source book for all those who work with
people. $2.50

ADMINISTRATION OF

GROUP WORK
Louis H. Blumenthal

Wherever people are playing, working, or learning in
groups their leaders, bosses, and teachers must make de-
cisions that are democratic and at the same time effective
in results. In this blueprint for executives, human rela-
tions are integrated with the administrative machine; demo-
cratic theory is translated into action by methods consistent
with the principle. Mr. Blumenthal is concerned with the_
human organization in the institutional setting. He shows
the democratic approach to management and administra-
tion in action in concrete, day-by-day situations. His book
is a usable guide for all administrative personnel. $3.50

. . . . . .Save [Money -- Clip and- Mail Now! . . . . . .

Please send me the books checked:

[:1 ADMINISTRATION OF THE MODERN CAMP,

special $3.50
[:1 DECADE OF GROUP WORK, $2.50
[:1 ADMINISTRATION OF GROUP WORK, $3.50

Payment herewith.................. Charge my account [:1
Name .................................................................................. ..
Street .................................................................................. ..

City ...................................... .. Zone ........ .. State ................ ..

Jddéociaiion press

NE\V YORK 17., N. Y.

. 45

Books Received

 

Art of Chinese Paper Folding, The, 'by Maying Soong.
Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York. $2.50.
Flower Arrangement, by Matilda Rogers. The Woman’s

Press, New York. $1.50.
Games for Two, by Albert H. Morehead and Geoffrey

Mott-Smith. The John C. W'inston Company, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. $2.00.

Good Housekeeping Needlecraft Encyclopedia, The,
edited by Alice Carroll. Rinehart and Company, New
York. $3.75.

Highpochets, by John R. Tunis. William Morrow and

Company, New York. $2.50.

 

Don’t buy until you see our tree, illustrated catalog. Write Today!

WW

sports equipment co.

FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN
umosr A HALF (return or unornsmr

in every iield of sperl in Profits»
sionol.$emi-Pro and Amateur Bose-
ball and Softball, in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
meipol and industrial Recreation,
MacGregor-Goidsmiih Sports
Equipment is recognized as e he'l-
rnarl: oi quality and unvorying
perfmmanee.

el eelleeal pun“
.‘_ (“INCINNASI 14.0H'l0,.|l.5.l

 

 __W¢W” fm fw-  

46

New Playround Notebook

The weekly mailing of the new 1948 THE PLAY-
GROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK will start in
April. In loose leaf form, this will consist of sixteen
separate issues. The service is free to communities,
with a summer program only, if an official will send
us the name of the person in charge, or it can be
ordered for $1.50 by any community having a year-
round recreation program. Many recreation depart-
ments order for each of their playground leaders.

Order Now I

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 FOURTH AVENUE NEW YORK 10, NEW YORK

WANT TO EAR/V
=S‘9oono A YEAR?

 

Then here’s your chance to
enter a business Offering an
Opportunity for unlimited
earnings . . . plus the satisfac-
tion of rendering a worthwhile
community service. Many of
our representatives earn $4,000
to $9,000 a year, and more!

To pre-determine your qual-
‘ ifications for success as a life
insurance salesman, send for our
scientific Aptitude Test. After
taking the test, you’ll hear
from our manager in or near
your community. If you qual—
ify, we Offer a special income
plan to help you become es—
tablished, and a 3-year on-
the-job training course.

After that, the Mutual Life—

time Compensation Plan pro-
vides liberal commissions, with
a comfortable retirement in-
come at 65. Just send the
coupon below for the Aptitude
Test.

'I'HE MUTUAL lIFE

INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK

34 Nassau Street Alexander E. Patterson
New York 5. NY. President
FIRST IN AMERICA

PLEASE SEND APTITUDE TEST

 

ADDRESS ’
CITY 1 l 12
RECREATION

 

The Trip Camp Book

Girl Scouts, National Organization, New 'York.
$75-

EVERY YOUNG PERSON dreams of following wind-

ing streams and side roads, of sleeping under
the stars. Here is a pamphlet to help make that
dream come true. Dealing in detail with planning,
preparation, camp sites, budget and equipment for
a variety of trip camps including the walking trip,
bicycle trip, wagon or pack trip, boat or canoe trip
and motor trip, it is a guide for both leaders and
trippers. Here are suggestions as to how to make
trip camping an experience long to be cherished.

Good Times in the Rural Church .

Edward L. Schlingman. The Christian Education
Press, Philadelphia. $1.25.

WELL WORTH LOOKING into is this pamphlet

which explores the possibilities of good fun
with farm or near-farm inhabitants. It deals with
such subjects as facilities, organization of program,
year-round activities and games for various ages,
leadership tasks, cooperation between the church
and the school and the home, and home play. An

-excellent bibliography for a recreation library is
included.

Nature Quests and Quizzes

Raymond T. Fuller. John Day Company, New
York. $1.50. "

AUNIQUE VOLUME that offers fun and instruc-

tion to every reader. The book is in two
parts—the first, a series of one hundred nature-
quests such as “Finding a Spotted Salamander” or
“Telling the Age of a Tree.” The second part is
made up of one hundred nature questions enabling
you' to examine yourself, or to put the questions to

your friends. An entertaining and amusing intro-
duction to nature study! '

APRIL 1948

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

Child’s Book of Carpentry

Jeanne Taylor. Greenberg: Publisher, New York.
$2.50.
CHILDREN LIKE TO build things. This little book,
written for the young child himself, is simple
in text, filled with colorful drawings, and gives
six different projects for the child to construct——
a boat, a bookcase, a footstool, a chest, a picture
frame, a chair——explaining the various steps, nec-
essary tools and their proper use. An appendix
offers sound advice to the parent or teacher. A
book to help children learn to make useful things
and to gradually develop skills which will give
them great pleasure. '

OHicers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors
HOWARD BRAUCH ER, President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.
MRS. RoRERT WoODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York, N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBETT, Portland, Ore.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NoRMAN HARRoWER, Fitchburg, Mass. I
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESoN, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
OTTo T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E .MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MooRE, JR., New York, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITswoRTH, Noroton, Conn.
J. C. W'ALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. VVARRURG, New York, N. Y.

48

 

TO YOUNG WORKING GIRLS -
WHETHER IN LOVE OR NOT

When a young girl goes to work, she is apt to

look on her job pretty much as a fill-in be-
tween maturity and marriage.

Whether in love or not, she’s coniident that
a handsome breadwinner will come along . . .

to provide her with a nice combination of bliss
and security.

“So why,” she may ask, “should I save
money out of what I make?”

There are a number of reasons why—all
good ones. For example:

(A) The right man might not happen along

for some time.

(B) Having money of her own is a comfort
to any woman, no matter how successfully she
marries.

So We urge all working girls—if you’re not
buying U.S. Savings Bonds on a Payroll Plan,
get started now.

It’s an easy, painless, and automatic way to
set aside money for the future. In ten years,

’ you’ll get back $4 for every $3 you put in.

Remember, girls—having money of your
own may not make you more attractive, but it
certainly won’t make you less!

AUTOMATIC SAVING IS SURE SAVING - U. S. SAVINGS BONDS

«Iv-c:
Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the
1,9” .6! Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.
'1'“!

RECREATION

0000000300000000000600000000 00000000000000000000 0000000000000000000 00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

00000000000 00000000000000000 00000000000000000000000 0000000000000000000000000 0000000000000000

Playground Program Suggestions

You can never tell these days whether the sun is going to beam on play activities
or be interrupted by a Sprinkling of rain. So it’s best to be prepared for all emer-
gencies. Fun is fun whether you’re outdoors or forced by temperamental clouds to
run for shelter. The following list of material, obtainable from the National Recrea-
tion Association, should be of great assistance to you in planning all-weather recrea-

tion programs.

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader. . .5150

(A comprehensive book with illustrations,
general information, a project outline and a
section giving directions for making various
articles.)

Craft Projects that Can Be Made with Inex-
pensive and Discarded Materials (MP 256) . .20

Let’s Make Things (MP 274) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35

(A handcraft party.)
Liberty Ship Models (MP 363) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
(MP 364) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

(Plans for making model liberty ships. The
plans contained in MP 363 are more elab-

orate.) ‘
DRAMA
Easy Stunts (MP 233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Entertainment Stunts (MP 170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
How to Produce a Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

(The steps involved in play production
from choosing the play to the final check-
up are outlined, with suggestions for make-
up, costuming, lighting, and scenery.)

Play Production Made Easy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

(A guide for the inexperienced play pro-
ducer. Also includes pantomines, skits and
very short plays.)

GAMES AND SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

Day Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50

(Organization, administration and program
for camping fun.)

88 Successful Play Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60

(These activities run the gamut from kite
flying and marbles to music, drama and
winter sports.)

For the Storyteller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
(Stories to tell and how to tell them effec-
tively.)

Games for Boys and Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

(He-man activities! Active and quiet
games, stunts, contests and other fun-filled
ideas.)

Games for Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

(Activities for a variety of ages, from
tiny tots up to teensters.)

Games for Quiet Hours and Small Spaces. . . . .50

(More than 160 games and stunts that can
be played almost anytime, anywhere.)

Hands Up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .35
(Hand games, tricks and linger play.)

Stunts, Contests and Relays (MP 326) . . . . . . .. .10
(For use where space and action are re-
stricted.)

Suggestions for an Amateur Circus (MP 26).. .35

(How to create the “greatest Show on
earth”)

Treasure Hunts (MP 212) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

(Excitement, adventure and loads of fun
in these hints for hunts.)

MUSIC

Action Songs (MP 325) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .20

(Songs which provide fun and exercise for
large groups where space is limited.)

Annotated Bibliography for Music Leaders in

Camp, Playground, Recreation Center (MP
303) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .15

Community and Assembly Singing . . . . . . . . . .. .60

SIMPLE SQUARE DANCES
AND DANCING

Barn Dance Returns, The . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

(Complete plans for a rollicking and fun-
iilled old-fashioned barn dance.)

"Good Morning,” by Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Ford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .50
(Old-time dances with music, calls and tig-
ures.)

Musical Mixers and Fun for Threesomes.each .50

(Both booklets contain suggestions for gay
dancmg activities with almost any number
of participants.)

SOCIAL RECREATION

Indoor Carnival . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

Money-Raising Stunts (MP 11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
(For fun and funds.)

Pan American Carnival (MP 312) . . . . . . . . . . . . .25

(Songs, games, dances and other entertain-
ments enjoyed 1n our neighboring coun-

tries.)
Twice 55 Games with Music, published by C.
C. Birchard and Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
(Singing games and rounds for all age
groups.)

00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 ‘

00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000M00000000000000000000000.0000000000000000000000000000000000.00000000000000‘

00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000'00000000000000000000000 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

“ XPERIENCE has taught me that you can
expect cooperation from the public in the

care ofMparks ,and recreation grounds only if
yougive themk'the best; that is, if you give them
something (that is obviously suitable, adequate,
durable, and perhaps even a little imposing.
Shabby playgrounds get pretty rough treatment
from the average, boy. They give him nothing
to be proud'of.” “ i N

—Robert Moses in «“You Can

’Trust the Public,”"The Amer-
ican Magazine, July 1938.

