 

Contents

 

December 1948

At Christmas Time (Editorial), New Equipment . . . . , , , _ _ _ , _ , , _ , , _ . 431
by Howard BraHCher ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 385 Dr. C. B. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
Help wanted: women Par-tners John Sharp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431
for Recreation Leadership,
by Margaret Hickey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 389 I
On Recruiting Volunteers . . . . . . . . . . . . 392 ChrIStmaS
Dorothy C. Enderis Retires, Everywhere Christmas To-night,
by Howard Brancher , , , , _ , , , , , , , , _ 393 by Phillips Brooks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
Mount Vernon, New York, by R. Walter Letter to Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 387
GammaCk (American Cities in Rech- Suggestions for Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . 388
ation Series, Part III) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395
Hollywood Night,
by Fern Allen Schwankl . . . . . . . . . . . 401 Regular Features

Ice Varieties of 1948 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404 World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 415

Water-(3010f Painting 15 F1111 - - - - - o - - - - 406 Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 422

5031’ carVing - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 408 Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . . 425

Painting 18 Popular ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ° 4‘09 Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Recreation Trends in the Rural commu' Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

nity, by A. F. Wileden . . . . . . . . . . . . . 410 B l R . d 429

Rural Recreation—South Carolina Way 414 00 {S ecelve ' ° ° ° ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '

Creating an Illusion9 by John H. D ahn . o 416 New Publlcatlons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 432
Recreation Institutes . . . . .Inside Back Cover

Americans All,

by Mary Barnum Bush Hauck . . . . . . 418
High School Club System . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
A Junior Football Program,

by Marshall R. Laird . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 420
City Planning Week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 423
Don B. Dyer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424
Finding and Keeping Volunteers,

by Katherine V. Fortinberry . . . . . . . . 427

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: 1948 National High
School Photographic Awards for photograph by Julius Wade-1
kamper of Lonsdale, Minnesota, page 386; Dennison Manufac-

turing Company, page 387; Milwaukee Sentinel, page 393;
Mount Vernon Daily Argus and Mount Vernon Police Depart-
ment, pages 395-400; United States Department of Agriculture
Extension Service, page 431.

 

 
     
 
   

ON THE COVER: Christmas “Yawning”—a sleepy, but deter-

mined, youngster waits for Santa. Photograph by Jack Gibbs of
Omaha, Nebraska, first prize-winner, Babies and Small Children
Class of the 1948 National High School Photographic Awards.

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.; is on f11e in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12, 1929, at the Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3. 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948. by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO, NUMBER NINE

PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Recreation

 

December 1948

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

At ,. Olhriztmaa wimp

Lord God of all, "t
We thank thee for the children.

We thank thee for the youth.

We thank thee that this thy world is still unfinished;

That there is in it still the spirit of youth;

That there is a chance still to make this a world of greater joy and strength for boys and girls;

That there is a deep desire in the hearts of men to make this a world suited to little children, where all little
children shall be happy.

Lord God of all,

We thank thee for the spirit of brotherhood and comradeship which prevails at the Christmas time.
We thank thee for the spirit of giving, the Spirit of sharing;

For the desire to see all others as happy as we are ourselves;

For the desire to know what really matters for ourselves and for others;

For the desire that what matters most for us shall be open to all others.

Lord" God of all,
We thank thee for America.

We thank thee for the holy places set aside in this our country for the joy of the people for eternity.

We thank thee that we have a country that has dedicated itself to the ideal of joyous daily living, of fun
each day.

We thank thee that our fathers and our fathers’ fathers thought of this country of ours from the beginning
as dedicated to freedom and the pursuit of happiness.

Lord God of all,

May this corner of thy world, America, increasingly be truly thine;
May songs and dancing come from deep within.
May the bells ring out joy and strength on all the days of the year as on Christmas Day.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

385

 

iveeyw/wze C/Lciaimaa Q —/l/l:ié[

Phillips Brooks

CHRISTMAS in lands of the fir tree and pine,
Christmas in lands of the pahn tree and vine;
Christmas where snow peaks stand solemn and white,
Christmas where cornfields lie sunny and bright;
Everywhere, everywhere Christmas to-night!

So the stars of the midnight which compass us round,
Shall see a strange glory and hear a sweet sound,
And cry, “Look! the earth is aflame with delight,
0 sons of the morning rejoice at the sight.”
Everywhere, everywhere Christmas to-night!

*Reprinted by permission of E. P. Dutton and Company, New York.

386 RECREATION

DECEMBER 1948

 

Is There a Santa Claus?

Many years have passed since the editor of the New York Sun sat down to
answer a letter from a worried eight-yeahold reader. It had shaken her whole world
to have someone tell her that there is no Santa Claus. The reply, originally pub-
lished as an editorial in the Sun, so completely expresses the spirit of Christmas,
that it has become one of our most beloved Christmas classics. The editor was

Francis P. Church.

“Dear Editor—I am 8 years old.
“Some of my little friends say there is no Santa Claus.
“Papa says ‘If you see it in The Sun it’s so.’

“Please tell me the truth, is there a Santa Claus?
“Virginia O’Hanlon”

6‘ IRGINIA, your little friends are wrong. They have been affected by the skep-

Vticism of a skeptical age. They do not believe except they see. They think
that nothing can be which is not comprehensible by their little minds. All minds,
VIRGINIA, whether they be men’s or childreh’s, are little. In this great universe of
ours man is a mere insect, an ant, in his intellect, as compared with the boundless
world about him, as measured by the intelligence capable of grasping the whole of
truth and knowledge.

“Yes, VIRGINIA, there is a Santa Claus. He exists as certainly as love and
generosity and devotion exist, and you know that they abound and give to your
life its highest beauty and joy. Alas! how dreary would be the world if there were
no Santa Claus! It would be as dreary as if there were no Virginias. There would
be no childlike faith then, no poetry, no romance to make tolerable this existence.
We should have no enjoyment, except in sense and sight. The eternal light with
which childhood fills the world would be extinguished.

“Not believe in Santa Claus! You might as well not believe in fairies! You
might get your papa to hire men to watch in all the chimneys on Christmas eve to
catch Santa Claus, but even if they did not see Santa Claus coming, what would that
prove? Nobody sees Santa Claus, but that is no sign that there is no Santa Claus.
The most real things in the world are those that neither children nor men can see.
Did you ever see fairies dancing on the lawn? Of course not, but that’s no proof
that they are not there. Nobody can conceive or imagine all the wonders there are
unseen and unseeable in the world.

“You tear apart the baby’s rattle and see what makes the noise inside, but there
is a veil covering the unseen world which not the strongest man, nor even the
united strength of all the strongest men that ever lived, could tear apart. Only faith,
fancy, poetry, love, romance, can push aside that curtain and view and picture the
supernal beauty and glory beyond. Is it all real? Ah, VIRGINIA, in all this world
there is nothing else real and abiding.

“N 0 Santa Claus! Thank God! he lives, and he lives' forever. A thousand years
from now, VIRGINIA, nay, ten times ten thousand years from now, he will continue

to make glad the heart of childhood.”

387

Suggestions for

Christmas

TALES FOR READING ALOUD*

EADING ALOUD WITH the whole family should
be a part of every Christmas—a tradition in

every home. No Christmas party is complete with--

out a story. Some of the familiar and beloved tales

are listed below.
Nativity
The Gospel according to St. Luke

The Gospel according to Matthew
The Life of Our Lord, Charles Dickens

Legends

The Legend of the Christmas Rose, Selma Lagerlof

The Last Dream of the Old Oak Tree, Hans Chris-
tian Andersen

The Legend of the Christmas Tree, Clement C. Moore

The Fir Tree, Hans Christian Andersen

The Holy Night, Selma Lagerlof

The Noel Candle, Clement C. Moore

Santa Claus

' Is There a Santa Claus? Francis P. Church
Behind the White Brick, Frances Hodgson Burnett
How Santa Claus Came to Simpson’s Bar, Francis
Bret Harte

Sentiment

A Christmas Carol, Charles Dickens

The Birds’ Christmas Carol, Kate Douglas Wiggin
Little Women’s Christmas, Louisa May Alcott
The Little Match Girl, Hans Christian Andersen
On Christmas Eve, Helene Stokl

The White Shawl, Esther Chapman Robb

Holy Morning, Elizabeth Madox Roberts

Adventure
Rock Crystal, Adalbert Stifter
The Christmas Wreck, Frank R. Stockton
The Louis d’Or, Francois Coppee
Solange, the Wolf-Girl, Marcel Prevost
A Tragedy, Antonio Mare

Humor

The Story of the Goblins Who Stole a Sexton, Charles

Dickens
Dulce Domum, Kenneth Grahame

 

*Although these stories are in the library of many, this‘complete
collection can be obtained in one volume—-—Christmas Tales for
geaginé 951mm, edited by Robert Lohan. Stephen Daye Press, New

or . . .

388

A Good Old—Fashioned Christmas, R. H. Mottram

Mrs. Brownlow’s Christmas Party, Willis Boyd Allen

The Three Low Masses, Alphonse Daudet

The Thieves Who Couldn’t Help Sneezing, Thomas
Hardy

How I Spent My Million, Edgar J. Park

The Mouse That Didn’t Believe in Santa Claus,
Eugene Field

A Miserable, Merry Christmas, Lincoln Steffens

Duke’s Christmas, Ruth McEnery Stuart

The Gift of the Magi, 0. Henry

Crisp New Bills for Mr. Teagle, Frank Sullivan

I Take Supper With My Wife, Gustave Droz

When I Fetched the Fixin’s fer Christmas Dinner,
Peter Rosegger

Pioneers in Maine, John Gould

Dancing Dan’s Christmas, Damon Runyon

Twelve Great Poems

Christmas Voices, William Shakespeare
Christmas—1863, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Kings in Conceit, Anonymous

Christmas and New Year Bells, Alfred Tennyson
The Mahogany Tree, William Makepeace Thackeray-
Christmas Everywhere, Phillips Brooks

Heaven Cannot Hold Him, Christina Rossetti

The Night Before Christmas, Clement C. Moore
To the Fir Tree, Anonymous

Jest ’fore Christmas, Eugene Field
Good Relief, Robert Frost

A New Song, Ernest Rhys
MUSIC

Fill your community building with Christmas;
music. In addition to carol singing as a part of'
your program, play recorded Christmas music of
many lands. You will find organ records espe-
cially good if you plan to use an amplifier. Beaum
tiful recordings of carols are available in Christ—
mas albums, or singly. Among some of the albums.
particularly good are: Christmas Carols of Many
Lands, Vienna Boys Choir (Victor Red Seal) ;,
Christmas Carols, Alexander D. Richardson, or-
ganist (Victor); Carols of the English Yuletide,.
Victor Chapel Choir, Emile Cote, organ and
piano; Carols for Christmas Eve, Victor Choir,_
Emile Cote, organ.

RECREATION:

“Never underestimate the power of a woman . . .

’9

HELP WANTED:

 

Women Partners for Recreation Leadership

AM NOT AN expert in your

field at all. I am an ob-
server, a participator. I am a
beneficiary of what you are do—
ing, and that is why I have
come to this meeting this eve-
ning—because during these last
two years I have been observ-

As Public Affairs Editor of the
Ladies’ Home Journal, Miss Hickey
has received letters from hundreds
of women who are showing great

interest in what is being done in
communities to solve present day
problems. Here is a condensation of
her address to recreation workers
at the 1948 Recreation Congress.

Margaret Hickey

find their young people run-
ning their own teams, sharing
in the planning of their teen-
age club. You will find them
helping the little ones act out
an annual Jack and Jill, and if
you catch a youngster at the
police station—well, he is like-

ing your work in many places.

In the Public Affairs De-
partment at the Ladies’ Home
I oumalr we have been trying to bring community
success stories to our readers. We have been
especially interested in helping people to conserve
and to use intelligently their resources—natural,
human and institutional. '

We have been trying to find a new and a vigor—
ous strategy of cooperation, because we have felt
that, in this postwar period, something like that
must be found. It is a strange thing that in times
of war and times of depression we actually make
the greatest progress in our community life, and
then something happens when, as we say, we go
“back to peacetime.” Indeed we do go back, and
many gains are lost.

We have been looking into those communities
where good will and high responsibility abound.
There has been great interest on the part of our
readers in What communities are doing to solve
their problems; particularly have they been inter-
ested in the stories of recreation that we have
'brought to them.

Let me tell you about one of these communities.
Smithfield is one of the good, quiet places. The
people there have a sense of belonging to their
community. Their fellowship in play has helped
them to get that sense of belonging. They think
of their town now with a special pride. You will

DECEMBER 1948

 

1y to be there only to talk about
his part in the accident pre—
vention program.

All over that community, people, little people

i and big people, young people and older people, are

working and playing together. How did that all
start?

Well, back in a very hot summer seven years
ago, there was Mrs. Christopher, with her live-
year-old Billy, going from door to door. She was
collecting toys and games, and asking people to
come over and help with the summer playground.
She was telling the parents of Smithfield that there
was a real troublemaker in their midst—the lack
of something to do.

“Vv’hy,” she said, “one day last week I went
down to the river swimming hole with some of
the neighborhood brood and there was a no tres-
passing sign up, and then I went over to another
spot and there was another sign. Finally we did
find a place, but then I began to worry—is that
water polluted or not?” And she concluded, “So
I took the youngsters back.”

Let’s look at Smithiield now. Mrs. Christopher
is only one of the seventy men and women who
pioneered in what was to become the Smithfield
Recreation Association. People barely recall what
the women did; they don’t remember the hot sum—
mer afternoons when women went out and talked
on front porches about h0w important it was for

389

a small town to realize that the fences were up
everywhere. Today the Smithfield Recreation As—
sociation is a going concern.

Of 'course, they haven’t done all the things they
have wanted to do or that they should do; you
can pick holes in what they have done; and when
they show you their recreation equipment, their
playground equipment, it doesn’t look very im—
pressive. But just remember that they didn’t have
any equipment seven years ago, and that they
have opened up the community purse strings—
the most diflicult thing to do. They have succeeded
where many a wealthier and more highly geared
community has failed, and now there are a dozen
or so nearby towns following their pattern of a
planned recreation program.

This is a simple little story, and yet it is the
story, over and over again, in this country, of how
we really get things going.

Whether we admit it or not, we all reflect the
uneasiness caused by the international situation.
On the hour, every hour, new responsibilities are
heaped upon us.

Reckoned by our standards of living, we are,
beyond doubt, the most fortunate people in the
world. Our machines have freed us from drudg-
ery. They have given us more leisure time, but
along with all of that, we have accepted a very
strange theory, and that theory is that we are not
dependent upon one another. Each individual and
each family wants to be independent.

We need a new citizenship service. During the
war we did have a line glow of achievement which
held us closely together. We need a new inspira-
tion for citizenship that will help us to heat off
this terrible feeling of individual helplessness that
is bearing down upon us. The temptation to
escape from our immediate responsibilities, to seek
our own personal oblivion, is the thing which I
think is most important for us to fight because,
no matter how these fears continue to assail us,
we are not going to be able to do anything about
the world situation until we confront this epidemic
of fear.

Frankly, that is why I am here. It is because
I believe that this Recreation Congress, and the
leaders who are here, can actually do something to
help maintain a united, free, happy America in a
world that is poverty stricken and fear-ridden in
spirit. I believe that we can have a community-
wide constructive program of recreation in this
country for all ages, all cultural and racial groups.

You will forgive me, I hope, if I speak in an
imperative mood. We would certainly not attempt
to go into a war without planning a recreation pro-

390

gram for the people who must fight the battles of
that war. Here we are, perhaps in the bitterest
kind of warfare, the cold war, which must be
fought with intellectual weapons, and we are let—
ting down on the kind of recreation program
which these citizen warriors need.

I am going to risk what all amateurs risk when
they talk to professionals. I am going to make a
few suggestions. I do not claim, remember, to be
anything more than an observer of the community

~in which you work, a representative, in fact, of the

women in that community. I am an observer of
the worried, tense, anxious women whose letters
cross my desk by the hundreds; women who feel
that something must be done, but who don’t know
what that something is, nor how to go about it.

I believe that these women are a great bulwark
of American community strength, and I am going
to suggest that you use their hands where more
hands are needed, their influence where their influ—
ence is going to count. I am going to ask you to
post, figuratively, a “help wanted” sign—“women
partners for recreation leadership.”

In offering that partnership, I want to warn
you—don’t underestimate their power! No com~
munity is stronger than the leadership of its wom-
en. No nation, no project ever becomes firmly
established without their support. This partner—
ship idea is a business proposition and it shouldn’t
be entered into lightly.

First of all, I want you to get acquainted with
the women in your community. Women are no
longer a minority group statistically. True, you
are still treating them as a minority group. There
are, however, more women in this country than
men and, very important for all of us who are try-
ing to get support for community programs to
remember, they control more than half of the
wealth of the country, and they pay more than
half of the taxes.

The entire women’s movement, the committees
for group action, the women’s clubs, all spring
from the demand that women have made to have
a hand in educational improvements, economic op-
portunities, and political participation. Women
have worked for schools, churches, gardens, hos-
pitals, homes, parks, and now they want a larger

 

RECREATION

share in the community housekeeping.

That is a logical extension of woman’s concern
for home and family life. But along with that
great movement, that great desire to expand the
home into the community, something else has
been happening, too, and this is the strange thing.
It is a sort of contradiction because, actually, men
and women, who in the pioneer homes shared all
of these responsibilities, now have ceased to share
responsibilities in the home or in the community.
Each does his job separately, the man outside the
home and the woman in it.

In too many cases there isn’t a common meet—
ing ground, even in families with children. Father
comes home in the evening. He grabs his easy
chair and opens the newspaper. He says, “After
all, I work hard all day and why should I get
mixed up in this recreation business and go to
meetings and pay more taxes? I am just not going
to bother about that.”

More and more women in this country, how-
ever, are waking up to the fact that it is no longer
safe to do that. It is no longer safe to be a good
mother but an indifferent citizen. It is no longer
safe to “let George do it,” no matter how broad
his shoulders or how good he is at supplying the
mansion and the mink and the bacon. It is no
longer safe to be a good teacher, a good secretary,
a good recreation worker, a good doctor—and an
indifferent citizen.

There is no question that our communities have
suffered because men and women have had all too
little part in their workings. Boss-ridden, over-
taxed towns, without adequate health, educational
and recreation facilities, are the result.

The pattern of community life is changing all
over the world. More and more women are work—
ing outside the home. Increased numbers of Amer—
ican women are going into outside jobs because
they need the money. In war-torn countries they
are still working under government order in the
mills, in the factories, in the offices and in the
shops. Added to home responsibilities, the aver-
age woman is taking on heavier duties all the time.

In this country, seventeen million women are
working outside their own homes. This means
that thirty-one percent of all the women over six-
teen years of age are in the active labor force, and
here is an amazing sociological fact—over forty—
six percent of these women are married, sixteen
percent are Widowed, and only thirty-eight per-
cent are single. For the first time in our history,
there are more married women working than sin-
gle women.

Another sociological fact—over half of these

DECEMBER 1948

women who are working are over thirty-five. That
is, we have more married women and more older
women working than ever before, and we have to
make provision for recreation to meet the demands
of this new kind of life which American women
are undertaking.

And there is another factor that I want you to
think about. With the help of modern medicine,
nutrition, psychology, labor-saving devices, and I
think a little bit of recreation, the woman today,
who is forty, has an added twenty-four and a half
years of life expectancy. Her life span has been
increased.

 

Consider then that there are fifteen million
women in this country over forty, who have an—
other twenty-five to thirty-five years ahead of
them. They are no longer tied down with family
duties. In general, they have maturity, experience
and education to fit them for community service.
Why aren’t we using them?

Why, by 1970, twenty-one percent of the peo-
ple, of the whole population, will be over fifty-five
years of age. Are we getting ready to take care of
the vastly increased numbers of people in our pop—
ulation who are going to be in the elder age
brackets? I think that our problem children of
tomorrow are not going to be the teen-agers, but
the elder-agers.

It seems to me now that these people, particu-
larly this mature group, might be a very impor-
tant group in bridging what John Gunther calls
the “gap—(by the way, I should like to recom—
mend his book, “Inside U.S.A.” to recreation
leaders because he gave great attention to the rec-
reation facilities in the communities that he vis-
ited)——between the sound and the generous social
ideals that we have and inadequate performance,
between basic good will in citizens and their lack
of concrete know—how, between what we believe
in and what we actually do.”

Certainly we cannot wait for the leadership to
come from twenty-one million citizens, now ages
one to six. These are the war babies who are
going to crowd our schools, our playgrounds, our
beaches and our parks. Just keep in mind the
“baby bulge” that is going to come into our com-

391

munity life .when they are a little older.

And we are not doing anything about it! Cer—
tainly we are not going to be able to get the
leadership from the young parents who are busy
with their children. Fathers must catch up with
education and job experience, interrupted by war.
We must look to the other groups to help us out.

There are three groups to whom I want to call
your attention specifically. First, we have the
housewife and the mother. Now, actually, she has
little time to spare, but she will find time if the
program involves her own children. I will cite an
example in the Detroit program—the Tot Lots.
The mothers’ clubs, in some of the districts with
the greatest need for recreation, organized moth-
ers’ groups to help with the playgrounds. They
did not replace paid workers; they hadn’t wanted
to do that. These mothers and parents are being
used very successfully in family camp programs.
Family camps are organized so that family groups
themselves can have vacations together.

There is another group which can be brought
into the community picture. There is grandmother
—and, remember, we have to study grandmother
because we are all going to be mature workers,
someday, ourselves. The elderly citizen is one of
the great challenges of our period. Superior are
programs such as that of the Philadelphia Recre-
ation Association. With the help of forty organ—
izations, the Association is able to reach 2,000
elderly citizens. Forty organizations help, two

thousand people are reached! What is the budget?
It’s $5,000 a year for salary and running expenses.
Isn’t that a magnificent thing? That shows what
we can get in this sort of community partnership.

And of the greatest importance will be the
women. leaders from groups, from business, from
industry and from professions, who will gladly
serve as interpreters of this program to the com-
munity. Starting in their own particular groups,
you can often persuade them into action on your
behalf. As you well know, a woman’s club with a
cause is one of the most powerful groups in any
community. And when several such groups band
together, pooling their interests to back the same
cause—well, it’s the exceptional board of alder-
men, mayor, governor or chamber of commerce
who remains inattentive to what they have to say.
“Never underestimate the power of a woman.”

Indeed, the volunteer’s work often carries more
weight in the community than the professional’s
since, in this skeptical world, there are those who
still believe that the professional’s opinion may be
biased on the side of wanting to hold on to his job.
It is not going to be easy. Working with commu-
nity volunteers will be work for you, too. You will
need patience and a special spiritual aptitude, a
friendliness that will make the volunteer feel
wanted and welcome. It is indeed this precious
combination of the humane and professional, of
the social and spiritual, which needs to be added
to recreation work today.

 

0n Recruiting Volunteers

OFTEN A CASUAL conversation with a visitor can
create such a favorable impression for your
community center, playground or program that,
almost before you know it, another volunteer has
joined. The personal approach, if sincere and en-
thusiastic, is invaluable and can be utilized at all
times.

The following are suggestions for more formal
methods of recruiting through the use of:

I. Local newspapers with editorials, feature
stories, or generals news items concerning a need
for volunteers. Be sure that any recruiting article
states clearly the jobs available and the qualifica—
tions necessary for each. Emphasize some of the
important and interesting things volunteers are

392

doing in recreation work to give prospective vol-
unteers the feeling that they might miss something
if they do not respond.

2. Radio by dramatization, interviews with vol-

unteers on the job, spot announcements, or special
SOS calls for volunteers.

3. Slides or screen announcements at movies.

4. Distribution of printed materials, flyers and
brochures.

5. Posters used in stations, stores, buses,
churches, housing developments, schools.

6. Talks before community groups.

7. Word—of—mouth interpretation in daily con-
tacts, through and from your own participants.

RECREATION

Dorothy C. Enderis
Retires

HOWARD BRAUCHER

N 1912 AN attractive young woman school-
1 teacher started helping with the city recreation
centers of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

She did not say to herself, “Go to it, now—I
will build myself up until I am as highly regarded
and. as influential as the mayor of the city or the
governor of the state.”

She is not that kind of person. She devoted her-
self to her job. Yet many came to say that, as far
as the lives of people were considered, she could
not have been more influential in any other posi-
tion. She is herself a rare comrade; she really
likes people. She is always a smiling, happy per—
son who appears to carry heavy responsibility
easily.

She has thought of music, art, literature, the
preservation of the best in the cultures of the na-
tional groups, as helping “to make a person com-
panionable to himself. It is when a person is not
companionable to himself that he gets into trouble.”

Soon, because of all she was doing, Dorothy
Enderis was in demand for important addresses
before large national gatherings, was sought after
for many important tasks, but she stuck fairly close
to her own job and her own city. She did find
time to be active in church and Sunday school.
However, delegations from far and near came to
her—if she could not go to them—to ask her ques—
tions, to see for themselves just what was taking
place. Word went out from the office of the Na—
tional Recreation Association to Africa, to Asia,
to South America, as well as to various parts of
Europe, regarding her program. An entire issue
of RECREATION magazine was devoted to the Mil—
waukee recreation centers. She became known
throughout the world because she had demon-
strated what a city can do to help its citizens lead
happy lives; what a wise, _able, energetic recrea—
tion executive can'accomplish.

In Milwaukee, in the year 1912, when Dorothy
Enderis was still a teacher, many of the people
thought recreation was a mere luxury. \Vhen
schools closed at three-thirty children were shooed
from the school grounds, and those who sneaked
back to play were reported to the principal for
loitering.

In 1920, when Miss Enderis became head of the

DECEMBER 1948

 

recreation department, Milwaukee had six social
centers and fourteen playgrounds. Now Milwau-
kee is known everywhere for its philosophy of the
lighted schoolhouse, keeping the school buildings
open after school hours for the leisure moments
that make a life. The city now has thirty-five

O

social centers and sixty-two playgrounds.

The Milwaukee Journal, in writing of Dorothy
Enderis, told of how, in the depression of the
thirties, when there were so many unemployed and
idle, a special center was opened which proved a
haven for unemployed men. There were lectures,
music, chess and other games. A cobbling corner
and a tailoring corner were installed where the
men could have their shoes and clothes repaired.

The Milwaukee Journal continued:

“No one will ever know of the thousands of
persons to whom Miss Enderis has been a friend
outside of her activities. She has been at the side
of a father or mother who lost a loved one; she
has been at christenings and weddings. Many a
time, outside her office in the school administra-
tion building, she has sat down with someone who
had been waiting for her, someone distressed who
was restored to peace just by the gentle press
of her hand.”

We may well pause to think of the school super-
intendents, school boards and the citizens at large
who have been so generous and constant in their
support of this woman who has been so loyal to
them. Milwaukee citizens have a place in their

393

Dear Dorothy Enderis:

In the story yesterday of your retirement, we gave
your age as eighty-two. We are very sorry. You are
only sixty-eight. Gracious as always, you said it didn’t

matter. Whatever the number of years, we are sur-
prised, for Dorothy Enderis has no age. Few people
accomplished as much as you have in one lifetime;
still fewer, at any age, are so vitally young.
—Milwaukee Sentinel.

support of abundant living comparable to that of
Athenian citizens in the Age of Pericles and the
group in England in the Elizabethan-Shakespear-
ean era. ,

The National Recreation School, a graduate
professional school in New York City, carried on
under the auSpices of the National Recreation As-
sociation, for a period of years always called upon
Mi: 5 Enderis to help in the training of recreation
e:-ecutives each year, and she was one of the most
appreciated teachers because she had so much ex-
perience to share.

She also helped with the training of executives
by receiving, in certain years, as many as four
apprentice fellows sent to her by the National
Recreation Association to learn by doing under
her leadership. Certain of these apprentices now
hold very important positions in the recreation
movement.

Dorothy Enderis is one of the first, if not the
first, to receive an honorary degree of Doctor of
Recreation. She was awarded this degree in I944
by Carroll College, Waukesha, Wisconsin. At
another time Miss Enderis received the distin-
guished service medal of the Cosmopolitan Club
of Milwaukee, awarded to the individual perform-
ing service most beneficial to the community, and
also the honorary degree of 'Master of Arts con-
ferred by Lawrence College, Appleton, Wisconsin.

On a nationwide radio hook-up she was cited
for her contribution to the morale of America.
When Frank L. Taylor, publisher of the Milwau-
kee Sentinel, was asked to name the most impor-
tant influence in keeping the city’s juvenile delin—
quency rate one of the lowest in the United States,
without hesitation he named Dorothy Enderis and
her exceptional service in providing opportunity
for wholesome recreation for young people. The
newspapers have generally recognized the impor-
tant part Miss Enderis’ department has played in
keeping at a minimum Milwaukee’s juvenile delin-
quency.

It was on September 30, 1948, rthat Dorothy

Enderis retired, after serving thirty-six years in '

recreation work in Milwaukee, Wisconsin—eight
years as assistant to the recreation executive,

394 ,

 

Harold O. Berg, and twenty-eight years in charge
of the entire program.

Many younger recreation workers want to do
what Dorothy Enderis has done, want to work in
the same spirit that has characterized her work.

It has seemed to me that it is worthwhile, while
Dorothy Enderis is still with us, to pause thus long
to think of what her life and work have meant and
how she has made her position of recreation execu-
tive as outstanding, perhaps, as any position could
be made. '

What stands out most as one thinks of Dorothy
Enderis and her thirty-six years in recreation is

what she herself says: “I have had an awfully
good time at my job.”

Just How Did Milwaukee Start
Its Reereation System?

IT MAY NOT be out of place here to try to give an
answer to this question which has frequently
been asked. In 1911 the Child Welfare Commis-
sion of Milwaukee and the Board of School Direc-
tors united in writing to the National Recreation
Association to ask that the Association make a
study of Milwaukee and work out a plan for tax
supported recreation. At that time there were no
funds available to pay for this service. Later it
became the general practice for communities, desir-
ing this kind of very special help, to raise money
in advance to meet the cost; but at that time, since
no funds were available, the Association met the
cost of several thousand dollars from its general
funds and then asked Milwaukee citizens in suc-
ceeding years to contribute to make it possible to
give the same kind of help to other cities.

Rowland Haynes, who has just retired as presi-
dent of the University of Omaha and has had a
long and distinguished career in education and in
other community work, was then a field secretary
of the National Recreation Association. He was
called upon to make the study and to give the other
help requested. Local leaders expressed great ap-
preciation of what was done by Rowland Haynes
during the months he worked in Milwaukee, helping
to lay the foundations for a recreation system.

Among the local leaders particularly interested
were H. H. Jacobs, of University Settlement; Mrs.
Charles W. Norris; W ilbur Phillips, Secretary of
the Child Welfare Commission; Mayor Seidel ;
Rev. Frederick Edwards; and Smith Y. Hughes,
Superintendent, Boys’ Busy Life Club.

RECREATION

 

Memorial Field and Stadium

The Story of

American Cities in Recreation

Part III

MllUN’l‘ VERNIJN, NEW YIJRK

R. Walter Cammack

UNIQUE AMONG COMMUNITIES across the na—
tion, Mount Vernon, New York, is a little
big city. 'With 18,000 people crowded into each
one of our four and one-fifth square miles of area
(total population, 76,000) and completely hemmed
in by two cities and two villages, making expan-
sion impossible, Mount Vernon has grown to be
one of the most densely populated cities in the
United States.

A century ago this area was fallow land; until,
in 1850, a group of men from New York City, in
search of more room to raise their families, enjoy
better health and higher standards of living, went
north to the outskirts of the city, built their homes
and found happiness in hearing their children
shout across the open spaces.

But so many others had the same idea that the
wide open spaces gradually vanished.

“God made the country for His children to en-
joy. Man made the city and forgot the children.”

In Mount Vernon, however, the women remem-
bered—and did something about it.

DECEMBER 1948

Recreation Commission

In 1909, ten women, who were members of both
the VVestchester W oman’s Club and the League of
Women Voters, gave one hundred dollars to li-
nance the first supervised summer playground.
This demonstration aroused the interest and sup—
port of the Board of Education and later resulted
in the appointment, by the Board of Aldermen, of
a Recreation Committee of fifty, who carried on

until the first World War.

After a campaign in which social, political and
religious organizations rallied to the support of
the movement, the voters of the city decided, by
referendum on November 24, 1924, that a mini-
mum of $20,000 should be spent annually by the
city for public recreation.

Guided by the National Recreation Association
and the Westchester County Recreation Commis-
sion, an amendment was added to the city charter
making the Recreation Commission a component
part of the city government.

395

“Such Commission shall consist of five members
to be appointed by the Mayor. . . . Such Commis-
sion shall have, to the exclusion of all other com-
mittees and commissions on playgrounds and pub—
lic recreation in the City of Mount Vernon, the
organization and control of all recreational activ-,
ities.”

The Commission, appointed to serve beginning
January 1, 1925, has the distinction of being the
first one in the State of New York to take advan-
tage of the state referendum law on recreation
which had then been passed.

Achievement by Cooperation

Since 1945, although our population has in-
creased fifty percent, our recreation budget has
increased, in the same time, over three hundred
percent (from $20,000 to $86,000). Still better,
participation in our city—wide recreation program
has multiplied more than ten times.

This has resulted largely because of the un-
usually cooperative working relationship existing
between our Recreation Commission, the city ad-
ministration, the Board of Education, civic clubs,
private social agencies and fraternal organizations.

These fine public relations, which have enabled
us to attain these achievements, did not just hap-
pen. They were earned, built up by careful atten—
tion to small details as well as to major projects.
We treat every citizen request by telephone, by
letter, or by personal visit; every suggestion or
criticism is a real opportunity to maintain good
public relations. Our office staff, supervisors,
maintenance workers, all use such occasions to
cement further the fine cooperative spirit between
citizens and the department. This has paid hand—

some dividends in growth, support and service.

In January 1946, Mayor William Hart Hussey,
in his annual message to the Common Council,
devoted three-fourths of the linage to curtailment
of city expenditures, and the balance of the mes-
sage to the need for expansion of playgrounds and
recreation facilities.

His proposal to set aside new areas for play-
grounds, and his strong backing of the $100,000
program for the construction of new, and improve-
ment of existing, playgrounds, made Mount Ver-
non the first city in this part of the country to
complete a postwar recreation project. Although
this required the approval of the Common Council
on nine different contracts, not a single request of
the Recreation Commission was rejected.

Realizing that the youth of our community are
our most precious possessions, city officials “have
come to recognize the very practical fact that more
and better attention to the recreation department,
to more recreation for more children, results in
commendation and support for the administration
from the children’s parents.

Stan

The year-round administrative and supervisory
staff consists of the superintendent, assistant su-
perintendent, secretary, two supervisors of ath-
letics and a handcrafts instructor. The efficiency
and skill with which the department is functioning
is indicated by the fact that it is now conducting a
program with an annual attendance ten times as
large as that in 1929, when the same number of
staff members were employed. Playground direc-
tors and evening center leaders are all employed
on a part-time basis, which necessitates constant

ORGANIZATION CHART
MOUNT VERNON.N.Y. RECREATION COMMISSION

RECREATION COMMISSION

RECREATION
SUPERINTENDENT

Assistant Office Supervisor Supervisor Handicraft Maintenance
Superintendent Secretary of Athletics of Athletics“ Director Staff

Athletic Fields
Playgrounds
Buildings

Equipment

Women. Girls
Playgrounds

Indoor Centers

Tee ntown

St e n ography
Bookkeeping

Re c 0 rd 5
General Office

Playgrounds

396

Men's Athletics

Indoor Centers
Industrial Ath I.

 

Boy's ,-AthIet ics

Playgrounds
Indoor Centers
Tou rnaments

Handipraft
6

Arts sCraft Shop

Playgrounds
Senior Canteen

RECREATION

   

  

Wi-

' ' -. e-
. l ' ‘
- u' N
l
‘2. . ' x
I .
>-. K '
‘- m. - . _. ‘_-. \
-~. \ .._.-*  ’ 13.199“ ‘5. r. a.“ " . .vx- he“ : -‘-‘ “‘ '1.

Skating on private property “loaned” to Commission.
Election booth loaned by City Clerk for shelter.

recruiting and training, but effects a material sav-
ing in salaries.

Maintenance staff members—~consisting of six
full-time and four part-time workers—take care
of the athletic fields, tennis courts, ball diamonds,
stadium, playgrounds, buildings-and facilities for
winter sports. Their interest and ability in keep-
ing these facilities in first class condition have been
invaluable.

 

Budget
A summary of the budget for 1948 is as follows :
Yearly salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$20,570.

Part-time salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 29,501.

Wages—maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20,100.

Office expense and mileage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,400.

Repairs and renewals of equipment . . . . . . . . . .. 6,400.

Recreation features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 560.

Heat and light—Memorial Field . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 550.

Materials and supplies—Memorial Field . . . . .. 900.

Injury expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.

Coasting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 750.

Teen Town . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5,938.

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$86,769.

Since 1946, Mount Vernon has been receiving
reimbursement toward one-half the cost of new or
expanded recreation activities or facilities from the
New York State Youth Commission, to the extent
of $5,000 a year.

Areas and Facilities

With a play area now within one-quarter mile
of the home of over ninety percent of the children
of the city, Mount Vernon is recreationally unique
and is close to the goal and dream of every recrea-
tion department. School buildings used for indoor
recreation programs are almost equally accessible.

“I like to have my children go to the playground
now,” said a mother. “Before you had the new
surface, the children came home so dirty from the

DECEMBER 1948

 

Art group in action. Popular arts and crafts shop
is housed in building owned by Board of Education.

dust and lcinders that I had to stop them from
going.”

This must have expressed the attitude of many
mothers because, at one playground, after it was
resurfaced and fully equipped, attendance made
the amazing jump from 6,000 the previous year to
105,000 the year after the improvements were
completed.

Attendance at other improved grounds increased
from five hundred to eleven hundred percent,
which emphasized to the Commission that, in
order to make leadership and service most effec-
tive and efficient, they must be supported by ade-
quate facilities. ,

Of the twenty-one playgrounds, Operated by the
Recreation Commission, eleven are city-owned and
ten are school playgrounds. The city grounds
have recently had shelters erected and have been
surfaced with black-top. All are fenced and com-
pletely equipped with the usual play apparatus.

Our three athletic fields, with an average of a
little over eleven acres in each field, cover more
area than the total of twenty-eight acres in the
city parks. The facilities on the fields consist of
eleven diamonds for baseball and softball, four-
teen tennis courts, eight handball courts, three
football fields, an archery range, two field houses;
also a $200,000 stadium seating 5,000, built in
1931 at Memorial Field.

Housed in a separate building, owned by the
Board of Education, is the arts and crafts shop,
equipped with work tables, tools for wood work,
metal work, etching, leathercraft, looms for weav-
ing, easels for drawing and painting, a lathe, jig
saws and so on.

Teen Town is located in a downtown city-owned
building, turned over to the Recreation Commis-
sion by the Common Council. Following renova-
tion by the teen-agers, the high school cartoonists

397

splashed likenesses of unusually acrobatic jitter-
bugs on the walls. They unquestionably give life
and color to the place.

Use of School Buildings

The Board of Education holds the doors of. the
school buildings wide open for our use. We have
heard recreation workers say that the superintend-
ents of schools in their cities are “against the use
of schools for recreation.” We believe that, in
most cases, this is inadvertently a misquotation.
What the superintendent most likely was against,
and justifiably so, was not the use of the schools
but the misuse of school property and facilities.
He was against broken windows, broken lights,
broken chairs, broken promises. He was probably
very much against the absence of responsible rec—
reation supervision.

It is the policy of our department, when we take
over the use of any school facility, also to take
over the complete responsibility that goes with
such use. We look after school property as if it
were our own; we repair damages promptly, insist
upon competent and adequate supervision and, in
return, receive the full cooperation of the school
authorities.

During the winter season we conduct an aver-
age of fifty—two sessions a week in school build-
ings. The Board of Education makes no charge
to the Recreation Commission for heat, light or
janitor service.

Program

WINTER— Ninety basketball teams in seven
leagues, badminton, dances, arts and crafts, choral
society, drama groups, boys’ and girls’ afternoon
and evening gym groups, bowling, ice skating,
coasting and so forth. Co-recreation groups, con-
ducted Friday evenings in the junior high schools,
have been particularly appealing to the younger
teen-agers.

SPRING—One hundred and thirty-five baseball
and softball teams in twelve junior and senior
leagues, twelve after—school playgrounds, tennis,
archery, handball, and so forth. Andy Karl and
Ralph Branca, major league baseball pitchers, are
former members of our junior and senior baseball
leagues.

SUMMER— Twenty-one summer playgrounds,
open nine am. to five p.m., six pm. to eight-thirty
p.m., with doll shows, movies, play days, showers,
athletics, picnics and all the other usual playground
activities; summer band and orchestra school,
swimming lessons, swimming championships, ten-
nis tournaments, baseball and softball leagues.

398

Our Junior All-Star team won the New York
State Junior Baseball Championship this year.

F ALL—’—Twelve after-school playgrounds, final
playoffs of baseball and softball leagues, high
school and semi-pro football, football kicking con—
test. Frank Carideo, all-American and outstand—
ing football player at Notre Dame, was a product
of our playgrounds and football fields.

YEAR-ROUND—Arts and Crafts—Special classes
in painting, sewing, first aid, motion picture pho—
tography, and such are supplemented by individ-
ual instruction in various arts and crafts projects.
Art exhibitions are held and Girl Scout leaders
receive crafts instruction.

Senior Canteen—Limited to those over sixty-
five years of age, this group of fifty-two “seniors”
meets weekly at the arts and crafts shop to “rem-
inisce,” play cards and have tea.

Teen Town—Now nearly four years old, this
club, with three hundred teen-age members, runs
merrily along to the tunes of the juke box, the
click of ping pong and billiard balls, and with the
consumption of astounding quantities of soft
drinks and ice cream from the snack bar.

Industrial and Commercial Athletic Association
—-—Organized in 1930, the teams are enthusiastic
about their bowling, softball and basketball leagues
and their annual awards banquet.

Community Team Work

In addition to the splendid working relationship
between the Recreation Commission and the Board
of Education, there are numerous other instances
of community team work.

The Commission assisted in the establishment of
the Girls’ Club, which became a member of the
Council of Social Agencies. The Elks’ Club spon-
sors our midget baseball league of thirty-two
teams, our pee wee basketball league and marble
tournament; provides trophies and raises money
for special activities. We schedule the use of school
buildings for the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Boys’
Club, Girls’ Club and other recreation programs.
The Lions Club bought property and donated it
for a city playground; they sponsor our annual
swimming meets and baseball clinics. The Kiwanis
Club sponsors our junior baseball league and
junior tennis tournament. The Rotary Club re-
cently conducted a survey of the recreation inter-
ests of the school children of the city. The Ex—
change Club is backing the model airplane flying
group.

Co-sponsored by the Westchester County Rec-
reation Commission, we have conducted movies,
concerts, training institutes, softball tournaments,

RECREATTON

   

MOUNT VERNON J!
NEWXORK i

showing ploy areas
with quarter mile radius

/

choral societies and a football clinic. The high
school, PTA’s and the Council of Social Agencies
aided in the organization of Teen Town, and its
club rooms are used by various agencies and
groups for meetings and social events. Teen Town
has raised funds from its own members for the

DECEMBER 1948

Community Chest, March of Dimes, Red Cross,
Brotherhood Week and the Hospital Drive. The
Police, D.P.W., and other city departments are
our indispensable allies. The West Side Improve-
ment Association helped establish two new play-
grounds. The Commission provides ball fields for

399

the Y.M.C.A., Church Softball League and the
Firemen’s Softball League. The Mount Vernon
Chapter of the National Council of Jewish Women
organized the Senior Canteen and provides host-
esses and refreshments each week. In coopera-
tion with the Fire Department and the \Nestchesé
ter County Children’s Association, we collect hun-
dreds of toys to be repaired and distributed to in-
digent children at Christmas time.

The W estchester County Park Commission
leases county-owned property to the city for two
of our playgrounds and part of one of our athletic
fields, and allows us the use of their pool for our
swimming lessons and meets. Our local news-
paper, The Daily Argus, is always most generous
in its publicity of our activities. The League of
Women Voters and the Westchester Woman’s
Club—the founders of the Recreation Commission
—maintain an active interest in our program and
progress.

Letters to the Commission

The “Senior Canteen,” Mount Vernon’s recre-
ation center for the older generation only, was
received with such enthusiasm by the older folks
of the city that, at their request, we are planning
to be open two afternoons a week this year. Aside
from the many expressions of appreciation which
the hostesses have personally received from can-
teeners, the oldest membermninety-seven years
young—wrote a poem praising the canteen, and a
number of the folks signed a letter expressing
their thanks. At last, the Older generation have a
place of their own where they may gather in a
friendly atmosphere for the companionship they
crave.

What other everyday, average citizens think of
recreation service in Mount Vernon is illustrated
by the following letters which are typical of many
received by the Recreation Commission:

I

A mother: “For some time now my baby daughter
and I have been enjoying the facilities of the Grove
Street playground, and I want to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to the Commission and its
efficient staff. It is a blessing to have somewhere to
take or send your child, where she will have fun and
yet be safe.” Ruth Mangarello

A mother: “I was thrilled to see baby swings and
a sandbox installed for my three year old son. Along
‘with the tiny tot area came the art craft and weekly
entertainment show that kept my twelve year old
daughter contented. Lo and behold! before my very
eyes a softball area for my fourteen year old son.
‘Three children,’ I said, ‘and all of them enjOying what
once had been a vacant lot.’ I’m putting my feelings
in writing to you people who have helped me and

400

other mothers to have an enjoyable summer with
happy children to put to bed every night, praying for
sunshine in the morning for another day at the play-
ground." Mrs. A. Pezzino

A mother: “This note is to inform you of the excel-
lent services rendered by Miss Rosemarie Tuccillo
and Mr. Alan Bonaparte as recreation leaders at the
Lorraine Avenue playground. The children were very
happy there and we would appreciate the return of
these leaders next year. The playground was made a
special delight because of Miss Tuccillo’s special tal-
ents, plus her untiring efforts and hours spent at the
playground beyond the actual time required. My hus-
band commented that -the playground was run as a
private day camp. In my conversations with the
parents at the playground I found that they whole-
heartedly agree with me.” Mrs. M. D. Moglen.

A child: “I hope that you and the rest of the Recre-
ation Commission staff will continue to carry on your
excellent supervision of the playgrounds, not only next
year, but in the years to come. If the children all over
Mount Vernon have had as much fun at their play-
grounds as we have had in ours, all I can say is—
congratulations—you did a splendid job.”

Louise Barbara Spears

 

AS EARLY As 1915, Francis R. North, field secretary
of the National Recreation Association, made a sur-
vey of the recreation needs of Mount Vernon. As a
result of the survey, a recreation commission was
appointed and the work showed a steady growth
until World War I, when the commission was abol-
ished. For a number of years after that, the work
was carried on under the school board. In 1924, a
favorable referendum vote was secured on the estab-
lishment of a recreation system under the commis-
sion, and the voters also approved a minimum
yearly budget for recreation of $20,000. The Na-
tional Recreation Association field worker actively
assisted the local League of Women Voters in the
campaign—Ed.

 

Drama *

By W illiam W. Pratt

THE CAST: Two charmers in their youth.
THE TIME: Most any day.

THE SCENE OF ACTION : Drugstore booth,
-VVith music canned and gay.

TIIE PLOT: A brief refreshing pause
Of juniors minus poise.

THE PROPS: Two frosted drinks, with straws.
THE CONVERSATION: Boys.

 

*Reprinted by special permission of the Saturday Evening Post.
Copyright 1948 by the Curtis Publishing Company.

RECREATION

Hollywood Night

As It Occurs at the Kenny Institute . . .

cc HERE’S GOING TO be a party!” “What shall

I wear?” “What are we going to do ?” “Do
you think I could look like Myrna Loy?” “\Nhere
will we get the costumes?”

This sounds just like any group of children
anyplace, doesn’t it? It could be, but these are
the reactions of the polio victims, in the Elizabeth
Kenny Institute in Minneapolis, when the Recre-
ation Director says, “Let’s have a Hollywood
party, shall we?” For the children are not merely
handicapped, hospital patients, nor physically de-
iicient humans. They are normal individuals with
the same needs, desires and dreams of those who
walk and run.

 

A little lipstick, a gay gown and an excited heart
were the ingredients little Susan took to the party.

DECEMBER 1948

Fern Allen Schwankl

And so the plans go forward. Costumes are
hunted up and fitted, hair is washed and curled,
stunts are planned and rehearsed, posters are put
up and invitations extended. For a few days the
party fever runs high. This is the first important
phase of the celebration: the planning and antici-
pation.

Finally the long awaited night arrives and the
suppers are put away hurriedly (even the hospital
employees are moving more swiftly in their excite-
ment l). From one ward comes excited last-minute
demands for lipstick and earrings, from another
the noises of a final rehearsal; and from the larg-
est ward, the sound of the moving of beds, hanging
of the stage background. A transformation is tak~
ing place—from sterile hospital plainness to festive
clutter. The lights go up, the piano comes rum—
bling in, the microphone is put in place. Through
all these preparations, bright eyes shine from the
beds, and excited voices call out questions, for to-
night is the night of our party!

With the zero hour (which in a hospital must
come at 6:30 p. m.) a parade of wheelchairs, lit-
ters, and straight chairs bring the patient-guests
into the largest ward. Can these be the same chil-
dren who wear loin cloths while they lie under hot
packs all day? They are just as dressed up as any
children ready for a party. This is how they
should look, for they are normal children, happy
with the joy and fun of being and doing.

The master of ceremonies starts the night’s en~
tertainment—and every child gets into an act. It
is important that each participate, for every child
must feel that he is and will be vital and neces-
sary. To each must come the satisfaction of giving
of himself for the fun of all. This means a little
extra pushing by those with more sturdy arms and
legs, but no one minds at all for it’s everybody’s

401

party! After the patients have performed, they
are entertained by two outside acts. These con-
tribute to the excitement, give new interest, and
add the final touch of professionalism. The party
breaks up with a song by everyone, and then it’s
time for refreshments.

This is a Hollywood party, and glamor is the
keyword. The volunteer helpers wear formals and
dress suits. The simulated champagne (ginger ale
plus imagination) is served from an electrically
lighted punch bowl. While the guests relax hap—
pily with cookies and punch, the staff and helpers
start the clean-up. Children’s wards must be clear
and quiet for early hospital bedtimes.

Yet, even though the lights go out on time, if
you listen carefully you can hear small girl giggles
or whispered comments. “Say, Mary, didn’t you
think that Katie looked beautiful tonight?” “I’d
like to do imitations as well as that guy from the
university did l” “Tomorrow we can play with the
prizes we won!” Then come the dreams of happy
children who have forgotten, for a moment, the
terrible fear of useless hands or frail legs. Tonight
they are only children who have been to a party.

Another important part of such an event is the
remembering. For several days party talk re-
mains in the hospital conversations. The special
surprise, of Hollywood night, was a colored movie
taken during the party and shown later during
one of the movie hours. Reminders such as this
keep memory active a bit longer.

The task of giving a party for an entire floor
of patients, whose ages vary from six to forty—live
(and whose physical conditions vary as widely), is
not an easy one, but it is a wonderful job! It
means drawing on all the ingenuity of the workers
and the patients. It means collecting unflinchineg
from hOSpital and community resources. It means
additional hours to plan and prepare, extra legs to
secure supplies and materials, added efforts to sus-
tain group teamwork from every hospital worker
and member of the volunteer staff. Add to these
a large amount of imagination and a good sense of
humor, and the job of giving a hospital party is
not too hard after all.

It is difficult to devise a motivating theme—
something to give the party both timeliness and
purpose. Our Hollywood idea evolved during a
meeting of volunteer recreation workers. As it
caught on, everyone contributed to the plans for
program and decorations. Dreaming up stunts
which patients can enact often poses-a real prob-
lem. The stunts must be suitable for the maturity
level of the actors, and simultaneously prove good
fun for the on-lookers. But the children are always

402

helpful with the planning and know what they
would like to do. Also, the family feeling within
a hospital has saved many a poor stunt from fall-
ing completely flat.

Hospital parties are impossible unless one has
the cooperation of the hospital staff and a good
dependable volunteer staff. A large portion of the
credit for a successful evening goes to our corps
of approximately twenty able volunteer workers,
who give their own time to help the children have
fun. For the Hollywood party, each worker was
assigned a definite job and responsibility. For ex-
ample: two women helped the younger girls plan
their stunt, write the songs and speeches, rehearse
and fit the costumes, helped the girls dress, pushed
the young actresses on the stage and off again.
Another volunteer conceived the idea of making
corsages for prizes and prepared them as her share
of the work. This type of assistance makes our
entire recreation program possible.

As we have four wards on the second floor of
the Institute, we prepared four separate acts. Each
ward practiced its act in secret, in order that the
program would be a surprise for the other patients.
Members of our girls’ ward (ages nine through
fourteen) held a beauty contest for aSpiring star-
lets. Girls of this age.level love to dress up in
older girls’ clothes, and proved to be sensational
in their formals and earrings. Each girl prepared
a “campaign speech” aimed at impressing the
beauty judges. A sample of the Speeches:

“I’m Miss Minneapolis.
My boy friend’s a Swede,
But for a Hollywood Oscar
I’d trade him, indeed.”

Of course, the beauty contest judges could ar—
rive at no decision when faced with such beguiling

 

Three older boys came as the Marx brothers. Groucho
is helped with his mustache by recreation volunteer.

RECREATION

contestants. Each girl received a corsage as well
as a very special beauty title, such as “Miss
Glamorous of 1948.”

Our older boys (ages fourteen to forty-five) put
on a Marx Brothers act. All that was needed for
supplies came from a magic store. Wigs, false
noses and eyes, a very “corny” joke book, squirt
gun, and other props insured success. Who (age
notwithstanding) can resist the joys of a water
squirt gun?

The older girls (ages fourteen years to thirty-
three) dressed to impersonate movie stars in their
more prominent roles. We planned this act for
audience participation. It was modeled after the
radio program which gives clues from which con-
testants make deductions. Our impersonations
were too good, for we ended up holding most of
the prizes that we had planned to give away for
wrong guesses!

The children from the smaller boys’ ward
planned their own cowboy act. They divided into
two teams, made cowboy hats and paper guitars.
They practiced camplire songs for a contest. Be-
fore the party, we arranged a human applause
meter which was to help indicate the winner, but
since such a device could not operate under the
tremendous ovations received by our contestants,
it broke down and everyone received prizes.

The outside entertainers were impersonators of
famous people. A phonograph and piano provided
the necessary accompaniment and background
music. Although we would have liked an orches-
tra or band for the festivities, our limited space
and funds restricted our ambitions.

Special parties are one of the high points of our
hospital recreation program. We plan to have a
general get-together party at least once a month,

 

At party's end Susan and Mary were among many
who whispered remembrances far into the night.

DECEMBER 1948

if the hospital census permits. Even when we are
overcrowded, or some special condition prohibits
a large gathering, we try to provide social mixers
so that ward partitions and hospital walls will not
seem too restraining.

Our entire recreation program has been based
on the premise that all children are entitled to a
normal happy childhood, whether victims of a dis-
ease or not. We must go even further, for we must
try by every means to substitute and compensate
for the regular active life these children are miss-
ing. Some of our patients must remain here for
a period of more than two years. During this time,
they are growing and developing, and must have
necessary outlets for the expression of their per—
sonalities. ——7

As nearly as possible, we strive to keep all our
patients’ activities as every—day-like as possible.
This often seems impossible when faced with phys-
ically impaired children and hospital restrictions.
Yet the Hollywood party is an example of what
is really possible under these conditions.

Our recreation program is too limited by space,
facilities, and help to be really as effective as we
would like. We would want a situation where
each child would have the unlimited opportunities
which his individual personality requires.

Hospital hours can seem like days, the days
themselves like weeks. It is often a time when a
patient becomes changed emotionally and spiritu—
ally. In the hospital, a recreation program should
be more than something to help “pass time.” It
should be instrumental in helping to build char-
acters and personalities which will insure happier,
and more useful lives for those whom illness and
disease have cut off from a normal life.

“The value of play as a factor in the educational
and social development of children has received
marked recognition during recent years. The
nursery schools and recreational centers in the
large cities are directed toward this end. In our
hospital (Milwaukee Children’s Hospital), not
only the occupational therapy department, but the
entire staff of doctors, nurses, and X-ray and lab-
oratory technicians are imbued with the psychol-
ogy of play. Besides the playrooms on each floor,
there is play material available for the patients in
the admitting rooms and for those waiting for
X-rays, laboratory work and operations.”—Elsa
Dudenhoefer, Director of Occupational Therapy,
Milwaukee Children’s Hospital.

403

 

Each garment is designed and tailored by volunteers
who shop for unusual fabrics in city costume houses.

INTER SPORTS ACTIVITIES always are colorful
Wand, exciting. We hope, therefore, that the
story of “The Largest Small Town Ice Revue in
the World,” a story of community action and co-
operation, may stimulate the imagination of read-
ers and inspire others to similar undertakings, both
in professional and non—professional fields.

Escanaba is a small city located on Little Bay
de Noc on Lake Michigan, in the Upper Peninsula
of Michigan. The city—according to recent popu-
lation surveys—has 16,000 inhabitants. It prides
itself on a year-round recreation program—in fact,
one of the most outstanding in cities of comparable
size in the midwest. Its recreation department is
one of the established city departments, and most
unique in that the city also has a separate depart-
ment of parks and forestry. When you study the
annual budget, approved by the City Council for
the amount of $30,000, almost two dollars per per-
son, you realize that the effects of this program are
far-reaching and that it has the support of the
entire city. With one director, three full-time
workers, and a number of part-time workers and
volunteers, a balanced program of activities is
made possible. In many instances, it is used as a
model for other cities in adjacent areas, many

municipal representatives coming to Escanaba to-

study the recreation techniques that are used and
the manner in which activities and special events
are staged. The department works effectively in
cooperation with its Advisory Recreation Board,
city officials, the Board of Education, and local
civic organizations.

This story started eleven years ago on one of
the outdoor rinks sponsored by the city. At that
time, the local recreation department undertook to
stage the sort of outdoor winter sports carnival

404

ICE VARIETIES
OF 1948

usual with recreation departments. The carnival
included skating races, the selection and coronation
of a winter sports queen, snow and ice sculpturing,
and so on. These functions were sponsored by
the department in cooperation with the Escanaba
Lions Club. During the carnival proper, several
skaters appeared who were naturally talented in
figure skating. The following year, with the added
stimulus of performing before a large group, a few
more skaters were inspired and, accordingly, pre-
sented a little longer and better exhibition. Six
years later, a small ice revue on one of the out-
door rinks ‘proved to be so gratifying, that the
following year another show was staged; and this
performance served as a stepping stone to the
shows which were to come.

During the war, a resulting loss of a number of
local skaters was counteracted by an arrangement
made between the city and the Upper Peninsula
State Fair Board. The recreation department was
given permission to use the exhibition building at
the State Fair Grounds during the winter season,
for a nominal rental fee. It was found that the
major portion of the exhibition hall, which was
unheated and had a concrete floor, would make an
ideal indoor natural skating rink. The recreation
director had gone to another city, so the chairman
of the figure skating board, Dr. Harold Groos, to-
gether with his wife, mustered a handful of local
enthusiasts and organized the Escanaba Figure
Skating Club, which that year presented the first
local indoor show. Without proper lighting, direc-
tion of skaters, or the necessary properties, the
show was a long way from being an outstanding
event. '

However, the following season and the seasons
to come found each performance better and, in

RECREATION

A Small Town

Community Project

1946, the efforts of the club were aided by the
appointment of a more complete figure skating
board, together with the addition of a new recrea-
tion director. One of the first duties of the board
was to secure a professional figure skating instruc-
tor; and plans skyrocketed for the first major ice
revue, “Circus on Ice.” The following year
brought the ice revue, “Fairyland Fantasies” and,
this year, the “Ice Varieties of 1948—The Largest
Small Town Ice Revue in the World.” Perhaps
the success of this production lies in such facts as:

I. All community organizations cooperate in
staging this event—schools, churches, service clubs
and the Chamber of Commerce.

2. Over two hundred skaters participating train
for over a two-month period for their particular
acts. All are amateurs with the exception of the
director, who is a member of the department staff.
Over three hundred other volunteer workers help
in the staging of the production.

3. All the figure skaters are locally trained by
a department worker, a former professional ice
skater. During the off-season and summer months
they continue their ballet and tap dancing instruc-
tion in the after-school recreation program.

4. All designing and construction of the prop—
erties, staging, and lighting features are worked
out by committees of volunteers.

5. All costumes are designed and made by vol-
unteers who go to New York and Chicago, at their
own expense, to purchase materials for these cos—
tumes from nationally known costume dealers. A
total of two months is used for fittings and sewing
of the costumes, since each garment is specially
tailored for the individual skater—for chorus mem-
bers as well as soloists.

DECEMBER 1948

 

All amateurs, skaters are trained by a staff member,
an ear-professional, and practice dancing off-season.

6. The production is viewed by over 7,000 peo-
ple and is a non-profit venture, comparing with the
best professional shows now on circuits throughout
the nation. Other special performances are staged
in nearby cities, which rely upon Escanaba for
their skating talent. A number of the local skaters
have left the city and, with their background of
skating, have joined various professional shows in
the country.

7. All proceeds of the revue revert to the show
itself, to be used for necessary expenses. Features
of the last two productions have been the black
light numbers in which fluorescent cloth is used
for costumes. The recreation department now has
close to a thousand costumes in its wardrobe,
which are used for dances, festivals, pop concerts,
and so forth.

One of the benefits of this activity is that it pro-
vides for hundreds of children, as well as for their
immediate families and the corps of volunteers, a
recreation activity which extends throughout the
winter season.

C\.

“Outdoor sports, despite their zest and fun, are
often neglected even in communities most favor-
ably situated for their enjoyment. Survey the rec-
reation facilities and opportunities for your town
and its environs. You may find many not prop-
erly utilized, and discover others that have never
been thought of before—for example, sites for
skating rinks, ski and toboggan hills, snowshoe
and hiking trails over hills and through dales.”

—Ernst A. Stewart in The Lion.

405

WATER-COLOR PAINTING IS F UN“

Wkerein Frank A. Staples, Di-
rector of Arts and Crafts for
the National Recreation Associ-
ation, gives practical pointers
on learning bow to paint.

ANY PEOPLE WISH that they could paint pic—
M tures, but never do anything about it. Some
try and become discouraged, usually because of
lack of proper encouragement and information.
Thus this is written to encourage and inform
those who want to paint.

The first thing you need to know is what paints,
brushes, paper, pencils and equipment are re-
quired.

For paints, get the following water colors in
tubes : Alizarin Crimson, Vermilion, Burnt Sienna,
Yellow Ocher, Gamboge, Hooker’s Green Dark,
Cobalt Blue, Ultramarine Blue and Cerulean Blue.
Student colors are satisfactory in the beginning;
later a more expensive color can be purchased.
Eventually, you will want to add the following to
the palette: Raw Sienna, Aurora Yellow, Viridian,
Emerald Green, New Blue and 'Peach Black.

For a palette, a white enamel plate is satisfac-
tory, or you can buy a regular water-color box.
This box will contain colors in pans. Use these
and then squeeze your colors into the empty pans
as needed. Do not squeeze too much at a time as
water-color paint works best when not too dry.

Now for brushes—you can do nicely at first
with the less expensive paints, but from the very
beginning good brushes are important. The best
red sable brushes should be used, and they can be
purchased at any reliable artists’ supply store.
That is where you will get your paints and paper,

 

*From “Water-color Painting is Fun,” prepared for the National
Recreation Association b Frank A. Staples. Just published by
Whittlesey House, New ork and Toronto. $3.50.

406

 

too. In the beginning, you will need two round
red sable brushes, a number twelve and a number
six; later, add one seven-eighth inch flat red sable
brush.

Brushes” are your cherished tools and should be
carefully cared for. The simplest way to keep
them in good condition is to carry them in a case.
Be sure it is wide enough so that there is a small
space between the brushes, and long enough so
that there is extra space above and below the
brushes.

Paper is your next consideration. A water-
color block is most convenient. However, you can
buy your paper in sheets and cut to the size re-
quired. When this is done, alpiece of heavy card-
board or three-ply wood is used as a back support
while, painting. Instead of thumb tacks, use elas-
ties to hold the paper in place.

'In the beginning, any student water-color paper
will do, but later you will want a good grade of
handmade paper. The heavier the weight, the bet-
ter the paper. Thin paper is not very satisfactory;
Most of the best papers are imported. Good water-
color paper comes in three surface grades : smooth,
medium and rough. Medium is recommended for
the beginner. Smooth paper is best for very tight
and detailed painting. Rough paper is difficult for
the beginner. It has its advantages over medium
paper when a great deal of white is desired.

The beginner often tends to use paper that is
too small in size. A good size is twelve by sixteen.
Be sure to paint on the right side if you buy it in
separate sheets. If you will hold the large sheet

RECREATION

of paper up to the light a water mark, which is
the name or trademark of the maker, can be seen.
This water mark reads correctly when the right
side of the paper is facing you.

As one usually draws the details before painting,
a pencil will be needed. Any medium soft lead
pencil will do, such as a B. Mistakes in drawing
are removed with an eraser, art gum being the
best. You also will need a pint or quart water con—
tainer. Try using a glass jar with a screw top.
A lightweight folding campstool is useful, though
not absolutely necessary. Some prefer to sit on
the ground, steps, rocks, and so forth, rather than
carry this piece of equipment.

Now you are almost ready to paint. You have
yet to choose your subject. Some guidance in
making this choice may speed you to success.

If you are not careful, you will be tempted to
draw half the world, or as much of it as you can
see. Half the world is quite an undertaking for a
beginner, so let us go to the other extreme. Our
first subject will be mostly sky. Select a scene con—
taining few trees and buildings, with flat ground.
Then leave out the trees and buildings, painting
only the ground and the sky.

 

Ground one/sky valves only

Why do this? Because first we must learn to
see the big simple relationship between sky and
ground. Then, later, we can add trees and build-
ings, and the like. When we do attempt this, we
will use the same approach—painting only part
of a tree or building. In other words, it is best,

DECEMBER 1948

after having some success with the big relationship
of sky and ground, to make your field of vision a
small area. The field of vision is the amount of

 

SHALL FIELD OF
V | SI 0N

5P1ALL FIELD OF
VISION

picture you paint. Later, when we are successful
in painting these small-lield-of-vision pictures, we
can put them together.

“- 1ch
5' Ill
. i

 J! ./

    

|'

    
  

   

COHBINING 5mm.

FIELD OF VlSlON
PICTURES

After you have chosen your subject you must
make yourself as comfortable as possible. If you
have a campstool, place it firmly on the ground so
that it will not rock or tip while you are working.
If you are sitting on the ground, choose the most
comfortable spot available. Try to arrange your
position so that your paper is in shadow. It is
very difficult and sometimes impossible to see your
colors correctly if sunlight is reflected from your
paper. It will be difficult enough with the best of
conditions, so avoid any unnecessary handicaps.

Now you are ready to try a sky and ground
picture. The pencil drawing is simple. All that
is needed is a horizontal line running across your
paper at the point where the sky and ground meet.
If you do not think about it, you will most likely
draw this line through the center of the paper,
dividing it into approximately two equal parts.
This is not good, for you have given equal impor—
tance to both sky and ground. It is much better
to give one dominance over the other. Try putting

407

the line well below the center, giving prominence
to the sky. Later try one by reversing this idea,
but try the sky one first. Why? Because it is
easier to paint sky than ground.

Next, look at the subject with half-closed eyes,
so as to eliminate all details. Which seems lighter;
the sky or the ground? Usually the sky is lighter.

How much difference is there between them? Try.

to record this difference. It does not matter what
colors you use in this first picture. If you get the
true general lightness and darkness of the sky and
ground, it will look right. For that matter, you
could use two shades of green, red or blue (or
any color), for the skyis sometimes green, red or
blue, and so is the ground. Later you will try to
paint the delicate gradations in the sky, but at first
you are only interested in the big general tone.

Keep at this simplified type of picture until you
feel satisfied that you see it and can paint it.

There are three objectives you must reach be-
fore you will paint well. First, you learn to see;
second, to draw; and third, to control your me-
dium. You do not learn these separately. They
grow together to make up a whole. Your ability
to see, to draw, to control your paint develops si-
multaneously. One helps the other, and yet, at
times, you think of them individually.

What do we mean by ability to see? Our eye-
sight is good; we can see! Yes, that is true, but
the artist must see differently from the layman.
When you paint, you observe only the important
items: those shapes, values and colors that will
give the idea you wish. It is a simplified, yet an
accurate, truthful seeing. You are translating the
beauties of nature. And in doing this, you record
the important truths and ignore the trivial. You
have the advantage over others who do not paint;
you can see the great secret beauties of nature
that are ever before our eyes. What a satisfaction

there is in really being able to see! That is one.

of your rewards for the struggle: the failures you
have turned into successes. And there are other
rewards, too, so don’t give up, even when it looks
hopeless—for at times it has looked that way even
to the great masters of this day and of the past.

And what is drawing—“another of those stum—
bling blocks that we must master? It is the ability
to put on paper what you observe. You see simply
those lines and forms that give you a truthful
translation.

Water color is our medium, and its control is
essential if we are to make accurate interpreta-
tions. To make the colors fiow where. we want
them to go, to keep them clear and sparkling, to
blend them beautifully, and to put them on paper

408

with unhesitating sureness is our objective. This
comes with practice, courage and clear thinking.
When we are successful, even in a small way,
painting is fun.

Outdoor painting has its advantages. First, you
are exposed to fresh air and sunshine; and second,
you are creating your interpretations of natural
beauty. Both are relaxing and healthful.

Creating your own pictures is more fun than
copying pictures painted by others. When you
paint from nature you are creating. -Nature is
stimulating your ability to interpret. Copying is
reproducing accurately every detail. It would be
impossible to copy nature. -Every leaf on a tree
could not be drawn; some must be left out. Let
us go outdoors and paint.

Sim
Soap Carving

 

SCULPTURE IS ALMOST as old as history, but
many of us don’t think to try it for ourselves
because we see the great monuments of the art in
wood, bronze, marble . . . and think it must be too
difficult an art and too costly a medium.
But we can learn to carve or mold things out of
materials which are cheap and easily obtainable
. clay and plaster, for example . . . or soap.
A revised, 1948 Manual of Soap Sculpture has
just been put out by the National Soap Sculpture
Committee, and is available to group leaders and
educators free of charge. The primary purpose of
the committee is to encourage a wholesome, re-
warding, inexpensive art-hobby, with soap being
recommended as a simple and familiar material.
Success with this medium often spurs the beginner
to explore other forms, other materials. The man-
ual is short, concise, full of suggestions and helpful
illustrations. For further information write to the
above committee at I60 Fifth Avenue, New York
IO, New York.

RECREATION

'8’

h
I:
a
I;
I
a
‘1
n

 

DEEMS TAYLOR shows care in his “Clijfdwellers.” JOE LOUIS hung up his gloves, painted with zest.

PA I N T I N G
Is Popular

PAINTING FOR FUN is catching on furiously from coast to
coast. Those who don’t try to paint seriously usually achieve
_a personal whimsy. The eHorts of celebrities, here reproduced,
were among many which were contributed to an exhibition in
the New York galleries of the Associated American Artists for
the benefit of the Urban League}

 

*Reproduced by fermission of LOOK magazine. FRANK SINATRA’S sad “Scrubby.”

KATHERINE CORNELL’S decoys show delightful humor. JOHN GARFIELD’S seascape depicts vitality and strength.

 

Recreation Trends

in the Rural Community

T IS HIGHLY significant that the National Rec-
1 reation Association should hold its National
Congress here at Omaha, in the rural middlewest,
at this time, and that it should be devoting so much
time to rural recreation and to recreation in small
communities. Even the casual observer can detect
new forces at work in the land, and these new
forces are making themselves felt in the rural
areas, thus having a direct bearing on our topic.

Need for Positive Emphasis on Recreation

It would be quite superfluous for me, at this
time and with this group, to point out the place of,
and needs for, recreation. However, there is a
phase of recreation development that we cannot
take for granted—that is, to assume that all other
people feel and believe as we do about it.

As a matter of fact, I think that one of the most
commonly committed errors of many social—minded
individuals is the mistaken belief that people need
guidance and training to qualify them for the best
use of their work time, but that they do not need
such guidance and training for the best use of
their leisure time. Likewise, the general belief
seems to prevail that people need education in their
money—earning endeavors, but that no education
is needed in their money-spending habits and ac-
tivities. I suspect that teachers and ministers and
civic leaders commit this error less frequently than
do many other groups in our society; but even
they fall far short when their emphasis terminates
with a series of “taboos” or “thou shalt nots.”
The fallacy is that we have too often taken for
granted the positive emphasis in recreation.

There is every evidence that we, as a people,
cannot and must not continue to make this mis-
take. With a greatly increased technology in agri-
culture and industry, with a rapid decrease in the
number of working hours, and increased emphasis
on the satisfactions in living, to mention only a
few of the trends, the need for education in, and

410

A. F. Wileden

giving direction to, our leisure-time activities be-
comes increasingly obvious.

Probably one of the most obvious illustrations
of where the lack of a positive education program
in the use of leisure and our money-spending habits
is leading us today, is in the purchase and con-
sumption of alcoholic beverages. In 1946, peOple
of the United States spent about seven billion dolA
lars in the purchase of such beverages, which is at
the rate of almost fifty dollars for every man,
woman and child in the country. This was more
money than we were spending for all types of pub-L
lic education combined. I want to point out the
direction in which it is so easy for us to move as
we get more money to spend and more leisure
time in which to spend it. And I want to empha-
size the urgent need for an organized positive em—
phasis on a program of leisure-time activities, and
the importance of increased attention to education
for leisure.

Importance of the Small Community

However, another need that is just as important,
but probably less obvious, is the deve10pment of
‘strong local communities in our society. The
strength of any society, and most certainly the
strength of a democracy, is dependent upon its
grass root foundations—and those foundations are
its people, its homes and families, and its local
group life. In our great concern today for further—
ing one program or another on a state, or national,
or even international basis, we often forget that
simple fact. "

Particularly are we inclined, today, to forget the
small community. The farmers of this country.
through the Agricultural Extension Service, prob-
ably have the finest system of adult or continuing-
education yet devised anywhere in this world.
Their formal school program is improving. The
large cities and those of intermediate size have
drawn to them the business resources and leader-

RECREATION

ship of the nation. They have their vocational
' schools; many of them have extensive programs of
cultural and civic education (including 'recrea-
tion); and they have the best formal school sys—
tems for their young people. Meanwhile, the small
communities, “neither hay nor grass,” as Dr.
Brunner has described them, are relatively un-
touched by the Agricultural Ex-
tension Service. They are with-
out vocational education other
than that included in the high
school curriculum, and almost in-
variably without organized pro-
grams in the field of civic educa—
tion or recreation. Worse than
that, their most valuable resource,
their youth, is continually being
drained off to the cities. The
strikingly commonplace remark of
the village youth is, “Why should
I stay? There is nothing for me here !” This, and
more, was the picture A. E. Morgan had in mind
when he wrote, “In modern times the small com-
munity has played the part of an orphan in an un-
friendly world. It has been despised, neglected,
exploited, and robbed. The cities have skimmed
off the cream of its young population. Yet the
small community has supplied the life-blood of
civilization, and neglect of it has been one of the
primary reasons for the slowness and interrupted
course of human progress. It is high time that the
fundamental significance of the small community
be recognized.”

At the same time that we have been permitting
all of this to happen, the small community has
been becoming an increasingly important unit in
our society. For one thing, about one-third of the
people of the United States today live in these
small communities; the actual number, of course,
depending on where we draw the line. F urther—
more, the proportion of this'pOpulation is increas-
ing. An analysis of the population from 1930 to 1940
shows that, during that period, the farm popula-
tion of the United States increased only two-tenths
of one per cent, urban population increased 7.9
per cent, but the rural non-farm population in-
creased by 14.2 per cent. This rural non—farm
group included the smaller of these small commu—
nities that we are talking about.

The importance of the small community is
slowly being recognized. The decentralization
movement in industry is looking to the small com-
munity because of the economic advantages it
offers. We are reorganizing our school systems,
whether it be a consolidated or a unified plan, with

DECEMBER 1948 i

Dr. A. F. Wileden, rural so-
ciologist for the University
of Wisconsin, in this address
to the National Recreation
Congress, points out that the

strength of any society is de-

pendent upon its grass root

foundations—its people, its

homes, families and local
group life.

 

the community as a definite part of the picture.
Church leaders are conscious of the precarious
position of the open country and also of the city
church, and are talking of community churches.
Health people are organizing community health
committees and community health councils, and
the number of hOSpitals located in small communi-
ties is rapidly increasing. The
community council movement is
again meeting acceptance in a
number of places. And occasion-
ally it is hinted, if not directly
expressed, that the time has ar-
rived when we should strengthen
the thousands of small rural com-
munities throughout this nation as
a defense against atomic warfare.

Apparently the time has arrived
when recreation-minded people
should, and must, give more at-
tention to the development of sound recreation
programs concerned with the welfare of all the
people who live in these small communities. Occa-
sionally such experiments are now being set up
and carried on in selected communities, but the

procedures are not too clear. Obviously the tra-

ditional methods of organization used up to'this
time are not adequate. It is equally obvious that
the large city pattern of recreation organization is
in need of considerable modification if it is to
meet the conditions which prevail in small com-
munities. It appears to me that one of the major
matters of’present-day concern is with the types
of recreation organization most adaptable to the
thousands of small rural communities, and where

such programs fit in with the other functions of
community life.

Trends in Rural Recreation

I suspect that one of the most fruitful ways of
analyzing our methods of organization for carry-
ing on recreation programs is by observing its
chronological stages of development. I think this
is particularly helpful in rural areas because differ-
ent communities are in these different stages of
development. Yet the different social forces bearing
on the situation today are stimulating them all to
follow along these similar channels.

as

RECREATION ASSOCIATED WITH WORK HABITS
—Historically and culturally in rural America,
our leisure-time activities have been closely asso-
ciated with our work habits. Work has been re-
peatedly emphasized as a virtue. This emphasis

411

has been very strong at certain periods in our
development, and has been, and still is, very strong
with some people. It is an emphasis which has
produced very tangible results in our development
as a nation. It has made possible the carving of
a great nation and a great world power out of/a
wilderness, in a relatively short time. Attitudi-
nally, with many people, it has left little or no
place for leisure. It was Poor Richard’s Almanac,
one of the most widely read publications of less
than two centuries ago, that said “Idleness is the
devil’s workshop”; and idleness was then used
almost synonymously with leisure. This emphasis
was so great that some rural people today have to
apologize to their neighbors for taking a day off.
They subconsciously seek to justify their taking a
vacation or even going to a picnic.

This stage in the development of a leisure-time
program was the day of the barn raising and the
husking bee. It was the period of mutual aid when
farmers helped their less fortunate neighbor get in
his crops. It was the day when men hunted and
fished for food, and women got together to tie a
quilt or even to do the family sewing. You can
easily see why a farmer would go over on a winter
evening to.talk with his neighbor about his crops
and stay for a friendly game of cards. It was logi-
cal that the agricultural fair should start as a very
popular educational enterprise and gradually be—
come more and more of a recreation outing. Rural
people really did work hard to create a farm and
build a home out of the wilderness, and to get
some of the increasingly large number of “mod-
ern” conveniences for the family to use. However,
they were stimulated by an urge for greater satis-
factions beyond these physical things, an urge
which led them to seek personal pleasures within
their economic and cultural framework. They
found that they could achieve some of these satis—
factions for themselves, and secure the approval
of other peeple at the same time, by associating
their play with their work. It is well for us to
remember that some pe0ple and some groups are
still in this stage, or just emerging from it.

SH?

RECREATION AS A FUNCTION OF ORGANIZATION
AND GROUP LIFE—A second stage in the develop-
'ment of a concern for recreation in rural commu-
nities is the one in which most rural areas and
small communities find themselves today. It is the
volunteer recreation leader stage, and really is
divided into two periods.

The first of these was when rural social life
tended to center around two of the leading rural

412

social institutions—school and church. At that
time, a part of the teacher’s recognized job was °
to provide leadership for the total school district,
and usually the teacher lived in the district. These
were the days of the spelling bee and of the geog-
raphy and arithmetic match, participated in by
parents and children together. They were the days
of the school social center or of the school-centered
community club or farmers’ club. Along with this
came a concern on the part of the church to serve
the social needs of its constituency—and particu-
larly of its young people.

However, since World War I, this emphasis on
recreation from the church and school has been
changing, probably not because the leadership
within these groups wanted it to change, but rather
because of certain forces beyond their control. On
the one hand, teachers have become more profes-
sional in the task of teaching children in school,
and the automobile has made it no longer neces-
sary for them to live in the district in which they
teach. Also the emphasis has been on making the
minister a better trained theologian. On the other
hand, an almost entirely new era of special inter-
est groups has come into being—a type of group
that, much like the church, has wanted to use
certain phases of recreation to balance its program
and strengthen its position with the constituency it
would serve. I am referring to the increased ex-
pansion of farm organizations such as the Grange,
the Farm Bureau, and the Farmers Union; of civic
clubs such as the Lions Clubs, Kiwanis, and R0-
tary; of women’s organizations such as Women’s
Clubs, Mothers’ Clubs, Homemakers’ Clubs and
Parent—Teacher Associations; of youth organiza-
tions such as the Boy and_Girl Scouts, 4-H Clubs,
ERA. and F.H.A., and older youth clubs of vari-
ous kinds; and of the many c00peratives. The
numbers and types of these organizations have
been expanding rapidly in the past twenty-five
years, and most of them are concerned with se-
lected phases of a recreation program.

This desire on the part of these many organiza-
tions and the church and school to provide at least
part of a recreation program to a part of the com—
munity, has given rise to a number of major or-
ganizational problems. Particularly is this the case
when we realize that, like the church, the major
interest of these organizations is almost always in
some other field, with only a secondary interest in
recreation. One of these problems is the need for
these various groups, each with somewhat differ-
ent points of view, to get together on some sort
of area basis and plan for the total needs of the
total area. It is this situation and this need that

RECREATION

have led to the development, in many areas, of
informal programs of community cooperation and
also to the development of community councils.
Frequently, in small communities, these councils
virtually have become recreation councils, and
some are recognized by that name. A successful
program of community cooperation, or a commu-
nity council, necessitates a willingness on the part
of the various local organizations and their leaders
to sublimate their personal and group desires and
ambitions in terms of the total welfare of the area,
and also a willingness on the part of the “outside”
leadership in each of these organizations to permit
this to be done. There are, today, increasing num-
bers of illustrations of such successful cooperation
to the mutual benefit of all concerned.

Another of the recognized needs coming out of
this situation is for “trained recreation leaders.”
Many, but not all, of our recreation activities are
of a group nature and necessitate group leaders
with certain knowledge and skills. A total recrea-
tion program requires leadership with understand-
ing and perspective. Very seldom have preachers,
or teachers, or organization leaders secured much
training along these. lines. Very few professional
recreation leaders with these qualifications are
available, even if rural communities wanted 'to
employ them. The immediate, solution, therefore,
is to try to provide some of this vision and under-
standing and skill to large numbers of volunteer
leaders. It is this task that the National Recre-
ation Association initiated on a national basis a
number of years ago. It is this task that the Agri-
cultural Extension Service, in .a number of states,
has been, and now is, carrying on. It is this task,
in an expanded way, that a number of states are
now meeting through the Recreation Leaders Lab-
oratory movement. In Wisconsin, for example,
the Recreation Leaders Laboratory Association,
in cooperation with the Agricultural Extension
Service, last year, through its state, regional and
county laboratories, provided recreation training
to about 1,800 leaders and prospective leaders.
This laboratory association, which states its pur-
pose to be “to discover, develop and train volun—
teer recreation leaders,” is a cooperative effort be-
tween churches, schools, rural and village organi-

zations, cooperatives, welfare agencies and the ex-
tension service.

an

RECREATION AS A PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY—A
third stage in the development of a program of
leisure-time activities, and one which even in small
communities will become more important in the

DECEMBER 1948

future, is its development as a public responsibility.
Education for work, and the carrying on of adult
educational programs concerned with earning a
living, have long been considered a responsibility
of government. I believe we are at the threshold
of a similar development in the field of education
for leisure and in the general direction of leisure-
time activities. The public library movement has,
of course, pioneered in this field. (The National
Recreation Association has worked to this end for
many years in the recreation field.——~Ed.) Further-
more, regardless of how we may have felt about it
at the time, the recreation program carried on
during the recent depression years by the Works
Progress Administration gave the publicly spon-
sored recreation movement a great impetus. Even
though the leadership was often weak and poorly
qualified, many people envisioned the possibilities
of a broad recreation program for the first time.
All of us, I expect, know of cases where people
who had tried to provide their own recreation
leadership on a volunteer basis found it more con-
venient to call on WPA to provide that leader-
ship; and when WPA was terminated, found
themselves caught short. The simple fact is that
the idea of a publicly paid recreation leadership,
similar to other fields of education and welfare,
was planted in many areas. The U.S.O. move-
ment, through returning service men and women,
has given it impetus; and that idea has now taken
root.

The results are that today even some very small
communities are employing recreation directors
out of public funds. Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin.

 

a small town with a population of about 1,500 peo-
ple in its incorporate limits and probably about
3,000 people in its service area, is an example.
Other small communities have expanded the ap-
pointment of one or more members of their high
school faculty to twelve months and given them
the increased responsibility of providing recreation
leadership for the entire community, with special
emphasis on children during the summer months
when they are not in school. Occasionally, also,
counties or parts of counties have employed rec-
reation supervisors. These are rural adaptations
of a plan rather generally accepted in our larger

413

cities, and even in many of our small cities that
have rather fully staffed recreation departments.

As a matter of fact, probably the two major
factors that have slowed the more rapid expansion
of a publicly sponsored recreation program have
been the usual reluctance on the part of public”
ofhcials to allocate tax money for new purposes,
and the lack of adequately trained professional
recreation leadership. Up to this time much of
the emphasis by professional leadership in the rec-
reation field has been on physical education with
special attention to competitive athletics. This has
been true both in and out of the public school
system, and has been the characteristic emphasis
in our newspapers and over the radio. A much
broader concept of recreation is developing today,
and is being demanded by rural and village people.
The request is for a program including cultural,
social and manual recreation, as well as physical
recreation. This necessitates a type of profession-
ally trained leadership which, up to this time, has
been inadequate to meet the needs. It was to meet
this demand that the University of Wisconsin a
year ago launched a curriculum for training such
leadership. The bases for this curriculum are an
adequate background in the social sciences, train-
ing in a number of skill areas, and training in pro-
fessional methods and techniques. Other univer-
sities and colleges are developing similar curricula.

I do not wish to imply that I believe all profes-

sional recreation leaders should be employed
through public funds. Many private agencies, such
as the Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A., Boy Scouts and
Girl Scouts, Red Cross, Labor Unions, Industrial
Plants, Farm Organizations and Cooperatives
should, and will, continue to provide their constitu—
encies with staff qualified in this field. However,
I venture a prediction that more and more such
personnel, working in the interest of all of the
people, will be provided through public funds.

Neither do I wish to imply that I think such
professional leadership will supplant all volunteer
leadership. The very essence of a recreation pro-
gram is the voluntary aspect of it, and one phase
of voluntary expression is voluntary leadership.
It seems to me that what is likely to develop in the
small rural community is professionally trained
direction for the program, using a staff of volun-
teer leaders—especially in the skill areas. In many
communities, as I indicated above, this will prob—
ably take the form of an expansion of the already
available professional recreation leadership in the
schools. However, this will often require differ-
ently trained teachers than schools have employed
up to the present time. Also, it is frequently going
to require an expanded vision of the responsibility
of the modern school to the community. There is
considerable evidence that, through our centralized
or unified school systems, we are moving in this
direction.

Rural Recreation —— South Carolina Way

ANY COUNTY AGRICULTURAL extension lead-
M ers appreciate the fact that recreation activ-
ities add interest and fellowship to their program.
Florence County, South Carolina, for example, has
an active rural program, and it is interesting to
note the amount of recreation included. Each 4-H
and Farm Women’s Club has a chairman of recre-
ation and music, and a part of each club meeting
is devoted to a period of games and fellowship.

One year’s program has included the following
recreation activities: a skit on the “Origin and
Meaning of the 4-H Program” ; a nature program;
seasonal parties; a food conservation program, in-
cluding planning of refreshments; flower arrange-
ment suggestions.

All Farm Women’s Clubs in the county belong
to the County Council of Farm Women, which
holds two meetings a year, each one being planned
around a special interest. One such meeting used
the theme—“Consumer’s Education.” Two hos-
tess clubs took charge of arrangements, group

414

singing and refreshments. The speaker chose the
topic, “Better Buys,” and exhibits for the meeting
included items suggestive of “saving,” such as
made over garments, and the like.

A Rally Day, held last fall, was a great success.
It started with a parade down the main street of
Florence, headed by a police patrol. All traffic was
stopped and, since there‘was no band, boys and
girls sang 4-H songs. Each club carried its own
banner. The 500 boys and girls who took part
marched to the park, where the Kiwanis Club
served luncheon and led games; then went to the
local theater for a special program. Several new
clubs have decided to organize since the rally, and
five new groups are now on the waiting list.

Money raising projects are also planned with an
emphasis on such recreation activities as fish
suppers, barbecues, plays, and variety tables at
meetings—surplus foods such as butter, eggs, and
other farm produce, aprons, canned goods, seeds,
cuttings which are donated and sold at low cost.

RECREATION

 

Football—Standing Up—So that its young
football enthusiasts may play the game with much
less' risk of injury, “touch” football leagues are
now being organized at Los Angeles municipal
playgrounds. Since most junior Blanchards and
Davises usually lack protective pads, headgear and
specialized training, “touch” football is a safer
variation of the game in that it eliminates tackling
and massed line play and reduces the number of
players of each team from eleven to seven, The
playground leagues are being divided into a junior
class for boys fifteen years of age and under, and
a senior division for youths eighteen years of age
and under. After the season’s play at each recrea—
tion center produces a local championship team,
the winners will compete in district playoffs and
then, finally, in city-wide playoffs for the Los An-
geles playgrounds “touch” football championship.

§£¢
A Musical Anniversary—It was about one
year ago—December I6——that the Toledo, Ohio,
Division of Recreation made its musical debut.
Under its sponsorship, eight vocal groups joined
talents for a Choral Parade held at the city’s

Museum of Art. Among those who blended their
voices in traditionals and favorites were the Waite
High School Choir, singing “O Come All Ye
Faithful” and “Silent Night”; the Men’s Glee
Club of the Sun Oil Company and the St. Mary’s

DECEMBER 1948

Men’s and Boys’ Choir, each singing well-known
selections; the Police and Fireman’s Glee Club,
lending their baritone and tenor voices to “Dear
Land of Home” and “The Lost Chord.” The
recreation division was very successful in its first
attempt to bring to the people of Toledo a vocal
festival comprising representative singing groups
from churches, schools, industries and social or-
ganizations. Everyone is now looking forward to
this year’s second Choral Parade.

S'r‘%

Ghostly Reminiscence—Giant community
Halloween carnivals were held the night of Satur-
day, October 30, at playgrounds and recreation
centers throughout Los Angeles. Under plans set
in motion by the city recreation and park depart-
ment, great bonfires blazed at playground centers,
lighting the way for the arrival of troupes of cos—
tumed ghosts, hobgoblins, witches and other eerie
characters of all sizes—from tiny toddlers to full-

~ grown spooks. After this came costume parades,

music, entertainment, contests, treasure hunts,
stunts, trips through “haunted houses,” dancing
on lighted tennis courts and in community club—
houses, popcorn, hot dogs, lemonade and other fun
for everyone. It all added up to seventy-one car-
nivals and dances, sixty-three children’s parties,
I36 youth and adult parties, sixty children’s plays,
and a total of 330 events.“

415

CREATING AN ILLUSION

T ONE TIME or another, almost all amateur and
A semi-professional play producers are called
upon to take a not—too-experienced cast, supported
by something less than the latest mechanical equip-
ment, and stage a highly polished version of
Shakespeare’s “Macbeth” or another equally for-
midable play.

One of the major problems of these harrassed
producers is how to handle those delicate, and
sometimes deceptive, scenes in classical and mod-
ern plays which call for an illusion of the super—
natural or freakish. Such scenes, especially in
Shakespeare, are apt to appear more ludicrous
than dramatic when produced without a sure and
experienced touch.

The answer to “weak” productions may lie in a
new technique which employs “special photo-
graphic effects,” or, more simply, motion pictures,
to intensify the effect of an illusion while injecting
an element of novelty and surprise into the diffi-
cult scenes. Certain sequences and bits of action
in many plays lend themselves perfectly to the
medium of the motion picture ; when photographed
in a studio and then projected on the stage during
the performance, an invigorating combination of
the two entertainment mediums is the result.

In their recent production of “Macbeth,” the
University of Minnesota Players used this motion
picture technique to good advantage. That great
tragedy calls for the sudden materialization of the
three witches at several points during the action.
These weird sisters are ministers of evil; they
command the forces which motivate the chief char-
acters in the play, and are thus of the utmost im-
portance. Their scenes must “come off” if the
play is not be reduced to a farce; but the cave, the
cauldron, the gruesome ingredients in their wicked

416

A Novel Idea

broth, their wild and withered aspect, the grim
mirth of these inhuman things, all present to the
amateur a tough problem in representation.

Aside from the witches themselves, there is also
the problem of how to execute the stage directions
in the witch scenes. The sequences are replete with
such directions as “witches vanish,” “first appari-
tion: an armed head,” “second apparition: a child
crowned,” or “a show of eight Kings, Banquo’s
ghost following,” and finally “the witches dance
and then vanish.” As Macbeth says, “What seemed
corporal melted as breath into wind.”

To achieve all these desired effects, and to in-
tensify the witch scenes, the theater group’s direc-
tor and designer, Frank M. Whiting, called upon
the moving picture. With the cooperation of the
University’s audio-visual department, the witch
scenes were photographed in a studio, all in one
day, using regular members of the cast, ordinary
black and white 16 mm. motion picture film, plus
a few tricks of photography. The illusion of the
apparition was accomplished by the use of the
“dissolve” method, which allows characters, when
photographed in a certain way, to appear or dis-
appear as if out of thin air. The acting for the
screen sequences was simplified, and not as subtle
as if for the stage, while the lighting was deliber-
ately kept sharp so that the total effect was a clear
and distinct picture.

Projection was done with a regular 16 mm.
machine. The picture was thrown onto a large
backdrop of “scrim,” a seamless theatrical gauze
which can take a projected picture and still allow
light to come from behind, thus decreasing the
“silver screen” effect which might spoil the desired
illusion of a sudden apparition. The stage, too,
was dark during the projection, with the exception

‘ RECREATION

for Amateur T heatricals

John H. Dahn

of small spotlights on the actors involved in the
scene. Dark drapes were used to soak up any pos—
sible reflection on the fioor or walls near the back-
drop. To further increase the chimerical atmos-
phere, a cloud effect, made with a regular spot-
light and a revolving cloud-disk attachment, was
projected on the same backdrop with the pictures
of the witches.

Thus, on cue, three life-sized old crones sud—
denly materialized in mid-air on the stage, star-
tling the audience and holding their credulity much
longer than might have been possible with serio-
comic actors trying to hold an illusion. The pro—
jection of the three witches and their ensuing
action blended with the other action and dialogue
on the stage. Off-stage voices spoke for the pic-
ture actors, but a sound film could have been used.
The playwright’s directions were carried out to
the letter-——the apparitions appeared upper left on
the stage; Macbeth addressed his lines to them;
they performed their “business,” and vanished.

This change from “live” actors to “celluloid”
ones for certain types of characters doubles the
effect of make—believe, while the change of medium
affords a chance to use all manner of trick photog—
raphy for desired effects. By the change, your
audience is forced to divorce itself from any close
personal connection with actors trying to “put
over” a supernatural impression; the attitude of
look-at—Joe—up-there—trying-to-act, which is sudden
death to some amateur plays, is greatly diminished
by using movie sequences for those parts, in that
you are aided by the “acceptance” of the motion

picture as a regularly used medium for phantasy
and illusion in entertainment.

There are limitless opportunities to use special
photographic effects ——in plays, in pageants, as

DECEMBER 1948

striking backgrounds for pantomimes and tab-
Ieaux, even in puppet shows, and in the so—called
“Living Newspapers” in which a regular docu-
mentary film is inserted into the action of a play
to help drive home a point at issue.

Other uses are less ambitious and involve mostly
background effects. Hardly a play producer has
not, at some time, heard the artist’s pleas for “real”
snow falling in the background, or some “lifelike”
clouds seen through a doorway. All he could do
was to sadly shake his head, but now the motion
picture can provide the background. A stock shot
from a film library or one made by an amateur,
projected from behind the stage onto any type of
transluscent screen, will provide a most authentic
background.“As a matter of fact, once you begin
to think in terms of using the photographic arts
in play productions, there are few places in which
they do not seem to have good use.

As for costs and technical difficulties, they will
depend on the magnitude of the special effect you
attempt and the amount of costly experimenting
you do to achieve that affect. But to the ques—
tion of whether it is practical to try special photo-
graphic effects in amateur or semi—professional
productions, the answer is probably yes, although
individual cases require individual answers.

It is well to remember that, since the end of the
war, a great many experts and trained technicians
in photography have returned from the services.
Practically every city, and most towns, have an
amateur-professional who may have had consider—
able training in the Army or Navy. Then, too,
there are more than two hundred schools and col-
leges in the United States which can produce their
own movies. Good pictures have been made in Los
Angeles, Denver, Dearborn, Cleveland, Oakdale,
Greenwich and a hundred other public schools, not
to mention the colleges and universities equipped
to do the job. Add to these the many local motion
picture producing companies, and it is evident that
no small reservoir of photographic experience is
available for a play producer to tap.

There are no rules for this experimental use of
photography in play productions, nor is there any
precedent to follow; the only limitations are imag-
ination and financial resources. One thing can be
said, on the basis of audience reaction Where it has
been tried—the special effect is worth the special
effort.

(Perhaps a library of film strips could be built up by a
group, such as in the University of Minnesota, which can
afford such experimentation and has the necessary photo-
graphic help. These could then be made available to other
drama groups wishing to try such devices—Ed.)

417

AMERICANS ALL

Mary Barnum Bush Hauck

5 PART OF the celebration of Brotherhood

Week, which will fall on the dates February

20 to 27 this winter, many communities will be

considering the presentation of a community folk

festival. This account of a successful, annual folk

festival, held in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, carries
ideas for other community projects.

Upwards of 2,500 persons jammed into the
Forum of the State Education Building, one eve—
ning in June to see and hear the 500 persons, of
many heritages, participating in Dauphin County’s
Twelfth Annual Folk Festival, “Americans All.”
This was sponsored by the Dauphin County Folk
Council with Dr. I. D. App as chairman, and I as
founder and director of the festival. Edward C.
Michener, art consultant for the Council, designed
the stage settings.

The episodes of the various groups were built
around the theme of the festival, “E Pluribus
Unum,” (One Out of Many). Interwoven into this
theme were the historical facts explaining the sig—
nificance of all the symbols which are used in the
Great Seal of the United States.

The opening scene was called “E Pluribus
Unum,” featuring “Dauphin County at Work.”
It included a waitress, doctor, model, housewife,
serviceman, telephone lineman, milkman, architect,
engineer, and so on, each wearing the garb pecu—
liar to his particular profession. Chief Fireway
and Little Rising Sun, American Indians, pre—
sented “The Eagle Dance,” illustrating the sym-
bolic use of the eagle in the Great Seal.

A colorful and “true to life” scene, “A Night
in Steelton,” was presented by the Serbian Sing—
ing Society Marinkovich. Second generation chil—
dren danced the traditional Kolo, while their par—
ents sang the accompaniment. The group also
presented traditional love ballads and work tunes.

“A Picnic in the Woods” was beautifully por-
trayed by forty children of the Slovak Jednota
Home, Middletown, attired in traditional costume.
In this scene the children celebrated “the awak—
ening of nature—Spring.”

A group of provincial French songs were sung

418

“An activity for promoting brotherhood
and good citizenship.” "

by Marie Magdeleine Herbert, soloist.

The “Americans All” idea was brought dra—
matically and impressively to the foreground by
seventy members of the Harrisburg Symphony
Choir. As the curtain went up, the choir members,
attired in purple robes, stood on both sides of the
stage, facing the American flag, unfurled in a
breeze in center backstage. The narrator, Dr. M.
Claude Rosenberry, Chief, Music Education, ex—
plained the historical background of the music in
the patriotic song, “America,” and of its verses.
The house and stage were plunged into total dark-
ness between the third and fourth verses. A spot—
light fell on a large replica of the United States
Seal. The choir sang the final stanza, which is a
prayer, on their knees, with their hands clasped.

“All on a Summer’s Day” included a group of
three intricate German dance patterns by the third
generation German-American group. “War No
More” was effectively presented by the Negro
“Prim Singer’s”.

The modern Greek “Carnival” was colorfully
and gain done by the Hellenic Youth Organiza-
tion of Harrisburg. Among the three dance
rhythms was the “Tsamikos”. The dancers wore
masks, and wove intricate patterns with ribbons
around a flower—trimmed ‘Maypole. “Swing Your
Partners the American Way,” by the American
Folk Dance Group of the Harrisburg Area, con-
cluded the event. Dr. George H. Ashley, exponent
of Cecile Sharp, founded this Old English dance
group twenty years ago.

All the festivals have been free to the public and
are financially supported by individuals and organ—
izations within the community. The Department
of Public Instruction of Pennsylvania indorses the
folk lore festival as a cultural “out of school” ac-
tivity for promoting brotherhood and good citizen-
ship. The festival’s aim is to serve as a medium to
bind folk legacies of many lands into “a national
fabric of beauty and strength for American citi—
zenship.” Extensive plans are now being made by
the Dauphin County Folk Council for the 1949
production.

RECREATION

A High School Club System

A recreation survey in which activities of students
are limited to those where participation is voluntary.*

TUDENTS at the high school in Williamsport,

Pennsylvania, through their club system, can
take part in a variety of recreation activities of a
voluntary nature, including clubs established for
purely recreation purposes and honorary social
clubs. Arranged to meet and satisfy the needs of
all, the club system was organized to provide an
opportunity to expand various interests and hob-
bies, and to promote the exchange of ideas and
opinions between those young people with similar
interests. ‘

Varied Student Interests

The drama always holds an appeal for many.
To further this interest, three different dramatics
clubs meet twice a month. The Sophomore Club
maintains an average of twenty members who ob-
serve outside performers and read and discuss
plays. The twenty-eight members of the Junior
Club learn stage make—up, review Broadway plays,
and present radio skits. Members of the Senior
Dramatics Club present plays, skits in assembly,
and radio programs.

An important dramatics event is the senior class
play, which is chosen with the idea of having a
good-sized and well—balanced cast. In addition to
this, the seniors also present a class day program,
which often takes the form of a musical review
and includes a large cast. For students primarily
interested in radio broadcasting, there are weekly
thirty-minute broadcasts from the assembly, with
boys and girls taking part in the skits and serving
as announcers.

Several musical organizations provide for the
musically inclined students, and promote an inter—
est in listening to, as well as playing, good music.
The band, composed of a hundred members who
practice daily, is heard at football and basketball
games, assemblies, concerts and community affairs.
A symphony orchestra also plays in assembly, at
concerts and at community affairs. The dance
orchestra, a smaller group, plays for student coun-
cil dances, school parties and assembly programs.

The choir, composed of thirty-two voices, and

DECEMBER 1948

the glee club, with I40 pupils participating, com-
prise the vocal activities at the school. They af-
ford a chance for a better selection of choral music
and the opportunity for voice development. Both
groups make appearances in churches, schools and
service clubs’in the community.

To promote interest, loyalty and understanding
throughout the school, as well as to develop the
creative and reporting abilities of talented and
eligible pupils, the Williamsport High School has
two publications. The “Cherry and White” is pub-
lished six times yearly by a staff of fifty—five stu-
dents, mostly seniors. The business staff handles
circulation, promotes advertising campaigns, so-
licits advertising and handles money. “La Mem-
oire,” the yearbook, is published annually by a
staff of forty-live boys and girls. During the sum—
mer, members of the business staff solicit adver-
tisements from local merchants and, in the fall,
solicit student subscriptions and run a large ad—
vertising campaign.

Journalists have a chance to study and discuss
activities in their field at the monthly meetings of
the Quill and Scroll Club, sponsored by North-
western University. Members of this club must
be of at least junior standing, in the upper third
of the class, and recommended by the faculty ad—
viser for superior work done in journalistic or
creative writing. Initiations into the club are con-
ducted at the annual publications banquet.

Athletic and Club Activities

As important features of the over-all recreation
program, athletic activities and varsity sports lead
the field in popularity and actual student partici-
pation. There are about eighty boys on the Wil-
liamsport High School football team, and the bas-
ketball team is also very popular. Both these teams
develop sportsmanship as well as skill.

A much larger number of students take part in
the intramural activities. Intramural sports for

 

*Data secured by Miss Patricia Gearhart president of the Pep
Club, and Miss Rhoda Forman a member of a Problems of Democ-
racy class, under guidance of Russell H. Rhoads, head of the

Department of Social Studies.

419

boys include tennis, volleyball, basketball, wres-
tling, badminton, golf, swimming, bowling, track
and field, and boxing. The girls’ program includes
soccer, tennis, field hockey, volleyball, basketball,
archery, badminton, shufHeboard, swimming, ping
pong, softball, and bowling. Most of these groups
meet twice weekly, according to the season.

Popular also are the various hobby clubs, such
as the current events club; a Spanish Club which
features speakers, games, music and discussions
about our South American neighbors; a Deutscher
Verein (German club) ; a movie appreciation club;
a debate club, carrying on intramural debates; the
Pep Club, which promotes interest in school sports
and works with the cheerleaders; the math engi;
neers club; the chemistry club; the home eco—
nomics club and the library club. The Hi-Y and
Hi-Tri Clubs are also social organizations, formed
with the idea of creating, maintaining and extend-
ing high standards of character.

To the many students who participate in extra-
curricular activities, under the Williamsport High
School club system, there is an opportunity to be
of service, as well as to gain experience and pleas-
ure. Committees are appointed to help with parties
and proms, and club members serve the school by
cooperating in its many programs and activities.

’ Night Classes

Williamsport High School’s recreation program
doesn’t stop with its regular pupils, but strives
also to meet the recreation needs of adults, vet-
erans and postgraduate students through night
classes. Generally meeting once a week are night
classes in vocational woodworking, arts and crafts,
commercial art, foods, interior decorating and
weaving. Others, which meet more often, are the
radio class, the ceramics class, and the dressmak-
ing class. A class providing recreation for vet-
erans has also been established.

\€=9/

A Junior Football Program

Marshall B. Laird

ACED WITH THE problem of allowing boys to
Fplay football without supervision, adequate fa-
cilities or equipment, a few interested fathers in
Scarsdale, New York, formed a Junior Football
League in 1944.

At that time a municipal recreation department
had not been established. Now the newly estab-
lished recreation department acts as coordinator
and league secretary for the entire football pro-
gram. '

There are two leagues: one is known as the
Junior League and the other as the Intermediate
League. The written consent of parents is re-
quired in order to play tackle football.

Organization

The leagues function through a Central Com-
mittee which has jurisdiction over all league
affairs. This Central Committee consists of a
chairman, a local father interested in boys’ foot-
ball, a secretary, and a representative each of the

420

Physical Education Department of the Public and
Parochial Schools, the recreation department, and
each team.

The teams are under the direction of the fathers
of the boys and other men interested in the sport.
This policy is encouraged because one of the ob-

jectives of the leagues is to have fathers work
with their sons.

Whether or not football ac-
tivities for juniors are a
wise venture is a question of

wide debate. The National

Recreation Association
would welcome comments
on the advantages and dis-
advantages of this activity.

 

RECREATION.

The Junior League is made up of boys up to
and including the sixth grade in any of the village
schools.

The Junior Intramural or Intermediate League
is composed of boys up to and including the ninth
grade, who meet eligibility requirements. All boys
in this classification are asked to sign up and team
~ squads are formed, allowing from twenty-two to
twenty-seven boys per squad. Upon election by
the boys, each captain chooses one player to assist
him—according to a draw between captains for
the choice of first, second, and third teams. 'A
coach is assigned to each captain who, with the
guidance of his player assistant and coach, deter-
mines the relative preference for additional play-
ers in the group to make up his squad.

Local high school junior varsity and varsity
players act as officials; regulation high school rules
are used; and officials are instructed in the use of
the “quick whistle” to avoid possible injuries.

Games

All games are played on Saturday mornings and
consist of four twelve-minute quarters with a ten
minute intermission at half time. Junior teams are
permitted sixty seconds and intramural teams
forty-five seconds, instead of the prescribed thirty.
from the time the referee places the ball until the
snap of the next play. Unlimited time-outs are al-
lowed each team,‘ to permit more substituting.

All players are fully equipped with headgear,
shoulder pads, football pants and shoes, through
the cooperation of neighborhood associations and
a policy of collecting football gear “handed down”
by older boys.

Fields measure eighty or one hundred yards in

length and, contrary to some other programs, a
regulation football is used.

Scoring

In addition to the customary points awarded
for a touchdown, point after touchdown, field goal
or safety, each team is credited with ten points for
each game in which all players on its official squad
play approximately two minutes or more. For
each game, the credit of ten points will be reduced
by one point for each player who does not play
approximately two minutes or more. This point
factor, complete with ten points for each game won

and totaled at the end of the regular playing sched-
ule, selects the winner.

Eligibility
All players are required to meet the eligibility

standards as listed. These have been established
to reduce the risks involved by limiting the differ-

DECEMBER 1948

ences between the boys with respect to age, weight
and height. These limits are based upon league
averages since such averages represent the normal
boy at his proper grade limit.

The following classification table is strictly fol-
lowed. The classification number is the sum of
three factors: age, weight, and height, as taken
as of September of the current season:

AGE “A” WEIGHT “W” HEIGHT “H”

Yr. Mo. to Yr. Mo. Factor Lbs. Factor Ft. In. Factor
10- 1t010-3 1 61- 65 1 4- 6 1
10- 4 “ 10-6 2 66- 70 2 4- 8 2
10- 7 “ 10-9 3 71- 75 3 4-10 3
10-10 “ 11-0 4 76- 80 4 5- 0 4
11- 1 “ 11-3 5 81- 85 5 5- 2 5
11- 4 “ 11-6 6 86- 90 6 5- 4 6
11- 7 “ 11-9 7 91- 95 7 5- 6 7
11-10 “ 12-0 8 96-190 8 5- 8 8
12- 1 “ 12-3 e 9 101-105 9 5-10 9
12- 4 “ 12-6 10 106-110 10 6- O 10
12- 7 “ 12-9 -11 111-115 11 6- 2 11
12-10 “ 13-0 ‘ 12 116—120 12 6- 4 12
13- 1 “ 13-3 13 121-125 13

13- 4 “ 13-6 14 126-130 14

13- 7 “ 13-9 15 131-135 15

13-10 “ 14-0 16 136-140 16

14- 1 “ 14-3 17 141-145 17

14- 4 “ 14-6 18 146-150 18

14- 7 “ 14-9 19 151-155 19

14-10 “ 15-0 20 156-160 20

Summary

This village-wide program recently completed
its fourth year of play. During the season of 1947,
some two hundred and ten boys participated.
Such a program has afforded keen competition
and training of team play, resulting in the build-
ing of strong bodies, healthy minds and the whole-
some spirit of good sportsmanship.

Supervision and strict adherence to the playing
code shows a record of no serious injuries in four

years of play.

(See World at Play note, “Football—Standing Up,”
page 415.——Ed.)

 

Recreation News

City of Gardeners

The New York Park Association’s Golden An-
niversary plan, whereby citizens may contribute
flowering shrubs and trees to the city for badly
needed permanent plantings in parks and parkways,
has already received enthusiastic response. Nearly
a half hundred civic and other organizations have
volunteered their cooperation. The Park Depart—
ment has prepared, for public infofmation, lists of
park and parkway areas in all boroughs where addi—
tional plantings are needed. The kinds of desirable
plants and the cost of each are included in these
lists. The minimum price is two dollars and fifty
cents for a forsythia or rugosa rose. Flowering
Japanese cherry trees and dogwood range from
eighteen dollars to thirty dollars, depending on
size; azaleas are fifteen dollars and laurel twelve
dollars. The donor is permitted to designate the
borough and park or parkway in which he wishes
his gift to be planted. The Park Association’s oHice
is at 119 East Nineteenth Street.

November Referendum Elections

By a vote of 2,693 to 1,256, the one mill levy in
Norwalk, Ohio, originally authorized in 1944, was
approved for another five-year-period, for recrea—
tion, park services and facilities.

* * *

A bond issue for two million dollars was ap—
proved by voters in Baltimore, Maryland, to be
used largely for modernizing existing swimming

pools of the city.
:1: * :2:

In Omaha, Nebraska, over 15,000 more people
voted one way or another'this November than did
in May. Although the mill levy was lost by approx-
imately 2,300 votes—out of the more than 70,000
votes cast—«most of the various city commissions,
including that for parks and recreation, were given
a vote of confidence of from two-to-one to three-

to-one.
* * *

The voters of Niles, Ohio, approved, by an eighty
per cent majority, levies for recreation and parks.

422

Youth Forum

Six junior high school students, composing the
panel to discuss “Who Governs Our City?” at
the first New York Times Youth Forum in Octo-
ber, were found to be chiefly interested in more
playgrounds and recreation centers. The forum
was attended by 500 children from public, paro—
chial and private schools. Before the discussion
began, City Council President Vincent T. Impel-
litteri explained briefly the city’s responsibilities
and the method of financing the cost of the city’s
operation. Members of the panel, questioned by
the moderator, showed considerable knowledge of
the various municipal departments and their func-
tions, and particular concern regarding the recrea-
tion situation. The children asked for more play-
grounds and better locations for them, and they
were told that New York City has made great
strides in this direction, transforming many slum
areas along East River and Riverside Drive into
playgrounds and ball fields. The statement was
made that playgrounds are the problem of the
Commissioner of Parks, and mention of Robert
Moses’ name brought cheers from the youthful
audience.

Personnel Changes Down South

Associate State Forester, C. H. Schaeffer, has re-
signed after twenty-four years work in forestry and
state parks in the South, twelve of which have
been with the South Carolina State Commission
of Forestry. Mr. Schaeffer was appointed in 1937,
and established the educational and informational
work of the commission, which has been very
conducive to the advancement of both forestry and
state parks in South Carolina.

>l< >l< *

C. West Jacocks, former Chief of Recreation in
South Carolina, has recently replaced T. D. Rave-
nel as the Director of State Parks. Mr. Jacocks is
well-known throughout the state from his years of
experience in the work of the Boy Scouts, the

South Carolina Fish and Game Association, and
the United States Fish and Wild Life Service.

RECREATION

City Planning Week

ACK IN 1945, the Buffalo City Planning Asso-
B ciation realized that it must place civic plan-
ning on a more universal basis if the group was
to meet with continued success. In that year, the
organization sponsored what it believes to be the
first civic planning week in the country. Since
then, one week each year has been set aside by an
official proclamation of the mayor which urges all
citizens to come forward at this time with sugges-
tions for the betterment of the community.

Each year, emphasis has been placed on a dif-
ferent phase of city planning. Taking its cue from
a report of the National Recreation Association,
which disclosed that Buffan was deficient in the
total size and distribution of its parks and play-
grounds, the planning association this year decided
on a recreational theme.

Long before the mayor’s proclamation desig-
nated the week of October 18-23 as Civic Planning
Week, Charles P. Penney, member of a local law
firm and a vice-president of the planning organiza-
tion, was appointed chairman of a committee to
plan the activities of the week, and sub-committees
were appointed to handle the individual functions.

Permission was obtained from public and paro-
chial school authorities to include, in' the regular
English curriculum of all students from seventh

 

Lebert H. Weir, left, with Mrs. Howard Babcock,
Harry Hainsworth, Buffalo’s Director of Recreation

DECEMBER 1948

grade through high school, the composition of an
essay entitled “Where Shall We Play?” To aid
students in obtaining the facts needed for the
preparation of these essays, 57,000 c0pies of a
pamphlet, which bore the appropriate heading of
“Thought Starters,” were published and distrib-
uted to the school children by the association.

The luncheon meeting, which inaugurated the
week’s activities, was addressed by Lebert H.
Weir, a held representative of the National Recre-
ation Association. On hand for Mr. Weir’s dis-
cussion were members of the Buffalo City Plan-
ning Association’s board of directors and their
guests, city officials, and representatives from all
of the larger civic organizations and from each
of the city’s newspapers and radio stations.

Mr. Weir, who had spent several days braving
very inclement weather to study the progress
which had been made since his last visit, expressed
satisfaction with the general improvement. He
found that many of the suggestions which he had
made previously had been acted upon, including:
increased appropriations for the city’s parks de-
partment; replacement of the old, obsolete music
hall; the construction of a large stadium and mu-
nicipal auditorium.

Buffalo’s Museum of Science was praised by
Mr. Weir as being one of the finest in the country,
and be praised the development of the art gallery.
However, he warned his audience against apathy;
he predicted the institution of a thirty-hour work
week in the future and a consequent need for a
more scientific approach to recreation than in the
past. He said, “The time is coming when people
will have more free time on their hands than work
hours.”

Gordon Stephenson, Lever Professor of Civic
Design, University of Liverpool, came to Buffalo
to speak at the Civic Planning Week dinner. Mr.
Stephenson, who graduated from the University
of Liverpool, the Institute d’Urbanisme of the
University of Paris, and received a degree of Mas-
ter in City Planning at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, is in this country at the invitation

423

of the Commonwealth Fund to make a study of
graduate departments of city and regional plan-
ning. His record of accomplishments, and his
reputation as one of the world’s great planners,
drew an audience of association members, their
guests, and city and state officials which filled the
large Chinese Room of the hotel to capacity.

Mr. Stephenson confined his talk to a discussion
of the problems of city planning which confronted
postwar England. The effects of the bombing in
the last war gave a new importance to civic plan-
ning, he told his audience; municipal governments
were forced to take a very active part in this work
as the result of the drastic housing shortage. His
listeners were somewhat startled to learn that four
out of five postwar houses were constructed by the
government, although contracts for the work were
let to private builders.

Mr. Stephenson’s message outlined the provi-
sions of the New Towns Act passed by the British
government in 1946. A new concept of planning
lay behind this legislation. No longer would
densely populated cities continue to expand, but
new, smaller communities would mushroom into
existence throughout the countryside. The first of
these small towns was planned by Mr. Stephenson
himself. In the new towns, plans are being made
for more open space in the downtown areas. In
this way, more light and air will be available to
office workers; there will be adequate space for
parking. Thruways will make the central areas
easily accessible to those residents of outlying dis-
tricts; highways will run between cities and not
through them; industrial sites will be concentrated,
rather than scattered throughout the city.

Before and during the week, association mem-
bers spoke before all of the larger clubs, civic and
business groups, in order to acquaint their mem-

bers with the association’s aims and accomplish-
ments.

At the week’s end, Buffalo planners were count-
ing the objectives which had been attained. Pub—
licity through the media of newspapers and radio
had been several times greater than that given
projects of the association in comparable spaces
of time during the rest of the year. The essay
contest had served to awaken Buffalo’s youth to
its future responsibilities. New enthusiasm had
been generated among the more apathetic mem-
bers, and the city council had appointed a commit-
tee to study means of financing projects which

had long been recommended by the association.

Above all, Buffalonians were more cognizant of
the meaning of the Buffalo City Planning Associa—
tion’s slogan—“Stop panning—start planning!”

424

Bun B. Dyer

ON THE FIRST of Oc-
tober, Don B. Dyer
began his duties as As—
sistant to the Superin-
tendent in charge of the
Department of Municipal
Recreation of the Mil-
waukee Public Schools,
succeeding Miss Dorothy
Enderis who, for so many
years, has served in this position. Since his em-
ployment by the department in 1927, as Social
Center Director, Mr. Dyer has served successively
as Supervisor of Activities and. as General Field
Assistant in charge of maintenance. He is, there-
fore, well—qualihed for his new position.

 

Mr. 'Dyer graduated from Lawrence College,
after which he coached athletics in high school and
college and taught in a junior high school. During
this period he served as a part-time playground
director and social center worker in Kenosha, Wis-
consin, and attended the summer session of the
National Recreation School. After joining the
recreation staff in Milwaukee, he promoted and
developed a municipal chess program which has
gained international recognition.

His duties with the Milwaukee Recreation De-
partment have not prevented him from participat-
ing in varied outside activities. He has taught
recreation courses at Milwaukee State Teachers
College and at Marquette University, and is the
co-author of a book entitled “Liability in Public
Recreation,” to be published this year. From 1941
to 1945 he served as Secretary af the Wisconsin
Recreation Association. In May 1948 he was one
of the representatives of the public recreation field
who were invited to attend the conference at Jack-
son’s Mill, West Virginia, the purpose of which
was to develop an undergraduate recreation cur-
riculum for colleges and universities. Mr. Dyer
has given generously of his time in helping small
Wisconsin communities in developing recreation
programs; and in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, a
community of 1,500, he promoted and organized a
year-round recreation program that has received
wide attention.

Mr. Dyer’s many friends in the recreation move-
ment wish for him success in his new and impor-
tant position. '

RECREATION

Recreation

Ice Carnivals

FOR YOUR ICE carnival, plan speed races for both
sexes in three classes—junior, intermediate and
senior. The classes should be based on a height-
age classification. It is suggested that the speed
skating events be: 220 yards, 440 yards, one-half
mile, three-fourths mile, one mile, two mile, three
mile and live mile races. (Events over one'mile
should be limited to seniors.)

Other events suitable for an ice carnival are a
costume ball, fancy ligure skating, barrel jumping.
Skate softball is a novel event. All players must be
on skates, with ten players to a team. Use a four-
teen-sixteen inch softball, and play the game under
official softball rules. The bases and lines should
be marked in the ice with ink, or other dark color-
ing material.

If you plan to hold a sanctioned city, county or
state meet, be sure that you apply for, and secure,
a sanction from the Amateur Skating Association
before advertising it as a sanctioned meet.

Dart Games

THE USE OF dart games in recreation programs
has become very popular in industrial recrea-
tion, according to a recent meeting of members of
the Industrial Recreation Association. It was re—
ported that, in a large number of firms, dart games
are kept handy, right beside working machines,
ready for use at the noon hour. Chrysler Corpora-
tion, for instance, bought seventy—five dozen games
last year, to be used by the men in the shops.

There is a lot of fun in playing darts. Any num—
ber—men or women—can play, and you don’t have
to be a great athlete nor in the prime of life to
enjoy the game.

Popular sizes among dart games are the eighteen
by eighteen, twenty-four by twenty-four and twen-
ty-four by thirty-two—all double sided. The Offi—

DECEMBER 1948

 

cial Dartball League Game, forty-eight by forty-
eight, is ideal for team play in a recreation room.

Your Annual Report

IN MARTINSVILLE, VIRGINIA, this year, H. L.
Daughtry, Chairman of the Recreation Com—
mission, sent out a letter—along with the annual re-
port. It read as follows:

“Dear Fellow Citizen:

“Public recreation in Martinsville last year cost
us $1.38 each. With this amount, a new play-
ground was graded in the cotton mill district; five
grounds were provided with supervision for the
summer; a day camp was conducted in Church
Street Park; industrial recreation was expanded.
After-school sports for boys, a puppet theatre for
children, and many other services were provided
for a population of 18,000 people.

“One dollar thirty-eight cents doesn’t go very
far these days as you know from the grocery bill.
It will buy little over a pound of steak, or five
quarts of milk, nine loaves of bread, or about a
pound and a quarter of butter.

“But on the other hand, in Martinsville, last
year, one million dollars was Spent for hard liquor
-—-a form of negative and escape recreation. This
amounts to $73.94 per capita, or per person. The
city received $2.73 per capita for hard liquor sales,
or $49,200.13.

“Can you picture the achievements possible if
we, as a people, were willing to spend just a fourth
as much for recreation to enrich life in a whole—
some constructive manner?

“So as you read the third annual report of the
Recreation Commission, which is enclosed, be re-
minded of costs, but also be reminded of values!

“To you, and the many other good citizens who
have encouraged the growth of public recreation,
we extend a hearty thank you, and pledge our best
efforts in providing more worthwhile recreation
opportunities in the coming year.”

425

It is also the expression of a ter-
vent hope that the pirit of

Christmas may endure heyoncl

the holiday Season, and that
highly placed men of all nations

I

may render more than lip Service

to the Prince of Peace.

 

426 RECREATION

Katherine V. Fortinberry

Finding and keeping

CZ/OZI/u/Lleeté '

Mrs. F ortinberry, who has extraordinary success in work-
ing with volunteers in the popular Recreation Center in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, revealed some of her methods
to Congress delegates in the talk reproduced here.

UR CITY OF Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has a
0 population of 120,000 and we reach 10,000
of these people through our recreation program
each month. Most of these participants are young
adults between the ages of eighteen and twenty-
three years.

Because we have a real story to tell about our
volunteer activities in the Recreation Center at
115 St. Louis Street, formerly occupied by the
USO and, before that, by an old French market,
I brought along with me 1,100 copies of a bro-
chure, “The Story of Volunteers at the Recreation
Center in Baton Rogue.” It is a story told by the
volunteers themselves. You will notice that it is
published by the Volunteer Leaders Advisory Pro-
gram Council, which is made up of the heads of
our various program activities.

Before we, as recreation leaders, can enlist the
help of volunteers, we must have an abiding faith
in people. I was greatly impressed by the talk
Sunday night made by the Reverend Mr. Alex—
ander at the first session of the Congress, when
he emphasized the truism that we must love our
fellow man to want to serve him, and that through
our services in recreation—all over the world—
peace may be ours.

We must inspire these potential volunteers with
the feeling that there is a definite need for their
services and that, without them, the program could
not possibly be as rich in enjoyment as it would
be with their leadership. How could I plan and
carry out effectively five to seven different activ-
ities each evening if I were to work alone? Since
I am the only professional staff member at my
center, I must have real help to provide this recre-
ation for 10,000 young adults who look to us for
a better way of life each month.

One of the questions I have been asked to an-
swer here is “Can volunteers be recruited more
successfully on a neighborhood basis than on a city-

DECEMBER 1948

wide basis?” __I should like to ask you this ques—
tion: “Who is one’s neighbor P” If it is the person
who lives next door, I would say “No”; but if it
is the one with whom you work or with whom you
play, then I would say “It is good to enlist your
neighbor as a volunteer.”

Volunteers must be as carefully selected as if '
they were to receive pay for their services. To
my way of thinking, the recruiting of volunteers
must be done in such a fashion as to blend the
harmonious efforts of people who like to work
together rather than those of pe0ple who simply
live in the same physical neighborhood. This ques-
tion has been ably answered by one of my volun—
teers in “The Story of Volunteers” when he said,
“I like my volunteer services at the recreation
center, because there I mingle with right thinking
people—people who think as I do, that happiness
is gained in serving others, because that is the true
democratic way of life.”

Volunteers often help to train and orientate
others whom they may enlist from their own oflice
or some other type of work.” I have many very
good volunteers who took the training courses
under the direction of Mrs. Anne Livingston, of
the National Recreation Association, and they, in
turn, have assisted me in training others. I have
more than 300 volunteers with as many as 250 of
these volunteers working with me in some capacity
daily. My job is to supervise their activities and
to help them plan the programs for those activities
in which they are interested.

All publicity and radio spot announcements go
out from my desk and, in that way, I see that
everyone is given due credit for his or her con—
tributions to the over—all program and, at the same
time, that no favoritism is shown.

I have had great success enlisting volunteers
from thirteen business girls’ sororities, many of
whom serve as individual volunteers and, on occa-

427

sions when 1 need them, serve as a group.

To hold volunteers I would say that the first
essential is to be a good leader yourself. Be will-
ing to work side by side with your volunteers, with
the emphasis placed on the VISION, rather than on
the SUPER in supervision. Be willing to take sug—
gestions and constructive criticism with gracious-
ness and understanding.

Do not irritate volunteers with too many
“don’ts.” Place them in the front line and praise
them when they deserve it. Offer constructive cor-
rections when they have done something not in
keeping with the standards of the recreation ecnter,
and be fair and impartial in your judgments.

Do not show favoritism in giving prominent
space in your weekly bulletins and in your news-
paper publicity, telling of the activities of your vol-
unteers. One of the most effective means of volun-
teer recognition is to plan an annual party in their
honor, naming it “The Annual Volunteer Awards
Program and Reception.” Make the occasion the
most outstanding event of the year, carefully look-
ing after the details of program and seeking for
the perfection of decorations and all the things
which go to make for a successful affair. This
show of appreciation will make them swell with
pride when you introduce them as the chairmen
or workers in their particular activity.

Plan big things for volunteers to do. They are
not satisfied with small things—~—they should not
be allowed to drift—everything must be kept hum-
ming. Help them build respect; and command
respect for yourself. It is advisable to make sur-
veys at intervals to find out what they are think-
ing about and to see if they have some new ideas
to offer in the way of programming.

I have found it advantageous, for close coopera-
tion and understanding to organize the top leaders
in each activity into a council, which I call the
Volunteer Leaders Advisory Program Council.
This gives dignified emphasis to their part in the
program and, at the same time, provides a bul—
wark of strength behind the director.

It is well for the director of any recreation unit
to instill into the thinking of each volunteer the
fact that, to get the best results, there must be the
most harmonious relationships between the pro-
fessional worker and the volunteer, and that in
case misunderstanding should arise, the two must
sit down and talk things over.

It has been my experience that volunteers ac-
cept responsibility in almost every phase of recrea-
tion work and they not only find civic enjoyment
in performing these duties, but recreational relaxa-
tion as well. The volunteers in Baton Rouge are

428

loyal, faithful and ever ready to assist in plan—
ning and promoting a program of which we are
justly proud.

[Am a Volunteer . . .

“Being a volunteer for a worthy cause of com-
munity program is a privilege that brings in its
wake feelings of deep pride and satisfaction. I do
not feel that I am a volunteer—I am merely a
grateful citizen drawing abundant inspiration and
happiness for my opportunity to serve my commu-
nity.”—Rabbi Bernard Baskin, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana.

“Tops” in
Good Sport.
LEARN ABOUT

TRAMPOLINING
Founded by NISSEN—

Creator ot America's First

Standard TRAM POLI N E

A lively playground attraction for all ages.
Write for FREE LITERATURE.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

 

  

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
O
Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes
Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D I'AMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH. MINN

 

RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Standard for Grandstands, Tents and Other Places of
Outdoor Assembly. National Fire Protection Asso-
ciation, 60 Batterymarch Street, Boston 10, Massa—

chusetts. Price $.25. _ . _ .
Community Education in Action. American Assoma-

tion for Adult Education, 525 West 120 Street, New

York 27. Price $.50.

Journal of Health and Physical Education, June 1948
Hostelling in France, Betty Carlson.
Personal Water Safety, Johanna Putrin.
Apparatus Activities, W. K. Streit.

The Nation’s Schools, May 1948
Parents Build a Playground, William E. Sheehan.
Summer Activities Program for Younger Chil-

dren. John S. Benben.

California Schools, June 1948

Recreation Services in California Public School

Districts, Carson Conrad.
Beach and Pool, June 1948
Filter Systems of Swimming Pools.
National Municipal Review, July 1948
Redevelopment Without Plan, Ruth G. Weintraub
and Rosalind Tough. ~
The Nation’s Schools, July 1948
Gymnasium and Cafeteria Under One Roof,
Leonard A. Steger.
Beach and Pool, July 1948
Share the Funl—Games and Stunts InSpire “De-
sire to Swim,” Karl R. Schneck.
Richmond Lake Demonstrates Advantages of
“Level Purilication,” Pat Perkinson.

The Load that Breaks the Diving Board, H. M.
Naigles.

Authors in This Issue

MARGARET HICKEY— Public Affairs Editor,
Ladies’ Home Journal, is active in public affairs.
She attended the United Nations Conference in
San Francisco and worked with women of many
nations on the Human Rights section of the Char-
ter. Article on page 389.

R. WALTER CAM MACK—Superintendent of Rec—
reation in Mount Vernon, New York. Article
on page 395. .

FERN ALLEN SCHWANKL——Recreation Director
of Elizabeth Kenny Institute in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. Article on page 401.

A. F. WILEDEN—Rural Sociologist, University
of Wisconsin. Article on page 410.

MARY BARNUM BUSH HAUCK—Founder and
director of Dauphin County Folk Festival. Arti-
cle on page 418.

MARSHALL R. LAIRD—Former Superintendent
of Recreation in Scarsdale, New York; now Su-
perintendent of Recreation in Williamsport, Penn—
sylvania. Article on page 420.

KATHERINE V. FORTINEERRY———Director of Rec—
reation Center and Publicity, Recreation and Park
Commission, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Article on

Page 427-

DECEMBER 1948

Books Received

 

Best Religious Stories, edited by J. Edward Lanz.
Association Press, New York. $2.50. . '

Betty Loring, Illustrator, by Jessica Lyon. Julian
Messner, New York. $2.50.

Bird Hiking, by Leon A. Hausman. Rutgers Univer-
sity Press, New Brunswick, New Jersey. $2.00.

Circus Day, Farmer John’s, The Garden Gate, words
and music by Claire Harsha Upshur. Harold
Flammer, New York. $.40 each.

College Facilities for Physical Education, Health Edu-
cation, and Recreation, published by the College
Physical Education Association. Glenn Howard,
Queens College, Flushing, New York.

Community Organization for Recreation, by Gerald B.
Fitzgerald. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $4.00.

Creative Art Crafts, by Pedro de Lemos. The Davis
Press, Worcester, Massachusetts. $4.75.

Fun-Makers for Small Groups, by Edna Geister.
Harper and Brothers, New York. $1.75.

Industrial~Arts Program, The, by Louis V. Newkirk
and W'illiam H. Johnson. The Macmillan Com-
pany, New York.

Magic Chef Cooking. American Stove Company, St.
Louis, Missouri. $1.50.

Modern Swimming Pool Data and Design. The Re-
finite Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska. $2.50.
Music Americans Sing, by Harry Wilson, Joseph
Leeder and Edith White Gee. Silver Burdett

Company, New York. $1.32.

Pass That Puck! by Richard T. Flood. Houghton
Miffiin Company, Boston, Massachusetts. $2.50.

Plastic Craft, by Ernest DeWick and John H. Cooper.
The Macmillan Company, New York. $5.00.

Terry and Bunky Play Hockey, by Dick Fishel and
Ken Hay. G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York. $1.75.

These Things We Tried, by Jean and Jess Ogden.
Extension Division, University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville, Virginia. Paper binding, $1.50; cloth
binding, $3.00.

Walt Disney’s Treasure Chest, illustrated by the Walt

Disney (Studio. Simon and Schuster, Incorpor-
ated, New York. $1.00.

Eggggggg—gggggg—gggg

 Christmas 51.

 

Eggggggggggggggggg
429

A lively, reSponsive ball develops skillful players—adds to the thrills of the game. 1 v . The con-
struction of WEAVER Softball and Playball assures lively—responsive action. r r rThe WEAVER
Softball has a long fabric kapok center, is double yarn wound, with tough cover realistic in
appearance and processed to give soft. velvety feel. v r rThe WEAVER Playball‘ is the only
scholastic playball made, which is perfectly round. It contains 65% crude rubber with patented
fool-proof valve. Both "BEST by TEST” reasons for specifying WEAVER.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES CO. p.05$???15533$SMF?€1'H‘5'#§£5sESJlmmTM.

 * “incurs summit: *

a; 7.
-\. 0‘

 First Choice
for

Every Sport!

‘ 7 ” Available
In every field of iporf "n Profs:P I]. ~ I.  I ‘ ---"      

sinual. Semi-Pro and Ame {cur Basc- . . , , _ ,- __ ’1 " . _ ‘:
bat; and Soffball. in universum, ' ‘ . ., ‘   V  n ‘ ' ' l M A f h I at i C G O 0 d S
Colicgcs and High Schoolsa «n Mu- k . I
nucioa’ and Industrial Recreation. ' ’ '
MacGrcgor-Goldsmif’n Sports - ' W ‘ " 

I Equipment is recognized as a Hall- ‘
mark of quality and unwary-rug

woman“. a I  / a. , m 6 . mt.

r”: FINISI' I” I'd?! F1510 I

i.
_ D
a? ‘3  W I ' wan:Imrmhrmt: . ._ unuuucrunmo COMPANY - 51. tools 3. MO.
I/zd'l
. -,:-'  c manual-n; a, a

“I "In I! ll. alumni“!
a' ul'au' otguur I Inn-

’4 0H4O u

 

New Equipment

R. C. C. NIXON, Director of Recreation in
~ Newport News, Virginia, writes:

“I have been wanting to tell you about some
recreation facilities that were given to our city by
the Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock
Company—the chief industry of this community——
the largest such contribution being two modern
outdoor swimming pools, one for white citizens
and one for colored. Both pools are identical in
design and dimensions; they are 160 feet by sev-
enty-live feet and are equipped with the latest
lilteration and chlorination plants. There are three
diving boards on each side of the pools at the deep-
est point—one low, one one meter and one three
meters high. The pools each have two shallow
ends and slope toward the center, which has a
depth of nine feet. Underwater porthole-style
lights and overhead lighting add a great deal to the
after-dark appearance. The pools are raised and
terraced, with cement walks both inside and out-
side of the cyclone fencing enclosures. The Rec-
reation Division charges ten cents per person for
the use of the swimming pools and, even at this
low rate, the pools have been almost entirely self-
supporting because of the great number of people
who make use of them (an average of more than
1,500 per day). An outstanding event during our
two successful seasons of operation has been an
annual bathing beauty contest for teen-age girls,
at which a Miss Teen and Miss Junior Teen are
chosen at both the white and negro pools.

“These swimming pools are by no means.the
only recreation facilities which the shipyard has
given to our City Recreation Division. Others
include three sets of lights for softball and touch
football (two on white athletic fields and one on a
colored held), several backstops for softball and
baseball diamonds, goal posts for football fields
and, on numerous occasions, materials for repairs
to facilities and equipment at times when such
materials were extremely hard to get. The City of
Newport News and the surrounding communities
are fortunate, indeed, to have in their midst an
organization such as the Newport News Ship-
building and Drydock Company, which recognizes
the value of a recreation program and is willing to
support it with such splendid facilities as these.”

DECEMBER 1948

llr. C. B. Smith

 

HE LEADERS IN the National Recreation Asso-

ciation have learned with sorrow of the death
of Dr. C. B. Smith, who served for so many years
as head of the Extension Service of the United
States Department of Agriculture. A number of
the workers of the Association felt almost as if
they were on the staff of Dr. Smith in working on
rural recreation, and all spoke with the greatest
enthusiasm of what his leadership meant to our
country. He was a truly great government work-
er, and though he had been retired for some years,
his death is a loss to the country.

John Sharp

JOHN SHARP, WHO was superintendent of recrea-
tion and manager of the Whiting, Indiana, Com-
munity Center for the past twenty-three years, died
on the eighth of October. Through the years of his
service in the national recreation movement, he had
brought to his tasks deep devotion, and a realistic
understanding of the desires and needs of people
for recreation. r

Under Mr. Sharp’s guidance, the Whiting Com-
munity Center had developed for community use
such facilities as a large and a small gymnasium, a
full—sized indoor swimming pool, a handball court,
weightlifting room, locker rooms, auditorium and
several clubrooms. Carrying on this work will be
his successor, Joseph McDonald, formerly the Cen-
ter's athletic director for men’s and boys’ activities.

431

 

Christmas Carols—
Their Authors and Composers

Annotated by Alvina H. Mottinger. G. Schirmer,
New York. $1.00.

THIS IS A collection of forty-seven old and mod-
ern carols, with words, melodies, and piano
accompaniments. It includes most of the old time
favorites but also a good selection, less familiar,
by contemporary and recently living composers.
Supplementing the music, in the case of each of the
carols, is a half page or more of biographical notes
on the composer, and historical information.

The Golden Christmas Manger
Simon and Schuster, New York. $1.00.
THIS IS THE nicest idea we’ve seen in a long time
—Helen Sewell’s beautiful drawings of the
Christmas story all ready to cut out and fold, so that
they stand up, ready to be made into a creche; or
manger scene! There’s a stable, too, all ready for
the Babe, the Wise Men, the Shepherds, and the
Heavenly Host. And, to really please your favorite
child, a big Star, animals, birds, and flowers. All
the pictures are in Miss Sewell’s best style, rich in
color and delightful in design———thirty-tw0 of them!
If you still get excited over Christmas—and who
doesn’t—you’ll want a set for your own mantel or
Christmas table. But be sure to give the favorite
child a copy a week before December 25, so the
creche can be set up in good time!

Big Farmer Big and Little Farmer Little

By Kathryn and Byron Jackson, with pictures by
Feodor Rojankovsky. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $1.00.

THE Two FARMERS are beset by various prob-
lems: the biggest farmer in the world feeds his
cows and horses so much that they grow until the
clouds tickle their ears; Little Farmer Little, who
has the smallest farm in the world, is tired of sleep-
ing in a milkweed pod, and so seeks a new bed.
The full-color illustrations, which appear on every
page, are as amusing as the kangaroo cover. This
has a little book about the little farmer tucked into
the cover of the big book about the big farmer.

432

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AS AMENDED BY
THE ACTS OF MARCH 3, 1933, AND JULY 2, 1946 of
ll}ECREATlogN, published monthly at New York, N. Y., for Octo-
er 1, 194 .

STATE OF NEW YORK } SS
COUNTY OF NEW YORK '

Before me, a Notary Public, in and for the State and county
aforesaid, personally appeared ROSE J SCHWARTZ, who, having
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that she is
the Business Manager of RECREATION, and that the following is,
to the best of her knowledge and belief, a true statement of the
ownership, management (and if a daily, weekly, semiweekly or
triweekly newspaper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publi-
cation for the date shown in the above caption, required by the
act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the acts of March 3, 1933,
and July 2, 1946 (section 537, Posta1_Laws and Regulations),
printed on the reverse of this form, to Wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are: '

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.
1"IEgitor: Howard Braucher, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,

Managing Editor: Dorothy Donaldson, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, 1V. Y.

Business Manager: Rose J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
and addresses of stockholders owning or holding one percent or
more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporation, the
names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its-
name and address, as well as those of each individual member,
must be given.) . _

0N§tio§1al Recreation Assoc1ation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
1 . .

T. w. H. Adams, New York, N. Y.- F. Gregg Bemis, Boston,
Mass.; Edward C. Bench, Englewood,  J.; Mrs. Robert Woods
Bliss, Washin on D. C.; Howard Braucher, New York, N. Y.;
Mrs. Arthur . Cummer, Jacksonville, Fla.; William H. Davis,
New York, N. Y.; Harry P. Davison, New York, N. Y.; Robert
Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Robert Grant, 3rd, Jericho, L. ., N. Y.;
Austin E. Grifliths, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitch-
burg, Mass.; Mrs. Charles V. Hickox Michigan City Ind.; Mrs.
John D. ameson, Bell ort, L. I.,  Y.; Susan M. Lee, New
York, N. .; Otto T. allery, Philadelphia Pa.; Carl E. Milliken
Augusta, Me.; Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, W'oodbury, N. Y.; Paul
Moore, Jr. New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Si und Stern San Fran-
cisco, Calif; Grant Titsworth, Noroton, onn.; J. C. Walsh, New
York, N. Y.; Frederick M. Warburg, New York, N. Y.

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holdmg 1 percent or more "of total amount of
bonds), mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so
state.

None (non-profit organization).

4. That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the
owners, stockholders and security holders, if any, contain not
only the list of stockholders and security holders as the appear
upon the books of the company but also, in cases where t e stock-
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given;
also that the said tWo paragra hs contain statements embracin
alliant’s full knowledge and be ief as to the circumstances an
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock
and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner;
and this afliant has no reason to believe that any other person,
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in
the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this
publication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise to
paid subscribers during the tWelve months preceding the date-
shown above is (This information is required from daily, weekly,
semiweekly, and triweekly newspapers only.)

ROSE J. Scawanrz.

lgSytorn to and subscribed before me this 10th day of September,
4 .
MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANN.
Notary Public, Nassau County.

Nassau County Clerk’s No. 99, Certificate Filed in New York
County. Clerk’s No. 320. Register’s No. 27-DO. Commission ex-
pires March 30, 1950.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

December 1948 and January 1949

Columbia, Missouri
December 6-10

Andalusia, Alabama
January 10-14

Jacksonville, Alabama
January 17—21

Anniston, Alabama

January 24-28

Brewton, Alabama
January 31-February 4

Arlington, Virginia
December 7-9

Lynn, Massachusetts
January 10-14

Kansas City, Kansas
I)ecember 6-10

Charlotte, North Carolina
January 10—14

Statesville, North Carolina
January 17—21

Warren, Ohio
January 31-February 25

Fort Wayne, Indiana
November 29-December 10

Leo  Green, Superintendent of Recreation, Municipal
Building.

H. L. Taylor, County Superintendent of Schools.

Houston Cole, County Superintendent of Schools.

R. J. Fisher, County Superintendent of Schools.

0. -C. Weaver, County Superintendent of Schools.

Mrs. Ruth V. Phillips, Arlington County Recreation De-
partment, 3700 Lee Highway.

James Hurst, Secretary, Greater Lynn Church Athletic
Association, YMCA, 85 Market Street.

Edmun A. Ash, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall.

Miss Alice Suiter, Assistant Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, City Hall.

\Voodrow W. Dukes, Director of Recreation.

W. Robert Smalls, Executive Secretary, Warren Urban
League, 727 Park Avenue.

Martin M. Nading, Jr., Secretary and Recreation Direc-
tor, Department of Public Parks.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually
open to all who wish to attend. For details as to the location of the institute, contents of courses.
registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsors of the institutes as listed above.

 

“BELIEVE ITOR NOT.
HOPE HAS AN u   
INTELLIGENT IDEA!       i 

says CROSBY

CROSBY:

Folks, this is fantastic, but old Hope
has a great idea. He thinks every—
body ought to give U. S. Savings
BOnds for' Christmas presents! -

HOPE 3

Thanks for the kind words, s0n. But
no kidding, ladies and gentlemen, _ __ U
those _Bonds are sensational. They’re  - :   f '
apprOpriate for anyone on your list. "  ' “ 
On Christmas morning, nothing looks
better in a stocking—except maybe
Dorothy Lamour.

CROSBY:

Old Ski Nose is correct. And don’t

forget how easy it is to buy bonds—
you can get ’em at any bank or post

office.

HOPE: 'r'.
How about it, Mr. and Mrs. America?
This Christmas let’s all give U. S.

Savings Bonds!

U.S. SAVINGS BONDS

Contributed by this magazine in co—opera tion with the Magazine
Publishers of America as a public service.

  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
    

