 

' ECEATI

January I948
Price 35 Cam‘s

Plans for the

 

 

 
 
  

C 0 n! e h t,_s

January 1948‘-

   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
    

'Rlemories for Recreation, Local Skating Rink . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
by Howard Brancher. . . . . . . . . . . . . 457 Robelit K. Murray ' o _ t . . . . . . . _ o,  ' . 4

Man Does Not Livebv’Brea'd Alone, Recreation Suggestion Box 

by Dr- Dwayne Orton - - - - - -- - 459" (Helpful Hints). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
A Village Hires a Helper, .  _  At Headquarters . . . h ,-

by Russell A. Perry... . ..:..".'".'. . ..._.'~.-?.' . . 460 , Willard C. Sutherland. . . .  . L . . . . 49
Let’s Think in Terms of people, Safety in Winter Skiing. . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

by Dr. Harry Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 461

New Films Available . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466 Creative Activities

Expand the Use of Park Areas . . . . . . . . 4-67 Promoting An a Program,

An Interesting Experiment, ., by Florence Anderson . . . . . . . . .  . 46

by Ephraim Epstein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468 Creative Crafts Craze,

A Review of Swimming Pool Regulations 472 by 13”“ J- DUBOiB- ~ - - - - - - - - - -  - 47
min Champions, by Charles Bud]. . . . 477 Drama in the Recreation Program. .  . 47
R. Tait McKenzie Memorial . . . . . . . . . . 479 creauve Arts in Recreation ' ° ° ' ° ° '1' -' ' 4“
o . . _ Dramatics on a Shoestring, ‘
Skanng Clubs m High sch“)! and by George A. Lepper. . . . . . . . . .  . 48
College, by Roland C. Geist . . . . . . . . 482

Regular Features
PICTURE CREDITS—We DON’T MISS—The

are indebted to: the U. S. article on techniques World at Play . ' . ' _ _ ' . _ . . . o . . . . ' . o . 4
Forest Service for illustra- of stimulating an in- . .
tion on page 467; Tacoma, terest in the creative Authors 111 This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Washington, Recreation arts—“Promoting An Th P B , u ‘
Commission for that on Arts Program” by e “Btman rings - - - - - - - - o - - . . - .. 4

Recreation Institutes . .  . . . . . . . . . . . 4

page 471; Department of Florence Anderson—
Recreation, Passafic, New; based on eitpsrimeln- .
Jersey for that 0 mm! tation in S 0111 8 Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
painting, page 480; Ray andYWCA’s through- .

Atkeson, Photo-Art Studios out the country. Page Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . .
for that on page 483. 463.

 

New Publications . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreat'
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 315 Fourth Avenue. New Y
10, N. Y.: is on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $3 a year. Entered as sec
class matter June 12, 1929. at the Post Oliice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917. authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948, by the National Recreation Association. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. 8.4%.

VOLUME FORTY-ONE. NUMBER TEN

MARgf Q
Recreation

 

in January 1948 I

 

No READING, WRITING, RADIO, VISITORS.
No Work, no problems,

Just rest, quiet.

Memories come crowding in for recreation.

N

Memory of the long lane down to the woods—“where as a little child you went with the
dog and rounded up the cows—Hand sometimes missed one or two.

m o The fence corner with the rails across giving a triangular safety zone for petting
emorled the colts. .

The little creek under the bridge by the one room country school where you played
/or at recess.

The long Saturday with the men in the woods as they felled the great trees with
their axes, making up winter fire wood for the farm house.

leggy-eation Sugaring off in the spring, eating the maple sap cooled in the snow, with other
youngsters from the nearby farms.

The barn raising with all the men and their families together _in hilarious mood with quan-
tities and quantities of the best of food, eaten outdoors under the trees in the orchard.

Threshing days (before you were old enough to do much work!) with all the good fun and food.

Driving on a Sunday night along the country road in the pitch dark and listening to the
singing in the country homes.

The long tramps later in life—up the mountain sides—here the quantities of blueberries,
there the mountain lake a mile above sea level,-there the wonderful spring way up thou-
sands of feet near the top—where all was bare and wind-swept. Here you came out
upon the deer—there was that far view for miles around.

The twenty-five mile hike across country, the people met and talked with; the eighty.mile
hike along the ocean in Maine, fish eaten as soon as they were caught.

The long canoe trips, particularly paddling at night.

Rowing together with another long distance over rough seas.

Sailing at night in the moonlight.

Long hours by the drift wood fires with the sound of the ocean ever in your ears.

Places seen only once but remembered forever—like the spot in Norway where thirteen water-
falls could be counted pouring down from great heights—the changing lights on the
mountain lakes in Colorado nearly two miles high—

on
Long hours become shorter hours.

Long days pass more quickly.

When the memories of beauty and comradeship flood in.
Recreation is not only for the time.

Recreation is forever afterward.

Each person has his memory chest.
HOWARD BRAUCHER

 

 

457

g. _ yabzllvau,M-LW.G-yuwh- .‘

 

o reet the New Day

 

Excerpts from a pertinent address delivered
to the National Recreation Congress by Dr.

Dwayne Orton, Director of Education, Inter-
national Business Machines Corporation.

Man Hoes Not Live by Bread Alone

Y RELATIONSHIP WITH this recreation pro—
M gram is that of an educator who has gone
into industry, and into an industry which happens
to be engaged rather largely in the held of educa—
tion and recreation within the company.

My topic tonight is suggested by a sign which
some strikers carried in a parade: “We want
bread, but we want roses, too.” Now that was a
very signihcant sign. Man does not live by bread
alone. “W e want bread, but we want roses, too.”

A great industrialist started building a corpora-
tion on the principle “If you want to build a busi-
ness, you must hrst build men.” I come to you
tonight, as one engaged in the held of industrial
human relations, to say to you that this whole held
of recreation is extremely signihcant in the work
of the economic world. In its broader interpreta—
tion, it is not conhned to an occasional baseball or
softball team, but in its broader implications it is
one of the essential keys to the maintenance of our
way of life and economic order.

I say this out of a background of executive
activities in a company which has large recrea-
tional activities going on day and night with
twenty—nine'sports under organized direction and,
in addition, programs in music and recreation of
an intellectual and cultural type. .

If you are going to build a business—and I
should like to broaden it now: if you are going to
build a community, if you are going to build a
nation—“you must hrst build men.”

Now I should like to indicate a few of the sig-
nihcant situations and trends which I think give
a mandate of responsibility to a group such as
yours.

The hrst of these is one about which we hear a
great deal these days. We are beginning to see
the necessity for catching up on the lag which
exists between our tremendous advance technolog-

IANUARY 1948

ically and our failure adequately to advance in our
human relations.

In other words, we have moved so far in the
technological held that we have dazzled the eyes
and stirred the hearts of the people until they feel
that they have come into a new world. In the
compounding of the material of the earth and sea
and sky, we have done marvelous things, but we
have yet to discover the ways by which we may
learn to live together and make the greatest utiliza-
tion of those things.

I should like to quote here words from a mo-
tion picture, f‘Edison, the Man.” You may re-
member that Spencer Tracy played the part of
Edison. He had been interviewed by two high
school children and then had gone to a banquet
held in his honor. The great from near and far
rose and spoke about him, and when he came to
make his response, these were the words he used:
“To be told by the outstanding men of your gen-
eration that you have contributed a great deal to
human betterment is pleasant, very pleasant in-
deed. I would hardly be human if my heart did
not hll with such a major compliment, but some-
how I have not achieved the things I want. Earlier
this evening I talked with two school children.
Tomorrow the world will be theirs. It is a trou-
bled world, full of doubt and uncertainty. You say
we men of science have been helping the world.
Are those children or their children going to ap-
prove what we have done? Or, are they going to
discover too late that science was trusted too much
so it has turned into a monster whose' hnal tri-
umph was man’s own destruction? Some of us are
beginning to feel that danger, but it can be avoided.
I once had two dynamos. They needed regulating.
It was a problem in balance and adjustment. I feel
that the confusion of this world is very much the
same. The dynamo of man’s God-given ingenuity

"459

is running away with the dynamo of his equally
God-given humanity. I am too old to do much
more than say, ‘Put those dynamos in balance.
Make them work in harmony as their great Cre-
ator intended that they should. Then we need not
be afraid of tomorrow, for what man’s mind can
conceive, man’s character can control, and we may
go forward toward more light.’ ”

Need I labor the point, that the development of
men should be given priority by those engaged in
education and recreation? That which you are at-
tempting to do, whether it is in institutions, in
communities, in industry, in public schools or col-
leges, or wherever it is, is at the very core of the
greatest challenge of our day. We are not going
to stop mechanical, physical research. We are not
going to stand still or go back to the Middle Ages.
We are going to go forward with an accelerating
rate. But, with that progress, we must learn how
to build men, noble men.

Now, even more briefly, let me indicate that
there is taking place in our industrial experience——
and in other ’areas of our common life—the accep-
tance of a new type of responsibility. I refer to this
as the fourth dimension of business.

What are the ordinary dimensions of economic
activity? They are to produce goods and services,
to apply human labor to produce goods and ser-
vices, to employ capital that tools may be provided
in order that labor may work to produce goods
and purchases.

In an orthodox sense, these make up the cycle
of economic activity, and to these there is being
added a fourth dimension of business.

The fourth dimension of business is the assump—
tion of social responsibility. The applications of
that responsibility within the framework of our
economic order are legion. You are in the middle
of one of them, the development of men.

 

A Village Hires a Helper

Russell A. Perry

HE LITTLE FIELD HOUSE on the Village Green

in Wilmette, Illinois, has a new recreation

leader; and although his cost is extremely low, he

is doing a fine job with the “hard to interest”
groups. His name—Mr. Television.

The popularity of the youth programs in the

Field House has greatly increased since the advent .

of television. It has proved to be a popular addi-
tion to the activities of all age groups. In the
afternoon the Junior Jamboree, a Chicago tele-
vision pro'gram, entertains. the smaller children
who take part in after school pr0grams. Scout
troops who use the building enjoy television as a
part of their planned program.

The biggest demand is for the sports programs
scheduled evenings and Sunday afternoons. At the
time of this writing, the Chicago Bears and Cardi—
nals are preparing to play for the Western Divi-
sion professional football championship. All seats
have been sold in Wrigley Field, and it seems as
though half of the Village of Wilmette is planning
on seeing the game through the Field House tele-
vision set. Other sports programs, including box—
ing, wrestling, hockey and basketball, are proving
very attractive to the boys of high school age as
well as to returned veterans.

460

W hen the plan to purchase television equipment
was presented to the Recreation Board, it was
.pointed out that the high interest value of these
programs was drawing young men and women to
the local taverns, which were capitalizing commer-
cially on their value. The Recreation Board de-
sired to counteract this unhealthy situation, and so
the equipment was installed.

On the opening night, through word of mouth
publicity, a large group was in attendance at the
Field House and since that time, it has grown
steadily. Television distributors in this area are '
confident that in a reasonably short time these
programs will be available in most youth centers,
in many churches and in some schools. They feelH
despite the continued home installation, that group
use of television equipment will continue to be
popular because sporting events are more enjoy-
able when witnessed in a group than when viewed
alone. .

Several other North Shore communities are an-
ticipating the hiring of Mr. Television to assist
them in maintaining a modern recreation program.
When one considers that a new, strong leader
costs only slightly more than $400, is willing to
work under contract for one year without addi—
tional cost, the economy of a television purchase is
evident. One has only to witness a group of vigor-
ous, hard to handle boys sitting meekly before a
televised professional or college football game to
realize the interest value of this new form of
entertainment.

See photograph on page 484.

RECREATION

 

Let’s Think in Terms of People

Dr. Harry WilsonI Professor of Music Educa’rion.

I

Teachers CollegeI Columbia Universiiy. sums up

fhe music session of fhe Nafional Congress.

HERE WAS A great deal of enthusiasm, ques—
Ttioning and participation in discussion at the
meeting on “Music in the Recreation Program.”
It sounded to me just a little like a meeting of
school music teachers. The fact of the matter is,
music people and physical education people have
somewhat the same habit. Music people talk mu-
sic, music, music, and physical education people
talk sports, Sports, sports; whereas they all should
talk people, people, pe0ple.

Unless we realize that our recreational program
is going to be based on the needs of peOple, I don’t
have much hope for the various activities we in—
troduce to them.

In summarizing the meeting, therefore, I will
bring out the few points that were emphasized
regarding the interest and need of people in music.

People are really interested in music. Can you
imagine the world without music? Have you ever
thought of marriages without music? Have you
ever thought of schools, radios and so on without
music? When there is that much music going on
in the world, people must be interested, and there
is a definite need for them to be guided in music
available to them.

Music has a real value for you in the recreation
program. It has a unique value in the recreation
program. Music has a way of getting direct and
immediate emotional response from people that
you can’t reach any other way. It provides an
emotional release in these harrowing times of ours
that‘other activities do not provide in the same
way. It has a way of reaching down into the
inner recesses of young people, down into their
personalities and characters, even to their spirits

' and souls, if you please. It has a way of providing

recreation in the quieter moments—and believe
me, quieter moments are just as important as the
more active moments of our recreation program.

So we feel that there is a definite need. I think
that I can talk to you like this about the need of

‘ JANUARY 1948

music, because on Sunday afternoon, you do not
find me at home listening to the philharmonic con—
cert over the radio; I am out playing eighteen
holes of golf. Don’t ask my score! I am a little
like Al Jolson, who says, “I play two hours of golf
every morning, and when I get through with the
two holes, I go hpme.”

Another question that was brought up was:
What kinds of music should be used in a recrea—
tion program? A point that was touched upon, but,
not emphasized enough, was that we should not
think of school music, of recreational music, classi—
cal music, professional music; we should just think
of music. If we only think of music and the kind
of music that fits the particular need at that time,
then we don’t have to worry about classifying our
recreational music as being inferior. _We have to
realize that we are trying to put music across to
people in a way that will have some meaning to
them at that particular time. “Little Tom Tinker”
is all right in its place, but you should not stop
there. You must start with the music that the
people are interested in and lead them on to broaden
their knowledge and tastes. But, believe me, if you
don’t have some music in your recreation pro-
grams, they are 10psided and you had better take
stock of yourself. I

It is a good thing to be acquainted with the
music in the local schools, so that your recreation
program can supplement and substitute. During
discussion of this idea, it was reported that one
community program offers piano instruction in
classes because it is not made available in the
school.

A great deal of the meeting time was spent on
considering the scope of a'music program—in
other words, the music activities that should be
planned in the recreation. program. And again I

.am afraid we fall into the pitfall music school

teachers fall into, the over-emphasis on perform-
ance, on putting on a show of high, superior qual-
ity, and letting people come and listen to it. I

461

think we are going to have to think of people
again, and think of all the various educational
approaches to music, and to provide for activities
that take care of those various approaches to

music. The question of the listening approach to '

music was only touched upon. In one community
they do provide listening as part of the music
program, but it was the only place mentioned.
Probably there are others. I wonder how many
of you are taking care of listening programs?
Have you a phonograph on your playground? Do
you have other records besides jazz? Do you at-
tempt to have a listening program that is more or
less planned, that will interest your younger peo-
ple and your adults?

'Another program, of course, is singing. You
need community singing. It should move gradu-
ally and gradually to a higher level. Community
singing, ifoyou just have a series of community
sings put on for the fun of. it, will not lead far.
Community singing that is planned carefully will
lead to a community chorus that gives the people,
who are interested in furthering or developing the
musical quality of their singing, a real interest and
something to satisfy that need in their lives.

On the question of playing, the approach of
playing on instruments, do you stop with the toy
instruments? ‘I don't neglect the fact that the
harmonica and accordion and guitar are excellent
instruments and should be capitalized upon, but
do you stop. there? Do you try to have other
things, like a bugle corps and even a band com-
prised of your young people?

Do you attempt to do anything with creative
music? The creative approach is very stimulating.
Do you offer any kind of song program, song
writing contest, or any kind of a reward for any
kind of composition?

The last thing is the rhythmical approach. Many
people’s approach to music is through rhythm.
Capitalize on your folk dance, modern dancing or
ballet, or any kind of dance program that gets
people to respond to music rhythmically.

. The question of the budget was the third ques-
tion taken up: How much money should be de-
voted to music in the budget? It seemed to be the
consensus of opinion that the money required
depends on the situation. In some places there
should be more money spent for music than in
others. Again, you have to get back to what the
people are interested in and what they need.

In the discussion of leadership, I was quite
amazed at the number of people present who had
a school music background. Maybe that is good.
But the statement was made, and I think probably
it is true, that it will be a long time before very
many places can hire music specialists to carry on
a recreation program of music in their towns and
cities. If that is the case, then it is up to the recre-
ation leader's, you recreation leaders who may be
interested primarily in other things, to devote.
enough study to music to be able to realize the
value of it, the scope of it; so that you can enlist
the local talent that you have; and'so that you can
carry on a valuable recreation program in music.

 

A Project of the Mother’s Club

 

A story enthralls children of Durham, North Caro-
lina’s first recreation center for Negroes. Students
from North Carolina College supervise their play.

462

We thank thee. Grace before milk and crackers
during the recreation period for children under six,
hcld three days per week from ten to one o’clock.

RECREATION

Promoting an Arts Program*

 

CREATIVE ARTS ACTIVITIES are so important in
the development of a whole personality that
any organization interested in individual and group
development cannot afford to neglect them. Expe—
rience has shown that an arts program satisfies
some of the basic human needs for self-expression,
recognition and new adventure.

Organizations have a responsibilty to encourage
interest in creative expression and to make arts
activities available to everyone. This means infor-
mal crafts and hobby groups as well as formal and
scheduled art classes. _

Each community and organization will probably
differ in its abilty to find art resources and to
stimulate such interest. The imagination, ingenu-
ity and enthusiasm of professional and volunteer
leaders are, of course, the determinants.

Here are suggestions for promoting an arts in-
terest and developing an arts pr0gram in your
organization. Some of these are based on experi-

ences of USO clubs and local YWCA’s which have
pioneered in the arts.

l. Bring an Arts Activity to People

Don’t wait for people to come on Wednesday
I night to some backroom in your building for
ceramics. In order to interest those who have
never tried anything of the sort, and are not even
sure that they want to try, set up a long table in
the lobby or in some other
conspicuous spot in your
building. Cover the table with
newspapers and begin an im-
promptu class, where those
who are dropping into the
building can see how it’s
done and try it themselves.

IANUARY 1948

The suggestions in this article
are based on the experience of

USO clubs and local YWCA’s

throughout the country which
have pioneered in the arts.

 

FLORENCE ANDERSON

Invite the passers-by to sit down and make an
ash tray. It won’t be long before you’ll have a
number of recruits for your weekly ceramics group!

Although you will want to continue these infor-
mal classes which are open to “drop-ins” in the
lobby, you may need to find a room, as the inter-
est develops, where each participant can store his
equipment and keep unfinished work. Also, your

group soon may desire a work room with more
facilities. .

USO clubs had great success with a variety of
lobby arts and crafts. Some of the most popular
were: leathercraft, ceramics, painting, sketching
and shellcraft. It is important that such activities
seem easy and informal,'that enough tools and
materials are handy so that the beginner feels free
to try his skill. The cost for this informal work
should be so slight that it is not a deterrent to
anyone.

People may be introduced to an arts activity- at
a luncheon or supper table. Young matrons’
groups have cleared the luncheon table, have cov-
ered it with newspapers, brought out the copper
sheeting, the smelly liver of sulphur and the mod—
eling tools and have had the time of their lives
doing metalcraft. Between discussions of the des-
sert they have just enjoyed, and talk of the latest
reducing diet, they have created hand-tooled
copper pictures, book-ends
and bowls attractive enough
for any crafts exhibit.

Similarly, co-ed groups,
men’s or other women’s
groups can enjoy informal
arts activity around the sup-
per table or in social groups.

463

2. Have Exhibits and Demonstrations

Arrange an exhibit in your building and in the
downtown store windows and public library, fea-
turing thearts and crafts articles which could be
made by groups in your organization. “It’s Fun,
It’s Inexpensive and It’s Easy” might be the cap-
tion of one such exhibit, presenting the COSt and
estimated amount of time involved for each person.

Several arts and crafts groups were formed as
a result of art exhibits, craft displays and lively
“See—How—It’s-Done” demonstrations in an Ala-
bama USO. This was a cooperative undertaking
with the art department of Alabama College and
was held on a Sunday afternoon. A letter from the
club director described the success of the project:
“They showed in demonstrations how art can be
functional and interesting in our daily living, and
how painlessly the creative urge can take effect if
uninhibited! Oils, water colors, block printing and
clay kept over two hundred people
fascinated for hours!”

Sculpture groups of a YWCA
held annual exhibits in the art gal—
lery of a department store. These
exhibits not only gave the amateur
sculptors a feeling of accomplish-
ment, but were a source of satisfac—
tion to the organization and stimu-
lated others to try their hand with the clay and
plasticum. Similarly, other art students interested
in oils and water colors exhibit their paintings each

year.

Exhibit paintings, sculpture, handcrafts of local
-or nearby artists. Arrange exhibits of prints from
museums. Many tine inexpensive prints can be
purchased today from museums and art stores.
Buy them to have on hand for such exhibits.

Use the downtown store windows to display
your arts and crafts.

Show movies and film slides on the arts. These
are available from museums and from motion pic-
ture bureaus, such as the New York University
Film Library and the YMCA Motion Picture
Bureau. Film slides are also available and may be
shown in a Belloptican or Magic Lantern. Sched—
ule speakers on art appreciaton or on art tech-
niques in connection with the film slides. Call on
local resources for these—art teachers from the
schools, artists among your constituents or volun-
teers.

3. Find an Arts Leader Who Likes His Subiect and
Who Likes People

The leader is all important to an arts program.
it is not enough to know how to teach a person to

464

mg 3

\

model in clay. The good arts leader should under—
stand the people he is teaching,.see that there can
be additional values in art other than the acquiring
of a skill—important as that is.

Through your conversations with the leader,
help him to know what is meant by “starting
where people are”———at their point of interest; the
importance of a little encouragement with con-
structive rather than negative criticism; the need
that people have to see something completed; the
importance of enjoying the activity without being
too much of a perfectionist about it. The leader
must also be aware of the fact that some people
are living under tension due to home or job diffi-
culties, a tension which may be eased in their art
work.

Of course, as a group goes seriously into an arts
field such as painting, and becomes interested in
acquiring skill and in developing creative ability,
the teacher does not need the same
degree of sensitivity to those indi-
vidual needs.

4. Use Art in An Educational Program

Art can be helpful in promoting
appreciation and better understand-
ing of people of different religious,
racial and nationality backgrounds.
As a part of its USO program, the
National Jewish Welfare Board staff assembled
eight circulating exhibits of works of art by Jew-
ish artists. The subject matter was concerned with
both the familiar and unfamiliar aspects of Jewish
culture and served as an educational experience,
affording the onlooker a deeper insight and appre-
ciation of a religious background as well as of art.

. Related to these exhibits were films, dramatized
readings of stories, the playing of Jewish folk
music, folk dances, the serving of typical food and
a talk by a speaker to unify the program. Among
the painters and sculptors included were : Gropper,
Glicenstein, Chagall, Pann, Wachtel, Reiss and
Geller.

Other recommended exhibits are: A set of
twenty photogravures of work by the famous Ne-
gro sculptor, Richard Barthé, including a ten-by-
twelve—inch photogravure of the artist, available
from The Harmon Foundation at two dollars; re-
productions of a series of 'paintings entitled “Na-
tionalities in the United States” published by the
magazine, l/Voman’s Day.

In similar fashion, the original work of your own
groups in painting, block prints, sculpture and
other media may be used as part of any educa-
tional unit. Art tableaux are interesting and fun

RECREATION

 

l

l
l

for any arts group to undertake. It is not difficult
to make and gild a wooden picture frame, with
dark drapes in back or with a painted scene for
background and for the sides. The subject might
be appropriate to the Christmas scene, with a Ma-
donna or reproduction of a famous Nativity scene,
or might be appropriate to any theme. A success-
ful lighting effect can be obtained by use of a spot-
light or colbred lights wired inside the picture
frame.

Art speaks a universal language and artists
through the years have made their contribution to
the improvement of the social scene and human
relations.

5. Use Art at Holiday Times

What a tremendous help your amateur artists
and craftsmen can be in decorating your building
for holiday seasons and for other gala occasions!
They can paint murals on your windows, using
poster paints or Bon Ami soap, or they can paint
murals for your walls on brown wrapping paper.
They can cut beautiful block prints for announce—
ments, place cards or invitations. They can paint
a permanent mural for the Canteen, the Rumpus
Room, or even for the best room in your building.
They can make attractive Christmas tree and fire-
place decorations. Cut—out figures made with ply-
wood and paint, such as a Santa Claus or the
Three Wise Men, can be used for an attractive
Christmas scene in front or on top of your build-
ing! \ _.

They can do art work on mimeographed sheets
which will promote interest in such material.

They can select beautiful art prints for your
Christmas or other holiday exhibits, and help with
window displays in downtown stores.

6. Sponsor a Christmas Gift Shop

In connection with your arts and crafts pro-
gram, a group might open a Christmas or year-
round gift shop in which it would sell its own
work. A little income from creative work is stim-
ulating and helpful to the craftsman or artist.
Nearby craft leagues and local stores may help
you find a market for good handcraft.

7. Have Arts Activities Available to Groups as Part
of the Evening's Interest Group Program

In some YWCA’s, for instance, those attending
an evening club meeting have the opportunity to
participate in a variety of interest groups in addi-
tion to mass recreational and club activities. Sculp-
ture and handcraft groups have been particularly
popular in one of these. The groups were sched-

IANUARY 1948

uled at forty-five minute intervals. If she so de-
sired, a girl might remain for two periods.

The interest groups were planned by a council
of girls elected from clubs and several of the
groups. They decided to charge a small fee to
every girl who came, irrespective of the groups or
clubs she attended. This did not exceed one dollar
for a total of ten weeks. Out of this money, a large
proportion of the instructor’s fees and other group
expenses were paid.

One council sponsored fourteen interest groups
in one evening, including “Charm,” “Current
Events,” “Sculpture,” and “Recreational Gym.”
These met in forty-five minute periods, from seven
to nine o’clock, preliminary to various club and
other meetings. In the course of an evening, Mary
Jones might have roller—skated in the gym, started
a clay head of one of her friends, and taken part
in a panel discussion on the United Nations. She
might then have gone to her club meeting with its
varied activities. In addition, she could have joined

° an art class on some other night.

8. Take a Look at the Facilities in Your Building

Can your lobby or other main floor room be
used as an art gallery? That is, are there wall
spaces on which you can hang paintings for an
exhibit, and places for pottery and sculpture? Art
exhibits often have been arranged on large screens,
borrowed for the purpose when wall space was
not available.

On Saturday and Sunday afternoons in a USO
club, the painter or photographer whose exhibit
was being shown was present to answer questions
and to give suggestions to others.

Undoubtedly your building cannot have a studio
with skylight, but perhaps you can fix a room as
a Studio or Putter Shop, with adequate working
space for a group and with enough shelves and ’
cupboards to hold the unfinished work and sup-
plies. This room should have running water, since
many arts and crafts require this, and it should
be a room which can be “messed up” without caus-
ing the housekeeper or janitor to have a stroke.
If you have several rooms available, you can, of
course, accommodate more people and each' room
may be used for a number of activities.

9. Have Your Organization Help Finance Arts Ac-
tivities in Getting Them Started

The matter of budget is important in any educa-
tional, cultural program. People will pay a good
price for a dance or a movie, but sometimes have
to be shown the value of other programs before
they are willing to finance them. Organizations, at
first, need to subsidize certain educational and cul-

465

tural activities. It is asking too much of an artist,
dependent upon the arts for a living, to give volun-
teer service. Therefore at the start, make allow-
ance in your budget for some of your arts program.

l0. Have a Lively "Artanorner” on the Bulletin
Board

Post on the bulletin board the latest art news,
occasional art prints, photographs, invitations to
exhibits. If the display is colorful, lively and “eye
catching,” it will be an inducement to others to
join your groups.

ll. Publicize Your Arts Activities in the Newspa-
pers. on the Radio and in Posters Around Town

People are moreiinterested in reading and hear-
ing about arts and crafts than has been generally
believed. The unusual story always gets a hearing.
Describe some of the processes in your crafts work,

some of the things made, any exciting and new I

materials that you may be trying out. Feature an '-

Arts and Crafts Open House in your building with
“Try It Yourself” demonstrations for the novice.

l2. Buy Art Books and Magazines

Beginners in art find help and inspiration in
current magazines and books on the subject. Buy
some of these for your library, 'if you have one,
or for the use of your arts groups.

Art books are becoming more beautiful and
more plentiful each year. A series of monographs
on various artists are now available in bookstores.
Each one is illustrated with reproductions from
the artist’s work and sells for only one dollar.
Browse in your local bookstore, and invite your
organization’s finance committee to browse with
you!

 

*Reprinted from “Try It Yourself,” by Florence Anderson.
The Woman’s Press. $1.00.

 

New Films Available

CHILDREN IN TROUBLE, a ten minute sound mo—
tion picture produced by “March of Time,” is
about juvenile delinquency, its causes and preven—
tion. A New York State Youth Commission film.
it was entered in the “Film of the World Festi—
val” sponsored by the Chicago Film Council and
was selected as one of the world’s six outstanding
sponsored films. Reports from several local com-
munities indicate that the showing of “Children in
Trouble” has stimulated coordinated action with
respect to children’s problems.

This 16 mm. film is now available free of charge
to service clubs, parent-teacher groups and other
interested agencies. Write to New York State

Youth Commission, 30 Lodge Street, Albany,
New York.

MAKE WAY FOR YOUTH, a new twenty minute
sound film sponsored by the National Social Wel-
fare Assembly, is the story of the birth of a youth
council. From it one gathers that racial, religious
and group hatred between young people can be up—
rooted and something better planted; that young—
sters and adults can enjoy working together; and
that a community that does something for its
young people, does something for itself. It may be

466

ordered through Association Films, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York 17, distributors for the
Y.M.C.A. Charges: Daily $3.50; weekly $10.00;
two weeks $15.00. Purchase price $60.00.

PLAYTOWN, U.S.A. is a twenty-five minute
color, 16 mm. sound motion picture showing how
a community can organize an all-age, year-round
recreation program. This can be a most effective
aid in stimulating the initiation and expression of
community recreation programs. Public officials
and members of civic and social organizations
should see this film. Available from Association
Films (address as above) for a $1.50 service
charge.

$1000.00 FOR RECREATION, a twelve minute
sound color film, can be valuable for impressing
community-sponsor groups with the fact that rec-
reation is a basic human need and is as much a
public reSponsibility as education, health and sani—
tation. This film is a dramatic production in which
Chicago’s noted Director of Recreation, V. K.
Brown, Offers sound advice On how service club
and other community organizations can inves
wisely in a complete recreation program for their
communities.

RECREATIO

 

Expand the Use
of Park Areas

“ XPAND THE USE of park areas,” was the plea

E of an address given by G. M. Phelan, Di-
rector of Recreation of Kenosha, Wisconsin, to the
Wisconsin Park and Recreation Society in Mil—
waukee at its annual meeting in 1947.

“It is the Park Department’s responsibilty to
provide and maintain the various park facilities,”
stated Mr. Phelan, “but it is the responsibility of
the Recreation Department to see that those areas
are used to capacity wherever possible. For after
all, the only justification for park areas is that they
be used by the people who are paying to own and
maintain them.

' “There was a time within the memory of most
of us when park areas were looked upon merely
as beauty spots or rest areas. It was considered
very inconsiderate of anybody to step off of the
beaten path disregarding the signs of ‘Keep Off
the Grass.’ These park areas in the early days
were usually selected because they were not much
use for anything else. Composed of rugged ter—
rain, they were rather difiicult to make over into
practical, usable areas.

“Municipalities gradually began to recognize
that parks were public property, belonged to the
residents of the city and should be prepared to
meet the needs of these individuals. Playgrounds
were established, apparatus purchased and in-
stalled, ball diamonds were municipally constructed
and maintained, tennis courts were built, bathing
beaches were added to the list, and so on.

“At the present time, we find that these devel-
opments exist in most of the cities in the midwest
area. However, maximum use is not being“ ob-
tained from many. For instance, those fields, courts
and the like should be lighted for evening play.
This is particularly true of our softball fields and
tennis courts, our horseshoe pits, our skating areas,
and our municipal playgrounds. Even after this

has been done, parks still may not be used to their
capacity.

“More provisions for winter sports can help us
attain this goal. Small ski slides can be built out
of ground rather than super structures, with take

'. JANUARY 1948

off of four, five or ten feet. Provisions should be
made for coasting, tobogganing. Portable 'shelter
houses for warming should be 'placed close by.”

After listing other possibilities, Mr. Phelan went ~
on to say that interpretation of the use of parks for
nature activities can be presented by children’s pro-
grams on the summer playgrounds. “You will find
that one advantageous plan is to teach it through
dramatic situations. Try having one child take the
part of the oak tree, another the shrubs, another
the flowers, another the grass, another the birds,
and the like. Have each prepare a list of his values
to present at a court hearing presided over by a
character known as Mother Nature. Mother Na-
ture’s final decision is that all together they make
up the park area. It takes the combination of all‘
of them to add to its beauty and usability. We
find that this also helps promote a higher regard
for the areas, and vandalism is materially reduced.

“At the present time, in many cities, older men
are being retired from industry at the ages of sixty
to sixty-fiVe. This creates a new problem as far
as the leisure time of these men is concerned. We
find them hanging around public buildings, sitting
on park benches in park‘ areas. Effort should be
made to get these individuals into some form of
activity. It should be possible to organize them
in the various park areas into clubs where they
would elect their own officers to conduct the vari-
ous forms of tournaments or competitive play that
might be established. These groupslmight use the
playground shelter houses for winter headquarters.
We all have, or soon will have, this problem fac-
ing us, and some solution should be attempted.

“Let’s expand the use of our parks!”

 

More provision for winter sports should be made.
Here a bridge is used to eliminate the danger of
passing in front of the toboggan slide.

467

An Interesting Experiment

Ephraim Epstein

THE PROBLEM OF providing children with sound
picture entertainment, geared to their levels of
(intelligence and appreciation, has faced the film
makers practically since the first flicker appeared
on a silver screen. For various reasons, Holly-
wood has done little to cope with the situation as
far as producing pictures aimed primarily at chil-
dren is concerned (there are exceptions, of course,
with some of the Walt Disney films as outstanding
examples) and it has been left to the exhibitors,
the men who operate the country’s motion picture
houses, to seek a solution.

One of New York’s leading independent thea-
tre chains, Century Theatres, recently came up
with a plan that goes a long way toward assuring
youngsters of carefully selected films, and in addi—
tion, stage entertainment.

The plan goes under the name of “Century’s
SAT—R-DAY CAMPS” and at present is in oper-
ation at six of the company’s thirty—seven theatres
—three in Brooklyn and three in Long Island.

Five of the Camps meet every Saturday after-
noon, from noon until five pm. The sixth meets
frdm nine to twelve—thirty in the morning to ac-
commodate those children who, for one reason or
another, cannot attend the afternoon performances.
A special screening committee, with the help of
the United Parents Association and the National
Board of Review, previews all films including
features, short subjects, cartoons and newsreels,
eliminating those which are deemed inappropriate
for youngsters. The “inappropriate” label is as—
signed to any film which is objectionable even in
part.

However, approved movies make up only one
portion of the program. The balance is devoted to
planned “camp” activities, including such events
as sack races, potato races, balloon-blowing con-
tests, cracker-eating contests, quizzes, spelling
bees, “musical chairs” and similar games. As an
added fillip there are occasional professional stage

468

A commercial firm takes a noteworthy step
toward playing an important role in commu-
nity life, and presents interesting possibilities
in the realm of entertainment for children.

acts chosen for their appeal to the moppets—dog
acts, magicians, circuses, Punch and Judy and the
like. ‘

All of the “live” performances are under the
supervision of a Camp Counselor, who is an ac-
credited teacher in New York’s public school
system.

At closing time, all unescorted children must
leave the theatres. This rule is enforced so that
the youngsters won’t be exposed to the regular
shows, which begin ten minutes later, and which
often are meant only for adult consumption. Es—
corted children, of course, may or may not remain
according to the decision of the adult accompany-
ing them.

The entire SAT—R—DAY CAMP project is a
product of the progressive thinking of Century
vice-president Fred J. Schwartz, who, with his
general theatre manager  R. Springer, nursed it
into operation despite objections from some of his
advisors who felt the program was doomed to
financial failure because of the almost complete
loss of adult admissions.

It was Mr. Schwartz’s contention, however, that
the SAT-R-DAY CAMPS would prove of such
great Value to the communities in which they
would operate that parents, parent—teacher groups,
civic clubs and other organizations interested in
cultivating suitable entertainment for children
would lend enough support to the program to
enable it to pay for itself.

It is still too early to determine whether or not
Mr. Schwartz’s contention will hold water. Thus
far, the increased costs at the SAT—R-DAY
CA'MP theatres plus the fact that Century has
maintained its regular Saturday admission scale
of twenty-five cents have meant that the project is
operating in the red, despite a sizable increase
over normal kiddie attendance.

Cost of admission loomed large in Mr. Schwartz’s
thinking for he wanted the Camps to be avail-

RECREATION

 

able to a wide community audience. However,
should the program continue to operate at a loss,
it may be necessary to boost admission prices to
meet costs, but still attempting to keep them with-
in the reach of all.

In his capacity as Century vice-president, Mr.
Schwartz constantly has stressed the fact that
motion picture theatres are an integral part of the
communities in which they are located, and that
theatre managers should strive to play an impor—
tant role in community life.

Earlier this year he gave a practical demonstra-
tion of practicing what he preached when he con—
tributed the entire facilities of a Century Theatre
in Brooklyn for use in a visual education experi—
ment conducted by the New York City Board of
Education. Century assumed all costs of the ex—

periment and won high praise from city officials
for its efforts.

The SAT—R—DAY CAMPS got under way Oc-
tober 18 with 6500 children in attendance at the
live theatres. New York City Commissioner of
Welfare Benjamin Fielding ofiicially launched the
program stating, “The SAT-R-DAY CAMPS
initiated by Century Theatres display the vision

and imagination necessary to cope with the chal— -

lenge of the basic entertainment needs of children.”

Typical, perhaps, of all the Camp programs
was a recent performance at Century’s Floral
Theatre in Floral Park, Long Island.

It opened with the showing of the film, “Henry
Aldrich, Boy Scout,” which won noisy approval
from the audience of children. Two color cartoons
followed with a final screen presentation of a
western, “Galloping Thunder.”

The stage activities began with a color guard
composed of six Boy Scouts and four Girl Scouts
who marched down the center aisle to the stage
where they were greeted by the camp counselor,
Miss Hazel Abraham. She led the pledge to the
flag, the singing of the national anthem, and in
honor of Armistice Day which had recently passed,
had a youngster blow taps while the audience
stood in silence for two minutes.

She then called for the camp sign (a wink of
the eye) and the camp yell which thundered
through the auditorium. This was followed by a
community sing during which the youngsters ren—
dered “Comin’ Round the Mountain,” complete
with sound effects.

During the program, Miss Abraham continually
tossed out questions to the children (whO‘was the
first president ?—who invented the wireless? etc.)
and dr0pped a nickel into a “jackpot” for each
correct answer.

JANUARY 1948

 

A great part of the program is devoted to planned

“camp” activities supervised by an accredited coun-

selor. Special screening committee approves movies.

The first contest called for two blindfolded girls
to don six items of wearing apparel which were
placed before them on stage. Their clumsiness in
doing this and their appearance after it had been
done evoked quite a bit of audience response. Each
girl was given a prize before she left the stage.

Another community sing came next and then
another contest for which eight children were
called to the stage. Teamed in boy—girl pairs they
were required to walk across the stage holding a
ping pong ball between their foreheads. The suc—
cessful pairs were awarded prizes.

The next activity was supposed to have been a
harmonica playing contest, but since there was
only one entrant he was automatically declared the
winner after he had played several songs.

A “mama calling” contest closed the audience
participation portion of the program. Six children
on stage were asked to yell “mama,” and the
winner, the one who yelled the loudest, was se—
lected 'by audience applause.

The “jackpot” money was then awarded to the
eleventh youngster who bought a ticket at the box-
oflice. This, of course, was prearranged although
the lad did not know why his name was taken until
he received the money.

A typical camp song for the opening of stage
activities is illustrated by the following used at the
Sunnyside Theatre in Woodside, Long Island.

(Tune—Ohio State University’s victory song)

469

SAT-R-DAY CAMP WELCOME SONG

We welcome you to SAT-R-DAY CAMP;
\Ve’re mighty glad you’re here,

W e’ll set the air re-ver-ber-at-ing

With a mighty cheer.

\Ve’ll sing you in—-—-

VVe’ll sing you out——-

For you, we’ll raise a mighty shout.

Hail, hail, the gang’s allihere,

And you’re welcome to Century’s—-—

Sunnyside
SAT-R—DAY CA M P.

Although the Floral Park and Freeport Thea-
tres can select children for the contests directly
from the audience, the Brooklyn houses are pre-
vented by law from doing this. They must obtain
a permit from the mayor’s office in order to be
able to entertain children on stage. So, a some—
what involved, but necessary procedure has been
worked out.

As each child enters one of the Brooklyn thea-
tres, he may ask for a card which will permit him
to appear on stage at some future date. This card
must be signed by his parent or guardian and re-
turned to the theatre. The theatre manager, in
collaboration with the camp counselor, selects chil-
dren for the contests (according to their age and
sex) and takes their cards, which indicate a par-
ticular contest, to the. office of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Before passing
on the applications, the Society checks to see that
proper safety and health conditions are maintained
at the theatre, that the children won’t be exploited
in any way and that there is nothing harmful in
the performance.

Its approval is sent to the mayor who acts
upon the recommendation by issuing a license for
each child. When these permits are received at
the theatre, the children concerned are sent post
cards notifying them that they may participate in
activities on stage the following week.

The Sunnyside Theatre Operates similarly.

This procedure must be followed every week.
However, negotiations are under way to have the
Society give blanket approval of the SAT-R-DAY
CAMP theatres as satisfactory places for young-
sters to appear on stage.

The counselors at the live SAT—R-DAY
CAM PS all come under the supervision of a “head
counselor,” Ephraim Epstein who, in turn, works

under Century’s advertising and publicity director,
Edward Schreiber.

470

A former high school teacher in New Jersey,
holding a master’s degree from New York Uni-
versity, Mr. Epstein is responsible for coordinat-
ing the activities at the Camp theatres. Once a
week he meets with his five counselors to work out
the program for the following Saturday, leaving
much to their discretion but suggesting an item
here or eliminating one there.

A study is made of the audience response to the
various components of the previous week’s per-
formances, a procedure that enables the counselor
group to determine, in general, what the young-
sters’ likes and dislikes are.

It has been found, as there was good reason to
suppose, that kids most enjoy yelling. Animal acts
on stage seem to rank next in popularity. Contests
must be short or the children lose interest; and
contests that have -a “slapstick” element (balloon-
blowing, pie-eating, etc.) appear to get the great-
est reSponse.

As for screen entertainment, westerns evoke
shouts of encouragement for the forces of law and
order and hisses for the villains. However, serious
and educational films such as “The Story of Alex-
ander Graham Bell” and “The Young Mr. Lin-
'coln” also are well received. Cartoons, of course,

always go over big.

Approval of the SAT-R-DAY CA'MPS pro-
gram has come from civic, church (all faiths) and
educational leaders including New York City Su-
perintendent of Schools William Jansen who

wrote :

“Your program of SAT-R-DAY CAMPS has
many promising features. I like particularly the
fact that the entertainment program will be ap-
proved in advance by a special screening commit-
tee. I trust that representative parents will volun-
teer to assist in the screening.

“The fact that the stage activities will be super—
vised by an accredited camp counselor should
make for happy, wholesome entertainment. Good
luck on your venture.”

Although still in the experimental stage, the
SAT-R-DAY CAMPS have proved themselves
an excellent medium through which to present
carefully planned children’s programs high in en-
tertainment value. It is still too early to predict
the future of the Camps, but if conditions war-
rant and support is indicated, there is every likeli-
hood that their operations will be extended to
others of Century’s thirty-seven theatres.

In conjunction with the SAT-R-DAY CAMPS,
Century sponsors a half hour radio program, “The
Children’s Theatre,” heard every Sunday over
W NEW, a local New York station.

RECREATION

 

CREA TIVE CRAFTS ' CRAZE

David J. DuBois

I WHEN A COMMUNITY recreation program

serves hundreds of thousands of youngsters
and adults every year on the playground and in
the evening centers, an attendance of two hundred
and fifty—eight at a craft class seems like small
peanuts indeed. But when the Director of Tacoma,
\Vashington’s South Tacoma Community Center
walked into the office of Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, Tom Lantz, with the figures on this year’s
registration, 'eyes popped, mouths fell open, and
business came to a momentary standstill.

For the past two years this day craft class at
South Tacoma Community Center had attracted
around forty housewives, mothers and grandmoth-
ers to a series of weekly classes in textile painting,
leatherwork, art metal, basketry, and holiday deco-
rations. The women came at ten in the morning
and stayed until two in the afternoon. They
brought their lunches and drank coffee or cokes
available at the Center’s soda fountain. Instruction
was provided by local specialists in each of the
crafts. A slight registration fee was charged.

As the registration date rolled around again this
year, a small increase was anticipated. The class
had functioned smoothly for two years ; the women
had their own governing committee, “The Craft
Guild”; the work turned out had been consistently
of a high quality. In a number of Ways the news
got around that women could have fun and real
pleasure making craft objects at the cost of only
the raw materials.

Finely painted handkerchiefs, wooden serving
sets, and artistically tooled leather wallets and
purses created by the women of this group were
placed on display at the Western Washington
State Fair this fall. Thousands of people from
Western Washington saw and admired the work.

The backyard grapevine also spread news of the
women who had made ample Christmas spending
money from skills learned at the craft sessions.

l JANUARY 1948

 
    
 
 
 
 

When the registration of a community
center craft class jumped from forty to
two hundred and fifty-eight practically
overnight, eyes popped and business
came to a momentary standstill . . ..

  

i“

Newspaper stories, posters, and slides at the
neighborhood movie houses announced the begin—
ning of the present series of classes. The combina-
tion of all of these factors gave reasonable promise
that registration might double or possibly triple.
But no one-——-from the Superintendent to the Su-
pervisor of Centers, to the Director herself-—
expected a jump from forty to two hundred and
fifty-eight.

The registration figure itself is no indication of
the real demand for crafts for housewives since
our facilities cannot accommodate more than this
number at one time. Every corner of the building
is being utilized to provide instruction and wOrk
space. So many telephone calls and personal in-
quiries from additional interested women have
been received, it may be necessary to hold the next
four month series of crafts twice weekly in order
that as many as four hundred and fifty women can
have an opportunity to participate. _

Credit for the phenomenal growth of this craft
program must go to the leaders at the South T a-
coma Community Center for the development of
mass instruction techniques. So capable has been
the instruction that, even with over two hundred
women working elbow to elbow, the quality of
.their craft work has been as good as that of the
previous groups of forty.

The women are placed in groups of ten around
work tables. Each group has a “Table Leader”
who was selected before the first session because
of her past experience in crafts. These Table.
Leaders meet with the instructor several days be-
fore the regular craft session. At that time they
are thoroughly briefed on the steps to be followed
and the typical questions to anticipate from the
women at their table.

The instructor demonstrates each step from a
work table placed in front of the room on an ele—
vated platform. The Center Director or the Presi—

471

dent of the Craft Guild explains the procedure and
technique at the same time over a public address
system. Then as the groups follow the instructions
at their own tables, their leaders check on their
progress, offer assistance and advice.

Confusion has been avoided by breaking down
each operation into the simplest steps. So success-
ful has been this technique of instruction that at
the recent series of lessons on pottery, half of the
instructor’s time was devoted to individual assis-
tance and advice on the project in hand.

The success of this craft group is especially
noteworthy because of the absence of any expen-
sive tools or equipment. In every case improvision
has been the watchword. Old phonograph records
and discarded linoleum were used during the pot-
tery periods. Empty tin-cans, scraps of cloth and
assorted tools from the family repair kit have been
put to use. Big paste board cartons collect what
to some people is junk, but to the women of the
craft classes is valuable material for the creation
of exquisitely designed craft objects.

The Tacoma Recreation Commission and the
Metropolitan Park Board, co-sponsors of the
Community Center, and all of the recreation per-
sonnel involved in the supervision and administra-

A Review

of

tion of the crafts program are justifiably proud of
the results. Not only has the growth been beyond :
all expectations and the quality of work excellent,
but joy and pleasure for the participants, and a
real feeling of neighborhood spirit in the commu-
nity~ have been definite results.

 

In a number of ways news got around that women
could have fun making craft objects for little cost.

Swimming P00] Regulationr

APOOL SOON SINKS to the level of its least desir-
able patron. It is therefore desirable that
personal regulations .regarding admission, shower,
conduct, etc., of patrons be prominently posted in
the dressing room and in the pool area.

The State of Illinois Department of Public
Health, for example, advises adherence to the fol-
lowing rules:

I. Admission to the pool is refused to all per—
sons having any venereal disease, contagious dis-
ease, infectious condition such as colds, ringworm,
fevers, foot infections, skin lesions, carbuncles,
pimples, inflamed eyes, ear discharges, or‘ any
other condition which has the appearance of being
infectious. Persons with excessive sunburn, abra-

.472

sions which have not healed, corn plasters, bunion
pads, adhesive tape, rubber bandages, or other
bandages of any kind will not be admitted.

2. No food, drink, gum or tobacco will be al-
lowed in the pool area.

3. All persons will be required to take a shower
in the nude with soap and water before being al-
lowed in the pool area.

4. Bathers who leave the pool area for any rea-
son are required to shower before.returning to
the pool. .

5. Women and girls are required to wear caps
while in the pool.

6. All persons shall report to the instructor or '
attendant after taking their shower, before enter-

RECREATION '

mg the water, and shall be subject to any other
rules and regulations which the pool management
may deem necessary for the good and safety of all.

7. Personal conduct in the pool and bathhouse
must be such that the safety of self and others is
not jeopardized.

8. People in street shoes, and other spectators,
are not allowed in the pool area.

9. Unnecessary expectoration, spouting of water,
Iroughness, rowdyism, etc., will not be permitted.
I 10. Whenever additional rules are deemed ad-
lvisable for the proper conduct of this pool and the
protection of the health and safety of its patrons,
[the management is authorized to issue and put into
:Ieffect same, either printed or verbal.

 

Swimmer Inspection

I A systematic effort should be made to inspect
all patrons, and exclude those showing
'syniptoms of any infectious condition.

Personnel should show no hesitancy in
requiring such persons to leave the pool.

IT he reason for their exclusion should be

fully explained to them.

A skin rash could be caused by syphilis
in its most contagious stage, with the pos-

‘sibility of transmitting the disease through
'common use of a suit or towel.

Any criticism of strict enforcement of
sanitary regulations will soon turn to a compli-
mentary reaction from the majority of patrons.

Inspection may be carried on by all personnel
with whom the swimmer comes in contact: cashier,
hecking attendant, shower attendant, and life-
guards. The shower attendant’s inSpection is the
most important, and this should be assigned as a
specific duty.

Some outdoor pools have employed medical stu-
dents, during their summer vacations, as shower
attendants and inspectors.

Bather Cleanup

Shower Room for BATHS,‘ Pool for S W IM-
MING.

This slogan, if displayed and enforced in the
bathhouse, helps prevent the pool from becoming
a large public bathtub. Many pool patrons are
blissfully unaware of the need for thorough cleans—
ing of their bodies before enjoying a swim. They
feel that since they are going into the pool any
way: “Why take two baths ?”

Tactful enforcement of proper bather cleanup
can be turned to good use in pool promotion.
Swimmers soon learn to appreciate and patronize
Ehose pools at which definite, visible steps are

aken to safeguard their health.

JANUARY 1948

To be effective, a bath must be taken in the
nude. Those parts of the body covered by a swim-
ming suit need cleansing the most.

Hot-water showers and soap are absolutely nec-
essary. An adequate supply of hot water, with
automatic temperature-regulating valves set for
ninety-five degrees Fahrenheit, should be provided.
Shower heads and valves require weekly inspection
and maintenance.

Solid soap has generally been found unsatisfac-
tory. It promotes slipping on iioors. Pranksters
often take a cake of soap into the pool. Dispensers
of liquid soap, hung on the shower-room wall, ap-
pear to be the ideal solution. Make sure soap dis-
pensers are kept full and in good operating order.

It is not sufficient merely to provide adequate
bathing facilities and a few signs to obtain proper
swimmer preparation. One or more atten-
dants should be stationed in each shower
area (men’s and women’s) to enforce the
regulation, and also to inspect each per-
son desiring to enter the pool area. This
inspection should include looking for in-
fectious conditions, whether or not the
entire body is clean (good indices of this
“"" are the hair, under the arms, and in back

of the knees and ankles), and whether all
the soap has been rinsed off.

To summarize: ENFORCE NUDE BATHS,
USING HOT WATER AND SOAP.

Suit Disinfection

From the hygienic standpoint, nude swimming
by segregated groups, requiring rubber caps for
persons with long hair, is the ideal condition. The
trend is more and more in this direction at insti-
tution indoor pools, and is to be encouraged. This
is not feasible at most outdoor pools.

When suits are rented by the pool management,
they should be laundered after each use. Satis-
factory disinfection is obtained by using hot water
and soap, followed by rinsing, drying, and ironing,
or by other heat treatment.

When the management allows swimmers to use .
their own suits at the pool, those suits should be
properly disinfected before being worn.

One approved method ‘of disinfection is by soak-
ing the suit for five minutes in 1-1000 dilution of
alkyl - dimothylbenzyl - ammonium chloride, sold
under several trade names. University of Illinois
tests using this solution showed no adverse effect
on dyes or materials commonly used in swimming
suits.

A disinfection vat should be provided near
showers, so that suits may be soaked. Such proce-

473

(lure also insures a nude shower. Women usually
demand privacy in taking a nude shower. They
may be required to hand their suits out to the
shower attendant for disinfection, or hang a pre-
viously "disinfected suit over the shower curtain
rod while they bathe.

Suits and Towels

Clean suits and towels should not be issued at
the same counter at which used suits and towels
are returned. The cross-infection possibilities are
obvious. Several skin disease outbreaks have re*
sulted from failing to observe this rule.

Equally important are the proper handling and
storage of suits and towels following laundering
and up until the time they are issued to the patron.
Hands and containers should be clean. Containers

should be covered.

Athlete’s Foot
This disease (also known as “ringworm or gym

itch”) was discovered by Hebra in 1860 and in.

later years, the cause was found‘to be a fungus
which is a spore-former and very persistant. This
infectious fungus is frequently transmitted. through
locker and dressing room floors, shower stalls and
around swimming pools. Bath mats, common
towels, and floor coverings are other places where
the fungus can live. I

Since the fungus thrives best under conditions
of warmth and moisture, wet feet provide an ex-
cellent point of attack. Thorough drying of the
feet, especially between the toes following swim-
ming, is an important preventive measure. Once
these spores get a foothold in shoes, hose or gloves,
they can remain alive for many months. Reinfec-
tion frequently appears after an “area has appar-
ently been cured. '

Approximately fifty per cent of our population
is infected to some degree, and therefore preven-
tive, as well as curative, measures should be taken.
Foot cleanliness is essential but that alone isn’t
enough. All floors and places where bare feet may
step should be frequently cleaned and treated with
some preparation to kill the fungus spores. PeOple
should be instructed to wear slippers while in the
locker and shower rooms.

Although “athlete’s foot” is extremely prevalent,
not more than ten per cent of the cases are serious.
About forty per cent need medical attention and
can be cured. About fifty per cent clear up without
medical attention but require prOper safeguards
against exposure.

l’ersons suffering from severe cases should be
excluded from public pools. Pool personnel can
do a great deal toward reducing the incidence of

474

thlS infection by warning patrons and also by keep-
ing the bathhouse properly cleaned and disinfected.

Prevention of the spread of “athlete’s foot” and‘
ordinary good housekeeping require maintenance'
of clean and disinfected floors throughout the bath—
house.

In most pools, with normal to heavy usage,
floors should be treated three times daily. Thor-'
oughly cleaning the floor first greatly facilitates
disinfection.

Several approved treatment methods are avail-
able: '

I. Mopping with soap and hot water, followed
by application of either chlorine, cresol, or copper
sulphate.

2. Use of a combined cleaner and disinfectant.
One such product is a mixture of detergents and
bonzylated phenols. '

3. Mopping with hot, strongly alkaline, soapy
water.

4. Hosing down the floors, applying with a stiff
brush a solution of one-half of a thirteen-ounce
can of lye dissolved in one bucket of hot water,
and then following with hose rinse.

The above methods could be alternated in use.

Slippery Floors
Floor surfaces should be non-slip to wet feet,
and yet reasonably smooth. This represents a
compromise between safety and sanitation require—

-ments. Some pools have slippery, dangerous floors

and pool walks; slimy algae growths aggravate
such a situation.

Bush-hammering is not advocated because ofi
the many small catchments formed which will in-|1
terfere with proper floor cleaning and disinfection.

Painting with a paint abrasive mixture is not;
satisfactory, as this treatment makes the surface“
very dichult to clean. 1

One approved treatment is the frequent appliqi
cation of certain strong cleaning powders (non-P
acid) to render smooth concrete or terrazzo surjr
faces non-slip.

Raised wooden walkways and mats (cocoa, rub _
ber, etc.) should be eliminated. In most cases the
are of no practical value. They tend to interfer
with floor cleaning, and also provide a place wher
bacteria and fungi may multiply, spreading infec
tion. Diving board mats should receive daily treat
ment with a strong disinfectant.

Foot Baths

Foot baths have been used in_ the past in a1
effort to control “athlete’s foot.” Their effective
ness for this purpose has been poor in many case
because the solution used may not have been

    
    
 
 
 
  
  

RECREATIO

  
 

r sloppy housekeeping and its implications.

l
I

'I be instituted, followed by any further action

Public Library
Jacksonville. '

very good fungicide, and the time of contact may

' have been too short. When the foot bath is neg—

lected, conditions are worse than when there is no
foot bath at all. Instead of preventing disease, a
poorly kept foot bath may be a major factor in its
spread! '

The main arguments for a foot bath are:

I. It excludes persons in street shoes from the
pool area—if the foot bath is pr0perly located, non-
movable, and large enough.

2. It prevents bathers from tracking dirt into
the pool area.

The present trend is to eliminate the foot bath,
or convert it to the flowing-through type, with a
constant supply of fresh water being added. No
fungicide is used in the Howing-through type. Be
sure the fresh-water inlet is at least six inches
above the rim ’of the foot bath.

Bathhouse

CHECKING FACILITIES:

Valuables: The two-signature, sealed envelope
system appears to be the most satisfactory for
checking valuables. The patron seals his valuables,
signs the envelope, and is required to sign again
before getting it back. The checker compares the
signatures.

Clothes: Various methods are in use, such as
bags, lockers, or baskets made of either wood.
wire, or sheet metal.

The basket system is the most widely used at
outdoor pools. Elastic bands or pins with num-
bered discs are issued for identification.

Lockers are in use at _many indoor pools. They
are not readily adaptable to handling large crowds,
because of excessive space requirements. A com-
bined basket-locker system could be provided,
when necessary. It is necessary to wash and
disinfect lockers frequently, both for sani-
tation and for odor and vermin control.
When lockers are issued on a seasonal basis,
a weekly inspection of locker contents should

indicated by the inspection.

BATH HOUSE MAINTENANCE:

Good housekeeping in the bathhouse will
result in a clean, attractive appearance which
will do wonders for any promotion program.
The patron will be impressed almost entirely
by the conditions that he can see and under-
stand. One of his first contacts with the pool
is in the bathhouse. He will readily note

His opinion of the entire pool will be based
on what he can see or smell).

JANUARY 1948

Adequate
cleanliness.

Fresh paint is always good advertising.

Lavatories, urinals, and toilets should be cleaned
at least twice daily, if odors and unsightliness are
to be avoided. '

Floors are especially important and adequate
waste receptacles should be provided.

lighting and ventilation promote

 

*Reprinted from Beach and Pool, 1947.

 

Asks Idle Schools be.
Used As Youth Clubs

FOUR HUNDRED BUILDINGS in Chicago, with
gymnasiums, playtields and auditoriums, are
going to waste, Dr. Philip L. Seman, honorary
chairman of the Chicago Recreation Commission,
declared recently. They are Chicago schools, which
lie idle after school hours, during vacation months
and on weekends. '

On the other hand, he stated, Los Angeles school
buildings are in use twelve months a year and
seven days a week. They are open to the public
from four pm. until midnight.

A member of the executive board of the Chicago
Conference for Youth since 1943, Dr. Seman said:

“Instead of building youth canteens and consol-
ing our youth with small spaces in church halls,
public schools could be used at no cost to the
citizen. In Los Angeles last year 14,360 permits
were issued f0r auditoriums, gymnasiums and
playfields for after-school activities.”

 

See review of “Swimming Pool Data
and Reference Manual,” page 504.

 

475

Drama in the Recreation Program

as N CONSIDERING THE place and importance of
I drama in a recreation program, it will be well
to bear in mind at the outset the fact that drama,

in itself, can sell a whole recreation program
to disbelievers.”

The above pertinent statement came from the
29th National Recreation Congress meeting on
“Drama in the Recreation Program.” All present
at the gathering were agreed upon the importance
of drama in such a program—its creative, educa-
tional and cultural value, its value in the area of
public relations, interpretation and in the recruit-
ing of participants for a recreation program. It
also was agreed that the possibilities of drama in
program have not yet been scratched.

Among these representatives of recreation who
had gathered from all parts of the country were
some who had a background of experience in
working with a drama program, some who had
not. All were keenly interested, and all had come
for information, for help and to exchange experi-

ences. Together the group discovered the follow-
ing aids in this field:

I. The American National Theatre Academy,
I39 West 45th Street, New York City, is organ-
ized to help people with little theatre groups, to
advise on problems, to help coordinate any sep-
arate theatre groups in one community, to help

people secure plays, to give tips on where you may
obtain equipment, and so on.

2. Several universities have set up courses in
“Recreational Dramatics”——the University of
Washington, in Seattle; Northwestern University,

in Evanston, Illinois; and Fordham University in
New York City.

3. A good book on drama in recreation—“Play-
making with Children”—has just been published.
(See December RECREATION.) It was written by
Winifred Ward, author of the well-known “Crea-
tive Dramatics.” Miss Ward now gives a summer
course in playground dramatics at Northwestern.

4. For other helpful books on dramatics, get a
list from The Drama Bookshop, 48 West 52nd
Street, New York City.

An interesting point brought out at the meeting
was the contribution that drama is making in the

476

veter‘ans hospitals by means of recreation pro-
grams throughout the United States.

Most of the discussion centered about the ques—
tion how to get a drama program started, espe-
cially if it is impossible to have a paid director. It
was suggested that the way to get started is to
start—with only six people, if necessary, but with
expansion in mind. There is in every community
at least a handful of peOple who will .be interested,
who have taken a coursesomewhere, had some ex-
perience connected with the theatre in some way.
You might send out a request for such persons to
get in touch with you; you might contact repre—
sentatives of various organizations, ministers; pub-
lish announcements in the newspapers; gather a
small group together and talk it over. Start work
with that group, and they will draw others into it.
Those who know something about the theatre can
train the others. Look about you for talent; an
amazing amount of it is hidden in the most un-
likely places in every community. Use whatever
space you have, no matter how small; improvise as
far as equipment is concerned. Ideally, drama

should have its own Space in community centers.

Creative dramatics have their place in every
program. Everyone acts, anyway; capitalize on this
fact. An excellent place to start children’s drama
groups is on the playground. Play “tournaments”
are not necessary. Drama is enough fun in itself.

It is a good idea to integrate'the arts and crafts
groups with drama groups in regard to scenery,
costumes, posters and so, on.

It was suggested that Junior Leagues through-
out the country can help with funds for worthwhile
projects. If you interest them, acquaint them with
your plans and with what you are trying to do—
they can help publicize your project in the commu—
nity, and set up a demonstration program.

Expansion can come through trained leaders
who can train volunteers, who, in turn, will train
others. It was agreed by all that drama should be
entirely democratic, calling upon those with abil-
ity, so that the truck driver and chemist may be
working side by side on lighting, scenery, etc.,
everyone having a free opportunity to participate.
The little theatre’s contribution to the community
can be far reaching and exceedingly worthwhile.

RECREATION

Blind Champions

Sightless Athletes Make the Team

Charles Buell

Do YOU PITY the blind? Do you think the
sightless are forced to be inactive? Do you

feel sorry for yourself because you’re handicapped?
Are you interested in learning something about
what the blind have been doing in athletics? If so,
these paragraphs are written particularly for you.

Mentioned here are a few of many blind wres—
tlers, bowlers, golfers, gymnasts, swimmers, fenc—
ers, and crew men. Unless otherwise indicated,
these men are totally blind.

One day in the summer of 1935 Edwin Motter
and his sighted brother, Justus, went to the beach
at Santa Monica, California. They found a black
mat spread out on the sand and an excellent in—
structor teaching gymnastics and tumbling to all
who wanted to learn. Although Edwin was blind,
the instructor asked him if he wouldn’t like to
learn some tricks. Motter was amazed to find that
he could do some of the simpler feats. With his
brother, he practiced long hours in the park and at
the Los Angeles YMCA. After some discussion,
the gymnastic coach at high school agreed to let
Motter try out for the team. Specializing in free
exercises and rope climbing, he worked hard and
made good. i

In 1940, after Motter entered the University of
California at Los Angeles, he found that “blind-
ness seemed to be“ no particular handicap, merely
a slight inconvenience at times.” He worked long
.hours to prepare for intercollegiate competition.
Although he made a letter every year, the most
interesting part of the story is yet to be told.

Edwin and Justus entered vaudeville with a
seven-minute hand balancing act. About eighty per
cent of their work was for private agencies such as
the Elks, Masons, and American Legion. In five
years they appeared in all the big night clubs,
dance halls, stadiums and .sports arenas in Los An—
geles, and entertained service men in all parts of
_ southern California.

A month before Edwin’s graduation from the
University, Justus was drafted into the armed
forces. Contracts for $180 worth of work for July

JANUARY 1948

fourth in the Pasadena Rose Bowl and the Los
Angeles Coliseum had to be cancelled. Sports In-
corporated had made an attractive offer to tour
EurOpe.

Finally, after receiving his degree, Edwin Mot-
ter came to the conclusion that the money and
glamour of show business did not compare with
more eternal values, and so he enrolled as a stu-
dent in a Bible school.

Wrestling is the ideal sport for most visually
handicapped boys. They need ask for no favors.
Only a more skillful opponent, who is in better
condition, can defeat a blind wrestler.

The term “wrestling” is used here to refer only
to the amateur Sport where all dangerous holds are
forbidden by the rules. Minor injuries, such as
mat burns, are not uncommon, but serious injuries
are rare occurences.

Perhaps the 'best known blind athlete is Robert
Allman. He learned the fundamentals of wrestling
from Neal Quimby at the Philadelphia School for
the Blind. After wrestling for Frankfort High
School and the Black Hawk Boys Club, Allman
enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania. In
four years he won twenty matches for Pennsyl—
vania and placed second in the Eastern Intercol-
legiate Wrestling 'Meet three times. Allman also
won the Middle Atlantic A.A.U. I 18 lb. champion-
ship. In 1939 he was elected captain of the Penn-
sylvania wrestling team and the newspapers chose
him as the most courageous athlete of the year.
Allman, a Phi Beta Kappa student, was active in
several organizations on the campus. He was
awarded the Senior Spade for being one of the top
all-around men of his class.

There is no secret behind this blind man’s suc—
cess. Allman trained faithfully hour after hour to
perfect his holds, counters, and escapes. That he
succeeded is demonstrated by the fact that oppon-
ents were able to take him to the mat only twice in
four years of collegiate wrestling.

Today, Robert Allman is a successful attorney
and has an insurance brokerage business in Phila-

477

delphia. A few months ago he convinced Radio
Station KYW that a blind man could do a good
sports program. The script is written in braille.
Allman’s weekly broadcasts feature local sports
news; a personalized editorial; a salute to the ath-
lete of the week; an interview with an important
sports guest ;, and late flashes off the wire. He is
the only blind sports announcer in the United
States.

Another outstanding athlete is Jacob Twersky,
who was not pinned in eight years of wrestling.
He learned the fundamentals from Clyde Downs
at the New York Institute for the Education of the
Blind and received the “polish” from Joe Sapora
at New York’s City College. Twersky was chosen
captain of the CCNY wrestling team in 1943. The
previous year he won the New York City Metro-
politan Championship in the 121 lb. class. Jacob
Twersky is now an orientation counsellor of the
blind at the Veterans Hospital, Bronx, New York.
Recently he received his PhD. degree from New
York University.

Teams of sightless bowlers have been organized
in Los Angeles, St. Louis, New York, Philadel—
phia, Boston, Cincinnati, Chicago, and in many
other cities. Blind people may bowl from a set
position at the foul line or grasp an iron rail and
use a running start. Some sightless bowlers try to
put the ball on the same spot on the alley time
after time. Others have the pin boy call out the
numbers of the pins still standing.

Beginners may score thirty while others average
150 or better. Scores from I 50 to 200 are common
at the Lighthouse in New York City where forty
blind bowlers compete in a league. In St. Louis,
Roy F osgett’s average is 145 while Frank Hughes
has 160. A few months ago, Carl Rose made a
clean sweep of the honors in the twenty—man bowl-
ing league of the.Blind Men’s Recreation Club in
Brooklyn. His scores in the single-game, three-
game series and average departments were 232,
540 and 145. George McDonald of Oakland, Cali—
fornia, has an average of 142 with a high game of
256 to his credit.

Golf pros always tell their pupils “to keep your
eyes on the ball,” but the blind have discovered
that this rule is not absolutely necessary. There
are several blind men who can‘shoot eighteen holes
in the low eighties. The blind man’s caddy or
companion describes the lie and distance on each
ball. In teeing off, a blind golfer has his caddy
guide the head of the club against the ball. When
the caddy steps back, the blind man sets his stance
and swings.

478

In 1944 a German shell exploded a tank under
Charles Boswell, ex-halfback from the University
of Alabama. He lost his vision and was sent to a
hospital; but in a few months, Boswell became a
well—adjusted useful citizen. Two years after the
accident, he shot an eighty-two for eighteen holes
at the Highland Park Golf Course in Birming-
ham, Alabama.

Six years ago, the New York G'uild for the
Jewish Blind became interested in fencing. The
team of Patrick Conroy, Isidor Hirshberg, An-
thony Oliver, and William Solomon have out-
fenced most of their sighted opponents. Blind
fencers do not move their whole arms in parry and
thrust, but keep them straight out in an “on
guard” position. All the side and up and down
movements are executed with quick “beats” of the
wrist. So quick are the “beats,” that they cannot
be seen. Hence, touch is important in finding an
adversary’s foil. The sense of touch is usually
highly developed in the blind. The sightless fenc-
ers perceive and sometimes even anticipate the
strokes of an adversary. When the blind lose the
opposing blade, they take the offensive. Their im-
mediate attack is the best defense against counter-
attack.

In 193I Don Morgan, who had lost his vision
as a result of a fireworks explosion, was stroke of
one of Cornell University’s crews.

King Nawahi, born of Hawaiian English de-
scent, lost his vision ten years ago while traveling
the R.K.O. vaudeville circuit. Yet, after this, he
organized a musical trio and played in night clubs.
During the war, Nawahi entertained returning vet-
erans in many of the southern California hospitals.
Finding that many sightless veterans were despon—
dent, he decided to swim the Catalina Channel to
prove that blindness is not an insurmountable
handicap.

On September Ist, 1946, King Nawahi swam
from Catalina to Ca'brillo on the mainland. The
official time for the twenty-six mile swim was
twenty-two hours and fourteen minutes. A cur-
rent held Nawahi off. shore for six hours. “The
greatest hardship suffered during the swim was
the burning caused from the salt water and
grease,” he said. “I lost my goggles the first hour
off Catalina.” There were no financial, gains be-
cause Nawahi had to pay all expenses for renting
boats and training. .

Blind people are like sighted people. They can
do just about anything if they work hard enough
toward that particular end. Do not pity America’s
quarter of a million sightless, but let them, rather,
lead lives of usefulness.

RECREATION

 

R. Tait McKenzie Memorial

Arman THE DEATH of Dr. R. Tait McKenzie in
1938, the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation appointed the
McKenzie Memorial Committee to work out plans
for an appropriate memorial to this distinguished
leader. The committee decided to place a pedes-
taled reproduction of Dr. McKenzie’s beautiful
sculpture, The Column of Youth, in a prominent
location at the headquarters of the National Edu-
cation Associaton in Washington. Delayed some-
what by the war, the project has now been com-
pleted. Dedication ceremonies were held in the
National Education Association building at \Nash-
ington, D. C., on Saturday, December I 3, when a
white marble reproduction of The Column of
I Youth was unveiled and placed in the custody of
- the National Education Association. This work is
: a simple, dignified study of a typical American
boy and girl. ,
' Canadian—born of Scottish parents, the young
. McKenzie, at the age of nine lost his father. For
the most part, he had to make his own way from
then on, but he was abundantly fit for the task.
He studied medicine at McGill University and re—
ceived his M. D. degree. He was called to Phila-
delphia in 1904 to head the Department of Physi-
cal Education of the University of Pennsylvania,
a responsibility which he carried .with real distinc-
tion until his death.

The sensitive hands of the surgeon began in
middle age to find satisfaction in the molding of
clay. As time passed, Dr. McKenzie became in-
creasingly able in the arts of modeling, sketching,
and sculpture. As his ability and interest in this
field developed, his production of artistically per-
fect pieces increased. When he died, he left a total

IANUARY 1948

The sensitive hands of the
surgeon began to find satisfac—
tion in the molding of clay . . .

of at least 233 works ranging from simple sketches
to the beautiful and moving Scottish-American
war memorial, The Call, which stands as a memor-
i‘al to Scotland’s dead in World War I in Princes
Street Gardens in Edinburgh, Scotland. Many of
his sculptured pieces took the form of athletic
bronzes; medallions and plaques. Leaders in the
recreation field and many thousands of boys and
girls in America who have used the Athletic Badge
tests are familiar with the bronze figures on the
boys’ badges and the girls’ badges. These are two
samples of Dr. McKenzie’s work.

Dr. McKenzie’s life had many facets. He was
first of all a scholar. He was also teacher, lecturer,
writer, sculptor, artist, scientist, physician, physio-
therapist, soldier, humanitarian. By virtue of his
fine philosophy in the field of physical education
and his deep love of music and the arts, he was a
distinguished member of the great recreation
family.

It is of interest to note that the poem “Song for
Youth”* written by Mrs. McKenzie, served as Dr.
McKenzie’s inspiration for the creation of The
Column of Youth.

SONG FOR YOUTH

Come! Let us pledge our faith to one another,
Sharing the joy of work and dance and song.
Brother shall clasp the friendly hand of brother
Building a world free, beautiful and strong.

Grant us the love that cannot soil or sever,
Grant us the soul that nothing daunts or mars.
Then standing bravely, ‘boy and girl together,
Let us march singing forward to the stars.

I

 

*Reprinted from the Journal of Health and Physical Education.
The February 1944 R. Tait McKenzie Memorial Issue contained
a great deal of interesting material about Dr. McKenzie.

479

 

FINGER PAINTING. a simple, effective form of ex-

pression, requires no formal training in art.

SHELLCRAFT is easy for everybody. These

dolls were made by servicemen at San Juan.

D
P .
5.: \

CREATIVE A“

Creative activities are not only just plain fu
can be a gratifying experience. There is no
like that glow of achievement when one can 10
a finished product and say, “Did I really do t
Creative experience provides a release in tim
tension and satisfies some of the basic human

 

LEATH ERCRAFT is always popular. Useful articles

of all sorts are made and carefully treasured.

 

AIRPLANE MODEL MAKING fascinates young DRAMA is fun, does much toward selling a _
boys. A good program activity for playgrounds. recreation program. (See article on page 476.
480

RECREATION

 

LS can decorate Your building for holiday
or permanently. Let everyone help.

RECREATION

-expression, recognition and new adventure.
activities should be made available to

dy by means 0f informal crafts and hObby PAINTING just for fun! Paint somebody’s new hat,

as we" as. 1" SChedmed art classes' Too many an old wooden bowl, worn shoes, anything you see.
ve been in awe of the creative arts too long.

plore! (See article, page 463.)

 

 

R COLORS are used as easily out-of-doors as MODELING is not diEcult in clay and plasticum.

s, are not difficult to carry wherever you go. A sand castle is absorbing this young miss.

r

JANUARY 1948 481

 

SKA TIJVG CL UBS
_ in High School and College

ROLAND C. GEIST

KATING IS AN ideal sport for schools and col-
leges because it is a healthful outdoor and in-
door recreation, artistic in form and scientific in
principle, open to both sexes without age limit;
may be enjoyed alone or with others and is inex—
pensive to the individuals and to the institutions
fostering it. Unlike football it is not a dangerous
sport. It is interesting to note that roller skating
seems to be more popular than ice skating in the
United States; three million roller skates are man—
ufactured annually to one million ice skates. In
the Greater New York area, there are twenty—six
roller rinks to four ice rinks.

Five requirements for organizing and running
a skating club are: I. the securing of an interested
man and woman faculty adviser or coach to organ-
ize and guide the skating club; 2. getting together
student officers for the club; 3. obtaining a place
to skate—a lake, river, pond, outdoor or indoor
rink near the institution; 4. ownership of skates
by club members or an opportunity for rental of
skates; 5. written parental consent for minors and

a physical check-Hi) by the Health Education De-
partment for all.

In every institution of learning there probably
will be a faculty member who enjoys skating. who
can be enlisted to guide the new club. A few hours
a week devoted to skating instruction and guidance
should suffice. The writer devotes about six hours
a week, or three skating sessions, to this purpose
at the Newtown High School in Elmhurst, Long
Island.

In addition to free skating for all, there are
many types of skating activities available to clubs:
girls usually take to figure skating, ice dancing and
free style routines; boys enjoy hockey, speed skat-
ing and skate sailing. A winter sports carnival is
usually on the program of most northeastern col-
leges. At Newtown, students may win their minor
and major “N” by passing tests in figure skating
or by winning speed skating races such as that of
the Silver Skates. Roller skaters have an oppor-
tunity to pass the elementary and advanced dance
tests. Hockey games, fancy dress events, skate

482

sailing races are a part of the skating program.

Many colleges have campuses with water near-
by. City high schools are not so fortunate, but
may make arrangements with a nearby rink or use
the facilities of a nearby park for this purpose.
N ewtown High School skaters use the city rink at
the New York World’s Fair grounds at twenty-
two cents a session. Music and perfect ice make
the afternoons pass all too quickly. Usually five or
six faculty members enjoy skating with the student
body. It might be feasible for roller skaters to use
the wooden floor of a gymnasium for practice and
special events.

If possible, students should have their own shoe'
skates which fit perfectly, for hired skates usually
are unsatisfactory. However, practically all rinks
have roller or ice skates for rent for about fifty
cents. Class instruction is available at most roller
rinks in both elementary and advanced dancing.
Figure skating instruction on ice is more expen-
sive than that for roller skating.

Minors joining school and college clubs should
have parental consent in writing. This protects the
coach, the institution and the children, and advises
parents as to how the children are spending their
spare time and money. It is equally important to
have a physical check-up by a physician. For in-
stance, upon examination, several students under
the writer’s charge were surprised to find that they
liad a heart condition. Hockey and speed skating
are very strenuous and candidates for these teams
should have the same careful health test as mem-
bers of the football squad. At Newtown High
School the following card must be signed by par-
ent and school physician before a student ma}
join the skating activities:

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

T. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..parent or guardian 'i

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .grant my son (daughter

permission to join all activities of the Newtown Skatin
Club. I assume full responsibility for him (her).

Signed Parent or Guardian.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . M.D.
O.K. Ilealth Education Dept.

RECREATIO

 

 

Equality for All—To further the cause of
justice, amity, understanding and cooperation
among all religions is the aim of American Broth-
erhood Week. Observed February 22-29 under
1the auspices of the National Conference of
Christians and Jews, Brotherhood Week affords
the Opportunity of emphasizing the necessity of
inter-group education, and of securing public sup-
port for it. President Truman has again accepted
the Honorary Chairmanship and the. Honorable

obert P. Patterson, former Secretary of War,
Fiill act as General Chairman.

0
l The' Good Old Days—There’ll be singing
and dancing in St. Louis, Missouri, April 7-10,
when the fourteenth Annual National Folk Festi—
I'val is held. Once again, the Associated Retailers
of St. Louis will be the sponsors of this festival
:which offers gay music, colorful costumes of for-
leign lands and a wealth of folk traditions.
o

. Around the Globe—“An International Youth
Conference, sponsored by the Echo der W ache. a
German publication with headquarters fin Munich,
will be held sometime in the spring of 1948 in
Munich,” reports a Lieutenant Colonel of the
Office of Military Government for Bavaria._ “The
general aim of this conference is to promote inter-
national understanding among the youth of the
world, and to examine the ways by which the
.youth of every land may contribute to the solution
of the problems with which they are now faced or
will be faced in their generation . ”

IlANUARY 1948
|

Report from England—The following extract
from the 1946-47 annual report of the National
Playing Fields Association of England indicates
that in that country, too, play areas and indoor
centers are popular as living war memorials: “Evi-
dence is accumulating to show that the provision
of playing fields and community centers as war
memorials is likely to prove the most popular type
of local effort to commemorate permanently those
who lost their lives or rendered service in the great
task of achieving victory.”

The report also mentions the c00perative ex-
change of information with the National Recrea-
tion Association: “Relations with the Recreation
Association of America, now in its forty-first year,
have continued to be cordial. The regular inter-
change of ideas, information and publications that
has been established is proving mutually benefi-
cial.”

For the Handicapped—The Arm Chair Sen-
tinel is a mimeographed pamphlet published by the
Bureau of Recreation in Evanston, Illinois, “for
the pleasure and in the interest of the Evanston
Sunshine Club of physically handicapped persons.”
Distributed every threemonths, the Sentinel offers
its audience a diverse variety of reading material.
There is news about the latest books, recent social
events, births and birthdays, radio programs.
Readers can laugh at the humorous jokes, quote
the printed poems and sayings and accept the chal-
lenge of the brain teasers and quizzes.

483

Fun at the Fair—Rare historical children’s
books, original book illustrations, Newberry and
Caldecott Medal books and 5,000 books for chil-
dren were exhibited at the Boys’ and Girls’ Book
Fair at the Museum of Natural History in New
York. Held November 21 through November 24,
the Fair was sponsored by the Museum, the New
Y ark Times and the Children’s Book Council. Fa-
mous illustrators of boys’ and girls’ books gave
chalk talks each day. Story hours, dancing, music,
and demonstrations and films showing the process
of book making, miracles of the plant world, sci-
ence experiments and other subjects added to the
pleasure of all who attended.

I

City Culture—American Art Week, a new
event in Keene, New Hampshire, proved very
successful under the direction of the city’s recrea-
tion leader, the state chairman of art and the
executive secretary of the Keene Business Bureau.
A cooperative spirit was in evidence everywhere:
city officials granted free use of City Hall; school
children, art students, local artists—both profes-
sional and amateur—contributed their paintings;
the local new5paper reported and reviewed the
event and the local radio station broadcasted inter-
views and a half-hour program. A total of 1,760
people attended the exhibition, and the Art Week
Committee was so pleased with the results that
plans are now being prepared to make this an an-
nual occurrence.

0

In Memoriam—Fort Myers’ 1947-48 winter
season started officially in November with the
opening of the Thomas Alva Edison home to the
public. The property, presented to Fort Myers by
the late Mrs. Edison, is being maintained by the
city as a memorial, with gardens and house fur-
nishings remaining for the most part as the Edi—
sons used them. High point of the winter season
comes February 9—15 with the Edison Pageant of
Light, which ends with a coronation ball.

The Silver Lining—Shelby, North Carolina,
has installed parking meters which will probably
make motorists a little unhappy, but revenue from
the meters will go to the recreation budget. Au-
thorities claim that the meters will pay for them-
selves in nine months and from then on the returns
are expected to be somewhere between $25,000
and $30,000 for recreation purposes. Shelby has
also recently passed a bond issue of $150,000 for
recreation park areas.

484

   

Variety Is the Keynote—The wonders 0
science and modern invention are not the onl
features which attract young and old to the Buf
falo Museum of Science in New York. The Muse
um also offers a monthly schedule of activities fo
all who are interested. There are special exhibit
and events, travel talks, twilight music hours, colo
movies of foreign lands, as well as eurythmic
classes for children from seven to ten years, a craf
club, a sketch club, a composers’ clinic for buddin
song writers, an elementary course in rudimentary
techniques of theory, harmony and ear training,
plus many other, available opportunities for crea
tive activities. The fall program of adult study an
recreation courses provides forty—one classes i
nature, music, photography, arts and crafts give .
in cooperation with the Board of Education.

0

Can You Qualify?—An expanded 1948 com
petitive program for young model builders, witl
added emphasis on the designing and building 0
miniature automobiles, has been announced by th
Fisher Body Craftsman’s Guild again this year.
Awards will include eight university scholarship
for national winners. For further information
write to the Fisher Body Craftsman’s Guild, Gen-
eral Motors Building, Detroit 2, Michigan.

"Find the Missing Million”—-—Social H ygien
Day I 948 has as its theme the urgent necessity for
the early discovery of existing cases of venereal
diseases and for sound and effective programs de-
signed to prevent future infections. Materials for
the February 4 observance may be obtained from
the Social Hygiene Day Service of the American
Social Hygiene Association at 1790 Broadway,

New York.

 

Television supplements active program, Wilmett
Illinois. Village youth watch big league game

RECREATIO

  

   

Dramatics on
a Shoestring

George A. Lepper

 YOU CAN stage six one—act plays and include a
piano concerto with an especially arranged
band accompaniment; enlist the free services of
some hundred actors, musicians, directors, scout
ushers and stagehands; provide for audience par—
ticipation in the free show, and actually do it all
for less than sixty dollars—you’ve come pretty
close to promoting dramatics on a shoestring!
That’s exactly what the Shoestring Players of
Norwalk, Ohio, did for a performance which'was
presented one evening last summer.
The Shoestringers, a persistent and hardy group
of amateur dramatists, had long felt the desire to
do something for and with the youngsters of the
locality who might someday take their own places
before the footlights. They had successfully pre-
sented four one-act plays in 1946, and saw the
Possibilities of an all-out program in 1947. In
undertaking this, they hoped to bring new blood
into their own organization and to assume more
actively their rightful place in the local scheme of
things through making a contribution to the cul-
tural and educational life of the community.
.. As a first step, a local attorney, guiding light of
the thespians, approached the city recreation de-
partment’s parent body—the Norwalk Park Board
—and proffered a budgef worked out with the
recreation department, that called for a fifty dollar
expenditure for the production of a five play fes-
rtival, to be presented free of charge. The Board,
delighted to help in such an undertaking, under-
wrote the project after being assured of an esti-
mate of some four hundred anticipated spectators.
In casting, however, things soon got out of
and. The registration campaign, publicized by
e schools and the Recreation Center and pro-
oted by the Shoestringers and the recreation
epartment, brought in some sixty teen-aged
, rould-be participants who wanted no jobs other
i han that of actor. After the try-outs, as many

FNUARY 1948

applicants as possible were shifted to understudy
and stagehand work; .others were given costuming
and makeup duties, while still others were assigned i.
to be directors’ assistants; but still the live plays
ready for rehearsal didn’t and couldn’t accommo-
date all the hopeful actors. ‘

Again the lawyer went to the Board. Using his
best courtroom manner, he pointed out that the
whole thing had been so well-promoted that the
project might cost more’ than the first anticipated
figure because of the unexpected need of an added
play to accommodate all who were interested in
taking part. Once more he got away “whole-
skinned,” with the approved budget raised to sixty
dollars for a six play festival.

By that time, six plays were in production:
“Low Bridge,” “Good Medicine,” 1 “Lady Rosa,”
“A Night at an Inn,”2 “He Ain’t Done Right
by Nell” 2 and “The Stone of Wisdom.” 3 One-
act plays all, they were so arranged on the
program as to keep the action moving and the
sets varied. The whole production was juggled
in order that the 'strong plays should not over-
balance those less colorful. The final play, inci-‘
dentally, was written by a local. Norwalkian, and
while it didn’t win the prize awarded to the cast
of the best play, it ran a strong second. The prize
went to the melodrama “He Ain’t Done Right by
Nell,” and the cast of that tear-jerker thereby re-
ceived due recognition. The names of all actors
and directors of the play were engraved on a large
trophy which had been donated by the local Junior
Chamber of Commerce, a family-sized “Oscar,” as
it were.

The Norwalk Community Band, a summer park
band sponsored by the Park Board, offered the
musical contribution of the evening. In addition
to the expected between-acts music, it performed
its piece de resistance of the summer—the Men-
delssohn G Minor Piano Concerto which had been
brilliantly transcribed from the orchestral score
and arranged for the band by the high school

'bandmaster. The solo piano part was played by

the recreation director.
In order to make the festival as democratically
cooperative as possible, the audience was given an

', opportunity to participate in the program by help-

ing in the selection of the Winning play. This was
done by including a ballot on the playbill. one

'which was perforated and easily detachable. The
.spectator was requested to mark with pencil, or

punch with bobby-pin, the box opposite the play
for which he desired to vote. After the presenta-

 

1 Longmans, Green & Company. 2 Samuel French, Incorporated.
3 Margaret Young Bishop.

485

tion of the final play, the ballots were collected at
the door and sent ba‘ckstage, where a committee
composed of the president of the Park Board, the
Mayor and the Common Pleas Court judge pre-
sided over the ballot counting.

Of course, expenses for the evening were kept
at a minimum only because the play festival had
the wholehearted backing and support of the citi—
zenry. No rent was charged for use of the thou-
sand-seat high school auditorium; band expenses,
trucking, hauling and labor charges were borne by
the Park Department and charged to recreation;
helpful volunteers appeared when most needed,
and lenders of furniture and donors of necessary
props were most anxious to cooperate.

The Shoestringers’ report of expenditures for
the 1947 Junior Shoestringers’ Summer Theatre
Festival is as follows:

Royalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$17.80

Printing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.00

Lumber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.92

Paint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.04

Scenery supplies and repairs . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 3.36

Cleaning of costumes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4.25

Miscellaneous materials and supplies . . . . .. 10.42

Piano tuning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00

Photography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.15

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$58.94

Now past their second year, the Junior Shoe-
stringers are an established unit in Norwalk. Their
membership is limited exclusively to students of
either high or junior high school age and no other
qualifications are considered necessary for mem-
bership. A card file is kept in the Shoestringers’
office, giving a fairly complete report on each act-
ing teen-ager—his punctuality at rehearsals, his
dependability, his speed and accuracy in learning
lines and his suitability for a variety of parts.

 

Yearly the Teen Drama Club of Indianapolis
presents dramas of excellent craftsmanship.

486

    
   
   
    
  
 
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

Necessary and unavoidable expenses are fac
by any and every production group, even if co
be figured from a royalty basis alone. There .
always a number of expenses that appear at
actual work has begun—expenses that no amo
of crystal gazing can anticipate. These expen
too often fall upon the shoulders of someone
cannot afford to meet them or to make a cash c
tribution to the cause.

The Shoestringers suggest that, in estimatin
budget, the director of the project “triple the r
alty and then skimp on each play.” They say t
this (a rule of thumb learned from their own p
sonal experience) will work in most cases—b
ring, of course, heavily costumed plays or mu
cals. And the Shoestringers certainly should knox

 

New Appointment

Sterling S. Winans of Los Angeles has bee
appointed State Director of Recreation in Cali
fornia by Governor Warren. A former municip
recreation executive in Santa Barbara, Mr. Winan
has. more recently been recreation consultant 0
the California Youth Authority. In his new posi
tion, he will be the executive officer of the new],
established California Recreation Commission.

100% Steel Ping-Pong Table

For Outdoor or Indoor Use

    
     
 

Here is the all-metal ping-pong table you
have been hoping for. Sturdily constructed
to last for years. Withstands extreme abuse

 
    

from play or weather. It will not dent or
warp. A non-removable solid steel plate
center net is furnished with each table. At-
tractively finished regulation size eight-legged
table. in two sections. specifically designed

        
     
 

and constructed for ,use in:

  
      

Playgrounds, Camps, Resorts

Recreation Centers, Public Parks

   

O

  
 

Price $98.50 within a radius of 25 miles of Jersey City
Elsewhere $l l0.00 F.O.B. Jersey City. N. J.

O

OUTDOOR METAL TENNIS TABLE CO.

ROUTE 4 AND ARLINGTON AVE.
TEANECK. NEW JERSEY

    
     
   
   
 
  

RECREATIO

 

The Local Skating Rink

Wherein the American Legion adopts the idea of a skat-

ing rink and launches it as a community welfare project.

 

[1E LOCAL SKATING rink in Proctor, Vermont,
has become such an established institution
| that few of the younger generation can remember
the time when there was no such thing. That was
some twenty-five years ago, so it is not surprising.
Previous to that time, the youngsters used to skate
on Beaver Pond and on rare occasions on the
“crik.” Under ideal conditions the skating was
wonderful, but most of the time the surface was
covered with snow or rough spots. Ever present
was the hazard of dropping through into deep
water.

The rink idea had its inception when some of
the boys. just returned from lighting World War
I, tried to maintain a skating surface on Beaver
Pond. The venture was not successful but it did
serve as a proving ground for ideas.

The following winter, Proctor Post of the Amer-
ican Legion adopted the idea as a community wel-
fare. project and one of the first artificial rinks in
Vermont came into being. A small shanty, which
served as a warming house, was erected on the east
end of Warner Field and the adjacent area was
sprayed with a hose until a layer of i’ce formed.

JANUARY 1948

A manager was hired, and many were his trials
and tribulations trying to make ice with the tiny
stream from a garden hose.

The warming house was heated by the old fa-
miliar mill stove. The stove had to be screened
after one customer backed too close and with a
piercing yell, left the'print of his pants on the hot
iron and of his cap on the ceiling.

The rink continued each winter for ten years
in its original location on the ball diamond, but
after these many years, the members of the Post
decided to move it into the grove to the east and
erect a new warming house. This proved more of
a venture thanimost of the Legionnaires had an—
ticipated and the sponsor of the idea was the sub-
ject of many acrimonious remarks before the job
was done. The members gave freely of their time
and worked all one summer felling and cutting up
scores of huge pines. The felling was done by
means of dynamite on a wholesale scale and some
of the boys felt as though they were back at Chan
teau-Thierry. The commander of the Post was an
early casualty, having swung an axe at his foot
under the impression that it was a root.

487

1po

ials, workmansh

ilson basketballs, volley ball
and soccer balls are the LAST WORD.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO.

lson—mater

By any compar
performance —W

)
W
.m
.“
b
0
S
C.
n
I.
u.
o
C
a
n
0
um
M

T
N
c:
M
P
U
Q
E
(J
T
R
o
P
ca
W.
Y
A
D
o
T
N
o
(J
u...
w
.,$
T

s
"w
.w
w
r
0
am
0
n0
m
[I
w
Y
W
O
N
o:
W
HM
C

o

‘n
n

r” 0*
("05:0

’l

abusinxycixv x
«.«wvswwxwawo yaw.
0.» 6.: .a
vi.“ mi
a-Q.¢Q#Wona\*ooo :itat
u v: .int «.yi4aoniiacknos
It 3 .soxqqowvtn a.
:5. .2972v-wiutaxax
. kink: 5533,39“:

«‘ ;. rolooeuiva‘iatab

339%.»...
vanxxx x a ( Bu.

. u. . a 0.. 1whuhr no]; n.1,. cannon:
i... l V J . .. . “:7.
.Is .oq .5- .. o H No...
 $3.}: a.
o .
.9. n. .

u

q

E-BALL
é“

\ i..u.......f}33. a. .
‘

ASK
socczj‘z BALI.
i

I!

 

  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
      
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
    
   
  
  

Finally, the area was clear of trees and looked
nice and flat. For purposes of making a rink it
had to be level, but was it level? No, not by about
six feet! An amusing incident occurred while
.establishing levels by driving stakes at the low spots
and digging holes in the high ones. The com-
. mander, back on the job again, was digging a hole
lto establish a level at the eastern or highest part
Iof the area. He would dig down a foot or so, try
the level rod and each time he was waved down by
the chap running the surveyor’s transit. For an
rea that looked pretty flat in the first place, it just
didn’t seem reasonable to have to dig so far to find
a level. So after going down four feet, the com-
mander threw down his shovel, stalked over to the
ransit operator and demanded to know whether
he was cross-eyed or if the instrument were bent.
rIt took a good deal of persuasion to make him dig
_-down two more feet. ‘

Anyhow, it was a sizable earth-moving job for
men with wheelbarrows, but the Legionnaires per-
psisted in their task and at the end of 399 man
hours, the area was finished and a new warming
lhouse was built with furnace heat and toilet facil-
ities. Just in time, too, because freezing weather
came early that year and flooding was started on
|November seventeenth.

In addition to the rink, a bobsled run was con-
structed, starting at the top of Olympus Road,
with banked turns to convey the sleds around the
skating area and onto the ball diamond. The slide
was iced by spraying and gave rides which attained
speeds of siicty miles per hour. It was finally aban-
doned as being difficult to maintain as well as
somewhat hazardous.

During most of the years of its existence, the
rink has been managed by one man who has shown
an interest far beyond any material compensation.
"To build up the original surface means constant
ttention for a week. The routine is to spray ten
iinutes, wait about a half hour until it freezes
ver, and then spray again, for twenty-four hours
day.

Sometimes there have been heavy snows, twenty
ches at a time. The manager has to send out an
OS and Legionnaires and kids from all around
itch in and dig until the surface is cleared.
0 close the rink is unthinkable. Sometimes the
anks have been piled head high and fifteen to
;.twenty feet wide. Often there have been stretches
’ f below zero weather; once the thermometer
$ropped to thirty—five degrees below, but believe it
or not, the rink had one customer.

I The primary purpose of the rink has been to
brovide a safe place for the children of the com-

NUARY 1948

 

munity to skate. Grade students are admitted free
every afternoon after school and on Saturday after-
noons for a nickel. Then you hear youthful voices
say to ’the manager, "‘Please tighten my straps”
or “Please put on my rubbers.” Mothers need not
worry. Their children are in good hands. High
school students have two free nights a week as
well as hockey privileges when they want them.

Occasionally winter carnivals have been held
which have proved entertaining to the public. On
favorable days and nights, the smooth ice is
crowded with youngsters and oldsters, too, enjoy-
ing the healthy and vigorous sport to music, while
the banks are lined with interested spectators, just
watching. As the swimming pool is to Proctor in -
the summer, so is the skating rink in the winter.
Few, indeed, are the towns fortunate enough to
have such facilities.

Interracial Program

1%”; .. .1.“ 4:: -

 

I i'
gray

u. ._.__._ J4.
\ __s. x I _ _ ..
if -_ E +_.- ’ "i" V.
‘f g " - (2-5.1. my: 1 ~‘_ '5

“in?” f" ’

K .
huh-.2}.

Children from Seattle’s Neighborhood House,
and interracial cultural and recreation center f1-
nanced through the Seattle—King County Commu-
nity Chest, are shown playing in the waters of
Lake Washington, one of the beautiful natural
lakes included in Seattle city limits, during a beach
party sponsored by the House.

The Neighborhood House, founded by the Seat-
tle Chapter of the National Council of Jewish
Women is located in Seattle’s most economically
depressed and overcrowded residential area. Its
program is designed to meet the needs of an ever—
changing underprivileged neighborhood and to fos-
ter better understanding of and respect for the tra-
ditions and creative impulses of all racial groups.

489

Authors in This Issue . . .

DR. DWAYNE ORTON—Director of Education,
International Business Machines Corporation.
(Article on page 459.)

RUSSELL A. PERRY—Superintendent of Recrea-
tion, \Nilmette, Illinois. (Article on page 460.)

DR. HARRY \NILSON—Professor of Music Edu-
cation. Teachers College, Columbia University.
Dr. Wilson led the lively singing sessions at the
Recreation Congress. Article on page 461.)

FLORENCE ANDERSON—During the war Flor-
ence Anderson, in the position of Program Spe-
cialist on the national staff of the USO Division,

National Board YWCA, did much to further the

development of creative arts programs in USO
clubs throughout the United States. (Article on

page 463-)

EPHRAIM EPSTEINmHead Counselor of the
Century Theatre’s “Sat-r-Day Camps” project.
(Article on page 468.)

DAVID J. DUBOIS—N.R.A.’s Henry Strong

Denison Apprentice Fellow in training at Tacoma,
Washington. (Article on page 471.)

CHARLES E. BUELL——Athletic Director, Cali—
fornia School for the Blind, Berkeley, California.

ROLAND C. GEIsr—Coach of Skating at New—
town High School, Elmhurst, Long Island. Mr.
Geist has been Secretary of the College Skating
Club of New York. (Article on page 483.)

,GEORGE A. LEPPER—Park and Recreation Di-
rector, Norwalk, Ohio. (Article on page 485.)

J headquarters for __  ,1:
G Y M M  s  I 73”: i.

= villa; tied ritg‘ioday! : '
s.  3 a I i  {g 5

.‘$ I l‘
5' I
lalW
l“ g is». 3,
I i / 
3 24* If”
. , _ .r
’  a, i .v‘rj‘ ”’r
f ,. ' ,2 3

n.

‘/ -\.
‘3‘

 

Robert K. Murray

 

Houston, Texas, was, announced on the eight
of December. A native of Illinois, he was educatedII
at Illinois Wesleyan University and the National .
Recreation School.

THE SUDDEN DEATH of Robert K. Murray ad

His professional service and genial personality
gave Robert Murray a wide acquaintance amon
the leaders in the public recreation movement. Ii
1930, he joined the field staff of the National Rec
reation Association and served as a specialist in
leadership training, primarily in social recreatio 
and games. The scores of such training courses
which he conducted throughout the country, wer
attended by both paid and v
public and private agencies as well as from many
well-known civic organizations.

  
   
  
   
  
    
   
  

O
—L
:2
5
&
(D
(D
"1
2'
O
"1
w
(D
’1
U)
H5
’1
Q
p—J

Mr. Murray became Superintendent of Recrea
tion at Dayton, Ohio, in 1937 and continued t
hold this position until he was granted a leave
absence in 1942 to enter the United States Navy
For a period of three years thereafter, he serve
as a Fleet Recreation and Welfare Officer. Whe
his active service was concluded in Novemb
1945, he returned to his former city post, but
year later left this position in Dayton to re-ent
the Navy. He resigned his Navy commission.
a full commander, in June 1947.

RECREATIO

Recreation SUGGESTION BOX

An Old Game in a New Dress

AMES AND STUNTS are always fun, and fine

for getting people acquainted. There are
ways of streamlining old standbys, to make them
seem new and exciting. This was done by Iowa
State College with the following:

 

Atomic Spelldown

Required: A clever master of ceremonies to keep
up enthusiasm, give unity and some meaning to
the event, give recognition and to pronounce words
clearly; two captains; two scorekeepers, one rep~
resenting each team—records of names should be
kept by quarters (if twenty are participating, the
first five to fail would form the first quarter group
regardless of team membership, etc.) ; one referee.
Procedure: Divide group into two teams to start.
Choosing sides is fun, but if group is large it takes
time. Automatic division could be made by giving
colored slips of paper at the door. The master of
ceremonies gives opening instructions and “pat-
ter.” Some of these words may seem uncommon
at first, but they soon will be as familiar as “air-
plane” and “automobile.”

Fifty Atomic Words

1. atom 18. Spedding 35. Oppenheimer
2. volt l9. chemistry 36. Bacher
3. tracer 20. scientist 37, Vannavar Bush
4. rays 21. uranium 38. Urey
5. cosmic 22. Einstein 39. Fermi
6. bombs 23. Baruch 40_ Rutherford
E7;. isotron  geldion 41. Lawrence
‘ spectogmph ' “:05 “Ila 42. Hicken-looper
9. magnetron 26. radio-active . .
. . 43. Lilient‘hal
10. transmutation 27. geiger counter .
. . 44. Pike
11. proton 28. isobar S
12. fission 29. Bikini 4 ° Strauss
13. neutrons 30. radiation 46' Compton
14. isotopes 31. annihilation 47- Warmck
15. electron 32. plutonium 48° Umth Nations
16. nucleus 33. universe 49- pieces
17. physics 34. Bohr 50. PEACE

  

JANUARY 1948

 

Helpful hints and bits of information on F0 ,_
this and that. Ways of doing things that J of“) 00,”,
have been proved through experience. Macaw/l8

If the spelling of the words seems too simple,
ask for both spelling and definition. For added
fun, each group may be called upon to give a. short
presentation, symbolic of the age it represents,
three minutes to prepare, two minutes to give.
These presentations may be a song—such as “My
Merry Oldsmobile,” or a dramatization or discus-
sion of the relative merits, romantic or financial, of

the age presented.

Flag Football

The Alhambra, California, Playground and Rec-
reation Department has devised a new game—a
cross between tackle and touch football— for those
who cannot afford regulation football equipment.
The rules are as follows:

The held is forty yards wide and eighty yards
long, divided by only two cross strips on each
thirty-yard line. A team has four downs in which
to advance the ball to the next cross strip. There
are no uprights at the ends of the field, eliminat-
ing attempts for field goals and the kick for a try
for point after touchdown. The try must be at-
tempted by passing or running. Experience to
date tends to show that passing plays are pre-
dominant. In fact, before a runner can advance the
ball beyond the line of scrimmage, there must have
been a lateral pass. This tends to prevent “mass-
ing” of men for a power play wherein injuries are
more likely to occur. A red cloth flag is carried by
each of the players. The flag has a knot in it, four
inches from one end and sixteen inches from the
other. The short end is pulled up under the play—
er’s belt so that the knot is snug against the lower
edge. To “down” a man, it is ncessary to pull the
flag from beneath his belt.

Other notable exceptions to regulation collegiate
rules include: tackling—fifteen yard penalty from
spot of foul and first down; straight-arm or hack-
ing—fifteen yard penalty from spot of previous

491

‘ i  SWEAT
_ 8105569 57/: 570/-

MOISTURE and oils picked up during

normal play often result in a 5%

increase in the weight of a basketball.

This can easily mean a '6-inch error-
on a 10-foot shot—iust 50 times far

enough off for a miss.

This couldn't happen to a Voit Rubber
Covered basketball because it’s mois--
ture proof. Voit balls not only feel

right and play right—they stay right.

Next time ask for the Voit Custom
X320 or the'Voit CBZ—ltheir name

means dependability. A

_ NEW YORK 10, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES n

RECREATION

 

down and loss of down; deliberate touching of own
hag by runner ball carrier, “tucking” of flag, or
any illegal arrangement of flag—w-fifteen yard pen-
alty and loss of down; free substitution.

For further information, add-res: I aim Buckmmz,
Alhambra Reci‘eation Director, 210 North Chapel
Street, Alhambra, California.

An Idea with Possibilities

In Reading, Pennsylvania, The Yarn Carrier,
publication of the3 VVyomissing Industries, is
sponsoring a “So! This Is Reading!” contest to
help bring some interesting facts and local color to
light. All contestants need to do is to uncover
some strangembut true—“Believe It or Noddities”
about Reading, its people, superstitions, history,
customs, politics and the like.

Forfeits

Add zest to your old social games by introduc-
ing forfeits—those goodnatured, often comical pun—
ishments put upon players who make mistakes in
the game. Anyone who has to pay a forfeit gives
up some article which must be redeemed at the end
of the game by doing what he is commanded to
do by the “judge.” Some of the more common
forfeits, as listed by the Los Angeles Recreation

Department, are :

1. Blow out a candle blindfolded.

2. Tell the fortune of each player.

Sing a song.

Make a speech.

Speak a piece.

Play on the piano.

. Kiss your own shadow.

. Stand on a chair, as a statue, in whatever posi-
tion each player may place you.

9. Guess one of three unseen actions performed

behind your back.
10. Imitate some animal.

mvewew

Moniker Bingo

An informal game of wide popularity in over—
seas American Red Cross clubs, this has all the
aspects of a sure-fire social mixer. At the door,
each guest signs his name to a slip of paper which
is tossed into a large bowl. Then he is given a
paper designed on the conservative lines of our old
friend, the bingo card, and having twenty-five
blank squares. His job is to fill each square with
the name of someone present—Ha different name in
each square. Then comes the big drawing of the
names in the bowl. Each person acknowledges as
his name is called and the rest check his name if
they have it on their card. 'The first person to have
live names in a line wins as in Bingo.

lANUARY 1948

  

  

DIAMOND
SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
O

Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits
Diamond Super Ringer Shoes
Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes

Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Staltes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

DULUTH, MINN.

4610 GRAND AVENUE

Now Available!

A Guide for Planning Facilities
for Athletics. Recreation. Phys-
ical and Health Education

A composite guide of 125 pages deveIOped by 65
authorities in a National Facilities Conference spon-
sored by fourteen national agencies and associations.

For school superintendents, their boards. park and
recreation leaders, health and physical education
administrators and supervisors, architects, engineers.
and other civic and professional leaders interested
in functional planning of modern facilities.

Price $1.50 postpaid

Order from

American Association for Health.

Physical Education,and Recreation
|20| |6th St., N.W.I Washington 6. D. C.

or

The Athletic Institute
209 South State StreetI Chicago 4. Illinois

 

493

  

, . . . _ . . _ .I

Safety in Coasting

Question—I have been asked to discuss at a
Parent-Teacher’s meeting coasting in winter,
under the general topic, “Juvenile Protec-
tion.”

This city has a definite problem as there are
many hills Within the limits and no parks
available for coasting. Nothing has been done
to control coasting or to direct it to certain
areas.

Will you give me any information or plans
that other cities use to protect their youth
in this type of recreation?

Answer—VV e are glad to pass on to you the fol-
lowing information from our files concerning the
policies of other communities.

Oswego, New York, reported that it has been
superviSng coasting for youngsters from three to
ten p.m. Safety is assured by having a starter on
the top of a hill which has been set aside for that
purpose. This prevents one of the most common
causes of accidents—that of one sled starting too
soon behind another or catching up with another
because it is very heavily loaded. Barriers are set
up at intersections so as to eliminate the possibility
of traffic coming into the area and also to' prevent
any sleds from going off into these intersections.

Portland Maine, which in past years has set
aside a great many streets for coasting, is gradu—
ally cutting down on the number of these coasting
areas and is providing coasting facilities in parks

and on school playgrounds because of constantly

increasing traffic problems. On the streets in which
coasting is allowed, however, the recreation de-

494

 

Questions on—

    
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
  

partment places a fifty-foot belt of sand across the
street at the foot of a hill in order to prevent sleds
from running into traffic.

Montclair, New Jersey, in past winters has set
aside five streets for coasting and police are as-
signed to see that no cars use these streets and
that the youngsters do not use other thoroughfares.

Ely, Minnesota, reports show that various hills
are set aside for coasting and signs are posted in
many Of the sections not only advertising the
coasting areas but also calling the youngsters’ at-
tention to the fact that other streets are not to be
so used. It has developed a successful safety pro-
gram by enlisting the support of school boys and
girls. These youngsters are organized to super-
vise coasting and act as starters, divert traffic,
enforce safety precautions, and the like.

Mount Vernon, New York, has a city ordinance
setting aside nine streets for coasting. It carries
liability. insurance to cover this activity.

Cincinnati, Ohio, used a very successful method
to determine which streets to set aside for coast—-
'ing. It issued notes to parents and distributed
them through the PTA and women’s clubs askin
the parents to let them know where their childre
coasted and what streets they would recommen
for safe coasting. It mentioned a few of the point
to be kept in mind in deciding whether a stree
should be set aside for coasting. Some of thes
points were:

I. The streets should have a fair slope and en
by going slightly up hill at the base so as to pro
Vide a natural end to the coasting.

2. There should be no or very few intersection

3. There should be no main artery of trafii
near by.

4. The coasting street should be near the hom
school and neighborhood.

RECREATIO

The mothers c00perated wholeheartedly, and as
a result, safe coasting areas were set aside in vari-
ous sections of the city.

East Orange, New jersey, provides coasting on
its playgrounds and has provided a sled slide
which can be put away in the summertime but
which extends down the front of the grandstand in
the winter. This slide, of course, is very popular.
Many other cities provide similar slides using nat-
ural hills on the playground or extending the slides
from a grandstand, stadium or building of some
sort.

In setting aside coasting areas, certain important
points come out of these experiences:

I. Barriers and road blocks at intersections are
not always adequate becauSe they are frequently
removed or stolen.

2. Sanding such areas and- placing leaders at
those points—whether such leaders be school chil-
dren, recreation leaders or police—will eliminate
the possibilty of cross traffic.

3. Sanding the bottom of the coasting area is
an excellent way of preventing sleds from going
into unsupervised and dangerous territory.

4. Dangerous hills should be sanded so as to

prevent unauthorized coasting. Safe hills should'

be roped off and coasting on them should be super-
vised.

5. Attractive artificial slides and coasting areas
should be provided on school and city playgrounds
and in parks as adequately as possible.

6. Safety in coasting should be emphasized and
taught in the schools, and the youngsters should
I lave a part in carrying out such rules.

{ 7. COOperation of parents should be secured
through wide publicity by radio, newspapers, and
through PTA and other organized groups.

Accent on Skiing

Question—Can you refer me to any published
Iinformation relating to technical aspects of
Ideveloping ski runs, trails and tows? Possi-
bly something of the kind is available through
some of the equipment manufacturers but, if
so, we have not learned of it here.

Answer—The New York State Conservation De-
partment has been very active in the development
of winter sports areas and, we are sure, will be
able to share its information with you. I

The National Park Service, Merchandise Mart,
Chicago, Illinois, has a recreation study section.
which has a winter sports specialist. We suggest
that you get in touch with this organization for
material available and requesting particularly a

ANUARY 1948

copy of the bibliography on winter sports prepared
around 1939 by Mr. E. B. Ballard.

\Ve also suggest that you get in touch with the
Massachusetts State Department of Education. It
has compiled a good deal of information on skiing
and skating from the point of view of groups that I
are planning areas and facilities and teaching tech-
niques. .

The \Nestern Massachusetts Winter Sports
Council at Amherst, Massachusetts, has always
been a source of information on winter sports
areas and we suggest that you write to Mr. Law-
rence E. Briggs. We are sure that this Council
has developed many mimeographed bulletins on
such subjects as ski tows and the like.

The National Ski Association of America, the
governing body of United States skiing, may be
reached by writing to Box 33, Barre, Massachu-
setts. This Association issues the American Ski
Annual which may be obtained from the publisher,
W. T. Eldred, Hanover, New Hampshire, and is
priced at $1.50. _

Mr. Minot Dole at 415 Lexington Avenue. New
York City, is the Chairman of the National Ski
Patrol System—-the primary concern of which is
the safety of skiers—and he would therefore be‘
concerned with the designs and layouts of courses,
tows, trails, and the like. It might be a good idea
to get in touch with him as well as with the others
mentioned above.

The Columbian Rope Company, Auburn, New
York, has a pamphlet called “Design and Con-
struction of Ski—Tows” which will be sent upon
request.

Mr.- Ballard has suggested that we emphasize
the importance of going to a private firm of pro-
fessional specialists if you are interested in con-
structing ski jumps or tows. They represent tech-
nical problems and from the point of view of
safety, the best possible professional help should
be secured.

 

The Spice of Life '

“Parents and children, just because they belong
to the same family, won’t enjoy the same things all
the time. The home should also furnish the oppor-
tunity and a mutual respect for individual enjoy- .
merits,” says Catherine RObinson Reed in an arti-
cle “Playing Together as a Family” (Childhood
Education). “Puppetry, crafts, magic and listen-
ing to good ‘music are activities which have been
particularly successful in furnishing individual
pleasure, yet unifying family interests.”

495

  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  

WHATEVER THE SPORT

7:2; Weaver-Wintark 7”

TOP pmromvumcr: / 

Only WEAVER-WI NTARK process of construc-

tion can give a ball such phenomenal Accuracy
and Top Performance.

. . . and only WEAVER-WINTARK quality
can add such a phenomenal life of service to

a ball under any court or weather condition.

Demand the Ball of The Hour—look for
the WW stamped on every Ball.

{WINTARH POLICY WINS FOR DEALERS
Write for Catalog

WEAVER WINTARK SALES CF

Original Pioneers of America's Foremost Athletic Equipment
ROY '71 ' QHAMOK

  

. Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EH LERS
Social Recreation

I
ANNE LIVINGSTON

I Social Recreation
II

FRANK STAPLES '
Arts and Crafts

I GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

  

 

h

i ‘ NUARY 1948

January, February and March

Elkhart, Indiana
January 26-30

Wichita Falls, Texas
February 2-6

Texarkana, Texas
February 9-13

Austin, Texas
February 16-20

San Antonio, Texas
February 23-27

Temple, Texas
March 1-5

Houston, Texas
March 15-19

Lynn, Massachusetts
January 5-9

Wilmette, Illinois
January 12-16

Highland Park, Illinois
January 19-23

Evanston, Illinois
January 26-30

Columbia, Missouri
February 2-6

Evansville, Indiana
February 9-13

Arlington, Virginia
February 24-26

Clearwater, Florida
January 5-9

Charlotte, North Carolina
January 19-23

Savannah, Georgia
January 26-30

Ft. Pierce, Florida
February 2-6

Gainesville, Florida
February 9-13

Miami, Florida
February 16-27

State of Florida
March 8-April 23

Tallahassee, Florida
January 5-16

Jacksonville, Florida

I February 2-13

West Palm Beach, Florida,
February 16-27

Battle Creek, Michigan
January 19—February 13

Newburgh, New York
February 23-March 5

John Higgins, Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Don Greer, Y.M.C.A.

Mrs. Wayne Windle, 1122 Main Street

B. S. Shefiield, Acting Director of Recreation
Miss Lou Hamilton, Superintendent of Recreation
W. E. Routh, Superintendent of Recreation

Arnold R. Moser, Superintendent of Recreation

J. B. Hurst, Director, Department of Physical
Education, Y.M.C.A.

Russell A. Perry, Director of Recreation

Howard Copp, Director of Recreation

Charles P. Byrnes, Superintendent of Recreation

Wilma D. Haynes, Stephens College

S. J. Medlicott, General Secretary, Y.M.C.A.

Miss Ruth Phillips, Director, Arlington Recreation
' Center, 3700 Lee Highway

Eddie Moore, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Alice Suiter, Assistant Director of Recreation,
City Hall

H. S.,Bounds, Superintendent of Recreation
Mrs. Jeanne Macaro, Director, St. Lucie County

Recreation Board

Dwight Hunter, County Director of Physical
Education and Recreation
Peter Roberts, Superintendent of Recreation

Dean B. C. Riley, University of Florida, Gainesville

Miss Mary Kate Miller, Florida State University
N. L. Mallison, Superintendent of Recreation

Ben York, Superintendent of Recreation

John Wood, Director, Hamblin Community Center,
242 Hamblin Avenue

Glenn Hines, Community Workers Association,
191 Water Street

497

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
    

BaSketba“ .
 baCkSlopS

to suit any building condition

Engineered Porter Basketball Backstop
apparatus spans the needs of schools and
colleges. There is a design to harmonize
best with your gymnasium’s functional
plan . . . Wall-braced, Window-span,
Balcony-type, Swing~up, Folding, *Hoist-
away, *Rollaway or Stadium models . . .
Porter has them all. _

And Porter has the engineering talent
to help you decide which type of backstop
fits best into your architecture—either be-
fore or after the building is built. Usually .I
stock backstop equipment is adaptable,
and money saved; but Porter engineers
are qualified to recommend for the most |
specialized application.

Send for the 1948 Porter Basketball I
Backstop catalog, or write us for consul- I
tation without obligation. _ I‘

THE FAMOUS PORTER *HOISTAWAY It hoists to

the ceiling to convert gymnasium into an auditorium--
or iust "to clear the air" for other gym activities.

 

Headquarters for fan-shaped banks

Porter can ship at once all-steel fan-shaped
basketball banks. OFficial specifications, and
Porter’s exclusive rigid construction. Rectangular
plywood banks, too. Goals and twine nets for
all types of banks.

*Registered U. S. Patent Office

THE 1. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EOUlPMENl

  
  

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* $332?"sz T
Rea. U. 5. Fat. 05. ‘

 

498 RECREATIO

t Headquarters . . .
Willard C. Sutherland

 

UICK, DARK AND genial Willard C. Sutherland
Q is a familiar figure around the National Rec-
reation Association as well as in the recreation
field at large. Everybody knows him, or should,
for he is in charge of, and the moving spirit be-
hind, the National Recreation Association’s effiw
ciently run and far-reaching Recreation Personnel
Service. Many are the men and women whom this
service has satisfactorily placed in recreation jobs
throughout the country. i
In neat, business-like files behind his desk are
catalogued the names and experience records of
over 6000 recreation workers. These—the result
of hard work on the part of his office, local execu»
tives and other members of the Association’s staff
—are listed in classified groups.

“What we need in recreation work is quality,”
states Mr. Sutherland. He adds, rather wistfully,
“Selection is complicated because, “unfortunately,
human qualities are hard to identify and define.
Frequently they seem to defy analysis—and yet
they must receive careful attention and considera-
tion. VJ e must have a certain amount of idealism
in recreation, combined with good, practical judg-
ment.”

A great majority of the people listed in his files
have been interviewed by Mr. Sutherland, person-
ally, either at the Association’s headquarters office
or in the field. Some interviews are brief, some

JANUARY 1948

 

are long, but all are unhurried. He says, “A strong
service outlook must be maintained throughout, for
there are many ways in which we can be helpful to
applicants. It is our reSponsibilty to take enough
time to give information, to get information, to
form a judgment, and to make a friend.” He has
vigorously impressed upon his staff the importance
of helpful and friendly interviews.

During the year of 1946 alone, 1,143 confer-
ences were held with outside people in the head-
quarters offices. He attributes this figure, which
was double that of the year before, in part to the
large number of men and women returning from
war services and desiring to be placed in peacetime
jobs. At.that time personnel from the Army,
Navy, USO and other wartimes agencies were
interviewed as a result of highly concentrated, spe-
cial recruiting efforts. To date, no count of the
number of 1947 interviews is available.

Mr. Sutherland, or “Woody” as his friends call
him—speaks also, and with understandable satis-
faction, of the great value of the Association’s per-
sonnel files when the war broke out and the files
were thrown open to war agencies in order to meet
the emergency personnel demands of those organi—
zations.

Projects of the Recreation Personnel Service
cover four major areas of work: recruiting; place-
ment; counseling and correspondence service.
Though recruiting. is but one phase of the work,
“Woody” is keenly alive to the fact that it is the
responsibility of the entire recreation movement, of
every member of the national staff and every local
executive to keep on the alert for candidates. He
states emphatically, “We, in recreation work, must
multiply ourselves.” It is interesting to note here
that the number of full-time, year-round Public
recreation jobs have doubled in the last twelve
years, increasing from 2,325 to 5,147.

Willard Sutherland’s awareness of the impor-
tance of recruiting dates back to the days when,
finishing work at Drake University, he enthusias-
tically made a bee-line for the National Recreation
School for Professional Training and thereafter
joined the staff of the National Recreation Associ-
ation. He immediately took on the recruiting end
of the work for the school and apprentice fellow-—
ships. In the early days, he helped with the Asso-
ciation’s campaign for promoting recreation work
in various sections of the country and, until shortly
before the war, was engaged in carefully planned,
special recruiting projects. Somewhere along the
way, he fitted into his busy schedule time for tak-
ing the training at New York University for
Personnel Specialists.

499

500

 

When does a man start slipping?

The moment comes to every man.

The moment when he realizes that he
isn’t the man he used to be . . .

That the days of his peak earning power
are over . . .

That some clay not so very far away some
younger man will step into his shoes.

When does this time come? It varies.

with many things.

But of one thing you can be sure. It
will come to you as surely as green apples
get ripe—and fall off the tree.

' Is this something to worry about? Well,
yes. But . . . constructively. For that can
lead you to save money systematically.

What’s the best way to do this? By buying
U. S. Savings Bonds . . . automatically.
Through the Payroll Savings Plan. Or the
Bond-A-Month Plan at your checking ac-
count bank.

Either method is practically foolproof.
It’s automatic.You don’t put it off. There’s
no “I’ll start saving next month”—no
“Let’s bust the piggy bank.”

And you get back four dollars, at ma-
turity, for every three invested.

So why not take this one step now that will
make your future so much brighter?

Get on the Payroll Savings Plan—or
the Bond-A-Month Plan—today.

_S_u_r§ saving because it’s automatic—U.S. Savings Bonds

 

 

Contributed by this magazine in (so-operation

with the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

RECREATION

 

And to get the right person and the right job to-
gether, thus serving them both—as well as the
local community and the recreation movement in
general—brings him a satisfaction that could not
be reckoned in dollars and cents. He watches the
outcome of such placements with lively interest.
“I believe,” he says, “that the most important re-
sponsibility of an executive is the development of
people. All that we accomplish, all that we get
done is through people.”

Books Received

 

Book of Nature Hobbies, The, 'by Ted Pettit. Didier,
publishers, New York. $3.50.

Boys’ Prayers, by Robert Merrill Bartlett. Association
Press, New York. $1.25.

End of Your Stunt Hunt, The, Iby Helen and.IArry Eisen—
berg. Published by the authors, Nashville, Tennessee.

$.50.
Exercise During Convalescence, by George T. Stafford.

A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $4.00.
Golden Book of Poetry, The, edited .by Jane Werner.
Simon and Schuster, Incorporated, New York, $1.50.
Golden Christmas Book, The, compiled by Gertrude
Crampton. Simon and Schuster, Incorporated, New
YOrk. $1.50.
Historic .Models of Early America, by C. J. Maginley.

Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York. $2.50. .

Methods in Physical Education, by Hilda Clute Kozman,
Rosalind Cassidy, Chester 0. Jackson. W. B. Saun-
ders Company, Philadelphia, London. $4.25.

Oji‘icial Basketball Guide, 1947-48. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $.50.

Recreation Through Competition, by Ernest L. Dam-

kroger. Association Press, New York. $2.50. .
Second Century Horizons for YMCA Work with Boys.

Association Press, New York. $1.50.

To Secure These Rights. United States, Government
Printing Office, VVas-hington, D. C. $1.00.

Walt Disney’s Bongo. Simon and Schuster, Incorporated,
New York. $1.00.

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles at 2
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Scholastic Coach, October 1947
How to Start a Rifle Club, C. R. Rogers
{Vation’s Schools, November 1947

How to Get a Good School Board, William C. Heugh

Schoolhouse Planning for Growth and Community
Service

For Year—Round Recreation, V. C. Mason

Childhood Education, November 1947
A Festival of Thankfulness, Grace Van Dyke More
From Sea to Shining Sea, Administrators Handbook for

A career in life insurance
selling can be both profitable
and satisfying . . . with your
income limited only by your
own efforts. Many of our rep-

resentatives earn $4,000 to
$9,000 a year, and more! We
invite you to send for our
scientific Aptitude Test, which
measures your qualifications
for this interesting work.

If you qualify, you may be-
come eligible for our 3-year
on-the-job training course,
with a 2-year compensation
plan which will not make you
dependent upon commissions.
After that, the Mutual Life-
time Plan offers liberal com-
missions, and substantial re-

tirement income at 65. Write
today to Room 1112.

THE MUTUAL lIFE

INSURANCE COMPANY of NEW YORK

34 Nassau Street Alexander E. Patterson
New York 5; N Y President

 

 

Intergroup Education, American Association of School

Administrators, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

National Parent-Teacher, October 1947 ‘
The Fun That Frees, Ruth Garber Ehlers
Nation’s Schools, October 1947

Will Serve Community Purposes, James D. Darnall
and Wallace S. Anderson

One Man Folds It. One Minute Does It.

The 1948 Nissen A|I~0ne Trampoline (Reg. U. 5. Pat.
Off.) wheels away to jiffy storage. Write for Free Litera-
ture and Prices on All Trampoline Models.

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE CO.
200 A Avenue NW

   
    
  

Cedar Rapids, Iowa

 
 

lANUARY 1948 501

Safety
in
Winter Skiing

Now that winter's here with its promise of snow,
the recreation department of Minneapolis, Minne-
s‘ota, a firm believer in the old adage, “An ounce
of prevention is worth a pound of cure,” has pre-
pared a few safety suggestions for ski enthusiasts.

I. Avoid skiing with faulty equipment—be sure
binding, skis and poles are in good condition.

2. Choose a hill to ski on that is suitable to your
ability and has good snow.

3. Learn controlled skiing—never attempt feats
that are beyond your ability—learn first how
to check your speed and Stop.

4. When walking with ski equipment, carry the
poles fastened together with the points forward
and toward the ground.

0 Do not carry them over your shoulder.

0 Avoid making sudden turns which might
cause you to thrust the tip of the pole or skis
into someone.

5. When using a tow, beware of loose flying
clothing such as scarfs, open jackets, etc., and
take the proper grip of the r0pe.

o If there is no one to guide you at the bottom
of the tow be sure you allow enough space
between you and the fellow ahead so in the
event that he falls, you will have time to get
out of his way.

6. “Track” is the ski term for clearing the path.
If you hear the word, get out of the way; if
someone is in your path, call “track.”

Clothing—several thin layers of woolen cloth-
ing give the best protection against cold.

\I

0 Boots should lit properly—be big enough
to allow for several pair of socks, tight
enough to prevent rubbing blisters or sprain-
ing an ankle.

o Mittens—wool ones worn under a leather
or gabardine pair.

8. For frozen parts—do not rub or use snow.
Warm frozen parts very gradually (body heat
is best). i

502

    
  
  
         

 

 

‘
:1-

. 1's! w...

E '3' '.:h-, I'll) H

 

l'
Every Sport:

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

r”! FINIS’ I” I”! FIELD I
MANUFAC'UIING COMFANY l

  

5!. LOUIS a M

 

in every field of sport in Proiu
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Bose-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Goldsmilh Spar}!
Equipmeni is recognized as a hall-
marli of quality and unvarying
pcriorrnancc.

 may” ymm .7216. -

1

J2“)

' soul 7 ’7
"'_-_;' " .17T’f.lN!1A'*‘I is. ruin

RECREATION

New Publications in the Leisure Time Field

 

' Footnotes on Nature

By John Kieran. Doubleday and Company, Garden City,
New York. $3.00.

'JDHN KIERAN, as anyone who ever listened to Informa-
l tion, Please is aware, is the man who seems to know
.almost everything about anything. In this recently pub-
'1ished book, he follows his John Kieran’s Nature Notes
with another delightful field book which is a combination
'of essays and useful information. From the walks that he
lionce enjoyed in Van Courtland Park, he has gathered
“together lore of the out-of-doors, mixed it with curious
sidelights on the personalities of great men he has known,
and his adventures with people who came to walk with
'him. As the reader follows along, he, too, comes to be-
lieve, with the author, that “anything can happen in
nature.”

r Fireside Book‘ ot Folk Songs

Selected and edited by Margaret Bradford Boni. Ar-
ranged for the piano by Norman Lloyd. Simon and
Schuster, New York. $3.95.

ERE, IN BEAUTIFUL format, are gathered the songs
that have held first place in .the hearts of many people
or many years. Every page in the book is a delight of

- elody and color. So that the songs may be sung around

he piano at 'home—or in any gathering—«simple arrange-

ents for piano and voice have been especially prepared
or this volume. Also, to enrich the experience of sing-

g, the songs are prefaced with a fascinating commentary
their origin and background. This is a book for every—

e—book lovers, song lovers, folk song enthusiasts and

Ist plain homefolks. If the melody of some old song

unts you, we guarantee that you’ll find it between these

Jvers!

    
   
   
    
   
  
     
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
 

Methods in Physical Education

ilda Clute Kozman, Rosalind 'Cassidy and Chester 0.
Jackson. W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. $4.25.
‘ ESIGNED AS A textbook for the preparation of teachers
of physical education in secondary schools, emphasis
placed on the importance of teaching physical educa-
n as a part of the total educational process. The pros-
tive teacher must know himself, his interests, talents
 fitness for the particular teaching task he has chosen.
- must know his pupils as individuals, their family asso-
tions and responsibilties, their other non—school rela-
ships and activities. The responsibilty of the physical
cation teacher in community life is also brought out.
re are chapters on building the program, organizing
uction units, lesson planning and other practical
ses of the total teaching task, but the chief value of
'book lies in its attention to the background essentials
ich are so often neglected in textbooks. Physical recre-
on is covered here from a realistic rather than too

* NUARY 1948

\

ambitious a point of view. The limitations of the physical
education teacher in the recreation field, as well as his
opportunities, are pointed out. “Physical education teach-
ers cannot take responsibility for the entire recreational
program of a school. They may be assigned to do so,
but the needs of boys and girls in this area of living are
too varied for them to succeed alone. The fields of physi-
cal education and recreation are like two circles which
overlap with an area common to both.”

Plants—A Guide to Plant Hobbies

By Herbert S. Zim. Harcourt, Brace and Company, New

York. $3.50.
PLANT ACTIVITIES CAN make fascinating hobbies, even

for the amateur. Mr. Zim does not require technical

knowledge of his readers. He gives them an enthusiastic
account of plant life, and leads them into hobbies ranging
from the better enjoyment of walks and hikes to the
making of their own identifications, finding and recogniz-
ing a rare species, and conducting plant experiments. He
demands no elaborate equipment, but opens their eyes to
the amazing world of green around them. An unusual
feature of the book is 'a geographical list of places in the
United States which are of special interest to the plant
enthusiast. Another tine feature is a bibliography for
each section of the book.

Nature leaders and nature lovers will find this not only
enjoyable, but full of ideas and suggestions for projects
of their own.

(1

New Encyclopedia of Sports

Frank G. Menke. A. S. Barnes and Company, Incorpdr-
ated, New York. $5.00.

HIS NEW, COMPLETELY revised and enlarged edition of

the original volume contains brief historical references
of some 100 sports and games. It is, to large extent, a
sports record book, but it also contains a summary of
community recreation activities for 1944—the last year
for which figures were available at the time that the
revision was undertaken. Mr. Menke estimates that
$3,000,000,000 were spent in 1946 on sports athletics. Of
this amount $800,000,000 is credited to angling, $450,000,-
000 to firearms and $400,000,000 to admission fees of
spectators to sports events. The total is $750,000,000 more
than the average during the war years, but $1,000,000,000
less than the average from 1938 to 1941 inclusive. The
author estimates that attendance expenditures were higher
in 1946 than in any previous year, but that expenditures
for participation recreation were low because of the in-
ability to secure equipment and the difiiculties of trans-
portation-to and lodging at resort and vacation centers.
He believes that if these difii-culties had not been present,
expenditures would have increased to $5,000,000,000. This
encyclopedia contains much material of interest to recrea-
tion workers as well as to promoters and writers of pro-
fessional sports.

503

Youth After Conflict

By Goodwin Watson. Association Press, New York.
$4.00.
DR. WATSON’S BOOK is the result of what is obviously
an exhaustive study of the effects of three major
wars on the youth of the country. It devotes the major
part of its attention to what is happening to youth now
and what social changes of today will affect youth Of the
1950’s. It is a valuable contribution to the current volume
of literature on postwar youth and should serve as a
helpful guide and reference work to all who are working
with youth in the field Of recreation or any other phase
of youth activity and interest. Its thesis is that war is
not the major cause of changes in youth attitudes, beliefs
and actions; war has only accentuated and stimulated
trends observable before war periods which were due to
social, economic and other evolutions of peacetime eras.
Chapter VI presents some seventy characteristics of life
in the near future which will have a definite effect on
youth in the next decade. Six of these relate to the use
of leisure time. Dr. Watson agrees with so many others
that leisure is bound to increase substantially. He also
prophesies that there 'will :be a great increase in public
recreation provisions; wider use of schools for recrea-
tion; a continuation of youth centers; increase in “mod-
erate” smoking and drinking and dissipation because of
the combination of money and leisure to spend it. He
feels that there will be a desire for “private” leisure, for
settling down, for hunting, fishing, hiking and other
nature activities. Travel will also increase. in popularity.
On the whole, Dr. Watson believes that there will be no
youth movement as such, but that youth will still tend to
distinguish itself from adults and children by distinctive
dress, slang, modes Of dancing and group activities.

In summing it all up, Dr. Watson says “Adults and
youth will both be modernists in the 1950’s. There will be
differences and changes but they will be relatively small.
. . . Young people will .be at home in the world . . . They
will be sure Of themselves without being defiant.”

Leadership “for Horizon ,Club

Camp Fire Girls, Incorporated, New YOrk. $.35.

THIS PAMPHLET WILL be helpful to club leaders, par-

ticularly those working with girls groups. It discusses
the questions of “who, what, why, when, where and how”
in program planning and will be particularly important
when combined with the Horizon C tub Book which was
reviewed in the August 1947 issue Of RECREATION, and
which is compiled for use by the girls themselves.

Good, practical, simple material on club leadership is
not easy to find. This pamphlet, while designed primarily
for Camp Fire use, is equally helpful for girls clubs in
the recreation program.

I946 Yearbook,

Park and Recreation Progress

National Conference on State Parks, \Vashington, D. C.

$2.00.
HIS, THE Twenty-fifth Anniversary Yearbook of the
National Conference on State Parks, contains a brief

history of the state park movement, sketches of some Of'

its outstanding leaders, and short statements Of the

504

growth of the state park movement in the different state
It also includes a section listing all state parks and thei
guest accommodations prepared by the National Par
Service.

Swimming Pool Data
and Reference Annual, I947

Hoffman-Harris Incorporated, New York. $3.00.

HIS ISSUE WILL be Of special interest to communitie

planning the construction Of pools because Of it
articles: “Financing Public Pools,” and “Swimming PO
Costs, Operating Expenses and Returns.” The latter con
tains a listing of pools in communities listed alphabeti
cally by states, giving date of construction, cost, siz
method Of financing, cost Of operation, returns, charge
and attendance. The 1947 annual also has a long articl
“Basic Principles Of Pool Design and Construction,
which contains a design for a circular wading pool, .
memorial park pool, two plans for municipal pools, .
small town pool, country club pool, and two bathhous
floor plans. Articles on poliomyelitis will also ‘be Of in
terest to recreation departments.

 

Designs for Outdoor Living

Bulletin 399-A, July 1947, Extension Service, Colorad
Agricultural and Mechanical College, Fort Collin
Colorado.

HIS THIRTY-TWO PAGE booklet is a very helpful refer

ence for park and recreation workers responsible to
providing facilities for picnics and outings. It contain
statements of principles, photographs and plans for out
door fireplaces, picnic tables, game facilities, water Suppl
toilet and garbage facilities, signs, road barriers and she]
ter houses. It should be particularly helpful to individual
and groups in rural areas and small communities wh
cannot call on technicians to advise them.

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDwARD C. BENCH. Englewood, N. J.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCIIER, New York N. Y.
HENRY L. CORBE‘I‘T, Portland, re.

MRS, ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Sugar Hill, N. H.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, NY.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLI KEN, Au sta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, oodbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y. _
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco Calif.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York,  Y.
J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

RECREATI O

Plans for the Coming Year

We all know that do-si-doing, playing games or gathering around the piano for a song
or two isn’t just limited to Christmas time or planned especially for the celebrating of
the New Year. Recreation is part of our everyday living—all year round. Therefore,
you’ll be glad to know that the National Recreation Association will continue to provide
you with how-to-do, what-to-do suggestions and other useful information. Here are just
a few of the many diverse publications available from the Association to serve you dur-

ing 1948.
Arts and Crafts for the Recreation Leader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$l.50

A comprehensive book with illustrations, general information, a project outline and a section giving
directions for making various articles.

Barn Dance Returns, The . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Complete plans of a rollicking and fun-filled old-fashioned barn dance.

Christmas Book, The . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
An illustrated gold mine of information which includes music, drama, parties and social activities.
Community and Assembly Singing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60

Practical suggestions for making the most of community singing.
Community Recreation Buildings as War Memorials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00

Suggestions for planning, financing, constructing and operating community recreation buildings.
Contains detailed information concerning several existing buildings and Hoor plans of seven build-
ings.

Conduct of Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

Playground leadership, activities, planning the program, administration, equipment and supplies
are included in this guide for playground workers.

11% Plus—Recreation for Older People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
This segment of our population needs its recreation as much—or even more so-than many other
groups.

For the Storyteller . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
Stories to tell and how to tell them effectively.

Games for Quiet Hours and Small Spaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
More than 160 games and stunts that can be played almost anytime, anywhere.

How to Produce a Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

The steps involved in play production—from choosing the play to the final check-up—are outlined,
with suggestions for makeup, costuming, lighting and scenery.

Nature in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
Unusual nature projects in camping, handcraft, games, dramatics, music, dancing, and aquatics.
Party Book, The . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.00

Informality and spontaneity are the keynotes of these parties for all sorts of occasions, big and
small, and all types of groups.

Picnic Book, The . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.25
Everything you want to know about a picnic, plus suggestions for other outdoor occasions.

Recreation and the Church . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
A guide for leaders of church recreation.

Recreation Areas—Their Design and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.00

Containing 169 illustrations, diagrams and plans of areas and buildings, this volume is a practical
guide to the planning of playgrounds, playfields and athletic fields.

Rural Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75

Indoors, outdoors, on the farm, at the schoolhouse—there’s fun for young and old at rural dances,
parties, country fairs, neighborly get-togethers.

St. Valentine’s Day (MP 61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Activities galore for this colorful day.

—.-—-———-

Should auld acquaintance  f0 , '
And never bro? to mind?

Should auld acquaintance «be forgot,
And days of said [am cyan?

 

