 

Contents

 

September 1948

Planning for Living, (Editorial)

by Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Letter from President Truman . . . . . . . . 243
Recreation Goes to College . . . . . . . . . . . 244
The Library—Resource for Recreation,

by Clarence S. Paine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 247
Problems in Recreation,

by Harlan G. Metcalf . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
We Want a Club, by Dorothy Richardson 252
Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
City’s Photo Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Recreation and Athletic Activities

Stamps, by Harold Hainfeld . . . . . . . . 258
At Your Service—30th National

Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Evening Speakers at General Sessions. . 261

Internationally Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . 262

National Recreation Association Serves
Around the World (Map) . . . . . . . . . 264

First Woman President . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275

See You in Omaha!

30th National Recreation Congress

September 26-30

Hotel Fo'ntenelle Omaha, Nebraska

George W. Braden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
George Herman Ruth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 281
Women’s Activities, by Lou Hamilton. . . 282
Taps for the ’48 Olympics . . . . . . . . . . . 283

Small Towns

The Old Order Changeth,
by J. D. Robins, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269

Financing the Small Recreation Program 272

In Charlottesville, Virginia, by Coolie Verner
In Dickinson, North Dakota, by Art Bell

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . .. 279

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Authors in This Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Recreation Institutes. . . . .Insitle Back Cover

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted to: Syracuse University
Alumni News for photograph, page 244; Wisconsin University,
page 245; New Jersey Department of Conservation and Devel-
opment for top picture, page 253; Paul Parker Photos for
lower, page 253; San Francisco Chronicie, pages 256-257.

ON THE COVER: End of Summer. Cooler September days lure
young and aid to enjoy clear mountain air. Heart Lake in
the Adirondacks attracts many campers and hikers in the fall.

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation
Association of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, N. Y.; is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-
class matter June 12, 1929, at the Post Oche in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1948, by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED 1N THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-TWO, NUMBER SIX

 

PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Recreation

September 1948

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

Planning

for

S- FACTORY IS PLANNED for maximum production.

A home should be planned for living.

What shall be the center for the family living?

Living

play room?

Shall it be the dining room table, the iireplace, the piano, the children’s

There is nothing so good that it cannot be made a little better by plan-

ning for it.

There may well be no room for the fireplace, even for the piano, if
everything else is planned for first and then as a last thought the ques-
tion is asked, can we squeeze in a fireplace?

.-—-——

If we want to live in our home it is of first im-
portance to plan it for living.

Just so—just so.

And if we want to plan our days and our years
for living—

Shall we put all our best hours into hard, grind-
ing work and then, when we are dog-tired and there
is very little of our real, best selves left, turn to
music, sport?

Is living something to be crowded into fnagmen-
tary spots when a person is too utterly gone for
anything else?

With the shorter working week, the shorter work-
ing day, with a large number of mechanical slaves
working for each one of us to help in doing the
work of the world, why not save some of our fresh-
est hours, the time when we are most fully alive, for
enjoying beauty, music, sport, comradeship—-for
really living?

Recreation when one is too tired to do anything
else is not truly recreation, is not even so effective

in fitting one for work—if one still regards work as
the sole end and purpose of existence.

The right use of leisure, said Aristotle long ago,
is the purpose of education.

If we want at the end of our many years, before
we leave this world, to feel that the hours of life
have been rich and truly satisfying, if we Want the
full physical and mental health and well-being that
belongs to those who have inherited the earth,
leisure and living must not be tag ends, crowded—
in parts of a terrific work life, but must be given
an equal place with work, must be something to be
enjoyed when we are all there, when we have our
full powers, when we are rested, when we really
have a desire to enjoy all our faculties, to be all
that we are, to do all that is within our powers.
Recreation that is the frazzled edge of work gives
little of life. .

Yet at the same time all play and no work is
also empty.

‘ The shorter the hours of work and the longer

241

the hours of leisure, the more there has to be a meaning with work. Enough play is a little too

serious note in recreation, the more there has to much. It is better always to have a little play wait-
be a place for service in recreation. ing for the period when there is more time. That
Work and play are two parts of one whole. which is waited for, planned for, is more appreci-

Work means more with play. Play has greater! ated and enjoyed.

And so in planning our cities.
We must plan not only for getting to our work.
We must plan our cities for living if we want to live.

Much evil comes from not recognizing that most men and women
(including ourselves) are so built that they need leisure and living as they
need food, water, air and sleep.

This little children know. If, as men gain maturity, without losing their
maturity they .,can retain the child’s ability to live fully each day; then
their world will become a much easier planet for all.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

MN

“Planning is forethought. It pervades the realm of all human action.
W/hether a man plans a business, a career, a house, or a fishing trip, he

is looking into the future in order to arrange his affairs so that they will

work out to the best advantage. Applied to our everyday world, plan-

ning is nothing but common sense.”

C. EARL MORROW, in Planning Your Community.

 

242 RECREATION

 

243

SEPTEMBER 1948

 

UNIVERSITY AND COLLEGE gates now are flung
wide. The back-to-school movement has be-
gun, and fall schedules are the order of the day.
Among the hordes of youth facing training for the
future, how many are choosing a professional rec-
reation career? How many are aware of the op-
portunities and challenge in this comparatively
young but steadily growing profession?

.As large and small towns, rural areas, civic or-
ganizations—both public and private—more gen—
erally understand the values of a local recreation
program, and make known their needs for pro-
fessional assistance, so grows the nation-wide de-
mand for trained recreation leadership. The rapid
expansion and extension of public tax-supported
systems of community recreation also increases the
call for college graduates with some experience
and post-graduate work, to take over in adminis-
tration, and supervision of staff members, with
placement in systems of public recreation at city,
state, or federal levels of administration.

The rapid expansion of the field of recreation
as a profession, which is not an overnight affair
but has been building gradually through the years
and has been accelerated by the recent war, can
best be illustrated by the fact that undergraduate
recreation majors are today becoming a part of
the curriculum of more and more outstanding col-
leges in this country. Faculties are responding
to the growing need, and to the petitioning of rec-
reation councils and commissions throughout the
land.

We hear of the establishment of new majors
right and left, as for example, that of one univer-
sity which, in response to such a petition, has just
established a new four-year major and minor in
“Community Leadership in Recreation.” The cur-
riculum has been planned by a large inter-college

244

Recreation

Goes to College

committee, not only as a means of producing play-
ground or activity leaders, or preparing students
for rewarding personal participation in leisure-
time pursuits with their attendant valuable results;
but also it was conceived as a way of providing,
to the state, a leadership group generally con-
cerned with the well-being of people, and espe-
cially equipped to lead and aid in the deve10pment
of a satisfying, healthy community life.

This approach implies a curriculum concerned
with broad understanding of fundamental fields,
supplemented by tools to work with in terms of
specific skills, so that understanding will not re-
pose in a vacuum for want of a place and means
of application.

Pursuing this principle, the faculty of this uni-
versity, in consultation with the National Recrea-
tion Association and the State Recreation Council,
constructed a curriculum of one hundred twenty-
four credits, made up of three types of courses:
foundation courses, with emphasis on the_ social
sciences; professional courses, including field
work; and resource, or skill courses.

New recreation undergraduate majors, in the
various schools, vary widely in their scope and
content, and in the method in which they are ad-
ministered. Some of them provide a variety of
basic recreation specialization within another field,
such as that of physical education. It is clear that
preparation for recreation leadership is less stan-
dardized than that for many older, more estab-
lished fields, and it is probably desirable that this
should be so.

In a Western university, for instance, adminis-
tration is under an Administrative Committee on
Group Major in'Recreation. The curriculum is
supervised by a professor of physical education
who is chairman of the committee; and an A.B.A.

RECREATION

' degree is offered. The faculty consists of six peo-
ple, all of whom have had ten to twenty years of
experience in various phases of_ recreation, and who
give part-time to the recreation curriculum.

In a large Eastern university, administration is
under an Inter-Divisional Program of Recreation,
supervised by the chairman. Degrees offered are:
B.S., M.A., Professional Diploma, Ed.D. and
Ph.D. Here one faculty member gives full-time to
the recreation curriculum, his experience including
five years in city‘and collegelrecreation and two in
leadership training. One faculty person gives half-
time, his experience including thirty years in
camping and recreation work; three others give
varying amounts of time.

At one state college, on the other hand, recrea-
tion major courses are administered by the School
of Physical Education and Athletics, and super-
vised by the associate professor in charge of the
recreation curriculum. BS. and MS. degrees in
recreation are offered. Here, too, one person gives
full-time- to recreation, while six others give more
than half-time. All have had many years experi-
ence in physical education and recreation work. It

is interesting too, to note that some colleges offer
BA. and M.A. degrees.

Likewise curriculums vary widely. One college
suggests that students preparing for this field
major in Recreation Administration and Supervi-
sion, and minor in two of the following fields:
sociology, political science, education, physical ed-
ucation; while a minor in Recreation Administra-
tion and Supervision might accompany a major in
any of these fields.

Many faculty groups have planned curriculums
in consultation with the'National Recreation As-
sociation. In the light of this fact, and of the many
requests for information regarding colleges and
universities offering undergraduate majors, the
Association recently sent requests for information
to 1,259 four-year institutions. Brief follow—up
questionnaires were sent to all those reporting
such majors in recreation, requesting specific de-
tails. The information received is summarized in
a report which is now available from Association
offices.* (This is in addition to the material put
out by the N.R.A. in 1945 on essential subjects
for college recreation courses.’r) This summary,

 

*Unalergraduate Curricula in Colleges and Universities, National
Recreation Association. One dollar.

fCollege Training Courses for Recreation Workers. National
Recreation Association, MP Number 319. Ten cents.

of undergraduate nature, is intended only to ap-
prise colleges and universities of the type of
courses being offered elsewhere, and to guide stu-
dents to the institution which will serve their par-
ticular needs and interests.

In general, courses offered as having interest
for the prospective recreation worker include, in
all instances though with varying degrees of em-
phasis, introduction to the principles and methods
of community recreation; all include resource or
skill courses, planning and presentation of a recre-
ation program, study of the place of creative arts
in recreation and in human affairs; foundation
courses in the social sciences, psychology, child
growth and development, and in some cases——
biology and physiology, health education, philoso-
phy, history, group work in recreation; most of
them offer camp leadership, administration, pro-
gram; almost all include field training—that im-
portant learning-by-doing—which varies in type
of assignment and required length of service.

The colleges which sent detailed information
about undergraduate recreation majors in response
to the Association questionnaire are: California——
Chapman College, Los Angeles, College of the
Pacific, Stockton, Mills College, Oakland, San
Francisco State College, San Francisco, San Jose
State College, San Jose, University of California,
Berkeley; Florida—Florida State University, Tal-
lahassee; Illinois——'George 'Williams College, Chi—
cago ; Indiana—Indiana University, Bloomington,
Purdue University, Lafayette, Taylor University,
Upland; Iowa—University of Iowa, Iowa City;
Massachusetts —- Boston University: College of
Physical Education for Women (Sargent), Bos-
ton, Springfield College, Springfield; Michigan——
Michigan State College, East Lansing, Wayne
University, Detroit; Minnesota—University of

The University'of Wisconsin’s Memorial Union Thea-
tre, seating 1300, for student dramatic productions.

 

Minnesota, Minneapolis; Missouri—Northeast
Missouri State Teachers College, Kirksville; Ne—
braska—University of Nebraska, Lincoln; New

Hampshire—University of New Hampshire, Dur— I

ham; New York—Teachers College, Columbia
University, New York City; North Carolina—
Women’s College of the University of North
Carolina, Greensboro, University of North Caro-
lina, Chapel Hill; Ohio—Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio Wesleyan University, Dela—
ware; Pennsylvania — Pennsylvania State Col-
lege, State College; Texas—North Texas State
Teachers College, Denton, Texas State College for
Women, Denton ; Utah—University of Utah, Lo—
gan; Virginia—Richmond Professional Institute
of College of William and Mary, Richmond;
VVashington—wState College of Washington, Pull-
man, University of Washington, Seattle; Wiscon-
sin—wUniversity of Wisconsin, Madison; Hawaii
-—University of Hawaii, Honolulu.

However, a number of institutions also have
established undergraduate courses of study de-
signed to prepare studerits, upon graduation, for
full-time employment in subordinate positions at
playgrounds and indoor recreation centers, or in
connection with community-wide recreation proj-
ects. Many institutions offer a few.- recreation
courses which give students, majoring in"educa-
tion, social work, physical education, or some re-
lated field, an opportunity to secure a familiarity
with recreation activities and methods that will be
useful to them in their own field or as part-time
recreation workers.

In addition to these courses designed to prepare
students for full-time or part-time paid recreation
service, colleges and universities are in a unique
position to further education for recreation. They
can, and do, offer courses in recreation which are
available to the entire student body. Courses pro—
viding participation and some leadership training
in crafts, social recreation, drama, music, and
other recreation activities, help them develop an
appreciation of the recreational arts, acquaint them
with some skills and recreation methods which
they can take back to their community. Such
courses also help to make students aware of the
importance of recreation and its place in today’s
world, and to prepare them for effective service
as volunteer recreation leaders.

Some colleges too, have added extension courses
in recreation. A recent and noteworthy undertak-
ing at a Southern university adds a new wrinkle
in training leaders for community recreation, by
furnishing this training on a state-wide basis as
a public service. These courses do not offer col-

246

lege credit, and involve no cost to participants.
Covering a five-year period, the training program
will consist of a series of short courses which will
be given in sequence. Those who take all courses
will complete one hundred fifty hours of training
under the supervision of nationally known recrea-
tion specialists. The series of courses will assist
public-school teachers and part-time recreation
workers to lead a variety of recreation activities,
as well as to upgrade themselves in this work later
on; while seasoned veterans in the field will find
the courses of refresher value. ‘

In developing this long-range training program,
the General Extension Division has the coopera-
tion of the College of Physical Education, Health
and Athletics at the university; the Department of
Physical Education of the state university, the
State Department of Education and the National
Recreation Association. Representatives of each
of these organizations hold frequent planning con-
ferences. They also consult city and county su—,
perintendents of recreation, county juvenile court
judges, school principals and teachers, and other
adult and youth leaders of community groups in
planning the overall training program.

More than 1200 community leaders already
have completed the first short course in the series,
given during last March and April. This course,
offered in thirteen centers throughout "the state,
was general in nature and entitled Program Plan-
ning. It was held seven hours a day on three con-
secutive days, in all thirteen centers. Because of
the enthusiastic response, the General Extension
Division 'is making plans to follow it with training
in special areas of recreation such as arts and
crafts, social recreation, playground activities, dra-
matics and music.

The foregoing is, of course, only a partial pic-
ture of the splendid response of colleges and uni-
versities to public need—a straw to show which
way the wind is blowing. It can indeed be said
that recreation has grown up; and that now it
goes to college.

w

Report Available

Copies of the report of the National Conference
on‘ Undergraduate Professional Preparation in
Health Education, Physical Education and Recre-
ation may be purchased from the Athletic Insti-
tute, 209 South State Street, Chicago, Illinois—
at a cost of $1 per copy postpaid. The Conference
was held at Jackson’s Mill near Weston, Virginia,
in May, 1948. See July issue of RECREATION.

RECREATION

The Library---A Resource for Recreation

 

A paper presented at a southwestern regional recreation confer-
ence by Clarence S. Paine, Director of Oklahoma City Libraries

S A ONE-TIME trainer of salesmen, an ex-col-
lege professor, and a librarian, I think I
have some right to think of myself as an educator
or, in the King’s English, an-educationalist. No-
where is the public conception of the participation
of an educatiOnalist in physical recreation better
described than in Cornelia Otis Skinner’s delight-
ful book, Our Hearts Were Y 01mg and Gay.
Describing a week-end at the home of the late
H. G. Wells, Miss Skinner tells of the participa-
tion of a fellow guest, a “great educationalist,” in
a game which seems to have been a cross
between handball, badminton, and lacrosse,
by saying, “The great educationalist played
the way one would'imagine a great educa-
tionalist would, which was to avoid with
' dignity as much participation as possible.”

Too often public libraries have avoided
with dignity as much participation as pos-
sible in the planned recreational programs
of their reSpective communities, preferring
to carry on their own independent reading
for recreation programs. Too often you,
the professional “recreation worker,” have
overlooked reading as an essential form of
recreation and an important activity to be
added to your programs.

I, have not attempted to make a survey.
I will venture to predict, however, that few
if any of your own community recreation

SEPTEMBER 1948

plans have been made with much 'thought of your
local public library as a resource for recreation.
If I am right in that prediction, then it must be
admitted that both you and your local public libra-
ries have failed to create an effective recreational
program and library system, in which the facilities
and activities of both departments are so coordin-
ated as to avoid costly duplication.

As I see it, our public recreation agencies, our
public. schools, our public libraries, and our
churches, consciously or otherwise, have a com-

 

Has your recreation department failed to cooperate with the
public library in building toward a coordinated program?

247

mun end in view which is, if it can be simply
stated, the development of an intellectually, physi-
cally, and spiritually well-rounded citizenry, each
and every member of which is willing and able to

assume his place in a democratic society—each to -’

contribute to that society up to the limits of his
innate intellectual, spiritual, and physical capacity.

There is, however, a danger in any such high-
sounding statement of objectives. We, in these
United States, are too prone to organize in behalf
of some cause, devise a noble statement of our ob-
jectives, place same before the body politic in the
form of a resolution which is adopted unanimously,
and then adjourn, considering the job well done.
\Ne are too little concerned with. the methods,
the means by which we shall attain our objectives.
We are all—the recreation agencies, the schools
and churches and the libraries—too inclined to
regard our own specific methods and materials
as adequate to the task at hand. We come to think
of the school ,as being solely responsible, or almost
so, for the intellectual development of our popula-
tion. All of us “pass the buck” to the church on
matters spiritual, and nobody thinks of the library.
But that is usually the fault of the library itself.

Actually, the library’s manifold responsibilities
to intellectual, physical, and spiritual development
are perhaps more readily apparent than are those
of your recreation agencies. To any interested
person it will be obvious that the library has within
its collections essential materials for the intellec-
tual, spiritual, and physical development of men
and their children. What we have failed to do is
to create more widespread interest and, in that
failure, our schools, and perhaps you, must as-
sume a portion of the responsibility.

By popular conception, at least, your responsi-
bilities are more readily defined. My dictionary
tells me that recreation is “the refreshment of mind
pr body after toil or weariness. Any occupation
that diverts.”

If my limited knowledge of the history of the
development of public recreation programs serves
me correctly, they were originally built around a
program of physical exercise, usually of such dura-
tion and intensity as would have done justice to a
professional heavy-weight. I remember, almost
too well, the Y.M.C.A. and high school programs
of my own youth. Both were designed in accord-
ance with a too narrow interpretation of the Dar-
winian philosophy of the survival of the fittest.
I suspect the only reason I survived was that I
developed an impregnable system of alibis and the
ability “to avoid with (or without) dignity as
much participation as possible.” My motives were

248

entirely those of self-preservation by any means
whatever. I simply was not built for a halfback,
although when properly scared I made an excel-
lent cross-country runner.

With the development of physical recreation
programs properly graded to the innate limits of
the individual, however, some of you were realiz-
ing that physical activity alone could not provide

'a well-rounded recreation program for all pe0p1e.

There were many whose work-a-day tasks re-
quired constant physical effort and others, who, for
various reasons, could find little interest in the
idea of bodily exertion in their leisure hours. For
them you have developed a well-rounded program
of arts and crafts and other activities—creative,
cultural and social. And in this, as in your physi-
cal recreation program, you have rightly empha-
sized participation as against mere spectatorship.

In your literature, however, I still fail to find
emphasis upon what I believe to be the one re-
maining activity which is essential to any well-
rounded program of recreation for any commu-
nity. I refer to reading for pleasure, as well as for
profit. I suspect that this omission is rather the
result of your taking for granted, first: that any-
one who can find recreation in reading will read;
and second, that this is a job for the public library,
anyway. Neither of these assumptions is true.
You have not hesitated to stimulate interest in
your 'organized games and sports and in_your art
and crafts classes for those whom you believe to
need such activity. Many times you have seen
disinterest develop into enthusiasm and skill. It is
true that the provision of reading materials and
readers’ advisory service is the responsibility of
the public library. I am not trying to pass the
buck to you. My point is that you and the‘public
library ought to be working together in order that
reading programs, as well developed as your pro-
grams in other fields, may become an integral part
of every community recreation program.

Do not misunderstand me. I am not blaming -
you alone for these omissions. I regret that it is
probably true that the greatest blame is upon the
public library for its failure to assume leadership
and coordinate its program with yours. But it
doesn’t really matter where the leadership comes
from and I believe that I can assure you that if
your local public library has not assumed leader-
ship, you will find it willing and anxious to co-
operate in your program.

There are many ways in which this cooperation
can function. I shall not attempt to review them
all. Each community must develop its own with
regard to its needs. I may suggest one in which I

RECREATION

know you will find interest, one which has already
been tried and proved in some communities. I
refer to the operation of a mobile library, or “book-
mobile,” on a schedule providing periodic visits to
all organized playground areas in the community
as well as to some rural areas, carrying good
books, a storyteller, and educational films to the
children and adults in that area.

There are other ways in which we can work
with you. The printed and other graphic mate-
rials of your profession should be available to you
through your local public library. To name a few
~——your professional journals, definitive reference
books such as encyc10pedias of sports and games;
plays and pageants and production helps for same;
and films to provide teaching aids for various
games, sports, I and handcrafts. Sometimes, too
often perhaps, in your own community you will
not find enough of these aids in your public library.
But unless you have made your needs known,
you cannot blame your library for this.

Let us marshal our forces into a complete, well-
rounded program of recreational activity for all
our people. In this democracy of ours, our educa—
tion, our work, and our play must all be directed
toward the creation of a dynamic, healthy, and
informed population.

We have long recognized, or at least given lip
service to the value of sports and games in the
teaching of fair play, tolerance, and wholesome
competition. There are still other values in these
and other phases of your recreation program. The
arts and crafts, the folk songs and dances, the
sports and games of the peoples of foreign lands
and far—away regions of our own continent and our
own past, all of which are a legitimate and already
prominent part of your work, can and do contrib-
ute to an understanding of those peoples and those
times. Similarly in the library, reading of the arts
and music and the literature of the people of all
times contributes to understanding. And only
through understanding, through education, if you
will, can we hope to achieve world peace. 50 do
not overlook the educational and spiritual values
in your work and mine.

In the same breath, let me warn you that in the
very accomplishment of those ends, in the very
development of a complete program of recreation
for any community, there lies a grave danger——
the danger that in our zeal we will have developed
facilities and a program which will take our peo-
ple, our men and women and their children, out
of their homes in every waking hour of leisure.

During the past quarter of a century there have
been many things which have contributed to the

SEPTEMBER 1948

. :. -> 3 ‘5 ‘ “ easy
I ..t I ‘
  :25} . -‘-;‘x ~  '
.K '3 v  ._   ..
‘3
s 9
.,
o
-:' ‘ -.

3;ng; ygngg 3

v ._ I I .

- . ,, -
- . i 1
i
. .

, -' 5'.
 p a: ~
&_ I '
‘ x .‘

 

Manyldepartments, cooperating with library, provide
bookmobile for periodic visits to local playgrounds.

disintegration of the family as a social unit. The
schools, churches and recreation agencies have
unwittingly contributed to this. Their very con-
cern over the trend has caused them to attempt
to provide substitute activities for time once spent
in the home and the neighborhood. If our young
people were to be away from home, it was better,
they contended, that they be on the playground,
in the youth center or in various extracurricular
activities in the schools than on the highway or in
the tavern. There is, of course, no denying the
argument. The fallacy lies in the original reason-
ing, expressed or otherwise, that the family unit
is a thing of the past and cannot be revitalized.
That may be true, but until we have proved it so,
it is nothing short of negligence for us to regard
it as such.

We ought all to have as one of our immediate
objectives the re-direction of attention to the home
and neighborhood as a center for the great part of
all recreation activity.

In this, the library has an easy advantage.
Reading is essentially an at-home activity. How-
ever, your other programs, too, can and should try
unceasingly to recreate and revitalize the activities
centering about the home. In your playgrounds,
your youth centers and your schools, you can teach
and promote activities which lend themselves to
family participation. Encourage production of arts
and crafts at home. Introduce competitive reading
clubs, competitive gardening, and many other
things, which you will know better than I, to
serve this end.

We must view with alarm any further disinte-
gration of the home and family life, for if we

.cannot preserve the family unit, we cannot pre—

serve the democracy which has its very roots in
that home.

249

PROBLEMS IN RECREATION

OHN DEWEY HAS suggested that we human be-
J ings do not think unless we are confronted
with a problem. The recreation movement in this
country has grown so fast, especially with and

since the last war, that many headaches and prob—'

lems concerning recreation have developed. It is
most fitting that time should be given to the mat-
ter of thinking about the problems and their solu-
tion. Of course, it is always easier to raise prob-
lems than to solve them, but until they are raised
and we are confronted by them, we probably will
not focus our thinking: on them very clearly. It is
my purpose then, to raise some problems and to
share with you my thinking at least, which may
stimulate your thinking, which, in turn, may bring
us nearer to some solutions—we hope. If my think—
ing is different from your thinking, we will both
do more thinking.

Here are some problems facing recreation today.
They are not new.

Many of us lack a broad concept and philosophy
of recreation. To many, recreation means, simply
and solely, athletic sports. To others, it means
what happens on playgrounds, at recess and after
school. To still others, it means only social recrea-
tion. Generally, in this type of recreation, a leader
is required who bubbles over with personality,
plus. He or she can lead a song, a game, or call a
square dance. But when the leader leaves the
group, its members settle into the previous level of
mediocrity and lack of imagination. That’s a prob-
lem too: teaching or helping more people to be
self-starters and doers, and not just dependers
upon a leader.

Probably, we must be more tolerant of the rec-
reation of Others even though they are “bugs” on
queer things. Recreation cannot be circumscribed
or fenced in. It is as big and broad as all the
leisure-time interests of men.

250

Harlan G. Metcalf

Some of us use recreation as a bait, or as a
means to some end rather than as the wholly ade—
quate end itself. What do I mean?

Some churches have been guilty of using recrea-
tion at times to draw peOple into the congregation,
or to hold young people. Most children, for in-
stance, attend Sunday School picnics.

Some schools have been guilty of using recrea-
tion for discipline. If you don’t get this lesson you
can’t go out to play.

Some 4-H clubs have used a bit of recreation
here or there to hold the group together for their
more serious and supposedly more important proj-
ects.

Recreation needs no added justification. It is
basically important and needed for its own intrin-
sic value to the individual.

The churches, the schools and communities
should be so much interested in their young peo-
ple and their recreation needs that they provide
gymnasia, swimming pools, stages, craftshops,
summer camps in the country, for the development
of and for the sake of the young people, not be-
cause they hope that the youngsters will join the
church or study harder. Let’s give recreation to
school children, 4-H clubers and adults because
it is important to them.

Educational institutions have concerned them-
selves with teaching the skills of earning a living
and neglected their equally important responsibil-
ity of teaching the skills of how to line. There is
more to life than being able to exist. Recreation
enables one to live and to live abundantly. It must
not be taken for granted. Recreations are made
up of many skills plus a philosophy or an attitude
of mind. Recreation skills must be learned, there-
fore they must be taught. It must not be assumed

 

*Address given at a meeting of New York Association for
Health, Physical Education and Recreation.

RECREATION

that all recreation skills must or can be taught in
the schools, but the schools have a wonderful op-
portunity to try it. Think of the chances to develop
interests and skills in—and growing life-time ap-.
preciations of—music, art, crafts, dramatics", poe-
try, nature lore, campcraft, carry—over sports such
as bait-casting, fly-casting, surf-casting, hunting,
hunting with bow and arrow, conservation educa-
tion, swimming, and a host of others.

The lack of proper use of facilities in a commu-
nity, by all who might profit from their use, is, of
course, another problem, and definite progress is
being made in this direction.

A fifth problem is often expressed as the need
for adequate financing of recreation. But the lack
of money is used too often as an excuse for doing
nothing in recreation.

Petty jealousies prevent agencies from getting
together for self-coordination and cooperative joint
planning in order to provide a maximum recrea-
tion service to people. This is a problem which
anyone with the will can attack.

One of the greatest problems facing recreation
at present is, of course, the lack of a high quality
of recreation leadership generally throughout the
nation in all areas—schools, churches, industries,
community agencies, parks and others. This con-
dition is related to many other problems as well as
to some already mentioned. Here are a few situa-
tions which must be faced:

Lopsided training of recreation workers.

Assumption that a professional recreation training
curriculum in a college or university is the answer.

Fights on college campuses as to which department,
if any, should pre-empt the field of professional train-
ing in recreation.

A department in a university starting a professional
training curriculum without knowledge of or joint
planning with other departments on the campus which
already are making valuable contributions in recrea-
tion training—0r could do so.

Establishing a training curriculum in recreation in
a college and inviting all comers without first knowing
how many trained full-time career workers in recrea-
tion a state or area can support, and what specific
types of recreation work they will do.

Lack of adequate interne or apprentice-training in
recreation.

Neglecting specific training in rural recreation and
other specific areas in recreation training curricula.

Loading a curriculum so full of required courses
that, as in physical education curricula, there is little
opportunity for electives.

Need of considering personal qualifications of recre-
ation workers.

Consideration of different colleges in different areas
of a state or region specializing in different types of
recreation training.

Need of techniques for uncovering or discovering
volunteer recreation workers in a community.

SEPTEMBER , 1948

Problem of getting talented people in a community
to assume recreation leadership in various areas.

Need for in—service training opportunities for recrea-
tion workers.

These problems are, of course, but a partial list.
The solutions are not simple and vary widely.
There is, however, one general problem which, if
solved, would go far towards solving all the others
I have mentioned. It is: a general lack of under-

standing or appreciation of the importance of rec-
reation.

Think on these things. Man made music, danced
rhythms, competed in tests of strength and agility,
fashioned works of art from wood and clay and
appreciated the beauty of bird songs, lakes and
mountains long before commerce and business
were ever considered. For literally hundreds of
thousands of years man has engaged in singing,
dancing, hiking, hunting, fishing, swimming,
mountain climbing, camping, and absorbing the
beauty of nature. Has the basic, original nature
of man changed because of urbanized existence in
the last 5,000 years? N 0. Recreation is a heritage
imbedded in our neural action patterns as human
beings. If we neglect it, we will cease to be worthy

examples of homo sapiens and become saps for
short. We will go crazy.

Recreation is not something a kind-hearted in-
dustrialist might provide for his employees. Rec-
reation is the right of every human being in a
democracy. Since, in a democracy, there is not
only freedom of religion, of speech, and of the
press, but freedom of choice as to one’s use of
leisure time, a democracy—our democracy—will
more and more be judged by the recreation of its
people.

Recreation is a universal language; it is interna-
tional, for it is a need of all individuals regardless of
race. I would like to see United Nations delegates
together singing songs of their respective nations,
dancing each other’s dances and admiring exhibits
of each lother’s art, or finishing a hike together at
sunset and roasting steaks and marshmallows amid
the circle of a campfire. Much better, this, than a
so—called social tea (though a tea is better than
nothing). Recreation can bring nations closer
together just as it helps us as individuals to under-
stand and appreciate each other.

I have raised many problems, but I have also
tried to say that recreation is tremendously, strate-
gically, and increasingly important. And only as
we realize this, and give it its fundamental place
in our thinking and in our living, can we hope to
solve financing or other problems relating to rec—
reation and its leadership.

251

WE WANT A CLUB 1

 

DOROTHY RICHARDSON, recent USO Program Director, National Board

YWCA, has had wide experience with teen-age clubs, and in conducting

leadership training courses. Here she presents helpful suggestions for

recreation leaders.

ow FAMILIAR ARE those words to adult lead—
H ers in centers, at schools and on the play—
grounds! Many of us have been approached by a
group of eager girls or boys who want a leader,
or suggestions, to help them carry out ideas which
they have gathered together. Put into words, their
reason for forming a club may be anything from a
desire “to have fun” to a wish “to study the
United Nations.” Their notions about a club as
tn organization may range from that of a highly
)rganized group with a written constitution and
very formal procedure for officers, to a loosely knit
group with little or no structure.

Therefore, we can well understand that the feel—
ing motivating the formation of a club has some-
thing to do with a desire to belong to something,
to be exclusive in varying degrees, and to have a
medium through which to express oneself. The
answers to our “why’s” can bring as many differ—
ent answers as there are individuals requesting a
club. Since, increasingly, we are conscious of the
important role an adult leader plays in a club’s
life, we are prompted either to refuse, or to go
on with this request for a club only according to
the availability of a good leader who can give real
help to these youngsters.

Why are we so concerned about the kind of
leadership necessary? Actually, a club is not an
assortment of individuals collected in one room for
a weekly meeting. It is a group of individuals who
have expressed some social needs—individuals
with some desire to be socially acceptable in their
immediate environment. How these individuals
grow as persons, and as a group, depends on the
way a leader understands and helps them—"through

252

the interplay of group life in the club, and the rela—
tion of groups to each other.

Doubtless, any of us can recall with glaring
clarity the times we have felt that neither the

,immediate goals nor the long time obectives of the

boys and girls or of ourselves were achieved to
any degree at all. Did you ever experience having
a club spend a whole year struggling over a com—
plicated constitution and never getting around to
any program that they could enjoy? Or do you
remember the time when a group of girls, who
always proposed a party with boys, couldn’t quite
get the boys invited or the party planned since all
were not ready for this coeducational experience?
There are other examples which we could quote—
such as that of the club with so many ideas that
no agreement on one could be reached as a starting
point; or that of club members with a desire to be
together but with no ideas to hold them together—
the meetings, therefore, becoming a series of seem—
ingly “empty” sessions.

Suppose a leader can be found. What does he,
or she, consider as his role with these youngsters
who think they want a club? Surely no one of
us can function without some basic knowledge
about the background (social, economic, cultural,
and the like) of the persons involved. How will
what each person brings to the group add rich—
ness and increased understanding of differences,
or how will the differences create conflict? What
do we know about behavior—as symptomatic of
the needs and desires of the child? There will
come the day in every leader’s life when one child
simply will not “pull with” the others. That is
when a leader needs to know everything about

RECREATION v

How do you get programs going in clubs? We’ve suggested all sorts of things
to do, with no response or answers such as “Aw, we don’t want to do that!”

 

Why so concerned with type of leadership necessary? Everything depends on lead-
er’s understanding and help. Here a group discusses family, social relationships.

SEPTEMBER 1948 253

 

No fizzling out for this committee! Sometimes such
committees fall down on accepting responsibility.

children, clubs or programs, and it is a sign of
wisdom and maturity to seek help from those
whose experience, insight, and training can sup-
port us in our endeavors.

Also, the amount of insight we have into our
own reactions to behavior and ideas will help us
accept and guide rather than react as a “grown-
up,” imposing our ideas and discipline on club
members. Leaders may fall into one of three gen-
eral categories: the one who wishes all children to
meet his adult ideas ; the one who thinks children
should act pretty much as they wish; and the one
who recognizes'the child’s needs and helps him to
grow at his own speed in this club experience.
There are apt to be moments when any one of us
may show a tendency toward a combination of all
or some of these characteristics of leadership.

Perhaps the one question which universally dis-
turbs all of us as leaders is “How do you get a
program going in a club?” We are confronted
with our group; have tried to find out something
about the number of possible members, the facili-
ties for a meeting place and for activities. Equip-
ment is available—but nothing really seems to
happen. In fact, we’ve suggested all sorts of things
to do, with no response, and the suggestions made
by one or two members have been overriddenwith
remarks such as “Aw—we don’t want to do that!”
What, now? How’s your blood pressure and pa-
tience at this point? Or—there may be a situation
such as one in which I found myself (and not just
once i). In my best manner I was trying to explore
the interests of a club of teen-age boys and girls
in a certain small community. After much silence
(how silent it can be), one girl looked me squarely
in the eyes and said: “You’ve lived longer than we
have—what do you. think we’d like to do ?” All
of us had a good laugh, which opened the door

254

for questions from me, the adult, about what they
did in other parts of their lives; what they en-
joyed doing most; why they thought this group
had some special contribution to make to them,
and what had pulled them together in the first
place. In however stumbling a manner we pro-
ceeded, we did get at some of their interests and
needs, eliminated those that were being satisfied
somewhere else (to some degree, anyway) and
arrived at a starting point for this new club. The
factor of greatest significance was that members
could have some choice and that what they arrived
at was of their own choosing.

— Any leader, at some time or other, may find
ideas, which he himself has tossed into the hopper,
“coming home to roost” weeks later—the child
who is introducing them, actually being under the
impression that he thought up the ideas himself.
Do we need to get credit for an idea? As far as
program ideas are concerned, a leader has a defi-
nite function in “priming the pump,” and then in
knowing how to control the stream of ideas that
pour forth when club members “get going.” There
is no set formula as to just how far the leader
goes in suggesting or moving along with the
group’s enthusiasm. We learn that through ex—
perience—and the hard way!

But, we can learn to watch for the signal flags
which denote lagging, no interest or when the
time is ripe to move into allied interests. We must
be sensitive enough to pick up on some trend in
the discussion or activity which indicates that the
“time is now.”

It is disastrous to make generalstatements about
program building for all people. The varied needs
and,interests of certain age-groups must be taken
into account. A ten-year-old surely won’t respond
to the same ideas and plans as a fifteen-year-old—
owing to difference in maturity and interests.

But, we would register one very important‘fac-
tor in all program building—that of the influence
of the span of interest around any one project.
Our alertness as to when the teen-agers have dis-
cussed enough and need to move into an activity
is important. The necessity to know when a bas-
ketball club has played enough, and needs to dis-
cuss some matters that members have been talking
about among themselves, makes demands on the
leader, too.

There are skills which each_of us brings into

.the club experience. Some of us are sought after

because we have special ability in some specific
area of interest such as crafts, music, dramatics,
sports, and so on. Certainly we use these skills to
help boys and girls increase their own skills. How-

RECREATION

ever, we bring a plus to club leadership when we
can help our groups relate this particular area to
other parts of their lives and so grow as total per-
sons—not in parts! Perhaps you have heard of
the sign on a certain country road which reads as
follows: “Pick your rut carefully—you’ll be in it
for the next twenty miles!” Sometimes club pro-
grams get into ruts for months or years instead of
twenty miles. To avoid such an eventuality, the
farseeing leader not only helps members explore
their expressed desires but exposes them to new
ideas. This may be as effective as exposure to
measles—as far as catching an idea is concerned!
But we don’t push our own ideas down other peo-
ple’s throats!

Club groups vary in size and so cannot always
move as units. Committees may work very effec-
tively or they may completely fizzle out in regard
to accepting responsibility. All kinds of experi-
ence could be cited on committees. Perhaps club
members need to learn why they had no refresh-
ments—because a committee failed to function, and
why. There are just as many learning experiences
on the positive side—when the decoration commit-
tee really did do a super job and “made” the party
—when a committee visited the City Council on a

project, and so on.

We cannot always gauge the way in which indi-
viduals will produce. We can only help in provid-
ing the opportunities for them to learn and to
make their contributions at the level of their own
experience and ability. One high school club presi-
dent once kept a list of all the committees she
appointed. She starred the individuals who grew
and took responsibility well, and saw that they,
with less able per-sons, made up the next commit—
tee. In this way she balanced committees over and
over again, and gave all girls a chance to serve
and get stars.

There aren’t neat “do’s” and “don’ts” to follow
in helping clubs develop. Who wants such any—
way? Perhaps the most important attributes for
leaders could be said to be: a genuine liking for
children and young people; a desire to let them
grow with our guidance, through their skills and
experience; and a belief in their abilities. Our job
is to help boys and girls have creative experiences
within clubs. These should be closely knit groups
and so more effective for bringing learning and
recreation to all members. Our own s'atisfactions
come in the fun we have and from Seeing others

enjoy their club life.

Recreation News

Court Case

In Elizabeth, New Jersey, last month, Judge
Edward A. McGrath, in Common Pleas Court,
ruled that an insurance agent, who broke his leg
while running in a one-legged race at a company
picnic, is not entitled to workman’s compensation.

This was a rejection of an appeal by the agent,
who previously had been turned down by a com—
pensation court. He asserted that he was per~
manently injured, and that his employer—the in—
surance company—is responsible. Judge McGrath,
on the other hand, held that the agent had joined
the employees’ association of his own free will, and
that he had a choice of staying at the ofhce 0n the
day of the picnic if he so wished.

Pollution Fight

A nation-wide campaign to rid America’s
streams of pollution is in the offing now, as the
result of agreement of a Senate-House conference
committee which has voted $112,500,000 for this
cause. This sum will be divided into equal
amounts, over a period of five years, for loans to

SEPTEMBER 1948

municipalities and states to conduct research in
stream pollution. The measure now must go to
the House and Senate. Original House and Sen—
ate versions differ widely. Individual loans may
total $250,000 for anti—pollution projects under the
present plan. Originally this would have been
limited to $200,000.

State-Wide Training

A fine example of state—wide summer play-
ground institute—training work was carried out
this year in W'estchester County, New York. The
County Recreation Commission, in cooperation:
with the County Recreation Executive Associa-
tion, put on some seventeen summer playground'
institutes. This was the introduction of a coor-
dinated training plan which will “permit students
(in four years) to receive training in eight major
activities, as well as general organization and pro-
gram planning.” A record of each student’s work
will be kept and appropriate recognition given. It
is estimatedthat about 1,000 persons were reached
with the initial courses.

255

 

HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS deveIOping negatives. Some 150 teen-agers are among amateur photographers who use
the Center’s excellent facilities. This opportunity is available free of charge to any of city’s interested residents.

CITY’S PHOTO CENTER

NLY AMATEUR photographers are allowed to

work on their hobby at the San Francisco
Recreation Department Photography Center—and,
as it turns out, most of the people who apply are
beginners. They don’t, however, stay beginners for
long. They can get help from the live instructors
on the Center’s staff. They can often find the an-
swers to their questions in the photography pam-
phlets and magazines in the Center’s library. As
eamera fans are wont toodo, they can discuss their
photography problems with each other. And, from
'time to time, the Center sponsors lectures on the
various phases of photography.

256

One of the inducements to better photOgraphy
offered by the Center is the running of periodic
competitions, and occasional exhibitions of ama—
teur photographs. The Center offers a photogra—
phy Problem Club, and also, from time to time,
serves as a meeting place for independent photog-
raphy clubs.

The original Photography Center started in a
few small rooms in the early part of 1940. Now,
in new quarters—a sprawling frame building—it
claims to be one of the largest municipal photog-
raphy centers in the nation. More than 500 young
people and adults have signed up to use its facil-

RECREATION

 

TWENTY ENLARGERS, like this, are provided in “en-

larging room” accommodating thirty-five people at a time.

ities; and membership, which is free, is growing
at the rate of some fifty new members a month.
Attendance runs around fifty perSons per night,
but there is room for twice that many.

Equipment, provided by the San Francisco Rec-
reation Department, includes twenty enlargers,
six contact printing boxes, two automatic rotary
washers, two Paco driers, six flood-lights, and
chemicals for printing and enlarging. Photography
fans must supply their own printing paper and, if
they want to develop negatives, must bring their
own developer.

Frederick Levy, genial director of the Center, is
known to his friends as Foto Fred because of his
painstaking efforts on behalf of the art. Fred
knows the fine points of photography down to the
nth degree and will go to any amount of trouble
to get a good shot. When the camera doesn’t click
just right, it goes back to the repairman, making
slow repair work the bane of Fred’s life. He strives
continually for better reproductions, and Center
members find his enthusiasm for' high standards
of work most contagious.

He says: “Although individual instruction is
available here, our purpose is not to run a school
but to encourage photography as a hobby.”

Some of the photographs on these pages were
taken by members of the Center.

SEPTEMBER 1948

 
   

 

 
 

A :-

ONLY‘iiiMATEURS are  to wrk atthei Center. H

They sign an agreement for proper care of equipment.

257

  
 

Hobbies c\.

RECREATION AND ATHLETIC ACTIVITIES STAMPS

Harold Hainfeld

LANCING ABOUT THE oflices of any recreation
G or athletic director or leader, one can notice
many trophies, pictures of teams and activities
sponsored by his department. Have you, who
proudly show these things, ever thought of the
possibilities of promoting and displaying a collec-
tion of postage stamps issued by various countries,
based on outstanding recreation and athletic
events? There have been many issued which cover
various phases of the sports program.

The United States commemorated the 1932
Olympics with three stamps, a two-cent issue for
the winter games at Lake Placid, and a three and
Five-cent stamp for the activities at Los Angeles
later that summer. The picture of a. sandlot base-
ball game is depicted on the 1939 US. issue to
commemorate one hundred years of the develop-
ment of the sport since its start in the 19th century.

About the first sports stamps were those issued
by Greece in 1896 when the Olympic Games were
revived for modern enjoyment. Through the years
since that time the games have been noted on
stamp issues of many countries including Belgium,
France, Germany and the United States. Switzer—
land issued four stamps to commemorate the I948
winter games at St. Moritz. Austria and Monaco
also have issued stamps to commemorate the sum-
mer games; while Great Britain has been planning
an issue for the Olympics held there this summer.

In addition to Our Baseball Centennial issue,
stamps with a baseball theme have been printed
as part of the Philippine sports issue of 1934 for

258

the Tenth Far Eastern Championship Games. Our
national pastime has also been shown on stamps
of Columbia, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela.

Soccer, more popular in Europe than in this
country, has been shown on stamp issues of Italy,
Romania, Finland and Germany. Winter sports,
in addition to the 1932 United States issue, are
shown on stamps of Germany, Switzerland, Ro-
mania and Finland. Other sporting activities
shown on stamps include hunting and fishing,
track events, wrestling, gym events, basketball,
swimming and diving.

The collection of athletic and recreation activi—
ties stamps can be stimulated by recreation leaders,
and should start many youngsters and old-timers
on a hobby that will form an interesting, informa-
tive, and exciting leisure-time activity—an activity
with excellent carry—over value.

1944 Czechoslovakia—Sports Issue—4 values.

’ "‘-. 1 (-2.5...)fg'r. 5'5» . -.2. g A __,. -
éa'é 03% «"d #433"; ‘ “i *' “It? WM ‘ 4‘; '.

    
  

y;- a a: I). x n n n'xuxvetij‘t. aAg‘xin‘i'yA

I‘L'rrH‘Nv‘FNWNI‘s’Cv

.
» disavow)!“

 

" ;

  
 

 

-.~.
-.-. -' a
,, o- h, apt,
.2. “t Y' D: -a- Jug,
"-"' e' S‘ Q‘ 'ib'"
n -, v.5” .h <-
-' ‘T-I‘ '4. ‘?¢%"§n-.“o' .-
13x y

. 2 at ’F g  .
(x. .. -.-. ."I " ’. _ A}???
H "‘ “if. -‘ S533?“ soieuea’m

. Q
§§I§hliittiilllllSQu‘RQI‘XI-i
' Nisan“; 3mg;

RECREATION

Issues of Recreation and Athletic Activities Stamps

UNITED STATES

1932 10th Olympic Games 3 values
1939 Baseball Centennial 1 value
AUSTRIA
1933 Ski Concourse Issue 4 values
1936 Ski Concourse Issue 4 values
1948 Postwar Olympics 1 value
BELGIUM
1920 Olympic Games 3 values
1921 Olympic Games 3 values
BULGARIA
1947 Sports Conference Issue 5 values
CZECHOSLOVAKIA
1925 Olympic Congress Issue 3 values
1926 Sokol Games 4 values
1944 Sports Issue 4 values
FINLAND
1945 Sports Figures 5 values
FRANCE
1937 Recreation Fund Issue 3 values
1938 Soccer Commemorative 1 value
GERMANY
1935 Winter Olympic Issue 3 values
ITALY
1934 World Soccer Championships 9 values
PHILIPPINES
1934 Far East Games 3 values

      

 

a,4~eea*eréé;er.wren .. 3; ‘ 

.
 ,  a *3, any“) as 33 :3
w >' 9* - - -' t . I ~‘.'
. -. -. .<_ F3 5. 3:”-   :«ffib'yksi

1947 Yugoslavia—Calisthenics Issue—3 values.

ROMANIA
1945 Sports Figures 10 values
1946 Sports Figures 8 values
RUSSIA
1935 International Spartacist Games 10 values
1940 Physical Culture Day 5 values
SWITZERLAND
1944 Olympic Jubilee 3 values
1948 Winter Olympics 4 values
VENEZUELA
1944 Amateur Baseball Issue 9 values
. YUGOSLAVIA
1947 Calisthenics Issue 3 values

«as

What I Like Best

ALL WHO KNOW Liberty Hyde Bailey have
thought Of him as a man who has lived fully
and richly all the years Of his life. While he was
in his teens he made a plan. He would Spend
twenty-five years learning, twenty-five years teach-
ing and twenty-five years doing “what I like best.”

Accordingly one day he started out to dO what
he liked best. He has traveled all over the world
by plane, train, boat, canoe and on foot. He has
gathered a tremendous collection Of Specimens Of
palms. (According to Time magazine, he has “the
best collection' in the world”) At the age Of
eighty-nine he tOOk a three months’ plane trip
over the Caribbean and up the Amazon.

TO many, Liberty Hyde Bailey is best known
as former Dean of the New York State College Of
Agriculture at Cornell University. During the
years he wrote, or edited, numerous bOOks on
plants; and many are familiar with these.

TO all who know him well he has been a great
inspiration for more abundant living.

SEPTEMBER 1948

Are Americans Lonely?

GEOFFREY GORER, a British anthropologist, writ—
ing in his bOOk The American People, takes
as his central theme the thesis that Americans are
hounded by a dread Of loneliness and isolation.
“The absence Of doors in all but the most private
parts Of most houses, the wedged-Open doors Of
Offices and studies, the shared bedrooms in colleges
and boarding houses, the innumerable clubs and
fraternal associations, professional organizations
and conventions, the club cars on trains, the num-
berless opportunities and facilities given for casual
conversation, the radioo piped into every hotel
bedroom, into many railway cars and automobiles
———-Americans consider there is something Odd,
something suspect when: a young person deliber-
ately eschews company and chooses privacy.”
Perhaps one reason American cities have been
SO active in developing neighborhood recreation
centers is that American peOple find such great
satisfaction in being together, in comradeship, in
neighborliness. It may be that the frontier, and
the desire of frontier people to get together, has
left' an enduring influence upon our American life.

259

 

At Your Service

30th National Recreation Congress

q

THE CONGRESS COMMITTEE is happy to report that again the manufacturers

of equipment, publishers and other commercial organizations in the recrea—
tion field will be with us at Omaha. Many of the firms and their representa—
tives have supported the Congress for years—a few from the very beginning;
and delegates will look forward to greeting their old friends and to discussing
with them accumulated pr‘oblems of materials and equipment. There will be
a number of newcomers this year to whom you will wish to give a warm

welcome so that they will want to come again and again.

We urge all delegates to visit the exhibits, get acquainted, and to make
the most of this opportunity for valuable help. Each exhibit will be manned
by one or more key persons who will gladly answer all questions. Here’s the
list. Let us say thank you for the support of these loyal friends by taking

advantage of their excellent services.

Ackley, Bradley & Day, Sewickley, Pa. MacGregor Goldsmith, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
F. Ellwood Allen Organization, New York, N. Y. Magnus Brush & Craft Materials, New York, N. Y.

American Recreation Society, Inc., Washington, D. C. National Bowling Council, Dayton, Ohio

Athletic Institute, Chicago, Ill. National Golf Foundation, Chicago, Ill.
Aviation Products Co., New York, N. Y. Ohio Kentucky Manufacturing Co., Ada, Ohio
A. S. Barnes & Co., New York, N. Y. Paddle Tennis Co., Inc., New York, N. Y.‘
Billiard Congress of America, Chicago, Ill. Pennsylvania Rubber Co., Jeanette, Pa.
1. E. Burke Co., Fond du Lac, Wis. Rawlings Manufacturing Co., St. Louis, Mo.
- ’ The Coca-Cola Co., New York, N. Y. Refinite Corp., Omaha, Neb.
' Game—time, Inc., Litchiield, Mich. W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
Giant Manufacturing Co., Council Bluffs, Iowa Seamless Rubber Co., New Haven, Conn.
The Handcrafters, Waupun, Wis. Square Dance Associates, Freeport, N. Y.
Hillerich & Bradsby Co., Inc., Louisville, Ky. w. J. Voit Rubber Corp., Los Angeles, Cal.
Logan Manufacturing Cd, Glendale, Cal. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, Ill.

' 260 . RECREATION

Evening Speakers

   
 

At General Sessions
Recreation Congress

Omaha

   

Governor Val Peterson Dr. William C. Menninger

Josiyn IlIemorial, Omaha’s beautiful art center, the
scene of the opening session and the daily center
for arts and crafts enthusiasts at the Congress.

OVERNOR PETERSON, a veteran of Army service in the China-Burma—
India Theatre, is the chief executive of Nebraska. Dr. Menninger,
the “Dr. Will” half of the famous Menninger brothers, heads the Menninger
Foundation for psychiatric treatment, education and research at Topeka,
Kansas, and the American Psychiatric Association. Miss Hickey, editor
of the Public Affairs Department, Ladies" H ome Journal, is known for her
active leadership in women’s organizations and in public affairs. Dr. Alex-
ander is the outstanding young pastor of the First Christian Church of
Oklahoma City. Still another general eve-
ning speaker will be Dr. William M.
Cooper, Director of Summer Study
and Adult Education, Hampton
Institute. Dr. Cooper’s accep-
tance was received too late
to permit use of his pic—
ture here.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 

  
 
 
 
  
 
 

Miss Margaret Hickey
Dr. William H. Alexander

SEPTEMBER 1948 i 261

Recreation knows no national boundaries . . .

 

a; VERY NATION HAS its song, its games, its art,

E its drama and its literature,” said Joseph
Lee, "but the Muses that have whispered to us
are the same.” The sources of life and happiness
are international and recreation knows no national
boundaries. It is therefore not surprising that the
National Recreation Association, since its early
days, has helped plant the seeds of the recreation
movement in all lands, and that its inHuence and
services have been extended to foreign neighbors
in far corners of the earth. Before World War I,
Mr. C. M. Goethe, then a member of the Board of
Directors, on a trip around the world sought to
spread interest in recreation, and helped to estab-
lish and finance playgrounds in several countries
in Asia. Prior to 1916, the Association had as-
sisted in establishing playgrounds in Japan and
the Philippines. Since that time, through its pub-
lications, correspondence bureau, Congresses and
consultations with visitors, the Association has
carried on in the tradition of friendly cooperation.

A steady Hood of inquiries from other countries
constantly opens new channels for service; and
each monthly report of the Correspondence and
Consultation Bureau records several such. These
are from individuals and organizations seeking
information, literature and advice on a great vari-
ety of recreation subjects. The following requests
are typical of those received and answered since
World War II.

A German community wanted information on
playground apparatus; a missionary in China re-
quested literature that would be helpful in estab-
lishing parks and playgrounds in several North
China cities. A person who had taught in the
Government training school for teachers in Java,
before being taken prisoner by the Japanese,
wanted literature he could use as he resumed his

262

INTERNATIIINM

work at the school. The Recreation and Leader-
ship Movement in New South Wales asked for
literature and suggestions for establishing the or-
ganization as a Commonwealth Movement. From
the Netherlands, the secretary of a committee to
provide recreation areas and facilities 'in towns and
neighborhoods, sought information on the stand—
ards used in this country. The director of play-
grounds and centers in a large South African city
requested literature on recreation programs, and
advice in setting up a training course for recrea-
tion leaders in the local university. The American
Embassy at Lima, Peru, asked for help in plan-
ning and equipping a playground for children in
the American colony, in the crowded port of
Callao. Across the world the Ministry of Educa-
tion in Bankok, Siam, called upon the Associa-
tion to furnish information on all types of play
equipment and materials that might be used in
schools. Many workers with U.N.R.R.A., and
other organizations servicing refugee camps and
centers for displaced persons in European coun—
tries, have asked for literature and information to
help them in organizing activities that could bring
joy, and relief from tragedy, to these centers.
Visitors from abroad seeking information on
recreation methods, programs and developments
in the United States, invariably turn to the Na-
tional Recreation Association for guidance in mak-
ing their stay productive of greatest value. Here
they receive a cordial welcome and assistance with
their itinerary, if they are planning to visit several
cities. Letters of introduction to recreation author-
ities are given them, and suggestions made as to
places which might be of special interest, commu—
nities where they can observe facilities and pro-
grams. Other visitors come to the Association to
meet staff members in the organization, from

RECREATION

EAKING

whom they have received letters, information and
literature. A Y.VV.C.A. worker from Australia
said recently, “The first place I want to visit is
the office of the National Recreation Association,
which has been of such great help to me.”

Among the many distinguished and interesting
visitors there was, for example, Mr. Baruch Ben
Yishai, then in charge of youth activities for the
I-Iadassah organization in Palestine. Mr. Yishai
spent several months observing recreation in cities
throughout the United States, under the guidance
of the Association. Conferences were also held
with several N.R.A. workers, with reference to his
plans for establishing a leadership training course
at the University of Jerusalem, and for developing
community recreation programs in the Holy Land.
Unfortunately, Mr. Yishai was killed early in
1948 while on patrol duty near Jerusalem.

Mrs. W retland-Larsson, Superintendent of
Playgrounds in Stockholm, Sweden—whose four—
month itinerary took her to the Pacific Coast and
back—~planned her trip with the help of the Asso-
ciation. Because of her special interest in the train-
ing of playground workers, arrangements were
made for her to attend two institutes conducted
by members of the N.R.A. staff. Slides of Stock-
holm’s playgrounds were shown to the staff by
Mrs. Larsson, and she generously attributed sev-
eral ideas, adopted on her playgrounds, to sugges-
tions which had appeared in publications of the
Association.

A growing interest in recreation, and a desire
to profit by the experience of the United States
in developing a community recreation movement,
are apparent from the comments of these visitors.
The Director of Sports and Physical Education, in
the Ministry of Education in France, asked about
the history and work of the Association, and about

SEPTEMBER 1948

local recreation deve10pments. Representatives of
a group, seeking to establish a recreation organi-
zation similar to the N .R.A., in Palestine, were
given full information about the Association’s
work, and helped to observe recreation develop—
ments in several cities. A Belgian priest, here
with the Belgian Economic Mission, had spent
months in a concentration camp for assisting Al-
lied airmen. He called to secure information that
he could use with the International Fresh Air
Organization, the Higher Institute for Physical
Education at Louvain, and the High School for
Teachers at Brussels. A Polish scientist, conduct-
ing research under a foundation grant, desired to
learn what provision is made here for the recrea-
tion of workers in industry. A Syrian graduate
student in agriculture came seeking information,
and literature, for use in deveIOping recreation
opportunities for the people of small communities
in Syria. The chairman of the Playground Asso-
ciation of Queensland, Australia, in this country
to attend the International Rotary Convention,
called to obtain a complete set of publications, and
to secure answers to a multitude of questions with
reference to the organization, and to the Operation
of community recreation programs in the United
States.

The influence of recreation progress in this
country, upon developments in other lands, is fur-
ther strikingly illustrated by examples of N.R.A.
service to the Near East in the years following
World War I. Through correspondence and con-
ferences with officials of the Near East Founda-
tion, a suggested plan was prepared for a play-

 

Mrs. Wretland-Larsson, of Sweden, welcomed by Min-
neapolis, Minnesota, mayor at Norway Day celebration.

263

The National Recreation Asso

     
      
     

 

a " ' \. BAFFIN " ' 
ALASKA ‘1 i \ i ‘5’: i- I A ' i 
I I '7 , ‘ \ i ‘ "5 ' ‘ I
- . - _ , \ v n
i l Great \g it Q;
‘  i Bea, $00M won or (ANADA . I
I . . L. y I JCELNNIID
l ll: V/\“. A Egg/j
I Great _ V  ' FAROSR‘: ‘

 

a,
05mm 6.3,

f River
:3; scolILAN!
k 9‘:

a
II .
IRELth 
.?¥I

NEWFOUNDLAND

 

   

  
  
  

 

bi
AZORESQ.
:1;
CANARYIS
2
$3 HAWAIIAN IS a
3' - - . ~ 4‘ 44,
.r« R. (-4 - .
("a oimunAsE” *? 1' sine 0'16 q CAPEVERDE,
glypu‘ums Carzbbean A ‘3‘ H IS. ‘9’
G‘¢&£:§OQ\:QRAGUA ’53“ twmj’” SENEGAL
x, - ‘.#N§MA _." mm
P A c I F I c 5* maria-(When O
RICA :0 -~.,_A* ' _
9°13¢& COwMami august} -
. at.) g, -
GALAPAGOSI.§\% ECUA08R\\  BRAZIL
a .,.J I
.FERUK/ ®Ascansxou
QE‘e‘bMAROUESASls \WHS”. 0 U T H
A33” 8500‘" Is {iaowlhi‘ o STaELENA
o l _ .
9. 11mm I.   C A O
town 15 3X _~.‘_€A;AJ
game: :5 5:" '7' K«SIM? 0
(J! ‘2’ j! ‘53
(ARGENTINA?
o c _E A N . M 7
0 oll‘ '.
/ ,l . lgv ‘P
,f .5 ~*_ ~
1 ,4) '2:
i  V’
a ,2
:0" j  Copyright, American Map Company, Inc., New 3'
}

 

Cities Using NRA Correspondence and Consultation Bureau 861i

Alaslta Belgium Clinion Leaside S’r. Caiherine Wells Czechoslavaltie:
Anchorage Aniwerp Coleman Le’rhbridge Si. Thomas Wes’rview Prague l
Ke’rchiltan Brussels Didsbury London Saska’roon Winnipeg Dufch Wesf In:i
Nome Louvain Dunnville Melville Selkirk Woods’rock Aruba - lslal'!

Argen+ina Brazil Edmon’ron Monfreal Shawinigan Falls York’ron Ecuador
Sanfa Fe Belem Edson New Toron’ro Shelburne Canal Zone Lola I

Rio de Janeiro Esquimal’r Norfh Sydney Sudbury Curundu Qui’ro

Ausiralia Bulgaria For’r Frances Orms’rown Summerside China England 1
Brisbane Sofia Fredric’ron Oshawa Toronfo Chungking Bramborougl
Cas’rlemaine Canada Hospeler O’r’rawa Unionville Hofei Bury l:
Melbourne Arvida Kemp’rville Prince Alber‘i Vancouver Shanghai London ‘
Nurioo’rpa Bowmanville Kenogami Regina Vic’roria Cuba Nor’rhamp’rc'
Sydney Bran’rford Kings’ron Richmond Wainwrigh’r Havana N. Amershal

1
l 

  
  
 
 
   
       
     
       
     
     
  

eon Serves Around the World

 

1

A S I A 

 
    
   
   

    
  

 

. \_ 'J 1/} K
' l
/ l
1-“ _ r,
'A- .""N i ‘
'xol \"- I '\ l I /
I \°"~- ' M - SAKHALINI. 
. ° \ ." “"an We \. K 9 .
-  ./ MONGOLIA "" MC a0 \ . :4 a e
kndaumnm -/ h"'-..--"°""'-.804-1941“? z k 6 :5?
z-{‘ Aral    00;", — - i’} .a
“Iii-am. Sea C """" "   :-- - a ,| g
g»,  , .\ TURKESIAN /' S'NK'AN    - J,
 5454‘“- .J' :"  
. J  v‘ o \\__'\  «2*.-   ‘-. I
°' 0° ~ ‘~°fm;.l~__\ C H I N E 85' -.._R E P U:-B L l C
 \I‘.J.I “” .n.)"\_“ .-. .2. --..-._' '
AFgHANISTAy-l ./ ' ngg _  CH'NA
air t ..,:  z  ir
' l '- '. ..
I liéiiiucms- : - :' P A C I F I C

\' IA N":

 

09$
FORMOSA

HONGKONG

   

\ EGYPTIAN AINAN
I I” SUDAN H 'a 
. q, . . PHILIPPINE]. ‘ GUAMI.
(\I ‘0 5 0 C E A_ N
‘ "' socomu. "P'-
I ‘ 9
E) W If LACCADIVE I5. Q
'\_.~. .'
EELS”? .‘o’ EASTINDIES
CONGO I

    

J o
t}. .1

h‘.

g Q SOLOMON IS.

y‘\ 98% Q
. J %

a
new
Coral Seantamu§i n“ '

a...)
{- J

  
  
 

INDIAN

  
 

mumnus  NORIHERN;

:tERRIIORY:

' wesrenn E PUEENSLAND new
AUSTRALIA; * 5 \ CALEDONIA

AUS  1 A

     
 
   
 

OCEAN

IIIO'

Enaw scum"
WALES

    
 

5 some ; .
EAUSIRALIA  

     

   
   
 

wgrom NEW 
‘ . . lEALAND . .0
I‘lEND 0 Regions In Each Country Using NRA Services "5mm?  '
t *Countries Receiving NRA Publications *y'

 

I

#2:
 January 1944 to June 1948, as Indicated in Monthly Reports: .

’{l'on Thesaloniki Bombay Japan Newfoundland Palestine Soviet Union

ll (Salonika) Delhi Osaka S+_John's [555+ Jerusalem Moscow

D'l' gtors Volos Jammu Tokyo Tel Aviv Sweden

'6' Guatemala Lucknow Liberia New zealand pew Stockholm

3f" Guatemala City Madras Monrovia Auckland Callao Turkey

'9 y Hawaii New Delhi Libya Blenheim PHI. . I I d Ankara

3"} Honolulu lndo-China Tripoli Christchurch Mppllne s an S Union of South Africa
at! _tadt Kalaupapa Saigon Mexico Dargaville am 6‘: Grahamstown
'a! urt Pearl City I I d Chihuahua Napier Pue'l'? R'°° Johannesburg
If nwehr Honduras reDanbl. Mexico City Palmerston North Adluni'aS Natal - Province
lU‘ h Teguoigalpa U In Netherlands Waipawa 5‘3" Juan Pretoria

Gt India Italy The Hague Wangunui Siam Venezuela

 5: Almadabad Turin Vught Wellington Bangkok Barcelona

ground that had been presented to the City of
Athens; one that was designed to serve as a model
for that country. Detailed suggestions as to appa-
ratus and equipment for the area were included.
Later Mr. Demetrios Lezos, who was appointed
Director of Playgrounds in Athens, was sent to
this country where the Association assisted him in
arranging a program of visitation, consultation and
training. Except for the war years the Association
has continued to keep in touch with Mr. Lezos,
and to furnish him with information and literature.
Another worker employed to organize recreation
and other services in the Balkan countries, under
the Near East Foundation, was also assisted in
arranging a visit to several centers in the United
States.

Sessions of the National Recreation Congress
have attracted many visitors from abroad; and for
many years the Congress Proceedings were the
outstanding source of help for recreation in other
lands. A first International Recreation Congress,
held in Los Angeles in 1932, was organized by the
Association with the cooperation of an Interna-
tional Advisory Committee representing thirty—
three countries. Attended by delegates from forty
countries, the Congress was an “occasion on which
the nations of the earth met together to plan for
the attainment of life and happiness by all the peo-
ple.” It afforded an international exchange of
information and recreation experience, and a means
of deve10ping international goodwill—even though
subsequent world events have tended to over-
shadow its results. Following the Congress that
year, the Association, at the request of the Inter-
national Advisory Committee, sent a questionnaire
to the recreation authorities around the world,
and widely distributed the results.

It is significant that several delegates to that
Congress have visited the office of the Association
in recent months, among them Sir Noel Curtis-
J)ennett of England, founder of the National Play-
ing Fields Association in that country; Julie Rod-
riguez, director of the National Commission of
Physical Education in Uruguay; Sochii Saito,
chairman of the reorganized Recreation Associa-
tion of Japan, and Oscar‘. F. Castillon, athletic
director of the Steel Corporation of Monterey,
Mexico. Mr. Lauri Pihkala, Finnish journalist
and sportsman, who represented Finland on the
Advisory Committee in 1932, is making plans to
attend the Congress in Omaha this month.

National Recreation Association publications,
too, have played their part in furthering recrea—
tion activity internationally. After World War I,
they were introduced to European countries by

266

workers with the Red Cross and other wartime
agencies. N .R.A. standards for recreation space,
available through the printed word, have been
quoted by planning authorities from England to
New Zealand; sections of the playground note-
books have been reproduced in South America
and in Central Europe; some N .R.A. materials
have been reprinted in the Soviet Union and in
Belgium. Requests for permission to translate a
number of the publications have recently been
granted to the Office of Religious Affairs, of the
Military Government in Germany, and to the
Japanese government as a part of their program
for the re-education of youth.

For many years RECREATION magazine has car-
ried monthly stories of recreation developments in
this country, to leaders everywhere. Frequently it
has contained stories of recreation in foreign coun-
tries, and one entire issue was devoted to reports
of such developments. The Athletic Badge Tests
for Boys and Girls have been used far and wide.
Photographs of recreation facilities and activities,
in the United States, have been furnished for use
in publications in several countries.

During the recent war, when it was practically
impossible to send printed material to China, the
University of Social Research in China requested
the Association to select approximately 2,000 pages
of its material, these to be photographed on 35
mm. film and sent in diplomatic pouches for war-
time use in that country. Recent requests for
literature to replace material destroyed during the
war have come from agencies in Manila, and
from several European countries.

Visitors from other lands attend N.R.A. Congresses.
Ethel T. Mori, of Honolulu, at ’47 New York meeting.

 

RECREATION

Also during the recent war, the N.R.A. was
called upon frequently, by the thce of War Infor-
mation, to assist in preparing articles on recreation
subjects for publication in various countries, or
to review such articles before they were used.
Through the armed services, copies of booklets on
games and music were distributed in huge quan—
tities for use by the army and navy at home and
overseas. Quantities of literature were sent to Red
Cross workers, to recreation personnel with the
service forces in many countries, and requests for
information from these workers were promptly
filled. In some cases such materials were for use
with civilians; for example a Red Cross worker in
India wrote for games to be used in teaching vil-
lage children how to play; and an enlisted man in
North Africa asked for suggestions for the boys'
-club he had organized in the city where he was
stationed. Much of this material doubtless has
found its way into the hands of citizens of these
countries. '

A complete listing of the organizations in for-
eign lands, who have asked for assistance in recent
years, would fill several pages. The following list
of a few sources of inquiry, during a brief post-
war period, illustrates the variety of agencies and
the wide geographical area from which they came:

Workers Recreation
Service, Brazilian
Ministry of Labor

Italian Association of
Friends of America,

Inter-American Educa-
tional Foundation of
Honduras

Greek-American-Cana—
dian League of Thessaly

Australian Department of Turin
Post-VVar Reconstruc- Liberia Education De-
tion partment . _
Puerto Rico Police Ath— Boy Scouts of Jammu,
letic League India
Antwerp Bell Telephone National Playing Fields
Company Association of Great
Polish Institute of Social Britain
Service Amateur Athletic Feder—
National Training Com- ation, Philippine Re—
mittee, Y.W.C.A. of public
Australia National Department of

International Labor Office Child Welfare, Brazil

Service to other countries, however, is not lim-
ited to lands across. the sea, for the Association
has ever cooperated closely with recreation agen-
cies in Canada. Communities in that country have
been encouraged to contribute reports of their
work to the Recreation Year Book. Upon request,
field service has been extended to several Canadian
cities. Canadian leaders in recreation have partici-
pated in Recreation Congress meetings; and one
of the Congresses was held in Toronto. An Asso-
ciation representative has attended the annual

SEPTEMBER 1948

meetings of the Parks and Recreation Association
of Canada, and leaders of the two organizations
have met and discussed methods of cooperation
and service. Help in meeting recreation problems
has been given to Canadian housing, youth, recrea—
tion and welfare agencies.

The personnel department of the N.R.A. also
has cooperated in this overall international picture,
and has been called upon many times to find em-
ployment opportunities for people from other
lands. A girl from Japan and one from France
have attended the N.R.A. School. In addition, the
department has placed recreation workers with
the Standard Oil Company in Aruba, West Indies,
the Overseas Service of Pan—American Airlines in
Iceland; it has filled positions in the Hawaiian
Islands, and has assisted the foreign service branch
of the Y.M.C.A., in finding people with recreation
experience for duties in Puerto Rico and Turkey.
During World War 1'1, it assisted in the place—
ment of recreation workers with the American
Red Cross, the Recreation Welfare Service of the
United States Navy, the Special Services Division
of the United States Army, and other war agen-
cies offering services abroad. Within the past few
months, help has been given to the Civil Affairs
Branch of the Military Government in Germany,
and the United States Army, in selecting directors
for youth services in the American occupied zone.

There are other phases to the National Recrea-
tion Association’s round-the—world contributions
to the recreation movement. N 0 request for assis-
tance remains unanswered. All of the various de-
partments which comprise the Association, func-
tioning at headquarters and in the field, share the
challenge of helping those—at home and abroad—
who are interested in, and determined to advance,
the progress of recreation so that it may spread to
include all people of all ages, everywhere.

 

German Youth Groups

A recent release from the Office of ‘Military
Government for Germany (U.S.) states:

Although figures are no indication of the amount
of inner reorientation which has taken place, it is
interesting to note that at the end of March 1948
there were over 1,200,000 members of organized youth
groups, in contrast to 890,000 a year ago, and less than
200,000 in April 1946. Youth groups have also in-
creased from approximately 2,000 in April 1946 to
10,000 in April 1948. Ninety—three youth hostels are

being used by young hikers in all parts of the U. S.
Zone

267

 

Ancient musical instruments collected as hobby by violinist
D’ Zama Murielle; presented to Portland’s Junior Museum.

Choose Your Instrument—Recent addition
to the exhibits of antiques, art, craft work, natural
history and other important displays that make
the park bureau—directed Junior Museum in Port-
land, Oregon, a distinctive center of special inter-
ests for girls and boys of the city, is a collection
of over 500 musical instruments, ancient and
modern. Among these are the dulcimer and flutes
from China and Japan; an ancient Chinese violin;
clarinets from France and Spain; an old Alpine
horn; an even more venerable Austrian horn;
African and American Indian drums and tom-
toms; a large collection of bells, including an
Egyptian toe bell and a wooden bell from Bali. In
fact, almost every country in the world is repre-
sented in this unique collection of instruments.

0

Saluting Young America—Youth Month will
be observed during September at the suggestion
of President Truman. Its purpose is to arouse
public interest in youth and family problems, so
that the agencies in the youth and family field will
find a more responsive reaction in dealing with
juvenile problems and needs. At the recommenda-
tion of the National Conference on the Preven—
tion and Control of Juvenile Delinquency, Theatre
Owners of America has set up a national Youth
Month committee to organize the principal media
of information—“newspapers, magazines, radio and
motion pictures—in publicizing the September
program. More than 10,000 theatres are expected
to cooperate actively, to create interest in youth
activities. Among the contemplated theatre proj-
ects are special Youth Month trailers, lobby deco-
rations, youth short subjects, presentation of youth

268

activities in major newsreels, and cooperation with
civic groups. Other special activities, such as the
issuance of the Youth Month stamp, will help
promote national interest.

Sports and Finances—Participants and spec-
tators will probably spend more than $5,000,000,-
000 in sports this year. And this impressive figure
does not include the large investment in the na-
tion’s football stadia, baseball parks, bowling al-
leys, golf courses, tennis courts and other facilities.
Nor does it cover the value of equipment owned
by participants in sports. The New York Trust
Company reports, in its summer issue of The
I ndex, that annual expenditures by hunters and
fishermen appear to exceed, by a wide margin,
those in any other category. Bowling is rated the
leading contestant sport, basketball as the leading
sport in point of paid attendance, although baseball
has always been regarded as the “national pas-

time.”
0

Derby Day—Wagon wheels, baby buggy
wheels, wire wheels, wooden wheels, wheels with
or without tires were the fashion on August 30, as

.the first annual Pushmobile Derby got underway

in Chicago for boys under fourteen years of age.
Playground leaders and crafts instructors helped
the boys organize their teams and build suitable
racers. The pushmobiles had to resemble automo-
biles—that is, be more than just a platform on
wheels—Hand be constructed by a team consisting
of five boys, one to be the driver and four to be

pushers in the big race.

RECREATION

THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH

A lot of people’s eyes

were opened wide . . .

HE WAR CHANGED a lot of things, didn’t it?

For one thing, it brought about a great move-
ment of population. Texans learned that there
were other states in the Union, and Missourians
were surprised to learn that Texans didn’t know it
—or wouldn’t admit it!

People who had never before been more than a
few miles from where they were born moved far
afield from their native land. A lot of these peo-
ple’s eyes were opened wide when they saw some
of the things that other communities had—things
which they had never dreamed were possible back
home. Of course, sometimes it worked the 'other
way around. Sometimes a family would move into
a new community and be surprised to learn that
the town did not have a park, or that there wasn’t
a playground within easy walking distance from
their home.

The end of the war stopped a lot of the moving
around, although more than usual is still going on.
But it didn’t stop a lot of people from thinking—
thinking about what they had seen in other towns
in the way of community services, and Wondering
why their town couldn’t have some of the same.
Then those people who had moved from commu-
nities where good community living, as exemplified
in spacious parks, playgrounds under’ leadership,
and other such services, had been taken as a matter
of course, began to think, “Why can’t we have
those things here too?”

And characteristically, as Americans, they did
more than just think about it; they began to plan
and to act to get things accomplished.

This has been particularly true in the small
communities throughout the country. For, while
most of the major cities throughout the country
have had some sort of a recreation program for

SEPTEMBER 1948

T J. D. Robins, Jr.

several years, the number of smaller communities
which have had programs has been rather small.

Yet there are many such communities which
have demonstrated that a public recreation pro-
gram is just as desirable and just as possible for
a town of 10,000 as for one of 1,000,000 people.

Fired by the example of these few, more and
more small communities in recent years have
established programs. Their number has increased
rapidly. This is probably one of the most signifi—
cant developments in the recreation movement of
recent years, and there is every indication that
the growth of interest in recreation will continue
among small communities.

The establishment of these programs has not
always been an easy task. There has been nothing
spontaneous about it. It did not just evolve of its
own accord without guiding hands. No, many a
community leader has had to devote long and
heartbreaking hours in an effort to sell his towns-
people on a recreation program.

It would seem well and profitable to devote a
little time to a consideration of some of the steps
that were taken in these communities toward the
accomplishment of their goal.

A rapid scanning of the experiences of a number
of them reveals a myriad of pathways that were
followed. It becomes quickly apparent that there
is no one magic formula or set of procedures that
can be used by any given community which is
seeking to set up a program of recreation.

Communities differ greatly, one from the other.
And this is even more true among small commu-
nities than it is among large cities. Community
life, for example, in a new oil town in Texas is
about as different from life in a New England
town as a green apple is from a ripe one. To sup-

269

pose that there is a pattern that could be given to

each of these communities to follow, in setting up

a recreation program, is sheer folly.
Characteristic of an American is his individual-

ism. Try to regiment him and he revolts. Try to'

make a prototype of him and he slithers away in
rebellion. It’s the same way with communities.
Try to tell a Tennessean that they do something
a certain way in Oregon and he’ll tell you, “It may
work in Oregon, but this isn’t Oregon and it won’t
work here." '

Thus it is somewhat timorously that I venture
to set down some suggestions that you might fol-
low, if your community. is on the point of setting
up a program of recreation. Yet the suggestions
which I will make will be broad ones, and will
offer a wide latitude, so that you might use them
in part rather than in toto.

First of all, there always has to be a starting
point. This starting point might be with a single
individual. Just you, yourself, might see a need
for recreation and might desire to do something
about it. Now you as a single person can’t do
much by yourself. But you can rally others around
you. You might talk to others on an individual
basis. Or you might present your idea to a local
club group. The first thing you know you will
find that there are others in the community who
have been thinking along the same lines, but just
haven’t done anything about it.

The old maxim that “there is power in numbers”
contains a lot of truth. The more people you can
rally behind you the better. Get the support of
the Kiwanis Club, the Rotary Club, church groups,
and school officials—to name only a few. Then,
since the subject you are interested in affects the
whole community and not just a small part of it,
why not have a general public meeting? To this
meeting invite all interested individuals and repre-
sentatives of all possible civic groups.

A meeting of this sort offers an opportunity for
everyone to let down his°hair. Probably dozens of
different ideas will be advanced—-—some good, some
bad. But the important thing is to see that every—
one gets a clfance to express himself. All differ—
ences will not be resolved in this meeting, but
through a discussion a common meeting ground
will be reached on many points.

A logical outgrowth of such a meeting might be
the appointing of a committee to make a study of
the town, its recreational needs, its resources, its
interests, and finally to make recommendations on
how you should proceed for the future.

A community can make this study itself if it
wants to do so. Calling in an outside expert is

270

also desirable, but frequently the community feels
it can’t afford this expense. If the local community
decides 'to go ahead on its own, it will find an ex-
cellent tool in the pamphlet, “Know Your Com—
munity,” put out by the National Recreation
Association. This presents ways in which to pro-
ceed. It makes suggestions as to what facts are
important, i.e., tax structures, delinquency trends,
racial groups, present recreation facilities.

Coming out of this study will be a picture of
(I) what you have, (2) what you don’t have, (3)
what you need.

Now right here is where a lot of communities
bog down. After they have obtained the facts they
are not always sure how to use them. First of all,
there should be a wide dissemination of the results
of the survey. If the survey has revealed a woeful
lack of recreation facilities, it should be publicized.
Enlist the help of the local press, the radio sta-
tions. Use the information as the basis of talks
before community groups. By now you and your
committee know what the problem is; but try to
make everyone else in town aware of it too. Ac—
quaint them with the needs and inadequacies un—
covered. Endeavor to make them see that estab-
lishing a community recreation program should be
the concern of every Jack and Jill in town.

 

Along about this time you are going to run up
against some questions. People are going to .ask,
“How can we finance a recreation program? Who
would run it? How can we do anything without
facilities P”

These are big questions, but they aren’t stump-
ers. All communities are faced with them. Let’s
consider for a moment hOW'some of them have
been answered by other communities.

The question of money is always a big one, so
we will start with that one first. There have been
a lot of different ways tried for the financing of a
community recreation program. Among these are
voluntary contributions, fees and charges, member-
ship plans, taxation, and a host of others.

Out of the experience of these communities has
come an increasing realization that the tax method
offers more advantages than any other. So that

RECREATION

today, the tax-supported program of recreation is
the most common. Its advantages include, (I)
the burden falls on the Whole community and not
on just a part, (2) it is a relatively stable means
of obtaining revenue, (3) recreation is now recog-
- nized as a proper function of a municipal govern-
ment, and thlJS should be supported by taxes.

This last statement logically leads into the next
—that the program can probably be best adminis-
tered if it is considered to be a part of the munici-
pal government. Many cities have found that in
so considering it, it is desirable to set up a recrea-
tion commission whose function it is to administer
a program of recreation. The recreation commis-
sion type of administration is the most common
pattern to be found today in the various commu-
nities throughout the country.

Most small communities have found that trained,
qualified, paid leadership is a must. Preferably
some of this leadership should be year-round. This
is not to minimize the part that volunteer leader-
ship can play, but entire dependence upon volun—
teers has generally been found to be unwise.

Do you have to have a brand new community
center to get started? Or a new playground? It
would be nice if you did; but you can get started
without them. In fact these things will probably
come easier if you start with What you already
have and demonstrate the value of a program that
can be carried on with only meagre facilities.

Before long, peOple will start saying, “You
know they are doing a wonderful job with the
youngsters in that old room over Smith’s Grocery.
Why don’t we get busy around here and build a
place where they would have some decent facilities
to work with?” ‘ g   f: H I H is; , 

This whole process of community organization    l   W A. '7 .    (“553%
for recreation is somewhat like a revival meeting.  7 ' i' l" "     '   "
When the call goes out for people to come down
front, it frequently takes a little time for that first
person to step out in the aisle. But once you can
get one or two started, a lot of others follow. Of

    
            
  

DIAMOND

SUPER RINGER

Perfectly balanced for easy control. Drop
forged from special carbon steel, heat-
treated, to, prevent chipping or breaking. A
beautiful shoe designed for professionals
and for amateurs who know the value of a

good shoe.
.
Diamond Pitching Horseshoe Outfits

Diamond Super Ringer Shoes

Diamond Eagle Ringer Shoes
Diamond Standard Official Shoes

Diamond Double Ringer Shoes
Diamond Junior Pitching Shoes

Diamond Stakes and Official

Horseshoe Courts

D IAMO N D CA L K
HORSESHOE COMPANY

4610 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

 
 
 
 
 
   

 First Clmice

course, the persuading voice of the minister doesn’t for
stop when he sees the first one step out. No, he
can’t depend solely on the example of one or two 60] to,
to infiuence the others.
And you, if you are interested in seeing a pro- AVallable

gram of recreation established in your community,
can’t afford to stop your efforts once you have
interested a few others. Your votes, your efforts,
your time and your energies will be needed to help
swell the clamoring of those who see that recrea-
tion is desirable and important, and who will not —' r ' mt

rest until it has become a part of their own com- .  n“.- ,-,,”-_.,-,- M, n”- ,,,‘p ,
  MANUFACTURING COMPAN' o 5". LOUIS 3.

Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

     
     

MO.

   

SEPTEMBER 1948 271

ANY SMALL COMMUNITIES are finding it very
difficult to finance their total recreation pro-
grams through municipal appropriations alone.

Municipal governing bodies often fail to see clearly ,

the values received for tax monies expended on
recreation. Some recreation departments like that
in Charlottesville, Virginia, supplement their tax
revenue through their own earnings. This supple-
mental income serves to enlarge program possi-
bilities.

In 1933, Charlottesville started its recreation
program with a Citizens’ Recreation Advisory
Board, organized to promote municipal recreation
and to finance program until such time as the'city
could be persuaded to take over. The board de-
cided to try combining a recreation activity with a
money-making enterprise, and square dancing was
found to be the most desirable. There, in the foot-
hills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, square dancing
was by far the most popular social recreation. In
February, 1934, dances were started, and about
fifty-six dollars were taken in that month. These
first dances were club affairs, with cards issued
for members. The fee charged was twenty-five
cents for men—women free. A note in the early
records reads: “All unemployed persons apply to
Mr. for admission.” By April, the dances
were netting twenty-one dollars per evening. There
are no accurate records as to attendance or pro-
ceeds, but mention is made of “about 200”rat each
dance. During October, 1937, when an accurate
record was started, 954 people attended.

The first dances were operated entirely by vol-
unteers from the Recreation Advisory Board, who
hired the orchestra and managed details. In Octo—
ber, 1938, a quarrel among members of the string
band occurred. Dissenting members withdrew and
started free square dancing in another building;
and until January, 1940, the recreation department
dances were practically stopped. Profits during
this period dropped as low as three and a half
dollars per night, but the board persisted.

The orchestra is the heart of a square dance;
and after the squabble, the full-time director of
the department tried one after another, with none
of them proving satisfactory. The dances became
more and more of a problem, with mountain corn
frequently making its presence felt.

In January, a local musician offered to take over
the music problem on a percentage basis, and the
program began to pick up slowly, showing a profit
of about thirty-two dollars per dance, by April.
The advent of this orchestra marked a turning
point toward success. In November, 1941, a con-
tract was made with the orchestra leader for

 

272

A Financing the “Small

IN CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

Coolie Verner

twenty-five dollars a dance, if a gross of fiftydol-
lars or more was realized. This contract now pays
forty dollars per night and ten percent of the
profit in excess of fifty dollars, thus encouraging
greater effort to attract .larger crowds.

However, rapidly expanding attendance brought
more problems of rowdiness. Miss Nan Crow,
present city Director of Recreation, therefore hit
upon the idea of hiring policemen who were off
duty on dance night. The desk sergeant cooper-
ated wholeheartedly with the plan, and took over
the job of ticket-seller and general dance manager,
at five dollars per night. He collects all the money,
and pays the orchestra and help at the end of the
evening. For convenience and record, tickets are
sold to check attendance; and a form is maintained
listing income and expenses, with the signatures
of employees acknowledging their receipt of pay
at the close of the dance. A ticket-taker—also an
off-duty policeman—is paid four and a half dollars
per night, while two more officers maintain order
in and outside the hall for four dollars each.

Admission charges are reasonable. . Men now
pay forty-five cents, and women thirty cents, tax
included. The presence of policemen in no way
hinders enjoyment of the affair. They merely
serve to assure all of a wholesome, orderly evening
of recreation.

The recreation department pays no overhead for
use of the city—owned armory. Last year the total
net profit from the dances was $3,545; operating
costs amounted to $3,686, with federal tax at
$1,512. This is a big change from earlier days.

The program of earning revenue has enabled
Charlottesville Recreation Board to expand serv-
ices, providing funds that can be spent without
limitations often imposed through municipal sys—
tems, and serving to keep before the public the
needs and services of the recreation department.

RECREATION

'-
'

,I
,

‘

i
l

l

vigg—m— —

Recreation Program

IN DICKINSON, NORTH DAKOTA

Art Bell

ICKINSON IS JUST a small town of 7,000 in
D the western part of North Dakota. As a
community, it is the vital hub of an area with a
radius of almost 100 miles; and for a small town,
it has many of the large town opportunities, alert—
ness, and general tone of living.

Yes, and there is a full-time recreation program
there, now going into its third year of Operation.
Its start was humble . . . a start which dates back
to wartime.

During the war, a Navy V-12 unit was sta-
tioned in the Dickinson State Teacher’s college.
In order to oifer the sailors some recreational
opportunities, the community building of the town
was utilized. Local organizations financed the
operation through a central service organization.

Through this experience, the community began
to realize a responsibility to the youth of the town.
Thirty-six hundred dollars were raised for the
operation of a recreation program for 1946.
Through the Local Employment Service of the
National Recreation Association, a full-time Su—
pervisor was obtained; and the year-round recrea—
tion program came into being on January 1st, 1946.

As with many initial starts, it was modest.
Local residents didn’t know what kind of a pro-
gram they wanted or needed . . . they did know
that something was needed and wanted; and the
community was behind a recreation program all
the way. It was incorporated into a nonprofit
association. Memberships were sold to citizens in
the community at one dollar apiece, and funds
were solicited from businesses, organizations, and
individuals. Almost $5,000 was raised through this
drive, for the operation of the 1947 program.

Then one day in May, 1947, a now historic
event took place. The Recreation Association pro—
duced a Barn Dance. It included an hour show,
using local talent, followed by three hours of old-

SEPTEMBER 1948

time dancing. Complete cooperation was received
from the local radio station which broadcasted the
show and assisted in the publicity. The results far
exceeded the wildest dreams of the Recreation
Board. The talented all donated their time; the
radio station donated spot announcements; the
ticket takers offered their services; all this cut
down the expense. Over 900 people witnessed the
first barn dance, and now it has become a monthly
institution in the southwestern section of North
Dakota. People come from miles to see it, and to
take part in it.

Yes, every month since then, with the exception
of Christmas-time and Lent, there has been a Rec-
reation“Association-sponsored Barn Dance. The
capacity of the community building auditorium in
Dickinson is rated at 900 people sitting, and 200
standees. After the first barn dance, however, the
capacity estimate was forced upward. As many as
1,650 people have jammed every square inch of
the auditorium floor space, to see the barn dance
show, with most of them staying for the dance
afterward.

What about profits? The profits from the Barn
Dance finance the Dickinson Recreation Associa-
tion’s year-round recreation program. In 1947,,
seven barn dances were produced grossing
$4,089.12, with a net of $2,470.19. So far this year,
the net on two barn dances has been $1,009.86.
The admission prices are low—sixty-five' cents for
adults and forty cents for students including the
federal admission tax of twenty per cent. This
admission charge means a one hour show, and
three hours of dancing.

This is how one community has solved the finan—
cial problem which usually arises with a promotion
of a recreation program in the smaller towns. The
Barn Dance serves a dual purpose, that of financ-
ing the recreation program and, in addition, pro-
viding worthwhile entertainment for a large rural
area. It is estimated that about ninety per cent of
the spectators at an average barn dance in Dickin—
son come from the surrounding rural areas.

Maybe such a project will work for you,

 

273

 

AMERICAN é/Wplaygmund & Pool Equipment
Built to Gain and Hold 'YourC’m/m

O American’s reputation for making the very
finest Playground and Swimming Pool Equip-
ment dates back more than a third of a century,
to the company’s inception in 1911. American
men determined then to build only the best equip—
ment money could buy, combined improved de-
signing with superior materials and skilled crafts—
manship to provide scores of new, ideal play-
exercise opportunities for the nation’s children
and youth with absolute safety.

   
     

 _,
, 1-
.

we

   

274

2».

Not even during the recent difficult War years
has American ever compromised in materials,
design or construction; for, we regard the welfare
and safety of your youngsters as our responsi-
bility as well as yours. Instead, we’ve gone along
in the good old American way building the best
Approved Playground and Swimming Pool Equip-
ment made;  today more customers than ever
before continue to place their confidence in Amer-
ican at Anderson. American leads the field.

Learn why American Approved Playground and Swimming Pool
Equipment enjoys world-wide acceptance. Send for Literature, today.

d _ 7.-_.o- - V - - -f. ,__H,

 _ ' f  -.'-l

A M E R I C A N

PLAYGROUND DEVICE co.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

World's Largest Exclusive Manufacturers of Fine
Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

   

     
 
     

RECREATION

Personalities in the

Recreation News . . .

First Woman President

 

SEPTEMBER 1948

OR THE FIRST time in the history of the Indian—
Fapolis, Indiana Park Department, the president
of the board is a woman. Mrs. Agnes Peele Con-
nor was appointed to the board of Park Commis-
sioners on January I, 1948, and at the first meet-
ing of the group she was named president.

Mrs. Connor follows the aggressive lead of the
city’s new mayor, Al F eeney, in setting as a policy
of the Park Department, the keynote of service to
children through recreation as a major emphasis.

She is the mother of six grown children, four
boys and two girls. She is a member of the board
of directors of the Indianapolis Council of Social
Agencies, as well as a director of the Board of
Catholic Charities Bureau. Her position also places
her on the Board of Zoning Appeals, and the City
Plan Commission.

Her sons played on the football teams at Notre
Dame and Butler University, and were active in
basketball and other sports in high school; there-
fore an intense interest in sports and recreation
has been an integral part of her household for

many years. She supported the war agencies during the war and served
with the USO and OCD as a faithful volunteer.

In these activities, Mrs. Connor follows the pattern set' by her mother,
Mrs. Margaret Peele, who was a charter member of the Indiana State
Board of Charities. Although 'Mrs. Connor efficiently heads the Park
Board, she is also busy with her own household, and still finds time to
be a charming hostess.

275

  
   
     

 
 
 

 
    
  

WELL, THA
I .0.
FOOTBALL NEVER WT ER 55 7:61. 552°” y’ :0:
sEEMS TO WEAR   L 5 “WE
- If WATCHED THE VOIT

"WHAT MAKES ’7 ENGINEERS TEST
SOME OF THEIR NEw

POST-WAR ATHLETIC
EQUIPMENT -"

       
   
    
   

     
      

LS xv? ‘-

. .
1 r T
\Q.\ ‘ '
‘- ‘e '" ‘1 . «
.A’”;
p ' I-- -
I — - , . r .
,7 _ -' .. . ‘
- . .. " 1“ ‘ ‘
. ‘ ..  ' ‘ .'. T g ,
I ., r . .r
' -,.- 'r‘ , ' I -' .- 0 ~
1 , l q
"d‘, .1‘ f ' ' .

H“- ;_-. > A" -' l I

- _ “21-51:.2w5: II. ..

x  ,. ' ' u-THE COVER STILL. LOOKED
’7 ERAND NEw, NOT EVENA BARNACLE.
, ---aAI.L RADNTASSORSED A DROP
1 OF WATER -3er THE STEEL CHAINS
THAT HELD IT WERE RUINED !!

    
 
    

 

   
   
  
  

-:n-IAT FOOTBALL WASN'T EVEN
HURT! IT STILL MET OFFICIAL _. . '
STANDARD FOR WEIG E ' - 

5 H7; SHAP air-3 _ \

Iy --
J. . ,,
AND PERFORMNCE -»VOIT 31%..» 
mamas CAN TAKE IT"!  
I ,

LIGHT SURFACE WEAR "'1' AM VOIT BECAUSE  VOIT MEETS DON’T FORGET,

SURE NO OTHER BALL GOULD CAN HAN LE

EQUAL THIS vorr REcoRDL/ OFFICIAL  CMfHQOIIT BALL 0
IS WATERPROOF - VOIT IS

SCUFFPROOF - BETTER, Too y

1‘ VOIT OUTWEARS

UP TO 6
ORDINARY

    
  
 

  
  

‘-

   
 
 

 
      
   
    

-I SAW THE END OF A GRUELING
TEST WHERE 3 MEN BOUNCED

A STANDARD vorr BASKETBALL
OVER HALF A MILLION TIMES ON
A ROUGH STREET SURFACE!

RENE/"863! 00/7-

1. WEARS UP To SIX TIMES As 5. BACKED BY 25 YEARS OF RE-
lONG- SEARCH, TESTS AND ACTUAL USE.

2. MEETS OFFICIAL STANDARDS.
6. USED BY OVER 100,000

3- 5‘3"” PROOF- SCHOOLS, PLAYGROUNDS AND
4. WATERPROOF —WASHABI.E. CAMPS.

NEW YORK IO, CHICAGO 6, [OS ANGELES I I

W JWAE/ym WM

276 , ' RECREATION

George W. Braden

CHARLES E. REED

“SOMEBODY HAS SAID that we have to justify the
space which we occupy in the universe. I
do want to serve wherever I can fit in best even
though it takes me far away from my family and
fireside. I have always felt that anybody who runs
away from a real challenge is apt to get ‘mushy’
and become a victim of a certain amount of inter-
nal ‘dry rot’.”
That was George Braden’s final reply to an
urgent request from the Board of Directors of the
National Recreation Association, in July 1936,
that he help for a two-year period with some addi-
tional and important field service problems in
other areas of the country. No better expression
could be recorded of the spirit of dedication, and
of the driving force within, which characterized
his vigorous, productive service during the time
he was a member of the national field staff.

For nearly twenty-five years of that period he
was the Association’s field representative for the
thirteen states of the Pacific Coast and Inter-
mountain section. Between February 1921 and his
date of retirement—August I, 1948—George
Braden helped scores of communities, large and
small, throughout that vast area, to establish tax
supported play and recreation programs which
now serve countless numbers of boys and girls and
men and women. He traveled continuously, many
times being absent from his family and his home
in Pasadena for periods of six weeks. A

To each city and town visited and revisited, he
brought a knowledge of the problems at hand, and
of the methods followed by. other communities in
meeting them. For their guidance also, he and the
local communities were in possession of informa—
tion regarding the public recreation developments
in other sections, through services from the Asso-
_ ciation’s national headquarters. Public officials, lay
citizens and professional leaders in these commu-
nities were inspired .by his practical knowledge,
creativeness, courage and statesmanship.

In a very real sense George Braden’s service to
the recreation and leisure time interests of people
began with his earliest professional years. To him
the recreation movement has been a matter of pri-
mary importance.

Along with his work and his travels he has been

SEPTEMBER 1948

 

a student, both of his own and allied fields. It
was his constant custom, in the cities he visited, to
walk along over much of the area of the Commu-
nity. Thus he learned from first-hand observation
and from countless chats with local policemen,
workmen, lay persons, boys and girls what the peo-
ple did for their recreation and what they thought
was lacking in the community provision for recre-
ation. In dealing with local community leaders
and problems he was realistic in his approach,
quick to grasp essentials and to offer suggestions
for course of procedure. He often employed, with
effect, amusing analogies and anecdotes. Many
times perplexing situations were eased with a
ready sense of humor. He brought to his field
tasks firm conviction and great singleness of pur-
pose. ‘W here an important principle was at stake,
the presentation of unpleasant facts was made
without hesitation, when necessary. With it, how-
ever, was kindness and affection even for those
not in agreement.

To George Braden and to the Association have
come through the years—and especially in recent
weeks—innumerable expressions of appreciation
from the cities in which he served and from his
professional acquaintances, for the help he gave
through his many field visits, his talks and his
writings in the interest of community recreation.
His retirement means only a change of pace. Less
strenuously but no less fervently he will believe
in, and work for, the National Recreation Move-
ment. His will always be a triumphant life with-
out concern “to justify the space he occupies.”

¢

277

Emphatically

Ihe "LAST WORD”
in baskeibulls

Up and down the basketball floors of ment that is preferred by the most skillful and
America the balls illustrated here are critical “big-time” stars of this great sport. Wilson
accepted as the finest of their kind. O$cial basketballs, footballs, volley balls and
They’re "All-Americans” in any soccer balls are the LAST WORD in modern
school or college, or in any profes- design, balance, playing feel and durability. The

sional league. market offers nothing finer. See your Wilson
So, when you choose Wilson LAST-BILT or dealer. Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago,

TOP-NOTCH basketballs you will have equip- New York and other leading cities.
(A Wilson 8. Co., Inc. subsidiary)

ID'W/u‘nt

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 
 
 
  
     

 

,
IEMIER

0.31%.?!

EQUIPMENT

IT’S WILSON TODAY IN SPORTS

Recreation

Suggestion

Box

 

City-Wide Teen-Canteens*

R. URBAN J. SCHNEIDER of Rochester, New
York, writes of a new project growing out
of their playground programs: “Last year, after
making a careful survey of the playgrounds and
neighborhoods, and questioning hundreds of teen-
agers, we arrived at the conclusion that what was
needed was a number of small teen—age clubs in
strategic parts of the city, where teen-agers would
not have far to go in order to enjoy an evening of
wholesome recreation.

“These canteens were started primarily, there-
fore, to give teen-agers the opportunity of having
their own program and putting it into operation.
It is known that teen—agers, themselves, can pro-
duce a program which will attract the youngsters
to desirable places of their own, and keep them
out of ‘joints.’

“In order to convince the youngsters of our
sincerity we allowed them to choOse one night
each week for their canteen. This provided a mo-
tive for them also to select the type of program
they desired and at the same time keep it within
bounds. The program they elected usually con-
sisted of table games, music, dancing, occasionally
an orchestra, callers for square sets, movies, dis-
cussion groups, and so on.

“By doing this we gave the children the idea
the canteen was their very own, and it was an
easy matter to persuade the boys to care for the
coke bar and also to keep the club orderly and
neat.

“In some of the spots a boy acts as manager,
and several girls act as hostesses. This arrange-
ment makes for better discipline. ‘

“One of the main. reasons for the success of the
clubs is due to the fact that directors and children
worked together in making the transformation
from a shelter into a canteen which had ‘glamour.’
, And ‘glamour’ is just as important to a youth
center as it is to a night club.

“In the vernacular of the teen—agers, they are
‘sent’ when they find clubs which have been pat-
terned after night spots, with appropriate fur-
nishings, and a place where they can relax and

SEPTEMBER 1948

put their feet on the furniture without being repri-
manded.

“With the approach of the summer season we
deemed it—‘advisable temporarily to suspend the
operation of the clubs for the following reasons——
after discussing the situation with the teen-agers
we found a confiict with the outdoor program, also
a lack of proper facilities to accommodate the large
number of softball teams, who use, the shelters
as dressing rooms, and the storage of summer
equipment such as swings, lawn mowers, wheel-
barrows, lime. Also the director’s time was em—
ployed in supervising outdoor activities until nine
P. M ., leaving little time for the preparation and
use of the shelter as a canteen.

“Throughout the winter season the clubs were
decorated for each holiday, special dances were
held, such as Sadie Hawkins, Old Clothes, special
holidays and the like. Good teen-age clubs are no
flash in the pan—they are here to stay. We do
not hold the view that these clubs will act as a
cure-all for juvenile delinquency, but sincerely be-
lieve we will go a long way toward helping alle-
viate the serious situation which prevails today.
we are now accommodating approximately eight
hundred teen-agers weekly, and no doubt this
figure will be greatly exceeded when we start
operations again in the fall.”

 

*Reprinted from The Rochester Municipal Journal.

 

      
 
 
 
  
     
 
 

This “on location” shot
shows the great Babe giving
the screen Babe (Bill Ben-
dix) pointers on how he

$$  ‘ ’ , , f A gripped his Louisville Slug-
I'Q 4, ,i l":   ’1, f. ‘ ger bat.
@llERIEHEBRAUSBYEQ  I   h.   .

WEE“? 23$ '

   
    

  

  

Be sure to see “The Babe Ruth Story”

when it plays in your community. It

 
 

dramatically portrays the life of the im-

    
  

mortal “Babe” —— one of America’s 9
greatest success stories. You’ll see baseball’s .‘
most thrilling moments re-enacted by

an outstanding cast of players. 

, LOUISVILLE 
Sluoqin BAIs‘

 
 

 é - u. “‘1

280 RECREATION

George Herman Ruth

ABE RUTH DIED August 16, 1948, at the age
B of fifty-three, in Memorial Hospital, New
York City, at ‘last losing a valiant two—year light
against cancer of the throat.

Ruth, “The Sultan of Swat,” “The Man Who
Built Yankee Stadium,” “Mr. Baseball,” has
gripped the imagination of the American people
as few of their idols have. America’s interest and
affection for him will not die with him. As Arthur
Daley, of the N ew York Times, points out, he may
well become the Paul Bunyan of baseball.

Ruth had more than color. He had ability. He
was an outstanding pitcher. His powerful hitting
not only produced runs, it changed the game of
baseball from a tight defensive game to a game
of offense and power. He is credited with saving
professional baseball after the World Series in the
winter of 1920—1921. Ruth’s hitting and his glam-
our caught the interest of the fans and diverted it
from the “Black Sox” affair.

But Ruth’s contribution to the boys of America
exceeds by far his contribution to professional
baseball. His own boyhood was a difficult one.
He lived a prodigious life, a problem to his friends
and employers. He made much money, and spent
it freely—until 1929 when, after his second mar-
riage, he felt a sense of responsibility to himself
and to others.. At that time he began to realize
his influence on the youth of America and what
his leadership could mean to them.

As the N 320 Y orle T1711ch says editorially:

“The Babe also won a personal victory, to win
control over himself. . . . It took months, even
years, of pleading with him, by his friends, to get
him to take himself seriously, to make him real-
ize that he had become the hero of American
youth, that he had an obligation to the small boys
of America. He learned that, he conformed, and
he continued to hit home runs.”

Babe Ruth living was a symbol and an inspira-
tion to many a boy; his memory will always re-
main as an ideal of American boyhood.

SEPTEMBER 1948

 

Babe Ruth Foundation

Because so many are suggesting some form of
memorial for Babe Ruth, it is of interest that back
in 1947 The Babe Ruth Foundation, Incorporated,
was established to “engage in work for the public
good,” Babe Ruth himself becoming a director.

The initial program will stress activities aimed
to help children and youth. Sooner or later work
for the health and physical well-being of children
will be undertaken. In the meantime two areas
already decided upon are the promotion of the
recreation and leisure-time interests of children,
and work aimed to control and prevent juvenile
delinquency.

One of the projects chosen is the awarding of
annual Sportsmanship Prizes in high schools, pub-
lic and private, parochial and other church schools,
and in institutions for delinquent and dependent
children. Another project is the establishment of
eight or ten college scholarships, to be awarded
annually to deserving boys and girls.

The original members of the Board of Directors
were: J. Paul Carey II, New York; Commissioner
Albert B. Chandler, Versailles, Kentucky; Ford
Frick, New York; \Villiam Harridge, Chicago;
Melvyn Gordon Lowenstein, New York; Emory
C. Perry, Chicago; Grantland Rice, New York;
George Herman (Babe) Ruth, New York; and
Eric Johnston, Los Angeles. Shelby M. Harrison,
formerly Director of the Russell Sage Foundation,
is Executive Director, with office headquarters at
122 East 22nd Street, New York City.

. 281

An appeal for interesting women’s programs,
as recorded by Miss Lou Hamilton, Su-

perintendent of Recreation in San Antonio.

Women’s Activities

OMEN’S activities have made tremendous
W strides during, and as an out-growth of,
World VVarII. Reasons for this are the highly in—
tensilied athletic and recreational. programs which

were conducted by the defense plants, the indus-’

trial plants, the Wacs, the Waves; and the Spars.
Also, the USO. program for service women,
wives of service men, community volunteer work-
ers, and boomtown industrial centers during war-
time, has been a predominating factor in this de-
velopment. Through these various agencies wo-
men have been innoculated with experience in rec—
reation programs and all that these imply. To
them, recreation has become an actuality which has
developed into a necessity.

N ow with the development of the defense work-
er, the cutting down of industrial personnel and
the demobilization of the women’s services, it has
become a responsibility of local recreation depart—
ments to keep this interest alive, and to meet this
very real need.

Women who have been exposed to recreation
activities are now demanding similar programs in
cities and rural communities. Almost daily, in
San Antonio, some woman will drop into one of
our centers; and where, in the past, inquiries were
made only in regard to youth activities, they now
are including questions about what the center’s
program has to offer for women.

A representative of the National Federation of
Settlements stated that in the New York settle-

282

ment houses, where before the war women who
visited the houses were primarily interested in
child-care and problems pertaining to the home,
are now registering an amazing demand for leisure
time activities for themselves.

Out of this demand comes the problem of facili-
ties. The defense plants, the armed services and
the U.S.O. had the best. Will those of us with
limited facilities and budgets be able to meet this
need? Those fortunate enough to secure U.S.O.
buildings with their bowling alleys, gymnasiums
and other facilities will be more able to solve the
problem. Others without them will find this rapid
growth and interest in women’s activities a chal-
lenge. (Many U.S.O. buildings have been suc-
cessfully converted to community use).

In San Antonio, we are endeavoring to meet
this challenge by conducting activities other than
the usual figure—control classes and athletic activi-
ties, by organizing bridge clubs, craft classes,
square dance clubs, reading groups and groups
around various other interests of women. One of
our very interesting projects has been the co-
sponsorship of an English War Bride’s Club,
which was primarily a social group but attempted
to familiarize the brides with the customs of the
United States and Texas.

So we are faced with the fact that women are
now coming to our centers and saying to the
youth, “Move over, we want to play, too.”

Let’s make a place for them, shall we?

RECREATION

Taps for the ’48 Olympics

APS SOUNDED FOR the 1948 Olympics on the

fourteenth of August last. Twelve men in
scarlet and gold tunics blew a trumpet fanfare;
five cannons roared a farewell salute, as a subdued
and awe-filled crowd of eighty thousand watched
the impressive ceremony. As dusk descended over
W’embley Stadium, two colorfully uniformed Brit-
ish guardsmen lowered the Olympic Hag on its
standard, men and women from all countries lifted
their voices in song and, it was all over for another
four years.

The United States proved to be the shining star
this year, winning thirty-eight first places. Sweden
placed second with seventeen firsts, and Hungary’s
ten first places put her in third position. At the
last Olympics, in 1936, Germany had been the
winner with thirty-three first places. Twenty—four
firsts had given the United States second rating.

Totals for various teams are arrived at by giv-
ing ten points for a first place, five for a second,
four for a third place, three for a fourth, two for a
fifth, and one for a sixth. These are unofficial, as
individual championships are the real basis of the
games, and not team totals. However, according
to this, the United States won in track for men,
swimming for both sexes, in basketball, yachting,
shooting and weightlifting—far outweighing any
other competing nation. :

But the aspect of the 1948 Olympics which
seems to have made the greatest impression on
all concerned with the events, is the smoothness
with which they were handled, and the top-notch
competition which took place. Both within the
individual teams and the rival groups from differ-
ent countries, there were no unpleasant “incidents.”

The contests were both sportsmanlike and of rec—
ord merit.

At the closing ceremony, the president of the

International Olympic Committee, J. Sigfrid Ed—
strom, said:

“The ties of brotherhood and friendship have
been formed here not only on the field of competi—
tion, but also in the various Olympic athlete’s vil—
lages . . . The Olympic games cannot enforce
peace; to which all humanity aspires, but they give
an opportunity to all the youth of the world to
find out that all men on earth are brothers.”

In these words Mr. Edstrom summed up the

general feeling about the 1948 games, and the
world’s hope for the future.

SEPTEMBER 1948

 

n every field of sport in Proies
sional. Semi-P-o and Ar-‘a ‘cur Base-
ball - d Sof*ball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Goldsmifh Sporls
Equipment is recognized as a lfall-
marl: of quality and unvarying
performance.

9 ‘   .7226. :r:‘:‘ .-::'.::.:'::-; 2:;

u I
‘I‘III.Ii II III II II
II IIIiCI'I 'Lgaiaol LII."

CIHGINHAT! Ii. OHIO. U. 5. A

 

For Safer, Cleaner
Swimming Pools

“Bull 4409”

- Wile 33an

Not a general purpose cleaner but developed
Specifically for removing rust stains, lime de—
posits, soap oil, body grease, algae formation
from swimming pools, shower rooms, porcelain
fixtures.

Leaves floors and decks practically slip-
proof. Minimizes conditions that breed and
spread infectious germs.

Cleans quickly even where hard rubbing with
ordinary cleaners has failed. You simply
sprinkle SAF-T-KLENZ on a damp surface.
mOp lightly and flush with clear water. Harm-
less to hands. clothing. floor or drains. Un-
scented. No carbolic or disinfectant odor.
Eomes in economical concentrated dry powder
orm.

Try SAF-T-KLENZ for 30 days. If not en-

tirely satisfied we will cancel the invoice.

You won’t even be asked to return the un-
used portion.

 

Write for Liberal Free Sample!

BERMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
719 Superior Street, Toledo 4, Ohio

283 i

 

MOVIES \ C RAFT
0 for Incentive to Participate— S l I P P L I E S ,
O for Worth-W’hile Learning, Too! '

Good motion pictures will enliven interest in Cleveland Crafts offers a largeselection of handi-

your recreational and educauonal programs— craft supplies for children and adults. Prices are

Incentive and Training Films reasonably low and each order is given prompt
Football 0 Basketball 0 Other Sports attention. Among the various craftwork supplies are:
Camping 0 Nature Study 0 Arts & Crafts
Wholesome Entertainment Films ° Liming ° Flemm“
Features 0 Cat-teens 0 Comedies ' Leail‘e' ' Pipe-CleanerCrait
Free Films 0 Metals 0 Indian Beads
Travel 0 Science 0 Vocations . cork . Pyr°9raPhV
Many in Color 0 Felt 0 Etching on Glass
Write Today for the New 1948-1949 . Too" . Handcra“ Becks .
CATALOG OF SELECTED MOTION PICTURES ° She'lcrai’r 0 RubberMoIds
to Dept. “R” O Textile Painting

CATALOG OF"

 .‘t   C l  l O  '  L   Handicraft Supplies

   
   

 

‘ .{YtM‘ C. A. Mdnm PICTURE. BUREAU)  Sent free upon request to authorized

:1, +5 ' - ~ 3, .21..“-      1   3:. director: of recreational program:

 ‘ 303K '1? -f;f=232*~“-‘-=:~;;a:’,' . “SAN mmsw 2- ’T"

 3% Makes Ave.  :;~.‘.=.-‘~‘  ' 35: our 5:. 

 'Ci‘ligkm 3 ,  v .7;  gangs 4 ' 
:9": LE Snag _s¢.'  " 30‘: Mums." .e    CO.
—.     . a - .  ‘ 770.74 CARNEGIE AVE. .CLEVELAND I5. OHIO

Better team work and improved scores are possible when playing a ball that is accurate in
flight—sure in grip and well balanced.

Thirty years of experience, with constant improvement, and better-built balls, is
another "Best by Test” reason for specifying Wintark. Official in weight, shape and size—
it meets every requirement essential to TOP PERFORMANCE "in play and in economy.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

WEAVER WINTARK SALES (0. p.05$???lsséiiSMF‘ifr'H‘s'i‘éééi?553%3'333‘.

 

2254 RECREATION

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to- the Recreation Worker

 

Parents’ Magazine, April 1948

We Plan for Play, Marion Churchill White.
Indoor Roughhouse, Vivian L. Cadden.

Camp Fire Girl, April 1948

A—Tisket, A-Tasket—Let’s Weave a Basketl,
Frankie Culpepper Georges.

Camping Magazine, March 1948

Foundation for Peace, George E. Jonas.
Day Camping Today, Reynold E. Carlson.
Robin Hood Goes to Camp, Raymond C. Vance

and C. G. Goodsell.
Pioneer Camping, Ted Yard.

Beach and Pool, March 1948

How to Organize an Aquatic Club, William P.

Massof. I _
Foot Infections—Their Prevention and Care,

William G. Hatch. '

Construction and Operating Details of the Indian
Foothills Park Pool.

A Swimming Program for the Physically Handi-
capped, Carroll L. Bryant. '

Training the Municipal Lifeguard.

Parks and Recreation, April 1948

If the Governor Says, Allen T. Edmunds.
Flood Control Reservoirs in Recreation Develop-

ment, Harvey S. Crass.
Folklore and Nature Education, Arthur T. Wilcox.

Park Employment Policies, George B. Caskey.
The Maintenance Mart.

100% STEEL Ping-Pong Table

For Outdoor or Indoor Use

THE SUPPLY IS LIMITED . . . HURRY!
SOARING STEEL PRICES FORBIDS
ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION

Here is the all-metal ping-pong table you have
been hoping for. Sturdily constructed to last for
years. Withstands extreme abuse from play or
weather. It will not dent or warp. A solid steel
plate center net is furnished with each table.
Attractively finished regulation size eight-legged
table, in two sections, specifically designed and
constructed for use in . . .

Playgrounds. Camps. Resorts
Recreation Centers, Public Parks

0 No sharp corners or edges
0 Regulation bounce

0 Outlasts wooden tables by many years
thereiore much more economical

Price $98.50 (includes crating)

OUTDOOR METAL TENNIS TABLE 00.

ROUTE 4 AND ARLINGTON AVE.. TEANECK. N. I.

 

SEPTEMBER 1948

9 Books Received

 

Boy’s Book of Rifles, The, by Charles Edward Chapel.
Coward-McCann, Incorporated, New York. $3.50.

Christ in the Drama, by Fred Eastman. The Mac-
millan Company, New York. $2.50.

Encores on Main Street, by Talbot Pearson. Carnegie
Institute of Technology Press, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania. $3.00.

Encyclopedia of Home Care and Repair, by William
Hennessey and William W. Atkin. Lantern
Press, Incorporated, New York. $3.95.

Life with Family, by Jean Schick Grossman,. Apple-
ton-Century-Crofts, Incorporated, New York.

$3.00.  ' '

More Fun with Magic, by Joseph Leeming. J. B.
Lippincott Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
$2.50.

New Mexico Quarterly Review, The. University of
New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mex1co. $.60.

Opera Ballerina, by Marie-Jeanne. Dodd, Mead and
Company, New York. $2.50.

Public Welfare Directory, The, edited by Howard L.
Russell. American Public Welfare Association,
Chicago, Illinois. $1.80.

Therapeutic and Industrial Uses of Music, by Doris
Soibelman. Columbia University Press, New

York. $3.00.

Wild Folk at the Pond, by Carroll Lane Fenton. The
John Day Company, New York. $2.00.

 

 

 

 
  
       

  

Center of
the “Center”

Watch the crowds around the
TRAMPOLINE . . . Youngsters
Bounding . . . Oldsters Watching

; . . . Everybody’s Popular Sport-F
TRAMPOLINING . . . Founded by NISSEN,

Creator of America’s First Standard

TRAMPOLINE**

Indoor—Outdoor Use . . . Write for
FREE LITERATURE '

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

* Reg. U. S. Pat. Ofiice

          
  
 
    
  
      

200 A Ave. NW Cedar Rapids. Iowa

 

285

Authors in This Issue . . .

ART BELL—-—Park and Recreation Supervisor,
Dickinson Recreation Association, Dickinson,
North Dakota. Article on page 273.

HAROLD HAINFELD—Director of Summer Rec-
reation, Tenaily, New Jersey. Article on page 258.

HARLAN G. METCALF—Professor of Recrea-
tion, Cortland State Teachers’ College, Cortland,
New York. Article on page 250.

CLARENCE S. ‘PAINE Director of Oklahoma
City Libraries, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Article
on page 247.

CHARLES E. REED—Manager, Field Depart-
ment, National Recreation Association. Article on

page 277.
DOROTHY RICHARDSON—Former U.S.O. Pro—

gram Director, National Board Y.VV.C.A. Article
on page 252.

 

J. D. ROBINS, J.R.-—Secretary, Recreation and
Group Education Council, Council of Social Agen—
cies, Kansas City, -Missouri. Article on page 269.

COOLIE V ERNER — Associate in Community
Services, Recreation Consultant, University of
Virginia, Extension Division. Article on page 272.

 

CREATIVE CERAMICS by Lester. A complete book on
the ceramic crafts. Discusses and demonStrates how

to make tiles, figurines, etc; how to design; and
how to prepare and cast from molds. $3.75

LET'S WHITTLE by Pyrm. A new book which tells
anyone all they will need to know about this craft.

Covers all details, direction of grain, starting points,
patterns, etc. $2.50

GEM CUTTING by Willems. An art made easily un-
derstandable whether one has technical knowledge
or not. Ideal as beginners’ inStruction book. Ac-
curate, step-by-step details of all processes. $3.50

A BOOK OF LITTLE CRAFTS APPLIED LEATHERCRAFT

Powers $ 3 . 7 5 Groneman .5 3 . 00
“FIRST-JOINER" CRAFTS MODERN METALCRAFT

Jacobson $1.75 Fetrer. $3.50
THE PARTY TABLE RUGMAKING CRAFT

Powers $3.00 Allen $2.00

Order tbrougb your dealer or direct. Ask for free circular,
"BOOKS on the CRAFTS” describing over 100 titles.

THE MANUAL ARTS PRESS, 28 Duroc Bldq.. Peoria: 3. Ill.

 

“A valuable text on both the graduate
H and undergraduate level”

COMMUNITY RECREATION

By MEYER and BRIGHTBILL

This new basic text is a complete survey of community recreation in

America, with “some of the philosophical ‘why’ . . .

a portion of the

statistical ‘what’ . . . and much of the practical ‘how’ of the most up-to-

date recreation techniques.” A Workshop section following each chapter

 suggests helpful projects. ‘Illustrated with pictures, charts, and tables.

Boston New York Chicago

286

717 pages. $5.00

D. C. HEATH AND COMPANY

Atlanta San Francisco Dallas London

RECREATION

 

Encores on Main Street

By Talbot Pearson. Carnegie Institute of Tech-
nology Press, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. $3.00.

NTEREST IN THE community theatre has spread
I rapidly across the country, especially since the
war, and membership in community theatres is
larger than it ever has been. Therefore, there has
sprung up a definite need for a book of this type
—the first of its kind to appear in years—min which
an authority offers helpful suggestions and ways
of working with people for the directors of such
theatres, who daily face problems of human rela~
tions. Duties and responsibilities, organization,
budgeting, choosing play and cast, allotting time
for various projects, public relations, working with
committees, are given a thorough going-over. (A
bibliography is included.) Says the author, “Pro-
fessional leaders have to remember always that
nothing is routine when the rewards are not mone—
tary, and that in the eyes of the contributor even

the smallest donation of time and enthusiasm is -

exceptional and therefore worthy of recognition}:

Talbot Pearson, now a member of the Depart-
nient of Drama at Carnegie Institute of Technol—
ogy, has had years of experience in almost every
type of community theatre, and was at one time
director of the Dallas Little Theatre. The writing

of this book was made possible by a grant from
the National Theatre Conference.

Purchase, Care and Repair of
Athletic Equipment

By Kenneth L. Meyer. Educational Publishers,
St. Louis, Missouri. $3.50.

AVETERAN COACH went to a sporting goods
dealer to inspect new basketball uniforms.
The salesman asked, “How about this rayon and
durene jersey? What have you decided?” The

SEPTEMBER 1948

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

coach thought for a moment and then said that he
would take the durene.

The fact that durene is a finish and not a fabric
was obviously unknown to the coach. This fact is
but one of the many tips on how to buy, what to
buy and where to buy, presented here. Systems
for equipment inventory, marking, storage, check-
outs and specialized care and repair are analyzed.
Administrative phases such as athletic budgets,
sources of funds, and equipment safety are thor-
oughly discussed. A complete index makes the
book an excellent reference, and a bibliography
points to other sources of information.

Written to provide training in equipment ad-
ministration, this has been adOpted as the text for
a course of the same title initiated this summer at
Indiana State Teachers College in Terre Haute.

HOBBIES

Masks and How to Make Them, by Doane
Powell. Bridgman Publishers, Incorporated,
Pelham, New York.- $4.00.

ASK MAKth IS fun, have you tried it? There
M is expert help in this fascinating book, which
contains extremely effective illustrations by the
author, showing all sorts of masks, and diagrams
as to how to make them. Doane Powell is a por-
trait painter, sculptor, cartoonist, art instructor,
art director, lecturer. With this background he
brings us a new conception of what constitutes a
mask, and has developed a mask that is adaptable
to our present-day life and dress. According to
Mr. Powell, you, too, can make masks. Here he
takes the beginner step by step through the proc—
esses of construction, of creating and reproducing
personalities, introducing him to the fun of creat—
ing something with the hands.

287

Let’s Whittle, by Leroy Pynn,
Jr. The Manual Arts Press,
Peoria, Illinois. $2.50.

ROJ‘ECTS WHICH will make
Pyou want to sharpen your
knife and begin! Each idea is
simply planned and presented
with details which are illus-
trated in two hundred line
drawings and photographs.
Important points, such as the
direction of grain for each project, the starting
points, various views as the work progresses, full-
size patterns are covered. This book is planned
for anyone who is interested in finding a hobby
that pays big dividends in satisfaction to the
worker.

 

hfoney-Making Hobbies, by Joseph Leeming.
J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. $2.69.

HO WANTS TO make some extra money? Who

doesn’t? Here are more than one hundred
ways to do it, as explained by a well—known author
of other hobby books. Mr. Leeming gives down-
to-earth tips on marketing, probable prices, sources
of raw material, and enthusiastically describes the
introductory steps to profitable hobbies in miscel-
laneous categories—from designing wire and plas-
tic jewelry, and making gourd rattles, vases and
bowls, to fish farming and beekeeping. The author
says, “Each one of us is different, and has differ—
ent interests and ideas, so it is only natural that
each of us has a different idea of what kind of a
hobby is the most fun. I have tried to give all
information that is needed to enable a reader to
weigh the particular hobby in his mind and decide
if it is one that he or she wants to take up. Then,
if a reader wishes to go ahead, he can get complete
instructions and guidance from books listed in the
bibliography in the back of this book.”

Plastics Made Practical, by Chris H. Groneman.
The Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. $4.50.

ANEW ERA OF materials, skills, and products has
been inaugurated with the advent of plastics.
As interest develops and more products reach the
consumer, it is a foregone conclusion that this
material also lends itself to educational values in
the school, industrial shop and laboratory, and to
recreational aspects of the home and community
workshops.

This book is intended to serve as a reference
guide for elementary information on a few of the

288

more commonly known plastics, and to provide
suggestions for processes which will aid the begin-
ner in this new, creative handcraft. A section
has been provided with working drawings, photo-
graphs, and complete instructions, which have
been thoroughly tested, for making plastic articles.
Particular emphasis has been given the treatment
of two of the most popular plastics, namely Lucite
and Plexiglas. Most of the processes and projects
are applicable to the other groups of plastics as
well. _

The appendix provides useful information for
the beginner in locating many of the materials and
supplies essential. The tools employed in this
handcraft are, in general, those commonly avail-
able for such work.

 

 

OfliCers and Directors Of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

HOWARD BRAUCHER, President _

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-PreSIdent

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer _

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. W'. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N._ J.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
HOWARD BRAUCHER, New York N. Y.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan Cit , Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Su ar Hill, N. .
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, . Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEN, Au uSta, Me.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, OOdbury, N. Y.
PAUL MOORE, JR., New York, N. Y.
MRS. SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

' J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

 

Don’t buy until you see our free. illustrated catalog. Write Today!

sports equipment co.

1 FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN k
AlMOSl’ A HAlf (ENIURV 0f lEADERSHIP

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

October and November

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Amarillo, Texas
October 4-8

Lawton, Oklahoma
October 11-15

Texarkana, Texas
October 18-22

Oak Ridge, Tennessee
November 8-12

Maryland
October 11-15

Vermont
October 018-29

Prince Frederick, Maryland
November 8-12

La Plata, Maryland
November 15-18

Liberal, Kansas
October 4-8

Clovis, New Mexico
October 11-15

El Paso, Texas
October 25-29

San Antonio, Texas
November 1-5

Corpus Christi, Texas
November 8-12

Wichita Falls, Texas
November 29—December 5

Atlanta, Georgia
October 18-29

Mrs. Mary Nan Gamble, Public Housing Administra-
tion, 725 T. & P. Building, Fort Worth, Texas

Mrs. Otto Howard, 1314 Ash Street

Mrs. Mary Nan Gamlble, Public Housing Administra—
tion, 725 T. & P. Building, Fort Worth, Texas

T. R. Jarrell, Director of Recreation

Miss Ethel E. Sammis, State Department of Educa-
tion, Lexington Building

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Director of Recreation, State
House, Montpelier, Vermont

H. R. Hughes, Superintendent of Education, Calvert
County

F. Bernard Gwynn, Superintendent of Education,
Charles County

Mrs. Mary Nan Gamble, Public Housing Administra-
tion, 725 T. & P. Building, Fort Worth, Texas

Mrs. Mary Nan Gamble, Public Housing Administra-
tion, 725 T. & P. Building, Fort Worth, Texas
Ernest F. Craigo, Superintendent of Recreation

Miss Lou Hamilton, Director of Recreation

W. P. Witt, Superintendent of Recreation

Mrs. Henry W. Barton, 2002 Garfield Avenue

Virginia Carmichael, Director of Recreation

For those who are interested in recreation training opportunities, special attention is called to the training sessions
which will be conducted during the National Recreation Congress at Omaha, Nebraska, September 26-30. One-day
sessions are planned for church recreation leaders, rural recreation leaders and small community recreation leaders,
respectively. In addition, daily sessions are planned for those interested in music, drama, arts and crafts, social
recreation and folk dancing. Members of the Association’s training staff, as well as other recognized leaders, will
take part. For further information, write to T. E. Rivers, Secretary, Recreation Congress Committee, 315 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

WHO IS THE
SMILING MAN ?

CLUES:

I. His children’s education
is as good as paid for.

2. He's moving into his
dream house in 1958.

3. He's going to get $4 back
for every $3 he invests to-
day, after 10 years.

4. He's helping his country
and himself, at one and the
same time.

ANSWER: The Smiling Man is the man

who invests regularly in U. S. Savings
Bonds. What he has done—actually—is

to guarantee his own future, to insure the
security and happiness of his family.

Every Savings Bond you buy will stretch

your smile a little further. They’re the --

wisest investment you can make, today—
they pay you back $4 for $3 after ten
years, and that’s a promise by Uncle Sam!

What’s more, every dollar you invest in

 

Savings Bonds is helping to fight inflation
over here, helping to maintain democracy
over there. "

If you draw a salary, enroll in the easy,
painless, automatic Payroll Savings Plan.
Or, if you aren’t on a payroll but have a

checking account, use the equally con-
venient Bond-A-Month Plan.

Inquire today about. these sure, profitable
savings plans; And watch your smile grow
along with your savings!

AUTOMATIC SAVING is SURE SAVING-
v.5. SAVINGS BONDS

 

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the Magazine Publishers
of America as a public service.

