 

Contents

 

November 1949

A Dream (editorial), Howard Braucher 365

Recreation Comments . . . Letters to and
from the Editorial Department. . . . . 367

An Appeal for Understanding . . . . . . . . 370

Announcing Two Important Publications 372

Work That Is Deeply Satisfying,

deLesseps Story Morrison . . . . . . . . . . 373
“There Are No Strangers Here,”

Tony Patch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
The Role of the Federal Government in

Public Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
The 1949 Congress in Review . . . . . . . . 386
Random Moments at the 3lst National

Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . 388
Travels of a Show Wagon . . . . . . . . . . . . 393

The Place of Recreation in the Total
College Curriculum . . . Part III—A
Student Looks at the Question,

Ray Wilkinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Adventure in Tennessee,

Paul D. Olmstead . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 396
Wollman Memorial Center . . . . . . . . . . . 403
Christmas

The Christmas Spirit,

Gene Rotsch and John C. Lilly . . . . . . 382
A Santa Claus Village . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Yuletide Frolic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Santa Claus School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405

For a Merry Christmas. . .Inside Back Cover

Thanksgiving

Thanksgiving, Lydia il'Iaria Child . . . . . . 368
What We All Shouid Know About
Thanksgiving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
What Is Your Thanksgiving I. Q.? . . . . . 371
What Is Your Thanksgiving I. Q.?—
Answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407

Regular Features

World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399
Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . .. 408
Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 409
Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 410

New Publications—
Children’s Book Week . . . . . . . . . . . . 411

On the Cover

Boy with Book, by James Chapin, courtesy
Associated American Artists Galleries, 711
Fifth Avenue, New York. Available for $7.50

matted and in color.

Books are keys to wisdom’s treasure;
Books are gates to lands of pleasure;
Books are paths that upward lead;

Books are friends. Come, let us read.

EMILIE POULSSON

Inscription in the Children’s Reading Room,
Hopkinton, ilIassachusetts, Public Library.

PHOTO CREDITS: We are indebted for photographs to: Artis-
tie Picture Publishing Company, Incorporated, New York, page

368', Rubens Studios, page 384; Detroit, Michigan, Board of
Education, page 411.

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-Class matter June 12.
1929, at the Post OHice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Section 1103, Acr of OCtober 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyright 1949. by the National Recreation Association, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME PORN-THREE, NUMBER EIGHT PRICE 35 CENTS

Recreation

 

N 0 VEMBER 1 949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

A DREAM

From the mountains come visions and sermons and commandments in all
centuries and in all countries.

Down from the mountains came a group of wise men—wise men from many
lands and many ages.

And I heard them as they came singing.
And what of wisdom do you bring me
From the ages since the world began?

I asked them and they answered me in song and this is what they answered
as I caught some of the words.

* * *

Know ye that there is one God and He is a God of Life and Light.

Let first things be first.

First—live—thou and thy children forever and forever, thou and all that
are within thy gates. The world belongeth unto God and unto His chil-
dren forever and forever. .

Live each day and a‘ccept no plan for the days that leave no time nor place
nor way for living.

Howard Branchefs edi_ Cherish all that buildeth man, forever and forever.

toria 15 will appear Know ye that our God is a God of music, of drama, of the arts, of sports,

through Volume Forty- of nature.
three. A few of these

, _ Know ye that 'all that buildeth men belongs to God and to thee—forever
were written by him

and forever.

shortly before his death, I , . . . .
May 22,1949,andhave Forget not the dlgmty and the worth of the 1nd1v1dual as a child of God

never appeared in print; of Whom thou art one.

others are reprinted by

Ever and always—whatever the cost keep thyself free—free from every
request.

form of slavery.
Remember this God’s world may be kept friendly.

Remember again and yet again the world in which thou livest belongeth
unto God and unto thee.

 

NOVEMBER 1949 ' 365

366

A DREAM

Keep thou thy world as a place to be lived in, thou and thy children and
thy children’s children—forever and forever.

Let beauty and truth and honor be first.
Let neither gold nor silver nor brass nor stocks nor bonds nor lands nor
factories be placed first before thy God and the needs of His people.

If thou wilt place God and His people and the needs of the life of man first,

then know ye that all other things needful shall be added unto thee
forever and forever.

Give honor to thy father and thy mother and thy home.
Build strong thine own home as a fortress of thy God.

Men and women—be not afraid—let not sex have domination over thee in

a world full of beauty and comradeship and so much that belongs to
God and man.

=|= * *

Hate not—except the hate that is within thine own heart.
Kill no man’s spirit, thine own, nor thy neighbor’s.
Care for thy neighbor’s welfare as for thine own.

Desire intelligence, wisdom, freedom from fear and want, and life itself for
thy neighbor as for thyself.

Desire naught for thyself that thy neighbor with equal gifts may not secure
for himself.

Keep not from thy neighbor aught of beauty that has value for thee.

“Do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with thy God and thy neighbor.”

Be not a slave to the science and the knowledge thou hast thyself created.

Bow not down to the tools and the machines thou hast made. Neither
shalt thou worship them.

Let science and knowledge, let tools and machines serve God and man.

* * =I=

Bow not down to the institutions thou has created nor worship them. Let
thine institutions serve thee.

On the seventh day and on many special days sing and rejoice and let thy

labor be such as buildeth thy soul and maketh thee to be glad thou art
alive.

Rejoice that thou mayest work to build a world in which thou and thy

neighbor, thy children and his children may be equally secure forever
and forever.

Rejoice and yet again rejoice that thou art a child of God and all men may
become thy brothers—forever and forever.

=|= =|= *

The dream passed—the words died slowly away—yet the triumphant
note of the song—rejoice and yet again rejoice—forever and forever re-
mained. Some of the singers seemed to me to have come from Egypt, from
China, from Babylonia and Assyria, from India, from Greece, from Rome,
from the North Lands, and from the South Lands, from many holy lands
of many pe0ple. But always the people who sang—in the dream—~were
coming down from the mountains and a special light was on their faces. I
believed that some of them were thinking of Mount Olympus, some of
Mecca, some of Jerusalem, but all were turned toward the future.

April 1944 HOWARD BRAUCHER

RECREATION

RECREATION

enamel/Lie

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

TO RECREATION :

“Regarding the cartoon cover on your April
RECREATION magazine, we had it blown up to a
huge poster size, and used it as part of a window
display about department activities in San Fran-
cisco’s largest department store—The Emporium.
It caused much interest and amusement for shop-
pers and passers—by.”

EDWARD A. MCDEVITT, Secretary,
San Francisco Recreation C 0m-
mission.

“I would like to tell you how much I appreci-
ated the May issue of RECREATION in which you
gave so much attention to the needs of those whom
you have very aptly termed ‘the Older Adults.’
I think it is a very fine number and the suggestions
offered in the articles are of particular interest to
us in view of the fact that we are endeavoring to
meet some of the needs of these older citizens
through the medium of our Eventide Homes for
Men and Sunset Lodges for Women.”

E. T. WATERSON, Men’s Social
Service Secretary, Salvation Army,
Canada.

“Your article in the September issue of RECREA-
rI°ON—--‘An Approach to Recreation Planning’—
was read with a great deal of interest. Why can’t
you give us more on recreation planning, both
comprehensive and in detail, in the RECREATION
publication? I believe it would be appreciated by
both the planners and the persons engaged in the
operational phase of recreation.”

THOMAS C. JEFFERS, landscape
architect, Washington, D.C.

“The Howard Braucher memorial publication is
an inspiration to the cause of recreation.”

W. W. LAIRD, Wilmington,
Delaware.

NOVEMBER 1 949

‘1
TO SUBSCRIBERS AND CONTRIBUTORS:

This is just “hello” and a reminder following
up the conversations which we had with many of
you at the Congress in New Orleans. To all and
everyone, whether we met you or not, we’d like
to point out that we are eSpecially interested in re-
ceiving from you, among other materials, the fol-
lowing items:

Television—W'ays in which the use of televi-
sion can be integrated into an active recreation

program. How can it be used to stimulate greater
participation ?

Games—Two or three of-your favorites—those
most pOpular and successful at your social gather—
ings, or on the playground (please specify which).

Poetry—Some of you must have a poetry writ-
ing group in your program. You no doubt have
noticed that we are publishing poetry from time
to time. We could use more of it!

Humor—-Doesn’t anything humorous ever hap-
pen while conducting a recreation program? Come
now! We want some humorous incidents, enter—
taining little human interest stories. There must

be hundreds of them, but only you can give them
to us.

How-to-Do—W’e’d like to have more how-to-
do material, telling others not only of some good
program activity, for instance, but explaining why
it is successful and telling readers how-to-do it.

Crafts—More good crafts material, please;
craft projects in detail.

Send us the kind of material that you’d like to
see in RECREATION!

DOROTHY DONALDSON
Managing Editor, RECREATION

367

368

 

 

Copyright Artistic Picture Publishing Company, Inc.

‘ggHANKSGIVING

Over the river and through the wood,
To grandfather’s house we go;
The horse knows the way

To carry the sleigh
Through the white and drifted snow.

I , Over the river and through the wood,
Trot fast, my dapple-gray.’

Spring over the ground

Like a hunting hound!
F or this is Thanksgiving Day.

Over the river and through the wood,
Now grandmother’s cap I spy!
Hurrah for the fun!
Is the pudding done?
Hurrah for the pumpkin pie!
LYDIA MARIA CHILD

RECREATION

What we All should know
about THANKSGIVING

HANKSGIVING, as we all know, began long ago

as a New England holiday, and for 200 years
was confined to that part of the country and ad—
jacent regions. When, driven by religious perse-
cution from England, the Pilgrims landed at Ply—
mouth Rock that bitter December, in 1620, they
did not find a country of abundance. One out of
every two families perished from cold, hunger or
'disease. Therefore, when fortune finally smiled
upon the little group and November, 1621, brought
a bumper crop, Governor William Bradford or—
dered a three-day feast of thanksgiving.

It is from this three-day celebration, and a simi-
lar day of religious thanksgiving held by the Pi]—
grims on July 30, 1623, to express thanks to God
for a favorable change in the weather that saved
the crop and prevented wholesale starvation, that
our modern Thanksgiving is derived.

It was not until 1789 that the president of the
nation—George VVashington—proclaimed it as a
national holiday. He designated Thursday, No—
vember 26, as a day of general thanksgiving on
which we would also ask God “to enable us all,
whether in public or private stations, to perform
our several and relative duties properly and punc-
tually.” What has been lost sight of, however, is
that apparently he was not pleased with this initial
celebration, for he did not again proclaim the holi—
day until six years later, when he moved the date
to March, 179 5. President John Adams, too, chose
dates at variance with the New England concep—
tion of the holiday—and appointed a day in May,
1798 and in April, 1799, for such festivities.

After Adams left office, no president did any—
thing about it until Lincoln, in the midst of a civil
war, again set Thursday, November 26, “as a day

of thanksgiving and praise to our benelicent Fa-
ther who dwelleth in the heavens.”

NOVEMBER 1949

 

{\r
f

This, actually, was the beginning of our modern
Thanksgiving day, and much of Mr. Lincoln’s
simple and beautiful message to the nation is as
timely today as it was when it first was delivered:

The year that is drawing toward its close has been
filled with the blessings of fruitful fields and healthful
skies. To these bounties, which are so constantly en-
joyed that we are prone to forget the source from
which they come, others have°been added which are
of so extraordinary a nature that they'cannot fail to
penetrate and soften even the heart which is habitually
insensible to the ever-watchful providence of Almighty
God.

In the midst of a civil war of unequal magnitude and
severity, which has sometimes seemed to foreign states
to invite and to provoke aggression, peace has been
preserved with all nations, order has been maintained,
the laws have been respected and obeyed, and har-
mony has prevailed everywhere, except in the theater
of military conHict, while that theater has been greatly
contracted by the advancing armies and navies of the
Union.

Needful diversions of wealth and of strength from
the fields of peaceful industry to the national defense
have not arrested the plow, the shuttle, or the ship;
the ax has enlarged the borders of our settlements,
and the mines, as well of iron and coal as of the pre-
cious metals, have yielded even more abundantly than
heretofore. Population has steadily increased not-
withstanding the waste that has been made in the
camp, the siege, and the battlefield, and the country,
rejoicing in the consciousness of augmented strength
and vigor, is permitted to expect continuance of years
with large increase of freedom.

No human counsel hath devised nor hath any mortal
hand worked out these great things. They are the
gracious gifts of the Most High God, who, while deal-
ing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless
remembered mercy.

It has seemed to me fit and prOper that they should
be solemnly, reverently, and gratefully acknowledged,
as with one heart and one voice, by the whole Ameri-
can people. I do therefore invite my fellow-citizens in
every part of the United States, and also those who

369

are at sea and those who are sojourning in foreign
lands, to set apart and observe the last Thursday of
November next as a day of thanksgiving and praise
to our beneficent Father who dwelleth in the heavens.
And I recommend to them that while offering up the
ascriptions justly due to Him for such singular deliver-
ances and blessings they do also, with humble peni-
tence for our national perverseness and disobedience,
commend to His tender care all those who have be-
come widows, orphans, mourners, or sufferers in the
lamentable civil strife in which we are unavoidably
engaged, and fervently implore the interposition of the
Almighty hand to heal the wounds of the nation and
to restore it, as soon as may be consistent with the
divine purposes, to the full enjoyment of peace, har-
mony, tranquility, and union.

Thanksgiving, as we know it, stood on this date
through the years until, in 1939, President Frank—
lin D. Roosevelt stirred the feelings of the nation
by moving the holiday to the third Thursday in
November, in order to cooperate with American
businessmen in lengthening the Christmas shopping
season. Actually this was not such drastic action
as it seemed, considering that the date previously
had been changed so many times. The move stim-
ulated great consternation, however, and many
states refused to observe the new date. Conse-
quently, in 1942, and at the request of the presi-
dent, Congress, for the first time in history, passed

,

a joint resolution officially legislating that Thanks-
giving, hereafter, shall fall on the fourth Thursday
of each November.

Thanksgiving day, in 1949, is—as its predeces-
sors have been—a day for courageously facing the
problems of the present and the future; for recog-
nizing the sore spots which still confront us; for
resolving to make our democracy a living reality.
In this Thanksgiving season we must revive the
motto of the Pilgrim Fathers: “Share the work.”
Unless we Americans share the work of active
citizenship, our advantages will not endure. Our
fitness to survive as a nation depends upon our
willingness to work at being responsible American
citizens.

Though we are genuinely grateful for our great
American heritage, we should not be content to
rest on our oars. It is up to us to go forward by
our own efforts. \Ve must not only preserve the
freedoms handed down to us, we must expand and
improve them. We must not flaunt the achieve-
ments of our forefathers as our own, but should
solemnly pledge to match the achievements of the
past by our own accomplishments in the present
and future. For liberty, in the words of Jefferson,
cannot be completely inherited but “must be won
anew for every issue in every generation.”

 

An Appeal for Understanding

N APPEAL T0 use the American theatre for a
series of dramatic performances dedicated to
world peace, human rights and international un-
derstanding has been issued to more than 2,000 pro—
fessional, school and community groups through-
out the country. The appeal was made by the
U. S. National Commission for UNESCO through
Miss Rosamond Gilder, chairman of its panel on
dramatic arts and representative of the American
National Theatre and Academy. \Vhile urging
constant attention to themes contributing to better
understanding among the peoples of the world, it
was suggested that, the month of March, 1950, be
selected for the presentation of such plays on a
nation—wide basis.
In urging groups to participate in “this nation-

370

wide expression of the UNESCO idea,” Miss
Gilder pointed out that there are many channels
through which international understanding can be
increased—including the borrowing of plays from
other countries. “Choose your own play with an
appropriate theme,” she suggests, “or plan to pro-
duce a play which reflects the life and customs of
another nation. Encourage the writing of scripts
on this subject, or plan a festival of music and
dance dedicated to the arts of other countries.”

Miss Gilder offered the assistance of ANTA
but added that “the whole point and emphasis of
the March, 1950, week of international theatre
should be toward expressing the basic UNESCO
idea in terms of the locality in which the perform-
ance takes place.”

RECREATION

WHAT IS YOUR THANKSGIVING I  ?

A Thanksgiving Quiz for Teen-agers and Adults

Prepared by the American Heritage Foundation

Which of the following choices is correct?

I. Thanksgiving is celebrated as a legal holiday:

a. In the New England States only

b‘. In every state of the union, in all territories and
the District of Columbia

c. In all states excepting Louisiana and Florida

(1. In most of the states, but not in all of them

2. The custom of having Thanksgiving celebrated
on the same day throughout the country as a na-
tional festival dates from:

a. The time of the Revolutionary War

b. The time of the Civil War

c. The Mayaower Compact
(1. World War II

3. The person most responsible for bringing about
the celebration of Thanksgiving Day as a national
festival for expressing gratitude was:

a. George Washington

b. Abraham Lincoln

c. Mrs. Sarah J. Hale
d. Horace Greeley

4. Which of the following is one of the blessings
for which Americans should be thankful:

a.- The standard of living

b. The national crime rate

c. Condition of our mental hospitals

(1. Percentage of eligible voters who vote in na-
tional elections

5.'The right to worship God in our own way is
guaranteed by:
a. The Mayflower Compact

b. The Declaration of Independence

c. The original Constitution
(1. The Bill of Rights

6. The Mayfiower Compact is important because
it provided for:

a. Religious liberty
b. Equality for all

c. A Bill of Rights
d. A system of self-government

NOVEMBER 1949

7. The first Thanksgiving proclaimed in the New
World was issued by:

a. George Washington

b. Thomas Jefferson

c. Abraham Lincoln

(1. Governor Bradford and the Plymouth Colony

8. INhich is the most practical way for Americans

to express their gratitude for the American way
of life:

a. By feasting on Thanksgiving Day

b. By observing that the American system of gov-
ernment grants many individual freedoms

c. By comparing our achievements with those of
our forefathers

d. By the “Nine Promises of a Good Citizen”

True or False?

9. The original Constitution permitted human
slavery. True E] False |:|

IO. One of the reasons why we Americans are
thankful on Thanksgiving Day is that we have the

right to freedom from compulsory labor. True I]
False I] '

II. The postwar improvement in citizenship in
the United States is reflected in the fall in the
crime rate since the end of World War II.
True [I False I]

12. If our American heritage is to be preserved
and handed down to future generations, each citi-
zen 'must feel morally responsible for contributing

to the betterment of his community, state and na-
tion. True I] False I]

I 3. The right. to vote secretly for anyone I wish
is guaranteed by the United States Constitution.
True I] False I]

I4. Landing at Plymouth Rock, the Pilgrims es-
tablished a day of Thanksgiving because they found
the country a land of great abundance. True [:1

False [:I .

371.

15. The separation of church and state is a fea-
ture of English-spealdng countries. True I]
False E]

16. Each of the state constitutions contains a Bill
of Rights similar to the Bill of Rights in the United

States Constitution giving the individual added

protection against operation by state or local offi-
cials. True [:1 False I]

I7. \Ve are grateful to the Pilgrims because they
introduced religious’freedom to the New World.
True [I False I]

(For answers, see page 407)

 

Announcing Two Important Publications

Personnel Standards in Recreation Leader-
ship, A Committee Report—This newly revised
publication, just published by the National Recrea-
tion Association, formed the principal part of a
stimulating discussion of personnel standards at
the National Recreation Congress in New Or-
leans. (See Congress Proceedings.) Stephen H.
Mahoney, who chaired the meeting, was also chair-
man of the committee which had worked on this
revision. Many other members of the committee
were present. Everyone was concerned about ways
of getting these important standards into the hands
of all recreation workers as quickly as possible.

The report has been eagerly awaited. Previous
to publication typewritten copies already had been
put to use in several areas—as, for instance, when
the Civil Service Commission of New Jersey re-
quested help from professional recreation leaders
in reclassifying recreation positions. In Philadel—
phia the standards had been used by a local group
in preparing recommendations which were adopted
by the civil service authorities.

Every recreation worker should have a copy;
and the standards should be in the hands of our
boards, city governments, members of allied pro-
fessions, and ourselves! Available from the Na-
tional Recreation Association at fifty cents.

Community Sports and Athletics—This book
of five hundred pages was designed to meet a
long felt need. Edited by George Butler of the
staff of the National Recreation Association, it is
based upon long experience on the part of recrea—
tion authorities in the organization and conduct
of community sports and athletics. Valuable as-

372

sistance and advice were received from members
of an advisory committee who read the manuscript
in whole or in part and offered helpful suggestions.
Members of the committee were: L. B. Holloway,
Ann Arbor, Michigan; Howard Jeffrey, Brattle-
boro, Vermont; 0. D. Johnson, Lake Charles,
Louisiana; William A. Moore, Louisville, Ken—
tucky; Harold S. Morgan, Milwaukee, Wisconsin;
Miss Josephine Randall, San Francisco, Califor—
nia; Karl B. Raymond, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Howard Jeffrey, superintendent of recreation in
Brattleboro, Vermont, writes of it: “Your book on
community sports is really excellent. Both stu-
dents and workers in the field should find it very
useful.” A director of municipal sports, Harold
S. Morgan of Milwaukee, says: “It should be a
book that every recreation director and athletic
director will want as a reference book.” Order
from A. S. Barnes and Company, 101 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York City. Price four dollars.

 

Buy Christmas Seals

Just like decorating the tree, Christmas Seals
have become part of the Yuletide ritual in millions
of American homes. They’re Santa’s biggest bar-
gain—giving added protection against tuberculosis.
Support this once—a-year appeal for the year-round
program of prevention and control carried on by
the National Tuberculosis Association and aimi-
ates! Send in your contribution today.

RECREATION

Work That is Deeply Satisfying

 

deLesseps S. Morrison

Address given at 31st Recreation Congress by
deLesseps Story Morrison, Mayor of New Orleans

SOME MONTHS AGO, one of our local sports pages

carried a picture of a little boy in a baseball suit
swinging a bat. It was not an unusual scene. This
summer, it could have been repeated with more
than three thousand boys. But this picture jolted
a particular man and woman. They were the little
boy’s parents, who had quarreled bitterly and were
about to be divorced. a

The picture brought them to their senses. They
saw it and realized that they were both deeply
proud of their son. They didn’t want to hurt him.
The upshot of it was that they patched things up.
The Boy’s home was saved. And the New Orleans
Recreation Department can tell you that those two
parents are the strongest rooters in our kid base—
ball program.

Incidents like this are not typical, of course, but
there are so many human stories in NORD that
the work is deeply satisfying. Here on one play-
ground we have a boy two months out of reform
school building a new life around his skill at high
jumping. On the other side of town there’s a for-

"Chep” Morriron ha: not only found time to be
mayor of a great city hut, a: prerident of the Ameri-
can Municipal Aucciation, ha: made a real contribu-
tion to the development of municipal government in
America. He but recently returned from Europe,
where he .rtuclied .rocial and governmental problemr.

NOVEMBER 1949

mer bad boy, now tame and docile, taking parts in
plays and making leather wallets. Here’s a little
girl so afraid of water she trembles and cries if any
is splashed in her face. A few weeks later, thanks
to an understanding instructor, she is paddling like
mad across the shallow end of a pool and having
a wonderful time.

The racket you hear at one NORD facility is
made by fifty kids hammering trays out of alu-
minum. The music at another place marks time for
teen-agers square dancing in a converted jail. On
a floodlighted field at night you can see workers
from the slums forgetting themselves for an hour
watching a ball game. Visit another NORD cen-
ter and you see 300 old folks doing the cakewalk
and singing “Sweet Peggy O’Neill.”

And so it goes. On formerly empty lots, at an
old army hospital, in jails, firehouses—wherever
a facility can be begged, borrowed, and I guess
stolen—NORD is doing this human job and doing
it well.

I say this to you not in a spirit of boastfulness,
but as a simple matter of fact. If this tremendous
program were my property, I would hesitate to
speak of it in such glowing terms. The plain fact
is that hundreds of people have played a major
part in it. It is one of the best examples I know
of citizen participation in government, coupled with
the professional skill of public employees. But
New Orleans. has no monopoly on this winning

373

combination. What has hapened here can happen
in any city, provided the citizens want it to.

This city was founded 231 years ago. Yet the
first public playground for children was built only
forty-one years ago. Despite the heroic efforts of
a few people, we managed to accumulate only
thirty-five play facilities between 1908 and I946,
in a city that had grown to some 600,000 persons.

Many of our youngsters literally grew up in the
streets. They swam in the Mississippi River, in
drainage canals and the like. They played in rub-
bish-filled lots, in railroad yards, and hung around
street corners. It is a sad fact that some of the
playgrounds themselves were pretty tough places.

Many parents forbade their children to go near
them.

Then, during the war, physical fitness became a
popular goal. This, plus the accumulated needs of
two centuries, led to the formation of a citizens
volunteer group called the Junior Sports Associ-

ation. Its athletic program was the forerunner
of NORD.

Finally, when we took ofhce in I946, we had be-
fore us a strong recommendation from the citizens
committee on parks and playgrounds, the Bureau
of Governmental Research, and the Council of So—
cial Agencies that recreation should be brought
into its own in New Orleans. We made it a full—
fledged department, on equal footing with fire, po—
lice, sanitation, and so on. \V e consolidated over-
lapping and duplicating functions. As a lucky
break, we were able to get two top men from the
old Junior Sports group.

Lester Lautenschlaeger, a successful attorney,
former Tulane football star and civic leader, be-
came our director at $1 per year. Johnny Brechtel,
one of the best high school coaches in the South,
became his top assistant and full-time executive
director. Together, they recruited a t0p flight staff
through civil service and, with the help of a citi-
zens advisory commission, set out to give New
Orleans what it had needed for so long.

At first, they had to do a lot with a little. One
of the first things was to arrange to have thirty—
five school playgrounds supervised full time during
the summer and after school hours the rest of the
year. Formerly, these grounds had simply been
locked up. Next, they set about converting aban—
doned public buildings and unused public land. . .
(See August, 1949 RECREATION—Ed.)

NORD then put to use a legacy of some $360,—
000. It was used to re-equip all playgrounds with
modern steel paraphernalia. Eighteen playgrounds
were fenced and provided with bleachers. Shelter
houses were built, together with seven swimming

37+

pools, two football stadiums, and a floodlighted
baseball field.

But perhaps the major achievement of the Stall-
ings Fund was its assistance in the financing of
three big gymnasium-youth centers. The first of
these has been completed. It is a $300,000 project
in a riverfront section of New Orleans, constructed
mainly of war surplus materials and secondhand
bricks taken from demolished public buildings. Its
arena,seats 5,800 persons. There is a small audi-
torium for plays and free movies. There are also
arts and crafts rooms and a small library. Outside
there is a floodlighted playground and a I 50-foot
swimming pool.

The second center is nearing completion. For-
merly it was a car barn that had been abandoned.
\Ve used the steel framework and more second-
hand bricks from old public buildings to make a
gym of it. The third center is one for Negroes,
similarly being constructed from war surplus and
secondhand, city-owned materials.

At the same time, thirty—three playgrounds
have been floodlighted and a number of completely
new ones built. From thirty-five we have gone up
to ninety-four recreation facilities in about three
years. .

But, while these physical additions to NORD
are important, I believe they rank second to the
value of trained and interested recreation super-
visors. Our supervisors have built a well-rounded
program, something to appeal to every child. In
athletics he has a range of choice from the major
sports to potato racing. In music he can hear a
free symphony or play in a jazz band. In arts and
crafts he can make a monkey on a stick or paint
a portrait. In dramatics he can do everything from
a juggling act to a heart-rending oration. And, of
course, the girls’ program is as large, if not larger,
than that for the boys.

Teen-agers have their special activities, like
dances and truck rides. Adults can play ball, swim,
square dance, act or take off excess poundage in
a weight-reducing class. And . . . the old folks
have their Golden Age Club, run by the American
Women’s Voluntary Services at NORD centers,
where they can meet people of their own age, for-
get their elderly dignity, and just have a good time.
At first I thought that chatting might be their most
strenuous recreation—that is, until I danced with
a few of those ladies.

I hardly need tell you that running the program
requires special skill and. special training. Play-
ground supervision is far removed today from the
early practice that called for ~little more. than a
“sitter.” You’ve got to do more than maintain

 RECREATION

order, take attendance, and keep an eye on the bats
and balls. An unsupervised playground, or a badly
supervised one, can become an incentive—not a
deterrent—to juvenile delinquency.

A recreation program is accomplished not in
City Hall or in committee or any place else except
at the meeting place between supervisor and child.
And it is up to you and to us to see to it that the
professional standards of such supervision are
maintained and improved with every passing year.

However, let me say this. It is not enough for
you to do a good job. This work, which is so de-
pendent on financing, on proper personnel, on free-
dom of administration, needs continuing public
assistance and support. Therefore, you must have
special parents groups backing each playground.
You must enlist the services of the most prominent
and respected people in town. Your program must
be the business of every citizen. For, having been
part of it, he will rise to the defense when the oc-
casion demands. And I daresay each of you has
found that “occasion demands” pretty often.

Further, in encouraging volunteer assistance,
you will find some of the hardest and best workers
you ever saw. We have people who work harder
for us for nothing than they do elsewhere to make
money for themselves.

If the implications of NORD were only local, I
would hardly believe them worth your while. But
it should be plain that every city has the raw ma-
terial for a recreation program that runs the gamut
from swings for babies to dances for old folks.
Every city has a core of conscientious, public-spir-
ited and energetic citizens who have the drive to
put over a NORD type program.

And, in that connection, may I take this oppor-
, tunity to note that city ofncials over the nation are
indebted to the National Recreation Association
for leadership, information and inspiration in plan-
ning and carrying out the high standards which are
essential for a sound recreation program.

The demand for better recreation facilities for
young and old is not a war-born fancy or a tem-
porary whim. It is part of that larger movement
by which the average man is demanding a fuller
share of the good things in life, once enjoyed only
by the rich.

In meeting this overwhelming demand for a bet-
ter life, cities are rather limited in what they can
do. They don’t have the economic strength to roll
back a' depression or put a pay check in every
pocket. Even with government aid, they .can only
make a start toward decent housing. They cer-
tainly are not equipped to wipe out most of the
things that cause. unhappiness and discontent in

NOVEMBER Fl 949

 

A recreation program is not set up in city hall or
in committee, but face to face with those to be served.

the homes of the people. However, this does not
mean that they are powerless—wthat city govern-
ment today must be precisely what it was in our
grandfathers’ time and, nothing more.

A place to play, a chance to laugh and swim or
simply sit under a tree and breathe fresh air—
these are attainable goals for every citizen if pub-
lic officials will but recognize their need. For I
know of no public works investment that pays
greater dividend per dollar than the recreation
facility.

The twelve hour day is behind us. Gone are the
sweatshops, the child labor, the unrelieved house-
hold drudgery that in former years made people
old before their time. Gone are the days when
pleasure was the sole property of the wealthy. The
task now is not simply to build big cities, but liv-
able ones in which men, women and children—-
whose every hour is ‘no longer occupied in earning
bread—can use their new found leisure time to
best advantage.

This, then, is a challenge to you. For you rep-
resent the recreation leadership of this nation. Fun
is serious business when it can reduce juvenile
delinquency by “twenty-four percent in a single
year, as it has done in New Orleans. Fun is seri-
ous business when it can alleviate some of the bit-
ter tensions of our time and bring a moment of
happiness and independence to the aged.

Organized, supervised, well-thought-out recrea-
tion is a permanent function of local government.
It must not be made to stand at the end of the line
begging for a handout. It must not be a catch-all
for people unable to handle other city jobs. It
must not be forgotten and abused. Rather, it must
achieve new dignity'and stature and be recognized
as a necessity of modern living. Whether or not
it achieves such stature depends on you, for in the
public mind there is'no doubt that you and your
associations m recreation.

325.,

By Tony Patch, Supervisor of Recreation in Housing Developments, San Francisco

 

Thore who read the account of recreation in San
Francirco’: homing project: in the March, 1946 irrae
of RECREATION will be particularly interacted in thi:
report of progres: made during 1947-48. A growing
number of commanitie: with homing development:
are confronted with many of there prohlemr.

'1‘ THE CLOSE of 1947, three and one half years
A following the San Francisco Recreation De-
partment’s agreement to assume the responsibilities
of administering the recreation program in San
Francisco public housing developments, a report,
“There Are No Strangers Here——Recreation and
Housing Join Hands,” was compiled and submit-
ted to Miss Josephine D. Randall, superintendent
of recreation in San Francisco, to point out prog—
ress made during that period.

Although the general total population in public
housing developments remained approximately the
same, we, in recreation, were confronted with the
task of redeveloping and reorganizing our leisure-
time activities program to meet changing customs
and attitudes. Customs changed from former pat-
terns of rural background to those of an urban na-
ture. Attitudes changed when the people felt them—
selves to be a part of the community rather than
strangers. The accepted policy, that recreation
centers located in housing developments should
serve the entire neighborhood as well as housing
residents, remained about the same.

Currently, the population in housing develop-
ments is considered permanent. This is acknowl—
edged for two reasons: first, the immigrant tenants
who moved to San Francisco because of war indus—_
try and who did not have any intention of remain-

376

ing here after the war, have returned to their for—
mer homes; second, veterans who were either na-
tives or who liked San Francisco so well that they
decided to make it their permanent home, occu-
pied the vacated dwellings. We also found that a
percentage of the immigrants liked San Francisco
so well that they decided to remain. One reason
for the present stability of tenants is that a com—
paratively large number are biding their time in
the low rental units in order to save until they have

- an opportunity to purchase new homes.

Shortly following the inception of housing de—
velopments in San Francisco, a large number of
dormitories was constructed adjacent to the large
San Francisco Naval Repair Yard, in order to
house men and women who were brought into the
city from all sections of the country to work in the
Navy Yard and other war industry. Postwar plan-
ning eliminates these dormitories in order to re—
develop them into family units. Because of this
reconversion, it was necessary for us to redevelop
and reorganize our entire recreation activities pro-
gram in this area, to meet the needs of small chil-
dren and entire families.

During these changes, the interracial situation
remained approximately the same. No serious
problems were confronted because, as soon as the
various groups were oriented, they were immedi—
ately integrated into the program. Our directors
were extremely understanding and always on the
alert to maintain an active interest in the current
program. As soon as lack of interest was detected,
activities were changed.

Postwar conditions also eliminated the need for
around-the-clock working shifts at the Navy Yard.

RECREATION

As a result, the time needed to service the leisure-
time interests of our people shortened. However,
our recreation units still remain open twelve hours
a day, six days a week, and, in some instances,
seven days.

What appeared from 1942-45 to be a temporary
situation in public housing, later developed to be
a semi-permanent one. The Public Housing Au—
thority had constructed temporary units by the
thousands, but postwar planning included the tear-
ing down of these buildings. However, because
veterans and others desired to make San Francisco
their permanent home, the housing shortage re-
mained critical. Therefore, the temporary units
were made to do double duty, and plans for the
construction of permanent units were delayed. In
order to ease the situation after original eligibles
vacated, only veterans were eligible for temporary
housing, and low income families were admitted
to permanent dwellings.

The sudden change and the redeveloped pro—
. gram placed a stress upon the recreation depart-
ment for better qualified and trained personnel.
Original postwar personnel requirements were quite
rigid and eliminated all prospects except those who
possessed a college degree with a major in one of
four fields: social service, child psychology, phys-
ical education, or recreation. These standards pre-
sented numerous difficulties becauSe people who
had the required qualifications could obtain posi-
tions in other fields at higher salaries. As a result,
further examinations were held with less rigid re-
quirements until finally we were able to obtain a
sufficient number of qualified leaders.

Many of our directors assigned to housing on
a temporary basis were able to qualify for these
examinations. As a result of their education and
experience in the field, they were high enough on
this list to be certified on a permanent basis. This
eased our position greatly as these workers, and
the job they had done, blended well with the new
work being undertaken with the new people. Their
experience for this new venture was invaluable.

Our in—service training pattern was enlarged to
deve10p specialists into workers capable of con-
ducting community center programs for all age
groups and to include all types of activities. Meth-
ods used were: staff conferences, individual in-
struction by supervisors, classes by qualified in—
structors. In staff conferences, specialists helped to
educate their fellow—workers in different fields of
activity for all—around ability. The special classes
included first aid, all types of athletics, small chil-
dren’s activities, dancing, arts and crafts, puppetry,
dramatics, and stage productions. Everything pos—

NOVEMBER 1949

sible was done to assist our personnel in expanding
their vocations and ability to perform a more thor-
ough piece of work.

With the development of the community center
idea, a need was felt for attention to individuals,
for skill in personal counselling. This need was
met in the group conferences and individual as-
sistance to the directors by the supervisors.

Several directors sought out skilled volunteers
in the various dwellings to assist them in their
program. The response and consistency of these
volunteers reached beyond expectations. In some
instances, an in-service training course has been
offered prospective volunteer leaders by our direc-
tors. Results have been extremely encouraging
and volunteer leadership has become much more
possible with a more stable population.

In order to appraise our staff, we distribute
questionnaires periodically. Personal interviews
are also conducted regularly to detect weaknesses,
and we attempt every phase of personal instruc—
tion for the betterment of everyone concerned.

Following several months of surveys, group
meetings, conferences, and staff meetings, with
adults in attendance, our directors were able to de-
velop a wide variety of activity programs which
highlighted family and adult participation. The
Adult Education Division of the Board of Educa-
tion has given us valuable assistance in adminis-
trating well—organized adult activities.

Under our sponsorship and organization, the
Adult Education Division assigns well-qualified
and experienced specialists to conduct the classes,
at times when people are able to attend. Classes
include sewing, tailoring, ceramics, painting, model
building, dollmaking, fashion shows, all kinds of
arts and crafts—including paper, fabric, wood,
leather and metal work, and other activities re—
quested by the people and attended by at least
fifteen adults.

A popular activity which brings out large num-
bers of adults is square and folk dancing. This is
so popular that our directors conduct regular. fam-
ily night sessions for entire family groups.

One of the most outstanding contributions to all-
around participation by the youth in housing de-
velopments was the organization of the Athletic
Committee, whose responsibility it is to organize
a year-round, inter-center sports and activities
calendar in which all units participate. Each activ-
ity is planned to take place immediately prior to
the city—wide sports calendar, in which all units in
San Francisco, including housing, take part.

We have discovered that when our youth com-
plete their housing tournament which is, in itself,

377

an in-service training program, they are much
more qualified and possess a great deal more con-
fidence to compete against others who have had
years more practical experience in the field. It is
an accepted fact that youth in housing, because of
their previous inexperience and cultural back-
ground, have not had the opportunity to enjoy
participation in these activities. As a result, they
do not have the knowledge or confidence necessary,
and they become quickly discouraged in actual
competition. However, thanks to these housing
tournaments, the number of final individual and
group city champions has established an envious
record for the housing units.

Another outstanding program feature is our
summer vacation set-up, with directors participat-
ing in the planning and organization. The purpose
of this program is to conduct activity away from
the regular routine center activity, on a specified
day of the week. All children who wish to partici-
pate meet at their centers at a designated time
with proper accessories, including carfare, lunches
and spending money. Special chartered motor
buses—municipally owned and operated—pick up

the children, transport them to the place of inter- '

center activity, and return them to their individual
units at the end of the day. A great many of them
have seldom had opportunities to see much of San
Francisco, so excursions are planned to enable
them to visit various places of interest.

Directors are appointed as chairmen and com-
mittee members and a different group works on
each of the ten weekly excursions. The program
develops a keen competitive spirit as each com-
mittee group attempts to outdo the others. As a
result, the children reap the benefits and their re-
actions indicate that they appreciate the untiring
efforts of their leaders.

In addition, many other outstanding activities
and events are held regularly for children and
adults. For example, the following presents the
normal activities program conducted in each hous-
ing recreation unit:

Athletics—Low organization games for boys
and girls, with special emphasis on activities for
children from six to twelve years of age; lead—up
games which afford preliminary training in all
major Sports; boys’ and girls’ athletic clubs ; boys’
and girls’ athletic teams in all sports; boys’ and
girls’ gymnasium activities; co—recreational athletic
activities; intra-playground and inter-playground
competitive activities and play days.

Dramatics—Storytelling; drama groups; pup-
pet groups—construction and presentation of pup—
pet plays.

378

M mic—Group singing; toy symphony.

Dancing—Singing games; co-recreational folk
dancing; little folks’ rhythmics.

Handcrajts—Numerous phases of handcrafts.

Swimming—Arranged as special activity trips
to Crystal Plunge or Mission Pool.

Special Activities—— Hikes or away—from-the—
playground trips or picnics; quarterly boxing tour—
naments ; semi-monthly invitation tournaments
which include housing champions competing
against boys’ clubs and other agency champions;
motion picture shows regularly scheduled; social
activities such as teen—age dances, adult dances,
card parties, community singing; club dinners and
luncheons, weddings, showers, birthday parties,
mothers’ teas and the like.

Our activities’ guide is very much in use. Many
new items have been included and are proving in—
valuable to our staff. There were some weaknesses
at first, but after numerous meetings these were
corrected. At present the guide is used almost
daily.

Directors are offered every possible assistance
so that they may do a better job wherever required
to meet changing conditions and situations. Each
director has many objectives. The three most im—
portant, as discovered from experience, are: to
break down community barriers which tend to rise
between public housing individuals and private
home owners; to develop interesting activity pro—
grams for regular family participation; to_ develop
a more personal approach to accomplish the task
of integrating all peoples of the project and sur-
rounding community into the center’s program.

With a mutual purpose in mind to prepare our—
selves to do a better job, and with the knowledge
that we can all benefit in one way or another by
experience, each director is requested to send in
regular reports, evaluating . program, experience
and contacts. This procedure has proved ex-
tremely beneficial.

A harmonious working relationship between the
housing and recreation groups-has resulted from
frequent conferences and meetings. The recrea—
tion agency has been consulted and invited to par—
ticipate in most meetings during which recreation
policies have been involved and we have also in-
vited housing groups to participate whenever their
problems are discussed. Few hard and fast rules
have been applied by either agency. W henever it
is necessary to invoke rules, regulations, policies
or procedures, directives are sent out and neces-
sary changes result in mutual understanding.

\Vhen the housing authority first requested the
recreation department to assume the responsibil-

RECREATION

ities of administering the recreation program in
housing developments, there were no written
agreements. It was merely a general agreement,
with the housing agency furnishing the physical
facilities, maintenance and upkeep. During the
war, the Federal Government furnished recreation
materials and supplies for temporary units, but the
recreation department has always furnished recre—
ation materials and supplies for the permanent
projects.

After the war, the Federal Government no
longer allocated money for the purchase of recrea-
tion supplies and, as a result, the recreation de-
partment was forced to assume this responsibility,
too, in order to continue the activities program in
all housing units. Because of the terrific wear and
tear given our units, many repairs had to be made
to the hurriedly constructed buildings. They were
made as quickly as possible but, in some cases, we
were forced to wait some time before vital mate-
rials could be obtained.

During the postwar transition period, many
changes occurred in the Public Housing Adminis—
tration, and the difficulties in having two agencies
combined in one operation became more acute.
One point upon which agreement was difficult was
the necessary amount of janitorial services re-
quired by our department to carry on a healthful
recreation program. The service that was being
rendered by the housing authority was not suffi—
cient to meet our needs. Therefore, it was mu-
tually agreed that the recreation department should
have full control of, and responsibility for, the
janitorial services. We have requested the new
janitorial positions in our 1949—50 budget, and
await the approval of proper authorities.

Possibly among the most outstanding achieve-
ments of the housing authority, relative to the ad-
ministration work, are the regular monthly mana-
ger-director meetings attended by the manager,
director, supervisor of community services for
housing, and the supervisor of recreation. When
these meetings were first held, they resembled
“gripe sessions.” Directors complained about
maintenance and janitorial services, while mana—

gers complained about physical damage, vandalism
and inadequate supervision.

As a result of regular meetings, however, and
the definite knowledge that recreation and housing
need each other to satisfy the needs of the people,
a closer, more harmonious atmosphere has re-
placed the original sessions. Meetings are now
conducted informally and few, if any, derogatory
issues or requests are encountered. Criticism is
expressed in a constructive manner and is accepted

NOVEMBER 1949

 

Drama is a popular recreation activity in San Fran-
cisco. Above, children delight in Christmas pageant.

in the same light. Directors and managers alike
inform each other of any and all changes that may
affect the program in any manner.

During the past two years, the San Francisco
Recreation Department and the Public Housing
Authority have taken long strides in the integra-
tion of tenant activities conducted in housing de—
velopments with those conducted in the adjoining
neighborhood and the community. Opportunities
for tenants to participate in, and benefit from, the
recreation services provided in the immediate lo—
cality have been secured.

During 1947 and 1948 we have administered
leisure-time activities to over one million people of
all age groups. In the immediate future, a pro—
gram for the gradual elimination of temporary
dwellings and an increase of permanent dwellings
is planned by the housing authority. One feature
of the permanent buildings will, no doubt, be the
tearing down and rebuilding of slum areas.

A highly desirable aim of the San Francisco
Recreation Department and the Board of Educa-
tion is to build schools and community centers
where the entire community, including residents of
public housing, can take part and be integrated
into a sole project of education and leisure-time
participation. This plan would have a tremendous
effect on a closer relationship between people in
the housing developments and the community.
Any and all future planning by public agencies
should include entire community participation, re—
gardless of physical make—up.

379

    

I
‘\ J E41?" n
n—f—i

THE [MILE 0F THE FEDERAL Gill’ERNMEN’I‘
IN PUBLIC HECBEATIHN

A DETAILED REPORT has been drawn up by the
Federal Inter—Agency Committee on Recrea-
tion for the purpose of presenting a summary of
the historical development of the recreation serv—
ices and facilities of the Federal Government and
to'describe the present public recreation programs
of the Federal Government, by agencies, including
legal authorizations, nature and sc0pe of present
activities, and federal—state relationships.
Unfortunately, there are many among us who
still do not realize that, through federal agencies
long established, our government has been doing
much for recreation in this country through the
years. An over—all picture of the extent of these
services seldom has been presented to our citizens,
with the result that Joe Doaks, the average lay—
man, has but a fragmentary concept of the work
being carried on under federal auSpices. Nor does
he realize that these agencies—Department of the
Army, Corps of Engineers; Department of the In—
terior, National Park Service and Fish and \Vild-
life Service; Department of Agriculture, Exten-
sion Service and Forest Service; Federal Security
Agency, Office of Education and Children’s Bu-
reau; Housing and Home Finance Agency, Public
Housing Administration—c00perate through the
Federal Inter—Agency Committee on Recreation.
This committee, under the sponsorship of the
Honorable J. A. Krug, Secretary of the Interior,
was organized in 1946 in order to put a united

380

effort behind the recreation program of the Fed-
eral Government and, at the same time, to con-
serve the best of what has been built up and estab—
lished by each agency over a long period of years.
This coordination of experience and effort has
augered well for recreation in the nation, and has
made possible greater services in this field.

Believing that recreation is a basic human need
in modern life, along with health and education,
that it is important to the physical and mental
health of the individual and, therefore, a social and
civic necessity, the committee sees federal recrea—
tion functions as dividing themselves into two dif-
ferent types of activities: 1) those related to the
operation of federally—owned pr0perties, such as
parks, forests, wildlife preserves, hospitals, mili-
tary establishments, reservoir areas, housing proj-
ects, and the like; and 2) those with advisory serv-
ices in connection with the promotion, planning
and operation of state and local community park
and recreation programs.

In the June, 1949, report the committee states:
“A study of the current operations of the federal
agencies in connection with type two (above)
shows that the functions cover——

“A. Planning for recreation in cooperation with
other Federal Government and quasi-gov—
ernmental agencies and with national or-
ganizations.

“B. Consultative services to the states, and

I

RECREATION

their subdivisions through the states, on-

the problems of planning, development, and
operation of park and recreation programs
and services.

“C. The collection and dissemination of data
and information necessary for carrying out
the above functions.

“It is apparent that these functions denote a
respect for the authority and prerogatives of the
states. The methods used in performing these
functions reflect a constant effort to stimulate full
application of the resources of the state govern-
ments and to strengthen the services of the state
agencies in relation to park and recreation devel-
opment.”

Recreation is one of the fundamental individual
and community needs of our people, and govern-
ment at all levels is providing facilities and serv—
ices at a rapidly increasing rate. The Congress of
the United States has supported the recreation ac—
tivities of federal agencies through enabling legis-
lation and appropriations. Public opinion not only
supports existing federal activities in the recreation
field, but is urging even greater service.

In addition to the recreation activities of the
Corps of Engineers, National Park Service, Fish
and Wildlife Service, Forest Service, Extension
Service, Ofnce of Education, Children’s Bureau,
and Public Housing Administration, the programs
of a number of other agencies contribute to the
recreation resources of the country. Among them
are the following:

Department of the Interior—The Bureau of
Reclamation, through the National Park Service
acting as its agent, plans for the protection and
utilization of the recreation resources of reclama-
tion projects, and proposes to develop appropriate
recreation facilities.

The Bureau of Indian Affairs provides limited
recreation opportunities for the public on Indian
lands, as well as facilities and programs for the
Indians themselves. The Bureau of Land Manage-
ment makes available the use of the public lands
for essentially all forms of recreation. The Bureau
also has authority to sell, lease or exchange to
the states and their political subdivisions unre-
served non-mineral lands which have been classi-
fied as chiefly valuable for recreation purposes.

The National Capital Park and Planning
Commission was created to plan and acquire an
adequate system of parks, parkways and play-
grounds, to preserve the forest and natural scen-
ery in and about the National Capital, and to pre—
pare a coordinated city and regional plan for the
District of Columbia and environs.

NOVEMBER 1949

Federal Security Agency——The Public Health
Service furnishes information on sanitary prob—
lems relating to construction and operation of park
recreation developments, such as swimming pools,
camps and beaches.

Federal Works Agency—The Public Roads
Administration cooperates with the National Park
Service and the Forest Service in constructing
roads in areas under the jurisdiction of these serv-
ices. As a considerable part of the national use of
all public roads is estimated to be for recreation
purposes; the total program of this agency has an
important bearing on the recreation of the people.

The Bureau of Community Facilities adminis-
ters federal grants and aids made in connection
with the defense and war program for recreation
facilities and services to local communities. It also .
disposes of recreation properties to local and Fed-
eral Governmental Agencies.

Department of Agriculture—The Soil Con-
servation Service has set aside and developed rec-
reation areas in connection with its land utilization
projects.

Tennessee Valley Authority assists state and
local governments within its area of operation to
plan and organize their recreation services. It has
also developed a number of demonstration parks,
most of which have been transferred to state or
local agencies for administration.

The report goes on to say:

“The Federal Inter—Agency Committee on Rec-
reation serves as a clearing house for the exchange
of information on policies, plans, methods, experi-
ences and procedures among the agencies; consid-
ers all current agency problems and projects pre-
sented to it and recommends basic principles which
might well be followed in these and similar proj-
ects and problems; and endeavors to facilitate the
provision of information about the recreation ac-
tivities of federal agencies. The committee seeks
to clarify the proper responsibilities of the Federal
Government in the recreation field, to discover
and, insofar as possible, to fill existing gaps in
federal recreation programs and services, with spe—
cial attention and consideration of the needs of
small communities and rural areas, minority
groups, young people, older adults, and women

and girls.

“The member agencies of the committee coop-
erate in stimulating and assisting state agencies in
the development of needed recreation facilities and
services, in accordance with cooperative plans de—
veloped by the committee, so far as resources make

this possible.”

381

THE

 

Gene Rotsch and
John C. Lilly

THE STOCKTON, California, Recreation Depart-

ment takes seriously the adage, “It’s better to
give than to receive.” Having a limited amount of
funds and a strong desire to stage a Christmas
pageant last year, it accomplished this objective
with an outlay of less than $900, thanks to splen-
did community cooperation.

The lirst step was to form a central committee
comprised of key members of several service, civic,
and fraternal organizations. This committee then
proceeded with its plans to meet with all service
clubs and explain the basic idea of the pageant;
seek sanction of the idea from the Ministerial
Association; secure services of all participants on

382

a non—profit basis, keeping the affair strictly c0-

operative; present as large a production as pos-
sible with the least expense; make the basic theme
and plans follow the Yuletide spirit of giving;
secure the backing of :local merchants from whom
materials would be purchased; broadcast as much
of the pageant as possible. Sub-committees were
then appointed to achieve these ends, leading to

. the goal of presenting a pageant to all, free of

any admission charge.

Service clubs were called upon for assistance
and the Lions Club led off with an initial donation
of $300. The Junior Chamber of Commerce fol-
lowed with $100, and so on, until approximately
$800 was subscribed.

The use of the Civic Auditorium for rehearsals
and the performance was donated by the city, as
was the use of trucks and labor for transportation
of scenery and the like; Permission to use the
Administration Building at the County Fair
Grounds to construct this scenery was granted by
the Fair Board of Directors. Sets and sketches
took form according to original plans of students
of the High School Art Club, under the temporary
supervision of a former advertising and commer-
cial artist. Their work and time were invaluable
to the success of the pageant.

The services of all workers, including the stage-
hands and professional union members of the
Stockton Community Band, were donated. Ama-
teur members of the band also played for free
and the “Troubadors,” a high school chorus, and
students of various private dancing schools ap-
peared on the program.

A finance committee was set up, with the ac-
count in the hands of the city auditor. As bills
were approved by the committee, warrants were
drawn and merchants paid by city checks. Thus,
every cent was accounted for and the total resume
of costs was later published in the local newspaper.
Local merchants also went “all out” for the proj-
ect by extending early credit to the pageant or-
ganization. In many cases, they even sold products
at wholesale prices. '

As to publicity, two local radio stations, as well
as the college FM station, carried all releases sent

Mr. Rotrcb i: metrical director and Mr. Lilly is the
superintendent of recreation in Stockton, California.

RECREATION

A Christmas pageant that was a community project

to them. Pre-event interviews of many persons
participating were aired as well as “spot” an—
nouncements and a full one-hour broadcast of the
pageant production. The Stockton Record, an eve—
ning newspaper, cooperated in printing periodic
news stories and pictures of pageant preparations.

Theaters loaned Hats and other stage settings.
Fireproofing of trees and sets was accomplished
at cost. Camp Fire Girls in uniform served as
usherettes and program distributors. The admis-
sion fee to the pageant was canned food, to be
delivered by the Junior Chamber of Commerce to
the Salvation Army and the Catholic Aid Society,
for distribution to the needy families. In all, one
hundred cases of canned food were contributed by
the enthusiastic theatre—goers.

The pageant itself was divided into four scenes,
a running dialogue or commentary being delivered
over a public address system and the radio. The
only scene that included speaking from the stage
was the Christmas Tree scene.

The following scenes were featured in the
Christmas pageant:

Scene I. “Winter Wonderland”——-—A ballet of
the great outdoors in midwinter, depicting a peas-
ant group in their preparations for Christmas. The
gathering of holly, the Yule log, children at play,
“Old Man Winter,” the Christmas worship before
an outdoor shrine, were depicted in dance.
Choreography was set to Tschaikowsky’s “Petite
Suite.” The lighting was pale cold blue to enhance
the setting of gnarled tree trunks and falling snow
nakes.

Scene 2. “The Christmas Tree”—An audience
participation scene in which Santa Claus spon—
taneously interviewed children of many races. On
stage were two huge windows, forming the back-
drop, and a twenty-foot Christmas tree. A gift
package, four feet square, was located near the
tree, out of which popped “Jack—in-the-Box” to do
a toe dance. Six children interviewed were pre—
sented with merchandise orders donated by various
merchants. The unrehearsed informality of the
scene gave it charm and added to its success.

Scene 3. “Toyland”-——A dream sequence idea
with a tiny girl being led across the stage and
tucked in for the night by her mother. From a
black house, while dream music was played, the
curtain slowly arose on the toyland set. A Santa

NOVEMBER 1949

 

Claus helper in elf’s attire was busily dusting off
eight—foot animal props and toy soldiers. The
band broke into Victor Herbert’s “March of the
Toys.” With that, the elf, who had started to wind
up the toy soldiers (recreation department ma-
jorettes), suddenly noticed the youngster still
asleep in her crib. As the toy soldiers came to
life, the elf awakened the sleeping child who
jumped from her crib, joining in a baton twirling
routine with the “soldiers. Two dances, one by a
dancing doll, and the other by an animated ball-
room dancing team representing the parents in her

'dream, were woven into the script. The scene was

unished when the child went back to sleep in her
crib and the toys returned lto their original shelves.

Appropriate background music was played by
the fifty—piece community band. The backdrop for
this part of the pageant was one of the most
difficult to construct. It was very effective, with
huge, cherry-topped ice cream mountains and a
toy train rounding one. The traditional candy
canes, building blocks and the like were also
included.

Scene 4. “The Nativity”—-——The final and serious
scene. An attempt was made to make ,this the out-
standing one because of its religious significance.
A chorus and the band were used alternately to
depict the “Christmas Story.”

The scene of the Mother Mary and Christ Child
was depicted on right stage. The chorus was
placed behind a gauze curtain on left stage repre-
senting a choir of angels. The solemn grandeur
of the scene was strengthened by an indirect light-
ing effect flooding the chorus from below as their
voices came through. The actual scenery was quite
simple and was placed before a black backdrop
with the North Star gleaming over the entire pro-
ceedings. The story of the birth of Christ was
quoted from the Bible by a hidden narrator.

At the end of the pageant, free bags of candy
were presented to all the children as they left the
auditorium. The 200 members who comprised the
cast, band, and chorus were elated to have been a
part of the presentation and were given refresh—
ments after the program was over. The 4,000
people who attended the performance left the
auditorium in a happy mood with a feeling of the
true significance of Christmas. Our pageant was
a real success!

383

Two of the elves in Santa’s workshop fascinated the
children by making toys, operating mechanical ones.

“SANTA CLAUS is coming to Torrington to spend

two weeks at the Alvord Playground, which
has been transformed into a Santa Claus Christmas
Village.”

This announcement, broadcast via Torrington,
Connecticut’s press and radio early in December,
last year, precipitated a hood of enthusiastic re-
sponse from the city’s juvenile and adult popula-
tion, and set the stage for what has been termed
the most successful community recreation project
ever conducted in this city.

People of all ages anxiously awaited St. Nick’s
arrival and, two weeks before Christmas, he landed
in a helicopter at Torrington’s largest park. Thou-
sands turned out to give him a rousing welcome,
and the mayor was on hand officially to greet Santa
and two of his toymakers, "Tippy” and “Skippy,”
who also made the trip from the North Pole to
assist him at the temporary toy shop that had
been set up in the Village.

Santa and his elves rode on a fire truck from
the park to Christmas Village, escorted by the
city’s police and fire chiefs and hundreds of hope-

384

 

ful and expectant children. They reluctantly al—
lowed him to proceed to his home in the Village,
to put his workshop in order; and no children
were permitted inside until the day after Santa’s
arrival. Recreation department employees had
done a magnificent job of transforming the rustic
shelter in a playground designed especially for sub-
teen-agers into a replica of Santa’s North Pole
abode.

St. Nick received guests while seated on an
elaborate throne, which was covered with a large
deerskin rug. The fireplace in the center of the
room was blazing at all times. A large Christmas
tree, beautifully decorated and nearly hidden by
an enormous pile of toys, stood in one corner. The
Nativity scene occupied another comer—displayed
on a low platform so that smaller children could
view it without difliculty. \Valls and ceilings were
covered with toys, stuffed animals and birds of all
kinds, also arranged so that the kiddies could see
each one; so that Santa, if a tot expressed a desire
for a certain article, could cheerfully instruct him
to “pick it off the wall.”

RECREATION

Practically all of the gifts were contributed by
Torrington people and businesses during “Toy
Shower Day,” staged the day before Santa’s ar—
rival in cooperation with the Torrington Broad-
casting Company (VVTOR) and the Torrington
Register. This gave parents and others an oppor—
tunity to help in the program, and the response
was almost unbelievable. Over 7,000 toys were
deposited at three collection depots established at
a firehouse, VVTOR, and the recreation depart-
ment's headquarters.

Scores of citizens also contributed money, with
which more toys were purchased at local stores.
Many storekeepers shipped large quantities of toys
to the Village, especially during the final days of
the program when they were clearing their store-
rooms of stock. ‘

Children were thrilled when they visited and
talked with Santa in his parlor; overjoyed when
they walked into his workshop where the elves—
dressed to fit the part—presided. It was difficult
to keep the youngsters from spending long, long
hours there. The toymakers kept them happy by
making toys of many descriptions and keeping the
electric trains, trucks and other toys in operation
at all times.

The display of toys was better than that in any
local department store, and many parents had to
make hurried trips to the shopping district after
visiting the workshop and hearing their children
plead: “Mommie, that’s the kind I want.” Many
of the toys, especially the larger ones, were loaned
to the recreation department for use at the work-
shop for the duration of the Village program by
merchants who had sold them with Christmas Eve
delivery dates.

The Village was Open each afternoon and eve-
ning for two weeks before Christmas, and long
lines of children and their parents formed there
during every open period. WTOR presented a
broadcast from the Village each afternoon, featur-
ing the reading of letters to Santa Claus. Prizes
were awarded to the writers of the best letters.
The post office department cooperated by install-
ing a special mail box at the Village, in which the
lollipop brigade could deposit their letters to Santa.

St. Nick received innumerable invitations to
various public and private Christmas parties, but
his duties at the Village forced him to decline all
outside engagements. That is, all but one. He did
pay a visit to the Torrington Hospital, where he
distributed gifts and good cheer in the children’s
ward. Also, one morning was set aside for chil—
dren who were ill at home to telephone to Santa
at the Village, exchange greetings, and leave their

NOVEMBER 1949

orders for Christmas gifts.

Practically every child in Torrington visited
Santa at Christmas Village, and scores of young-
sters from surrounding communities were among
his guests. Each received a gift, a warm hand-
clasp and a hearty greeting from him and, when
time allowed, many carried on happy conversations
while seated on his knee.

Santa left the Village the afternoon before
Christmas—again riding on a fire truck from the
Village to the park, escorted by a long parade of
youngsters. He departed for the northland in
the same helicopter that brought him to the city.
Before he left, he promised the children of Torring—
ton that he would return next year, and that his
elves would return with him.

Santa left many happy memories behind him.
His visit was pleasant for old and young alike, and
the success of the project firmly established it as
a “must” on the recreation department’s program
of Christmas events in future years.

The project was officially sponsored by the city
recreation department and WTOR, but the mush-
rooming enthusiasm turned practically every adult
of Torrington into a sponsor. They all pitched in
to do their part, and the success of their efforts
was attested by the wonderful commendations that
came from everyone who visited the Village. The
general attitude was well-expressed in the follow-
ing editorial from the Torrington Register:

“Seldom does any public project, no matter how
worthy and how desirable, succeed in meeting with
the approval of everybody. However, Torrington’s
Christmas Village seems to have been an excep-
tion to the rule. It has delighted visitors of all
ages, brought joy to the hearts of thousands of
children and intensified the Christmas spirit of
charitableness and of giving, as no other single
undertaking could have done. . . .”

 

THE 1949 CONGRESS

 

This year’s Congress message: that planned, well-directed, well-
thought-out recreation is a permanent function of local government.

EGENDARY “southern hospitality” proved to be
Lno myth this September in New Orleans and,
in reality, turned out to be as warm as the South-
ern weather which greeted delegates to the 3Ist
National Recreation Congress. Although Septem-
ber is a warm month in Louisiana, the sun came
out with unusual splendor in honor of the occasion,
causing a quick dofiing of coats and suits in favor
of the lightest possible clothing. Northern dele—
gates, unaccustomed to tropical temperatures, good
naturedly took the adjustment in their stride and
shortly had completely forgotten any discomfort
in their attention to more interesting and im-
portant matters.

As usual, opening day was a gala occasion,
resounding to the greeting of old friends, the hub-
bub of registration, location of exhibitors’ booths,
meeting rooms, consultation bureau, assembly hall.
The Congress was held in the large Municipal
Auditorium this year. Exhibitors’ attractive dis-
plays were set up immediately inside the entrance
used by all, and flanked the line of march to
meeting rooms.

At the National Recreation Association Con—
sultation Bureau, a wide selection of NRA printed
materials was displayed for the convenience of
delegates, and orders taken ; also included was a
display of recreation materials collected from com-
munities and other agencies throughout the

386

cbuntry and bound in voluminous Congress Scrap-
books. At the Bureau, appointments were made
for conferences with the various consultants on
recreation problems, orders for materials. The
Congress offices and press room were also located
in this area. '

In the evening, the front doors on the other side
were thrown wide to admit visitors directly into
the large and comfortable concert hall, where the
specially planned evening sessions were held. This
community facility is indeed worthy of note.
Planned arena style, the great hall is divided mid-
way by stage and scenery which, when the back-
drop is in place, form two auditoriums with the
stages back to back. With removable stage and
seats cleared away, the hall once again becomes an
imposing arena. The stage is adjustable, becoming
a mere platform, a stage with a sunken orchestra
pit, or a ballroom floor as occasion demands. All
three adjustments were used during the Congress,
and delegates soon learned that there was no ex-
tent to which the New Orleans Recreation De-
partment and local citizens would not go to make
the Congress as enjoyable as possible.

From the Opening session to the final resolution
of thanks, drawn up by a representative committee
of delegates and presented by Mrs. Frank Stock-
ton, secretary of the Lawrence, Kansas, Recreation

Commission, a spirit of cooperation and of hospi-

RECREATION

tality pervaded all Congress activities. The local
junior league and the A.W.V.S. enthusiastically
supported it by serving as receptionists and ushers
at general sessions.

The fine fellowship, good spirit and smooth
operation of the many-sided Congress, according
to Thomas E. Rivers, Secretary of the National
Recreation Congress Committee, was the result of
the very generous and active cooperation of the
large number of committees and volunteers who
helped in planning and carrying through the big
meeting.

From the testimony of leaders from many South—
ern communities, the indications are that the rec—
reation movement will be greatly advanced in the
South because of the New Orleans meeting.

Addresses at Evening Sessions

Several evening general sessions this year were
chaired by Otto T. Mallery, member of the Board
of Directors of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, greatly loved and recently retired president
of the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Recreation As-
sociation, and one by charming Mrs. Stuart L.
Anderson, president of the Recreation Commis-
sion, Long Beach, California. Singing was led in
lively fashion by Larry Eisenberg, recreation staff
member of the Youth Department, General Board
of Education of the Methodist Church, Nashville,
Tennessee. Music was supplied by members of the
NORD band.

Speakers at the sessions represented an inter-
esting variety of backgrounds and, therefore,
various points of view, in their thought-provoking
addresses. The first evening was highlighted by
a warm welcome and talk by the young and for-
ward-looking mayor of New Orleans—the Honor-
able deLesseps S. Morrison—on “Good Recrea-
tion as a Community Must.” He also officially
welcomed the traveling theatre of Denver, Colo-
rado, which was driven all the way from Denver
and set up on the lawn of the auditorium for the
purpose of giving performances nightly. (Amateur
performers, ranging in ages from four to eighty-
six, recently appeared on the show wagon before
an audience of 25,000 in Denver, according to Earl
Schlupp, Denver’s recreation director.) The show
wagon of Denver is similar to that used by NORD,
which also became very familiar to delegates.

Mayor Morrison, a highly decorated veteran,
learned of the many advantages of recreation dur-
ing his service in the European theatre of war,
and brought back to his community an active con-
cern for recreation which is responsible for the
present rapid advance of the constructive program
of the New Orleans Recreation Department.' He

NOVEMBER 1949

stated that the present demand for better recrea-
tion facilities for young and old is part of a larger
movement by which the average man is demanding
a fuller share of the good things in life, once en-
joyed only by the rich.

“I know of no public works investment that pays
greater dividends per dollar than the recreation
facility,” he said. (See page 373 for Mayor Mor—
rison’s complete address—Ed.)

Thomas E. Rivers told the delegates that the
South, with its “unparallelled industrial and eco-
nomic expansion,” now had a golden opportunity
to see that its cities set aside recreation space and
facilities in the early stages of their expansion.

“The time for building recreation facilities is
when the community is growing, not afterward,”
he said. “This lesson has been learned the hard,
costly way in many industrial cities in the East.
Once factories and houses have been constructed,
it is difficult and costly to obtain large land areas
for play facilities.” Failure to do these things, he
warned the South, might result in juvenile de-
linquency, worker restlessness and social tension.

Another high point of that first evening was
the never-to-be-forgotten performance of Hugh
Comer, president of the Avondale Mills of Syla-
cauga, Alabama. Avondale Mills, by the way, has
been awarded the Certificate of Merit of the Ala-
bama 'Department of Industrial Relations. Mr.
Comer interspersed his excellent address with a
surprise attack of wit and humor that sent his
appreciative audience into gales of laughter. In
covering his topic, “Recreation and Community
Development,” he stressed the fact that industries,
as well as community governments, have a definite
responsibility in helping to develop better citizens
——strong bodies and healthy minds—for the better-
ment of society.

“Recreation is an essential part of life,” he
said, “and therefore must be a matter of public
concern. Nobody is taking a greater lead in the
field than industry.” He explained the industrial
relationships of Avondale Mills which resulted in
the winning of the award. These could well be
used as a pattern by other industries the country
over.

During following general session meetings other
significant contributions included warm and de-
lightful reminiscing by Dorothy Enderis, recently
retired Director Emeritus of the Department of
Municipal Recreation and Adult Education, Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, about her years of recreation
work in Milwaukee, under the title, “Human
Problems Faced in Recreation Centers.” She
voiced a plea to light the nation’s schoolhouses

387

 
   
   

 

/

AT THE

313t NATIONAL

NEW 1

 

“Maskers dances,” part of the Mardi Gras
ball tradition, preceded general dancing.

 

Right: Scene from “Bits from Hits,” special
production staged by NORD opera group.

  

 
 

Congress guests are watching square danc-
ing after having breakfast under the oaks.

Left: A gay and amusing revue is presented
by young folks via NORD’s own show wagon.

at night and “make them full-time centers of adult
as well as children’s activity.” She pointed out
that, in Milwaukee, forty-five social centers, most
of them in school buildings, are bringing neighbors
together and keeping children off the streets. In
comparison, she quoted a 1912 local survey listing
842 pool tables in disreputable saloons and hang-
outs and showing that, on any given Saturday
night, fourteen percent of the teen-age population
was present at a shabby commercial dance hall.

“Recreation is no longer promoted on a basis
of sentiment alone,” she said. “It is a sound com-
munity investment on a par with schools, fire
protection and other standard services. We evalu-
ate recreation not simply as a deterrent of juvenile
delinquency, but as a contribution to life enrich-
ment, physical fitness and mental health.”

Dr. John D. Williams, Chancellor of the Univer—
sity of Mississippi, told delegates that because
recreation is “essentially democratic” in function
it constitutes one of the most effective means
whereby people can come to a friendly understand-
ing of each other and discover the meaning of
freedom through cooperation. His chosen topic
was “Recreation and Abundant Living.”

“Recreation fosters group loyalty and group
consciousness,” he said. “Such a force, which . . .
makes for community solidarity is greatly needed
in the world today.

“Recreation is not an escape mechanism but a
means of realizing the whole man. The use people
make of their leisure is a matter of social concern

. and will determine the character of our so-
ciety.”

Allen T. Burns, former president of the Na-
tional Conference of Social Work, former director
of the National Information Bureau and Com-
munity Chest and Councils, and an old friend of
Howard Braucher’s, presented a touching and
deeply sincere tribute to Mr. Braucher under the
title, “Howard Braucher and His Contribution to
the Enrichment of Human Life.” Otto T. Mallery
followed with appreciative recognition of Ernest
T. AttWell’s long years of outstanding service to
the recreation movement.

All in the Day’s Work

Despite the recreation attractions of the City
of New Orleans, Congress delegates had come to
' that community primarily for work, and this fact
was evident throughout the daytime discussion
panels, the business conferences with recreation

consultants and with each other, and the serious '

examination of the new equipment displayed by
commercial manufacturers and of published ma—

390

terials of the National Recreation Association and
other organizations. Local educational exhibits
were a center of interest. Every minute was made
to count and, on the last day, the consensus of
opinion was that much had been accomplished.

The series of thirty—four panel discussions
scheduled through the week covered such topics
as: How to Serve the Needs of Rural Areas and
Small Communities, College Recreation Programs,
Camping Programs in Public Recreation,The One-
Man Staff—How to be a Recreation Executive and
Everything Else, Fundamentals of Playground
Operation, What Information Do We Need—A
Round Table on Research, In-Service Training,
Community Services for the New, Young Service-
men, Church Recreation, Public Relations, Recrea-
tion Personnel Standards, Basic Principles of Park
Administration and Programming, New Trends in
Programs for Women and Girls, Pet Ideas, Bring
Your Problem to the Experts—A Problem Clinic,
and so on. (In order to be sure of obtaining a full
account of these meetings and their results, order
your Congress Proceedings now—Ed.)

A meeting on Living Begins at Sixty—Recrea-
tion Programs for Older People, includedademon-
stration by members of the Golden Age.C1ub of
New Orleans. All took part enthusiastically, as
older people usually do, and the occasion was
enjoyed hugely by all, attending. One Golden
Ager astounded all by playing expertly on his
musical instrument—a broom, of all things. Don’t
ask us how he does it!

This year, summarizers_of all meetings were
asked to hurry directly to the press room with
their reports, so that news hot-oE-the-griddle
might go out over the wires before nightfall. Na-
tional press coverage was unusually good.

Activity sessions were well-attended, and fea-
tured Arts and Crafts, Music, and Social Rec-
reation.

The special conference on Administrative Prob-
lems for Chief Executives. of Local Recreation and
Park Agencies was held for the second time this
year, and again was judged extremely helpful.
Also among the conferences for special groups was
one on Hospital Recreation; held underthe aus-
pices of the National Recreation Association and
the American Recreation Society. About one hun-
dred hospital recreation workers gave two days
to facing special problems of concern to this group.
The American Recreation Society held their an-
nual business meeting as usual (see page 409);
and the Industrial Recreation Conference meetings
were scheduled during the first two days (see
page 392).

RECREATION

Delegates at Play

An official sight-seeing tour of New Orleans, ar—
ranged for the Congress by NORD, in cooperation
with the Jean Lafitte tours, and including not
only a visit to its most interesting sections but also
to the recreation facilities of the department, took
place on Tuesday afternoon. All exhibits were
closed and no general meetings scheduled at that
time—although a few special meetings were held.
Thus the majority of delegates were free to take
advantage of this opportunity to become better ac-
quainted with this historical old city.

After the general session that evening, the new,
light opera division of the busy New Orleans Rec-
reation Department presented an especially pre-
pared production, “Bits from Hits,” for the enter-
tainment of assembled delegates. This is the first
of a series of such musical programs planned by
the division. The boys and girls hope to recruit a
chorus from interested citizens and next year pre—
sent an entire light opera season. The whole per-
formance—made up of scenes from Broadway mu-
sical favorites such as Show Boat, The Desert
Song, Porgy and Bess and Oklahoma—was beauti—
fully done and greatly enjoyed by everyone.

The next morning NORD further displayed
true Southern hospitality by playing host to the
Congress guests at a breakfast under the beau-
tiful and ancient old oaks in City Park. Busses
were lined up before the Roosevelt Hotel bright
and early—~seven am. to be exact—and imme-
diately began filling with sleepy—eyed but in-
terested Congress folk. The cavalcade started
promptly at seven-thirty, advancing through the
streets in state, preceded by an impressive motor—
cycle escort. At the park, busses disgorged the
hungry passengers on green, dew-drenched lawns
where a lavish Southern breakfast awaited them.
Square dance groups of the department, dressed

 

Listening to guide on boat ride down the Mississippi.

NOVEMBER 1949

in costume and apparently up for these many
hours, already were gaily dancing on the green,
the music echoing beneath the trees.

From the oldest and largest gnarled oak, long
white tables, set for the feast, sprayed out like the
points of a star. Everyone lined up at the serving
table where plates were piled high with delicious
veal steak a la creole, hominy grits, breakfast rolls
and plenty of butter. These were taken in charge
by attractive and gracious volunteers from the rec-
reation department who seated each guest, kept
him supplied with orange juice, coffee, rolls, butter
and generally provided excellent service. Kegs of
additional fresh orange juice and ice water were
strategically placed so that guests could help them-
selves. Pralines were passed by volunteers dressed
as the dearlyfbeloved Southern Negro Mammy.
Upon completion of breakfast, delegates were wel—
comed by the mayor and by Lester J. Lauten-
schlaeger, volunteer director of NORD, from the
stage of the department’s traveling theatre. Then
department members put on a gay and amusing
review and, after this, visitors watched the square
dancing and roamed about at will until time for
departure for the eleven o’clock meetings.

Other entertainment offered by the indefatiga-
ble recreation department included a delightful
afternoon boat ride down the Mississippi, a hay-
ride, luncheons and social parties for special groups.
As a big closing event, on the last evening, dele-
gates were treated to a masque tableau of the story
of Jean Lafitte, the buccaneer, followed by the
lavish color and pageantry of a Mardi Gras ball.
The opportunity of seeing the gracious introduc-
tory ceremony of the latter, patterned after the real
Mardi Gras balls in New Orleans and using the
same exquisite costumes,’ was a great treat for
Northern folks. When the dancing actually be—
gan, lady delegates were invited to participate in
the “maskers dances,” after which dancing was en—
j oyed by all. Visitors were interested to learn that
such balls take place in New Orleans from the first
of the year to March, the time of the city—wide
Mardi Gras festival. Mardi Gras clubs, all over
the city, plan and hold their own preliminary balls.

It was intriguing, too, to note how the “maskers
dances” were handled at the ball, and many a dele-
gate came away with a new idea for the mixing
of dancers in a social recreation program. In the
ceremony of the ball, only the gentlemen were
masked. Lady guests were seated in special sec-
tions, around three sides of the ballroom floor.
When the music started, couriers came to these
sections, calling out the name of the lady asked to
dance. He then led her to her masked partner,

' 391

whom she joined in a grand march until all ladies
were on the floor, at which time the actual dance
began. In this way each lady, in each section, took
her turn and received from her partner—as a part
of the Mardi Gras ceremony—a souvenir of the
ball. Each masker carried a satin bag of souvenirs
hanging from his wrist. After all the ladies had
danced, masks were removed and general dancing
was the order of the day.

Industrial Conference

Representatives from industries from Denver on
the west, Detroit on the north, and the Atlantic
seaboard, attended the industrial recreation meet—
ings held September 12-13 in connection with the
3Ist National Recreation Congress in New Or-
leans. The majority of the representatives came
from “mill-town” communities, and the main theme
of the discussions centered around the employee
recreation activity programs and their relation to
the community and the families of employees. All
the speeches came directly to the point and were
followed by good participation from the floor.

George Blakeley, personnel director for the Shell
Oil Company of Norco, Louisiana, in discussing
“Company Responsibility for a Livable Commu-
nity,” stated that employee recreation programs
are now a must in industry. “It is ust good public
relations for a company to have recreation activi—
ties in which the employees, their families and the
community can participate,” he said. “A company
is responsible for a livable community, but the peo-
ple themselves should have a voice in the type of
recreation they want, and they should be allowed
to administer the program themselves.”

William T. Prichard of the General Motors Cor-
poration presided over the meeting on “Problems
in Competitive Athletics in Industry.” B. H.
Burge, recreation director of the Ethyl Corpora-
tion in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, emphasized the
importance of having department leagues in all
sports rather than a representative team in one
or two sports. Employees are becoming older, and
less active sports must be encouraged in the em—
ployee recreation program. During this session,
Charles W. Lahey of the New Orleans Commer-
cial Athletic Association explained the organiza-
tion of the industrial athletic association in New
Orleans, while that of Denver was described by its
president, Mr. McCarthy. In both cities the asso—
ciations operate in conjunction with the local rec-
reation departments.

Dr. J. J. Ray, training director of the General
Shoe Corporation of Nashville, Tennessee, pre-
sided at the session on “Balancing the Recreation

392

Program,” in which G. M. Matlack, recreation
counselor for Burlington Mills in Cramerton,
North Carolina, gave an excellent talk. He stated
that a balanced program must contain those activ-
ities in which the employees, their families and the
community are interested. The program must in-
clude, in addition to athletics and sports, music,
drama, folk and square dancing, other interests.

One of the most interesting sessions was on
“Programs for W'omen and Girls,” at which Mrs.
Catherine Simpson, formerly an industrial recre-
ation director but now director of special activities
for the Denver Department of Recreation, pre-
sided. Miss La V onna Urquhart, activities direc-
tor of “the State Farm Insurance Company of
Bloomington, Illinois, told of the program for the
oflice girls at the home office of her company,
which has a total of 2,000 employees. “Younger
women and girls will participate in almost as many
athletic activities as the men—although they are
not as competitive-minded,” she said. “Coed ac—
tivities have a great attraction for them and should
be encouraged in all plants. In our company we
have many who are approaching middle age and
our responsibility to them is great. Creative ac-
tivities have a wide appeal, not only for those wo-
men whose physical energy is not equal to active

participation in sports, but for those who like to
develop taste and skills.”

The Problem Clinic, with C. W. Johnson of
United Airlines presiding, brought up the usual
questions on organization and administration.
William C. Ziegenfus, director of recreation for
the Sun Oil Company of Marcus Hook, Pennsyl-
vania told of the program and organization in that
company, involving programs for both racial
groups. On the question of interesting the com-
munity and families, Robert A. Turner outlined
the program of the West Point Manufacturing
Company of Lanett, Alabama, which conducts rec-
reation activities in five different communities.

Ray Kooi, recreation supervisor of the Ford
Motor Company, illustrated the administration and
program of a large corporation by telling about
program operation in his company. The question
of how to organize and finance a community indus-
trial athletic association was answered by J. Earl
Schlupp, recreation director of Denver, Colorado,
who stated that a company membership fee was
ten dollars, with each company paying its pro-rata
share of the “cost of operating each league in which
it has a team. A budget for each sport activity
was prepared in advance, with each team paying
an equal amount at the start of the season, to cover
the entire cost of the league.

RECREATION

7mm a; .. SHOW WAGON

HERE COMES THE show wagon! This cry could
be heard around the Municipal Auditorium in
New Orleans when the Denver, Colorado, Show
Wagon pulled into town with its exciting mobile
variety show.

Sponsored by the Rocky Mountain News and
the city and school recreation departments of Den-
ver, the road-worthy wagon and performers made
the long trip to the Crescent City in Louisiana, to
be a feature at the 3Ist National Recreation Con-
gress. One last big, widely publicized entertain-
ment at the Paramount Theatre in Denver, with
paid admission, helped finance the unique safari
that was to call the attention of other communities
to the New Orleans meeting in a gay and amusing
way. Along the route—at Colorado Springs, Ama-
rillo, Fort Worth and Houston—the wagon stopped
to give special entertainments and to publicize the
Congress. In Fort Worth, for instance, the wagon
played to about 2,000 persons at Centennial Park.

When they rolled into town on time, however,
the staff in charge still had the jitters. This was
because they’d lost hours when the truck-theatre
bogged down in an Amarillo park, following a
heavy rain storm. Other time had been lost, too,
because the Colorado drivers stopped to pick cot-
ton. It was the first cotton they had ever seen. In
New Orleans, the theatre was set up on the lawn
of the Municipal Auditorium, where a free show
Was given every evening.

The show wagon was started in Denver two
years ago, in an effort to bring free public enter-
tainment to hundreds of folks who visit city parks
in the evening, and to give local youngsters a
chance to show what they can do.

Performers were secured by means of audi-
tions. In order to hold auditions over a six-week
period, Denver was divided into five districts.
Each week two auditions and one show were held
in one district, and the finals were held during the
sixth week at one of the city’s largest parks. Reg-
istration for auditions was held at all of the forty-
seven supervised summer playgrounds, with pros-
pects urged to sign up in their own neighborhoods.

Participants received numbers and were audi—
tioned in order, with no attempt made to build at-
tractive programs. However, each audition at-
tracted hundreds of spectators who enjoyed the in-
formality and variety of the acts. No screening
was done prior to auditions, but no serious prob-

NOVEMBER 1949

lems resulted. In each district the big show was
formed from material found in the auditions, and
a well—balanced program, including solo and group
numbers, all types of dancing, music, comedy skits
and the like, was planned.

All ages, ranging from four to sixty-seven years,
were included in each show. Care was necessary
to avoid the show wagon’s becoming a “kiddies
amateur show.” Untrained as well as trained tal-
ent was selected for the performances, and family
groups and grbups of friends in skits were en-
couraged. An average of thirty-two acts, running
about an hour and a half, was used in the shows.

The show staff included a tactful master of cere-
monies; a stage manager and assistant whose re-
sponsibility it was to handle participants back
stage, as well as carry out the program; a pianist
who accompanied all numbers, thus giving all par-
ticipants an equal chance; a sound man who, in
addition to handling the public address system dur—
ing performances, provided recordings for an hour
preceding programs; three maintenance men who
furnished props for acts and set up and removed
all equipment; two regular playground leaders who
helped maintain high standards of conduct through-

 

out the audience, particularly around the ropes
protecting the show wagon. Police details were
assigned as needed, and recreation department su-
pervisory personnel furnished their services.

Judges were ten to fifteen anonymous spectators,
plus four to six regularly attached personnel. .The
judges at auditions chose the candidates good
enough to appear in the district shows, and at each
of these performances chose the candidates out-
standing enough-to appear in the finals.

393

 

RAY WILKINS ON
Springfield College, ’49

‘
1

Square dance clubs, as well as classes, are open to all who are interested.

A STUDENT LO0KS AT THE QUESTHIN

D0 STUDENTS ASK for recreation on the campus?

The answer to that question may be found in
one worm—YES. They ask for one thing—the
opportunity to take part in various types of activi-
ties. They ask the college authorities for permis—
sion to engage in these activities on the campus,
and they ask for college assistance, either financial
or physical.

\Vhat types of activities do students request?
In talking with a number of them, and in looking
at the question from past experience, students
ask for activities covering the total scope of the
field of recreation, namely: music; arts and crafts;
the arts; the dance; camps, camping, and conserva-
tion ; nature and exploration; social activities;
drama; athletics and sports. This may seem to be
a very large area to be covered by a college recrea—
tion program. To those administrators who are
not anxious to accept the responsibility for assist-
ing in recreation on the campus, the area is a
large one. However, as will be made clear later,
the job of the administrator may not be as diflicult
as he thinks.

Many students seek the opportunity to get to
know their instructors as individuals outside of the
classroom rather than merely as people who give
formal lectures and dream up tricky exams. This
last point has come to a focus in the educational

394,

system today. The greater maturity of the ex-
serviceman and his intense interest in the subject
matter of a course, above and beyond that pre-
sented in lectures, demand a closer association of
teacher and pupil.

Having attended two other colleges before com-
ing to Springfield College, I can look back on these
experiences, and compare them with the present
one. During a year and a half at one institution,
and a year at another, I now realize that, other
than the traditional activities generally found in all
educational institutions—such as glee club, band,
dramatics club and intramural activities—really
very little was done in the field of recreation.
Surely the time has come for college authorities to
realize that recreation on the campus should go
far beyond the traditional stage? Opportunity
should be provided for students to express them—
selves, and an attempt made to discover their needs
and interests.

In either of the colleges previously attended,
no such attitude was evidenced on the part of the
college authorities or faculty. For instance, the
faculty and the administration did not seem to wel-
come any personal visits by students. then such
were made, it was generally for some special
reason, often unfavorable to the student.

\\’hat is being done at Springfield College? To

6

RECREATION

The Place of Recreation in the Total College Curriculum

begin with, there is not one of the nine areas men—
tioned above which is not included in the program
one way or the other—and various degrees of each
area are covered. In music, for instance, in addi-
tion to glee club and band activities, courses in
song-directing, appreciation, and' vocal quartet
assistance are available. The arts and crafts studio
is open during specified hours, with instruction
available to anyone interested in furthering his
hobby, and for those who want to learn new crafts.
Art is represented in various courses in painting
and sketching. The dance is offered through danc-
ing classes, a square dance club, and a club for
those interested in learning how to call square
dances. Camping and conservation are presented
through the use of the camp facilities owned by the
college, as well as through courses. Nature and
exploration are offered through the facilities of the
camp, as well as through the Outing Club. Social
activities—bridge tournaments, informal dances—
are covered through the facilities of the Student
Union. Drama activities are covered through the
activities of the Dramatics Club, the Radio Thea-
tre Club and through drama classes. Last but not
least, athletics and sports are featured in at least
twenty-three different activities.

Why has it been possible for recreation to be-
come so much a part of the campus life at this col-
lege? Because, through the administration at
Springfield, the principles of recreation fit in with
the general philosophy of the purpose of the insti-
tution. Here, students are being taught to work
with others, to assist others in an attempt to de—
velop a totally integrated personality. How better
to teach students than to put the theory of the
classroom into practice on the campus! a.

It has been commonly said by faculty members
at Springfield that if they wish to get any work
done they have to leave their office because there
are so many students coming in for chats. The
chats may deal with anything from Russia’s inten-
tions in the present crisis to the status of the
Brooklyn Dodgers. There is no reason why such
an “Open door” policy cannot exist elsewhere.

Why should colleges accept the responsibility
for recreation on the campus—both curricula and
extra-curricula? Because there are many students

NOVEMBER 1949

Part III

who, up until the time they attend such an insti—
tution, have never had an opportunity such as is
being discussed here. Therefore, it would seem
that colleges should provide every opportunity for
the student to prepare himself, through recreation,
for a richer and more meaningful life. In the final
analysis, creative recreation experiences may well
prove to be of greater value in life than mere

‘33,

“book larnln .

However, I should like to caution colleges
against imposing such activities upon the students.
They should wait until they request them and then
should help the students to get these activities
started. Thus, the students are free to take full
advantage of the situation and problems facing
them, and to gain added experience in the demo-
cratic administration of these activities.

W4 PW
7949

YOUR COPY OF CONGRESS PROCEED-
INGS will give you details of all meetings

at the recent 3lst National Recreation Con-
gress in New Orleans—addresses, summaries
of panel discussions and a report of the indus-
trial sessions. Meetings this year dealt with
new trends in recreation, emphasized new
areas of work—can you afford to miss this
collection of the results of nation-Wide think-
ing and experience?

The number of copies to be printed is deter-
mined by the number of prompt orders re-
ceived, so if you wait too long you may be one
of those who miss out altogether. We can’t

stress this enough: ORDER NOW!

This material should be in final printed
form early in January, if not before—price,
$2.25. Send a card immediately to:

THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York

395

“Wreck-reation” becomes Recreation through Church Leadership

Adventure in Tennessee .-

PAUL D. OLMSTEAD

REN’T THE ADVENTURES of youth often the subject of conversation when old

friends get together? “You remember when we put crabby Uncle Bill’s buggy

on top of his barn? It was two days before he could find it! And the time we

came so close to getting caught by the law and lay under the porch half the night?”
There are few who can’t remember such adventures as talk progresses.

They are a youthful necessity the world over, but in Overton County, Tennessee,
the stories and pranksters never grow old. \Vherever men gather, these old and new
stories are told. Everywhere youngsters hear men bragging about the stunts they
have pulled, and the tougher the prank, the more fame they receive.

The Local Picture

So it is that there is a tradition in this county
which calls for a record of exciting experiences if
you want to be anybody. In each community there
is one youth who is most gifted in figuring out
exciting things to do, and every community has
the perfect scapegoat who reacts most violently to
the gang’s exploits. Usually the most fun is de—
rived from the worst stunt performed without
getting caught. Gangs teach youth to lie with a
straight face whenever it is to their advantage.

Overton County has but one city, and that with
less than 3,000 citizens. There is one movie-—
specializing in westerns and crime stories. There
are two pool rooms, a small roller skating rink and
the high school gym, which is used solely for
basketball. This is the only competitive sport in
which everyone is interested. Scattered throughout
the rest of the county are small rural villages with
a church, sometimes a grade school, and at least
one general store.

Paul D. Olmstead, who i: the organizer and adviror
of the Alpine Recreation Auocz'ation, i: a reprerent-
ative of the Prerbyterian B 04rd of National Mim'om.

396

Most of the churches have Sunday School every
Sunday and one or two preaching services each
month. Some of them have a Sunday evening
young people’s meeting which is educational, social
and recreational. \Vhere there are schools there
are basketball teams for both boys and girls. Dur-
ing the school year they compete with other
schools, and every March finals are held. Team
members constantly strive for perfection in this
sport, and baskets are nailed to trees and barns
for practice.

Hunting and fishing are enjoyed by the male
population from the time theycreach their teens.
Probably the best loved of these are the sports that
require a good dog. Fox, coon, squirrel, possum
and rabbit dogs are another source of stories. 11-
legal hunting and fishing becomes a game—the
trick is to get the catch home without being seen
by the warden. If they do get caught the joke is on
them, and they gladly pay the fine.

It is against the law to make, sell or carry liquor
in the county; thus the selling price is high and
many men secretly produce it and sell it to anyone
having the price. All kinds of stories result from
this and add vicarious excitement to those listen-

RECREATION

ing. Many boys get pleasure from knowing where
they can get the stuff, while others aren’t content
just to know.

The parents of these youths work as small farm—
ers, sawmill hands and coal miners. The hours
are long, the pay small and the families large. Par-
ents have neither the time nor the energy to be
interested in the recreation of their offspring.
When boys and girls start going together there are
no living rooms for them to use, for most homes
are small. About the only chance they have for
courting is while walking to and from a religious
or social function. one of the mores of this county
is that no affection or emotion be displayed in pub-
lic except in mourning the dead. It is probably
because of this that round dancing is not practiced,
nor are games played at parties that require phys-
ical contact between boys and girls.

Thus, throughout the county, we see folkways,
mores and traditions which produce “wreck-rea—
tion” for our young people instead of “re-creation,”
which they need so badly. The church has taken
a step in the right direction with its Sunday night
social gatherings, but there are six other days in
the week during which our young people are' de-
manding excitement.

Alpine Recreation Association

As a result of these conditions, the Alpine Rec-
reation Association, now in its second year, was
organized. It wasn’t necessary to live in Alpine
long to realize that a boys’ gang was operating
busily, and that the Alpine Rural Life Center was
its target. It started because the community youth
resented the discontinuation ' of Alpine High
School, whose basketball teams were well-known
throughout the state. When the chance to be part
of these winning teams was taken from them, many
took out their disappointment on what was left of
the school. The gang got such satisfying reactions
from bedevilling the center residents that it got to
be a habit when they needed some “fun.”

The Alpine High School had closed in 1945, but
the gym, school auditorium and manual training
and repair shop continued to be maintained for
community use. The gym was used for basketball
only; the auditorium for community events such as
pie suppers, musical programs, singing games and
parties; the shop was used for wood, metal and

auto repair. Maintenance expense was taken care
of by the Rural Life Center.

For a while two men, one from the center and
one representing the community, directed the use
of the gym and the athletic field. When the cen-
ter’s man had to leave, the responsibility was left

NOVEMBER 1949

with the other man and a youth committee. For
some reason, the program eventually stopped and
the gym closed until September, 1947. During this
period the gang broke into the gym and destroyed
lights, windows, locks and fixtures; turned on the
water and left it running; used basement rooms
for a hangout at night. They also damaged the
high school building.

When a number of social events took place in
the high school auditorium in the fall of 1946, the
gang leader really took advantage of all possibili—
ties. All padlocks were stuffed with matches; low
wires were stretched across paths and roads; logs,
foot bridges, brush and trash were used to block
the only road, and there was a continual barrage
of homemade firecrackers. Similar tricks disrupted
the Sunday evening young people’s meetings.

Experimental Steps

As a resident member of the Presbyterian
church staff, I came to Alpine to train workers in
the woodworking shop. In majoring in rural com-
munity organization in college, the importance of
becoming established in a community before be-
coming involved in organization work was stressed.
Although I was not a part of any youth or adult
organization for fifteen months, I could not ignore
the tremendous youth problem.

It didn’t take me long to find out who the leader
of the gang was, and what boys were its most
active members. Early in 1947, the men in the
wood-working shop built a regulation ping-pong
table. I bought the rest of the equipment and
started teaching the game. The gang became in-
terested, and I offered to help the leader, who was
poor at playing. By the end of the spring, he could
beat me. During this coaching period he began
coming to me for advice and, as our friendship
matured, the activities of the gang decreased.

Several basketball teams were organized that
fall and, on occasions, the center director opened
the gym for practice. When this duty was turned
over to me, I suggested an organizational plan to
the young people, who liked the idea. After clear—
ing such action with the center, we formed a com—
mittee consisting of a representative from each
team, three adult men of the community, and my—
self, to manage the gym during the basketball
season. To get the money necessary to pay for the
lighting and heating, it was decided that each
team pay fifty cents for a practice night and two
dollars for the gym while using it; and each was
assigned a set practice night. The local merchant
on the committee handled the key, money, and
kept the weekly schedule of games.

397

Singing games for the young people, held in the
auditorium, had been discontinued because of the
group’s bad behavior. One night the village me—
chanic, someone very interested in youth, requested
that they be allowed to continue these games under
his direction. However, there was now a ban on
the use of the auditorium for any social event since
the building housed three small industries, so it
was necessary to use the gym for all community
gatherings. \Vith the help of the mechanic and
other adults, the gym was opened for singing
games on Friday nights.

As treasurer for the management committee, it
was obvious that we didn’t have sufficient income
to heat the gym, much less pay the light bill. The
decision was then made to have free practice nights
and collect fifty percent of the gate receipts on
games. This change improved our income but it
still wasn’t enough.

Finally, on March 31, 1948, a general meeting
was called. I reviewed the activities of the past
six months, pointed out the problems ahead, and
suggested that the group organize as the Alpine
Recreation Association, elect its officers and put
committees to work. After considerable discussion,
forty young people and six adults voted to estab-
lish such an association.

Organization and Activities

Officers were elected and an agreement was
drawn up by members of the Alpine Rural Life
Center staff governing the association’s use of the
building and grounds. Necessary committees, cover—
ing definite responsibilities, were set up. A verbal
agreement, effectively guiding the activities of the
Alpine Recreation Association. covered mainte-
nance, cooperation with ministers, types of recre-
ation activities, formation of clubs, and so forth.
The ARA is under the jurisdiction of the Board of
National Missions of the Presbyterian Church,
which had been responsible for the construction of
the gymnasium in cooperation with the Public

\Vorks Administration.

In spite of months of promoting such an organ-
ization before the step was taken, the community
youth failed to grasp the idea that they were the
organization and could make or break it. Direction
from others was too deeply ingrained to let them
assume the responsibilities of the association, and
this was the biggest problem facing the officers.

Many problems arose within the new organiza-
tion. When the girl who was elected secretary lett
Alpine, no one took her place. The president re-
signed, and his place was taken by the vice-presi-
dent, who was the mechanic vitally interested in

398

 

youth problems. Trouble was caused by different
groups of boys and girls, some groups resenting
their ofiicers. But such problems are now being re-
solved as 'they arise.

Repairs to the building have been achieved
through working bees. The young people have
built a store room, a record cabinet, replaced lights
and hinges, cleaned basements, repaired leaks, in-
stalled outdoor lights and created a parking area of
crushed rock.

This gym was built to service the youth of the
entire Cumberland' Mountain Presbytery and,
under the Alpine Recreation. Association, this is
once more being achieved. Expenses of the pro—
gram now are met by charging each local group,
except the grade school, fifty cents a night for
practice sessions, while each outside group pays a
dollar an hour for the use of the building. The
association collects fifty percent of the gate receipts
from all games. The Alpine young people are re-
sponsible for the building and maintenance work,
assisted by grade school members who keep the
gym floor clean.

For the first time, the ARA is on firm finan-
cial ground with a bank balance. It hopes to have
sufficient funds soon to sand and refinish the gym
floor, to build individual team lockers in the gym,
to have a new scoreboard made, and to buy some
outdoor recreation equipment.

Since the recreation association started, there
has been little vandalism in Alpine. Nothing in the
community was disturbed last Halloween, and there
has been only one broken window light in the gym.
It has been a long time since there has been any
sign of gang “wreck-reation.” But the Alpine Rec-
reation Association still has a lot to accomplish and
will have to organize exciting and new group ac—
tivities if it is to hold on to the very valuable
gains it has made.

Just Out! 50:

PERSONNEL STANDARDS IN

[gecreafion oanerd/zip

A Committee Report

What They Are How to Apply Them

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York IO, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Winter Wonderland Camp-——Convinced that
young America needs thorough orientation in win-
ter recreation in order to obtain the maximum
benefits in future years, President Daniel L. Marsh
of Boston University and Dean George K. Ma-
kechnie of the Boston University College of Phys—
ical Education for Women have undertaken an in—
teresting venture—Sargent Winter Camp.

In December of this year, the 500-acre estab-
lishment in the Monadnock area of Peterborough,
New Hampshire, will be opened for its third sea-
son of three-month camping sessions. Once again,
pre-college and college boys and girls will be of-
fered the rich experience of learning and playing
together out-of-doors. Program emphasis will be on
well—planned education-recreation in the how’s and
why’s of such popular activities as skiing, skating,
dog sledding, ice fishing and folk dancing. In ad—
dition, well—chosen, skilled leaders will help the
campers get the most out of cook—outs and sleep-
outs, instructional movies, songs and games, and
other fun.

For more detailed information on the Boston
University-sponsored proect, write to Dean George

K. Makechnie, 6 Everett Street, Cambridge 38,
Massachusetts.

City-Owned Country Club—Dearborn, Mich-
igan, has branched out with a new project. It
owns a pleasant domain of 346 acres where its
more than 80,000 residents can fish, swim, row,
play and relax with a feeling of proprietorship.
.The all-year—round resort, which cost the taxpay—

NOVEMBER 1949

s .
. - ' y'
x r .4’ ‘ V
0,.
V' . "
i ..
‘ ' is
r- ' ‘ '
:a r" : a
in.
.

x...ar‘

Both the campers and the dogs seem to enjoy this frolic in the 5110‘
Dog sledding can be oneq of the favorite activities at a winter cam

ers $92,000 about two years ago, is open to young
and old alike, but non-Dearbornites are barred.

The city—owned country club lies along the Hu-
ron River, one mile west of Milford, thirty-five
miles from Dearborn, and features a thirty—acre
lake, seventy metal boats, 500 picnic tables, as
well as camp stoves and sites, spring—fed drinking
fountains; swings, slides and special iishing docks
for the children ; and two sets of farm buildings for
winter use.

%

Modern Lilliputians—There’s something about
a festival that no one can resist, and this again
proved true when the Jefferson County Playground
and Recreation Board of Louisville, Kentucky,
staged its annual folk festival one recent summer
evening. More than 1,000 people came to the Hood-
lighted softball field at Medora School to watch
the performances of approximately 150 children
from iifteen Jefferson County playgrounds.

The festival was built around the theme of
“Gulliver’s Travels,” and the children danced the
folk dances of ten nations that Gulliver might have
visited. Dressed in colorful costumes—made by
mothers and youngsters working together in play-
ground craft classes—five to thirteen-year-old boys
and girls danced and sang the English “Looby
Loo,” the Danish “Schottische,” the American
“Red River Valley” to the tinkle of a piano on the
side of the ball field. Flags of various nations
strung around the field and a fifteen—foot papier—

mache figure of the story’s hero also added to the ~

colorful event.

39‘)

5* ’ In
1?. 

 

Christmas is the season of laughter, of warm
fellowship and kindliness. Let your parties, there-
fore, be as'bright as holly berries, as jolly as old
St. Nick and, in friendliness,_ as warm as a burn—
ing Yule log.

The program, of course, should depend upon the
type of party you are giving. As the old saying
goes, “Christmas is the time for giving,” and
parties usually center around that theme. Some-
times entertainment is complete with the gift-giving
and the singing of Christmas carols. Often a
Christmas party is happiest when carols are sung
and a story is told, or a Christmas play presented.
There are other times, however, when the playing
of games makes it truly a “blithe, jolly, and gay”
occasion. For such times as these, the following
are suggested:

Gift Exchange—Here’s a novel way of pre-
senting gifts and getting the party off to a gay
start at the same time. The gifts are inexpensive
but each one pokes a friendly joke at the receiver’s
pet hobby or peculiar whims. The western story
fan receives a toy holster and gun; the swing ad-
dict, a miniature piano; the girl who loves to dance,
a pair of doll’s shoes. The gifts are wrapped and
a tag with the receiver’s name is put on the out-
side. Then the gifts are wrapped again, and an-
other name tied to the outside. Each gift is
wrapped in this way seven or eight times. The
gifts are distributed,“ but when Mary Morrissey
opens hers and finds that it is really for Peggy
Lynch, she must hunt for Peg and hand her the
package. The packages keep on changing hands
and, after much hilarious passing to and fro, each
one tinally reaches the person for whom it’s in-
tended. Shouts of laughter greet the opening of
the gift as each guest iinds the surprise.

 

'chrinted from a bulletin of Martinsvilk, Virginia. Recreation
Department.

400

YULETIDE FMLIW

Games for a Truly Jolly Occasion

Toys in the Manner of Adverbs—A guessing
game with little action but much merriment is
‘I'

played with one person as It.” He stands in the
center, the others sit in a circle. “It” thinks of an

'adverb which the other players try to guess through

actions he performs at their directions. Since it is
Christmas and everyone is toy—minded, the players
name toys which “it” must imitate in the manner
of an adverb. Suppose he has chosen the adverb
“sadly”. One of the players in the circle asks him
to imitate a train, so “it” chugs and puffs “sadly”
around the circle. It’s a little diflicult to make a
train sad, so the adverb isn’t guessed and other
toys are mentioned. Most likely the baby doll who
calls out “mama” very sadly will give the clue.
The person who calls out the correct adverb be-
comes “it” and chooses another word.

Know Your Number—This is another amus-
ing game for the quick witted, especially at Christ—
mas time when people are thinking of books as
Christmas presents for grown—ups and children, and
old rhymes and titles come easily to mind. As in the
previous game, one person is chosen to be “it”. He
points to one of the players in the circle and men-
tions any number up to seventeen. Before “it” can
count to ten, the person indicated must repeat a
well-known phrase, a rhyme, a song, or a book
title in which the number appears. If “it” says
three, the answer might be “Three Little Pigs,”
“Three Men in a Tub.” The reply, when he men-
tions the number sixteen, might be, “Sweet Six-
teen and Never Been Kissed.” There’s no telling
what answers you will get with your number ques-
tions. Some of them are sure to be unexpected and
all of them funny. Anyone who cannot give an
answer before the time is up becomes questioner.

On the Christmas Tree—Each person receives
a list of clues to articles which will be on the

Christmas tree. After everyone has had time to.
O

RECREATION

. write down his answers, read the correct ones.

. Clues ' Answers
1. Father to John Barleycorn. Popcorn
2. A container plus a word that

sounds like a synonym for un-

interesting Can-dle
3. A title, a letter and a part of the

foot. Mistletoe
4. A bone plus a French word

meaning good. Rib-bon

5. The name of a famous inventor. Bell
6. Sometimes called “the first na-
tional bank.” Stocking
7. A bed and a measure of weight. Cot-ton
8. This has its points. Star
9. Another word for telegram. Wire
10. A metal plus a word meaning to
vend. Tin—sel

Christmas Story—The beloved old story, “The
Night Before Christmas,” is a source of great mer-
riment when made into a guessing game. Don’t re—
fer to the story until the end. Just announce that
you are going to play another guessing game. Give
' each player a pencil and a piece of paper. Have
the players write down the left hand side of their
papers the numbers from I to 22 in sequence. Now
r ask them to write next to each space in the follow-
ing order: 1, part of a day; 2, type of building;
3, present participle of a verb; 4, name of an ani-
mal; 5, piece of wearing apparel; 6, part of the
house; 7, prominent person; 8, piece of furniture;
9, piece of wearing apparel; 10, another piece of
wearing apparel; 11, some part of the body; 12,
one of the seasons; I 3, past tense of a verb; 14,
piece of furniture; 15, part of a house; 16, past
tense of a verb; 17, part of the body; 18, toy; 19,
number; 20, name of an animal; 21, adjective; 22,
period of time.

When the players have filled in the last Space,
give the first player a c0py of “The Night Before
Christmas” with certain words omitted. The first
player reads the story, filling in the spaces with the
words he has written down. After he finishes his
jumbled version, the other players do the same in
turn. Some of the versions will probably make
surprising good sense in a ridiculous sort of way.

Here is the story showing the blank spaces
where words are to be substituted by the players:
“ ‘Twas the—( I)—before Christmas, and all
through the—(2.)—
Not a creature was—(3)—, not even a—(4)—
The—( 5)—were hung by the—(6)—with care,
In hopes that—(7)——soon would be there.

NOVEMBER 1949

The children were nestled all snug in their—
(8)-—.

And mama in her—(9)——, and I in my—(10)——

Had just settled our—(11)——for a long—(12)
—nap

When out on the lawn there rose such a clatter,

I—(13)-—from the—(14)——to see what was the
matter.

Away to the—(15)—I flew like a flash,

Tore open the shutters and—(16)——up the sash

When what to my wondering—(17)—should
appear

But a miniature—(18)—and—(19)—tiny——-—
(20)—

VVith a little—(21)—driver so lively and quick

I knew in a—g(22)——it must be Saint Nick.”

In the Sock—\Nire open the top of a man’s
sock and hang the sock in the doorway or from

the ceiling. Players stand five feet from the sock
and toss pennies into it.

Ring the Bell—SuSpend a holly wreath from
the ceiling and in the center of the wreath dangle
a tinkling bell. Players take turns tossing cotton
snowballs at the bell. Each one is allowed to try
three times and the one who rings the bell most
often receives a string of silver bells for his own
Christmas tree. '

Fixing-Up Old Nick—Have the five or six
players who made the lowest score in the last con-
test perform in this game. Outline the figure of
Santa Claus on a large 'piece of cardboard and tack
it to the wall. Leave off his arms and don’t draw
in the face, but cut out of cardboard the features
you omit. Give one to each of the players. Blind—
fold them in turn, lead them up to the drawing and
let them pin on the missing features. When your
blind helpers get through with him your Santa
Claus will probably hold his nose in his hand, have
one ear on his foot, and look through an eye placed
over the tassel of his cap.

Reindeer Race—The reindeer are fleet—footed
animals cut out of cardboard. Each person makes
his own, then races it against the others by fan-
ning the reindeer with a piece of stiff cardboard.
Give each person a card, eight by ten inches in
size. Provide a double pattern, with hornless rein-
deer placed back to back, to make drawing and
cutting speedier for your guests. Cut out the body
flI'St and fold along back. Draw and cut out the
horns and slip them into a slit made on the rein-
deer’s back. Put paper clips on the hind legs to

401

weigh 'tuem dew: _ N m 3 our reindeer is read} 1.
Ey with the wind.

The reindeer may slide sideways. but that does
not sp'J-il the fun. If the reindeer turns over, how-
ever, it must be righted before the race can be con-
tinued. Have the players race their reindeer two
at a time across a long table, or have any number
race them at the same time on the fiber. Have
marked or imaginary lanes. The players can con-
trol the direction of the reindeer when they are
fanning them but if you don’t have this rule some
at the players may. in their excitement, block off
the other reindeer by blowing their own across 11L
track with a few strong gusts.

Song C'haradeszhis is one of the joiliest
games we know. If your group has never played it
before, you could tind no better game than this to
bring your party to a close. The players are sure
to think of Christmas songs which will keep the
game in the holiday spirit.

Titles of carols or Christmas songs may be used.
Divide the group into four teams or more depend-
ing on size. Each team acts out in pantomime a
verse or title to a Christmas song such as “Santa
Claus is Coming to Town,” “Deck the Halls with
Boughs of Holly,” “Oh, “'hat Fun It Is to Ride
in a One Horse Open Sleigh.”

in

Recreation

Appeal

EASILY FOLDED — MOVED

TRAMPOLINING

THE ALL-SEASONS SPORT

Bouncing Good Fun—Indoors or Outdoors.
Founded by NISSEN, Creator and Pioneer of
America’s First Standard

TRAMPOLINE*

Three Models: 49-1' —— 549-1’ — 5000-1'

Write for FREE LITERATURE
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

,-

200A AVENUE NW CEDAR "RAPlbsito'WAi

 

     
   
  
   
  

ATHLETIC EQJUIPM‘E
f"‘~~ Firs! Clwice

 for
Every sport!

g.
Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

/W m- m
1w: fl”!!! nv rw‘t r1510 I
MANUFACIUIING COM'ANY o 51. [OBIS J

  

"vI @er 5'23 1' az'" " 9'11:
. r5 "ir- -""n 3‘ 3 Ann; Sen-7
5-5- 3-1 5." be
:3 tantra ‘4‘," Era... — V-
- .pa 1' c-m I “It-4:1. :-'

1' .J" H‘ITVI

"at? (Sr-5: : - 'P .2'"':
Ex. 1*!" . rsyu: «n . '2

“I'll :3 ;-I'.'- rt. "Va"-

cE-'- -c'-z.

 

RECREATION "

       
  

Wollman
Memunal

' Center

 

Miss Kate Wollman, donor.

NOVEMBER 1949

MEMORIAL

PLAYGROUND

 

o A GROUND—BREAKING CEREMONY which, according to Commissioner
of Parks Robert Moses of New York City, was the realization of a fifteen-
year-old dream, took place last October 7 in Central Park. In the pic—
turesque amphitheatre-like area at the lower end of the park, ground
was broken to start the deveIOpment of the W ollman Memorial Recrea-
tion Center.

It was a very moving ceremony in which Mayor William O’Dwyer,
Robert Moses and Borough President Hugo Rogers told of the need for
playgrounds and recreation facilities in New York City, and of the
dreams that they have had for meeting these needs. They also expressed
their personal and official happiness in seeing this great project under—
way.
All were deeply impressed with the address of Miss Kate Wollman,

' the donor, who told of her joy in being able to provide this important

recreation facility and of how honored she felt at the city’s acceptance.
She expressed regret that other members of the family could not be pres-
ent to share in this satisfaction.

The National Recreation Association was happy to be represented
at the ceremonies because of the long interest of the Wollman family in
its work—to which Henry Wollman began contributing in 1915. After
his death and the establishment of the W ollman Foundation, the late John
H. Finley, president of the National Recreation Association, was ap-
pointed a trustee. Miss Kate Wollman has generously continued this in-
terest in the Association’s work and in the whole field of parks and recre-
ation, as indicated in her magnificent provision for New York City.

The Wollman Memorial Recreation Center, made possible by a
$600,000 gift from Miss Wollman, in memory of her parents and de—
ceased brothers, will be located immediately north of the fifty—ninth street
pond in the southeast corner of Central Park. Its outstanding feature
will be a large, artificial ice-skating rink, which will provide outdoor ice
skating from the end of October to late spring. Throughout the other
months, the rink will be used for roller skating, dancing and concerts.
Also included in the memorial is a semi-circular building at the northerly
end of the rink to house the refrigerating equipment, dressing rooms, a
food concession, skate sh0p, and other such facilities. A completely
equipped playground—with swings, seesaws, sand pit and shower basin
—will be constructed on the roof of the building, and will extend back.
into the_park. ‘

A memorial tablet, giving the names of the members of the Wollman

.‘ family in 'whose honor the gift is made, will be placed in the interior of

the building near the main entrance.



DIAMO N D
OFFICIAL

SUPER RINGER SETS

PITCHING HORSESHOES

The finest pitching horseshoes ever made.
Drop forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking With-
out destroying dead falling qualities.

Write for your catalog Diamond
Pitching Horseshoes and Accessories

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE
COMPANY

4614 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

 

Wu leecreafion 2)::recfor:

o Are you satisfied that your community
is getting the most out Of its recreation
dollar? If not, why not consider

Municipal Recreation Administration

This practical correspondence course is
especially designed for recreation administra-
tors and leaders who are responsible for the
planning and direction Of municipal recreation
programs.

Available through either individual or group
enrollments, this course includes a 516-page
textbook, individualized lesson instruction, and
certificate upon satisfactory completion. Entire

cost $35.

(Approved under G. 1. Bill)

For details write

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING
IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION

Conducted since 1934 by

THE INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS' ASSOCIATION
1313 East 60th Street Chicago 37

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

THE NATIONAL SECTION
OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

of the

American Association for Health,

Physical Education, and Recreation

Jdluwunced f/zaf

Beginning August 1, 1949 the” official
publisher for all the publications and
Oliicial Sport Guides of the National
Section on Women’s Athletics will be the
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION
of the NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIA-
TION instead of A. S. Barnes 82 Co.

All orders should be addressed to:

National Section on Women’s Athletics

1201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.

Recognized by lead-
ing Sport and Recre—
ational Directors over
the country as a
completely new inno-
vation for individual
awards—from $1.25
to $12.50. Priced low
enough to fit every
budget. The person-
alized gold inscribed
nameplates are a con-
siderable saving over
the conventional
method of engraving.

Orders shipped in 5
days with inscribed
plates.

\.
Catalog

I
" SAMPLES
SENT FOR 

. 
‘ I !

   

  

I

      

4.2 West 28th Street, New York 1, N. Y

RECREATION

Santa Claus School

SANTA CLAUS SOON will be coming to town-—
and in Wilmington, Delaware, he’ll be as close
as possible to the fat, cheerful, “jolly old elf” that
all folks picture him. In order to develop natural
and realistic Santa Clauses, the Recreation and
Promotion Service of Wilmington is holding a
Santa Claus School in early December. Here,
Without charge, anyone interested in being a Santa
Claus will be able to learn the proper techniques
and background information about Santa’s char-
acter and the history of Christmas, and people who
have been a Santa will have the opportunity to ex-
change ideas on how to be a good one.

Volunteer leaders, experienced in the Kris
Kringle role, will conduct the two sessions of the
school. Pupils will be taught the importance of a
kindly and friendly personality, with a voice full
of sincerity and enthusiasm. There will be demon-
strations of good use of make-up and on achieving
the proper physique-—with a pillow, if necessary.
Discussions will be held on the costume—standard
red coat and pants with fur trimming, white beard
and wig, black belt, leather boot tops and heavy
shoes—and possible properties, such as a pack,
sleigh bells, snow shoes, a large book for children’s
names.

Since many of these Santas will pay their visits in
a home, church, or club, they’ll be taught about en-
trances and exits, which should be lively and quick.
A little noise outside, with instructions to the rein-
deer, and opening the door with a “Merry Christ-
mas to all” and some chatter will result in a hearty
and friendly atmosphere. St. Nick should be care-
ful not to be raucous or boisterous. His visits are
brief and cheerful, and he should make only true
statements to children, with no promises of what
they will find in their Christmas stockings.

In addition, Recreation Promotion and Service
has conducted a successful Santa Claus suit rental
service for three years, charging $3.00 to churches,
PTA and youth groups, and $5.00 to individuals,
industrial and private groups. Last year their six

suits were rented eighty-one times, made possible.

by the cooperation of all users. It was not unusual
for one group to unish with a suit and for a second

NOVEMBER 1949

group to pick it up to take directly to another
party. A check list of articles contained in the box
with the suit has facilitated the service, avoiding
losses, and everyone takes good care of the outfits,
which are cleaned whenever possible.

It is interesting to note here that a school for
store or commercialSantas was established in New
York State in 1937. A flourishing institution now,
it puts out school brochures containing tips on
what Mr. and Mrs. Santa should wear, and de-
cribing the subjects covered in the course. Any
recreation people wishing to pick up on Wilming-
ton’s good idea for improving local Santas might
find some good suggestions in these promotion

leaflets. They are available from the Santa Claus
School, Albion, New York.

 

IN 5 DAYS - YOUR GROUP CAN LEARN

  

RANCH DANCES

I). AND

m  SQUARE DANCES.

    

with expert instruction
from a leading professional!

Start your group off right in the
nation’s latest dance sensation, Western Ranch'Dances and
Square Dances—with tOp-notch instruction in your city by
Herb Greggerson, leader of the famous Blue Bonnet team
that appeared at NY World’s Fair and Madison Square
Garden. Write for information on dates available and cost.

VISIT OUR RUIDOSO AND EL PASO SCHOOLS

.r’

Plan your next vacation to include one of these annual
Greg‘gerson Ranch Dance schools: Ruidoso, New Mexico—
iirst week in June. last week in August. El Paso—last
week in December, during the gala Sun Carnival.

Send now for

HERB’S BLUE
BONNET CALLS

Over 50 favorite calls, together with com-

plete instructions and photo illustrations.
More than 25,000 copies sold! $1 .50
Postpaid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

H. F. GREGGERSON, JR.
Box A-306'l, Station A, El Paso, Texas

 

405

Porter Basketball Backstops are

W’

    

U

PORTER NO. 212-WS window span type of backstop is an
ingenious adaptation used where building truss construction
will not permit installation of a suspended-and-braced type
of backstop.

To be completely satisfactory and safe, basket-
ball backstops must be planned and designed
by people with specialized engineering know-
how. Building conditions vary widely, and every
backstop installation varies 'accordingly.

Porter engineers are equal to any backstop
problem, no matter how specialized. They can
draw upon a vast storehouse of knowledge
gained through several generations of serving
the nation’s leading schools, universities, clubs
and stadiums.

REAR VIEW Why don't you let Porter engineers advise and
help you, without cost or obligation, of course?
Usually, stock models from Porter's complete line
can meet your exact requirements, and save you
money. If your building is in the drawing board

 

FREE CATAlOG GLADLY SENT. Now is the time to re-
place worn, out-dated rectangular banks with the new

all-steel official Porter fan-shaped bank. Farmed from Slage' it is Wise '0 talk GbOUl bchStops now! and
a single sheet of steel to a flawlessly Ismoath face with avoid problems and disappointments later.
3:353?ejgi'gei'jlfgj “"d ‘°'°"""‘°"” We“ ‘°’ IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT 0E FAN-SHAPED BANKS
PORTER CAN SUPPLY YOUR EVERY BACKSTOP AND GYM EQUIPMENT NEED  
M ‘l L

THE L E. CORPORATION
orrAINA. ILLINOIS

MANUFAUURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG

 

Reg. u.s. POLOH. STRUCTURE

 

406 RECREATION

WHA T IS Y0 UR THANKS GIVING I. Q. .9

I. b) In every state of the union, in all territories
and the District of Columbia.

2. b) The time of the Civil War. Since Abraham
Lincoln’s Thanksgiving Proclamation in 1863, all
presidents have issued yearly proclamations and,
with the exception of Franklin D. Roosevelt, have
always designated the last Thursday in November.
3. c) Mrs. Sara J. Hale. As editor of Godey’s
Lady’s Book, Mrs. Hale, over a period of more
than thirty years, wrote many articles urging the
celebration of Thanksgiving Day on the last Thurs-
day in November. She also wrote many letters to
presidents in office, to the governors of the states,
and to members of Congress, urging the fixing of
a definite date for Thanksgiving.

4.. a) The standard of living. The American
standard of living is the highest in the history of
the world. With less than eight percent of the
world’s population, we produce forty-two percent
of the world’s wealth. The American standard of
' living is at least ten times greater than that of the
Soviet Union.

5. d) The Bill of Rights. Freedom of religion is
guaranteed by the Bill of Rights in amendment one
which reads in part as follows: “Congress shall
make no law respecting an establishment of reli-
gion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. . .”
6. d) A system ofself—government. In the 'May-
flower Compact the Pilgrims agreed to “'combine
together in one body and to submit to such govern-
ment and governors as we should by common con—
sent agree to make and choose.”

7. d) Governor Bradford of the Plymouth Colony.
Governor Bradford issued the first Thanksgiving
Proclamation in 1621 in return for the bountiful
harvest which followed several months of cold,
hunger and disease.

8. d) By the “Nine Promises of a Good Citizen.”
These nine promises provide a definite formula for
encouraging a more active, personal citizenship.
The best way to express our gratitude is not by
words, but by our actions as good citizens.

NOVEMBER 1949

Answers

9. True) Slavery was not abolished throughout
the United States until the 13th amendment was
ratified. ..

10. True) Compulsory labor or involuntary servi-
tude, except as a punishment for committing a
crime of which a person has been convicted, was
abolished by the 13th amendment.

11. False) The crime rate for 1947 rose 13.6 per-
cent above that of 1946. Here is the reason for
living up to promise three of the “Nine Promises
of a Good Citizen”———“I will respect and obey the
laws. I will assist public officials in preventing
crime and the courts in giving evidence.”

12. True) If our American heritage is to be pre-
served and handed down to future generations,
each citizen must feel morally responsible for con—
tributing to the betterment of his community, state
and nation.

13. False) The Constitution did not provide a
secret ballot but it was introduced by various states
after the Civil War.

14. False) It took hard work and constant appli—
cation for the Pilgrims to raise crops and to get
fish from the sea to feed their families.

15. False) Although the first amendment of the
United States Constitution provides separation of
church and state, there is no such separation in
England. The official state church is the Church
of England and it is supported by government
funds.

16. True) Each of the state constitutions contains
a Bill of Rights similar to the Bill of Rights in the
United States Constitution, giving the individual
added protection against operation by state or local
officials.

17. False) The Pilgrims were persecuted in Eng-
land because of their religious beliefs and that is
why they tied to the Netherlands and from the
Netherlands to the New World. Although the Pil-
grims wanted the opportunity to practice their own
religion, they did not grant toleration or religious
freedom to Jews, Catholics or other Protestants.

407

Magazines and Pamphlets

Recently Received Containing Articles of
Current Interest to the Recreation Worker

 

Parks and Recreation, August 1949
The Out-of-Doors for Summer, Ernest V. Blohm.
Park and Recreation \Veek Observed in Many
Places.
Lighted Baseball Field at Battle Creek, Michigan,
C. 0. Brown.
Youth Leaders’ Digest, Summer 1949
Trip Insurance, John A. Ledlie.
College Recreation Association, Garrett Eppley.
Report of National Conference on Community Re-
sponsibility to Our Peacetime Servicemen and
Women, May 1949. President’s Committee on
Religion and Welfare in the Armed Forces, Tem-
porary Building “R,” \Vashington 25, D. C.
Beach and Pool, August 1949 -
The Pressure Leaf Filter.
Integration of a Community Swim Program.
The Swimming Pool, A Vital Part of Community
Life.
Personal Report, Forbes H. Norris, Jr.
Public Welfare, August-September 1949
The Use of Slide Films in Public Relations, Mildred
P. Beard.
1949-1950 Teaching Aids Catalogue, School Service
Department, \Vestinghouse Electric Corporation,
306 Fourth Avenue, Box 1017, Pittsburgh 30,
Pennsylvania. Free.
Nation’s Schools, September 1949
\Vhat Makes a Good Noon-Hour Program, William
B. Axtell and Darrol E. Robinson.
School Planning—Three Elementary Schools Link-
ing Home and Community.
Sing Together—1949 Girl Scout Songbook. Girl Scouts
of the U.S.A., 155 East 44 Street, New York 17,
New York. $.50.
Architectural Record, September 1949
Recreation Center for San Francisco’s Chinese Pop-
ulation, \Villiam Gladstone Merchant.
Safety Education, September 1949
\Vheeling Safety, Thomas B. F. Spangler and Dali—
bor W. Kralovec.
Playground Precautions, Berra M. Peterson.
Parks and Recreation, September 1949
Handball in the Parks and Playgrounds of New
York City.
Recreation in the National Forests, Ray E. Bassett.
Th}? 'Igltlalr Plan—A School Camp Venture, William
. a .
Forest Recreation, Southwide, Winton H. Reinsmith.
The Maintenance Mart.

REMINDER
W’ " 9km!
(Mia/kite ggwyme/

is built by
5k

for catalog, address:

Dept. R, w. .I. vou RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 25th St.

los Angeles 11, Calif.

*Reg. U. 5'. Pat. OH.

 

 

 

0W
BIOGRAW- HILL
Books

Principles of Health Education Applied

By CLIFFORD LEE BROWNELL, Columbia University.
McGraw-Hill Series in Health Education, Physical
Education and Recreation. 354 pages, $3.75

Here is a text which aims to present clearly and concisely
the basic concepts underlying the development of health
education in schools, colleges, and communities. The
author approaches the subject with the consideration of
the economic, political, and social forces which explain
deveIOpments in health education, and the probable align-
ment of these forces in predicting future developments.

Introduction to Community Recreation

By GEORGE D. BUTLER, National Recreation Asso-
ciation. Second edition. 558 pages, $4.50

A revision of a popular book dealing with methods and
problems of organizing and administering a community
recreation program. It will give the reader a comprehen-
sive picture of community recreation in the United States.
The book includes sections covering thenature, extent,
significance, and history of community recreation, with
extensive material on the personnel to administer pro-
grams.

Modern Football

By H. O. CRISLER, University of Michigan. 286
pages, $3.75

In this new book one of the master football strategists of
our time analyzes and explains the fundamental and line '
points of the game. The first chapters are devoted to the
basic arts of football while the later chapters eXplain the
Operation of most formations used today and analyze

the best defense for each.

Championship Technique in Track and Field

By DEAN B. CROMWELL, University of Southern
California. With the collaboration of AL WESSON.

Olympic Games edition. 333 pages, $4.00

Explains in great detail and with concrete examples the
successt techniques in track and field and how they are
best deve10ped. The book starts with introductory chap-
ters on training and similar matters and then devotes
thirteen chapters to the principal categories of track and
field events. The last chapter covers the 1948 Olympic

Games.

Send for copies an approval

McGRAW-HILL
BOOK COMPANY, Inc.

330 WEST 42nd STREET NEW YORK 18, N. Y.

 

 

RECREATION

Recred tion M1125

Recreation Society Elections

New officers of the Amer-
ican Recreation Society for
1949-50, announced at its
annual meeting in New Or—
leans just prior to the 3Ist
National Recreation Con-
gress, are as follows:

President, Charles K.

Charles K. Brightbill Brightbin; first Vice'PrESi'

dent, Harry H. Stoops;
second vice—president, Gerald B. Fitzgerald; secre—
tary, Miss Madolin Cannon; treasurer, Charles M.
Graves.

Members—at-large of the Administrative Coun-
cil are: G. Ott Romney, 0. C. Rose, C. R. Wood,
Jay VerLee, Charles F. Weckwerth.

The following newly-elected Fellows of the So-
ciety were honored at appropriate ceremonies: J.
R. Batchelor, Charles K. Brightbill, John W.
Faust, Miss Corinne Fonde, Harold Meyer,
Wayne Sommers.

 

Chosen by UNESCO

UNESCO—United Nations Economic Scien-
tific and Cultural Organization—has accepted the
Creative Drama Project of Seattle, W'ashington,
for use throughout the world. UNESCO will send
teachers from Europe to the University of Wash-
ington and Northwestern University to study cre-
ative dramatics. They will then take what they
have learned back to their own countries and use
it in teaching their children to understand other
peoples by “being” them in plays of their own.

Agnes Haaga, who left the Memphis, Tennes-
see, recreation department to teach creative dra—
matics at the University of Washington, says:
“We don’t teach children to ‘act the part’ of this
or that person. We teach them to ‘be’ that per—
son.” It is this feature of the program, she feels,
that particularly appealed to UNESCO.

Creative dramatics is playmaking by the chil—
dren themselves, using no stage, props or costumes
except those created by the youngsters as they go
along. Miss Haaga believes in it as an integration
of play-acting, playing and education, and already
she has trained scores of leaders who have gone
out to churches, schools, libraries, recreation de-

NOVEMBER 1949

partments and Junior Leagues to supervise chil—
dren in “making plays,” thus helping them to bet—
ter social and emotional adjustment.

Families Remembered

The recently opened college union building of
the University of Minnesota—its third—is de-
signed to serve the school’s married student pop-
ulation. It was planned to provide facilities and
service for the families of students, with special at-
tention given to the problems met in raising small
children while attending a university.

This recreation center for the families of “Uni—
versity Village” is housed in a two-story building,
which was moved to the village and remodeled to
meet the needs of the housing project. The first
floor includes a large lounge and library, a coffee
shop, a game room and a small office. Modern
folding curtains were installed to divide the lounge
and coffee shop to make operation easier, and the
combined area seats 250. On the second floor there
is a large study-lounge, a play center equipped to
care for twenty-five pre-school age children at one
time, a sewing room with two electric machines,
and a conference room for committee meetings.

New Titles Adopted

Adoption of ‘standardized recreation titles by the
New Jersey Civil Service Department, conform—
ing to national standards as recommended by the
national Leadership Standards Committee, was re—
cently achieved by the Public Recreation Associa-
tion of New Jersey. The Association used the
“Recreation Leadership Standards” report of the
1948 National Recreation Congress as the basis of
its recommendations.

Titles were revised, not only in recreation, but
in other municipal and county fields, to improve
their services to governing bodies. The step was
necessitated by the increase of civil service juris—
dictions, resulting in growth from 900 titles in 1908
to 3,000 in 1948. As many‘ as seventeen different
recreation titles applied to a specific job. In some
communities supervisors were classified as direc-
tors, and vice versa. Such conditions created con-
fusion and prevented proper comparison of jobs.
A considerably smaller number of more accurate
and appropriate titles are listed now.

409

Books Received

After the Whistle Blows, Jack Petrill. \Villiam-
Frederick Press, New York. $10.00.

Amazon Adventure, \Villard Price. John Day Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

America Square Dances, Dot Burgin. American
Squares, \Voodbury, New Jersey.

Amnican School and University, 1949-50 edition.
American School Publishing Corporation, New
York. $4.00.

Big Bag of Tricks for Boys and Girls. Hart Pub-
lishing Company, New York. $1.00.

Birds—A Golden Nature Guide. Simon and Schuster,
New York. $1.00.

Complete Book of Doll Making and Collecting, The,
Catherine Christopher. Greystone Press, New
York. $2.98.

Controlling Factors in Economic Development, Harold
G. Moulton. Brookings Institution, W’ashington,
D. C. $4.00.

Educators Guide to Free Films—Ninth Annual Edi-
tion, edited by Mary Foley Horkheimer and John
\V. DiEor. Educators Progress Service, Randolph,
\Visconsin. $5.00.

Flying Tackle, “'ilfred McCormick. G. P. Putnam’s
Sons, New York. $2.00.

Giant Playbook, Jeff E. Thompson and Annie Blaine.
Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.00.
Health and Fun, Charters, Smiley and Strang. The
Macmillan Company, New York. $.64. _
Human Relations in Public Administration, Alfred
DeGrazia. Public Administration Service, Chicago,

Illinois. $1.50.

Johnny King, Quarterback, Jackson Scholz. \Villiam

Morrow and Company, New York. $2.50.

 
   
   
 

  

iniark

Actirlieci-i’fd’s
PLAYF Ill

ff

South Fifth Street

 

 am... AyeeeeracEstrs

Famous because of their economy, and their rugged, long-lasting construction,
backed by 30 years’ manufacturing experience. That is why more and more
schools are turning to Weaver Wintark for trouble-free athletic equipment. For
years of economical service, specify all-weather, rubber-covered, fabric—lined, cord-

wound basketballs . . . footballs . . . volleyballs . . .
. water polo and play balls by Weaver Wintark!

WEAVER WINTARK SALES CO.
P.O.Box7l

Keene Party Book, The, Frances \V. Keene. Seahorse
Press and Farrarr, Straus and Company, New

York. $2.50.

Little Golden Books—When You Were a Baby, Rita
Eng; How Big, Corrine Malvern; Bobby and His

Airplanes, Helen Palmer; Little Galoshes, Kathryn
and Byron Jackson; The Night Before Christmas,
illustrated by Corinne Malvern. Simon and Schus-
ter, New York. $.25 each.

Make It and Ride It, C. J. Maginley. Harcourt Brace
and Company, New York. $2.00.

101 Ways to Improve Your Knitting, Barbara Abbey.
Studio Publications, New York. $1.65.

Piano Instruction in Schools, edited by \Villiam R.
Sur. Music Educators National Conference, 64

East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4, Illinois. $1.00.

Play with Plants, Millicent E. Selsam. \Villiam Mor-
row and Company, New York. $2.00.

Playtime Package, Ronny Lewis and MariOn Jollison.
Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.00.
Power Skiing, Tyler Micoleau. A. S. Barnes and Com-

pany, New York. $2.95.

Source Book of Play Party Games, The, M. Katherine
Price. Burgess Publishing Company, Minneapolis

15, Minnesota. $3.50.

Story of Franklin D. Roosevelt, The, Marcus Rosen-
blum. Simon and Schuster, New York. $1.50.

Supervision of Group Work and Recreation, Hedley
S. Dimock and Harleigh B. Trecker. Association
Press, New York. $4.50.

Trees—the 1949 Yearbook of Agriculture, the United
States Department of Agriculture. Superintend-
ent of Documents, \Vashington 25, D. C. $2.00.

Very Little Dog, The, Grace Skaar. \Villiam Scott
Publisher, New York.

Young Razzle, John R. Tunis. \Villiam Morrow and
Company, New York. $2.50.

Lil...

-—_._.—-="_-_-—--"""

  
   

soccer balls . . . softballs

Shomokin, Po.

 

 

A dramatization of book characters is one way in
which communities celebrate Children’s Book Week.

A Treasury of Hero Stories

By Joanna Strong and Tom B. Leonard. Hart
Publishing Company, New York. $2.00.

HERE BOYS AND GIRLS, from the ages of eight to

thirteen, can have the thrilling experience of
meeting for the first time such characters as Robin
Hood, Pocahontas, David Livingstone, Joan of
Arc, Daniel Boone, Booker T. Washington, Flor-
ence Nightingale and many others. The stories are
well-written in clear and simple language, and will
remain long in the memory of any child who has
the good fortune to read this book.

New Walt Disney’s

Bambi, Mother Goose, Adventures of Mr. Toad.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $1.00 each.

THE NEW EDITION of the story of Bambi, beloved

by youngsters and grown-ups alike, is in full
color. Twelve of the illustrations offer children
the delight of feeling Bambi’s soft fur. (Fuzzy
Golden Book.) In Mother Goose, favorite Disney
characters illustrate some of the best loved rhymes.
(Big Golden Book.) The Adventures of Mr.
Toad was adapted from Kenneth Graham’s “The
Wind in the \Villows” and presents some of Mr.

Toad’s most rollicking adventures. (Big Golden
Book.)

Two Little Trains

By Margaret Wise Brown. William R. Scott Pub-
lisher, New York. $1.50.

ADELIGHTFUL LITTLE book for the very young,
with amusing illustrations by Jean Charlot.

' NOVEMBER 1949

Children’s
Book Week

NOVEMBER 13 TO 19

The pictures fill most of the page and are accom-
panied by the sort of sing-song couplets which
appeal to children and which, in this case, tell the
adventures of two little trains going West.

The Team

By Frank O’Rourke. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.50.

FRANK O’ROURKE, experienced writer of base-

ball stories, trained with a big league team
(the Philadelphia Phillies) to get the material for
this one. Therefore he is well-qualified to take
young readers behind the scenes in the operation
of a major league team. The story starts with lay-
ing of plans for the coming season, and takes us
to Florida with the team for the opening of train-
ing ; and from that moment we live through their
games, and problems on and off the field. It will
give boys and girls much exciting inside informa—
tion about the workings of one of the most popular
big time sports.

Packaged 'Fun

THE HART PUBLISHING Company, New York,

has just put out three volumes of sheer fun for
different age youngsters, which retail for $I .00 each.
Playtime Package offers countless hours of play for
tiny folks—four to eight; Giant Playbook does the
same for those from seven to eleven; Big Bag of
Tricks offers no trick beyond a child’s level, but

contains astonishing stunts for all but the youngest
ones.

411

For Those “7110 Work with Children

Youth and Recreation

By E. O. Harbin. Abingdon-Cokesbury Press,
810 Broadway, Nashville, Tennessee. $.25.

MR. HARBIN HAS prepared a brief but compre-
hensive guide for church leaders interested in
'including effective youth recreation in their pro-
grams. This book is one of a series covering the
major areas of emphasis in the Methodist Youth
Fellowship program. However, it is of equal value
to all interested in the development of sound, crea-
tive recreation programs for youth. Specific pro-
gram suggestions are made in social recreation,
sports, arts and crafts, and the like, and sugges-
tions are given about the establishment and opera-
tion of youth centers, leadership, and recreation
for rural youth. One chapter is devoted to the sup-
port of community recreation programs.

How to Make a Play School Work

Play Schools Association, 119 \Vest 57 Street,
New York 19. $.40.

THIS BRIEF BUT inclusive guide is a very useful
tool, not only for those interested in play schools,
but for all recreation workers who handle younger
children. Its philosophy and program suggestions
are sound and helpful. The book was written by

members of the Play School staff.

Half a Century in Community Service

By Charles S. Bernheimer. Association Press,
New York. $2.50.

DR. BERNHEIMER was one of the pioneers in

Jewish social service and community activities.
His reminiscences of his fifty years of fruitful
stewardship, and his references to social trends and
developments, serve to remind us of the tremendous
change and progress made since the turn of the

412

century. Of particular interest is his interpretation
of the problems and techniques of the assimilation
into the American way of life of the many im-
migrant groups, particularly Jewish groups, com~
ing to the United States during the early years of
his active work.

Recreation for Millions

By R. K. McNickle. Editorial 'Research Reports,
1205 'Nineteenth Street, N. \V., Washington,
D. C. $1.00.

ASUMMARY 0F the reasons for recreation, public
'recreation facilities and services available at
all levels of government, and an estimate of private
and public expenditures for recreation, are pre-
sented in this report in a way that is, on the whole,
effective and inclusive. Special attention is given
at the close to the problem of segregation in the use
of public recreation facilities.

thcers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT Guam-r, Chairman of the Board of Directors

REV. PAUL MOORE, IL, First Vice-President

Mas. Oanx L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third VicePresident and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

Gusravus T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J.

Mas. Rom-:31- \Voons Buss, \Vashington, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, F la,
\VILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISOX, New York. N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.

MRS. Nonnax HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
Mas. CHARLES V. Hicxox, Michigan City, Ind.
Mrs. 10113 D. JAHI-LSON, Bellport, L. I., N. Y.
SUSAS )1. LEE, New York, N. Y.

0110 T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILL: REX, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN I... MILLS, \Voodbury, N. Y.
REV. PAUL MOORE, 12., Jersey City. N. J.
MRS. Sronoxn STERN, San Francisco, Calif.
Gluxr Trrswonru, Noroton, Conn.

I. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. \YARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

      

i
i

 

a

A partial list of program, party, crafts and decoration ideas from
the National Recreation Association. Full list available upon request.

Christmas Is Serious

Christmas Carnival in Carols and Pantomimes (MP
295) . . . . . . . . . “.1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $.l0

Christmas Carol Leaflets (per IOO) . . . . . . . . . . . .. .80

Christmas Customs and Legends Around the
World (MP 255)—Told in pantomime form.

Will serve as basic pattern for similar programs. .l0
Festival of Light—Narrator. pantomime. carols for

a community program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I0
Here We Go A-Caroling (MB |897)—Brief carol
program suggestions for reader and choir . . . . . . .05

Hints for Christmas in Church or School (MB
l899)—Stage settings. lights. processionals. pro-
gram suggestions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Joy to the World (MB |585)—A pageant for

church based on the story according to St.
Luke.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Seven Gifts. The (MP 369l—A Christmas panto-

mime by Stuart Walker. Simple directions for a
fantasy about the Christmas star . . . . . . . . . . . .. JD

Articles from RECREATION

Suggestions for Christmas programs and decorations
can be obtained from November and December back
issues of RECREATION magazine by consulting your
files or the local library. Many of these are now out
of print.

Recent Bibliographies

Christmas Masques. Festivals and.. Pageants with

Music (MP 406) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $.l0
Christmas Music (MP 2|6)—A listing of the best
collections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05

Christmas Plays for Juniors (MP 404l—An up-to-
date annotated list for children from primary
to high school age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .l0

Play for Christmas. A- (MP 405)—A new list of
secular and religious plays for various age

groups including adults . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .I0
New Year and Twelfth Night Parties
Beginning of the Year Games (MB I595) . . . . . . . . $.05

Crown Your Twelve Months Merrily (MP 265)—A
unique Twelfth Night Party to bring the season

to a close . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .IO
"Turn Over a New Leaf Party. A" (MP l7l)—-

Decorations and program . . . -. . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . .05
Watch Night Party (MP 346l—Games. stunts. re-

lays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

New York IO, N. Y.

WWW‘WWWzg‘K’mWw
ii
hi
if ' (1i i
n.
g 1H 111' a mm}; hrtmmaz
i
a
The Christmas Book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $.50
A beautiful booklet full of information about
Christmas customs and legends around the
world. parties. carols. decorations. gifts and
g other Christmas ideas and suggestions.
if Christmas Is Fun
- Christmas Handicraft Recipes (MB |900)-—Four
simple craft proiects for attractive gifts . . . . . .. $.05
Christmas Party. A (MB |420)—Games and gift
distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
$ Christmas Party Fun (MP 409l—Games and mixers .l0
‘3‘ Christmas Suggestions for Children (MB 798)—
Games. puzzles. favors and gifts . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Dickens' Christmas Spirit (MB |268)—An old fash-
ioned. Victorian Christmas party . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Games. Games. Games to Make Your Christmas
y Merry (MB l827)—Seven games to liven up
 your party . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
5: Ice-Breakers and Games for Christmas (MB I435) .05
l Mixers for Christmas Dances and Parties (MB
I425) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Polar Christmas Party. A—A party with an Arctic
theme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i . . . . .  . . .I0
St. George Play. The (MP 56)—A rollicking farce
over 300 years old . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .I0
Some Christmas Quiz Suggestions (MB I422)—
Four quizzes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Ways to Distribute Small Christmas Gifts (MB
|587)—For club parties. large celebrations.. . . .05
‘. Christmas Is Colorful
' Christmas Novelties for Everyone—How to make
ornaments. decorations and the like . . . . . . . . . .. $.l0
Cutting Christmas Greens (MB |264)—Going
after greens. making wreaths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
Gifts and Gadgets Made of Paper (MP 297)—
? Ideas for gifts and decorations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I5
Joyous Noel (MB |825)—Decorations made from
, inexpensive clay. tin cans. etc . . . . . . .l . . . . . . . .. .05
Make Your Christmas Colorful (MB I828)—Chem-
icals to use for adding color to the fireplace. .05
Suggestions for Novel Christmas Cards (MP 290)—
§ Illustrated. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .05
E Trimming the Tree for Santa (MB l955l~——-Sugges-
'1 tions for making cornucopias. angels. etc . . . . . . . .05
You Can Make Your Christmas Cards (MB 607)—
Fourteen ways suggested . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .05
315 Fourth Avenue
 " ‘ ‘

 

1W

3%
i
i
t
i
s
i
r

a?

q

2
i
g
i
i

d!

i
i
i

i

STEP BY STEP . . .

llll

m.- mo vou n amigo
"must" mm as can:th FE

J VS ’
’

::‘l‘! ’ ‘
~- O
'Q’ 0

~
7
it .._

gs

Jam Tc: 015-19314. game-GS
WW ha Mb. 6:740
can. mam-{Uta a» 3137

H

m THE PAYROLL SAVNGS ‘

mas...mm U5. SAWS
* BONDS!

After this, the pencil rendering is carefully inked in, as you see here.

that’s the way it’s done successfully!

N YOU CAN SEE, Chic Young, who
draws the pepular “Blondie” comic
strip, goes through many steps to arrive
at a  cartoon.

And, cartoonist Chic Young, together
with millions of other smart Americans,
“fill tell you that the step-by-step
method is the easiest, surest way of
doing anything worth while.

Particularly, saving money.

One of the easiest and surest ways to

 

set aside any worth while amount of
moneyis to buy United States Savings
Bonds the step-by-step method—

So set aside a regular amount week
after week, month after month, year
after year. Then in 10 short years you
will have a mighty nice nest egg tucked
away.

Get started now. Get your Bonds
through Payroll Savings or at your bank

or post office.

AUTOMAllC SAVING IS SURE SAVING—U. S. SAVINGS BONDS

 

, Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the
.7 Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

PLANAbOWEILéETMES
Fa? Evan/£3.29 IN JUST

 

