O

I

I

Henrv P15011161 Libra“-

DEGEDMBEREl‘I‘l’ggg

Ja Gk sonvi I i a.

DEC 20 ‘

 

Contents

 

December 1949

A Christmas Prayer, Howard Braucher. 413

Season’s Greetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 414
Ye Shepherd Plains of Bethlehem,

William Merriam Crane . . . . . . . . . . . 415
It’s Christmas Everywhere . . . . . . . . . . . 416
Human Problems Faced in Recreation

Centers, Dorothy Enderis . . . . . . . . . . 418
Magna Cum Laude . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 421
There’s More to Skiing,

Madeleine Hamilton . . . . . . . . . . . . . 422
The Game of Curling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 424

Plaid and Tasseled Tams,
Theodore R. Deppe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 425

A Starting the Ncw Year Right Party. . . 426

Housing Developments Stress Recreation 428

Recreation’s Public Relations,

James W. Gilman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429

Knives from Scrap, Irene Scott . . . . . . . 433

American Cities in Recreation—Part V,

Oakland, California . . . . . . . . . . . . . 434

Recreation—Its Meaning for Youth,

Harry D. Edgren . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439

Music and Drama in Program,

Nicoletta Uriuoli . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441

Local Boards in Park and Recreation
Programs—

Problems Old and New of Local
Board Members,

Mrs. Stuart LeRoy Anderson. . . . . 444

What Is the Place of Citizen Boards?

Harry S. Wender . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 445
A New Report and How to Use It,
Stephen H. 1\Iahoney . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Lebert H. Weir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449

In the Field—Lynn S. Rodney . . . . . . . . 453

Softball Rules for 1950 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 455

Crispin Oglehay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 457

Regular Features

\Vorld at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443

Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450

Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 451

Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 458

Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 459

Recreation Training Institutes. .
Inside Back Cover

PHOTO CREDITS: We are indebted for photographs to: .I. N.
Cooke, Vermont, page 422; National Park Service for view of
Yosemite National Park, page 423; Cliiord Norton, page 457.
The photographs of the 31st National Recreation Congress. in the
Norember issue of RECREATION, were taken by Arthur W. Tong
of New Orleans.

 
     
  
 
 
    

WAITING

It seems a little strange to me
f To have to wait beneath a tree.
00 a They know, I’m sure, I’ve come
“tr to play;
. I o o
9‘0 Why don’t they start their Christ-
mas Day?

Photograph by Ewing Galloway, New York.

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post Oliice in New York, New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of p05tage
provided for in Settion 1103, Ac: of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyrigb: 1949, by the National Recreation Auocistion, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FORTY-THREE, NUMBER NINE PRICE 35 CENTS

Recreation
DECEMBER 1 949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

 

Lord God of all,
for this Christmas day we thank thee,
for this day of joy,
for this day of giving,
for this day of living,
for this day when we think of the children.

Our hearts are warm within us.
We think first of those who are dear to us,
who are near to us.
For all we see we wish a happy Christmas day.

For all throughout the world whom we do not see
‘ we desire-
M such joy as belongs to happy children,

such joy as belongs to men who are brothers,

such happiness as comes to those who are" ready
to share what is dearest to them.

Lord God of all,
if we could, we would will
that all days be as Christmas days—
without hate; without fear;
days of deep good will for all;
days of courage;
days of desire for justice;
days of a peace that passeth all understanding;
days of a peace that is outgoing, vital, dynamic;
days of peace that mean rightness upon the earth.

Howard Braucher’s last Christmas card,
reprinted by request.

DECEMBER 1949 413

THE NATIVITY
LORENZO Lorro

Courtesy of
National Gallery of Art
Washington, D. C.

(Kress Collection)

414

 

greet-(V155 of the {geason to 

FROM THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

RECREATION

% (surges mm, of guwm

DECEMBER 1949

Ye shepherd plains of Bethlehem,
That rest in silence long,

Break forth your Christmas echoes, till
Men hear the angels’ song.

Ye shadowed homes in lands oppressed
By centuries of wrong,

Let heavenly gladness enter in

For, hark, the angels’ song.

All ye who hear from far and near,
The Christmas joy prolong;
Learn in the fullness of your hearts
To sing the angels’ song. ‘

Ye wider plains of neighbor lands,
Ye hills and mountains strong,
Take up the sound and everywhere
Repeat the angels’ song.

Ye busy towns and cities vast,

With all your hurried throng,

Calm now your noise and tumult, while
Ye learn the angels’ song.

Carol by

WILLIAM MERRIAM CRANE

415

IT’S CHRISTMAS

0UTSIDE, THE SNOW lies deep and white under
the evergreens—inside, the brightly-lighted Christ-
mas tree and a blazing fire add an atmosphere of
warmth to the gaiety of the gift-giving . . .

In tropic lands, a soft, warm breeze comes
through a window, playing on the dancing couples
and merry-makers, dressed in light, summery
clothes . . .

It’s Christmas—everywhere. In America and
Europe it may be a white holiday, while in South
America it’s a green one, coming in the midst of
summer weather. But all over the world there’s a
common bond of joy and understanding which
bridges different climates and customs during this
universal celebration of the birth of Christ.

In this country Christmas is an international
holiday, for so many traditional parts of our
celebration have come from other lands. \Ve are
indebted to England for greeting cards, plum
pudding, mince pie—and the famous Dickens’
tale of Scrooge and Tiny Tim. Germany has con-
tributed the Christmas tree and Santa Claus, while
carols have come down through the ages from the
Holy Land. Evergreens are of pagan origin, and
most of our Christmas greensn-such as holly, ivy
and laurel-—-were first brought to this country by
the women on the Mayflower. In our concern,
today, for international understanding as a basis
of building toward an enduring peace, it might
be well for us to take some cognizance of these
facts in our Christmas parties and programs.

The Christmas crib, or creche, was originated
in Italy in 1223 by St. Francis of Assissi. Stock-
ings “hung by the chimney with care” are a cus-
tom handed down from the Norsemen, who be-
lieved that the Goddess Hertha appeared in the
fireplaces of their great halls, bringing them hap-
piness and good fortune. Influenced by the story
of Joseph and Mary, the Irish started putting
lights in their windows, symbolizing a hospitable
welcome to wanderers.

Christmas fireworks, first introduced in Loui-
siana by French settlers, spread to other southern

416

 

EVERYWHERE

|
.

states where they are still popular. Yule logs were
surrounded with superstition by the Druids, who
believed that if the log fire burned all night, the
family would have good luck during the coming
year. The use of mistletoe, known as a pledge
of peace and friendship, also descended from the
Druids, who considered this plant sacred. (The
custom of kissing under the mistletoe derives from
a Scandinavian myth, however.) Only the turkey
seems to be a truly American addition to our
Christmas celebration!

One of the most popular symbols of Christmas
in many countries is the tree-—evergreen or fir or
any other variety—laden with gaily-colored balls,
tinsel and icicles, or adorned with popcorn and
cranberry chains and candles. The tree is not a
universal symbol of the season, however. In Mex-
ico, for instance, the pinata: are the symbol of
the celebration, which begins nine days before
Christmas Day. Every night a religious proces-
sion is followed'by a party, with dancing and re-
freshments, climaxed by the breaking of the pinata.
This earthenware jug, covered with papier-mache
figures, is mled with toys, nuts and sweets, and
hung from the ceiling. Amidst much hilarity, it
is broken with a stick by one of the guests who is
blindfolded, and then there is a scramble for the
falling prizes.

A Litany, an arrangement of the manger scene,
the midnight “Mass. of the Cock” and the banquet
following, all are important parts of the Mexican
holiday—known as the posadas—but gift—giving
is not. However, on January sixth, the day of
the \rVise Men, children put their shoes on the
balconies for the \Vise Men to fill with toys.

In Brazil, two of the most deep-rooted tradi-
tions are the creche and the midnight Mass. Early
in December, households begin setting up their
creches, which may be simple or very elaborate—
sometimes even taking up a whole room. Families
spend the day of Christmas Eve together, then go
to the midnight Mass and return home to a sump-
tubus supper of many delicacies, including turkey,

RECREATION

roast pig, fried shrimp and an assortment of ex-
citing-looking fancy desserts.

Christmas Eve in Columbia is marked by an
unusual custom, giving it a Mardi Gras air. At
about nine o’clock in the evening, laughing groups
of people, in masquerade costumes and masks, ap-
pear on the streets. Everyone tries to recognize a
friend, and the one who does so first wins a gift
from the one recognized. Masqueraders leave the
streets as midnight nears, making way for the
celebration of midnight Mass, followed by feast-
ing and fun among the adults until early morning.
Fireworks also are a part of the holiday tradition
in Central and South America.

The giver of gifts, “Santa Claus” to us, is
known by many names in different lands, and in
Russia is a grandmother—“Good Star”—dressed
in a white robe and veil. Father Star, who accom-
panies her, scolds the bad children and praises
the good. In Italy, too, gifts are given by a wom-
an—Befana, who is old and witch-like, dressed in
black robes and carrying a broom. Italian chil-
dren also receive their gifts on January sixth,
which is the Epiphany, commemorating the visit
of the three Magi to the manger.

According to ancient tradition in Holland, St.
Nicholas makes his rounds upon Wodan’s horse,
Sleipner, whose hoofs Dutch children are sup-
posed to hear on Christmas Eve. Boys and girls
leave their wooden shoes on the hearth for St.
Nick to fill, sometimes putting hay or carrots in
them for the white horse. The Hungarian’s St.
Nicholas is dressed in bishop’s robes, followed by
a devil who tries to keep him from presenting the
gifts by relating bad things about the people.
Czechs and Slovaks receive their bounty from St.
Mikulas, who descends from heaven on a golden
rope.

The Danes put a bowl of their grod in the attic
for Jules-nissen, the queer little dwarf with a gray
suit and a nightcap, who brings their gifts. In
Germany, Santa Claus has given way to the
Christkind, or Kriss Kringle, who is generally
represented by a child dressed in white robes with
a golden crown and golden wings. Pere Noel—
Father Christmas—leaves French children their
gifts in wooden shoes on Christmas Day, but the
general exchange of presents is on New Year’s
Day, which is a great family day and the equiva-
lent of our Christmas celebration.

St. Nicholas makes his visits December sixth
in Switzerland. In many parts of this country he
has been succeeded by the Christ Child, who
travels over the land every Christmas Eve in a
sleigh drawn by six reindeer, heavily laden with

DECEMBER 1949

trees, fruit, toys and cookies. Sweden’s gift—giver
is St. Lucia, a medieval saint famous for her gen-
erosity to the poor.

In Poland and Spain it is the Wise Men who
bring the presents. According to a Spanish folk
tale, as the Wise Men go to Bethlehem each year
to pay homage to the Christ Child, they pass
through Spain and leave gifts of candy and play-
things for the children. In Syria, Santa Claus is
the youngest camel of the Wise Men. Legend has
it that this camel fell exhausted at the end of the
long journey to Bethlehem, and the Christ Child
blessed it with immortality.

Japan’s Santa—known as Hoteiosho—is a kind
old man with a‘ huge pack on his back. Children
believe he has 'eyes in the back of his head, so they
try to be good when he’s around! Lan Khoong-
Khoong is China’s Santa— meaning nice old
father. The Chinese tree is the Tree of Light, and
is decorated .with paper flowers, colored paper
chains and cotton snowflakes. Paper chains and
evergreens adorn Chinese churches and homes
during their I-Ioly Birth Festival.

An English Christmas is very similar to ours,
with the exchange of presents and the caroling as
outstanding features. Boxing Day, December
twenty-sixth, is observed on almost as big a scale
as Christmas Day. Originally, this was the time
when the village priest opened the poor box and
distributed money. Christmas Mummers still pre-
sent the St. George drama, and other plays that
have been given for several hundred years, in
such places as Stratford-on-Avon, Gloucestershire
and Hampshire. A popular rural custom is the
ceremony of the farmer and his friends drinking
a toast of cider to their favorite apple tree, and
the burning of the Yule log is still carried on in
some country homes.

In a Finnish home the fir tree is set up on
Christmas eve, decorated with apples and other
fruits, candies, paper flags, cotton, tinsel and can-
dles. Festivities are started with a visit to the
Finnish steambath, followed by the Christmas din-
ner. Santa Claus distributes presents at this time.
Church services start very early on Christmas
Day, which is spent quietly visiting among the
family.

Through the ages these traditional Observances
of Christmas have been handed down from one
generation to another. Let us hope that the spirit
of Christmas, of peace on earth, joy, brotherli-
ness, will be passed on to future generations so
that the significance of Christ’s birth will never
be lost to man, and peace may once more be
restored to this troubled world.

417

 

Dorothy Enderis chats about recreation
experiences in Milwaukee at an eve-
ning session of the New Orleans Congress.

ILWAUKEE HAS A German background. There
M was a time when sixty-five percent of Mil-
waukee people were of German extraction, and a
very fine type of citizen they were and are. We
are slow, but we are thorough. It takes us a long
time to get somewhere, but when we are there we
know where we are, why we are there, and we
stick.

In 1911 Milwaukee began to come to the con-
clusion that it should concern itself about the lei-
sure time of its communities and, showing usual
thoroughness, said, “Well, let’s go at this in a
systematic way, so that we will know what we
are after, and why we are after it.” It did the
sensible thing that any community would do today
——it appealed to the National Recreation Asso-
ciation for help in the way of a survey.

The NRA sent Rowland Haynes, and Mr.
Haynes and his wife spent three months making
a study of what Milwaukee was doing with its
leisure time; but they didn’t stop there. They
made a study of what Milwaukee could do with
its leisure time and, when that survey was pub-
lished, we were anything but proud of ourselves.
While this was going on, the superintendent of
schools and social workers were writing a law
and putting it through our state legislature so
that, should Milwaukee awaken to the importance

Miss Dorothy Euderis, recently retired, is Director
Emeritus of the Department of Municipal Recreation
and Adult Education in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

418

of recreation, it might have access to Enancial re-
sources to carry on a program.

There are two things to which I attribute our
sound start in recreation. It is very, very impor-
tant, whenever one begins a movement, to begin
with a sound basis, a sound philosophy. It was
the work of Mr. Haynes to get us started right;
and he kept coming to our city several times a
year to see what we were doing and how we were
doing it. Then the second one is that the law, to
which I just referred,-'had been passed. That law
was really epoch-making, and the people who
were doing recreation work throughout the coun-
try sat up and took notice.

It said: let the people vote on whether or not
their community wants to have recreation; let the

H UMAN PROBLEMS

people vote on whether or not they want to tax
themselves. If they vote yes, then the school board
can ask the common council to levy a special tax,
that money to be turned over to the Board of
School Directors to be used exclusively for rec-
reation activities for young and old.

That was the basic thought, that recreation was
education and should have the same quality of

guidance as the academic life of a community. It
gave our Board of School Directors a dual respon-
sibility—they were the board of education, and
they also became the board of recreation.

In the thirty-seven long years that Milwaukee
tolerated me—from 1920 on, at least, when I
headed the department—I was an assistant super-
intendent of schools, but I had nothing whatever
to do with the day school. Our department was
responsible for the after-school hours and the
after-school years of the community. According
to the law, if any other board or commission had
facilities, the school board might cooperate—the
school board providing the supervision and the
said board giving the facilities.

Now this law quickly, and through its own
wording, dispelled two rather fallacious ideas
which were prevalent in those days and which, in
many communities, still are so—namely, that rec-
reation is something that concerns only youth. We
took the stand right from the beginning that recre-
ation is something that concerns an individual
from birth through old age. The law said very
definitely “activities for young and old.”

RECREATION

Also, in those days, and even today, some peo-
ple have a notion that recreation consists only of
sports, games, outdoor exercise. However, the
law enumerated such things as music, drama, lit-
erature, and so on, immediately laying down the
policy that a well—rounded recreation department
should concern itself with a great variety of ac-
t1v1ties.

Then the school board took $25,000, I think,
out of its continuation fund and four of us out of
our teaching positions in the system and said,
“We are going to put this to a vote, a vote of the
people.” Very few people knew what recreation

was, at that time, and we four who were selected ,

to start it knew less than anybody else. So we
began to try to educate the public on the matter

had not only ignorance, apathy and indifference,
but a narrow viewpoint to light. Thank goodness
that didn’t last very long.

After we had been in operation for about two
years, the board received petitions from two of
the finest residential districts in Milwaukee asking
for social centers in their schoolhouses and say-
ing, “Our girls and boys have leisure time; we
want them to have the opportunity to spend it,
and we adults want some of these advantages.”
They were beginning to realize that the things
we were doing in the social centers were not just
crime prevention—they were matters of life en-
richment; and anything that is a matter of life
enrichment for the individual citizen leads to the
cultural and civic growth of the community.

FA CED IN RECREA TION CENTERS

of municipal recreation. Oh, what a lack of under-
standing we found!

At that time we had a Socialist Government in
Milwaukee, and a friend told me what she had
overheard two men talking about in the streetcar.
One had said to the other, “Say, are you going to
vote for the ‘Socialist’ centers?” And the other
replied, “I should say not. That is just one of
those blankety-blank notions of those Socialists in
the City Hall.”

In Milwaukee we had to educate people. It
wasn’t only a lack of education, but a lack of sym-
pathy with the movement and, therefore, a lack
of desire to support it.

One of the four men who organized the depart-
ment was Mr. Kottnauer, whom many of you old-
timers remember. The neighbors couldn’t under-
stand Mr. Kottnauer’s being there all day long
playing with the children. They would gather at
night on the sidewalk to watch. Finally, one of
them asked him, “Do you get paid for this job?”
Mr. Kottnauer said, “Paid? Paid? No, I pay
them for letting me play here.” That was the end
of that sidewalk supervision.

Some people were so worked up about the taxes
that they just couldn’t see the movement at all.
Some of those who did see it saw it more or less
from a sentimental viewpoint, “Oh, yes, play-
grounds are line for the children. Boys must have
them, especially the bad boys.” And of our social
centers, “Oh, yes, they are very good for the for-
eign element, line for the underprivileged.” We

DECEMBER 1949

One of the last speeches made by our late su-
perintendent of schools, Mr. Goodrich, was about
the work of the recreation department of his board.
He said, “I appreciate very, very deeply what so-
cial centers and playgrounds have done for you
and your children, but I appreciate far more
deeply what the social centers and playgrounds
have taught you to do for yourselves.”

Being part of an educational system made 'it
possible for us to get into the schoolhouses, and we
soon began to be known as “The City of Lighted
Schoolhouses.” How I h0pe that the lights of all
of you to get into the schoolhouses will soon be
over. We got in because we were all one family,
but don’t for a minute think that sledding was
easy. I am ashamed to say that some of the big-
gest obstacles we had in the early days came from
the school folks themselves, teachers and princi-
pals; and I needn’t tell you that the janitors owned
the school buildings. But that is all changed. Our
principals now beg us for recreation work in their
schools.

The holy-of—holies of the school system, at least
in Milwaukee, was the high school. We recreation
workers almost took our hats off when we passed
one. Nothing was more gratifying to me than,
about three years ago, to have on my desk peti-
tions from four high school principals asking for
recreation activities in their schools. They have
come to see the value of it. And the janitors!
Why, when I go into a social center, it is difficult
for me to know, from the enthusiasm, who is the

419

 

The Knights of the Round Table star in a successful
drama program in one of Milwaukee’s public schools.

director and who is the janitor.

My pet story is about our janitor in the Fifth
Street Social Center. When table tennis began to
be popular we started working to put tennis tables
in our budget. Our staff got together and went
through every building to see where we could
store our tables in the daytime and accordingly
equip the center for table tennis. We got every
center equipped but one, and we couldn’t possibly
see where we could store the tables so we just
didn’t order any. A few weeks after, when table
tennis was going like a house afire, the janitor of
that school came to me quite incensed.’ He said,
“How come the Fifth Street Center doesn’t have
table tennis?”

I said, “You know, it nearly broke our hearts
not to be able to put it in, but where in the
world would you keep your tables?”

He replied, “I got it all leCd up. If you will
build a little latticed wall or compartment, I will
show you where to store them.”

“But that means you will have to carry those
three tables up a flight of steps.”

And he answered, “What about it? You leave
that to me. Give us table tennis.”

Nothing sells itself like a good program! It is
not difhcult to get into school buildings anymore.
People are beginning to see that thirty-five and a
half hours use, forty weeks a year, is poor busi-
ness. Now, the trick is not to get in, but to stay
in. You can’t stay in if you don’t use good judg-
ment. This development of the popularity and
tolerance of recreation and of the use of the school-
houses wasn’t hit” or miss. It meant good judg-
ment in the type of activity we put on, constant
education and speaking to clubs, constant public
relations. But, I say again, the best thing was a
sound, sensible program.

420

We didn’t fall into a social center with every-
thing we wanted right at the beginning. It was
years, for instance, before we had the nerve to
put boxing on our program! It was years before
we had the nerve to play cards in the school-
houses, and how we worked so that the agitation
finally came from the citizens themselves, rather
than from our own office!

Do you know that story in the Bible of old
Simeon of the temple? They brought the Christ
Child into the templé and, an old servant, seeing
the Christ Child, realized that He was the Saviour.
He said, “Now may Thy servant depart in peace,
for mine eyes have seen the glory of the Lord.”

Very often, when I would walk home from a
board meeting at which they had decided to buy
something or to inaugurate a certain policy, some-
thing that we had planned for, hoped for, wished
for until it had finally become a realization, I
would think with gratitude, “Now may thy ser-
vant depart in peace.” But, notice, I never de-
parted.

One of the developments of the recreation
movement in general, that has filled my profes-
sional heart with great joy and thanksgiving, is
the way in which colleges and universities are now
putting recreation into their curricula and offering
a degree in it as a profession. You who have been
in recreation longer know the dearth of recrea-
tion workers.

When we first knew that we were going to have
some playgrounds in Milwaukee, we didn’t know
where to turn for workers. People didn’t know
what games to play; the physical education in our
public schools was “one-two stuff” and nothing
else. So we organized a Saturday morning play
course with the idea of getting about nineteen
teachers to take it in preparation for the summer.
Instead of nineteen, fifty-seven registered.

People began to know that there were jobs Open
in the social centers and they came to apply.
Naturally we would ask them what made them
interested in the work.

One young chap came to me and said, “I am
just getting over a serious operation, and my doc-
tor says I ought to get out in the air and in the
sunshine, so I would like a playground job this
summer.” .

Such incidents were repeated over and over
again. My choice story is about a butcher who
wanted to be a social center director. He came to
see us about an opening and said, “I have been
in business in this neighborhood seventeen years.
I know all the people and they all know me, and
.they have been my steady customers. That shows

RECREATION

that I have been treating them right, and you bet
I understand people. Then, you know, I am get—
ting kind of tired of this butcher business, and this
going in and out of iceboxes; it’s giving me rheu-
matism. So I said to my woman, ‘I’m going to
try to get that social center director’s job. I know
I can do it.’ ” Well, that is the type of worker who
came to us. Now we can employ professional
workers. However, that still isn’t going to solve
our problem one hundred percent.

You all have had people come into your ofhce
to apply for a job, pulling the whole alphabet
behind them in the form of degrees; but, when it
came to the thing that we need most—personality,
they just didn’t have it. We must realize that
while a degree and training are important, there
is something far, far more important.

Sometimes we ask a recreation worker, “What
are you doing?” He will say, “Oh, I have a swell
job. I am director of a social center, a community
house, swell building, three stories, and we have
708 people registered on our list. It’s a swell
place.”

That is good, but wouldn’t it be better if that
man, instead of thinking of his job in terms of
a three-story building with such and such an en—
rollment and attendance, would think and say, “I
am responsible for the growth and happiness of
708 people”? That is the attitude we must take
if we are going to have successful playgrounds and
successful social centers.

It is true that we must concern ourselves with
what the boy does with the basketball, what the
man who comes to join the orchestra does with the
fiddle, what the woman does with the piece of
cloth she brings to the sewing class, because we
want to give them skills, we want them to learn
something. We must be far more concerned, how-

ever, with what the ball does to the boy and what
the fiddle does to the man and what that four

' yards of cloth and the membership in the dress—

making class are doing to that mother.

There is a German word that I have never been
able to put into English. It is the word leutselig.
Leut is the German word for people, and selig is
holy and, to me, the finest attribute with which
you could credit a recreation worker is to say that
he is leutselig, meaning that people are holy to
him.

I think it was Whitman who was walking down
the street with a friend when the friend pointed
to another man on the street and said to Whitman,
"‘Don’t you hate that man?” And Whitman re-
plied, “Hate him? How can I hate him? I know
him!”

And so, getting to know people, getting to un-
derstand them, to respect them and appreciate
them is where we, in our recreation activities,
have a greater responsibility than any profession
I know of—and I place it second to none—to Spin
that fiber from which that great world, about
which we are all dreaming and talking, is woven.

I claim it is basically true, because nations are
made of people, that helping people to know one
another and to understand one another—not to
tolerate, but to respect one another——is one of the
greatest privileges that we have as recreation
workers.

Yes, we have a job and a big one. We have
worked at it so well that it has grown to be a
recognized profession. But that isn’t enough. We
must. ply that profession with consecration and
devotion and, if we do that, we have more than a
job, more than a profession. Then we have a
mission, and may God help us to consecrate our-
selves to it!

Magna’ Cum Laude

RECREATION magazine has been awarded honor-
able mention in the Book of Appraisals,
“Magazines for School Libraries.” One of the
ninety-seven publications meriting this honor——
out of some 5,917 competitors—the magazine of
the recreation movement was selected because it is
a “thoroughly alive and stimulating guide to
wholesome democratic play.” Under the classifi—
cation, “RECREATION—(Social Problems, includ-
ing Minority Groups),” Laura K. Martin, author
of the book, also makes the following observations:

DECEMBER 1949

“Characterized by a uniform distinction in appear-
ance . . .‘Community fun is depicted in the square
dance for the oldsters and plans .for Halloween
and Thanksgiving, community style. Such arti-
cles as ‘Recreation for the Blind’ are appealingly
illustrated. The reader is taken abroad to see the i
activities of other lands. Students reported their
generous use of this magazine in the author’s study
of homemaking materials, and .it is also useful in
showing students the vocational possibilities in an
important new field.”

421

Madeleine Hamilton

00 MANY AMERICANS shy away from skiing

because of embarrassment, consciousness of
age or the fear of breaking a bone. Seeing only
wild downhill skiing and jumping, as they mostly
do, they are right. Skiing in this country has be-
come almost synonomous with break-neck speed
and acrobatics. It is as if we confined the sport
of horseback riding to racing and ruled that every—
one who took up riding must become a jockey.

Actually, skiing is one of the most pliable and
versatile of sports, adapting itself to any age, any
terrain. In Scandinavia some of the brisk old
wizards you meet skiing in the mountains are over
eighty years old.

Here in America, where skiing and ski resorts
are becoming commercialized, where skiers wait
in line for hours at ski tows for the thrill of one
swoop downhill, much of the real joy of skiing
is lost. I was born in Scandinavia, was almost
brought up on skis. Now that I live in the United

Madeleine Hamilton, born and mixed on a farm in
Jontbern Sweden, bar .néied extenrively in tbi: coun-
try, Canada, France, Germany, Scandinavia; bar writ-
ten article: on skiing for American magazines.

   
 

There’s More t

States, I miss the type of skiing I used to know—
the family expeditions, the cross—country tours,
the non-commercial mountain lodges. Skiing in
Scandinavia is an integral part of the cultural
background of the people, filled with the vitality
of a sacred heritage. Each generation adds to its
strength. As the Scandinavian youngster learns
to ski, he also builds his character.

It starts when you are about three years old,
when you get your first pair of skis. They are
the big adventure. You hug them—first with your
eyes, then with your arms. Slowly and gently you
slide your small hands over their surface. Your
first pair is not fancy no bindings; just a strap
of leather for the toes. No poles either; they
would be crutches at this stage.

In the beginning you get a hand from your
father. But the slow task of gaining control is
yours. You have to struggle with snow, skis and
your own wobbly legs. When your father thinks
you are ready, the big day comes—you are allowed
to accompany your parents on their Sunday ski
trip. It is a proud day; you are to see the world
which lies beyond—the world of deep forests, of
pine trees drooping with snow, of mountains filled

 

Young folks learning the art in Brattleboro, Vermont

I
f

 

-:   -...‘. 0- - 3-W-  ".-:~;...:"-..a..-.-~t:...; . “ (aw 
‘ ' at?“ 5“? ““‘-¢  W... {a <-‘-’;..:;.:.?-;...... 3" “356'fo 

Few countries have as magnificent a variety of mountains as ours.

with unexplored mystery; a world of enchantment.

In Scandinavia, skiing and the family are closely
linked. The family outings I remember had a
ritualistic quality which stimulated the imagina-
tion. Sunday was Father’s day with the family
and he made the most of it.

In the early morning we gathered around the
big breakfast table. Here was steaming hot oat-
meal, milk, ham and eggs, home-fried potatoes,
stacks of crisp brown Swedish bread, fat golden
Norwegian goat’s cheese, applesauce, jam, coffee
and chocolate. Then we made our lunch sand-
wiches, wrapped them in wax paper and put
them in our rucksacks. Father carried candy bars,
thermos bottles of hot coffee and chocolate, a first-
aid kit, a compass and maps. Each Sunday a dif-
ferent trip was planned, and plans were kept most
secret.

Father and Uncle took turns in breaking trail,
followed by Mother and our aunt; then came the
caravan of youngsters, the smallest ones bring-
ing up the rear. The sun was bright and the snow
smooth. It was fun gliding along the trail, and
it was fun when Father stopped to identify the
different animal tracks, the birds and trees. He
teased Mother when she fell on some easy slope,
encouraged the littlest ones and showed us new
techniques. At lunch time we learned to make a
chair of our skis and poles and to balance on it
while eating our sandwiches and drinking the
hot chocolate.

Cousin Gunnar and I often had trouble on the
way home. Big lumps of snow stuck to the bot-
tom of our skis. We had been too lazy to do our
waxing that morning, deciding it was not impor-
tant! No word of sympathy from Father; this
was our problem and we had to cope with it.

At home we brushed the snow off our skis and
put them in their place. We hung our wet cloth-

DECEMBER 1949

ing in the kitchen to dry. \Ne stuffed our boots
with newspaper and set them far enough from the
fire so that they wouldn’t curl up. Next, every-
body had a hot bath sprinkled with pine oil, which
spread its fragrance through the house. Then we
all went to bed, and slept for an hour before din-
ner. All Scandinavian skiers know the importance
of this hour of complete relaxation after a day’s
skiing.

At school ski training is continued. At Eastere
time thousands and thousands of school children
from all over Scandinavia go with their teachers
to the mountains. They stay for a week and live
either on trains or in farmhouses. As touring is
the aim of all Scandinavian skiers, cross-country
skiing is the foundation upon which we build. No
one is considered a good skier who has not mas-
tered its! technique. Then, and only then, you may
dream of speed and records. It is only recently
that a few tow-ropes have been installed in Scan-
dinavia. Climbing is still a must. It warms up
the muscles and makes you feel that you have
earnedathe fun of each downhill run.

Having finished school you are ready for real
touring. Both the Norwegian and Swedish Soci-
eties for the Furthering of Skiing, as well as the
tourist clubs, have constructed a network of ,small
huts across the mountains, making possible an
almost endless variety of tours. The huts are neat
and clean and stocked with blankets, wood and
cooking utensils. The bunks are hard but roomy,
the stove is good, and if there is no well you melt
snow for water. You bring your own food, and
it is an unwritten law that you leave the hut' with
the same supplies and in the same neat condition
as you found it. These huts are the joy of the
Scandinavian people and the greatest safeguard
for her wilderness, as they make it accessible with-
out disturbing it.

423

The ski season in Scandinavia lasts from De—
cember till the beginning of June; the big holi-
days, however, are Christmas and Easter, when
practically everyone who can stand on two legs
puts on a pair of skis and goes to the mountains.

\V e in America can benefit from what the
Scandinavians have learned and developed through
more than a thousand years of skiing. No one
needs the peace and healing power of the silent
mountains more than we. To counteract the dis—
astrous effects of our mechanical existence is es-
sential. There must be places where we can go
and be quiet, free from all chaotic contraptions
and psychological pressures. Nothing can com-
pare with cross-country skiing across the flow-
ing contours of the soft winter landscape to restore
balance and repose. There are no sharp angles;
every line, every shape and form reveal the eter—
nal, interlacing pattern of ever-recurring life. As
we laugh and fall, our faces buried in the soft
snow, the hardness within us begins to melt. \Ve
meet each other simply and naturally again.

Here in the stillness, close to the sky and the
stars, there are no obstructions between us and
the Cosmos. As the skier rests quietly on his
poles and listens, the meaning of his life becomes
apparent. As he becomes part of this incredible
space around him, the very silence is no more.
The air, the sky, the very peaks vibrate with the
music of the spheres. Pilots whom I know have
heard it on lonely flights. Skiers, too, can hear
it on solitary peaks.

Few countries have such a magnificent variety
of mountains as America. To a skier they are
pure paradise. \Ve must not let the ideals of the

The Game of Curling

HE SOC-YEAR-OLD game of curling is played on

ice but, oddly enough, players wear rubbers or
rubber-soled shoes instead of ice skates. Their
hat or hockey stick is a broom; their baseball, foot-
ball or puck, a stone weighing forty—four pounds.
Competitors consist of two “skips” who flip a
coin for first or second play. Each skip is assisted
by three helpers—his first assistant, the vice—skip;
the second, his number two man; and the third,
his lead. '

All curling clubs follow the standard rules of
the game set up by the Ontario Curling Associa-
tion in Canada and in the United States, and
those set up by the Mid—\Vest Curling Associa—
tion. The rules of the game have generally estab-
lished standard rinks which are forty-two yards

424

sport deteriorate, nor their natural beauty be
cheapened. Each generation is only the custodian
of that which has been given to it. It is our atti—
tude today that will decide what kind of mountains
we are going to have tomorrow.

The cheapening process is already under way.
Jukeboxes, slot machines, bars and such parapher-
nalia are moving to the mountains. \Vhere we
should go to find peace and refreshing solitude,
we are now met with the same screaming, elbow-
ing existence we left behind. On almost every
slope a network of 'drab eating and sleeping places
has sprung up, lacking in charm, freshness and
the human touch, depressing in standardization.
People lounge about the eating counters and ski
lifts wearing the same expressions you see in the
waiting rooms at Grand Central. Youngsters ride
up the lift and come down the trail as if it were a
roller coaster. If we don’t watch out, our moun-
tains will become miniature Coney Islands.

Skiing can be a tremendous creative force—if
we let it. Families and communities could come
together to clear trails, build and maintain a ski
lodge, ski together in the evenings and on week-
ends. As parents begin to ski with their children,
a common bond is established—the thrill of ski-
ing and the joyous sharing of the wonders of the
countryside. Amid the silence and majesty of end-
less vistas of snow and sky they find, together,
the deeper layers of their beings; they really be-
gin to live.

As we realize this, we shall begin to under-
stand what the Scandinavians have learned—the
simple truth that man and man, and man and
nature, belong together.

from the foot line to the tee. The tees, thirty—eight
yards apart, are the centers for circles seven—feet
in radius, inside of which smaller circles are also
drawn. All stones must cross a “hog” line or
cannot be counted.

The players (or rinks) rotate-that is, imme—
diately after the first player has “cast his two
stones,” he is followed by his competitor who
“casts his two stones.” Each player uses his broom
to direct the “curl” of the stone and to increase
its speed, and scores one shot for every stone
which is nearer the tee than any other stone of the
opposing rink. Disputed shots are determined by
vice-skips but, if they disagree, they are deter-
mined by an umpire or by a neutral curler. (See
‘Plaz'd and Tasseled Toms, next page.)

RECREATION

Plaid and Tasseled Tams

VERY SPORT HAS its hero. Ben Hogan means
E golf; Joe DiMaggio means baseball; Frankie
Parker means tennis; George Mikin means bas—
ketball. No matter in what part of the country
those names and names like them are mentioned,
children and adults alike are able to link the hero
to the sport and to explain the intricacies of each
of the games they represent.

Only a handful of people scattered through the
nation can link Bob Magie, Babe Maturi, Frank
Kleffman or Harold Lauber to their sport. Yet,
in the northern reaches of the nation along the
shores of the Great Lakes, these names are bright
spots in conversation which may become heated
with enthusiasm when they are mentioned.

They are linked with a fast growing amateur
winter sport in which the word “rink” means
four men, a “sheet” means a stretch of pebbled
ice, and the word “rock” is uttered with hushed
respect. In the northern section of the nation’s
midwest, these strange utterances mean only one
thing—~—curling.

This ice-coated sport is several hundred years
old, yet its American popularity is in its infancy.
One of the biggest factors in the spread of this
Scottish-born sport is the bonspiels, held through—
out the country each year. The largest and oldest
of these is the Northwest Bonspiel, held for the
last sixteen years at the Superior, Wisconsin,
Curling Club.

Each year, when the cold of the Wisconsin win-
ter has made the ice just right, sixteen “sheets”
are laid down in the municipally owned skating
arena and curling club. Then “rinks” from Can-
ada, Minnesota, upper Michigan and Wisconsin
don their brightly-colored jackets, hoist their
plaid and tasseled tams to their heads, and travel
to Superior.

For three days the bonspiel continues, until

Mr. Deppe i: director of recreation in Superior.

DECEMBER 1949

Theodore R. Deppe

 

there are only sixteen “rinks” left to sweep their
way to the prizes. Just before the big day, when
the year’s champions are crowned, the curlers sit
down to a huge dinner served them in the club’s
spacious rooms.

When the early March thaws start to soften the
pebbled ice in the big enclosed arena, boasted to
be one of the largest such structures in the world,
the champions and the losers alike can be found
swishing their “stanes” through the “slow” ice in
preparation for the next year’s all important curl-
ing season.

The Superior Curling Club is an autonomous
organization made up of the curling enthusiasts in
the city. The club sets up its own regulations and
the schedules for curling. However, the city’s
recreation and park departments are entrusted
with the maintenance and upkeep of the huge curl—
ing club building. Under the one roof are seven
regular “curling sheets” and a large skating rink.
The rink is opened to the general public and pro-
visions are made for civic organizations to use
it through arrangements with the recreation de—
partment. During the three-day bonspiel, of
course, the skating rink is closed and nine more
“sheets” are laid by the expert park department
personnel.

Each year the Superior Figure Skating Club, in
cooperation with the park and recreation depart-
ments, produces a huge ice show and, through the
years, has developed stars who have gained re-
nown in this profession.

During the big bonspiel and the annual ice show,
the recreation department serves as a coordinating
agency and, more times than not, as a clearing
house for the troubles that crop up during the
productions. In attempting to keep close harmony
among the groups that use the municipal skating
arena and curling club, the recreation department
has promoted an integrated interest in these popu-
lar icy sports.

425

 

426

AIETY AND FUN should be the keynote of a
G New Year’s Eve party, tying in with the
idea of “starting the New Year right.” Decora-
tions should be as colorful and festive as possible.
Balloons and gay paper streamers can be used, or
Christmas decorations can be adapted to the occa—
sion by the addition, to the Christmas greenery, of
gaily colored bells. Pictures of Father Time, with
his long beard and scythe, and of the New Year
as a newborn baby, or a cherub, can be centered
effectively. The dates of the old and new year
might be featured, perhaps arranged with flowers
or greens.

Consider giving out paper hats at the door. If
there is time to make humorous ones at home, or
in a group beforehand, so much the better. Giving
girls’ hats to the boys or men would be a touch
of fun. In the awarding of prizes for the games
to be played, a great deal of merriment can result
from occasionally presenting the winner with a
suggestion for a stunt which he must perform or
a task for him to do, or perhaps with a prediction
of his fortune in the New Year, preferably in a
humorous jingle——t0 be read aloud.

New Hobbies—Pre-parly Icebreaker—Give
each player. two cards, a pencil and a pin. Tell
him to think of a new hobby for the New Year,
then to draw a picture giving a clue as to what he
has chosen, and to sign his name below it (if the
players are unacquainted). When finished, this
picture is pinned to the player’s chest where all
can see. When all players are placarded, each
takes his second card, goes around the room look-
ing at the drawings of others, guesses what hob-
bies their pictures represent and writes down the
name of each person whose drawing he has in-
spected, along with his guess. After a period of
ten minutes or more, time is called, and players
count the number of pe0ple’s names they have col-
lected, and the number of hobby guesses. An
award is given to the player with the largest list
of names, and a slightly better award to the one
who guessed the greatest number of hobbies cor-
rectly. If players in the group are acquainted,

have them omit collecting names and merely guess
the hobbies.

Past Year’s Advertising—Pre-party Icebreak-
er, for small group—Cut up old magazines for
this one, while doing your pre-party planning.
Paste advertising slogans, often used throughout
the past year, or ads with the name of the com-
pany removed, on as many cards as there will be
players. When guests arrive, pin one of these
cards on each player and give him a blank card
and pencil. Ask him to go around to each person

RECREATION

and guess what the slogan advertises, or the name
of the company advertising, as the case may be,
jotting down his guess opposite the name of the
player whose card he is examining. At the end of
a stated period, give an award to person guess—
ing the largest number of ads correctly.

“I Resolve . . .”—Announce that since the New
Year cannot be started correctly without good
resolutions, and that since it is usually hard to
make up one’s mind as to what to resolve, you
are going to let your guests help each other. Ap-
point one guest (a lively one if possible) to act
as chairman of the Resolutions Committee. All
other guests are to be members of the committee.

Each person is to write down a resolution for
one other person in the room, and to bear in .mind
that these resolutions, no matter how ridiculous
they may sound, are to go into effect immediately
and to be “lived up to” throughout the evening.
In fact, it will be the job of the committee to see
to it that they are carried out, and to report any
broken resolutions to the chairman immediately.
If, for instance, someone resolves to improve his
manners, or stand up for his rights, or always see
that his partner is seated, or whatever, he had
better stick to it or suffer the consequences.

Have guests fold the resolutions and drop them
into a bowl. Mix them thoroughly and let each
guest draw a slip warning him that Fate has a
hand in this and that he’d better live up to what
he finds written there. Guests read aloud.

The chairman collects the reports throughout
the party. Provide him with a list of stunts to be
performed by resolution breakers at the end of
the evening—just before, or during, refreshments.
They should be brief and funny as possible. Ex-
amples—make a noise like a rooster at dawn;
imitate a girl seeing a mouse; recite one verse of
a poem or jingle; imitate a “blues” singer; imper-
sonate Father Time, and so on.

Charades—This game is good at any time, and
particularly so at a New Year’s party where
everyone is ready for active fun. The players
should be divided into two teams, or into several
small groups if the party is large. A group _or
team selects a word and acts it out, first by sylla-
- bles, or groups of syllables, and then as an entire
word in a single, final act which expresses the
meaning of the charade as a whole. Talking, as
a part of the act, may be used or not, as you wish,
but care should be taken that the actual syllable
is not said during the performance.

If the charade is not guessed within a certain
time limit, perhaps five or ten minutes, the same
group acts another. This is continued until one

DECEMBER 1949

charade is guessed, after Wthl‘l the teams change
sides. Score should be kept by allowing each team
one point for each correct guess. If played at a
large party, each group takes a turn at acting, all
the-others doing the guessing. The answers score
for the individual, in this case, rather than for the
team. Awards are given for the highest score.

Magazine Contest—A quiet game may be de-
sirable after an active session of charades, but if
more action seems indicated, skip this one.

Pass out paper and pencils and have guests
write their name and list numbers up to twenty
down the side of the sheet. Then read the follow-
ing statements, asking players to write down a
guess as to the magazine described. After every-
one has finished, papers should be passed to the
person on the left. Read the answers aloud, guests
scoring the papers, with one point given for every
correct 'answer. Highest scores win a small award.

Guessing Contest Answers
1. A prisoner’s dream. Liberty
2. A great sum of money. Fortune
3. The character of the popula-
lation of New York City. Cosmopolitan
4. A cat or dog or husband. Woman’s Home
Companion
5. A Duke’s crown. Coronet
6. The aim of every housewife. Good Housekeeping
7. What every child has or had. Parents
8. Where there is hope. Life
9. Busy people have too little;
idlers too much Time
10. A type of gentleman (some-
times questionable). Esquire
11. A color; printed pages
between two covers. Red Book
12. A nationality. American

13. A body of water; thirty days.
14. The girl friend.
15. Bath night and the mail.

Atlantic Monthly
Youth’s Companion
Saturday Evening

Post
16. Before you leap. Look
17. Coal carriers. Colliers
18. A famous hotel. New Yorker
19. The corner garagemen. Popular Mechanics
20. A vacation; Fourth of July. Holiday

Human Checkers—Arrange seven chairs in a
line, with a vacant chair in the center. Three men
and three women try to move to opposite“ sides by
moving one at “a time, jumping one at a time, and
never moving backward. Finish in fifteen moves.

Persons may jump own sex as well as opposite
sex.

The solution is that a man slides, lady jumps,
lady slides, three men move, three ladies move,
three men move, two ladies move, and one man
moves. (Pennies and nickels, small and large
glasses, and the like may also be used to play the

above game.) In a large group, several sets of
human checkers can be formed.

Double or Nothing — M ock “Quiz” Radio
Program—Prepare, in advance, Categories of ques-

427

tions from which contestants may choose those
they prefer to answer. Such categories might be
music, history, movies, art, literature, and so on.
For each one, prepare a long list of questions and
answers to be used by the leader, thereby provid-
ing for the contingency of more than one person
choosing the same category. (If your party is a
group project, a committee can work out a mock
show, with funny commercial announcements and
so on.)

Have the players draw up chairs facing a lead-
er, who now becomes master of ceremonies with
some sOrt of a dummy microphone rigged up in
front of him. If possible, it might be well to
choose one of the liveliest members of the group
as m. c. Suggest a comedy commercial sponsor to
him and supply him with plenty of stage money
(handmade, on green paper).

The leader then selects players from the audi-
ence to come up to the “mike” and try their luck.
He offers five dollars for the first correct answer,
and allows his guest to decide, on each succeeding
question, whether he would like to take the money
and stop, or take the chance of doubling it on the
next question. The second question, therefore,
will pay ten dollars, if correctly answered. If not,
the contestant is out of the game and returns to
his seat to wait for the “jackpot question.” A
variation on this way of playing the game can be
that the person who cannot answer the question

becomes m. c. as forfeit, and the previous m. c.
joins the circle of contestants.

Allow each contestant five questions, and give
them one minute to answer each question. At the
end of the contest (do not draw it out too long),
spring the jackpot question. Be careful not to
make this too easy, nor so difficult that no one
will be able to answer. Award the winner with a
prize, and give simple awards to the holders of
the most money.

Watch the Clocks—Be careful to keep one eye
on the clock and stop all games a few minutes be-
fore twelve. Plan something special to mark this
momentous hour. Distribute horns or noise maku
ers; have one or two cooperative guests give a
signal for general merrymaking by beating one or
two sharp blasts on tin pans and calling Happy
New Year. You might tune in the radio or set
your television dial for the celebration in Times
Square, New York, to add to the general excite—
ment.

Start singing “Auld Lang Sync” with any
group handy. The refrain will be picked up by
everyone. If all are in the mood to sing, this
might be followed by other appropriate selections.
In a large party, at the stroke of twelve, lights
might be dimmed, a spotlight turned on a be-
decked poster of the New Year or of the new
date. Refreshments should be served immediately
following the general din.

 

Housing Developments Stress Reeseatien

MANY OF THE large housing developments in

New York City are now offering tenants of
all ages a wide variety of community facilities,
planned as substitutes for the once—familiar yards,
cellars and attics which families have used for play
and homework.

The New York Times reports that the New
York Life Insurance“ Company has under con—
struction everything from tot lots to bowling alleys
and a movie theatre seating 2,000 for its Fresh
Meadows development in Queens, soon to be an
integrated city of about 12,000 people. Numerous
clubs have also been organized in meeting rooms
in the development, and a carpentry shop is being
readied in a non-residential building.

The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has
a recreation director and assistants to supervise
the play areas in its developments. Outdoor play

428

areas, including softball fields, badminton courts
and wading pools account for most of the commu-
nity facilities in these projects, with a limited
amount of play space indoors for inclement weath-
er. Horseshoe pitching and shufileboard courts
are other attractions for adults, with tournaments,
pageants, singing games and similar activities for

the children.

Community facilities are also evident in the
low-rent housing projects under the New York
City Housing Authority, where eighteen nurseries
are now in operation and two more underway.
These are either endowed or run by a private or
public agency whenever possible. In addition,
every project provides community rooms or com-
plete centers where interracial and non-sectarian
groups can meet.

RECREATION

RECREATION’S PUBLIC RELATIONS

N~ URGENCY exists for better public relations
A in the field of recreation. Neither the con~
cept of recreation nor the need for trained profes-
sional leadership is understood widely enough.

Psychiatrists, educators, sociologists, judges,
enlightened parents, clergymen raise their voices
to tell us that recreation is as important in mod-
ern society as sanitation, police protection, public
health measures. Yet we, as practitioners in recre-
ation, are reluctant to do an effective job of edu-‘
cation and selling for the benefit of our commu—
nities and of ourselves.

Achieving status for recreation and for recrea—
tion workers depends upon sound public relations,
based on a well-thought-out and effective program,
nationally and locally. It calls for an understand—
ing of public relations and the most modern meth—
ods of application in an organized and efficient
fashion. Certain outworn ideas about public rela—
tions have to be uprooted; new ideas have to be
wisely accepted and put into practice.

David M. Cox, lecturer at Northwestern Uni-
versity and public relations consultant, says, “Pub-
lic relations is composed of public opinion and
human relations.” It is, he adds, the “dealing
(relations) of an organization with groups (pub—
lics)———public relationships.”

These definitions make it plain that public re-
lations is more than mere publicity. Publicity is
one of the means used in many public relations
programs. A public relations program is most
effective at the point of sale—at that point where
the consumer or the one acted upon comes most
closely in contact with the organization trying to
act upon him. In other words, neither advertising
nor publicity does as much toward selling a prod—
uct or an idea as what takes place at the point of
contact—over the counter.

Rather than a general public, there are a num-
ber of publics, each with a different relationship

Mr. Gilman, ar director, Chicago Recreation Commit-
rion, ha: worked hard at ertahlirhing rozmd public
relation: through the recreation program in that city.

DECEMBER 1949

James W. Gilman

to the organization and to each other. No lengthy
demonstration is needed to make it clear that the
taxpaying public, a participating public of elemen-
tary school age, and local playground leaders all
have a relationship to a community recreation or-
ganization, but all differ in needs and interests.
If a public relations program is to succeed, each
of the important publics related to the organiza-
tion must be taken into consideration and its
needs and desires considered individually.

Don’t forget that public relations exists at all
times. Your public relations program is only an
enlightened application of methods aimed at mak—
ing your various publics willing or eager to accept
your services or your mere existence.

If a public relations program is to be effective,

an objective analysis of your publics is the first

job. Business firms, that can afford to, retain out-
side consultants to do this job, in order to assure
objectivity. Most recreation organizations have to
do the best they can within themselves. Don’t be
surprised if an organization of taxpayers judges
what you consider objectivity as charged with
emotional self-interest.

Assuming that your organization is a tax—sup-
ported agency, what are the most important pub—
lics in your relationships? Some are: I) public
officials—the mayor or equivalent administrative
officer, members of the city council or board, civil
service administrators, chief of police; 2) mem—
bers of your own governing board; 3) taxpayers
and members of taxpayers associations; 4) em-
ployees; 5) participants in your various programs ;
6) representatives of publicity media.

In every organization the number of important
publics differs somewhat. Once you accept the
idea that there is no such thing as a general pub—
lic—that a special kind of job has to be done for
each of your separate, though not always distinct,
publics—you will begin to see them plainly and to
sense the kind of relationship you want and meth-
ods of achieving it. Better start with the premise
that you can’t be all things to all publics. The
interests of taxpayers looking for reduced taxes

429

and the participating group looking for more rec-
reation Opportunities are opposed to each other.
The employee public desiring better pay has still
a different point of view.

Your public relations program becomes entan-
gled with the public relations program of other
organizations. Skillful operation is called for and
it can come from no other source than the execu-
tive himself. An ex-newspaper man who knows
only how to prepare press releases won’t help
much even if he captures miles of Space in the
press. The planning of public relations is a job
for the top brass unless outside consultants can
be hired. It should never be delegated to the sec-
retarial help, although they play important parts
in the operation.

Let’s outline briefiy what is involved in the pub-
lic relations program as it concerns each of your
publics. Different methods will doubtless suggest
themselves once your objective is clear, but a few
ideas may help you achieve the needed clarity.
Keep in mind that the point of contact is the im-
portant one with each. You canit control what
they are going to read or what they will listen to
over the radio, although you can take steps to
supplement it.

Public Officials

What about the city officials? When are you
” closest to them? When does your organization
reach them most intimately? There probably are
a number of places: when constituents use your
facilities and find them satisfactory; when your
programs reach some of the young people living
close to them; when the per capita cost of your
program is commented upon favorably; when the
delinquency rate declines; when voters approve
your bond issues without undue alarm.

Public officials want to know what is going on
about them. More than that, since they are re-
sponsible for providing funds for your operations,
you have the reSponsibility of keeping them in-
formed. But make the informing pleasant. Small
doses at frequent intervals will be worth much
more than voluminous and sleep-inducing reports
once or twice a year. They should be regularly in-
vited to participate in your affairs; you should ask
and welcome their advice. It won’t hurt your
organization a bit if you try to discover some of
the hobbies of your city officials and cater to these
hobbies just a little. There’s only one way of mak-
ing them your friends and that is by being friendly.

Board Members

If your organization is governed by a board of
trustees or any other board, you have a group

430

that calls for particular public relations attention.
Members of boards have a way of losing their
identity with the rest of the world when they sit
down to be board members. What happens to
them no one has ever been able to determine
exactly. Any one of them as an individual, away
from the board room table, would be a fair fac—
simile of a human being. Sit him down as a mem-
ber of a board and he immediately becomes a
stuffed shirt. The job here, perhaps, is to make
board members relax by having them understand
the human value of the program by making each
member feel that he has a responsibility as a hu—
man being as well as a policy-maker.

Keep human interest before board members.
This can be done by showing movies or photo-
graphs of various activities, by repeating com-
ments and seeing to it that news stories covering
your various activities are put under their eyes
in the presence of other board members and that
graphic descriptions of interesting programs are
made a part of meetings.

Further, you should make every effort to get
them to take part in the program. One might be
invited to play Santa Claus at a Christmas party;
another, with the pr0per background, might be
asked to design a printed piece; another might
serve as a contact between you and a printer; an—
other might be asked for advice on writing pub-
licity copy or placing it effectively; another may
have connections with a statistical group which
would be useful in preparing the statistical section
of an annual report. There are many ways to get
participation, if you have the imagination to dream
them up and make the need plain.

Taxpaying Public

Reaching the public of taxpayers primarily re-
quires ability to conduct your organization effi-
ciently and to be able to demonstrate this fact.
You should be ready at all times to say how much
money is being spent, and for what. You should
know how much a summer day camp program
costs and what items are involved, as well as how
many children benefit from it and the approximate
cost for each participant.

Plans for future development of the program,
for new activities, for further acquisitions of prop-
erty, and the like, should be publicized fully and
completely. Stories in newspapers, maps, posters,
radio interviews, talks before community and
neighborhood councils———all are part of the ap-
proach. Here education is the key—after all, the
taxpaying public has a right to know how its
money is being spent.

RECREATION

Interpretation of ultimate results is of the ut—
most importance. Dancing per se may not seem
important but a comparison of where teen-agers
spent their time before dances were held regularly,
and afterward, may point up a striking contrast.
In one village, the first year a community Hal-
loween program was inaugurated, vandalism was
reduced from several thousands of dollars to less
than ten dollars, complaints to the police depart-
ment from more than one hundred to two.

Such facts bearing on tax costs are startling
evidence of the economic values of a recreation
program and should be used to the fullest advan-
tage. Make sure that the .taxpayer realizes what
he, as a property owner, as a parent, and as an
individual, stands to gain from a recreation pro-
gram, as well as what ‘it will cost him. Parents
seldom fully value their stake in a recreation sys-
tem until it is pointed out to them dramatically.

You’ll have many examples of your own to
draw upon. You can demonstrate, among other
things, that property values increase where good
parks and playgrounds exist. Repetition of even
good examples, however, lessens their effective-
ness. Remember that taxes that achieve ends im-
mediately discernable are not resented nearly as
much as those which the taxpayer suSpects are
wasted.

It was a brilliant, even though uncalled for,
piece of public relations by a taxpayers’ organi-
zation to attack the cost of a proposed nursery
school program as a tax to provide “baby sitters.”
The only way to offset such a diabolical notion is
to report fully on the facts: how many children of
families, in which both the father and mother
work, are present in the community; what hap-
pens to children of these families if they are left
on their own; how much nursery schools do for
the deveIOpment of the child in preparing him for
his regular school experience; the cost of a delin-
quent as compared to the cost of nursery schools.

Employees

When you think of employees as one of your
publics you have to think of them in a dual role:
1) their relationship to the organization which
employs them; 2) their relationship as represen—
tatives of the organization to the participants in
the program. Then you have to consider the kind
of work done by the employee. Is his work chiefly
maintenance or program, administrative or pro-
tective? Is he a boss, a leader, a teacher or a
janitor? Whatever his role, he should be trained
to see its relationship to the organization as a
whole and to the publics that relate to it. Skill,

DECEMBER 1949

 

Do participants enjoy your programs? Here two
Chicago children demonstrate good public relations.

philosophy and behavior are important, and
should be included in efficiency ratings of each
employee. They have bearing on his public rela-
tions value.

Try to instill in the maintenance worker the
public relations value of cleanliness, orderliness,
good sanitary conditions, of physical attractive-
ness. Program people need to know how much
public relations value their leadership has and to
be provided with opportunities to improve their
leadership skills.

Obtaining the finest public relations result‘s
calls for maintaining the best employment prac-
tices. Discipline, democracy, opportunity for pro-
motion, elimination of petty rivalries and jeal-
ousies, and a continuing and thorough emphasis
on the importance of recreation to the individual,
should mark all relationships to the employees, so
that they in turn may reflect to outsiders the true
value of your organization.

Participants

What participants think of your program is the
most important part of'your public relations. I-Iow
potential participants can be made to think favor-
ably enough of it to join it is next most important.
Your most significant public relations questions
are: Is my organization successfully serving those
now in its program? Is my organization offering
attractive and increasing services to the people in
my community in increasing numbers?

Here is a list of searching questions you might
answer in evaluating your recreative services.
Check your objectivity by passing out similar sets
to your best workers, representative residents of

431

your community and members of your board.
Even if you don’t care about their Opinions, it will
be good public relations to ask 'for them.

Do boys and girls both enjoy your programs? DO
they grow physically, mentally, socially through
the Opportunities offered? Do they feel that they
belong to your program and your organization?
Do they feel that, at least in part, your organiza-
tion belongs to them? Do they pride themselves
on what they accomplish? DO they come back to
visit? Do they join new programs for older age
groups as they outgrow those in which they
started? Do they volunteer as assistants when
they have achieved skill? DO they identify them-
selves with your organization or agency? Do girls
have as great an opportunity as boys to partici-
pate? Do retired and elderly peOple feel at home
in club rooms of their own or in other parts of
the program? Do you suffer from vandalism? Do
parents respect your judgment in leadership?

DO youngsters attend merely because they have
no other places to go? Is this true of elderly peo-
ple? DO they come because they want to, because
they enjoy coming? Do they bring friends? Is the
shy girl or boy encouraged to join in with others?
Is there variety great enough to give every young-
ster a chance to do something he likes? Do you
see to it that special attention is given to the needs
Of Specific age groups? DO you see to it that par-
ticipants are treated as individuals or are they
just part of the “army”? Do you COOperate with
. clubs, veterans groups, service organizations, hob-
by groups, and so on? Are your facilities avail-
able and widely used by allied organizations which
have no facilities Of their own? DO you try to
give equal Opportunities to all who come to your
organization for recreation? Do you make an
effort tO discover groups that you are not serving?

Publicity

Plenty of good textbooks have been written on
the mechanics of publicity. The main point to
remember is that publicity is only a part Of the
whole public relations picture; that it is a means
Of gaining attention; that it is a temporary means

of spreading information, a poor means of educa-
tion. It is healthy to remember that yesterday’s
newspaper wraps today’s garbage and that the
words said over the air are even less lasting in
their effect. Public Opinion polls have proved this
time and time again.

When you get beyond newspaper and radio
publicity, you may find other activities of more
consistent value. Providing an information center
where the facts about all recreation activities in
your community can3 be easily obtained is a good
public service. Service is generally appreciated;
ballyhoo is winked at and forgotten. You should
keep your activities before local service clubs,
church clubs, PTA’s, school assemblies, fraternal
organizations and community councils. Here’s
where your board members may fit in—as speak-
ers for your organization. You yourself must be
ready to preach the gOSpel at every Opportunity,
and personal contact and acquaintances carry
much weight.

One of your important publics is the group
through whom you have to work to obtain pub-
licity. Study the neWSpaper men and women, the
radio program directors and announcers, as you
would any Of your publics. They are important—
since, despite everything, your organization will
be judged by some, probably publicity-seeking
board members, largely on the number of inches
of newspaper publicity you can capture and the
number of minutes or hours you have had of radio
time.

The substance of a broad, sound public rela-
tions program is just common sense. Emphasis is
placed where it belongs, on a basis of human rela-
tionships. What its various publics do and think
about the organization is what counts. The prac-
titioners of recreation have a responsibility to
themselves, as well as to the men and women,
boys and girls they serve, tO achieve recognition
and to teach the need for recreation Opportunities.
Recreation in the minds Of the multitude must
grow out of its delinquency prevention stage and
be recognized broadly as essential to the proper
growth Of peOple socially, mentally and physically.

432

_/4 Congreaa Story

ARRY EISENBERG, telling a story at the Recrea-
L tion Congress: “The hunters were fast on his
trail, but the lion shook them Off. He sneaked
into his cave, and—sitting down comfortably—
he picked up RECREATION magazine and started
to read. By the way, have you all renewed your
subscriptions? H 3 did.” - ‘

RECREATION

 

Knives from Scrap

HEN WALTER STEWART retired after a life-
Wtime of farming and ranching, his family
and friends said to themselves, “It won’t be long
now,” meaning that a man who is pushing seventy
can’t just quit work and live. As Gramps (only
the income tax collector calls him Mr. Stewart)
says: “Life is sure puzzling. On the farm, after
a hard day’s work, I’d have to chore a couple of
hours and then maybe empty ashes or bring in
coal. Here, in town, where time’s awasting, all I
do is walk around and push buttons.”

The change was pretty tough the first year, and
he became a little griped with hanging around
doctors’ ofhces and prescription counters. One
morning he ’phoned the nurse that he wouldn’t be
in that day, threw the medicine bottles and pills
away, and started dusting off hiS'tools. Suddenly
he remembered that all his life he’d had a yen to
make knives.

Living at the foot of the Rockies, whe're trees
must constantly be cut from highways and irriga-
tion ditches, most people burn a few logs, if only
in the fireplace. Consequently, cross saws—which
make good knife blades—abound. Then, too,
there are always’old hand saws at auctions, junk
yards and seCond-hand stores. So, super blade
material can be had for a song.

The next essential item is handles. Here
Gramps really has fun and adventure. Stumbling
over an old wagon wheel, he found spokes of sea-
soned hardwood, and made some “dillies” from
them. A discarded hickory axe handle caught his
eye and ended on, a blade; and red spruce makes

a smooth handle, too. The most novel handles, ‘

however, are made from deer horns. In this big
game country, many people have antlers hanging
in their garage or basement, relegated there when
the sportsman of the family bagged a better speci-
men for the den or living room. The younger
generation swap horns like marbles, and few
families are without them.

When Gramps expressed an interest in these
horns, he, was immediately deluged with more

DECEMBER 1949

Irene Scott

than he could use. He explains, “A deer horn
shouldn’t be too old or weathered. Best time is
within two years after killing. Unseasoned horns
are too full of marrow. However, when horns
have been kept in enclosures they are OK, al-
though twenty years old. There’s a lot of waste
because many of the prongs are too crooked to use.
I’ve got to have straight sides to work with.”

Bone has no grain, so will saw straight without
splitting. A few applications of wax complete at-
tractive gray, cream, white or variegated handles.
Gramps works the wooden handles down with an
eighteen—inch wood rasp, and then finishes up with
a smaller file. These handles are allowed to sim—
mer in a can of raw linseed oil for several hours;
then they are painted, varnished or waxed.

In his headquarters in the furnace room, he
marks out the prospective blade pattern with a
chisel, puts it in a vise and, holding it with pinch-
ers or pliers, bends the metal back and forth until
the “blade” cracks along the chiseled lines. Then
he works it into acceptable form with his emery
wheel. Not all the blades extend to the end of the
handle, but they must extend at least two and a
half inches between the handle halves to allow for
riveting. He tempers the handle end of the blade
over an open flame, after wrapping the cutting
part in a wet cloth, to keep it from breaking when
he punches holes in it.

The cost of this hobby is nil—maybe ten cents
for each knife—because most of the stuff is just
picked up or given to Gramps. He gets about live
heavy butcher knives and five average knives out
of a cross-cut saw, while an ordinary hand saw
will yield about sixteen paring knives. It takes
about seven hours to make a twelve-inch knife.

A disabled vet who operates in the locality asks
store prices for Gramps’ wares, although he has
no need of money. What he wants and gets is
companionship—the neighboring women are very
interested in him and in his knives. Just ask his
wife about his hobby!

433

AMERICAN CITIES IN RECREATI

Oakland, California

AKLAND, CALIFORNIA, with a population of
0 approximately 430,000 people, is situated on
San Francisco Bay overlooking the Golden Gate.
That it more than doubled its population" between
1900 and 1910 is readily understandable. A repu—
table history of the city reveals that the week after
the San Francisco earthquake, about 150,000 peo~
ple crossed the Bay. Having once lived in this
environment of natural beauty, 65,000 became per-
manent residents. This great influx of new resi-
dents undoubtedly was one of the factors which
influenced Oakland to become the second city in
the west to install a playground system. This
grew into the Oakland Recreation Department,
which has progressed and flourished throughout
the past forty-two years.

Agitation for a public recreation commission
developed as early as 1907, the year after the
Playground and Recreation Association of Amer—
ica 'was formed. During the summer months of
1907 and 1908 a play instructor was employed by
a progressive organization of women, the Oakland
Club, to supervise and teach games on two school
grounds in the' city. Because of the good results
of these eHorts, a playground commission of live
members was appointed by the mayor in Decem-
ber, 1908. In addition, $600 was donated to the
commission from the City Emergency Fund for
the purpose of conducting a vacation playground
during the summer months of 1909.

George E. Dickie, now coordinator for the F ed-
eral Inter—Agency Recreation Committee, was
Oakland’s first superintendent of recreation. He
was appointed to direct the vacation playgrounds
in May, 1909, with a staff of four women direc—

434

tors. A new charter was put into effect in 1911
and under its terms the playground commission,
known as the Board of Playground Directors,
was organized and given the right of control and
management of all playgrounds owned and oper-
ated by the city. All of these, at that time, were
located in city parks and school yards.

A committee study on the recreation efforts of
the Oakland Board of Education and the Board
of Playground Directors resulted in a working
agreement, drawn up in 1914, providing for a
joint recreation program. Under the agreement,
all school areas became playgrounds, the school
buildings became community centers, and the
work of the playground directors was a continua—
tion of that of the school teachers. This agree-
ment still remains essentially the same as when
originally created, and it stands as a living tribute
to the line working relationships and cooperation
that have existed between these two civic bodies
for almost half a century.

Dr. Jay B. Nash, who is now a professor of
education at New York University, succeeded Mr.
Dickie as superintendent of the department in
1919, continuing in this capacity until July, 1926,
when he resigned to join the University staff.
Raymond \V. Robertson, assistant superintendent
under Dr. Nash, then took over the position. F 01—
lowing his retirement in August, 1946, he was
succeeded by Robert W. Crawford. It is signifi-
cant to note that a department with nearly a half
century of service has had only four superinten—
dents. Any national reputation and recognition of
Oakland’s recreation department can be largely
attributed to the foresight, vision and courage of

RECREATION

DART V

Lake Merritt, in city,
is scene of many enjoy-
able recreation ventures.

these men who made a lasting contribution to the
expansion of the program now in operation.

Progress

In 1919 the Industrial Athletic Association of
Oakland was formed, with the cooperation of the
recreation department. Today, approximately
sixty of the outstanding firms in the city are mem-
bers of this association and conduct a well-rounded
recreation program for their employees.

Another big step forward took place in 1921
and 1924 when the city’s two mountain family
camps were opened. One is in Tuolumne County
-——150 miles from Oakland-wand the other is in
Plumas County—225 miles away. Here entire
families can have restful, relaxing vacations at
moderate rates, with activities available to suit
each member.

When land for a public golf course was pur-
chased in I921, there was great opposition on the
part of some citizens to the construction of a
course “where the rich could idle away their
time.” However, there was sufficient public inter-
est in the idea that golf should become a game for
persons of moderate income to make the project
possible, and the Lake Chabot Golf Course was
Opened for play in 1923.

During the years 1926 to 1946, Oakland, like
every other city in the nation, went through a
major depression and then five years of war.
Through the aid of the Federal Government,
though, many new facilities were acquired in the
depression years of 1934 to 1939. It was during
those years that Davie Tennis Stadium, with a
battery of five night-lighted courts, and a care-

DECEMBER 1949

 

taker’s house, was constructed in an abandoned
quarry in the heart of the city. This stadium is
one of the outstanding tennis plants in the coun-
try and some of the great tennis players of the
nation have been developed here. Frequent play—
ers on the courts include well-known professionals
such as Don Budge and Frank Kovacs.

Also constructed during this time was a large
recreation area—Arroyo Viejo Recreation Center
—-containing picnic grounds, softball and hard-
ball diamonds, tennis courts, a clubhouse, a gar-
den theater, games’ courts and a children’s area.
One of the largest playgrounds in the city, it is
situated in the section of Oakland that has since
become densely populated. Other depression pro j-
ects were Montclair Playground, a well-equipped
and beautifully landscaped municipal playground;
Exposition Field, with its three night-lighted soft-
ball diamonds; Park Boulevard Clubhouse, the
sailboat house, and the golf course clubhouse.

Many other improvements were made at this
time, but during the war no facilities were con—
structed. As the population in the last eight years
has increased by 125,000, it has been necessary to
plan a wide program of expansion in both facilities
and leadership. This accelerated deve10pment has
been in progress since the end of hostilities.

Recently-built facilities, now in operation, in-
clude two clubhouses, one gymnasium, four tot
lots for pre-school children (making nine of these
in the city), an outdoor amphitheater, additional
camp facilities, a model airplane field, more lighted
tennis courts, turfed hardball and lighted softball
diamonds, and swimming pools. Also, five play-
grounds have been floodlighted.

435

When, in 1945, the people of Oakland passed a
bond issue for playgrounds and other recreation
facilities, funds were voted for the construction of
five swimming pools in different parts of the city.
Four of these pools were completed by July, 1949,
and are now being used. Operated by the recrea-
tion department, the pools are fifty by a hundred
feet in size. One of them is located on land given
the city by residents of the North Oakland area.
Adjoining the pool is a large building which once
served as a dormitory for a children’s home, and
which was included in the gift. It is now being
remodeled to serve as a recreation center for this
section.

Much of this growth was made possible when
the state legislature passed a bill permitting school
districts to grant long term leases to cities and
towns for recreation improvements. Other proj-
ects now under construction include more play-
fields and a new playground with clubhouses and
facilities for all ages. Other planned facilities are
on the drawing board and it’s anticipated that they
will develop into realities in the near future.

Organization and StaE

Organized as an autonomous unit of city gov-
ernment, the Oakland Recreation Department is
under the jurisdiction of the Board of Playground
Directors—composed of five lay men and women
who serve without compensation and who are ap-
pointed for six-year terms by the City Council.
At present, Lew F. Galbraith, civic leader, is pres-
ident of the board and Mrs. Ralph T. (Margaret
Merriam) Fisher, formerly a staff member of the
National Recreation Association, is vice—chair-
man. Other members are Miss Eva Ott, elemen-
tary school principal, Joshua R. Rose, executive
secretary of a local YMCA, and Fred Maggiora,
business man. The City Council appropriates
money for the board’s use and any funds remain-
ing unused at the end of the fiscal year are placed
in a reserve fund under the sole control of the
board, whose policy has been to use these reserves
for capital improvements.

Heading the department is a superintendent of
recreation, who is directly responsible to the
Board of Playground Directors. On his adminis-
trative staff are an administrative assistant and
four general supervisors of recreation. Each of
the general supervisors has a specific assignment—
one is in charge of city-wide program, another is
responsible for construction of new facilities, an-
other handles industrial athletics and adult recrea-
tion, and one is in charge of special activities,
such as camping, crafts, dramatics and teen-age

436

center events, and the like.

Full-time playground directors are assigned to
'the recreation centers and to the larger and more
important municipal playgrounds. Several full-
time directors also serve as resident directors at
community centers. The greatest number of play-
ground directors employed by the department—-
some four hundred—are part—time workers who
do not serve more than an average of thirty hours
a week. These directors are paid by the hour
under emergency civil service appointments. All
full-time employees are in civil service, and have
taken examinations in order to qualify for their
positions.

Last year the recreation department had an
operating budget of $802,000—quite different
from the original $600 appropriation! Of this
amount, $662,000 was granted by the City Coun-
cil—to whom the board submits a budget—and
the balance was made up of earnings of the vari-
ous pay-as—you-play facilities and activities in the
city. Revenue-raising facilities include the munic-
ipal golf course, boating and canoeing on Lake
Merritt (a large salt water lake in the heart of
the city, covering about 160 acres), camps, the
tennis stadium, swimming pools, and permit fees
for softball diamonds, tennis courts, clubhouses
and gymnasiums.

Facilities and Program

Oakland’s recreation facilities are established to
meet the needs of citizens of all ages. They in-
clude thirteen municipal playgrounds, forty-eight
elementary and seventeen secondary school play-
grounds, four community centers, three housing
project playgrounds. The municipal playgrounds
are open 365 days a year.

Eight camps are operated during the summer
monthsu—two family vacation camps, two chil-
dren’s mountain camps—one for boys and one for
girls—an in—town, overnight children’s camp, two
children’s day camps, and a day camp for handi-
capped children. The last is a new project and
is being conducted in cooperation with community
groups who are interested in these children.

The recreation program is based on the desires
of the people it serves. Activities are too numer-
ous to mention, but range from services to tiny
tots to the gigantic production of the Christmas
pageant. Basically, the criteria for evaluation of
the program is what happens to the people as a
result of their participation. Since the success
of the program is measured in terms of its effec-
tiveness, it is imperative that the areas and facil-
ities be under competent, trained, understanding

RECREATION

A storytelling session at recre-
ation department day camp for
boys and girls in Dimond Park.

A glimpse of Hawaii and authentic native dances is Swimming pool at Tuolumne Camp in Nevada Sierras,
part of Alexander Community Center spring festival. where whole families have chance to play together.

_ . - - 7 - .  . M . Lumqrmwtujuq-JA-y-afagm-u- - --:.i-u-.-pra—A -.A\- «Mu-4- -- -:-w----u|.v(f-\A a

a

Community centers, Industrial Athletic Association Gay Maypole dances are popular in spring festivals.
offer classes in crafts, dramatics, other activities. Children play~together regardless of race or creed.

 

and sympathetic leaders.

For the school—age child there are athletics,
music, crafts, drama, camping—all offering op-
portunities for them to play, share, and even live
with each other. A very interesting part of this
program, and an unusual one for a recreation
department, is the inclusion of crew activities for
children from the various playgrounds. Playground
directors are given a rigid course of instruction
and are certified for this activity before they are
allowed to enter a boat with children. At the end
of the season a regatta is held, a very colorful
event looked forward to by all the rowers and
parents. Crew also extends beyond children’s
groups and we find that adults, as well as members
of the Industrial Athletic Association, have in-
cluded this activity as a regular part of their
program. '

A special program of clubs for teen—age boys
and girls has been set up by the recreation depart-
ment, organized on a neighborhood basis whereby
they can take part in social gatherings such as
dancing, picnics, an athletic program, and so on.
The Teen—Age Council, made up of representa-
'tives from teen—age clubs in the city, serves as a
clearing house where the young people may dis-
cuss city—wide, as well as local, club problems and
events. Annual teen conferences add strength to
this phase of the program.

Adult classes include crafts, dramatics, sewing,
cooking,“ folk dancing and many other activities,
offered through the community centers and the
Industrial Athletic Association. This association
also offers men and women a wide variety of
leisure-time sports. Enjoyment of the department’s
folk dancing and hiking programs encourages the
promotion of these activities, either through active
leadership or in an advisory capacity. Folk dance
groups are conducted for beginners, intermediates
and advanced dancers, and occasionally all join
in large demonstrations where it is not uncommon

to see from 1,500 to 2,000 gaily-costumed dancers
going through intricate maneuvers.

A very popular service is provided by the cos-
tume department, which aids playgrounds, public
schools, children’s agencies and the like in their
non-profit and educational dramatic programs.
There are more than 10,000 costumes in the cos—
tume shop—almost all made by recreation depart-
ment employees. The small fee charged for the
rental of costumes covers laundry charges.

One of the department’s outstanding program
events is the annual Christmas pageant, presented
in the Municipal Auditorium with 12,000 spec-
tators and 1,600 children taking part. The pag-
eant is accepted by the people of Oakland as sym-
bolic of the opening of the holiday season, and
tickets are at a premium for its performance. A
two—hour production called “The Light of the
world,” the pageant traces the spiritual develop-
ment of man from the age of darkness to the birth
of Christ.

A fairly new feature of the department is the
program for senior citizens, designed to serve the
recreation needs of those over sixty years of age.
The desire of older people to get together with
those of similar age and interests is great, and
every recreation department in the country should
investigate the possibilities of providing a pro-
gram suitable for this group.

Last year, the recreation department served
more than two and a half million patrons on the
playgrounds and in the community centers. An-
other 74,2 50 adults were served by the Industrial
Athletic Association, and these did not include the
thousands who made use of the tennis courts, ball
diamonds and picnic areas.

Oakland has grown, and is growing rapidly.
Judging from the interest and support of the peo-
ple, the Oakland Recreation Department will con-
tinue to keep pace with the growing city, provid—
ing for the leisure of all.

 

Clever Use of Reprints

438

REPRINTS OF “The Story of American Cities in
Recreation—Part III,” which appeared in
RECREATION last December, were incorporated as
a part of the annual report of the Recreation Com-
mission of Mount Vernon, New York, “to serve
as background information for the list of activities
and attendance figures.” The article, reviewing
the history and giving an overall picture of recre-
ation in that community, was originally prepared
by R. \Valter Cammack, Superintendent of Rec-
reation of Mount Vernon.

RECREATION

RECREATION—Its Meaning for Youth

HARRY D. EDGREN

ODAY I AM using the term “recreation” to sig-
nify those activities youth choose in their
lelsure, where the joy is “in the doing,” where the

and the sense of achievement in the development
of a new skill. These, it seems to me, are the in-
gredients that add up to make recreation “fun”.

satisfaction of the activity is
the only compulsion for par-
ticipation.

To ascribe to youth cer-
tain interpretations of rec—
reation is a bit dangerous,
but if they were responding
to the question, “Why do
you like certain activities?”
or “What do you get out of
them?” I am quite certain
their answers would include
some of the following: “I
make friends there!” “Our
club is going on this hike,”
or “The girls are all going,”
and most of them would
say, “It’s fun!”

The Midcentury White House Confer-
ence on Children and Youth. which will
be held in Washington the week of De-
cember 3, I950. "bases its concern for
children on the primacy of spiritual val-
uesI democratic practice, and the dig-
nity and worth of every individual. Ac-
cordingly its purpose shall be to con-
sider how we can devel0p in children
the mental. emotional and Spiritual qual-
ities essential to individual happiness
and to responsible citizenship."

As recreation plays so large a part in
the lives of our young people. state and
local recreation leaders are urged to
get in touch with state committees. al-
ready appointed in sixteen states. or

with pr0per state authorities where such

Unfortunately, these in-
gredients and the result,
“fun,” are all too frequently
not experienced by many
youth in our present organ-
ized recreation. We have
done well in offering oppor-
tunities for recreation to
those who excel. The varsity
teams of our elementary and
high schools, the glee clubs
and orchestras of our pri—
vate agencies, the champion
tennis player in community
recreation, all have many
opportunities to have fun.
This, however, is less than
ten percent of the youth of

Young people who give
these answers have had an
exhilarating experience, un-
bounded joy and the fun of
participating with friends in
activities to which they
Were able to give themselves with complete free-
dom. The result for them is expressed in the word
“fun”. To me the reaction of “it was fun” is a
result of other things which happened and which
youth has been unable to analyze.

If certain factors were not present, the result
would not have been fun. Some of these are: I)
being accepted and wanted by others of the same
age; 2) making new friends, and the real fellow-
ship of old friends; 3) the complete escape when
an activity is interesting and all-consuming; 4)
the recognition that is given by others when your
contribution is applauded and praised; and 5) the
sense of personal worth that accompanies growth

 

The author, Harry D. Edgrea, ix profemor of recrea-
tion at George William: College in Chicago, Illinoir.

DECEMBER 1949

committees are being formed. They
also should be alert to community de-
velopments and participate in them.

 

most of our communities.
Then there are another
twenty percent who respond
to the invitation to learn
skills in classes, to become
members of recreation clubs
and to participate in the intramural program of
our schools or the invitational tournaments in our
communities.

But what about the remaining seventy percent?
They have the same wants, desires, and aSpira—
tions as the others, but they do not respond to
the opportunities offered them, and organized rec-
reation leaders have acted as though they don’t
want to have fun. Yet they do but, because of the
conflict between their wants and their fears, they
remain away. (Incidentally, realization of this
fact is terrifically. important to .leaders of recrea—
tion.) These fears might arise from lack of skill
which the young people feel will be embarrassing,
or from inability to make friends, or just from lack
of an adventurous spirit.

Let me be more specific in describing a few

439

experiences which identify the reasons for some
of the fears preventing many young pe0ple from
enjoying recreation activities.

1. Two girls were advised by a social worker
to attend a stag dance at an institutional church
in their neighborhood. Attending the dance, sit-
ting alone throughout most of the evening, they
left with a decision never to return to that place.

2. Alice, a not too agile girl, reports to her first
gymnasium class in school. Because of her awk-
wardness she is told to sit and watch while all
the other girls have a good time. She is an ex-
ample of the daughter for whom thousands of
mothers now secure doctor’s certificates excusing
them from gymnasium for some alleged physical
disability.

3. Tony is typical of many youngsters who re-
peatedly try out for a school or community team
only to find that they are just below the height
the coach has set as a minimum—or some other
arbitrary reason not connected with skill or ability.

4. Joe loves baseball, but each time he is

around, when the two captains (always the best '

players) choose sides, he is chosen last and per—
mitted to stand and wait while the captains decide
who will take him. He is finally told to report to
right field and he may or may not get his turn
to bat if someone more able shows up.

\Vhat, then, could recreation mean to some of
our youth? First, it could mean the opportunity
to participate in a great variety of experiences, all
of which have their unique contribution. These
would include outdoor nature activities, arts and
crafts, the dance, athletics, music, dramatics, and
the hobbies of collecting and creating. These
activities would be offered at beginner, average
and advanced levels of skill. This variety also can
give individuals new experiences so much needed
in our mechanical world.

Secondly, recreation can and should provide
for youth the Opportunity for group experience
with others who have the same interests. Recrea-
tion’s great opportunity is to help youth make and
keep friends. Some of us feel that the experience
of being in a group and being accepted, and the
accompanying sense of belonging, is more impor-
tant than the activity itself. Our mental health
pe0ple tell us that it is very important that all
peOple have a sense of belonging and of being part
of groups, if life is to be very meaningful.

Recreation should also provide young people
with a sense of release from the tensions and con-
cerns of modern life. Opportunity for such release
usually is provided in those activities where, in
complete absorption, they may cut loose with

440

abandon, and provide a real escape from other
routine phases of life.

Recreation may give individuals recognition and
the'personal sense of worth that comes from ac—
complishment. This happens when individuals or
groups express a desire to be officers, or members
of a committee, and when they increase their own
skill and ability and know that they are advancing
and progressing. Belief in one’s self is important
to full living, to becoming independent and to de-
veloping into an emotiOnally mature adult.

Yes, recreation, when adequately conducted, can
fill these essential needs. If recreation programs
do not provide such opportunities, many of our
young people will not experience them. Our
schools do not adequately fill them. Dr. Brink,
of Northwestern University, informs us that 553
out of every 1,000 high school youth leave school
each year because they do not find high school in—
teresting. \Ve also know that many vocations and
jobs, because of their routine nature, do not per-
mit youth to be much more than a number receiv—
ing a salary with which to provide food, shelter
and clothing. They must go elsewhere to find
the real satisfaction of rich living. These facts
give support to the concept that recreation is
essential and, with this fact goes an accompanying
responsibility, an obligation as well as an Oppor-
tunity to use our organized agency recreation, as
well as family recreation, in ways which will be
most productive and satisfying to the youth of
our country.

Youth needs and wants adults like you to join
with them in a c00perative effort to secure the
kind of facilities, leadership and recreation pro-
grams in homes, churches, schools, and public and
private agencies, that will provide the caliber of
program which will meet this need and aid in ful-
filling their hopes, desires and aSpirations. All
that I have said identifies the role of leadership in
recreation. In short, it suggests that leadership
be more concerned with whom the individuals are
and what happens to them through recreation
activities. This is very effectively shown in the
movie “Leaders for Leisure,” which is available
from the Athletic Institute, 209 South State
Street, Chicago 4, Illinois.

When we have done our part, then we can feel
with the Chinese poet, Wang Wei, who, when
asked the definition of supreme happiness here
below, said, “I am old, I have not traveled very
far, but this one thing I know. You ask me what
is the supreme happiness here below? It is watch-
ing a little boy go whistling down the road after
he has asked me the way.”

RECREATION

Music and Drama in Program

NICOLETTA URIUOLI

Presented at the New York State Recreation Conference

T HAS OFTEN been said that, in order to have a

well-rounded recreation program, music and
drama should be included for those individuals not
interested in physical activities. This is very true,
but we can go a step further, for there' are many
who, no matter what other interests they may
have, are anxious to acquaint themselves with
varied and cultural activities, such as music, danc-
ing, drama, or crafts. A director must be aware
of this need and of its importance in his entire
program. A recreation program should be com-
munity—wide, year-round and have broad appeal,
with the interests and needs of all age groups
recognized. It may not be possible to embark im—
mediately upon a program that is all-inclusive, but
there should be continuous advancement in this
direction.

Of primary importance in setting up a music
and drama program is competent leadership.
Next, ideally, facilities shOuld be attractively and
properly planned and easily accessible, with ade-
quate budget provided for maintenance and oper-
ating costs. However, we often find that we must
make the best of available buildings and facilities.
The thing to remember in this case is that even
with good buildings and adequate supplies, poor
leadership can be the downfall of a program, while
other programs with poor facilities and good
leadership manage to survive.

Special activities in the field of either music or
drama fall into two categories: community activi-
ties, using some professionals, and capable of be-
coming self-supporting, and program carried on
within the playground or recreation center and
financed by the recreation budget.

Drama

There is a little bit of the actor in us all, and
all of us are certainly audience-minded. Plays are
inspirational and educational; plays are recrea-
tional, giving idle hands something to do, taking

 

Mn. Urinolz' is Inner/visor of dancing and mzm'c
for the Syracme, New York, Recreation Department.

DECEMBER 1949

tired minds away from worries. They open magic
doors for all, starting with the child on the play-
ground who can enter “the land of “make-believe”
by acting out stories, a natural outgrowth of the
story hour. Plays created by the children them-
selves—simple skits, pantomimes, and one-act
plays—may be performed very successfully on the
playground, and will give children an opportunity
for using imagination and expressing originality.
Even inexperienced recreation leaders have little
difhculty producing plays of this kind with the aid
of available production books. For older children
and adults, more ambitious plays may be at-
tempted after some preliminary training in pro-
ducing short plays, or if trained leadership in this
field is available.

To the program of informal and formal plays
can be added local talent programs with dramatic
skits, stunts, and the acting out of ballads. A.
number of cities also include a traveling theatre—
a stage on wheels which goes from playground
to playground, carrying properties and actors.
Traveling puppet shows are very popular and ap—
pealing. The puppet theatre can be very simple
in construction, made either from wooden or card-
board boxes. Construction of the puppets them-
selves comprises a fascinating handcraft activity.
No body is required for the hand puppet and the
costume is made large enough to admit the opera-
tor’s hand. For the string marionette, the bodies
are made of soft wood, then dressed, and after
some practice manipulating the strings, plays are
attempted.

Crafts programs are correlated with these
drama programs, aiding with scenery, costumes,
and properties. Festivals and pageants also take
a place of importance in the recreation dramatics
program. These might include May Day festi-
vals, Spring festivals, drama festivals, Christmas
pageants, ice carnivals, or pageants used as closing
events of the playground season. These, too, are
correlated with the activities and phases of the
overall recreation program—crafts, music, danc-
ing, and games.

441

Music

A musical group, aside from being a unique
portion of the recreation program, can also sup-
plement its various other phases. Music giveS de-
light, and enriches any experience with which it is
associated, strengthens morale, makes for a feeling
of sociability, and Opens doors for self—expression.
It embraces all ages and all degrees of skill, from
a rhythm band to a symphony concert group, from
community singing groups to trained choruses.
Also, music is the source of many types of enjoy-
ment—for many there is as deep a satisfaction in
listening as there is in creating. Discussion of the
music program can be divided into vocal and in-
strumental.

V oral—The simplest and most Spontaneous of
musical activities, requiring little 'or no leadership,
is the informal singing group. Next comes com-
munity singing, where a “responsive chord” is
struck in nearly everyone. A good leader is es-
sential and a piano or some musical accompani-
ment helps. W'ith trained leadership, choruses can
be organized among all ages and both sex groups
——for example, a men’s or women’s or mixed
chorus. For these, quartets and other Special
groups can be developed. Recently there has been
a great surge to revive the barber shop quartets.
An organization known as the Society for the
Preservation and Encouragement of Barber Shop
Quartet Singing has organized groups across the
country. Also, industrial recreation programs
have shown a definite trend toward musical as
well as dramatic activities.

Instrumental—Let’s start with the rhythm band.
Those instruments most commonly used are the
drum, triangle, tamborine, cymbals, rhythm sticks,
jungle sticks, wood blockS and bells. (A note to
the crafts-minded—possible additions or substitu-
tionS are horseshoes, or railroad Spikes, for
triangles; round cereal boxes for drums; sand
blocks; and combS with tissue paper to carry
melody hummed on them.) More modern equip-
ment will include a portable phonograph and a
supply of good muSic with marked rhythm. Next
can be developed tonette groups, harmonica hands,
a drum and bugle corps. Concert groups can be
organized from a nucleus of those interested. Of
course, as for the choral groups, trained leader-
ship is essential. It is an activity that will bring
together a cross-section of pe0p1e who probably
would have no other mutual interests. An out-
growth of the music program will be music festi-
vals, band concerts, symphony concerts, operettaS,
and radio programs.

In addition to the vocal and instrumental por-

442

 

Drama is greatly enjoyed as part of program in sev-
enty-five fieldhouses of the Chicago Park District.

tions of the program, music appreciation and
interpretation can be a part of the overall music
picture. Music interpretation provideS a satis-
fying experience for the young, especially Since
it combines music with physical activity. The
listener interprets the muSic in bodily action, re-
Sponding to rhythm and mood—skipping, running,
or swaying. Folk dancing also provides a rich
musical and physical activity experience. Here
dancing, singing, and instrumental music are
combined.

Music appreciation clubS can be organized.
Under guidance, members come to appreciate and
understand the best in music. Stories of com-
posers, operas, pictures illustrating the writer’s
native country, all provide a background that will
enrich listening enjoyment. The recreation depart-
ment should also take advantage of funds avail-
able through the American Federation of Musi-
cians for professional musicians to present con-
certs Sponsored by the department at littleexpense.

To our first question, “For whom is the music
and drama program planned ?” we add another,
“Why iS a music and drama program planned?”
Our answer is a synopsis, for much could be said
on these points.

For whom we ask, and find the answer evident
—for all, from young to old, from the unskilled to
the highly skilled. And why? Does it not seem
logical that the outlet for originality, for self-
expression and interpretation, for activity and
cooperation with others is well-worth planning?
Has it not been seen that the lessons learned in
these activities help uS to appreciate a little more
the “next fellow’s” efforts? “7 hen we realize that
the answer to these questions is yeS, then our
efforts toward a more complete, all-encompassing
program increase a thousandfold.

RECREATION

WW at PM

Santa Wears a Dressl—At least that seems
to be the case in Port Chester, New York, where
Santa Claus answers to the name of Miss Doris
Russell, Superintendent of Recreation there. It
all started when Miss Russell initiated a toy mak—-
ing and repairing project a few years ago. Each
Christmas, since then, she and many enthusiastic
volunteers have been collecting donated toys, re-
pairing and repainting them, and distributing them
to Port Chester youngsters. Last year, she helped
brighten the holiday season for some 500 boys and
girls. Little wonder then that whenever the post
office receives any local mail addressed to the
bearded gent from the North Pole it immediately
sends it on to Lady Claus.

i

Leadership Club—The University of Wiscon-
sin, in Madison, boasts a campus organization—
known as the Recreation Leadership Club——-open
to all students carrying a major or minor in com-
munity leadership in recreation, and to other stu-
dents who indicate a specific interest in profes-
sional aspects of recreation. The dues are one
dollar a year and meetings are held the second
and fourth Tuesdays of each month. The purpose
of the club is to promote good social relationships
among members; to maintain professional contacts
with professional recreation leaders who are active
in the field; to work for continuous improvement
of the recreation curriculum; and to keep abreast
of progress and opportunities in the broad fields
of recreation leadership throughout the world.

To date, it lists among its accomplishments
maintenance of active programs and meetings for
members during the past two years; sponsorship
of a party last March for students from all over
the United States attending the Student Govern-
ment Symposium; as well as cooperation with the
Governor’s Conference on Children and Youth by
offering exhibits and entertainment to the 1,300
delegates who attended the May, 1949 event. In
addition, the club has also co—sponsored, with the
University YMCA and YWCA, a successful
Camp Counselor’s Training Institute on campus.

Its plans for the future are also very ambitious.
Primarily, the Recreation Leadership Club hopes

DECEMBER 1949

 

to continue its prominent position on the Wiscon-
sin campus through the work of its program, mem-
bership, publicity, professional relations, curricu-
lum and campus relations committees.

i

Professionals Pitch In—America’s sandlotters
will be better_trained next year than any time in
history! That statement comes from the National
Baseball Congress which bases its prediction on
the fact that professional baseball will be spon-
soring coaching clinics in over 200 cities in thirty
states, from January 23 to February 4, to train
amateur cOaches—including those from town, in-
dustrial and school teams.

Cooperating with the National Association of
Professional Leagues in this undertaking—4n
which more than 10,000 coaches are slated to
attend—are the sixteen major league clubs, Na~
tional Federation of High School Athletic Asso-
ciations, American Legion Junior Baseball Pro-
gram, National Baseball Congress of America,
American Baseball Congress and National Ama-
teur Baseball Federation. Instructors will include
past and present professional managers, coaches
and players. For additional information, write to
Robert L. Finch, director, National Association of
Professional Leagues,  E. Broad Street, Co-
lumbus, Ohio.

W 5W4;

How many of your friends will be receiv-
ing subscriptions to RECREATION magazine
this Christmas? It’s a wonderful gift to give
and to receive for each month, throughout
the year, RECREATION offers a complete
variety of program suggestions, how-to-do

and play materials, news items, helpful hints
for individual as well as group recreation.
The price is just right, too—only three dol~
lars for a year’s subscription and no tax!
Send in your order now and, while you’re at
it, you can Christmas-gift yourself by re-
newing your own subscription.

443

LOCAL BOARDS

In Park and Recreation Programs

 

PROBLEMS OLD AND NEW OF'LOCAL BOARD MEMBERS

Summary of New Orleans Congress Meeting by Mrs. Stuart LeRoy Anderson

HERE IS AN OLD proverb that says, “\Ve can

let our problems drown us or we can take
them out and give them swimming lessons.” I am
sure that all members of local boards are aware
that their problems are many. But, certainly, on
the part of those attending this National Recrea-
tion Congress, there is a determination that those
problems will not overcome them—rather, that
constructive efforts will be made toward their
effective solution.

In our discussion group five problem questions
relevant to all local boards, whether representative
of large or small p0pu1ation areas, were presented
and were followed by general comments from
different members of the group.

The first question covered the qualities that dis—
tinguished the good board members from the poor
ones. Should a citizen be appointed to the board
because he shows skill or interest in one particular
phase of recreation? Are members appointed
under political pressure apt to prove themselves
outstanding?

It was felt that a good board member would
have these major qualifications: a real dedication
to the cause and principles of sound recreation, a
sympathetic understanding of individuals and
groups participating, and a determination, as
nearly as possible, to bring all phases of recreation
to the citizens of his community. A good board
member will have won the honor and respect of
his community through his leadership and by his
own way of life before he is appointed, and during
his term of ofiice will continue to act so that he

 

Mrs. Andenon it the prerident of the Long Beach
Recreation Commim'on, Long Beach, California.

44-1

will deserve the confidence which the peOple have
placed in him. Certainly a board member should
not promote just one phase of recreation to the
exclusion of others. This would work for com-
petition of interests and would not promote a
harmonious, well-balanced and coordinated pro-
gram. Also, all pressure, if possible, should be
eliminated in the selection of board members. A
member should feel his responsibility to the great
mass of taxpayers and not to any one particular
group.

The second question dealt with the principles
that should guide the board in its relations with
the administrative executive. The general feeling
was that, as a board, it is our obligation to secure
the very best trained, well-qualified person for the
executive position; then respect his judgment and
vision; give him an opportunity to put an aggres-
sive program into action; back him to the limit.

In considering the third problem, “\Vhat inex-
pensive means can be used advantageously to
broaden the recreation viewpoint of board mem-
bers ?” leaders spoke of the great value of a survey
of the local situation being made by an outside
expert. For a nominal fee a consultant can ana-
lyze the community, making a comparison with
other localities, and present a constructive long-
range plan with certain goals toward which the
local board may work in years to come.

Greater cooperation between education and rec-
reation boards and staffs was the subject of the
fourth period of discussion. Certainly the trend
is in the direction of a more coordinated program
between school and municipality. Members of
school boards and superintendents are being
drawn in as members of recreation boards. There

RECREATION

is a cooperative use of the same facilities and per-
sonnel by school and city. This is good manage-
ment and will insure greater benefits from the tax
dollars to the citizens of our communities.

In regard to what board members can do to
foster good public relations for the department,
it was agreed that every board member should
consider himself as an ambassador to carry the
good news of the program, and to promote good
will for it among the citizens. A board member
should accept opportunities to go to groups and
present the recreation program. The press and
interested individuals should be invited, even
urged, to sit in on the board meetings. Hearings

should be allowed individuals and representatives
of groups. Newspaper space for articles and pic—
tures should be sought, keeping in mind that an
informed public is an interested public.

One of our leaders was very enthusiastic and
serious about what he was saying. Just as he was
concluding his remarks, he broke forth with,
“There’s one very important thing,'I must say.
I believe there should be more women on our
boards. The Lord bless the women folks!”

I like that for, sure enough, you can depend on
it that the women folks will not let these problems
drown them—they will just take them out and
give them some good old swimming lessons.

WHAT IS THE PLACE OF CITIZEN BOARDS?

Summary of New Orleans Congress Meeting by Harry S. Wender

I

N OUR ever—changing system of municipal gov-
I ernments, we are constantly being confronted
with the question concerning the relationship of
recreation and park departments to community
management as a whole. On the one hand, it
has been contended that a single executive, unre-
stricted by any administrative or advisory board
or commission will provide the maximum in effi-
ciency of operation and control of recreation pro-
grams and facilities. On the other hand, we find
the persuasive proposition that only through active
participation by lay citizens on administrative or
advisory groups can we expect to establish, main-
tain and extend a comprehensive recreation pro-
gram under a democratic system. It was interest—
ing to note that, at the meeting here, not a single
delegate could support the first suggestion even
on the basis of strict efficiency, for it was the
unanimous opinion of all present that citizen par-
ticipation is a “must”. This is particularly true in
the field of recreation because of its essentially
close relationship to the needs and desires of the
people themselves.

The question was then raised as to the relative
value of administrative boards or commissions
having policy-making and budget-determining

 

Mr. Wender is“ the chairman of the District of
Columbia Recreation Board in Warbiagtoa, D. C.

DECEMBER 1949

powers as against agencies with only advisory
functions. It was the overwhelming consensus of
the group that, although advisory groups can per"-
form valuable work through their recommenda-
tions to those possessing administrative authority,
it has been unquestionably demonstrated that a
better job in recreation can be done where the final
decision can be made by those who make the
recommendations. This is especially true in the
larger communities. The advisory method un-
doubtedly proves satisfactory where no contro—
versial issues arise. When controversies do arise,
however, and when advice is not accepted, then
trouble starts. Friction develops and board mem-
bers are prone to resign in indignation out of a
sense of frustration and helplessness.

Polls taken at various times during our session
were indicative of the kinds of agencies repre—
sented at the Congress. Of twenty-two board or
commission members attending, seventeen were of
the administrative type and five were advisory.
The latter represented cities varying from a popu—
lation of 90,000 in.Roanoke, Virginia, to 550,000
in Kansas City. The balance was composed of
thirty superintendents of local departments, ten
recreation staff leaders, three private agency rep—
resentatives and two professional educators.

In stressing the importance of cooperation be-
tween recreation boards and local boards of

445

education, to insure mutual use of public facilities,
it was brought out that thirty-one communities
represented had local administrative or advisory
boards. Of these, twenty had direct representation
from the board of education while eleven did not.
All maintained close relationship between the two
agencies.

The vast majority of recreation boards are ap-
pointed and work without compensation. Most of
these are administrative. It was concluded that a
strong, appointed, non-compensated, small admin-
istrative board is the most valuable aid to the
promotion and development of adequate recrea—
tion systems. This citation, quoted by our chair-
man from the work of Charles Merriam of the
University of Chicago, epitomized our thinking
on the value of citizen boards versus centralized
administration under a single executive:

“\Ve must seek a balance between expert service
and popular control. In case of doubt, we should
decide in favor of popular control.”

A comparison between boards of education and
recreation indicates a remarkable similarity of
duties and responsibilities, undoubtedly account-
ing for the great preponderance of recreation and
park boards having full administrative authority,
in many instances following the exact pattern of
independent educational boards.

Wherever the recreation board and the adminis-
trative stafi work as a team, the board members
serve as front runners, meeting opposition and
paving the way for successful and efiicient ac-
complishment. The technical staff is relieved of
the final responsibility for making policy, but is
held accountable, without interference from the
citizen board, for carrying out that policy.

The question was raised about those communi-
ties where political machines dominate local gov-
ernment and recreation suffers from negligent and
improper administration. This brings about the
appointment or election of corrupt or incompetent
board members and ofiicers lacking adequate in-
terest in or knowledge of recreation problems and
their solution. It was our unanimous opinion that
our host city, New Orleans, represented an excel-
lent answer to this very real problem in promoting
adequate recreation in a number of cities, large
and small. What has been done in New Orleans
within the last two years under its present en-
lightened administration is indicative of what any
American city can do when the public is aroused
and made aware of its government’s deficiencies.

The opportunity to improve public recreation
remains solely with the electorate, which may have
just as good or just as bad an infiuence on city

446

management as it may desire through its expres—
sion at or away from the ballot box. Those who
avoid participating in politics because of a lack of
interest must be held personally responsible for
what happens, as much as those who pervert our
democratic institutions by violating their sacred
trust as servants of the public.

The qualifications for citizens serving on ad-
ministrative and advisory agencies dealing with
park and recreation matters reveal that, although
in many respects these agencies may be likened
to boards of directors of commercial organizations,
there are several significant qualities which must
be possessed by lay citizens Who wish to serve
their community to advantage. It is not enough
that a man or woman be an intelligent, resourceful
individual of high integrity. These requirements
are basic. Equally important is the desire to per-
form unselfish public service and to give sincere
devotion to a philosophy which dignifies this
special aspect of human relationships and places it
on a par with other fundamental responsibilities
of good government, such as health, safety and
education.

No one can properly serve as a citizen member
of a recreation agency owithout having previously
evidenced some tangible interest in the civic de-
velopment of the community, nor can he or she
adequately judge the temper and desires of the
citizenry without a compassionate interest in its
welfare and well-being. Therefore, it is obvious
that board members must possess all the qualities
of leadership and must at all times command the
respect and support of the community in their
work.

Purely administrative functions of boards in-
clude, in some instances, the selection of all per-
sonnel—although in most cases, only the chief
administrative officer is selected—the determina—
tion of policies, fixing of fees, regulation of
salaries and disbursement of funds. However,
there is a much more important responsibility
which seldom appears in the legislative authority
or executive order spelling out board functions.
Every board member is charged with the responsi-
bility of expanding community knowledge of the
recreation facilities and programs administered by
the board. This public relations function helps
maximum use of what we have to offer without
extravagant waste of public funds and, at the same
time, shows up the inadequacies which warrant
public support for improvement.

It was gratifying to learn that the administra-
tive and advisory boards represented by every

a delegate present invite the public and the press to

RECREATION

their meetings, thereby stimulating interest in and
knowledge of their problems and programs. The
necessity for promoting public interest in the work
and accomplishments of the board, as well as in the
department’s deficiencies, was stressed. And since
appropriations are needed to remedy these defi—
ciencies, the importance of acquainting civic and
business organizations with proposed budgets was
pointed out as an indispensable means of secur-
ing community—wide understanding and support.
These were characterized not as “pressure”
groups, but rather as “interest” groups.

The
Recreation Appeal
LearnAbout

TRAMPOLINING

Intense Participant—Spectator Interest . . .
Founded by NISSEN, Creator and Pio-

neer of America’s First Standard
TRAMPOLINE*

Write for FREE LITERATURE
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

“Big Jump?’ In

7/” . [geareafion $irecfor:

o Are you satisfied that your community
is getting the most out of its recreation
dollar? If not, why not consider

Municipal Recreation Administration

This practical correspondence course is
especially designed for recreation administra-
tors and leaders who are responsible for the

planning and direction of municipal recreation
programs.

Available through either individual or group
enrollments, this course includes _a SIG-page
textbook, individualized lesson instruction, and

certificate Upon satisfactory completion. Entire
cost $35.

(Approved under G. 1. Bill)

For details write

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING
IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION

Conducted since 1934 by

THE INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS' ASSOCIATION
1313 East 60th Street Chicago 37

DECEMBER 1949

 

  
 
  
        
 

1)
tuI‘SI

 

In the final analysis, recreation sells itself by
means of a successfully demonstrated program
which the people want and accept as a rightful
heritage for themselves and their children. The
keystone in any board structure is its public rela—
tions, its contact with the people it represents. If
that keystone is defective, eventual collapse of the
entire structure is inevitable.

(Summaries of other stimulating meetings are
presented in the 1949 Congress Proceedings.
Order now, and catch up with collective thinking
in other areas of recreation work. Price $2.25.)

REMINDER
a . }  
W 

is built by
3k

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 25th St.

Los Angeles 11, Calif.
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. OH.

H...

 

for

Every Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

 I  W
' W W .

- I'll! FIJI/£5? IA! I”! #1510 .’
MANUIAC‘IUIING comuuv - 5!. coats a no.

r

g.

 

447

A NEW REPORT and How to Use It

VER THE PERIOD of the past year and a half, it
0 has been the privilege of the writer to work
with ten other recreation executives from several
sections of the country in formulating a set of
standards for leadership positions in the recreation
field. In its relatively brief period of existence,
recreation leadership has reached a professional
status which necessitates the use of personnel
standards for the maintenance of its proper posi-
tion among the careers of service which are open
to ambitious men and women throughout the land.

In recognition of the need for standards, the
National Recreation Association, through a com-
mittee of recreation executives, published a stand-
ards report in 1929; and in 1935, 1938, and 1944
other committees adjusted the standards to meet
the conditions which existed in those reSpective
periods. The rapid growth and development of
recreation since the close of the last war have
stressed the need for standards which befit the
current trend in the profession.

Personnel Standards in Recreation Leadership
is the result of the deliberation and suggestions of
a representative group of recreation leaders, and
presents not only the ideas of committee members,
but of those with whom they have consulted as to
the duties, qualifications and proper compensation
for positions at different levels in the recreation
field. There was evident, throughout the period of
the committee’s work, an attitude on the part of
each member to work unitedly toward ideals
which would benefit the whole recreation move-
ment. This same attitude, we hope, will be mani-
fested by all recreation workers in the utilization
of the report. After all, such a report and its
recommendations will amount to very little unless
the standards which have been set up are used
for the purpose of advancing the profession.

For the most part, this use will be at the local
level of recreation organization. The executive
should bring it to the attention of the members of
his board or commission. He should make sure
that it is in the hands of the personnel officer,
members of the city council and the mayor or city
manager. It is gratifying to learn that Mayor

448

Stephen H. Mahoney

Morrison of New Orleans, host to the recent Na-
tional Recreation Congress, was so enthusiastic
about Personnel Standards in Recreation Leader-
sh if) that he sent a personal letter in commendation
of it to the mayors of cities throughout thecountry.

The report can also be of much value in the
sphere of public relations. -Every recreation ex-
ecutive knows that an interested and alerted
citizenry is one of his greatest allies and, in the
standards report, he has a potent instrument to
help in securing competent leadership for his de-
partment.

The committee is strongly of the Opinion that
the publication should be widely circulated among
not only local authorities, but those at higher
levels as well. Its use by civil service commissions
and other ofiicials who are responsible for the
classification and selection of recreation personnel
can result not only in improved methods of selec-
tion, but also in placing personnel on a level com-
parable to that on which other municipal em-
ployees are placed. It is interesting to note that
the executive committee of the American Recrea-
tion Society has unanimously approved Personnel
Standards in Recreation Leadership and urges its
wide use. °

The report should be of assistance to the facul-
ties of colleges and other training institutions in
the development of curricula to aid students in
preparation for service in the recreation field.
Above all, it should prove most helpful in pre-
senting to prospective recreation leaders the op—
portunities available, the qualifications required,
the duties involved and the compensation to be
expected.

Members of the Recreation Leadership Standards Com-
mittee include the following suPerintendents or directors of
recreation or parts and recreation: Chairman. Stephen H.
Mahoney. Cambridge. Massachusetts: H. S. Callowhill. Bal—
timore. Maryland: E. D. Caulkins. Westchester County. New
York: Russell Foval. Decatur. Illinois: Chase Hammond.
Muskegon. Michigan: Gearge Hielte. Los Angeles. Califor-
nia: Mrs. Helena 6. Hoyt. Syracuse. New York: Miss Doro-
thea Lensch. Portland. Oregon: F. S. Mathewson. Union
County. New Jersey: Beverly Shetiield. Austin. Texas: Jay
VerLee. Colorado Springs. Colorado.

RECREATION

Lebert H. Weir

1878-1949

EBERT WEIR PASSED away November 13, 1949.
In his death, the park and recreation move-
ments have lost a strong protagonist, a realistic
crusader who has set an example of achievements
which will serve as an inspiration to recreation
leaders throughout the country.

When Howard Braucher invited Lebert Weir,
in 1910, to become the first field secretary em—
ployed by the Playground Association of Amer-
ica, Mr. Weir welcomed the challenge and oppor-
tunity for national service which it opened to him.
His five years of experience as head of the Ju-
venile Court in Cincinnati had convinced him of
the need for adequate public recreation facilities
and activities as one of the necessary preventatives
of juvenile delinquency. As he once stated, “Since
the public had assumed responsibility for the care
of delinquents, I felt it should likewise be the duty
of the public to assume responsibility for doing
those things that would prevent delinquency.”

Lebert Weir’s enthusiasm for recreation and his
exceptional power of interpretation made inevita-
ble a career of distinguished service which has
left an indelible imprint on the national recreation
movement. His love of nature and appreciation of
the place which nature activities play in the life
of man lent power and strength to his special serv-
ice in the field of park recreation. Parks had no
greater friend than_Lebert Weir.

His first service with the Association was in
the Pacific Coast States of California, Washing-
ton and Oregon, helping communities to study
their needs and to initiate and operate effective
year-round programs. Since then, he has helped
scores of communities in every state in the union
with their 'park and recreation problems, and he
has played an important role in planning for the
human use of outstanding park areas.

During World War I he helped a number of
communities to organize their recreation services
for men in the armed forces when on leave. In

 

Chillicothe, Ohio, he successfully strengthened
and enlarged the program, raised a half-million
dollars and set up a model community for recrea-
tion. This center became the national training
center for War Camp Community Service work-
ers, the forerunner of the Chicago training insti-
tutes of the National Recreation Association.

Mr. VVeir’s work included service on a state-
wide, national and international scope. At the re-
quest of Governor John G. \Vinant, then chief
executive of New Hampshire, he made a state—
wide recreation study of that state. He also made
vocational and rural recreation studies in his home
state of Indiana. In recent years he had been
interested in helping to promote and serve state
consultant services in Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois,
Wisconsin and Minnesota, and in the establish-
ment of recreation leadership courses in the insti-
tutions of higher learning in these states.

He has served as consultant to the recreation
advisor to the National Resources Board of the
Federal Government. At the invitation of the
Governor of the Virgin Islands, he made studies
and plans for parks and recreation in that terri-
tory; he also made studies of recreation develop-
ments in Europe. Mr. Weir’s two extensive na-
tion-wide studies of parks and camping are well-
known to park and recreation workers.

Lebert Weir was a member of the American
Recreation Society and was made a Fellow at its
annual meeting in Omaha in- September, 1948.
He was also a Senior Fellow of the American
Institute of Park Executives for many years. In
January, 1949, at the third Annual Recreation
Meeting called by the Governor of Indiana, he
received an “award of recognition of distinguished
service in the field of recreation.” He was again
honored by his native state in October of this
year when the Indiana Municipal Park and Rec-
reation Association presented him with a recog-
nition plaque, in absentia.

m

DECEMBER 1949 ‘

449

Recreation News

Change of Address

HE \VEST COAST office of the National Rec-

reation Association has been moved from Pasa-
dena, California, to Room 424, 607 South Hill
Street, Los Angeles 14. So get out your little
black book and jot down the address.

Here you’ll find sample copies of RECREATION
magazine and NRA books and booklets. Lynn
Rodney, the Association’s district representative
(see page 453), is in and out, and Miss Lulu
Lydell, the office secretary, can put you in touch
with him whenever you need him. She also will
be ready to help you in any other way possible—
to answer inquiries, take orders for materials, and
so on.

Write, phone (Vandike 8382) or visit. Form
the habit of dropping in for a chat when you are
in that part of the country. Y ou’ll be welcome.
The ofiice is at your service!

A Tribute

HE CITY OF Lockport, New York, is planning

to honor Howard Braucher, a native son, for
his contribution to the recreation movement and
his years as president of the National Recreation
Association. At a recent meeting, the Lockport
Park and Shade Tree Commission discussed the
possibility of having some memorial to him in
one of their city playgrounds. It is expected that
Lockport will honor him by naming one of their
playgrounds after him, or will set up a memorial
plaque to him in one of their parks. Born in the

town.of Royalton, 'Mr. Braucher was a graduate
of Lockport High School.

New Volley Ball Guide

YOUR coev or the 1950 Official Volley Ball Rule
Book and Annual Guide is now available.
Edited and published by the United States Volley
Ball Association, it presents detailed information
on tournament results, playing suggestions, rules
for all types of participants, and team pictures.
The price is the same—fifty cents. This year,
order from the U.S.V.B.A. Printer, P. O. Box
109, Berne, Indiana.

National Conference on Family Needs

RECREATION was A major t0pic of discussion at
the National Conference on Appraising Fam-
ily Needs held in St. Paul, Minnesota, in Septem-

450

 

ber. The Conference was sponsored by the St.
Paul Planning and Research Council and other
local agencies to consider the findings of a test
study on community welfare services conducted
by Community Research Associates.

The purpose of the Conference was to discuss
methods by which the data had been gathered, to
appraise the findings, and to provide suggestions
and recommendations for the concluding year of
the project. Sponsors expressed the belief that
the Conference would “pave the way for a new
direction to social planning and a more effective
alignment of the service which American commu-
nities provide for the well-being of their citizens.”

The National Recreation Association was rep-
resented among the 125 delegates who came from
a broad variety of professions. Attention was fo-
cused upon recreation as one of the four chief seg-
ments of family need. The findings of the St. Paul
Study and the Conference discussions revealed the
need for a fundamental appraisal of recreation
facilities and services, and a consideration of ways
in which recreation agencies can cooperate to
serve more adequately families in greatest need.

The St. Paul study also revealed a great mal-
distribution of recreation services by districts of
the city, by ages and by program activities. Very
few of the “multiple-problem” families were served
by recreation agencies and several of the sub-
standard neighborhoods received relatively little
recreation service. A large percentage of individ-
uals participating in the recreation program were
between the ages of live and sixteen, and Sports
predominated in agency programs. Only 17.4 per-
cent of the money spent for recreation in 1946
came from city-county funds, yet 31.9 percent of
the recreation participants were in public pro-
grams. A large percentage of the recreation dol—
lars came from private sources and were spent
by private agencies.

Community Sports
and Athletics

Prepared by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, based upon experience of recrea-

tion authorities throughout the country,

published by A. S. Barnes and Company.
500 pages .......... --$4.00

0mm

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N. Y.

RECREATION

Care of Floors

At the Planning Recreation Areas and Facili-
ties meeting of the industrial section of the 3Ist
National Recreation Congress, the following sug-
gestions were offered regarding floors:
A. For those who wax a maple floor for dancing
and then have to remove the wax for basketball
playing: if the floor is sealed, borax crystals can
be used to take off wax; also, a weak solution of
turpentine can be used.
B. Corn meal is still being used by many as a sub-
stitute for wax.
C. “Sock hops” are held in one company as a
means of preventing damage to basketball floor.
D. Using the same floor for basketball, roller
skating and dancing will soon ruin the average
floor. For such multiple use, asphalt tile flooring
is recommended. (See Congress Proceedings.)

Rubber Quoits

John W. Faust, district representative of the
National Recreation Association, writes from
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania:

“Interesting—rubber quoits-Htwelve ounces,
are a rage here. They were holding a wildly ex-
citing inter-playground tournament. One team of
two little girls, eight and ten years of age, had a
cheering section of eight boys who raised the roof
for them. The city makes the stakeboards. We
shall urge this elsewhere as it is as good for adults
and eliminates the fuss of clay pits, the hazard
of metal quoits. It’s a faster game.”

Fishing with No Water

One of the ideas coming from the Pet Ideas
meeting in New Orleans was offered by a recrea-
tion worker from the west whose identity escapes
us. It seems that there is a lack of water in his
community—that is, water where it is safe for
youngSters to play and where fishing is good.
Therefore, he constructed artificial fish ponds on
each playground, with all different species of
wooden and paper fish that the children—and
adults, too—could hook through the tail. For each
fish caught a prize was given. Both youngsters
and adults became so interested in fishing that the
city fathers decided to do something, if at all
possible, about the purification of the streams, and
thus furnish an opportunity for everyone in the
community to enjoy real fishing and water sports.

Tools for Crafts
Waldo Hainsworth, also district representative
of the National Recreation Association, writes
from Bristol, New Hampshire:

DECEMBER 1949

SUGGESTION

Box

 

“Several months ago, Wink decided that they
should have a crafts program for the children.
He had no tools and no money with which to pur-
chase any. He obtained a Popular Mechanics
magazine and wrote letters to a large number of
manufacturers of all kinds of tools. The purpose
of his letter was to secure prices on rejects. His
story was so convincing—telling of the operation
of the center and the like—that many of the manu—
facturers have sent him complimentary sets of
their products. To date he has a number of power
tool sets, sanding machines, rules, dies, carpentry
tools. I quote from a letter he received from the
vice-president of one manufacturing company:
‘We are very glad, indeed, to donate this material
to the very worthy cause which you have men—
tioned, and no invoice will be rendered.’ When the
shop has been equipped (and it will be a good one
when it is), he plans to have pictures taken of the
children using the tools—sending them to the
various companies who have helped.”

Do You Know

That the Methodist Publishing House, 810
Broadway, Nashville, Tennessee, puts out “World
of Fun” records of the folk games of other
countries? These sell for two dollars and can go a
long way toward helping a group to appreciate
what other people have contributed to the fun of
the world. An accompanying booklet offers in-
structions, listings, general suggestions. The rec-
ords can be obtained from any Methodist Publish-
ing House, and also from other distributors.

Bathhouses
If you’re building a bathhouse for an outdoor
swimming pool, why not use removable partitions
so that the building can serve as a recreation
center during winter? This was done in Yuma,
Arizona and was very successful.

451

  
 
 
  

backstops
to fit YOUR need

  

Whatever your individual basketball
backstop installation problem, Porter
has the answer. You see, Porter has been
oHicial purveyor of basketball backstop
equipment to the nation’s schools, uni-
versities and clubs for years. That’s wh
so many coaches, school superinten -
ents and others who buy and specify
backstops will readil say, "Yes, Porter
is headquarters for basZetball backstops.”
And Porter’s engineering service is
yOurs for the asking . . . to recommend,
without charge or obligation, the edi-
cient, economical way to install basket-
ball backstops in your gymnasium or
stadium . . . But don’t wait until the last
moment—until you are ready to use the
court! Plan ahead—allow sufficient time
for shipping and installation. \Vrite—
now—describing your problem.

     
 
   
   
   
   
   
      
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 

FAN-SHAPED BANKS—Porter can ship
immediately famous Porter all-steel fan-

shaped basketball banks.

mm 121: many tr Ida! Ill-IX ls sum
summit with music: at hm“ b may

     
     
     

   

loin! 212-2 Ian-brats!
In: If slim lasln

      

A neat, rigid Porter installation, meeting a condition
that calls for extended wall bracing. Porter back-

stops not only perform well, but look well. m$zga2r§=u

THE .l. E. ~ CORPORATION
OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

    
  

MANUFAUURERS 0F .PlAYGROiNlD, GYMNASIUM MID SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

M>I< CLIMBING

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGY STRUCTURE

Rea- U. 5. Pat. OH.

452 RECREATION

YNN S. RODNEY loves the West, the open spaces,
L so it was like coming home when he was as-
signed the National Recreation Association’s Pa-
cific Southwest district of California, Nevada,
Utah, Arizona, and New Mexico in July, 1948,
after two years of field work in Michigan, Ohio,
and West Virginia.

“After all,” says Lynn, “my father and grand:
father were born in California; I was born in
Nevada and raised in Idaho and Washington
State. ,This should give me some claim on the
West.” This background and his feeling for the
recreation development of the area will do much
to help future progress in Lynn’s new district.

He moved to Coer d’Alene, Idaho, at an early
age and, finally, to Spokane, Washington, which
he calls his home town. In his high school years,
he developed a keen interest in athletics and other
school affairs and, in addition to participating in
dramatics and club work, was outstanding as a
swimmer, setting a national “Y”, city, Inland
Empire, and college records. It was in 1932 that
he qualified in a Pacific coast swim meet to repre-
sent his area in the final U. S. Olympic tryouts.

After high school Lynn attended Washington
State College, earning in four years both his
bachelor and master of arts degrees in political
science and education. He then accepted a posi—
tion as social science instructor in a small high
school in a rural area along the Columbia River
in Washington State which introduced him to the
fun in teaching. Following progressive educa-
tional procedures, Lynn tied his work to the
principle that you can learn at the same time, and
enjoy it.

In reminiscing he says, “Living and teaching
in a small rural community is an experience I
shall never forget. The fun of teaching, as well as
the fun of salmon fishing with the boys who might
not know their school work but certainly knew
their fishing, are memories not soon forgotten.”

However, his teaching career was cut short for,
after his first year, he was selected as one of the
fifteen outstanding graduate students in the coun-
try and given a scholarship at the Maxwell School
of Citizenship at Syracuse University. The
school’s purpose is to give the highest degree of
training to prospective city managers and a master
of science degree in public administration. Lynn’s
desire to work directly with people, children as
well as adults, prompted him to seek a place in
the recreation field. After completing his work
at Syracuse, therefore, he was awarded one of the
National Recreation Association’s Henry Strong
Dennison Fund apprentice fellowships. He was

DECEMBER 1949

IN

THE

FIELD.”

LYNN S. RODNEY

 

assigned to the Division of Recreation and Com-
munity Activities of the Board of Education in
New York City, his training directed by the As—
sociation and Mark McCloskey, division director.

After the New York experience, Lynn joined
the staff of the Smith Memorial Playground and
Playhouses in Philadelphia. He was made super—
visor of one of the oldest playhouses in the coun-
try, located in East Fairmount Park and provided
for under the wills of Richard and Sarah A. Smith
over fifty years ago. In this position there existed
a close relationship between the playhouse pro-
gram, the Temple University School of Social
Work, and the School of Education.

War clouds on the horizon and the Pearl Har-
bor attack prompted Lynn to volunteer for service
in the U. S. Naval Reserve. There he received a
commission as a deck officer, but an eye defect led
to inactive status. It was only natural, then, for
him to turn to municipal work.

Galveston, Texas, in the throes of wartime ex-
pansion, was looking for a recreation and park
director, one who could take the lead in develop-
ing a program for this war community. Thou-
sands of servicemen in the city and outlying
camps, as well as the thousands of new families
attracted to the war industries and shipyards,
created a serious recreation problem. This was
the job for which Lynn was looking—one with a
challenge.

He took it on when asked, knowing full well

453

OFFICIAL
SUPER RINGER SETS

PITCHING HORSESHOES

The finest pitching horseshoes ever made.
Drop-forged from special carbon steel heat-
treated to prevent chipping or breaking with-
out destroying dead falling qualities.

Write for your catalog Diamond
Pitching Horseshoes and Accessories

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE
COMPANY

4614 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

WORLD’S BEST SOURCE

of authoritative, up-to-date information on the best in camping

CAMPING MAGAZINE, official publication of American
Camping Association, is the one periodical devoted entirely to
the "know-how” of organized camp operation. Its articles cover
the interests of all types of camps: Day camps, resident camps,
church camps, Scout camps, social agency camps, and many others.

Whether your interest is in starting a new camp, serving most
effectively on a camp board, being a staff member of a camp
or improving the operation of your own camp, CAMPING
MAGAZINE is the world’s best source for authoritative, up-to-

date, practical information.

Published monthly, November through June. Subscrip-

In every field of sport II'I Profes-
sional, Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ba." and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schoolst in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MocGregor-Goldsmilh Sports
Equipment is recognised as a hali-
mnri oi quality and unvarying
performance.

WW?” ¢W 1""- 45.1--

CZ‘P'C'WIFATI T4.- PH’O: (‘a

Iv ll

 

 

tions $3.00 per year in U. 3., $3.25 in Canada. Start

your subscription NOW! Let CAMPING MAGAZINE ’3'“!
help you all through busy 1950. Use the handy coupon
at right.

If payment accompanies
order, saving as time
and bookkeeping, we’ll
send you FREE a copy
of Tbe Cam p Director’s
Handbook and Buying
Guide. Offer ex pires
December 31, I949.

 

'— — — — n—’ — — — — — _ _ — — — — — — — — — — — — I— II
I CAMPING MAGAZINE
I 181 CHESTNUT AVENUE, METUCHEN, N. J.

I Please enter my subscription to CAMPING MAGAZINE
| at $3.00 per year.

i N ame ..................................................................................................... -......_.

| Street and No. _________________________ .1 ............................................................. ........

I City”; ................................................... -... Zone.-.............State._....................

I
I D Payment herewith

I Send free Handbook

E] Payment will be sent
on receipt of invoice

RECREATION

What problems lay ahead. He made friends
quickly, received support, and was soon working
on plans for a permanent program. A recreation
and park board was developed; all community
facilities and resources were called upon to work
together in solving a vexing problem; a service—
men’s club program was organized; a youth coun-
cil resulted in teen canteens and a voice for youth
in wartime. Park and city beautification plans
and the, development of community center and
playground programs soon followed, and commu~
nity problems were dealt with through the organ-
ization of a community council, in which all local
agencies had the opportunity to cooperate and to
be heard.

About this time, Houston, Texas, a neighbor-
ing city to the north, had a vacancy for a super-
intendent of recreation. When approached about
this position, Lynn became interested in the chal-
lenge of a program for a metropolis, a city faced
with tremendous growth. Also, Houston was
known for the quality of its recreation program
and its vision. This seemed to offer a chance to
stay put and to develop, through the years, the
expansion of an already fine department. He was
appointed but, before two years had passed, the
city manager, learning of his municipal adminis-
tration training at Syracuse, urged him to take
the examination for the position as city budget
director—a position entailing the preparation and
administration of a large budget for a metropolitan
' city.

“No one was more surprised than I to learn that
I was one of the top three in the exam, but when
asked to take the position, I was floored!” It
was a challenge, a new field, but Lynn turned

down the offer at first. He was won over, how-
ever, when the full scope of the position was pre—
sented to him. “Surely, working with an $11,—
000,000 budget was something to lead to growt .”

Finance work soon led to a teaching assign-
ment at the University of Houston in public fi-
nance and finance management, as well as in eco-
nomics. However, finance work was away from
contact with people. So, when Lynn was asked
to join the staff of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, he gladly accepted and took over the dis-
trict of Michigan, Ohio and West Virginia. Upon
the retirement of George Braden, it was felt that
he was just the man to take over duties in the
western district.

He now makes’his headquarters in the new Los
Angeles office of the NRA. The office secretary,
Miss Lulu Lydell, writes: “Mr. Rodney’s genu-
ine sympathy and understanding make it possible
for recreation leaders to talk freely with him about
their problems. He is ‘Lynn’ to everyone.”

In his work as a district field representative for
the Association, Lynn finds highly useful his ex—
perience as an administrator of local, municipal
recreation departments. Many of the trouble—
some finance problems, which cities and commu-
nities bring to him in connection with the plan—
ning and deve10ping of their recreation and park
service, he finds easier to solve because of his

Work as a city budget director.

Like most recreation people, he loves the out-
of-doors, hiking, camping, swimming, plant lore.
Reading also is one of his favorite leisure-time
pursuits. He and Mrs. Rodney and two children
now make their home in Los Angeles.

 

SOFTBALL RULES for 1950

THE INTERNATIONAL Joint Rules Committee on
Softball, at its September meeting in Little
Rock, Arkansas, made' several changes in the offi-
cial softball rules for 1950.

The committee changed the men’s pitching dis~
tance from forty-three to forty-six feet. The
women’s pitching distance of thirty-five feet
remains the same. The main argument for the
lengthening of the pitching distance was the many
low-hit, no-score games in softball. It was felt
that the change would increase the number of hits
and runs scored.

The rule on stealing (Rule 30, Section 15) was

DECEMBER 1949

also tightened so that, in 1950, a baserunner will
be required to keep contact with his base while
the pitcher has the ball in pitching position and
both feet in contact with the rubber. In other
words, during this interval, the ball will be dead.

Rule 24, Section IO has been deleted, and Sec—
tion II has been added to Rule 23, making the
ball dead when a baserunner is called out for leav—
ing his base too soon.

These are but a few of the new changes. The

complete 1950 rules will soon be available in the
0135mm Softball Rules Book.

455

RECREATIONAL LEADERS

Make a Note of These!

 

 

 

New Publications
ofthe

National Section
on Women's Athletics

(A section of the American Association for
Health, Physical Education, and Recreation)

 

The Official Recreational Games—Volley Ball Guide ............................ --l949-51
The Official Aquatics, Winter Sports and Outing Activities Guide .............. --l949-5l
The Official Basketball Guide .............................................................. --I949-50

Each guide contains official playing rules for girls and women, articles on techniques, teaching,

organization, bibliographies, and certain special features related to the sports covered in the re-
spective books. 50 cents each.

 

One of the most valuable books in our field!

RESEARCH METHODS APPLIED TO HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATICHI

a project of the Research Section of the American Association for Health, Physical Education,
and Recreation

Editorial Committee—CAROLYN and KARL BOOKWALTER, T. K. CURETON, and M. GLADYS SCOTT.

Some chapter titles—Library Research Methods; Historical Research Methods; Photographical and
Cinematographical Research Methods; Test Construction and Analysis; Statistical Prediction and
Causal Analysis; Writing the Research Report.

480 pages. 40 pages of tabular material. 22 illustrations. . . . Price $5.00

Published by

THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION

1201 Sixteenth Street, NW Washington 6, D. C.

456 RECREATION

Crispin Oglebay

HE WHOLE RECREATION movement has suffered a loss
Tin the death of Crispin Oglebay, who died in his home
at Gates Mills, Ohio, on October twenty-third. He was
an outstanding industrialist and philanthropist who, in
addition to extensive business interests, followed a vision
for enriching the lives of people through recreation. This
was evident in many ways, but its expression was clearest
in his devotion to the development of Oglebay Park and
his services to the recreation movement. His primary in-
terest was in people, rather than in places.

Mr. Oglebay was the nephew of Colonel Earl W.
Oglebay, who left his estate to Wheeling, West Virginia, for a park. One of the principal
interests of CriSpin Oglebay’s life was to make this property a great medium of recrea-
tional and cultural service to the people of the entire region. In this he was eminently
successful. He not only gave generously to it each year—his gifts being estimated at over
one-half million dollars during the last twenty years-—but, more important, he also gave
his own personal attention and leadership. He conferred with leaders, read reports, fol—
lowed up suggestions, and visited other communities having similar facilities. He wel-
comed visits from experts, had studies made, and enlisted the interest of community
leaders.

Mr. Oglebay was an honorary member of the National Recreation Association and,
for a number of years up to the time of his death, served as the Association’s sponsor
in Cleveland, Ohio. He closely followed the work of the NRA and regularly visited the
headquarters office to discuss Association problems and to keep in touch with develop-
ments throughout the country.

CriSpin Oglebay not only contributed to the National Recreation Association, but gladly
asked friends and industrial companies to do the same. He was enthusiastic in his tribute
to the Association for its influence and help in the development of Oglebay Park.

No note about Crispin Oglebay is complete without mentioning his special feeling for
beauty. He worked constantly to increase facilities that would give people opportunities
to enjoy nature and sense beauty not only in gardens and woodlands, but also in music,
drama, crafts and other creative arts. i

We gladly record here recognition of his great contribution to local and national rec-
reation, and the joy that he himself experienced in working for more recreation for more
people throughout the land.

 

DECEMBER 1949 457

 
   
 

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

Charting Group Progress, Saul Bernstein. Associa-
,_tion Press, 291 Broadway, New York. $.73.

Beach and Pool, September 1949
New Aquatic Sport Born in Y.M.C.A., Leo P.

Majcher.

Design and Construction Features of a Modern
Pool Project, Dunlap and Company.

Questions and Answers for Swimming Pool Oper-

ators.

Scholastic Coach, September 1949
Your Gymnasium Plant, Don Cash Seaton._
Complete Intra-Mural Program, Ray Smallmg.

Journal of Health, Physical Education and Recrea-
tion, September 1949 _
Competition: NS\VA Faces the Issue, Alice Shrlver.

Park Maintenance, September 1949
Underfoot Areas, the Problems of their Neglect,
\Villiam Beaudry.
Annual Buyers’ Guide.

Child Study, Fall 1949
Looking at the Comics—1949.

 

   

555
HAN DBALLS

YOUR
CHAMPIONSHIP

BALL

 

The SEAMLESS 555 is true and fast—has more life

Books Received

 

American Planning and Civic Annual, edited by Har-
lean James. American Planning and Civic Asso-
ciation, 901 Union Trust Building, \Vashington,

D. C. $3.00.

Big Elephant, The, Kathryn and Bryon Jackson. Si-
mon and Schuster, New York. $1.00.

Boating Is Fun, Ruth Brindze. Dodd, Mead and Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

Boy’s Book of Body Building, Stanley Pashko. Green-
berg Publisher, New York. $2.50.

Campaigning for Members, Herman A. Sarachan.
Association Press, New York. $3.00.

Craft of Ceramics, The, Geza de Vegh and Alber

Mandi. D. Van Nostrand and Company, New
York. $4.75.

Education for Safe Living—Second Edition, Stack,
Seibrecht and Elkow. Prentice-Hall Publishers,
New York. $5.00.

Football for the Beginner, George R. Staten. Educa-
tional Publishers. St. Louis, Missouri. $2.00.

Golden Books of Words, The, Jane \Verner. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $1.00.

Handbooks of European National Dances—Dances of
Czechoslovakia, Mila Lubinova; Dances of Swe-
den, Erik Salven; Dances of the Netherlands,
Elise van der Ven-ten Bensel; Dances of Switz-
erland, Louise \Vitzig. Chanticleer Press, New
York. $1.25 each.

Horseman’s Companion, The, Margaret Cabell Self.
A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $3.00.

How to Make Braided Rugs, Dorothy Altpeter.
Harper and Brothers, New York. $1.50.

North American Fresh Water Sport Fish, Lou S.
Caine. A. S. Barnes, New York. $5.00.

 

“MUST” FILMS

on Community Recreation

PLAYTOWN, U.S.A., 2 1/2 reels, in color. How

social service and other voluntary agencies
can invest wisely in a complete community
recreation program. Rental $2.00

LEADERS FOR LEISURE, 2 reels, in color.

Demonstrates the importance of adequate
leadership in community recreation programs.

Rental $2.50
Carefully Selected

FEATURES 0 CARTOONS o COMEDIES

Only the Best in

SPORTS o CAM-PING o NATURE STUDY
ARTS and CRAFTS

and staying power than any other ball made! Used
in all major tournaments, including the National
AA.U. Used in millions of match games. Preferred
everywhere by champions—the most critical judges
of quality and value! (For the faster practice hand-
ball, specify SEAMLESS 556.)

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877

Widest Selection of FREE FILMS
TRAVEL 0 SCIENCE o VOCATIONS
Many in Color

Write today for the new I949 - I950 Catalog of
SELECTED MOTION PICTURES

ASSOCIATION

 

{A It?" "
156 So ls l“ yr.- the

If,‘ 15:0,,-

FILMS'

- _, .
' a T’nd' A-x’

a5 atu «H‘I it

 

NEW HAVEN 3. CONN" U. S. A.

458

 

 

Power Skiing Illustrated

By Tyler Micoleau. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $2.95.

AcCORDING TO THE author, preparation of this
book was motivated by a belief that skiing
fundamentally is very simple, and that people can
learn quickly given the proper set of objectives.
Says he, “When you drive an automobile and you
come to a corner, you turn the wheel. It is as
simple as that.”

Beginning with equipment and the reasons for
each element of its design, and continuing with
first principles of walking, climbing and turning,
he explains each step in the light of its relation
and use to the art as a whole, proceeding through
intermediate steps to the final analysis of motions
that combine into powerful and advanced skiing.
Having had experience as a commercial artist,
Mr. Micoleau falls back on his brush and presents
each point graphically, with a minimum of written
explanation. Such visual aid and simplicity of
presentation not only add to the attractiveness of
the book, but are bound to be extremely helpful
in understanding his analysis of techniques. It
should make an excellent gift for the novice, ex—
pert, leader or instructor.

Social Group Work Practice

By Gertrude Wilson and Gladys Ryland. Hough-
ton Miffiin Company, Boston, Massachusetts.

$5.00.

THIS. BOOK is designed mainly for the use of stu-
dents in social group work, and is arranged
in four parts—Social Group Work Method, Anal—
ysis of Program Media, Records of Social Group

DECEMBER 1949

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

Work Practice, Supervisory and Administrative
Processes. Its references to recreation emphasize
its value in personal and social adjustment. The
section on Analysis of Program Media should be
of particular interest to all recreation workers as
it effectively reviews the theories of play and in—
cludes stimulating analyses of the values of dif—
ferent types of activities in games, rhythmics,
dance, music, dramatics, arts, crafts, the out-of-
doors and trips.

Handbook of Homecraf t

Prepared by Standards Committee, Girls Clubs of
America, Inc., 115 State Street, Springfield,
Massachusetts. Price not listed.

E VERY RECREATION LEADER who works with girls
knows how difficult it is to find specific pro-
gram material, particularly the “feminine” type
stressing natural home interests, but making them
fun instead of chores. The Standards Committee
has done a good job in sifting actual, tested pro-
grams and developing an interesting recreation
program that is fun, yet teaches definite skills in
cooking, sewing, housekeeping, and the arts of
etiquette and hosPitality.

This book is very carefully outlined, with spe-
cific details for procedure, equipment and objec—
tives, and arranged for both younger and older
girls. It’s divided into seven sections—the first,
a general one on objectives and leadership and the
second, on the general subject of homemaking
through play. Other sections deal specifically with
kitchen and dining room activities such as cook-
ing, buying, table etiquette, being a good hostess,
housekeeping, and activities for mother’s aide, in-

459

cluding child care and home nursing.

The Standards Committee also did a fine job
of preparing interesting program material. We
wish it had been equally careful in preparing the
extensive bibliographies given at the end of each
section. \Ve note that some of the references are
now out of print, publishers’ addresses have some-
times changed, some prices have changed and no
zone numbers are given. \Ve know from long
experience that the preparation of bibliographies
is an onerous job. A very careful checking, how-
ever, is well—worth the effort because the resulting
accuracy gives greater value to the manual.

Child’s Book of Magic

By Hassoldt Davis. Greenberg Publisher, New
York. $1.00.

TdIS Is A simply written, perfectly fascinating

little book of magic for children. One out of
every few pages carries an intriguing cellophane
envelope containing the materials necessary for a
particular piece of hokus-pokus. It will provide
a delightful little' piece of fun for any child, group
of youngsters, or children’s party. They will love
trying these things themselves. Ideal for Christ-
mas stockings!

Play Ideas

WITHIN THE RANGE of a modest pocketbook
are four gay little books by Caroline Horo-
witz, which have just been published by the Hart
Publishing Company, New York, selling for fifty
cents each. These are overflowing with play ideas
which are an answer to the old, familiar cry,
“Mama, what shall I do now?” Also, they con-
tain many a helpful suggestion for leaders of
young children. Titles are: Eighty Play Ideas—
for boys and girls from four to seven; Play Alone
Fun, six to nine; Forty Rainy-Day Games, nine

to fourteen; Sixty Swell Playmates Games, seven
to thirteen.

Personal Adjustment in Old Age

By Ruth Shonle Cavan, Ernest W. Burgess, Rob-

ert. J. Havighurst and Herbert Goldhamer.
Science Research Associates, Chicago, Illinois.

$2.93.

QLTHOUGH THIS BOOK is addressed primarily to
research workers tO stimulate studies in the
field of old age adjustment, it includes material

460

which should be familiar to all workers with older
adults. It presents a background of old age—
problems and adjustments—that is extremely use-
ful in meeting the recreation and leisure-time
needs of the aged, as well as the more commonly
accepted needs for economic security and physical

health.

 

‘

STATEMENT OF THE O\VNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC., REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF
CONGRESS OF AUGUST 24, 1912, AS AMENDED BY
THE ACTS OF MARCH 3, 1933, AND JULY 2, 1946, of
RECREATION, published monthly 'at New York, N. Y., for Octo-
her 1, 1949.

STATE or New YORK

COUNTY or New YORK

33.
Before me, a Notary Public, in and for the State and county

aforesaid, personally appeared Ross J Scnwanrz, who having
been duly sworn according to law, deposes and says that she is
the Business Manager of the Rscnmrrox, and that the following
is, to the best of her knowledge and belief, a true statement of the
ownership, management (and if a daily, weekly, semiweekly or
triweekly newspaper, the circulation), etc., of the aforesaid publi-
cation for the date shown in the above caption, required by the
act of August 24, 1912, as amended by the acts of March 3, 1933,
and July 2, 1946 (section 537, Postal Laws and Regulations),
printed on the reverse of this form, to wit:

1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, man-
aging editor, and business managers are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

Editor: None.

Managing Editor: Dorothy Donaldson, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

Business Manager: Rose J. Schwartz, 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.

2. That the owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and
address must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
and addresses of stackholders owning or holding one per cent or
more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corporatior, the
names and addresses of the individual owners must be given. If
owned by a firm, company, or other unincorporated concern, its
name and address, as well as those of each individual member,

must be given.) I _ . _' v
National Recreatmn Assocration, Inc., 313 Fourth Avenue, New

York 10, N. Y. .

F. \V. H. Adams. New York, N. Y.; F. Gregg Bemts, Boston
Mass.; Edward C. Bench, Englewood, N. J.; Mrs. Robert “'oods
Bliss, \Vasbington, D. C.; Mrs. Arthur G. Cummer, Jacksonvil'e,
Fla.; \Vi'liam H. Davis, New York, N. Y.; Harry P. Davisou,
New York, N. Y.; Robert Garrett, Baltimore, Md.; Robert Grant,
3rd, Oyster Bay, L. I., N. Y.; Austin E. Griffiths, Seattle, \Vash.;
Mrs. Norman Harrower, Fitchhurg, Mass; Mrs. Charles V.
Hickox, Michigan City, Ind.; Mrs. John D. Jameson, Bellport,
N. Y.; Susan M. Lee, New York, N. Y.; Otto T. Mal‘ery,
Philadelphia, Pa.; Carl E. Milliken. Augusta, Me; Mrs. Ogden
L. Mills, \Voodbury, N. Y.; Paul Moore, Jr., Jersey Citv, N. J.;
Mrs. Sigmurd Stern. San Francisco, Calif.; Grant Titsworth,
Noroton, Conn.; J. C. \Valsh, Yonkers, N. Y.; Frederick M.
\Varburg, New York, N. Y. ,

3. That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding one per cent or more of total amount
of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none,
so state.)

None (non-profit organization.)

4. That the two paragraphs next above. giving the names of the
owners, stockholders. and security holders, if any, contain not
only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear
upon the books of the company but also, ‘in cases where the stock-
holder or security holder appears upon the books of the company
as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the
person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given;
also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing
afliant’s fu'l knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and
conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do
not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock
and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner;
and this ahiant has no reason to believe that any other person,
association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect 
the said stock. bonds, or other securities than as so stated by her.

5. That the average number of copies of each issue of this pub-
lication sold or distributed, through the mails or otherwise, to
paid subscribers during the twelve months preceding the date
shown above is (This information is required from daily, weekly,
semiweekly, and triweekly newspapers only.)

Ross J. SCHWARTZ,

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 8th day of September,
1949.

MIRIAM S. C. DOCHTERMANX,
Notary Public. Nassau County.
Nassau County Clerk’s No. 99. Certificate Filed in New York

‘ County. Clerk’s No. 230. Register's No. 27-D-0. My Commission

expires March 30, 1950.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

December, January and February

Miss Hulda Coleman, Superintendent of Schools,

Hayneville, Alabama
Lowndes County.

January 2-6

Miss Dorothy Hixon, Home Demonstration Agent,
Dallas County. "

Selma, Alabama
January 9-13

Mobile, Alabama J. K. Clark, Superintendent of Schools, Mobile
January 16—20 County.

Harold Hayes, Superintendent of Schools, DeKalb
County.

Fort Payne, Alabama
January 23-27

Dr. Harvey D. Nelson, Superintendent of City
Schools, Huntsville County.

Huntsville, Alabama
January 30-February 3

Pacilic Southwest Schedule being developed.

February 13-March 24

Miss Hallie L. Hughes, State Girls’ 4-H Club

Agent, Agricultural Extension Service.

Blacksburg, Virginia
December 5-9

Tallahassee, Florida
December 12 and 13

Miss Mary E. Keown, State Home Demonstration
Agent, Agricultural Extension Service.

\Vinston-Salem, North Carolina Loyd B. Hathaway, Superintendent of Recreation.
January 30-February 3

Pacilic Northwest
February 27-May 22

Schedule being developed.

Miss Ruth E. Swezey, Executive Director, Play-
ground and Recreation Association of Wyoming
Valley.

\Vilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
January 23-February 3

Raleigh, North Carolina
February 20-March 3

Ralph J. Andrews, Director, Parks and Recreation
Department.

Wat other@hristmas present

can you name that":

 

.. comes in so handy on rainy days

 

. . . never wears out . . . keeps increasing in value

. . . is so quick and easy to buy   is SC.) M
. . . pleases everyone on your list . n 0)
AND . . . gives itself all over again aVIngS d:;!0)'}0nds
(with interest) ten years later?
" Automatic Saving is m Saving

a
E Confribm‘ed by fhis magazine in co-operafion with fhe Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

