Henry Pfeiffer Library

MacMurray College
Ja aksonville. 111111019

OCT 1 4 1949

 

Contents

 

October 1949

Wealth of the Nations in Recreation Why Arts and Crafts in Recreation?
Living (editorial), Howard Brauclier. 317 Barbara M. Douglass . . . . . . . . . . . . . 342
Starting Recreation in the Small Some Good Craft Ideas . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344

Community, William G. Robinson. . . 318 HOW to Start a Bicycle Club in Schools

The Greatest Sight of All, Bob Kresge. . 320 and colleges’ ROIand C‘ Geist ' ° ' ' ' ' ' 346
T1 ' '° ° . . . . . .
Jr. Sponsmen,s Club, teatrical Senices and Supplies 34-9
J08 Wilson and JOhn Lilly - - - - - - - - - 321 Make Up a Party at Your House . . . . . . . 351
Contribute to Freedom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323 Community Grandmas of 1949,
Teresa V. Larson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

Carnival Caravan, Barbara Chapin. . . . . 324
Doll House Contest, A. J. Gatawakas. . . 353

Recreation for the Orthopedically

. . Patterns for Play, Karen Newton . . . . . . 355
Handicapped Child, Susan Samuel. . . 326
In the Field . . . Ralpli Van Fleet . . . . . . 357
An Operetta in the Making,
Dora E. Dodge _ . _ . I _ I _ _ _ _ . . I . _ _ _ 328 Phoebe Hall Valentine Retires . . . . . . . . 361
J. Edward Hargraves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363

The Place of Recreation in the Total Col-
lege Curriculum . . . Part II—A Rec-
reation Director Looks at the Social
Values of College Recreation,

Regular Features

Charles F. Weckwerth . . . . . . . . . . . . 331 ‘Vorld at Play ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' 348
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 364
“A New World” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 333
Recreation Training Institutes. . . .
A Youth Center—that Flourishes, InSide BaCk Cover
A. J. Schara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335

PICTURE CREDITS: We are indebted for photographs to:
Amos-Terry Photo Service, Santa Barbara, California, center

The  Hour . . . . _ . . . . _ _ _ . . , ,  spread; U. S. Forest Service, page 3346; Pontiac, Michigan,

Department of Recreation, page 351.

The F FA Contributes to Rural
. Tackled! What a blow to the team and
Recreation, Taylor Dodson . . . . . . . - . 338 to the fans on the sidelines who were

rooting for that winning touchdown.
Photograph by Ewing Galloway, New

Fun for All, Earl B. Amos . . . . . . . . . . . 340 “'1‘ C“?-

 

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post Office in New York, New York, under Ad of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Secrion 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyigbt 1949. by the National Recreaion Auociim'on. Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.

VOLUME FOR'IY-THREE, NUMBER SEVEN PRICE 35 CENTS -® 18

Recreation
OCTOBER 1949

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

Wealth of the Nations

in Recreation Living

WHEN ADAM SMITH wrote at length on the wealth of the nations, he

referred to the necessity of building up the physical resources of the
nations of the world so that there may be adequate standards of nutrition,
shelter, clothing. There is no question, of course, of the need for such
endeavor. This necessity, however, is only part of the picture. Savages in
the wilderness are unwilling to go on fishing and hunting and piling up
material goods that are doomed to spoil when they know that they can
make no possible use of these goods. The savages turn then to the painting
of their canoes and their paddles and to the development of their various
art forms. Sometimes savages have been wiser than civilized peoples in

their recognition of the value of the daily satisfactions of living.

If we are to think in terms of the piling up of real wealth, we cannot
neglect recreation and the arts. We cannot neglect what gives most per-
manent and enduring satisfaction to the souls of men. Music and sport
and art, as well as religion, have been sought by almost all men everywhere.
If we wish to pile up enduring wealth, we must provide for such growth
of the human spirit throughout the world that the spare moments always
shall have possibility of being filled with richly satisfying action or medi-
tation.

It is the task of the recreation movement throughout the world to help
build up the accumulated wealth of culture, so that life itself may be recog-

nized to have much greater values, so that life will not be held so cheap.

HOWARD BRAUCHER.

317

 

TARTING RECREATION in

0 THE HISTORY of the recreation movement in the
small community is following, to a great extent,
the pattern of growth of the larger cities a genera—
tion ago. A community starts with a summer out—
door program for children and youth, with funds
raised from contributions, and with leadership
wherever it can be found. Progress to a year-
round, varied program with skilled direction varies,
but some guides to success are becoming evident.
Two small communities in Michigan serve as ex-
amples of this growth.

Flushing is a two thousand population village,
ten miles from Flint. Prior to the summer of 1948
it had—for some years, at least—no planned rec-
reation program of any kind. A year ago, how-
ever, it raised a thousand dollars for summer ac-
tivities from individuals and civic organizations.
The program was so successful that the responsi-
ble group was confident of enough support to in-
sure a start on a year—round program this year.

Fremont, somewhat larger—3,100 people—is the
business center for a considerable area; is in a
farming and resort part of the state. It has had a
summer program and a teen—age center under part—
time leadership for some years. Last spring the
city government and the board of education

318

I5

adopted a joint plan for a comprehensive recrea-
tion program, raised a budget of $8,500 and em-
ployed a full-time, year-round executive.

The developments in these two small cities came
in a similar manner. In both, a civic group—a
Community Council in Flushing and a Chamber of
Commerce in F remont—decided that recreation
was an immediate community need. They both
consulted recreation authorities, including direc-
tors of programs in Flint and Grand Rapids, 3
district representative of the National Recreation
Association, and a consultant on recreation from
the state university. As a result of suggestions re-
ceived, a recreation survey committee was ap-
pointed in each case, with membership widely rep—
resentative of civic groups and interests. Facts
were gathered by this committee on forms fur-
nished by the recreation consultant. These were
supplemented and interpreted by him, and rec-
ommendations discussed and adopted. Then the
survey was presented at a community meeting,
called by the sponsoring group, and mimeographed
copies were distributed. An action committee was
appointed to put the immediate recommendations
into effect.

All this is quite different from what happens in

RECREATION

many small communities preliminary to a recrea-
tion program. Frequently there is a jump into
action without any study of local conditions and
needs. A civic group gets the idea from a neigh-
boring city, from a visiting speaker or an article
in a national publication, votes some funds or
conducts a campaign to raise a budget, and an-
nounces a program. This occurs about two weeks
before school closes and someone from the school
staff, or a college boy or girl home for the summer,
is employed. With no study or planning, with in-
experienced leadership, with a program that apes
the larger city, the village has too often jumped
from talk into action without careful study and
planning. That under such conditions there should
have been any results is a tribute to the local
need for recreation activities and to the innate
resourcefulness of our small communities.
Experience in meeting community needs through
cooperative planning and action is becoming more
common, and resources for recreational guidance
for smaller places are increasing. Indiana,‘ Ver—

reason for this is that as widely representative a
group as possible should be in on the planning.
Too many very valuable and authoritative surveys
are gathering dust without results because they
were made by an individual for a small group and
presented to the community on a “take it or leave
it” basis. Often it has been left.

On the other hand, a recreation survey involves
many people. The listing and description of all
possible facilities, public and private, schools,
churches and lodges; the programs of all existing
school clubs, church clubs, organizations for boys
and girls, hobby clubs, athletic groups and social
clubs; a questionnaire as to things people are doing
or want to do in their leisure time—all this is in-
formation of aqnature that can be secured by vol-
unteers. Suchrvolunteers have been found in high
school civic classes, chamber of commerce com—
mittees and parent—teacher associations.

There should also be community-wide participa-
tion in the conclusions and recdmmen'dations as
well as in the securing of facts. A local study

we SMALL COMM UNITY”

mont, California, North Carolina, Minnesota,
Illinois, Michigan, Colorado, Georgia, Missouri,
Nebraska, New York, Pennsylvania, Tennessee,
Virginia, and Washington are among the states
which now have field service available to help such
developments; in fact, some kind of assistance is
available to communities in thirty-five states. This
does not include the services which are available
to communities in more than forty states through
extension workers from the state colleges of agri-
culture. Also, in many states there are state recre-
ation associations whose members are willing to
advise communities establishing a recreation pro-
gram.

Any program involving public support, whether
from tax funds or from subscription, presupposes
a more or less vocal and informed group of adherf
ents. An individual may first realize the possibili-
ties of a community-wide recreation program, but
until he secures the backing of an existing civic
organization or develops a new supporting organi-
zation through his own efforts, there is little likeli—
hood of progress. This stage of “talk,” or arous-
ing interest in the subject as a whole, should pre-
cede the stage of study, or application of general
principles to the specific local conditions. The

OCTOBER 1949

committee with a membership representative of
every social, racial and economic strata, as well as
of public boards and of every civic group, should
have an opportunity to discuss and advise on the
recommendations, their relative importance and
their practicability. Committee members’ respon-
sibilities should include their own approval as in-
dividuals, and their interpretation for the groups
they represent. Such study and recommendations
in the small community need not be a time-con—
suming task. Two or three months should be long
enough and the results in understanding and sup—
port amply justify the undertaking.

Only after this study is completed does the cam-
paign for action take place. This may well be in
the hands of another committee. Some people may
be willing and helpful on a study committee who

 

William G. Robinson

Arrirtant in commnnity organization, with the
Unit/entity of Michigan Extemion Service.

319

would have no weight in appealing for funds to a
governing body or a large contributor—and vice
versa. The study should recommend a method of
support which will depend on the legal status of
recreation, which varies to some extent from state
to state. There are enough successful examples of
county programs meeting rural and small commu-
nity demands to warrant a consideration of this
plan—Jefferson County, Kentucky, and Bay Coun-
ty, Michigan, are examples. There are examples
of township support of recreation. Support from
boards of education and village governments is
most frequent.

The job of the action or campaign committee is
to capitalize on the interest and support aroused
during the talk and study stages to secure the nec-
essary facilities and financing. The type of cam-
paign may vary from the mere appearance of a
committee before the village council or board of
education to a house to house canvas for funds.

The final step in the organization of the recrea-
tion program is the employment of leadership. In
the size community under consideration this can
seldom be full-time, year-round. As a part-time
responsibility, it often ties up with the school, and
usually someone from the school staff is employed.
It is taken for granted, of course, that he is ca-
pable of conducting a recreation program. All too
often, however, he knows nothing of the activities
for children, has no appreciation of the place of

crafts, music and nature lore in a program, has
had no experience in securing volunteers or in
community organization. And, of course, he does
not draw the younger children or girls into activi-
ties. In such a situation, therefore, and until the
teacher—training institutions include such material
in their courses, this training will need to be given
“on the job.” Some states are beginning to con-
duct state-wide recreation conferences or institutes
under the leadership of trained recreation workers.

Every effort should be made to have both a man
and a woman on the staff, however small the com-
munity. Only in this way will both boys and girls
and the various age groups be reached.

In general, that recreation program is best
rooted and grows most surely which starts with
comparatively few activities, is well planned and
adapted to the community, determined upon after
study and interpretation, and under mature leader-
ship, combining personality and experience. In
the small community the start is usually a summer
program. But it doesn’t stop there. In Fremont,
mentioned in the beginning of this article, the
summer program has grown to a well-rounded,
year-round program. In Flushing a committee is
at work planning to extend its successful sum-
mer activities to the rest of the year. So the pat-
tern unfolds—talk, study, action; a few activities
well done; a gradual development until all ages
have recreation opportunities at all times.

We We SW a; )4?!

I’ve seen the Taj Mahal at night
“then moonlight bathed its towers,
I’ve seen a field whose acres vast
\Vere blanketed with flowers,

I’ve seen the finest thoroughbreds
In turfdom’s greatest race,

But what is there that can compare
\Vith a youngster’s smiling face.

The world may have its vistas grand,
Its sky with shades so rare,

The sort of views that artists skilled
\Vould reproduce with care,

But who has yet, with mortal hand.
Been able to replace

The precious light that’s in the sight
Of a youngster’s smiling face.

Now let us all be thankful

 

For lakes and fields and woods,

Enjoy, protect, and cherish them

As God believes we should,

But we can be most thankful

That He should have the grace

To give to us a greater trust,

A youngster’s smiling face.
—B013 KRESGE, Superintendent of
Recreation in Butler, Pennsylvania.

 

JOE WILSON

and
JOHN LILLY
/ ’1',- e‘o:-.-.‘.’ ( =-
/ "“s
/ / l \ ..
// y
/ I / I

0 To ROUND out the recreation program in Lodi,
California, and to instill in our youngsters an
appreciation for game and other people’s prop—
erty, the Lodi Junior Sportsmen’s Club was or—
ganized. Within a year, the club has grown from
the original twenty-two members to over two hun-
dred. The first meeting was held in a small room
in the Congregational Church. As our member-
ship increased, we moved first to an elementary
school little theatre, and finally to a larger audi-
torium in the city.

The general aims of the club are to instill in
the members good sportsmanship, to help prevent
juvenile delinquency, and to teach the boys gen-
eral safety measures intended to reduce the num-
ber of hunting and fishing accidents. More di-
rectly, the club aims to provide activity for boys
not eligible for competitive sports—including boys
who are physically handicapped.

Another aim is to provide leadership during the
age in which they need additional active physical
outlets. Between ten and fifteen years of age, boys
are most likely to get into trouble. Having out-

 

Mr. Lilly i: the superintendent of recreation in the
city of Stockton, California, which is located near Lodi.

OCTOBER 1949

 

SPORTSMEN’S CLUB

grown childhood games, their active minds are
constantly open to new ideas. They also require
more of a physical outlet than they do at an older
age. The close relationship between the director
and the boys makes this latter aim more possible.
Closely associated with these aims is the attempt
to bring about a friendlier relationship between
boys of varying social and racial status.

The membership requirements are very simple.
The club is open to all boys between the ages of
ten and fifteen. It was necessary to exclude older
boys interested in joining the club as the variance
in their ages diversifies interest and abilities.

There are no membership fees or dues, as very
little expense is incurred by the club’s activities.
The club is sponsored by the recreation depart-
ment and, therefore, has access to city and school
facilities. The club treasury is maintained through
special fund-raising activities, such as paper drives
and scrap collections. The money is then used for
necessary equipment such as toboggans, traps and
fishing equipment to be loaned to members.

The club is divided into sections of from ten
to fifteen boys. Section memberships are deter-
mined mainly by the areas in which the boys live.
Allowances are made for close friends to be in the

321

 

same section. Younger boys are placed in sections
where they receive the guidance of older boys.
Members name the sections after animals, such

as Foxes, Skunks, Rattlesnakes and Buffaloes.

During the summer months, each section goes
on a field trip one day of the week. On Saturday,
the entire group takes to the fields. Meetings are
held twice monthly, on alternate Thursday nights,
featuring either a guest speaker or hunting and
fishing movies. The films are obtained through
publicity departments of 'various states and Can-
ada. At these meetings, current club activities are
discussed and plans made for future events. An
important and interesting report of each meeting
concerns the activities of the Senior Sportsmen’s
Club.

One of the major objectives of the club is to
qualify each member in first aid. Special meetings
are held at which the boys are taught emergency
precautions and general procedure in first aid. On
a field trip at least every other boy is equipped
with a first aid kit.

Every member is required to learn how to swim.
For those who have not mastered aquatic funda—
mentals, weekly swimming classes are held in the
high school pool. At the present time, less than
five percent of the boys are unable to meet the
swimming requirements, and this minority group
is made up of relatively new members. For the
advanced swimmers life saving techniques are
taught. Other water safety activities include boat-
ing and canoeing lessons given at Lodi Lake Park.

Another major activity of the club is the study
of Indian lore, General information is obtained
from movies shown to the club and from visits to
museums. Frequent trips are made to the numer-
ous local Indian burial grounds. Many of the boys

322

have excellent collections of Indian arrowheads,
spearheads, beads and household utensils.

Nature study also forms an invaluable part of
the club’s activities. On visits to museums and
zoos, the boys see and study historical relics and
learn of the animals which were native to this
area. As a result of these field trips, follow-up
studies are made at meetings, and members collect
bird wings, nests and insects.

VVoodsmanship or pioneering is included in na-
ture study. Boys learn how to determine direc—
tions to avoid getting lost and how to figure out
the time of day. General camping aids are taught,
such as the ways of building fires, cooking meals,
making shelters and bough beds, and good prac-
tices. The boys also study the lore of the woods,
learning to recognize the various animal tracks
and other signs of animal life.

Fishing is one of the most popular and impor-
tant phases of the club program. Prior to taking
organized fishing trips, the boys make a study of
the fish to be found in the area. Instructions are
given on correct techniques in the care and use
of equipment and methods to be followed in catch-
ing various species. The proper care, cleaning and
preservation of fish are also learned. Throughout
the summer months, there are numerous expedi-
tions to the various fishing areas adjacent to the
Lodi area. These include overnight camping trips
to trout streams. Black and striped bass, perch,
crappies, sunfish, catfish and trout are proudly
brought home properly cleaned. Mothers and dads
appreciate this latter accomplishment. In the fu-
ture, it is hoped that some deep sea fishing trips
can be arranged in the San Francisco bay area, to
round out the boys’ experiences.

Summer nights are spent in frog hunting. They
are easy to catch. The boys enjoy the preparation,
cooking and the social and gastronomical satisfac-
tions of a frog’s leg dinner.

Of prime importance, preliminary to taking part
in the club’s hunting activities, is instruction in
general safety precautions and handling of guns.
Various films are shown, demonstrating the care
of guns and the proper methods of hunting. Mem-

5356‘

RECREATION

bers are instructed in safety methods for accident
prevention in connection with the lives of fellow
hunters as well as their own lives. Instructions
are given to the youthful hunters to recognize
types and sizes of animals, so that animals pro-
tected by law will not be unnecessarily destroyed.
They also are advised continually of the necessity
of respecting the farmers’ crops, fences and herds.
Organized hunting trips are held, in which not
more than two members are supervised by one in-—
structor. In this way, the instructor is able to give
his undivided attention to the young hunters.
Trapping is another of the club’s major activi-
ties, and one in which all participate. Along with
trapping techniques, detailed study is made of the
wildlife available in the area, and the correct meth-
od of skinning, preserving, and tanning animal
pelts. Trap lines are set out in the foothills and
are checked twice a week. Members who are un-
able to buy their own traps may borrow them from
the club’s supply. As a rule, two boys work to-
gether as partners on each trap. Probably one of
the greatest thrills is the anticipation of finding a
catch. The boys are as excited over catching a rat
as a fox. Arrangements have been made with a
local taxidermist to have two boys work with

him, thus gaining firsthand, valuable information
on the care of trophies. Boys will work with him
for six month periods so that all will have a chance
to receive this training.

In the eighteen months since its formation, the
Lodi Junior Sportsmen’s Club has received the
wholehearted support of 'the public. Parents, in
particular, are enthusiastic over the opportunity
for their boys to gain knowledge and experience
in woodsmanship. Many parents never had the
opportunity to receive such experience in their own
youth.

In the club we {ind democracy in action. Many
nationalities are represented, including Americans,
Chinese, Japanese, Mexicans and Filipinos. Boys
of widely differing social, racial, and economic
status develop (a close sense of companionship
through their common experiences. The active
young boys, who might be spending their spare
time looking for mischief, are kept so busy and
interested in the activities of the club that they
have no time to become engaged in other. than
healthy and supervised activities. Above all, the
spirit of good sportsmanship, game conservation
and respect for property is instilled in them in
every phase of the program.

 

CONTRIBUTE TO FREEDOM

OU CAN be an important factor in creating a better understanding abroad of
Ythe cultures and ideals of America by regularly sending c0pies of RECREATION
magazine to the United States Information Libraries for distribution in foreign
countries. These libraries—with their open reading rooms and rental services,
which are run very much the same as the public libraries in this country—attempt
to bring to the local people of forty—three countries throughout the world a cross-
section of American printed material in the form of books, magazines, newspapers,

pamphlets, and the like.

Right now, one of the most pressing demands is for more and more good cur—
rent magazines which can be distributed in foreign countries to libraries, schools,
universities, organizations and other places where the interest in all things Arneri-
can seems to mount daily. In a few minutes, and for only a few cents, you can
make a tremendous contribution to the cause of lasting peace. It costs just one
and a half cents for two ounces to send printed matter anywhere on the globe and
magazines need only to be rolled in brown paper, with open ends, and marked
PRINTED MATTER. (Why not take out an additional subscription for this?)

Address your RECREATION package to the United States Information Library
in the countries of your choice from those listed below:

c/o American Embassy at:
Ankara, Turkey

Athens, Greece

Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cairo, Egypt

New Delhi, India

The Hague, Netherlands
London, England

Manila, Philippines
Mexico City, Mexico
Montevideo, Uruguay
Paris, France
Rangoon, Burma
Rome, Italy

Seoul, Korea
Stockholm, Sweden

Warsaw, Poland

c/o American Legation at:

Bern, Switzerland

Budapest, Hungary

c/o American Consulate
General at:

Batavia, Java—Indonesia

Sydney, Australia

 

OCTOBER 1949

323

o TODAY WE too often
tend to sit back and let
events wash over us—a
natural defense with so
much happening, the re-
fusal to be involved. But
it isn’t exciting, nor is it
fun to remain forever the objective observer.

There are many ways of inviting participation,
but two things must be overcome before an indi-
vidual feels happy “taking part.” First, he must
be helped over his fear of making a mistake. Per—
fection has been emphasized until, as Burton James
said, “The ‘cult of the spectator’ appears as one of
the curses of our land, and the simple pleasure and
emotional release derived from the creative spend-
ing of leisure time is frowned On and discarded
because ‘I cannot be as great as a Kreisler’ . . .”
Before you can have virtuoso of any kind you must
have students willng to experiment, to laugh at
themselves and to have the courage to make mis—
takes.

Second, the participant needs some notion of
how to take part. Square dancing looks like great
fun, but you hesitate because you need to know
something about the calls. The real thrill comes,
however, when you have learned enough to try a
lively, difficult square.

We believe that people are happier and healthier
when they have creative interests which they share
with others. It is true that many “culture groups”
fall apart, but this is because they don’t have
enough purpose, and don’t demand enough of their
members. The novelty wears off unless you keep
learning and exploring and gaining in skill and
understanding.

To introduce cultural activities with top-flight
exhibitions and demonstrations, plus the showing
of materials and instruction as to how such activi—

 

Mr'u Chopin, originator and organizer of the Cami-
wl Cara-van, i: a former New York book derr'gner.

324

BARBARA CHAPIN

ties can be developed in your own community, is
the work and purpose of the Carnival Caravan.
This really is a mobile community center, designed
to take creative recreation to rural communities.

The Caravan travels on special trucks which will
set up in your town just as a circus does—giving
local folks, among other things, an opportunity to:
set type at a printing press; watch binding; exam-
ine fine book exhibits; browse; hear story hours,
authors talk, reviews—the Bookbrigade; watch a
play, act in short skits and charades; make up
stories and dramatize them—the Playhouse Story
Book; dance, sing, debate; give recitals; watch
professionals do all these things; hear concerts—-
the Music Hall; see fine exhibits of art, crafts,
industrial design; show their work; try their hand
at weaving, pottery, drawing, painting; watch
demonstrations, chalk talks—the Gallery; see for-
eign films, cartoons, documentary and training
films; hear special records—the Cartoon House.

There are also places for recordings, puppet
shows, strolling musicians; food stands for simple
refreshments, and a play school where you can
park your child with confidence.

The Amateur

Let’s be perfectly honest about one thing—the
amateur and the professional worker will not be
confused. You may pitch a mean curve in sand-
lot baseball, and have the time of your life doing
it, but you don’t expect to be asked to replace Bob
Feller in the big league.

The Carnival Caravan will bring exhibits of the
best work being done to remind you just how ex—
citing and skillful this or that art can be. When
you pick up a lump of clay, you are not expected
to turn’ in a masterpiece, but you should enjoy the
feeling of having some form grow beneath your
fingers. Local work will be shown informally, and
in every town will be found one or two craftsmen
working at high professional standards.

In other words, some of the cultural advantages

RECREATION

 

At Chautauqua children han-
dled sculpture, saw potters work.

available to city dwellers can now be enjoyed by
the rural towns and villages that hang out the wel—
come sign for the caravan. In fact, the idea grew
from a concern for the lack of opportunity afforded
the rural child in the field of cultural learning.

Millions of our young people have never seen a
play, never handled a musical instrument, never
understood how a design is made before it becomes
wall paper, dress material, or any of a hundred
items which can bring into people’s lives beauty
or drabness, depending on their ability to recognize
and understand the fundamental principles of art.
Children, and adults'too, crave excitement. Learn-
ing, if properly presented, and given proper re-
spect, is more exciting than any other discovery
a person can make. People ought to be reminded
of the creative power which lies within each of us.

The Carnival Caravan, with headquarters in
Wellsville, New York, was just a dream three
years ago. Now it has been worked over, sifted,
and studied until it is sound and practical as well
as fun. It was tested last summer at “Carnival
Caravan Day at Chautauqua; A Community Fes—
tival of Creative Recreation.” '

There children handled sculpture, watched pot-
ters do complete pieces, saw wool turn into ma-
terial ; they listened to records, and danced on the
green; they saw a play, and heard a choir. Parents,
coming because it was educational, went back for
their children. Children, following the bright staff
car, truck, troupe cars, and station wagon, went
back to get their grandparents and friends.

The test proved beyond a doubt that such« a
program has immediate appeal. N ow, with its full
organizational plans of cooperation with churches,

OCTOBER 1949

schools, local, state and national groups interested
in civic and agricultural programs; and with youth
groups, and men’s and women’s clubs, and pro-
fessional organizations backing the program in
each locality, continuation of interests is assured
support after the excitement of the caravan itself
fades away.

Work is now in progress for a trial unit which
will lay more stress on the integration of the vari-
ous elements, for cultural training has proved to
be a line model for training in how to live a well—
rounded life. As the program we take into the
town will have balance and relationship, each art
to another, so a town, in planning its program,
should have balance and relationship between the
various elements serving its citizens. When the
test unit is underway, it can serve as a model for
those anxious to see such a program in action.

Needs and Solution

Until then, what can be done? One thing is to
look about your town and see what is- lacking.
Can’t you expand some existing service by a lot of
ingenuity, some time, and a little money? Does
your library want a bookmobile? Does it have a
children’s collection? Maybe, as our town is now
doing, a librarian can write a weekly column for
the newspaper introducing, with humor, books
which are far above the current level of local
reading. What about a story hour?

Do you have art exhibits? Ithaca' had an art
week, and turned the main street into a gallery,
with pictures and groceries side by side. Contests
for window display are good chamber of commerce
material, and also good for young designers who
need encouragement and practice. Does your town
have a well-designed modern house, and if not,
why not? This kind of questioning can stretch
into theatre work, into choirs, into square dancing,
into the youth center—and why so few towns have
a place where good food and dancing are combined
to make a nice social center for the young people.

The Carnival Caravan dons its hat to the im-
mense job already being done in our country. One
example is the square dancing which has suddenly
become so popular, giving thousands in every sec—
tion hours of happiness and relaxation. It didn’t
just happen, though, but lots of people think it
did and are waiting now for something more “to
come along.” We want to take them a “tickler”—
and we are looking forward to the time when we
leave behind us in towns all over the country
youngsters who say, as did one small boy studying
an abstract painting at Chautauqua: “Gee, I never
knew there was anything like that in the world.
I’m going to take a whack at that myself.”

325

Recreation fer the dl'thepedieally Handicapped Child

\
c

A talk by Susan Samuel, Director of Recreation of the New York

Philanthropic League, given at the College of the City of New York

TALK OF this kind should be unnecessary—the
A subject should be recreation for children.
While we don’t have enough recreation facilities,
we do have community centers, settlement houses
and afternoon school playgrounds for the so-called
normal child. It is true that these facilities are not
closed to orthopedically handicapped children, but
what chance have they at these centers? How are
they received by the other children? \Vhat oppor-
tunities do they have, competing with children who
have played in groups for years?

Let me give you a bit of back history on some of
our handicapped boys and girls. Many have spent
years of their young lives in hospitals and conva-
lescent homes. They have had little or no schooling
there. Their participation in group living or in ac-
tive play has too often been limited to such things
as sitting in a wheel chair, sewing, reading, singing
or the like. They have never worked as a unit or
a group. They have never helped in planning or
running a community. At the most formative years
of their adolescence, they are sent home from the
hospitals and convalescent homes, back to their fam-
ilies, their schools and their communities. \Vhat
preparation have they had for this new mode of
living? None!

\Vhat happens? Maladj ustment all around. They
don’t fit in at home; they don’t fit in at school; and
of course, they have no interest in the community.
However, the settlement house looks more inviting
to them than home or school; sounds of activity
burst through the walls; singing, the noise of ham-
mers and children laughing make such welcoming
sounds. How could a child resist? Remember, the
handicapped are anxious to be accepted, anxious to
belong. So the child becomes courageous and enters

326

n

the settlement house—timidly, and with hesitation.

\Vhen questioned as to his likes or dislikes, he
is at a loss. “Are you interested in crafts, art, mu-
sic, dramatics, newspaper writing, debating ?” asks
the worker. “I don’t know. I don’t know what club
I want to belong to,” says the confused child, “but
I want to belong, I want to try.” And so he tries;
but he has not been prepared and, therefore, gets his
first serious setback in his attempt to become a mem-
ber of the community. He does not know how to
work in a group and, because he feels that he has
nothing to oHer to this community, because he is
not readily accepted by the other children, he be-
comes sullen, discouraged, surly and a greater prob-
lem than ever before. How can this be rectified?
\Vhat can be done to help him adjust and make a
place for himself in our so-called normal world?

All children need recreation, need some place to
go where they may have a chance to express them-
selves and to participate in planning and running a
community. This desire is no different in the heart
of the handicapped child. There we all agree. The
New York Philanthropic League, in a small meas-
ure, is trying to do something about this community
problem, and five years ago started a recreation
group for orthopedically handicapped boys and
girls.

Our group, the Carolians, originally started as
an outgrowth of Camp Carola for girls at Spring
Valley, New York. Children are recommended to
us by the New York City Board of Education, or—
ganizations working with the handicapped child,
and hospitals in the city. At the outset, let me make
this point clearly: we do not wish to segregate or-
thopedically handicapped children, but, rather, to
teach them group living; to familiarize them with

RECREATION

activities in the so—called normal community centers.
We want to prepare them!

The Carolians meet on Friday and Saturday af—
ternoons. On Friday, we discuss all topics of the
day and, of course, information for the good and
welfare of the orthopedically handicapped. On Sat—
urdays, 175 to 300 children (depending on the
weather), ag'es six to eighteen, come to our meet—
ings from all parts of the city—Brooklyn, Manhat-
tan, Bronx, Queens, and even Long Island and
Staten Island. '
~ For the first part of the afternoon, members go
to the activity in which they are most interested——
music, dramatics, arts and crafts, dancing or news—
paper work. Our Junior Carolians, ages six to ten,
have their own activities with all forms of recrea—
tion. We have well-trained group leaders for super—
vising each activity; we also have students from
various colleges who receive field work credit for
their work with us. Because we have so little time,
the children work on central themes—called proj-
ects—in each activity. They work together for a
final performance, at which time the entire com-
munity is invited.

For the second half of the afternoon, members
assemble for the reading of the Friday discussion
group minutes, and hold a regular business meeting.
Every Saturday we have different entertainment,
planned by the children with the help of the recre—
ation director. The program consists of a concert,
debate, lecture, amateur afternoon, mental Whoopee,
barn dance, games and so on. Each year the group
elects its own president, vice-president, secretaries
—recording, corresponding and at—home, treasurer
and librarians. They have a regular constitution,
with amendments to fit various needs, and com-
mittees.

In addition, community problems are considered
and, as a result, we have contributed to the Ameri—
can Red Cross, the Urban League, the Sydenham
Hospital Drive, the National Foundation for In—
fantile Paralysis. Lisa Sergio, famous radio com—
mentator, has spoken to the group on the important
role young pe0ple can play in current affairs.

Our activities away from the building include
visits to the planetarium, theatre parties, and the
like. Each season the neWSpaper group plans a tour
of large newspapers in the city. Members are in—
terested in seeing a newspaper in the making, al-
though their own newspaper is mimeographed. In
other words, our program consists of the same ac-
tivities as those in the so—called normal community
center.

When a child of our recreation group has made
sufficient progress and has given indication that he.

OCTOBER 1949

is ready for his neighborhood settlement house, the
head worker there is called upon and given a resume
of the child’s abilities in our group. We suggest
that the orthopedically handicapped child be admit—
ted to the neighborhood settlement. Now the child
is more sure of what he wants to do for himself and
for his community.

We realize that we are crowding a great deal into
a short time, but our results have been good, and
we are hoping, before long, to have a building of
our own and to put our program on a daily basis.

The Motor Service of the American Red Cross
transports our non—ambulatory children twice a
month. In this way, even the child in the wheel
chair has an opportunity to participate in a normal
program. We reach the home—bound child by send—
ing him our monthly newspaper. He may also join
our traveling library, make-a-friend-through-the—
niail. Our visiting committee, comprised of the chil—
dren and staff, visits these youngsters whenever pos—
sible. We also keep in close touch with our mem—
bers confined to hospitals.

There are also monthly staff meetings which the
students attend. Problems of the individual groups,
and of the individual child, are discussed. While, on
Saturdays, we are a recreation group, the “com—
plete” child is always considered, and any special
needs are carefully discussed with our director of
social service during the week. Staff members and
students also may consult with the recreation direc—
tor during the week.

Why do these children come out to our meetings
regularly, learning to use public conveyances ? Why
have parents, schools and community centers been
so profuse in their praise of the job we are doing?

They come because they are getting a chance to
do the things that other children do. Here they find
security, understanding, friendship and a sense of
belonging. Here they become part of a community,
where they may help plan the success of that com-
munity. Therefore, the child’s entire outlook
changes. He is alive; he feels human; he has an in—
terest; and this attitude which gradually comes to
him is carried over to his home and to his school.
He adjusts more readily to problems away from the
group, and participates in all activities. No longer
does the family have to worry about who is to stay
home with Jimmy, or who will take him to the cor-
ner movies. Jimmy has things to do, some place to
go, and now has his own buddies.

Our aim is' to give these children a chance at
growing up and the opportunity to Show that, de—
spite their handicap, they can become useful Amer-
ican: citizens. “ '"

327

A72

OPE RE TTA

in the

MAKING

DORA E. DODGE

 

MOST OF THE year the members of the music
and drama clubs of the \Vorcester Girls
Club take part in these activities for their own
enjoyment, but every spring one well-staged pro-
duction is given for the public. This is the Girls
Club Annual Operetta, which has become so well—
known in \Vorcester, Massachusetts, that tickets
are usually requested before they go on sale, and
often before the name of the operetta has been
announced!

Most people do not realize how many girls
benefit from participation in this performance, for
it is not just a matter of choosing and training a
special cast. As in all activities at the club, every
girl has an equal share in the special training of—
fered in music, dramatics and dancing, and from
fifty to one hundred girls a year take advantage
of this opportunity.

Directors of the music, dramatics and dancing
departments cooperate to acquaint all the girls
with all parts of the production. From October
until January the training is general and, since no
casting is done until the final weeks of rehearsing,
any girl may try for a particular part but must be
familiar with the entire operetta—songs, dances
and spoken lines. Usually two or three complete
casts emerge from the group, with several extras

 

Author 1': executive director, Worcerter Girl: Club.

328

Good Practical Advice

for the very important parts.

In January, when things begin to shape up,
mothers are asked to give their permission for the
girls to participate in the final production, and to
encourage the girls to attend rehearsals regularly
during January, February and the first of March.
The cooperation and interest of the mothers are
very important. \Ve do not want any girl to fail
in school work because she has taken on extra re-
sponsibility, and only the mothers can let us know
of this danger. Also, we do want every girl who
would benefit by the training to have as much en-
couragement as possible from the home.

Costumes for the operetta are no expense to the
girls since the costume room has a supply for the
six operettas in the club repertoire. \Vorn-out cos-
tumes are replenished with the help of a costume
committee, chosen from members and friends of
the board and corporation of the 1Worcester Girls
Club. These members are always present to help
the small actors adjust their costumes before going
on the stage.

This year the club gave a new production, an
adaptation of “Alice in \Vonderland,” so that prac-
tically all costumes were new. About fifty women
volunteered their time, dyeing, cutting and sewing
madly for weeks, under the able direction of the
costume chairman. The wide variety of costumes
—including oysters, lobsters, a turtle and a life—
sized egg—were designed by one talented member.
Over seventy volunteers worked on some part of
the production—tickets, costumes, ushering. Dif-
ferent groups of Worcester women do this each
year, and this service tends to strengthen public
relations for the club.

Since three performances of the operetta are
given, every girl who really enjoys working hard
in any one department has an opportunity to take
a lead in one production, a minor part in another,
and perhaps to sing in the supporting chorus of a
third. This is excellent training in sportsmanship,
as well as in acting. Although the girls meet only
once a week over a five-month period, until final
rehearsal dates are set, there is no loss of interest
among this large group.

The first production of the operetta is free to all
club members. The second production is for the
parents and friends of members, and the third for
board members, their children and friends. A small
admission fee is charged during the last two per-
formances, to cover the expense of costuming and

properties. Anything in excess of costs goes to the
Girls Club Camp Building Fund.

RECREATION

Comes from the Girls Club in Worcester, Massachusetts

Since few operettas are written for the range of
voices which are being trained at the club, each
year the search for new material brings little suc—
cess. Occasionally, the Operetta staff has made very
effective adaptations of famous children’s stories,
such as “Alice in \Vonderland” and “Aladdin’s
Lamp.”

The chorus is the musical backbone of the oper—
etta, as the songs are an integral part of the script.
Its members are chosen for good voices and inter—
est in singing. They receive instruction in vocal
work and timing, as well as in stage work. Many
girls who start training in the chorus hnd they
have ability and try for leads the following year.
During the presentation, the chorus is arranged
in front of the stage to support the actors, much as
the orchestra at a real opera. Members of the
chorus with the most regular attendance are chosen
to be in costume on the stage during some part of
the performance. Last year they appeared as the
fourteen angels who guard Hansel and Gretel
while they sleep in the forest.

\Ve emphasize the importance of the training
given to the operetta chorus group. We believe
that if more mothers realized how much girls profit
from this training, they would be just as interested
in having their daughters attend regularly, as they
attend private music or vocal lessons. We encour-
age those girls whose voices are good to under-
study minor or even major parts, and be ready to
fill in. Others become interested in singing and
enter our music school, where they can have vocal
lessons at a nominal fee. And some new girls enter

  

Humpty Dumpty, shown before his fall, was
part of “Alice in Wonderland” production.
Operetta costumes are made by volunteers.

music school, hoping to become proficient enough
to try for operetta roles after some instruction.

One of our girls sang with the Connecticut
Opera Company before she married, and another
was in the New York cast of “Brigadoon.”

We like most to discover what happens to our
girls who have only ordinary ability but a keen
interest in music. Many of them join the W'orces—
ter Light Opera Company, the Music Festival
Chorus and the Messiah Chorus. “'e are fairly
sure that the majority of these girls would not be
enjoying these wonderful opportunities if they had
not been conditioned in our own operetta chorus
when they were very young.

Besides the training in music, girls cannot help
but gain a certain amount of poise, a knowledge of
stage technique, and the satisfaction of being part
of a Enished production, which calls for real team-
work. Not the least, we believe, is the sense of
sportsmanship, which is as important in putting
on our operetta as in any team game. We never
know what may happen during the last week of
rehearsal—a measles epidemic can cause real
havoc. Yet the show must go on once the tickets
are sold.

Following are the rules set up by the Worcester
Girls Club for the operetta staff:

Policy—The Worcester Girls Club Operetta
must be a cooperative project between the direc—
tors of the music, drama and dancing departments.
The entire planning and production must be done
with these three in equal authority, and with the
executive director or her representative. The plan

should leave each director free to be in charge in
front of the stage while her own groups perform.
Any disagreement or discussion should be taken
up in meetings—not, in any case, before girls in
rehearsal.

Since an operetta is necessarily dependent upon
music and the Girls Club Music School can furnish
good music, plans for this project must consider the
musical possibilities first. Actors must be chosen
with first consideration to what musical ability is
available. Casting should be done with the knowl-
edge and approval of the executive director or her
representative, and any disagreement as to choice
referred to her judgment.

Rehearsalsa—Rehearsal times should be agreed
upon before the club programs are printed, and
the entire year’s plan be complete in September.
After this, no change should be made without the
knowledge and permission of the house director.

The first consideration must always be the health
and welfare of the girls. Intensive rehearsing
which may interfere with school work must be
avoided at all times. Extra rehearsals calling girls
from a distance and necessitating extra bus fares
should be avoided. On stormy days girls must be
rehearsed early. All of these factors should be
taken into account early in the season before winter
weather complicates matters. There must be no
night or Sunday work in the clubhouse requiring
extra hours for the janitor, unless approved by
the executive director.

Scenery and PrOperties—The plan for scenery
and properties should be complete in October, and
the necessary properties used at all rehearsals. If
substitutes are used, they should approximate the
proper size and shape. All stage rehearsals should
be set with scenery or substitute scenery indicating
the correct space to be used for each act.

Costuming*—In the event of a new operetta,
costumes should be planned and started by No-
vember first, with due thought to ages and sizes.
When an Operetta is repeated, costumes should be
started early in January. Extra sewing can be
done by the costume committee and by the Mothers

Club, but the plan for this work must be given to

the house director by January first.

Chorus—The object of the chorus is voice train-
ing for choral support of the cast. The age group—
ing for the chorus should be nine to fourteen years,
and the time of rehearsal should not conHict with
the regular weekly operetta rehearsal.

Cast-——Those taking acting parts should be eleven
years old and over, preferably with choral train-
ing. Occasionally, when a younger child is needed
for a specific part, she may be chosen from the

330

choral group.

Dancing—Chorus dancing should be taught in
all dance classes at the club, and girls who become
proficient selected from the regular groups. Re-
hearsals of dance groups may take place in the
gym on Thursdays when the music and drama
groups are _working in their classrooms. Actors
who are to dance should be trained by special ap-
pointment with the dance director.

Procedure—I. Acquaint girls with the entire
plot before memorizing begins.

2. Work out the action with the cast before as-
signing sections for memorizing. The action and
the feeling of the part must be made more impor-
tant than the words.

3. Divide acts into sections to be learned and
suggest that the girls memorize the whole section,
not just their own lines. They should be prepared
to fill in for any part to keep rehearsals interesting.

4. ‘Work as far as possible only with girls who
have attempted to learn the lines. Never let girls
go on the big stage with papers in their hands.
If this standard is set in the beginning, it will
work.

5. Let all girls who make the effort try out the
parts they particularly want, as well as those as-
signed them, insofar as is possible within the choice
of voice ability agreed upon with the music di-
rector.

The suggested plan of work on the operetta by
months is:

Octobera—Tryouts for speaking and singing,
read operetta, Act I.

November—Act I and Act II, memorizing and
acting.

December—Act I memorized and action well-
organized.

January—Act I reviewed, Act II memorized
and action developed, Act III started.

February—Act I and Act II reviewed, Act III
completed.

March—_Review, concentrated work on weak
spots and staging.

.A monthly meeting of the Operetta staff with the
executive or house director, for understanding the
progress of the project, is important.

 

RECREATION

ThegPlaue of Recreation in the Total College Curriculum

Part 11

A Recreation Director Looks at the

Social Values of College Recreation

 

0 ALL TERMS but two in the
above title are probably clear to most people—the
word “values” and the concept referred to as “rec-
reation.” To me these terms mean as follows:

Values have true meaning for the individual
through maturing experience. They are both qual-
itative and quantitative. Values vary greatly with
each individual as well as among individuals, and
are conditioned up to the moment by many factors.
They are inHuenced by other persons, climate, mo-
tives, pressures, cultural patterns, locale, and so
on. Values are flexible. They are real to some
while imaginary to others. We are familiar with
the phrase “what is one man’s meat is another
man’s poison.” It has been my experience that
values are influenced greatly by one’s basic philoso-
phy. “One’s aim shall exceed one’s grasp—or
what’s a heaven for,” says the poet Browning. “To
have and to hold” became the materialistic code
of many at the turn of the century.

“Two men look through the self same bars,
One sees the mud, the other the stars.”

Values exist for those who seek and find, for
those who look and see. In the last analysis a value
is a personal issue having worth to the individual.
Choice is the determining factor.

Recreation is another term troublesome to many,
its concept so different among persons. Just think
of what recreation might mean to each of these

Mr. Wecéwertb i: Director of Recreation and Camp-
ing, Springfield College, Springfield, Mauac/amettr.

OCTOBER 1949

CHARLES F. WECKWERTH

types of individuals: a business man in his fifties;
a business man in his thirties; a mother of a large
family of six or more children; a mother of a small
family of perhaps one or two children; a minister,
doctor, lawyer, librarian, teacher, serviceman in
uniform. Recreation has a different meaning for
each person. Selected definitions vary thus:
"Life enrichment,” says the Educational Policies
Commission.

“Antithesis of work,” explains Butler.

“Synthesis of work and play,” declares Nash.
“Attitude of mind,” states Menninger.

“Many things to many people,” explains Slavson.

To me recreation is one’s self-expressed choice
of behavior. It is evidenced by one’s attitudes and
actions. It may be active or passive, spontaneous
or planned, consistent or inconsistent. The essence
of satisfaction is in the doing—the participating.
Again choice plays the key role.

Without a wide range of opportunity among the
offerings made available, a college campus presents
little or no choice to each person; hence there will
be little or no recreation potential and consequently
little or no social value. Assuming the college cam—
pus provides a wide range of potential recreation
offerings for participation, what are some of the
more important social values to be obtained? It is
my opinion that there are five highly selected social
values which are essential.

I. Individual Expression. Unlimited opportu—
nity for this is offered through participation in a
recreation program. Status among one’s peers and

331

contemporaries provides for recognition and ac-
ceptance. Individual expression, either as a fol-
lower or leader, is at the very heart of social
morale. Illustrations would include ofiicer capac-
ity, captaincy, chairmanship, committee or team
member, or election to an honor society.

One may subscribe to any one of the many theo-
ries of play or recreation, but individual expres-
sion, in the last analysis, seems to be basic. When
opportunities are provided, the most common be-
ing athletics, sports, and games, which are impor-
tant from teens through twenties, let us remember
that thirty to forty potential years remain for
recreating this important social value in individual
lives. It behooves the college community, there-
fore, to provide a wide variety of interests and
activities to allow for trial and error. The greater
the variety to choose from on the campus, the
greater the opportunity for richer social living
through expressior-t. Potentially rich gold mines
offering the value of expression are: art, arts and
crafts, drama, dance, music, camping and outdoor
living, nature recreation, social occasions, forums
and discussions.

2. Performance. Social value exists in the do-
ing. This is of vital import not only for the train-
ing of the nervous system, but such behavior serves
as basic experience. \Vithout it future experience
and satisfaction would perhaps never take place.

Performance makes for awareness and under-
standing; sensitivity is sharpened. The training of
one’s neural patterns for acuteness further guar-
antees skill. Repeat performances are self-initiated
and disciplined when “doing” opportunities are
provided and promoted. The degree of success or
failure strategically influences the value level for
the participant.

It is the joy of effort which must be discovered.
R. Tait McKenzie, famous sculptor of youth, cre-
ated this living idea in his internationally known
and valued works. The college campus must pro-
vide exploratory “pastures” for enriched living.
Such pastures lead inevitably to keener observa-
(‘tion, investigation. They serve as the “midway,”
the “come on” of the carnival of life. The higher
levels of cultural discovery, enjoyment, and satis-
faction are possible in the environment of the col-
iege campus.

3. Group Experience. The two foregoing values
inevitably lead to a third—the interdependency of,
and the need for, group experience. Man, while a
dominant and aggressive person, by nature is also
a gregarious animal. He seeks and needs recogni-
tion by others. He craves recognition and accept-

332

ance by his peers. He initiates deference to them
and they to him, in group relationships.

The elusive factor for ultimate group success,
including each individual as well as the group 
a whole, is the all important process of inter—action
—not co-action. For example, when we see excel—
lent committee work, we also see inter-action at a
high frequency. It contains self-imposed disciplines
as well as group-imposed disciplines which are
welcomed and carried through. W hen we see poor
committee work, we see little or no inter-action,
but much co-action oi- no action. Superimposed
disciplines become chores rather than challenges.

The college campus must provide a wide variety
of, and opportunities for, the formation and opera-
tion of groups to experience inter-action rather
than co-action or no action. Illustrations of this
are obvious to any teacher or recreation leader
who has experienced genuine group experiences.
Perhaps the greatest value is that out of such an
environment comes the inherent “magic” of the
democratic process—group inter-action emanates
in group decisions.

4. Maturation. \Vhen normal cellular evolution
takes place, we label it the process of maturation.
This, we know, is achieved by two interrelated
phenomena. One we call growth—the other de-
velopment. These reciprocal inseparables, growth
and development, serve next as social values of
recreation participation on the college campus.

\Vhen college campus authorities provide Oppor-
tunities for such outcomes—social values of self-
expression, of doing, of group experience—a nor-
mal evolutionary process of growth and develop—
ment takes place. In a democracy the opportunity
for social growth and development is the privilege
and right of each individual, and of each group.
Such an environment creates the setting in which
each person or group may experience enrichment
and fulfillment. Perhaps this is what the Educa-
tional Policies Commission had in mind when it
defined recreation as “life enrichment.”

Growth and development aid in the upgrading of
one’s personal value levels. It is at this point we
become ‘alive not only among other persons, but
we constantly exhibit an “at homeness” with deep-
er and finer levels for self and societal fulfillment.

5. Environment. The fifth selected social value
centers on a healthy atmosphere. Such an envi—
ronment results in happiness, contentment, camara-
derie, and morale.

It is said that the family that plays together
stays together—a healthy situation. It is my expe-
rience that a singing camp is a happy camp—a
healthy situation. Likewise when a college campus

0

RECREATION

prov1des numerous opportunities for recreation op-
portunities for recreation participation, it is a
healthy situation. Such an atmosphere becomes
what the dramatic director calls the “key of the
scene.” It’s contagious and rightfully so.

In summary, it is important to point out that
the interrelatedness, interdependence, of the live
mentioned social values, reveals the need of all for
recognizing only “whole” relationships. Therefore,
it is important that such values are always within
the grasp of each student on the campus. How—
ever, these values must be captured by the seeker
-——the participant. They cannot be doled out, but
must be earned by both students and administra—
tion. Such environment must first be created and
second conditioned. This is the responsibility not
only of the administration or the student group,
but rather a partnership which must be discovered

____“A New World”

and discerned by both of these groups. These five
selected social values should have high priority
with both faculty and students. It becomes a
“partnership” privilege to plan together. A com-
munity contagious with happiness results.

Behind all this there exists, however, an impor-
tant attitude which must prevail. Such an attitude
may best be illustrated by an old Chinese philoso-
pher, Laotse, who declared:

“A leader is best

When people barely know he exists,

Not so good when people obey and acclaim him,

Worse when they despise him.

Fail to honor people

They fail to honor you -

But of a good “leader, who talks little

\V hen his work is done, his aims fulfilled,

They will say, ‘We did this ourselves’.”

OCTOBER 1949

RECENTLY, WHEN A group of Germans studying recreation methods in this

country visited Vermont, one of them was called upon to address a group of
interested community folks. He was twenty-eight-year-old Max Moser from Stutt-
gardt, who is interested in youth leadership training, cooperative activities between
public and private organizations, and projects in citizenship training.

He said: “Before I do anything my first question is: ‘Is that allowed?’ This is
the habit in our country. And then I feel I am in ‘this country,’ in a new world for
me. We believe a good community life is not possible if all men are so free as they
are here. I see the contrary now—it is possible, really possible. But I have seen,
too, that everybody knows everybody is responsible for the community and for the
freedom.

“I believe I have seen the best example for a good community life. This small
town, Proctor, has all that the people need for a good time. Firstly, this place is
one of the loveliest places which I' know—and I know some places. The marble
industry is known in Europe but the things I saw there are not so here. Proctor
has a community center—a swimming pool, a skating rink, an athletic field, a very
pretty and good library, a high school and a nursery school. With one word—
nothing is missing. All that is clean and the cost so low. Why? It is mostly the
property of the community because it is this community’s own work. Proctor’s
people say: ‘If anything is necessary, well let us work out the best way so that we
can get what we need and—let’s work together!’

“I believe this is the most important impression for my work in Germany and
I am happy that I can see all that with my own eyes. Now, I can bring this idea

to our young people in Germany and I hope we can start together the same work
within our possibilities. Thank you!” '

333

 

One janitor’s headache is prevented by providing
special places in washrooms for marking on walls.

 

Modern coke bar is favorite gathering place for teen-
agers between activities. Below is the powder room.

 

z4¢zaaté€mm

MANI'rowoc, a city of 30,000 population, located
in \Visconsin on the shores of Lake Michigan,
now has one of the iinest youth centers in the Mid-
dle \Vest. It has been ‘in operation for more than
two years and has proved a great asset to our
community.

It all started when, after four years of waiting,
the city voted in its favor and turned over to the
recreation department a remodeled building, newly
painted and decorated, to be furnished and equipped
for the enterprise. Through the generosity of a
group of civic-minded citizens, the city was given
the sum of $5,500 to buy equipment. The City
Council appropriated $11,115 for the center’s op-
erating cost for one year and a similar amount for
each following year.

The cost to the taxpayer is a little over seven
and a half cents per youngster a year. Considering
the fact that one youngster in a reform school
would cost the city forty dollars a month, there
can be no doubt that this program is cheap in the
dollars and cents column. We know there are in-
dividuals who’ll say that the youngsters of our
community are not going to reform school. This
may be true in 999 cases out of a thousand, but
there is always that one which must be taken into
consideration. It is the responsibility of the com-
munity to offer its youth a line program, and it is
the opinion of many citizens that Manitowoc is
doing just that.

Let’s take a look around the building and see
what we have to offer to attract the youngsters—-
what makes them want to Spend their leisure time
at the center. What have we that is the envy of
a large portion of youngsters in the Fox River

Talley, who visit our center on certain occasions?

First of all, the building is most attractive, in-
side and out. Conveniently located near the coke
bar are two spacious windows, in one of which
hangs a large red neon sign which reads, “Youth
Center.” From these teen—agers may easily view
the street below. Chromium and brightly colored
leather furniture blends harmoniously with the
various shades of cocoa-brown paint on the walls.
One of the most attractive features is a series of

Mr. Sahara 1': Manitowoc’: director of regreation.

RECREATION

arresting murals depicting outdoor sport scenes.
In color scheme bright green predominates, and
fluorescent lighting brightens the rooms.

The building has two floors, and on the lower
we find the game rooms. In one of these are two
pool tables and four game tables for checkers,
chess, dominoes and other table games, while in
the other are five ping-pong tables and one shufHe—
board table. These are in constant use the minute
the front door is open and the center in Operation.
There is no charge for any of the games but, be-
cause of the great demand for their use, it was nec—
essary to set a time limit. Use of the pool, ping—
pong and shuffleboard tables is limited to twenty
minutes for any individual. However, this does
not prevent a youngster from signing up for an-
other game with friends later on in the evening,
time permitting.

The game rooms are connected by a large arch-
way where we find a small counter and, in back of
it, the game room attendant. From his vantage
point he can observe what is going on in each of
the rooms. It is his job to supervise and promote
game activity, and he sets up tournament schedules
for girls and boys in checkers, table tennis and
pool. One of the surprises of the entire program is
the great interest shown on the part of the girls in
a pool tournament of their own.

The girls’ powder room is decorated in pastel
colors with a large mirror on one wall. On the
other wall there’s a large, white flower with a sign
painted neatly above it: “If you must smear lip-
stick, smear it here.” This has solved our prob—
lem—in our years of operation there has been no
marking on the walls. Of course, we admit that
the flower must be washed off every week, and has
been repainted several times, but it has solved a
problem which is a janitor’s headache in most
places. The boys’ room, also on the same floor,
has a large football and headgear painted in white
on a dark green wall, on. which they do their mark-
ing.

Upstairs, on the main floor, we find another
type of activity going on. The first room we come
to has a large coke bar with nineteen stools, and
four tables with sixteen chairs. Here the boys and
girls can sit and discuss their problems with others
of their own age—and we find they have a great

OCTOBER 1949

A. J. SCHARA

many problems! At the coke bar they can buy any-
thing from a frankfurter to a fancy sundae, or
even bubble gum. It’s the policy of the depart-
ment to stock everything that a teen-ager’s nickel
can buy. You’ll find a display of fancy balloons
on the back bar.

The room adjoining this serves as a dance floor.
It is about thirty by sixty feet. Music for dancing
comes from a juke box—not the regular type
found in most places, but the recording type oper-
ated from a central location in the city, and offer-
ing a selection of 1,500 or more records. It was
found that this has a decided advantage over the
twelve or twenty-four selection type.

One corner of this room is the reading corner,
well-lighted, with a table and comfortable chairs.
Many hours are spent here by the teen-agers who
like to read. Latest magazines are donated by local
newsstands. Also to be found are copies of the
local daily paper and a Milwaukee daily paper, both
read by many of the youngsters.

In regard to personnel, in addition to the man
in charge of the game rooms we have a general
supervisor and a woman who operates the coke
bar. A janitor works part-time, cleaning the place
after every closing hour and cleaning and waxing
the floors once a week.

During the summer an orchestra plays for dances
on Friday nights. These are free and all teen-
agers are invited to attend. The music is furnished
without charge by a program set up by the Amer-
ican Federatidn of Musicians’ Union, and arranged
for in cooperation with the Manitowoc Musicians’
Union. The dances attract a large number of teen-
agers and keep up the attendance during the sum-
mer months.

‘General average attendance for the last two years
has been over. 5,000 per month. Membership cards
are used by the youngsters, costing a dollar per
year for the fifteen to eighteen year olds, and fifty
cents per year for the twelve to fifteen year olds.
The center is open seven days a week at regular
hours: Monday through Thursday, and Sunday,‘
three to five pm. and six to ten p.m.; Friday and
Saturday, three to five p.m., six to eleven-thirty pm.

It is our belief that Manitowoc has come a long
way in the right direction in helping solve its local
youth problem.

335

 

ACTIVE GABIES

Circle Poison—Passing some object hand-to-
hand around the circle, the players try to avoid
being caught with it in their possession when the
whistle is blown or the music stops. If a person is
caught, he is penalized. The first time he is caught
he must raise his right hand and keep it raised
for the rest of the game. If caught twice, he must
raise his right foot and keep it up for the remainder
of the game. If caught three times, he must raise
his left hand and keep it in this position until the
game is finished—when the object is passed to him.

Tagging the Black Cat’s Tail—This game di-
vides the guests into two lines of equal length.
Each player must keep his hands on the shoulders
of the person in front of him during the game,
while the leader of each “black cat” attempts to
tag the “tail,” or last in line, of the other. Both
“black cats” try in every way to prevent their
tails from being tagged—twisting and whirling,
but never breaking the line. Every time that any
part of the cat breaks away from the line, the ro-
tation is reversed, so that the tail becomes the
leader. Every time one cat succeeds in tagging
the other, the leader goes to the tail of the line.
The first cat to finish the rotation process wins.

Goblin Relays—At one end of the room, on
two chairs, place a bowl of beans, an apple and a
dull table knife. Two sides line up behind these
and, at the word GO, each leader puts an apple on
his head and five beans on the knife, which he must
carry to a table at the other end of the room. If he
drops any beans he must stop and put them back
on the knife. \Vhen he has made the journey
safely, he runs back with the apple and knife,
handing them to the next person in line, who re—
peats the process. ‘

Cat Race—Divide the group into two teams.
Give one team a black paper cat pasted on a large
paper board, and the other an orange cat, also
mounted. Neither cat has a tail, for the hidden
segments of orange and black tails are hidden
about the house or room. On signal, members of
each team start looking for these. They may pick
up only one segment at a time and take it to the
team leader, who pastes it on the. cat. The team

336

with the longest tail on its cat in five minutes is
the winner.

Witch’s Sweeping Contest—The party group
is divided into two teams. Two children’s brooms
are used to “sweep” two small pumpkins to the
opposite end of the room and back to the starting
line. This is done by every person in line, and the
side to finish first is the winner.

Halloween Ten Pins—Ten corncobs mounted
on cardboard bases so that they stand upright, or
ten apples‘with tripod bases of matches, can be
used for this game. An apple or an orange serves
as the ball, and each person has three chances at
knocking the pins down. For adults, try ginger
ale bottles for pins and a cabbage for the ball.

Spook Seat-u—Players are seated in a close cir—
cle with one vacant seat and one player, IT, in the
center. The object of the game is for IT to occupy
the vacant chair. Players try to prevent this by
sliding around the circle from right to left, keep-
ing the empty chair moving rapidly around the cir-
cle. The player who permits IT to obtain the seat
takes over his role.

Bag Boxing—Have on hand a number of paper
bags large enough to fit loosely over the head.
Place a bag on the head of each of the contestants,
extending down to his ears. At a given signal they
box with open hands, or rolled newspapers, at-
tempting to knock each other’s hats off. They are
not permitted to touch their own hats.

QUIET GAMES

Shadow Partners—Boys and girls are divided
into separate groups and put in adjoining rooms.
The boys’ room is darkened and the girls then
walk in front of a sheet. The boys pick their part-
ners from the shadows on the sheet.

Doughnut Race—Doughnuts are strung on a
heavy cord all the way across the room. At a sig-
nal, each player starts eating one of the doughnuts.
However, he must keep his hands behind his back
and not use them. He must be very careful in bit-
ing the doughnut, for if he bites into the hole it
will fall off the cord. Prizes are given to those who
finish without dropping any of their doughnuts.

RECREATION

 

0 Halloween means activity—and lots of
it—to young and older children alike,
but they need a chance to catch their
“second wind” once in a while during an
evening’s round of happenings. There-
fore, along with your plans to include
lots of active games in your party pro-

gram, so that your youngsters can “let
off steam,” don’t forget to include a few
quiet games to provide those necessary
moments of relaxation. The games listed
below are among the many to help keep
the boys and girls “be-witched” on this
October thirty-first.

Witch’s Yarn—Unwind a ball of yarn or twine,
tie in written fortune every two feet. Rewind, add-
ing extra twine so that paper doesn’t show. Host
tosses ball to guest, who unwinds it until he comes
to the first paper. He takes it off and throws ball
to someone else. Continue this until each guest has
a fortune, then read them aloud.

Old Witch Is Dead—A mirth-provoking game,
this starts with the group gathered in a circle. The
leader begins with the announcement, “The old
witch is dead.” The person at his left asks, “How
did she die P” “With a cast in her eye,” replies the
leader, making the appropriate grimace. The sec-
ond player then makes the same announcement to
the third, and the rhyme continues until everyone
is squinting his eye. The second time around the
leader replies, “With a cast in her eye and her face
all awry,” screwing up his face. When all have re-
peated this, he adds the last gesture, “And her foot
in the sky.” The laughable attempt to hold this
last position until the circle is completed usually
breaks up the game.

Double Handcuff—Fasten a string two or three
feet long to the wrists of one person, using slip
knots to fasten the ends about the wrists. Then
tie, with a slip knot, one end of another string to
the wrist of a second person. Loop the loose end
of this string around the length of string tied to
the wrists of the first player. Finally, with a slip

OCTOBER 1949

 

GAMES FOR HALLOWEEN

knot again, fasten the loose end of the string about
the untied wrist of the second player. The two per-
sons are then told to separate themselves without
untying any knots, breaking the string, or slipping
their hands through the loops around their wrists.

Solution is that one person takes hold of the
string connecting his partner’s hands, slips it un-
der the string around his own wrist and out over
his own hand.

Witch’s Broom-—Decide on the number of
straws you think are in a broom. Place this num-
ber on a card, and hide it semewhere. Ask the
players to guess the number of straws in the broom.
When the guessing is over bring out the number,
giving the prize to the person with the closest
answer.

Ghost Story—The players sit in a circle near
the leader, who tells a story about cats, bats, owls,
ghosts and witches. When the word cats is men-
tioned all the players howl. At the word bats, they
squeak. Owls make them hoot, witches start them
cackling, and the word ghost brings forth loud
groans. Any player who fails to make the proper
sound is dropped from the game, until there is a
winner. The story may be a nonsense story which
rambles on and on, frequently using the above
words.

Peanut in the Pumpkin—Toss peanuts into a
hollowed-out pumpkin. The standing line should
be about eight or ten feet away from the pumpkin,
and each person is given fifteen peanuts to throw.
Turns are taken, with each player throwing live
nuts at one time. Score is based on the number
landing in the pumpkin, and prizes are awarded.

Copy Cats—One guest is sent out of the room
and a leader is chosen. Everyone does as the leader
does—scratching wrists, cradling arms, stroking
chins, and so forth, and changing actions immedi-
ately when he changes. If the person who has re-
turned to the room detects the leader correctly, the
latter becomes “it.”

 

Some of the games used above are taken from: For a He H41-
loween, Charlotte, North Carolina. Recreation Department; Hal owes”,
Alameda. California. Recreation Department.

337

THE  CHN’I‘RIBUTES T0

HE FUTURE FARMERS of America is a national
T“ organization of farm boys who are studying
vocational agriculture in high school. As such it
is an integral part of the school curriculum. It is
founded upon the principle of learning to do by
doing, and its members learn to conduct meetings,
to speak in public, to buy and sell cooperatively,
and to carry on many other activities of social and
civic value. It further includes recreation, service,
thrift, cooperation, leadership, citizenship, and es-
tablishment in farming as its basic building stones.

There are state associations and a national or-
ganization, but the local chapters which make up
the state groups are the real seats of activity. At
the chapter level, led by vocational agriculture
teachers, boys are performing noteworthy service
to the future of farming and to the enrichment of
farm life. Every member carries on a supervised
farm practice program which includes such things
as care of field crops and livestock, home improve-
ment projects, reforestation, wild life conservation,
soil conservation, and soil and forest improvement
projects. Many chapters have done work such as
restocking of fish ponds, lakes, and rivers. A num-
ber also own wildlife preserves, and several chap-
ters have school forests, some of them on land
which originally belonged to the state.

Every local chapter holds periodic meetings, and
each state holds annual conventions. These meet-
ings are largely business in nature, but some pro—
vision is always made to include a form of recrea-
tion, such as group singing, instrumental music and
stunts. The state conventions usually extend over
a  of several days, and opportunities are pro—
vided for swimming, hiking, movies and games
when business meetings are not in session.

It is traditional for the local chapters to hold a
father-son banquet each year, at which time the

Mr. Dodxon, now the program director of White
Lake Camp, war an active FFA member for years.

\

338

parents are invited to the school and entertained
for the night. A program of music, singing, and
dancing is usually arranged. Other social events
frequently conducted by the FF A boys are cook-
outs, swimming parties, hot dog roasts, watermelon
feasts, corn shuckings, and square dances. Many
chapters have their own string bands and are justly
proud of their musicians when they perform at
local and state conventions. Also, local chapters
and state associations frequently pay the expenses
of their bands to the national conventions.

The National F F A Camp, which was established
mainly to provide a place for chapters to stay when
they visit \Vashington, D.C., is located on U. S.
Highway N o. I about nine miles below Alexandria,
Virginia, by Dodge Run Creek. Facilities here in—
clude a residence for the camp manager, a barracks
building with seventy-six bunks, and a building
containing a kitchen and a dining room. Space is
provided for chapter members to pitch tents if they
bring them. Since facilities are limited, only FF A
boys and their advisors can be accommodated.

Outdoor recreation activities include softball,
horseshoes, volleyball and similar sports; hikes on
scenic trails; visits to historic places. George
\Vashington’s grist mill is located near the camp
and is maintained and kept open to the public by
the FFA. A fee of fifty cents a day is charged each
person staying at the camp, to pay for sleeping,
cooking and shower accommodations. Many boys
come from all parts of the United States to take
advantage of their own national camp.

Nineteen state associations have state camps.
Some of these are poorly equipped and maintained,
but others have very good buildings and equipment.
Georgia has a well-organized camp, owned by the
boys, as do several other states. Virginia has been
very successful with its coeducational camp where
the Future Farmers of Virginia cooperate in con-
ducting the camp with their sister organization,
the Future Homemakers of America. Ohio’s state

¢

RECREATION

RURAL RECREATIIIN

camp is maintained in cooperation with the De-
partment of Conservation, and specialists in conser-
vation give appropriate instruction covering tree
identification, bird hikes, wild flowers, conserva-
tion of forests and other resources, first aid, swim-
ming, and boating. Ample opportunity is provided
for participation in a well-rounded program of
games, sports and crafts.

In Florida they have an agreement with the
Florida Forest Service which permits the FF‘A to
use the Forest Service State Camp during the
summer months. The Forest Service offers a free
two-week camping period to boys from each FFA
chapter in the state who have proved the best in
forestry. This period is devoted to instruction in
fire controlling, planting, care for seedlings, thin-
ning, turpentine production, cutting timber, and
other subjects, and also to recreation.

North Carolina owns two camps valued at over
$100,000. Under the guidance of R. J'. Peeler, the
state executive secretary, the Future Farmers of
North Carolina, the “Young Tar Heel Farmers”
as they call themselves, have well developed these
camps and their summer programs. The two camps
offer contrasting opportunities for recreation while
maintaining a similar program of competitive
games such as softball, volleyball, basketball, and
swimming. f

One camp is located at White Lake, a large na-
tural lake which offers opportunities for fishing,
sailing, rowing, swimming, water skiing, aqua—
planing, and other related activities. In addition,
the White Lake Camp has two outdoor ovens
which can be used for picnic groups on week-ends.
The campers also enjoy hiking, dancing, singing,
movies, and speedboat rides. Each Thursday they
make the sixty—mile trip to Carolina Beach for a
day of fun in the salt water.

Contrast the flat sands of the East to the moun-
tains of the “fest, and you have a picture of the
transition from North Carolina’s White Lake, with

OCTOBER ‘1949

O The Future Farmers of America, or-
ganized in 1928 in Blacksburg, Virginia,
has grown to include forty-seven states,
Hawaii and Puerto Rico. A national con-
vention is held every year in Kansas City,
Missouri, at the time of the American
Royal Livestock Show. The delegates at-
tending these conventions represent dif-

ferent state associations.

 

TAYLOR DODSON

its crystal clear water, to the Tom Browne FFA
Camp in the Great Smoky Mountains. Here the
boys are within hiking distance of many, and in
driving distance of all, of the scenic attractions of
the area. Pisgah National Forest, Smoky Moun-
tains National Park, the Cherokee Indian Reserva-
tion, Chimney Rock, Lake Lure, and the scenic
Skyline Drive which connects the Shenandoah Val-
ley with the Great Smokies, are among the well-
known areas which :these campers can see and en—
joy during their  Add the hikes through pri-
meval forests, swimming, athletic contests, fishing
in the cold clear mountain streams, square dancing,
campfire sings, the fellowship of 150 other boys,
plenty of wholesome food, and the result is an un-
forgettable experience that‘ is enjoyed by about
I, 500 North Carolina FFA lioys each summer.
The attendance at the White Lake Camp is about
3,000 each summer. Membership in the FFA en-
titles every boy who wants it to a week at these
camps for only elevenudolla'rsjiIt’s no wonder that
the organization cannot meet the demand for
camping Space. The FFA Association in North
Carolina is justly proud of its camping program,
and is making plans for improving and increasing
its facilities. "

We can be proud of the more than 240,000 Fu-
ture Farmers of America who have'farm assets of
$30,000,000. All this, and the average FFA boy
is only seventeen years of age!

339

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

o The Santa Barbara Civic I
Located in the heart of the city,
reation Commission, it is the hu‘
the year 1948 it played host to
tendance of about 11,300. Thes
ning from small private parties ‘
The building consists of foul
most any type of meeting, from
two lounges—a beautifully dec
pe0ple, complete with a founta
one of the best dance floors av;
the main building are the gymn:
court on the roof—and the Re
musical groups who might tend
Many of the daily activities 5
co-sponsored with the adult edi
The center also serves as the h
come to Santa Barbara, includ
It is headquarters for the a:
group of teen-agers who help plz
ties. These include the operati:
classes and trips. The council is

clubs, and by putting on radio 1
tion campaign of their own. Aft:
to the city to be administered by 1
the direction of C. C. Christens«
Louise Lowery, Managing Supei

Log-5e Loire": "Hr-nag "no “In:
CTN dun-'0' D" I: IN" "'

I476

renter truly warrants its name.
hnd supervised by the City Rec-
}:ity recreation program. During
pple for an average monthly at—
lke up 206 separate groups, run-
!lic gatherings in the auditorium.
:ing rooms—all adaptable to al-
iridge socials and club meetings;
for adults, and one for young
vision. A large auditorium has
seats 1,000 people. Adjacent to
iplete with showers and a tennis
inter Cottage, used by noisy or
other gatherings.

[v the recreation department are
gram of the city school system.
i for the many conventions that
Llifornia Recreation Conference.
the Youth Council, an elected
I: and carry out their own activi-
Eountain, dances, plays, dancing
' one year by popular vote.

:d by the city in 1944, following
parked this effort by addressing
.1 “Work Day,” and a subscrip-
hase of the center, it was deeded
ion commission. It now is under
irector of Recreation, and Miss

11'

"l
"3::I‘.-.
' "PH-n, v...
‘V-‘oihuzvs-
" ' .1-

N
I ~' and C. C. Christensnn‘

I": {w the coming month.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Why ARTS and CRAFTS .11] Recreation?

I AN CANNOT LIVE by bread alone. Along with
D physical needs comes the desire for beauty.
This is one of the basic reasons why we need arts
and crafts to enrich a recreation program.

Administrators realize this need in a well-
rounded program, but many citizens do not yet
recognize this necessity of a cultural aspect in a
heretofore strictly athletic recreation program.
This is apparent when we study annual reports
from recreation departments throughout the United
States, and find many offering only athletics. If
you are contemplating the introduction of arts and
crafts into your program, first it may be necessary
to sell the public on the need for doing this.

Anticipate the arguments against such a pro-
gram before they arise, in order to be able to give
convincing answers. One objection might be: “But
we don’t want to make artists or craftsmen of our
children; we just want them to have a good time.”
They will have a good time. Nothing gives greater
satisfaction than the creation of a good piece of
work. This bolsters the ego of a sports-shy per-
son and starts a process of growth and develop-
ment in the direction of doing the best and know-
ing why. We should never strive for perfection in
an arts and crafts program if this will, in any way,
kill the joy of making things. Skill will always de-
velop as our program grows.

Probably one of the most pertinent objections
will be: “Our budget is limited; we cannot afford
the necessary tools and materials.” A very fine
arts and crafts program can be conducted with
little or no budget. People are resourceful. En-

Barbam Douglam 2'5 mpervimr of art: and craft: of
the Syracme, New York, Recreation C ommim'on.

342

BARBARA M. DOUGLASS

courage them to carry this resourcefulness to the
limit by using all the things around home that they
think of as scraps. Scrap materials are also avail-
able throughout any community. For example, a
saw mill or lumber company will probably be glad
to give you sawdust or scrap lumber. From man-
ufacturers we have salvaged scrap metal, wire,
film, and so on. This material has greatly sup—
plemented our program because we charge no fee
for arts and crafts. Then, if we look about us, na-
ture provides innumerable materials for wonderful
art projects. For instance, clay asit comes from
the ground is quite adequate for modeling, and
twigs can be used for making many things.

Tools are secondary to materials and they, too,
can be made of substitutes. Scraps of pressed wood
can be filed and shaped into desirable molds for
metal craft. Also, it is not necessary to have a
well-equipped craft building to carry on a fine pro—
gram. The only essentials are water, table space,
good light and storage space. Because our winter
craft program is conducted in public schools, we
find it’s often necessary to hold classes in hallways
or locker rooms. We supply worktables and
benches and a chest for supplies. These make up
the bulk of our facilities. In the spring and sum-
mer, when we move out-of-doors, we carry this
same equipment with us.

Another objection often is: “Our leaders are
not artists.” Some of our finest arts and crafts
leaders have had no formal education, nor do they
have a great deal of native artistic talent. They do
understand the approach to and development of
the creative process. Any fine leader recognizes
beauty before he tries to create it and teaches chil-

 

‘Paper presented at recent New York State Recreation Conference
in Utrca. New York.

RECREATION

dren or adults to be alert to this beauty about them
before they attempt any creative work. All leaders
learn from children, and this is especially true in
arts and crafts. A small child has few inhibitions.
Therefore, it is' important to remember that there
is no right or wrong in arts and crafts. Teachers
often kill creativeness this way. Processes are im-
portant, but the satisfaction that the person re-
ceives from his creation is all important. There
can be no set standard for this satisfaction.

During our summer program, our leaders are
Selected for all-round recreation leadership. Be-
cause they are less specialized we offer a pre-service
training course, followed by in-service training
once a week throughout the summer. Arts and
crafts processes are demonstrated and discussed
and projects are made by the leaders. Leaders in
the winter program are more specialized, but in-
service training is conducted in a special workshop
for some, with the bulk of the training done by the
supervisor as the leaders work with their groups.
Printed ideas and procedures are also distributed.

Suppose you now have a small scale arts and
crafts program in your recreation department. You
want to see it grow and you need more assistance
from your community. The people’s interest is
lukewarm.

Show the public what you have made from
scraps and substitutes through an exhibit. This
should include work in all the media you’ve used
and represent as many of your craftsmen as pos—
sible. Select the place for your exhibit with great
care so that it is centrally located. Arrange the
projects attractively and you’ll have an eye-stop-
per. A sidewalk exhibit of sketches and paintings,
patterned after those held in Greenwich Village,
would be unique.

Cooperate with any community projects and of-
fer to inject arts and crafts into their program.
For instance, the merchants are playing a baseball
game with the farmers—an annual affair. Offer
to help them publicize their game by making attrac-
tive posters in your craft classes. In Syracuse, the
community women’s clubs craft classes responded
wholeheartedly to a call from the Light House—
an organization for the blind—to help in the wind-
ing of tea kettle handles with reed. A portion of
this operation required sight. We made Christ-

mas tree decorations and favors and gave them to -

the Junior Red Cross to be distributed through-
out city hospitals. Arts and crafts need not stand
alone, but can enrich all phases of your recreation
program and community program at large.

Set aside a certain period of each day or week
for adult classes. Because most adults have had

OCTOBER 1949

little education in arts and crafts in school, they
feel insecure about entering a strange held. Make
their projects simple and usable. Be careful not
to overestimate the ability of your pupils; you
must take them where they are in their develop-
ment and start them from that point. For exam-
ple, men will naturally be interested in woodwork
projects. For one of the first projects, teach the
making of simple shelves. What home doesn’t need
more shelves! In a women’s craft class recently,
the women were thrilled to be introduced to the
mysteries of textile painting. First they decorated
handkerchiefs to learn the techniques involved.
Then they graduated to the decoration of towels,
tablecloths, blouses, and the like.

If you can successfully conduct an adult arts
and crafts program, you will have little trouble in
selling your whole arts and crafts program to the
community.

Red Feather Month

OCTOBER is called the “Red
Feather Month” because that is
when the Community Chests con-
duct their annual campaigns to
support more than fourteen thou-
.sand Red Feather services for
local health, welfare and recrea-
tion. Don’t kick about your town! Instead, kick
in with a little of your spare time. Be a Red Feath-
er volunteer for the Community Chest. Support
Red Feather services by giving through your Com-
munity Chest. Give now—and give enough!

 

(CARE Soap Campaign

Children in Europe are desperately in need of
soap to aid them in warding off diseases—and you
Can be exceedingly helpful by sending soap over-
seas through CARE. All you need to do is to start
collecting Swan Soap wrappers and urge your
friends to do the same. Mail them to CARE, Boston,
I, Massachusetts. For every two Swan wrappers
that you send in, Lever Brothers Company will
donate a regular size cake of Swan to CARE for
distribution overseas, and both organizations guar-
antee delivery. This campaign continues until De-
cember thirty—first. Why not suggest to various
groups in your community center that they make
this one of the year’s projects?

343

Belt—Cut cardboard in triangles two by two-
and-a-half inches, making about thirty pieces—
depending on waist measure. Decorate them with
Indian designs. Punch two holes at the base of
each triangle and two at the top. String with yarn,
arranging every other piece upside down, and tie
the belt with loops at the end of the yarn.

Crepe Paper Beads——Cut crepe paper into
small bits, measuring one cup. Add one-third cup
of hot water and soak until the paper is pulpy.
Add two-thirds cup of flour and a few drops of
perfume. Knead the mixture well. Shape into
beads, making a hole for stringing with a darning
needle. Dry, decorate with water colors, string
and shellac.

Puzzle—Cut a large, brightly colored picture
from a magazine. Put paste all over the back and
paste to a piece of cardboard. Press under a pile
of books. \Vhen thoroughly dry trim the edges,
cut into odd shaped pieces, and shellac.

Flower Vase—Paint or decorate a coffee can
with paper. Paint Clothespins and shellac them.
Place them around rim of can, close together, for

edging.

Pot Holder Container or Note Holder—For
this you’ll need two paper plates, some wool yarn,
a needle and hole puncher. Cut one of the paper
plates in half. Punch holes all around the rim of
the whole paper plate and the half plate, making
them a half-inch apart. Place the half plate, in-
verted, over the whole plate with edges together,
forming a pocket. Join the two together with an
overcasting stitch, using the wool, around the half
plate and the rest of the whole plate. Braid a piece
of yarn for a loop to hang up the container, fasten-
ing it to the top of the plate. You can paint the
plates before you start to sew them together, or
decorate them in any fashion you like.

Compact Cases—From an old hat cut two
pieces of felt, four-and-a-half by four-and-a-half
inches. Overcast one edge of each piece with yarn.
Hold the two pieces together so that overcast edges
meet—this is the opening of the case. Sew around
sides and bottom with the same stitch, through
both pieces. Decorate with contrasting color felt,
or embroider name.

Book Ends—Get two clean bricks and paint
them any color, or decorate them if you like. Paste

344

Some Good

Arts and crafts articles made at home,
on the playground, or in recreation cen-
ters need not cost a lot of money. A
combination of scrap materials and
ingenuity adds up to many attractive
items. At home we can find scrap ma-
terial all around its, and the search for
such material for a group can be made

pieces from an old felt hat on the bottom of each,
setting them up lengthwise or crosswise.

Hanging Vase—Paint an empty mustard jar
on the inside by pouring a small amount of paint
in it, then twirling jar gently until interior is cov-
ered. Pour out the excess paint. \Vhen jar is dry,
make a contrasting rope by which to hang it. Cut
eighteen pieces of yarn into one-and-a-half foot
lengths, and braid pieces into three strands, using
six pieces to each strand. Make another yarn rope
to fit around the rim of the jar and tie it in place.
Then tie the three braids together at one end and
fasten their other ends securely to the collar around
the rim of the jar.

Bookmark—One of your friends or a member
of your family will like this bookmark. To make
it, find an envelope that is made of good, durable
paper. By tracing around part of a drinking glass
make a circular line across one of the closed cor-
ners of the envelope. This corner piece, when cut
out, will slip over the top of a book page and make
a good marker. It may be decorated with your
own design.

Sandals—Select a piece of one-quarter to one-
half inch thick wood. Draw around a pair of flat-
heeled shoes directly on the wood. Cut with cop-
ing saw. Sand the edges and both surfaces until

smooth. Tack a strip of leather or heavy felt—
old belts will do—in place on one side of the sole.
Use several tacks and place this strip where ball of
foot comes, and directly back of it a little. Then
place foot on sole and measure for length of strip.
Tack the end to the other side of the sole.

RECREATION

Craft Ideas

interesting by a scrap scavenger hunt.

Here are some of the many arts and
crafts items which can be inexpensively
made. Used in the handcraft program
on the Akron, Ohio, playgrounds, they
are found in a manual prepared by Miss
Helen Fisher of the Akron Recreation
Department.

Pin Cushion—Paint the bottom of a round
powder box, and decorate with flowers or designs
cut from magazines. Fill the box three-quarters
full with cotton. Then, to make the cushion, cut a
circle of cloth slightly larger than the box and
gather. Fill it tightly with cotton and put into the
box. Use glue to hold the cushion in place.

by
Fancy Pins—I. Cover head of a small hatpin
with warm wax and press beads into it. 2. Cover
head of pin with silver paper and add two silver
balls. 3. Cut two tiny hearts out of felt. Sew them
together, slip over head of a small hat pin, and stuff

with cotton. 4. Cover the head of a hatpin with
two circles of felt and sew small beads to the edge.

Bath Mitt—Use two washcloths, shaping a mitt
big enough to fit your hand. Sew together and
turn to right side. Fold down a small hem at the
top and buttonhole stitch with yarn. Add a small
loop to hang it by.

Wrist Purse—Use a piece of felt five-and—a-
quarter inches by two inches. Round off two of the
corners. For the wrist strap cut two pieces of felt
three inches by five-eighths of an inch. Use the
buttonhole stitch around long sides and one end of
each of the strips. Fold the piece of felt in three
parts. Insert the unstitched ends of the wrist strips
between the edges of the folded purse and sew in
place. Buttonhole stitch around the entire purse.
Sew a button to one end of the wrist strap and cut
a buttonhole in the other. Make a simple embroid-
ered design on the flap of the purse, and fasten
with a snap fastener.

Hat Stand—Cover a small stick, twelve inches
long, with colored paper. Nail this to the center

OCTOBER 1949

of the inside ,bottom of an ice cream carton. Fill
the box with sand. Cut a small hole in the lid of
the box and place on top, with the stick passing
through hole. Cover the box and lid with colored
paper. Use a second lid for the top of the stand.
Nail it to the top'of the stick, pad with paper, and
cover.

Paper Sack Doll~——Use small paper sack (size
five) for head. Draw face on flat side of sack.
Draw hair, or paste on crepe paper hair or yarn.
Stuff sack with crumpled paper to make a good
head. Make two rolls of wrapping paper long
enough for legs and body. Stick these into the
bottom of the stuffed head and tie them all together
with a string. Make arms like the legs. Bend them
at the shoulders and tie them at the neck. Make
a dress and bonnet from two more paper sacks.
Decorate with an all-over pattern or borders.

Indian Rattle—Punch a hole in the top and
bottom of a large size baking powder can, and run
a small stick through it. Put a few marbles or
pebbles in the can before replacing lid. Cover
with brightly designed paper, streamers or feathers
tacked to the top of the stick.

Toy Animals—Use an oatmeal or round salt
box for the bodies. Cut back and front shapes
from cardboard and glue to the box. Paint or
cover with paper. Head and legs can be cut from

 

heavy cardboard, and slipped through slits in box,
while tail is made from rope or cardboard.

Toy Clock—To make this toy clock with hands
that move, use a bouillon-cube box as base and a
round cheese box as face. Cut two cardboard hands
and fasten them to the clock with a nail punched
through its center. Draw the numbers around the
edge of the face, or paste on numbers from an old
calendar. To move the hands of the clock, twist the
nail from the back. This is especially useful in
teaching small children to tell time. ‘

Doll House—You will need a shoe box, paint
and scissors. Put the lid on the box. Cut out win-
dows and doors. Paint the box white and the
windows and doors green.

Doll Bed—You’ll need a cigar box, four spools,
enamel and glue. First the cover is taken off the
box and nailed or glued to one end for a head-
board. Then the. spools are glued to the four
corners. Finally, the bed is painted and decorated.

345

How to Start a Bicycle. Club

  

lCYCLING CAN BE an ideal recreation activity
B for schools and colleges. A bicycle is inex-
pensive to operate, requiring little or no outlay for
upkeep. Cycling is an active, not a spectator, sport
open to both men and women of all ages, and can
be enjoyed mildly or strenuously almost the year-
round.

To establish a bicycle club in a school or college,
there should be a promotion committee of at least
one faculty member, who was or is an experienced
cyclist, and a group of students who are genuinely
interested (not just thinking of getting their name
and picture in the yearbook) and who will do some
paper work and riding. Youth hostelers would be
among the good people to start a bicycle club.
Most American cities have branches or members of
the League of American “"heelmen or Cyclists
Touring Club, who would also be willing to aid in
the establishment of such cycle clubs.

The committee should obtain a meeting room
and advertise for charter members. At the first
meeting the following matters should be among
those discussed and planned:

Roland C. Geirt is author of "Bicycling A: A Hobby”
and .recretary of the College Cycle Club of New York.

346

in Schools
and
Colleges

4’ |.' I Roland C. Geist

" ""1‘T E17

1. Club name, such as Nassau \Vheelmen or
Vassar Cyclers.

2. Definite aims—touring, racing, trick riding,
hosteling, polo, and so on.

3. Drafting of constitution.

4. Election of officers.

5. Membership requirements.

6. Plans for buying or renting bicycles on a
cooperative basis.

7. Plans for outfits, colors.

8. Requirements for bicycle letter award.

9. Establishment of a bicycle book shelf in the
college library.

10. Physical check-up for each member at regu-
lar intervals.

11. Cooperation with the League of American
\Vheelmen, Cyclists Touring Club, Amateur Bicy-
cle League of America.

12. Schedule of trips, outings, picnics, theatre
parties, dances and the like.

Touring will, no doubt, be the chief interest of
the new club, as racing requires special bicycles,
a training program and so on. Bicycle polo is very
popular in England, and might be an interesting
team sport. Polo equipment includes niallets, balls,
helmets and coats. Trick riding and unicycle acts

RECREATION

might be used in the annual college show. If tan-
dems are available the club might do a good deed
and invite local, blind veterans to enjoy some back
seat pushing exercise. A girl as steersman and
a veteran in the rear really is a nice way to enjoy
a bicycle picnic.

All minors in the club should be required to
present a signed permission note from their par-
ents or guardians, with their signature placed un-
derneath the words, “I assume full responsibility.”

This will protect both the institution and faculty
advisors.

Riders might be divided into groups according
to ability——1zovices, or beginners, intermediates,
who have ridden fifty miles a day, and experts,
who have ridden a hundred miles a day or more.
Tours might be planned for each group, with all
joining at a given destination at noon, each class
having taken a different route involving more or
less mileage and hill-climbing difficulty. Half—day,

one-day, week-end and vacation tours can be
planned, . also.

Easter week is ideal for a tour. One Long Island
high school planned an Easter tour to the Penn-
sylvania Dutch country. The American Youth
Hostels present one and two week planned tours
in New England, the Middle Atlantic States, Cali-
fornia, and other parts of the country. They usu-
ally cover about twenty-five to thirty miles a day,
for many of the riders are novices. In the begin-
ning, the club might oin other experienced cycling
groups and find out how a club run is conducted.

In planning a bicycle tour, these points should
be considered:

1. Distance—from twenty-five to seventy-five
miles daily, depending upon ability of riders.

2. Route—off the main routes where auto traffic
is heavy.

3. Roads—hard surfaced roads are easier to
pedal on than dirt and sand.

4. Destination—some scenic or historic spot.

5. Stop—overs, comfort stations and food along
route.

6. Return route—via a different road.

7. Return via railroad, boat or bus.

8. Auto—to follow the riders with extra tires
or tubes, pick up the weary.

9. Maps—one for everyone.

IO. Host, hostess, pacemakers and rear guard—
for stragglers and the weary.

II. Wind conditions—changing route if head
winds are strong. '

I2. Hills—hilly terrain requires special gears
and powerful riders. For most riders too many
hills make the tour work rather than play.

OCTOBER 1949

I 3. Bad weather—avoid starting in the rain.
Summer showers pass quickly.

I4. Timing—plan to be home before dark for
glaring motor lights are dangerous.

I 5. Accommodations—plan for overnight ac-
commodations and hostels as well as meals.

I6. Leaders or pacemakers—to set the pace at
eight, ten, twelve miles an hour to suit.

I7. Divisions—separating group into fast and
pleasure division; fast division with lightweight
bicycles and experienced riders; beginners and
heavy bicycle division, which moves more slowly.

I8. Formation—ride in column twos unless state
laws require otherwise. In New Jersey, for in-
stance, cyclists must ride single file in order to
permit autos toipass more easily.

19. Plans for emergency—in case of a flat tire
or mechanical trouble, the assistant pacemakers
might stop and take care of the difficulty, letting
the others move along.

20. Starting—last but not least, starting the
tours on time. Allow ten minutes for lateness be-
cause of traffic delays, and then be off!

Back in the “gay nineties” era cyclists wore a
riding costume. Today the cyclist wears any old
thing that suits his fancy. Regulation jerseys with
college emblems make a nice appearance. Shorts,
knickers and divided skirts are among the practical
bicycling outfits. Slacks are loose and sloppy, and
may get caught in the chain and cause a serious
accident.

When there is snow and ice on the roads the
club might become interested in historical research
on the bicycle. Scrapbooks, photograph albums,
old prints, sheet music, programs and books on
cycling may be collected and classified.

Over 250 books have been written on cycling in
the past hundred years. My own collection of bi-
cycle books numbers 222 ; some of them are French,
German, Russian, Spanish, Italian, and Japanese.
Currier and Ives have published about a dozen
lithographs picturing the cyclists of the past cen-
tury. A scrapbook of current news items relating
to cycling is an inexpensive and interesting hobby.
The College Cycle Club of New York has ten huge
scrapbooks of clippings dating back to about I870.
Postage stamps picturing bicycles may be collected.

Members of a bicycle club should own their bi-
cycles whenever possible. Rented bicycles often
do not fit well and may not be in good condition.
A three or four speed gear is good for hilly terrain.
A folding bicycle is now available; it may be
packed in an auto or taken into a subway.

Bicycling is fun, especially when enjoyed as a
group activity!

347

Wanda/at PM

Youth Shines—The youngsters of Port Huron,
Michigan, were not forgotten during the week-long
Blue \Vater Festival-Centennial this summer.
Sponsored by the city recreation department, a
Youth Day was set aside. One of the day’s fea-
tures was a “Parade on \Vheels,” with over 150
children streaming through the downtown area of
the city to Pine Grove Park. Boys and girls of
varying ages competed for prizes with their deco-
rated bicycles, fancily trimmed doll carriages, and
wheeled floats—including a covered wagon, a sur-
rey with the fringe on top, and a miniature coach
on roller skates.

Following this event, judges selected a Play—
grounds King and Queen, on the basis of person-
ality, appearance and physique, a Freckles King
and a Pigtails Queen. Formal coronation cere-
monies for these winners of the Youth Day honors
were held in the Memorial Park Stadium in the
evening, prior to the performance of the Century
of Progress pageant.

6

Summer Tales—A series of Seashore Story
Hours for children, sponsored by the Brooklyn
Public Library, was held on Thursday mornings
during July and August in Center Lawn, Seaside
Park, Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Groups of chil-
dren, including some from a nearby day camp, and
parents, too, listened enthralled to the tales of
storyteller Mrs. Hilda Armeson. This project was
an informal supplement to the Brooklyn Library’s
weekly indoor storytelling hours, held when
schools are in session.

9

Safe and Sound—A feature of the 37th Na-
tional Safety Congress and Exposition, which will
be held in Chicago, October 24—28, will be the
panel discussion-—-“Students Evaluate Driver Ed—
ucation and Training—wand How l” Fourteen boys
and girls from seven cities in various sections of
the country will take part, and Joe Kelly of “Quiz
Kids” radio fame will be the moderator.

Other sessions during the congress will include
those on safety education at the elementary level,
the secondary level and the higher level; a meeting

348

devoted to new safety films; a reception, banquet
and Fun Fest.
' 6

ForeI—Golfers in the Los Angeles, California,
area now are enjoying the result of years of plan-
ning by the city recreation and park depart-
ment—the Rancho Municipal Golf Course which
was opened for public use in July, following the
holding of the U. S. Amateur Public Links Tour-
nament on the new greens.

To assure golfing enthusiasts a fair chance to
enjoy the course, the recreation commission has
established certain rules to govern play. First
come, first served is a strict rule for all, with no
reservations for playing time accepted. The
course gates open at 4 :40 am. and play begins at
5.15 a.m. Players are issued tickets for foursomes.

 

I.

in

Available
Thru Leading

Distributors

4

TLff'
 r”: IIIVII?’ 14v .rnv: pitta '
r' " MANUFACIUIIHG COHPAHY -

7,

O

RECREATION

I'm Choice

/W  Wm

   
 
  
  
   
 

,
Every Sport!

Athletic Goods

SI. IOUIS MO.

Theatrical Services and Supplies

Excerpted from the Virginia Drama News, Ex-
tension Division of the University of‘ Virginia

 

This source listing, compiled by the Department of Dramatic Arts of the Col—

lege of \Villiam and Mary, should be a helpful reference for you and your
drama group. The suggested sources have been checked to make sure of their

willingness to serve small groups.

Theatrical Shopping Services

Theatre Production Service, Inc., 1430 Broadway,
New York 18. Everything for the theatre—consultants,
equipment and supplies. Attention of Jean Rosenthal;
catalog available on request. A

Movie Supply Company, 1318 South Wabash Ave-
nue, Chicago 5. Projection equipment, movie screens,
opera chairs, stereopticons, curtains and-scenery made
to order, complete theatre equipment and supplies.

Art Craft Theatre Equipment Company, 108 West
46 Street. New York 19. New and used cycs, window
drapes, lighting equipment, motor controls, scenery,
stage curtains, asbestos curtains, stage hardware,
tracks, stage rigging; sale or rental. Catalog available.

Stage Hardware and Rigging

J. R. Clancy, Inc., 1010 West Beldon Avenue, Syra-
cuse, New York. Complete line of stage hardware and
rigging equipment. New catalog just off press.

Bruckner-Mitchell, Inc., 420 West 45 Street, New
York. Manufacturers of stage rigging, catalog avail-
able on request.

Joseph Vasconcellos, Inc., 43 Dutchkills Street, Long
Island City 1, New York. Successors to Peter Clark,
1Inc., stage rigging. Cut available from “Sweets” cata-
0g.

J. H. Channon Corporation, 1447 West Hubbard
Street, Chicago 22. Manufacturers of stage rigging.
Catalog available on request.

Stage Lighting Equipment

Century Lighting, Inc., 419 West Street, New York
19. Manufacturers of lekolites, fresnelites, and so on.
Catalog available.

Kleigl Brothers and Universal Stage Lighting Com-
pany, Inc., 321 West 50 Street, New York. Manufac-
turers and dealers in all types of stage lighting equip-
ment.

Sol Weiner, 38 West 28 Street, New York. Com-
plete line of scenic artists’ supplies. Price list available.

Newton Stage Lighting Company, 253 West 14
Street, New York. “Lighting for the stage, particu-
larly adapted for the needs of school and church
auditoriums.” Free illustrated price list.

General Radio Company, Cambridge 39, Massachu-
setts. Manufacturers and dealers of “variacs.” Bulle-
tin available on request.

.Gelatine may be obtained from almost any stage
lighting house.

Scene Canvas

The Astrup Company, 39 Walker Street, New York.
Flameproofed and unflameproofed canvas and muslin.
SpeCialists to the theatre trade.

OCTOBER .1949

., Properties

Encore Studios, 410 West 47 Street, New York. Six
floors packed with props from by-gone shows. Rental

or sale. Properties made to order.

Felipelli General Flower and Decoration Company,
311 West 50 Street, New York. Paper and cloth
flowers, leaves, vines, and plants; artificial decorations
of every description.

Universal Flower and Decorating Company, 319
West 48 Street, New York. Theatrical flowers and

decorations.
Scene Paints

A. Leiser Company, 48 Horatio Street, New York.
Complete line of scene painters’ colors and supplies.

Catalog.
Gothic Color Company, 90 Ninth Avenue, New York

11. Complete line of scenic artists' supplies and colors.
Catalog.

Aljo Manufacturing Company, 130 West 21 Street.
New York 11. Complete line of scenic colors and
dyes. Color cards available.

Sound Recordings

Gennet Records, Richmond, Indiana. Gennet sound

effect recordings. Catalog.
Thomas J. Valentino, Inc., 1600 Broadway, New

York. Distributor for Major and Gennet sound effect

recordings. Catalogs.
Charles Michelson, 67 West 44 Street, New York 18.

Distributor for Speedy-Q sound effect recordings.
Lang-Worth Features Program, Inc., 113 West 57
Street, New York 19. Mood music recordings. Catalog.

Make-Up Supplies

M. Stein Cosmetic Company, 430 Broome Street,
New York 13. Stein make-up. Booklet of instructions

available.
Paramount Cosmetics, 797 Seventh Avenue, New

York. Mehron, Stein and Max Factor available from

one source.
Gray’s Drug Store, 1690 Broadway, New York 19.

Specializing in all makes of stage and screen make-up.

Costume Rental

Eaves Costume Company, Inc., 151 West 46 Street,
New York. Rentals from stock of over 100,000. The-

atrical, historical and uniforms.

Brooks Costume Rental Company, 1152 Sixth Ave-
nue, New York. Costume rental from stock of over
100,000. -

Van Horn Sons, 12th and Chestnut Streets, Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. Large stock, specializing in
educational dramatics.

Lester, Ltd., 14 West Lake Street, Chicago. The-
atrical costumes, fabrics and accessories. Specializing
in costumes and materials for dances, revues, skits,
and so on.

349

The Folding, Portable, Porter
 BASKETBALL BACKSTOP

In five minutes it can be folded r In use. if has the rigidin of a sta-

and rolled away to dear the tionary backstop . . . but it can be

S“, e or the gymnasium floor whisked out of sight or set up again
forgother activities in a iiffy . . . It is secured to the floor

-. by four easy-turning hand-wheels that
l. screw into flush floor-plates, so no ob-
“ __ ,, istructions remainwhen the”Rollaway"
' ~ ‘  z is stored under the stage or in the
 ' equipment closet. .. Simply withdraw
four lock-pins and the "Rollaway" col-
lapses, and rolls away on 5-inch cas-
ters . . . Yes, these are some of the
reasons why Architects, SchooI'Boards
and Coaches unanimously agree the-
Porter "Rollaway" is in a class by it-
self . . . Further, the Rollaway complies
with all official requirements, has the
bank braced out 5-feet from the verti-
cal support . . . and is supplied with
either fan-shaped or rectangular bank
. . . Write for attractive price and if
for stage use give the distance from
stage to playing court.

  
 
 
 
  

 

When folded for storage the Porter "Rollaway" is
only 38-inches high (not including the goal). It can
be stored under the stage.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 

   

Auditoriums can now be free
of visible basketball backstops,
thanks to the Porter "Rollaway".
Removable in 5-minutes, none-
theless the "Rollaway" is as
rigid as a stationary backstop.

THE L E. CORPORATION
' ' OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFAUURERS 0f PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIIIM AND SWIMMING PDOl EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGva‘>5 3:333ng
Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

35b RECREATION

A cowboy qzcadrz'lle add: spice in Pontiac, Mic/o.

Milwaukee Introduces a New Wrinkle
in Its Local Square Dance Program

ET INTO THE dance, with some lively music
G and a good caller! This has been the com-
munity cry in Milwaukee and the whole State of
\Visconsin, one of the hotbeds ‘of the square danc—
ing enthusiasm now sweeping. the nation. From
all reports, they really have fun out there. Today
classes are conducted for beginners, advanced
square dancers and callers at eleven various social
centers, with the largest gatherings at the Wiscon-
sin Avenue social center. The windup of the sea-
son is an all-city square dance jamboree for all
class members. ,

But the latest wrinkle, also spearheaded by the
Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation,
is the opportunity to learn to square dance by
radio, thus bringing this gay activity right into
one’s own home. Can’t you picture the youngsters
and their friends and grandpa having a riotous
time untangling themselves from a mixed-up set?
It can happen here!

The department, in cooperation with the Mil-
waukee Sentineland radio station WISN, has

OCTOBER 1949

  

been conducting a radio series of square dance in—
struction every Saturday night at ten o’clock,
continuing for thirteen weeks. The Sentinel pub—
lishes a page of diagrams each SatUrday morning
as a visual aid for use while listening to the radio
instruction. Through daily stories the paper is en-
couraging readers to make up a party in their
homes each Saturday night and follow the calls.
The radio square dances are broadcast for relaxa-
tion, fun and neighborliness, which alladds up to
Milwaukee “gemuetlichkeit.”

When the radio station broadcasts the square
dance calls, a set is working in the studio with
the caller. The first program featured specific in-
structions and practice in the basic steps of the
square dance. Radio listeners receive the instruc—
tions and follow the caller; and if they get mixed
up, as they will, they are asked to fall back to the
home position and wait for the next call.

The square dancing in the program of the Mil—
waukee Recreation Department appeals to all ages,
from teen-agers to adults. Classes that have been

351

started in the various social centers are filled to
capacity. Dancers in the advanced groups appear
in costumes of gingham dresses for the women
and plaid shirts for the men. Enterprising stores
are capitalizing on the square dance interest by
advertising western skirts of washable denim,
trimmed with white suede fringe, pockets and belt
loops, ranchers’ hats, neckerchiefs and boots for
the women. The men wear “Big Bill” hats, neck-
erchiefs, frontier pants, boots and both plaid and
two—toned shirts.

The square dance jamboree held in the Milwau-
kee Auditorium‘in January attracted some 5,000
dancers. The recreation departments of \Ves-t
Allis, \Vhitehsh Bay, \Vauwatosa and \Vest llil-
waukee, all in the Milwaukee metropolitan area,
-have large groups of square dancers in their rec-
reation centers. Commercial square dances are
also being conducted in country dance halls within
a fifteen—mile radius of Milwaukee. Last summer
the Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recrea-

tion conducted square danc-
ing outdoors on the lighted
tennis courts and attracted
good crowds.

The class for callers con-
ducted by the department has
a good enrollment, and not
only assures the square dance
fans that callers are available
whenever a group meets. but
teaches them how to call their
own. Many a quiet, retiring
person has surprised and
delighted himself and his
friends. New callers are now
blooming like the rose! \Vith
the new radio program, every
square dancer has an oppor-
tunity to enjoy himself in his
own home, to try his wings with as much privacy
as he desires.

A SQUARE DANCE
PARTY
IN YOUR OWN
LIVING ROOM"

I
“Will T0
SQUARE IMGE”

EVERY SATU'HDAY
10:00 P. M.

WISN

Collier: CHIT WANG?!“
‘ 0

WHO! FR I'IMMIS
HI SITWIY’S
HLWIU‘KEE SE-ITHL

 

 

Community Grandmas of 1949

Teresa V. Larson

Surely times are changing, for in dear old days of
yore

\Ve knew that grandma’d keep the kids when we
went to the store.

And always after wash days, with piles of clothes
to mend,

On our grandma with her thimble we always could

depend.

But now with recreation parks in every neighbor-
hood,

The youngsters rush to playgrounds while their
grandma’s getting good

At “do-si-do yer partners” and then “promenade
the hall,”

Ignoring aches and rheumatiz to “swing yer part-
ners all.”

Of course on afternoons they find no men are to

be had,
But does that stop them? No, siree! Some take

the part of Dad.

352

\Vith overalls and son’s gay shirts, bandanas and

a cap
They make the cutest, gay old blades to “swing
that gal with snap !”

They swing ’em hi—they swing ’em low—they
“hurry to keep time,”

Their eyes are bright, their steps are light, they
“balance four in line.”

In olden days Gram shook her head.in dignity and

scorn
At antics of the light in heart, but now she seems

reborn.

\Vith circulation so stepped up, and cheerful plans

ahead,

She seems more understanding; so we don’t mind
being led

Along life’s rocky pathways, sharing bad and

good,
For we are junior partners in both fun and liveli-

, hood.

RECREATION

   

Houses are made of card-
board boxes, orange crates.

Built according to scale,
furniture looks realistic.

Seeded lawns and rock gar-
dens add to landscaping.

OCTOBER 1949

90% WWW

A. J. GATAWAKAS

LTHOUGH THE housing situation has assumed
A a signiiicance of national proportions, with
problems of labor, costs, material, and the like
remaining to be solved, these obstacles vanished in
the face of a determined and uninhibited approach
to the housing shortage by the “small fry” of the
City of Norfolk, Virginia.

Sponsored by the Recreation Bureau, a city—
wide doll house contest proved, beyond a doubt,
that the task of providing future housing accom-
modations will be in capable and qualified hands.
The imagination and ingenuity exhibited by these
embryo architects, interior decorators, carpenters,
and so on, have proved, in many instances, to be
nothing short of amazing. The architectural design,
landscaping and interior furnishings of these mini-
ature homes provided ample confirmation of their
ability.

Cardboard boxes and orange crates were used
for the main structure. The size of the houses
varied from a four-room home to a seven and a
half-room, three-story building. Furniture was
carved or fashioned from soap, clay (ceramics),
wooden tongue-depressors, thread spools, clothes-
pins, buttons and match sticks. Handwoven rugs
and linoleum squares decorated the floors.

Each community center had one doll house as
its project, and all the boys and girls contributed
their bit toward its completion. The “heavy
work”—erection of the houses, rock gardens, the
walks—was done by the boys, and the girls added
the feminine touch to the interiors.

All of the furniture and equipment, was con—
structed according to scale. Some of the rooms
looked so realistic and comfortable that one felt
the urge to relax in the living room or play a game
of ping—pong or shufileboard in the recreation
room. The acquaintance of the children with mod-
ern miracles of science was illustrated by one living
room which contained a television set.

Other outstanding interior features included
pleated lamp shades, small bone rings for dra-
peries and shower curtains, miniature magazines on
card tables, a tile bath, a play pen in the nursery

Autbor, uJJthunt director, N orfolé Recreation Bureau.

353

with a baby in it, a clock with movable hands, a
reproduction of an oil painting. and more. Among
other special features of the exhibit were a picket
fence, real glass windows, venetian blinds, a lily
pond, a china closet, brick walls, a flagstone walk,
a fireplace, a medicine cabinet, awnings, a country
home style house, a mail box, a hand woven nylon
rug, window boxes, and so on.

Most of the houses had a garden and lawn. One
actually had a seeded lawn and a small rock gar-
den. Another boasted of a backyard playground
with a hard-surface area and playground equip-
ment. A fish pond adorned the front lawn of one
imposing residence. Another had a rose trellis and
lily pond, and one home could be reached via a
flagstone walk. Colored sawdust and green sweep-
ing compound passed for lawns very realistically.

Ribbons were awarded each center according to
the following judging sheet, and personal recogni-
tion of the children’s efforts was made by the use
of table cards reading, “Architecture by ,”
“Interior Decorating by ,” “Landscaping by
,” and listing the name or names.

 

 

 

The houses will remain at each center as an in—
tegral part of its physical facilities. The young-
sters will use them regularly as a realistic back-
ground for their “grown-up” tea parties, and un-
doubtedly plan for future structural additions and
interior renovations.

Judges Score Sheet

1. Best constructed and durable house and fur-
niture.

2. Best landscaping offexterior.

3. Most originality in interior decorating.

4. Most beautiful home (interior and exterior)
and furnishings.’ _

5. Most suitable plans and architecture for this
climate.

6. Most harmonious in color and furnishings
selections.

7. Most convenient arrangement of floor plans
and furnishings.

8. Most home-like atmosphere.

9. Best built furniture.

10. Most original idea.

 

m . leecreafion girecfor:

o Are you satisfied that your community
is getting the most out of its recreation
dollar? If not, why not consider

Municipal Recreation Administration

This practical correspondence course is
especially designed for recreation administra-
tors and leaders who are responsible for the
planning and direction of municipal recreation
programs.

Available through either individual or group
enrollments, this course includes a 516-page
textbook, individualized lesson instruction, and

certificate upon satisfactory completion. Entire
cost $35. ‘7

(Approved under G. 1. Bill)

F or details write

THE INSTITUTE FOR TRAINING
IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION

Conducted since 1934 by

THE INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS' ASSOCIATION
1313 East 60th Street Chicago 37

 

354

THE NATIONAL SECTION
OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

of the

American Association for Health,

Physical Education“, and Recreation

J4nnounced f/zaf

Beginning August 1, 1949 the ofiicial
publisher for all the publications and
thcial Sport Guides of the National
Section on Women’s Athletics will he the
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION
of the NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIA-
TION instead of A. S. Barnes 8: Co.

All orders should be addressed to:

National Section on Women’s Athletics

1201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.

 

RECREATION

 

ARTIST is played by a group with one person,
usually the teacher, acting as leader. The players
are divided into teams of four or five. Each team

is given a pad of paper and a pencil. One person.

from each team is chosen artist.

The artists go to the leader, who shows them a
paper with a word or a group of words written on
it. For example, the paper may say “mirror.”
Then the artists go to their teams and without
saying a word draw on their pad a picture to sug-
gest the word “mirror.” The members of a team
try to guess the word before the other teams can
guess it. The winning team, the one which can
guess the word first, scores one point. Each player
is the artist of his team in turn.

The artists must not speak a word while making
their pictures and may not write any words or
numbers on their pictures to help their teammates
guess what they have drawn. The artist may nod
“yes” or “no” to tell his teammates whether they
have guessed what he is drawing. The leader
should be prepared with a list of suitable words,
such as mirror, snowshoe, doughnut, steeple, baby,
candle, school, tail, bow and arrow, shoes and
socks, horse, fire, rose, cheese. ’

MATCH UPS. Collect two each of a number
of small objects, such as keys, spoons, pencils,

 

Reprinted by permission of The Pilgrim Press.

OCTOBER 1949'

Karen Newton

erasers, balls, nuts, nails, screws, buttons, safety
pins, bobby pins, paper clips, rubber jar rings, rub-
ber bands, corks, and clothespins. Have as many
different objects as there will be children in your
group.

Give a different object to each child. Have the
remaining objects in a box or piled on the table.
Have the children find the mates in the pile. Re-
peat this several times, giving each child a new
object for each game. When it is time to put the
objects away, have the children arrange them on
the table in pairs, beginning with the smallest ones.
As you put them back in their box, talk about the
objects and for what they are used.

ANIMAL TEAR OUTS. Give each child a

sheet of colored construction paper. Tell him to
tear it with his hands into an animal, making his
animal as large as possible. Allow about ten
minutes for this and then have the animals tacked
onto a cardboard to show them off. Use white
for the dark colors and black for the light ones.
Instead of animals you may have birds, Howers,
things to eat or the “person on your right” torn
out. Sometimes it is fun to save the .scraps of
paper from your first tearing to use for a second
and third tearing, though this will mean that some
of the finished products will be tiny.

   

355

 

‘forl/IPDI/ISin
SOFTBALL

H 8:3 offers 22 expertly designed
softball bats to meet the require-

ments of all softball players.

With this wide variety of models,
the Louisville Slugger Bat stands
supreme in softball . . . as well as
in baseball.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO.

LOUISVILLE KENTUCKY

  
     
      

In the Field - -'-

Ralph Van Fleet

ALPH VAN FLEET is a big man who takes to
life in Florida like a native. All of his work
for the National Recreation Association has been
done in that state and in Georgia. “A wonderful
place to live and work,” he says, “wonderful.” His
manner, which is easy and sociable, helps consider-
ably with his success in the recreation field. Al—
ways, however, it is kept directly in line with a
strong adherence to principle and forceful purpose,
which will brook no interference.

Van was born in a small town in Pennsylvania,
settled by the Van Fleets and called Fleetville. His
early education was a more or less local affair, for
he went to Keystone Academy in Factoryville and
then to Mansfield State Normal School, where he
majored in physical education, and from which he
was graduated in 1918. The Army immediately
claimed his services, but after a year he was free
to start a teaching career.

There was a job open in a rural Pennsylvania
school—~one of those serving about forty children
and eight grades. He took it on and, along with
teaching everything else, instructed the children to
play and really to have fun. Van has never believed
in the old formalized gymnastics and from the be-
ginning was_one of the progressive group in physi-
cal education who believes that the best of physical
and other values can most effectively be achieved
through the enjoyment of informal play.

At the end of three years he moved to St. Peters-
burg, Florida, to take a job as teacher and prin-
cipal and supervisor of physical education in the
public schools. There, too, he stayed for three
years, during which time he was persuaded to

OCTOBER 1949

 

accept the additional responsibilities of superin—
tendent of local parks. He was enjoying it, and
might have stayed longer had he not surprised
himself by being lured to Clearwater and a job as
organizer and director of an ambitious church rec-
reation program. It was a.challenging one, to be
generously financed, aimed at serving everybody
in the community, supplied with a new and beau-
tiful building, and was sponsored by the Peace
Memorial Presbyterian Church. Van turned the
offer down at first, but finally was won over when
they made him realize the potential scope of the
work, and the free hand which was to be given the
person in charge.

He started with a community youth program
which almost immediately jammed the doors and
rapidly grew into a program for adults, too. He
stayed with the project, always expanding it, until
a city recreation department was formed, at which
time he became city superintendent of recreation.
The change came after five years, when the church
narrowed its program to one for church members
only—and Van turned to the city for wider service.
A political turnover in Clearwater in 1939 resulted
in his resignation and move to Panama City, where
he took a principalship with the county schools.

For several years he had been growing ac-
quainted with the National Recreation Association
through an old-timer—J. B. Williams, then NRA
district representative in the area. Mr. Williams
introduced him to a National Recreation Congress
in Atlantic City in 1936. There he.met the late
Howard Braucher, George Nesbitt, John Faust
and other Association personnel. He remembers

357

   
 

WITH the stars of sports, modern features of construction in the equipment
they use are of the utmost importance. That’s why so many of them use and
recommend W'ilson.

The famous W'ilson Advisory Staff, whose members help design, test and
play W'ilson equipment, is anOther reason why star players prefer Wilson.
Golf champions Sam Snead, Lloyd Mangrum, Gene Sarazen, Patty Berg and
Babe Didrikson—tennis greats Jack Kramer, Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and
Alice Marble—diamond stars Ted W’illiams and Bob Feller—gridiron head-
liners Johnny Lujack, Charley Trippi and Paul Christman are only a few of
this great staff of experts. Follow tbese stars—play Wilson—know you’re play-
ing the best.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO., CHICAGO
(A subsidiary of Wilson & Cm, inc.)
Branch Offices In New York. San Francisco ond other principal cilies

_.‘.*-._‘_'T ___.

f- "‘

 

 
  

RECREATION

being particularly impressed by Mr. Braucher at
the time—seeing him address meetings, hearing
him in discussions.

It was natural then, that Ralph Van Fleet would
welcome the opportunity to do a wider job, under
the leadership of this man, when such an occasion
presented itself. He was in his hotel room in Pan—
ama City one night when the phone rang, and
Charlie Reed was on the line telling him that he
had been selected as the Association’s district rep-
resentative for Georgia and Florida. He came to
New York for an interview and in February, 1946,
gladly accepted a position with the National Rec-
reation Association.

Through the succeeding years he has found, as
he anticipated, that the satisfactions of the job are
many. Among them he first mentions the people
he meets. He says, “I think I work with some of
the best people in the world. When you go into a
city and seek out those who are thinking in terms
of bettering the welfare of the community, you find
the best, clearest thinking people in the town. I
always have a desire to visit every city in my area.”

Van feels that it is so easy to get into a rut, to
ride along doing the same old thing, taking the
line of least resistance, and emphasizes that a pro—
gram should grow, should have variety, be differ—
ent each year. When a new recreation superin—
tendent asks him for advice he says: “First, as a
superintendent you can behave yourself, do as you

are told, not make anybody mad, stay between I

‘yes’ and ‘no,’ and you’ll probably be right there
for years and never be worth a darn. On the
other hand, you can go in there and really do a
job, stand up for what you know should be done—
and you may stay a long time or you might be out
in two years’ time. Take your choice.”

He vigorously stresses the importance of doing
a good over-all community recreation job which,
of course, involves working closely with, and help-
ing all other local agencies concerned with recrea-
tion interests.

One last satisfaction, but certainly not the least,
is the opportunity to meet with other professional
recreation people in groups and conferences. He
says that you find there a warmth of feeling, infor-
mality, understanding and fellowship seldom found
in other groups—and he has been to meetings and
conventions of many different kinds. “Recreation
people seem to belong to an invisible fraternity,”
he states, “and being one of them is one of the
greatest experiences a man can have.”

Of course, as district representative you run up
against a variety of problems, as you do in any
job. One problem in his district is that of fighting

OCTOBER 1949

to keep recreation out of politics, and of getting
boards to employ qualified recreation leadership
instead of local political choices. Another area
problem is that of helping communities to “keep
pace.” They usually want to advance as rapidly as
other communities which they hear about; they
want their budget to advance as fast as other
budgets.

About the matter of proper planning of recrea-
tion facilities, he says, “Many of our cities are
prone to spend a great deal of money for facilities
without giving proper attention to location, needs
or to the people whom they are to serve. They’ll
have five acres in an inconvenient spot and say
‘Let’s use those.’ There is a general lack of fore—
sight in planning.”

In program, too, Van is concerned with a lack
of imagination in planning, especially for play-
ground activities. V an himself has the faculty of
stirring the imagination of children in anything to
be done, even in work. When he taught gym,
everything was a game. When the youngsters
were using the traveling rings, for instance, they
were “taking a trip” to some definite place, calling
out the names of stations as they moved from ring
to ring. He believes that you have to get down to
their level and do what they want to do, like to do,
and then help them learn. They must have adven—
ture, new things to interest them.

While working through Florida, Ralph Van
Fleet managed to continue college work and re—
ceived his B.S. degree in physical education and
sociology from Southern College at Lakeland.
Other college courses were squeezed in along the
way, and he has always contrived to take what
short courses he could from the National Recrea-
tion Association.

It was in Florida, too, that he met and married
his wife, who was then teaching in St. Petersburg.
Now, the Van Fleets, who own their own home in
Clearwater, have two boys, both University of
Florida students. “Our home,” says Van, “is a
place of relaxation and rest, where we can all do
what we like to do.” There, he and his boys work
together in developing new Species of plants, fruit
and flowers. Van is a plant fiend, and one of his
favorite leisure-time pursuits is just being at home,
working with his roses, experimenting with new
varieties of flowers and rare plants. Actually, his
number one leisure-time hobby is to travel with
his family, enjoying the sharing of new experi-
ences and adventures whether for one day, or a
month. They love to see new places, have picnic
lunches, go mountain climbing, see a few ball
games—together.

359

 

 

OI rubber
st re tches

budget dollars
6 times as far!

 

 

FOOTBALLS

 

BASKETBALLS

 

SOCCER-KICK BALLS

VOLLEYBALLS

 

 

TETHERBALLS

4v“
‘1-
(a

SOFTBALLS

  
 

360

BUILT LIKE A TIRE TO WEAR LIKE A TIRE
—That's VOIT ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT.
Tough, molded bladders— high-tensile
fabrics and specially compounded rug-
ged rubber covers are the secret. . .
Virtually non-existant upkeep, low initial
cost, "up to 6 times longer" playing life
— all combine to make VOIT the best buy
in athletics today.

'I.WATERPROOF. Rain — mud or water can't
write red ink into your athletic ball budget.

2.SIX TIMES THE WEAR. Up to six times usual

playing life means your athletic budget is
stretched six times as far.

3.0FFICIAI. STANDARDS. Voit school-type
equipment meets all official specifications for
weight, shape, size and performance.

4.USED BY 100,000 U. S. SCHOOLS. Yes,

schools, camps, and playgrounds all over
America have used VOIT for years --THEY
KNOW — VOIT is America's finest.

wide choice of equipment

Everything from Batting Tees to Waterpolo balls
— Send for our complete Athletic Equipment Cata-

logue for I950. OVER EIGHTY DIFFERENT ITEMS!

NEW YORK I0, CHICAGO 6, LOS ANGELES II

 

RECREATION

Phoebe Hall Valentine Retires

0 MRS. PHOEBE HALL VALENTINE retired on the
first of August after twenty-eight years of effec-
tive service as Executive Director of the Smith
Memorial Playgrounds and Playhouses in Phila-
delphia, Pennsylvania. At its inception, the Smith
Memorial, now fifty-five years old, was and still is
a most forward—looking charitable trust, adminis—
tered by the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company.
It was created under the wills of Richard and
Sarah A. Smith, and provided first for the erec-
tion and operation of a beautiful playhouse and
playground in East Fairmount Park, opened to
the public just fifty years ago this past summer.
Some twenty years later, after careful study and
consultation with other recreation and social agen-
cies in Philadelphia, the trustees began to acquire
and develop several effective play centers in the
congested areas of the city.

In 1921, while serving as Commissioner of
Charities for the City of Schenectady, New York,
Mrs. Valentine was called to Smith Memorial.
Because of her broad background of knowledge
and training in the field of social work, and her in-
tense interest in healthful and happy recreation for
the city child, she was appointed executive direc-
tor of the project. Since then, she has carried the
responsibility for the general supervision of the
projected plans of the founders of the trust.

Mrs. Valentine has interpreted the purpose of
the founders as not just to keep children off the
streets, but to demonstrate the value of education
through play—education not only in arts, crafts
and sportsmanship, but also in the rarer art of liv-
ing, working and playing together with friendship
and good will. She believes that the intangible in-
fluence of this experience in the lives of thousands
of children is the real memorial to the founders.

Mrs. Valentine’s constant effort to keep high the
personnel standards of her project has been a re-
warding contribution to its success. To bring max-
imum benefits to the thousands of children using
the centers, she has felt that all leaders should have
as much preparation and experience as possible in
the fields of recreation, education and social work.
With the spirit of a pioneer in good works, Mrs.
Valentine also has contributed helpfully through
active board and committee work to other fields of

OCTOBER 1949

social welfare. For many years she has had a deep
interest in recreation in children’s institutions, and
has frequently attended the national recreation
congresses. By the appointments of several Penn-
sylvania governors, she has served on the Board
of Mothers’ Assistance and on the Philadelphia
Board of Public Assistance. Other fields of active
interest have included the blind, the aged, the ju-
venile delinquent and the minority groups.

Now that she has retired from active duty, Mrs.
Valentine will have more time for many of her
other personal interests, such as taking simple
nature walks or poking around in roadside antique
shops. Her countless friends wish her much hap-
piness and contentment.

In ever,~ field of sport in Plok's‘
sionnir Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball, in Universities,
Colleges and High Schools. ‘n Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Go'dsmilh Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hall-
«aan of quality and unvarying
performance.

 

361

MOVIES

Just What You Need for Your

Recreational and Educational
Programs . . .

 

DULUTH, MINN.

Carefully Selected
FEATURES 0 CARTOONS o COMEDIES

Only the Best in
SPORTS o CAMPING o NATURE STUDY

ARTS and CRAFTS

Widest Selection of FREE FILMS

TRAVEL 0 SCIENCE o VOCATIONS
Many in Color

:5
=
E
0
t:

:2.
L4
:3
o
9—!
U!
‘2
'E.
H
'.'.."'
o
,1)
K
o
.c
.c
2
.2:
p-i-q

Write today for the new
1949 - 1950 Catalog of

SELECTED MOTION PICTURES

ASSOCIATION FlLMSi

m Tm T9 MAW 3 SAN “HELKD 2 DEERE 4
35 West 45!!! 5|. 206 50. Michigan Ave. 351 Turk SP. 30!? Map?! Avenue

of Diamond Pitching Horseshoes and Accessories.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

Write for your catalogue showing complete line
4614 GRAND AVENUE

Packages make excellent displays for windows

01' COUIitCI'S.

co
=
o
33
W
.E
'1':
o
.a:
2
b.
2
a:
o
0
V}
H
"u:
1—3
:3
O
“U
c:
o
E
Q
~
:5
Z

round- ~27 inches long.

wooden boxes.
shoes and two painted stakes. Stakes are 1. inch

on
El:
Im
U
I__LLI
:0
I
._l
53
U)
Ea:
u-O
0::

a
z
O
2
<
a

 

This pepular ball resists the wear and tear of every kind of rough surface. It combines
quality with economy for top performance. v v r The patented cover formula and processing
adds years to its life. Another “Best by Test” reason for specifying Vi’intark. Official in
weight, shape and size—it has beauty and balance. A TOP PERFORMER in play and economy.

BUY THE BEST—GET THE MOST FOR YOUR MONEY

A

W WEAVER WINTARK SALES co. ..was:assesses?

 

362 RECREATION

J. Edward Hargraves

. EDWARD HARGRAVES, well-known city recrea-

tion director, died in his native Chattanooga,

Tennessee, on August 5, 1949, at the age of forty—
six, after a heart illness of less than a day.

Mr. Hargraves attended Chattan00ga public

schools and the University of Chattanooga, later
taking graduate studies in business and law. He
was associated with the Chattanooga public school
system for sixteen years as teacher and coach,
serving part of this time as director of recreation
for the city. Since 1934, the year of his appoint-
ment as director, he had done much to give Chat-
tanooga a good public recreation system and to in-
crease the city’s interest in, and enjoyment of,
organized amateur sports.
‘ In all of his work Mr. Hargraves kept before
him, as one of the important objectives, equal rec-
reation opportunities for Negro and white citizens.
Only a few days before his death he had the pleas-
ure of seeing a new public golf course opened for
the Negroes.

Mr. Hargraves believed heartily in adequate
training for recreation. It was his custom to ar—
range for leadership training institutes for his staff
each year. He wrote the National Recreation As—
sociation earlier this year: “It is my thought that

OCTOBER 1949

 

no department of recreation can travel any faster
or obtain any height beyond the individual train-
ing and efficiency of the staff.”

The interests of Mr. Hargraves were broad and
varied. An ardently active lay worker in the Meth-
odist church, he was also active in the Optimist
Club where he had served as president and as dis-
trict governor. Locally he served the Optimists
so effectively as chairman of the Boys’ Work Com;
mittee that he recently had been appointed pro-
fessional advisor on boys’ work for Optimist Inter-
national. He was active in meetings convened by
the National Recreation Association, serving as a
discussion leader at the National Recreation Con-
gress in Omaha last year and as a session chair-
man at the T ri—State Recreation Conference in
Jackson, Mississippi, in March of this year.

Prominent in athletic circles in the southern
district, Mr. Hargraves had served as district
chairman for the Amateur Athletic Union, com-
missioner of the Southern Basketball League,
southern director of the American Baseball Con—
gress, president of the Tennessee-Georgia Base-
ball League and of the Times Twilight Baseball
League. Friends and colleagues of Ed Hargraves
will always remember him as a friend of youth.

363

 

Stories to Read and Tell

Something Old, Something New, by Dorothy Can-
iield. \Villiam R. Scott, New York. $2.50.

Feasts and Frolics, selected by Phyllis R. Fenner.
Alfred A. Knopf, New York. $2. 50.

Now THAT PROGRAMS are moving indoors, story-
telling is more than ever in order, and leaders
will be pleased to know that two new, very good
books have just been published.

In Something Old, Something New, Dorothy
Canfield, one of our best storytellers, retells fa-
vorite family stories of real people with a warmth
which makes the pioneer spirit come alive. The
tales she relatesusome romantic, some heroic,
some humorous—depict the lives of the people
who were and are America.

Feasts and Frolic: is a delightful collection of
stories which will transport you to many different
worlds. In this book you’ll find special stories for
Special days—Easter, Thanksgiving, Independence
Day and fourteen others—which can be enjoyed on
other days of the year as well.

Shower Parties for All Occasions

By Helen Emily \Vebster. The W oman’s Press,
New York. $3.00.

N A LIBRARIAN, Miss Webster must answer re-
quests for all kinds of information, and she
has observed an increasing demand for shower—
party ideas in recent years. Her book, therefore,
is an answer to this need.

Successful parties do not just happen, but are
planned so carefully that the details are not ap—
parent and the activities appear to happen spon—
taneously. “Simply a born hostess,” guests are
heard to say after a delightful evening, unaware
that planning is the basic secret.Here, however,

364

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

Miss Webster has assembled a collection of ideas
and suggestions for unusual parties which not only
goes into pre—party planning but shows that they
may be inexpensive and easy-to-give as well as
entertaining.

Actually, the parties covered include not only
engagements, but anniversary, baby, going away
and birthday celebrations, complete with unique
themes, decorations, games, menus. A chapter,
“Set the Stage for Fun,” gives detailed instruc-
tions for making favors, place cards and decora—
tions for the table, walls and light fixtures.

Miss \Vebster’s familiarity with different parts
of the United States is-evident in the regional and
seasonal flavor which she has given to her party
ideas. Special hobby interests in such things as
books, photography, gardening and music also are
reflected throughout the book.

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

Rev. PAUL MOORE, J 1., First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary Of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEHIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N: J.
MRS. ROBERT \VOODS BLISS, \Vashmgton, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUHHER, Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAM H. DAvIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltunore, Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, F itchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. I , . Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia Pa.
CARL E. MILLIKEX, Au Sta I e.
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Voodbury, N. Y.
REv. PAUL MOORE, JR., Jersey City, N. J.
MRS. SIGHUND STERN, San Franc15co, Calif.
GRANT TITSWORTII, Noroton, Conn.

. C. \VALSH, New York, N. Y.

REDERICK M. W'ARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EHLERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

October 1949

Lakes Charles, Louisiana 0. D. Johnson, Superintendent of Recreation, City

October 3—7

Baton Rouge, Louisiana
October 10-14

Evansville, Indiana
October 24-28

Montpelier, Vermont
October 31-November 11

Baltimore, Maryland

October 3-7
October 10-14
October 31-November 4

Dallas, Texas
October 3—7

Austin, Texas

October 10-14

Houston, Texas
October 17-21

Morgan City, Louisiana
October 24-28

Texarkana, U.S.A.
October 31-November 4

Arlington Virginia
October 10-21

Kansas City, Missouri
October 24-November 4

Rustburg, Virginia
October 10-14

Winston Salem, North

Carolina
October 17-28

Hall

R. M. Hileman, Superintendent, Recreation and Park
Commission, 115 St. Louis Street

S. I. Medlicott, General Secretary, Y.M.C.A., Fifth
and Vine Streets

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recrea-
tion, State House

Miss Ethel Sammis, Assistant State Supervisor of
Physical Education and Recreation, 1201 O’Sullivan

Building

W. H. Keeling, Superintendent of Recreation, Dallas,
Texas

Beverly S. SheHield, Director, Austin Recreation De-
partment

Arnold R. Moser, Superintendent of Recreation, 501
City Hall

George Buckley, Superintendent of Recreation, City
Hall

Alba I. Etie, Jr., Superintendent of Parks and Recrea-
tion, Municipal Building

Mrs. Ruth V. Phillips, Department of Recreation,
Arlington County, 3700 Lee Highway

2’

Mrs. Verna Rensvold, Superintendent of Public Recre-
ation, City Hall

Miss Fay Moorman, Chairman, Recreation Commit-
tee, Campbell County School Board

Loyd B. Hathaway, Superintendent of Recreation

Write or wire for prices
on these KOLITE balls

4 Basketball
v/ Football
J Soccer Ball

WITH THE KOLITE* COVER

 

To the body of the famous Seamless 580
Basketball we have added the remarkable
new KOLITE cover that “stays new” longer

than leather and will not mark the court.

Kolite, a basically new abrasion-resistant
rubber compound—the ultimate in rubber
cover material—gives you 3 advantages—

"1? Tougher than ordinary rubber!
'2 Looks and feels like fine leather

-—yet more durable!
3] 100‘: waterproof—scuE-proof!

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877 A :1. '

ATHLETIC GOODS DIVISION

'I'IIE SERMIESS IIIIBEEII IZIIMIIANV

NEW HAVEN 3, CONN" U. S. A.

 

Koljte stands up in all kinds of weather
—hot or cold, dry or wet . . . will not peel
or crack . . . is not affected by oil or grease

. maintains “new ball” shape and feel
for years.

Every Seamless Athletic Ball is fabric-
stripped for long life and cord-wound to
keep perfect shape. Patented all-rubber
Kantleek valve and bladder . . . TOP quality,

priced right. Order now!
*Patent pending.

 

REG.
U. 5.
PAT.
OFF.

