 

Contents

 

M31195.

ToA-AniEaxope,CAEamAkwcgg-363
mil-r3 1m  ........... -- 464
thFmpcm“ 4&6
 469


0.331-019.2- . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 479

P. Ohio: . . . _ . . . _ . . . . . -- 473
WthM..... 475
Am" “M‘BalilAI-Jtrdm"

 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 437
Bli‘mddxmr -h 

 . . . . . . . . .. 473
 . . . . . . -- J81
MP” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- 482
Tdcvi 730- Tm‘ in (mm M

me . . . . . . . . . . . .. 483
Shell-c}?de . . . . . . . . . _ . . . _ .. 484
Suggestionsforl’hy—

hPainling . . . . . . . . . . . . . a . n . . ._ 435

h:' _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ . . .. 437
MH-Trtmbi-Cz-p’ng.

“H.313! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- 43
Cdthth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 491

PmplcthAr-y
WM: . . . . . . . . . . . .. (€93
RWforlthWSoldier,
ukaAB-iahop . . . . . . . _- 494
AnaimFokDmcFestird,
Elihu-KW . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .59].
hikFldd~WMEMHH 503

mm

Worlds-[Play . . . _ . . . . . . . . _ . _ . . . . “4592

Suggestio-Box . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ . “499

Magazinesde . . . . . . . . . “5.6

MWd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “5.6

Ncwm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- 507

WTM Institules
Inside Bad: Came-r

mm (H33: ‘3:- are Enadlnaa Km- ainnmmaw 10: H-
Itowan, Them Samantha: Dime!!!— {PIPE 1&2; navy Sci-Dds
Martin-n... wage m; Kasaian Sm M5 M1. page *9:
Megan, “human. BIZ... mag:- 83; OEu'id 361mm mi
815nm» Huang-trig {page 3'96; M Spec“ Swine-r... gauges a;
an]! £92.

“linen-imbue”

To 3 (Hi. “’13:” is :n mic-'9'-
hilless. for it is be business no"
E‘s-z." _ '” 5
Mi

he “ii-Jed for an al—
.‘Ei-ns far my, pages 4.64327.
mum ans-suing Iui' New 37015: 3553' Fans.

 

 

MEN'ng WhéltNmiua-EH Was mammme Playgmnaa'md 2.2m Assn":-
MdmmmbmmWhmmmmmsni EmmhAmmgNmYmrk HQNY; is
méikénpziiEclEhmrieszmifminamahéhrW”sz&a S$scfg£1ms $533321. Emmedassecaaél-rilnsmmJ-me I12,
HmnmiheBMOEthwYmewY¢EkmaerAmdmi11579. chimagagmspaiamedgme
gnaw EmbS-m'icm 111%,, MdOmnlrm 31., 1199117,, and-hams my 11., 119211.

Wimg'lu 17335 PL #bg she Namde Wan Amomhmm, Hmmrjrmated
mm mm In. $. A.

WW m-m-m TEEN

macaw

 

Recreation

JANUAR Y 1 950

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

This Is Your World

Howard Braucher’s editorials
will continue through Volume
Forty-three. This one never

before has appeared in print.

 

OTHERSHCHURCH, SCHOOL, neighborhood recre-
ation center—can only help you in making
what you will of joy and strength in your world—
that part of the great big world that is immediately
about you.

What is there that you and others can wisely do
for me as an individual in helping me build joy
and strength in my individual recreation life; what
can you and others do to help me and my family in
my home recreation life; in the recreation side of
my church life, then in my recreation growth from
childhood throughout life in the school; and what
can the recreation center do in addition to helping
with the home, the church, the school, in addition
to creating an atmosphere of good fun, a spirit of
play that pervades all life but particularly the home,
the school, the church? What, in addition, are the
special tasks of the community recreation center?

Play space for the child to permit him really to
be a child; play materials that the home cannot so
well provide; opportunities for baseball, for ice
skating, for roller skating, for basketball, for swim-
ming; opportunities, times and places for singing,

IANUARY 1950

for acting in plays, for uniting with various general
larger groups to do what is most desired—there is
not time or space to list all that the community itself
must provide under modern civilization conditions
if children are fully to be children, men and women,
full-sized human beings. We do not want nor can
we afford half-children, half-men.

Yet we need to think carefully what each one of
us must do for himself in his own play life, in his
home life, what can and must be done for us by
others and more particularly by the community rec-
reation center.

Great as is the direct contribution of the park,
the playground, the recreation center, even greater
is the indirect contribution in inspiring us, in
showing us how to do for ourselves in our own indi-
vidual life, in the home, in the church, in the school,
even in our work life. The recreation center and
the recreation leaders help to keep eternally before
us the ideal of fully and permanently satisfying liv-
ing here and now; that we are not for most of the
days of our lives to live one-quarter or one-half; that
it is pretty largely our own fault if in our individual
lives and in the community we do not fully live from
day to day.

The truly great thing is building individuals and
groups as self-starters, as creative leaders so that
whatever happens around them they have inner
strength for joyous worthwhile living.

The contribution of our parks, our playgrounds,
our recreation systems, our park superintendents,
our recreation superintendents, our recreation work-
ers in keeping abundant living, comradeship ideals
constantly before us all is a major service to the

world. .
HOWARD BRAUCHER.

4-61

A good New Year! Oh, let us all begin it with cheerful faces turning to the light!
-—E. MATHESON

 

OPPORT UNITY

I took a piece of living clay,

And gently formed it day by day;

And molded it with power and art,

A young child’s soft and yielding heart.

I came again when years were gone,
It was a man I looked upon;

He still the early impress wore,

And I could change him never more.

—ANONYLIOUS

462 RECREATION

C. ALBERT ALTWEGG

9m I460“! 7/64/596-

You know how you always want to share the
things you love with the people you love? Well,
that’s why I’ve wished for a long time that I could
bring you over here to show you America.

I know you don’t know America, the America
I’m talking about. You can’t know another coun-
try, the real heart of it, without visiting it. . . .

That’s why I was wishing this evening that you
were here, visiting in our house. Because I’d have
liked to take you with me to the ball game over
in the park. I could have showed you a lot that’s
important about America, the America that we
love. I could have showed you the America that
the G.I.’s you used to see in Switzerland, at the
close of the war, were dreaming of when they got
homesick.

I was sitting here reading a magazine—thinking
about how I ought to be doing some work—when
I heard a lot of shouting and noise from the direc-
tion of Johns Hill Park, which is a block north
of us. I knew what it was—they were having a
ball game.

Well, there’s something about cheering and yell-
ing like that that makes it hard to stay away and
concentrate on the things you ought to be doing.
So I told myself I’d have plenty of time to wander
over and see some of the game and still come back
and do my work; I wouldn’t stay long, just long
enough to see what was going on.

It was a swell evening to be out. It had been
hot downtown today, but this evening it had
cooled off. There was a nice breeze blowing, and
the air felt just kind of soft to the touch. We do
have some times when the climate here in Illinois
can’t be beat, and tonight was one of them.

I wish you could have walked over to the park
with me . . . down the street with the beautiful
big trees towering black in the night overhead . . .
past pleasant homes, not big houses but homes,
most of them owned by the people who live in
them, set in-yards that are well kept, most of them

 

Reprinted from the Decamr, Illinois. Herald.

JANUARY 1950

TO AN AUNT IN EUROPE

with gardens out in back . . . there were lights
in a lot of the living rooms, and you could see
right in, because no shades or draperies were
drawn . . . and at a couple of houses you could see
people sitting out on their front porches. . . .
\Vell, anyway, I walked over to the park, and never
did come home until the ball game was over.

They were right in the middle of it. . . . Two
teams were playing softball . . . and it was soon
obvious that one was behind in the game. There
was quite a crowd there . . . men, women and kids
of all ages.

Well, as I say, the Dairy Kings were behind,
and so the crowd was cheering most for them.
That seems to be an American habit at games;
Americans just naturally seem to cheer for the
underdog, especially if he puts up a light and keeps
trying, and the Dairy Kings were trying.

SO every time the Dairy Kings would do some-
thing good, there would be a big cheer from the
crowd. And the poor Laborers took a terrific
razzing from the crowd; people yelled at them to
try to upset them and get them rattled. It was all
in good fun, with lots of joking and yelling re—
marks that the yellers thought were funny———and
sometimes they were, too.

But the Laborers still played a good game, and
the Dairy Kings never could catch them. When
the game finally ended, about nine-thirty, the
score was eighteen to ten, and the Laborers had
won. But the crowd wasn’t unhappy; they’d still
had a lot of fun and seen a good ball game.

After the game I walked back home, and I just
couldn’t resist sitting down and writing you a let-
ter to tell you how I wished you had been here.
Because this is what we think of when we talk
about America—not of the Marshall Plan and in-
ternational conferences with the Russians, but of
a softball game played by two teams of amateurs
that work around town in the daytime and play
at night for fun, and of a crowd of people who
live nearby and come to cheer for the losing team,
whoever’s playing.

That’s what I wish I could show you.

246%

LoEoIoSoUoRoE

N EDUCATIONALIST once coined the phrase that
A the twentieth century would be the chil-
dren’s century. It would perhaps be just as true
to say that it seems destined to be the Age of
Leisure. So we should include in the same expres-
sion a whole range of ideas, of experiments and
organizations, some favorable, others harmful to
us all, but where youth has a predominant position.

To demonstrate this I shall begin by consider-
ing the institutions which have been set up in
many countries during the last thirty years. To
take my own country, it was in 1936 that, as the
result of a great reform movement in the political
and social spheres in which the great mass of
Frenchmen had put much h0pe, a Ministry of
Leisure was created. The institutions which it
established still remain, and other agencies are
charged with deve10ping them, for the hope that
it had raised for my compatriots could not be
crushed. The Soviet Parks of Culture, the Nazi
“Kraft durch Freude,” and all the many efforts
to encourage the manifold activities that a man
can have outside his occupation, are other proofs
of the growing interest of the authorities in the
leisure of the individual.

This comparatively new governmental depar»
ture is only following the inspiration and guidance
of the various voluntary associations and especially
the youth organizations and youth movements,
many of which were originally “spare time” or-
ganizations. They strove to keep the young per-
son occupied outside his job; sometimes to cor-
rect the narrowness imposed by his economic and
social functions; sometimes only to divert him.

The diversity of leisure forms and their con-

 

Condensed from Work and Leisure, report of the International
Youth Conference in London. issued in 1949.

464

Excerpted from an ad-
dress by Monsieur Jean

Jonssellin of France at

the International Youth

Conference, London.

 

fiicting uses, more especially their exploitation
under Fascist regimes, has discredited the word
for some of us, who prefer the phrase “people’s
culture,” which demonstrates both its high human
value and the awe and carefulness with which we
should speak of it and use it.

But, before defining the true people's culture or
leisure, in keeping with the dignity of the individ-
ual, we must first analyze the form and present
function of the many types of leisure that we
know. This study will disclose, at the same time,
man’s most intimate desires and his most immi-
nent perils, as well as some of the influences which
make and mar him. \Ve shall see that very sim—
ilar, perhaps identical, tools in different hands can
free and ennoble him or crush and brutalize him.

Leisure Forms

“7 hat strikes us at first glance is the variety of
leisure forms. There is no facet of the human per-
sonality but is reflected in several forms of leisure.
For some, the enjoyment of leisure lies in the well-
being of the body at ease, of abandonment to
dreams or even to drowsiness; for others. it lies
in the glory of combating exhaustion or in achieve-—
ments requiring hardihood. Some will enjoy the
comfort of an armchair, and others the hardships
of the sea or the mountain ranges.

For some, leisure may be an opportunity for
complex research which will enrich the mind and
soul. They will read, ferret in libraries, attend
lectures, theatres and concerts, learn new skills to
increase their prospects and their capabilities;
while their colleagues may seem to have but one
concern———to escape in their leisure from anything
which makes demands or requires answers. Some
use the wireless, the cinema or reading as a stimu-

RECREATION

lant, others as a soporific. Some strive by their
handcrafts, their insatiable curiosity, ever to in—
crease their perceptivity ; while others seek only to
deaden it.

Equally contradictory statements can be made
on the social aspects of leisure. This man is pri-
marily anxious to secure solitude, while that one
sees in leisure an opportunity for collective ac-
tivity—either as opportunity for service and full-
hearted intercourse or as the best means of losing
his identity in the crowd. The great variety, and
the contradictions of these leisure forms, lead us to
ask how we can define them. Contrary. to popular
belief, we cannot do it by stating that leisure is re—
laxing or restful activity in contra-distinction to
work.

If leisure sometimes brings rest, it also entails
great strain and even frantic exertion. For how
many is the only real weariness of the week met
with on the Sunday outing, putting the garden in
order or during a sleepless night devoted to some
study? Similarly, how many forms of leisure oc-
cupation are no more than work from which some
other person would be glad to be freed? Louis
XVI of France went in for lock making and his
wife, Marie Antoinette, played at being a shep-
herdess, while many of their subjects would have
liked to escape these jobs.

Function of Leisure

Passing from leisure forms to an analysis of
their function, we find equally startling contradic-
tions. The mathematician or strategist who plays
chess finds in it a kind of continuation of his
normal work and an opportunity for practice; cer-
tain philosophers or theologians of my acquaint-
ance find in reading detective stories an opportu-
nity to bring their reasoning powers into play. But,
on the other hand, how many there are who seek
an escape .from their normal state.

Leisure is anything which takes them away
from their office or their work room. Leisure is
like so many breaches in the wall formed by the
economic necessities of daily life. Through them,
some prolong their customary activity in other
forms, if not in the same; while others try to fight
the effects of their daily work. For these last, lei-
sure is really an act of revolt, an unconscious con-
demnation of their normal state. For some, this
rejection is expressed in a choice of hobbies which
helps a man to find himself anew. But for others,
despair — doubtless unacknowledged — no longer
permits any choice; leisure then is only pursuit of
forgetfulness and debasement. Some leisure forms
indeed are truly nihilistic; not only does a man
lack the will or the ability to choose—worse, he

JANUARY 1950

refuses to try.

For others, midway between these two groups,
leisure appears as a kind of compensation to work.
The sedentary worker and town dweller, surfeited
with the monotony and settledness of their life,
stride across country, undertake violent physical
exercises, read travellers’ tales or watch them on
the screen. A worker, disappointed at being only
a manual laborer, will throw himself upon any
printed text and embrace every opportunity for
discussion, while an intellectual will prefer to un-
dertake tasks requiring great dexterity. A

Starting from the Marxist analysis, we should
find that leisure activities are the necessary and
spontaneous reaction of the man who will allow no
diminution of his stature and who, by this com—
pensatory activity, liberates in himself potentiali-
ties which were either forgotten or near atrophy.
N 0 one will agree to being stunted or reduced to
a mere thinking or producing machine; whenever
he has the opportunity, he restores his balance by
finding in life what his daily work denies him.
Only if he is too badly hurt, or if his inner ener-

_gies are exhausted or destroyed, will he abandon

this search for harmonious life.

This description includes all the varied defini—
tions of leisure, all its forms, from those which
manifest themselves merely as rest after strain to
those which call upon the creative powers. In
every case, it is a question of defending the integ-
rity of the human being. Only when it is injured
in its innermost self does the mechanism, as though
out of order, resort to activities which increase the
disintegration of personality. . . .

Here we wish to stress two problems closely
connected with those of leisure: its relation to
work, and . . . the necessity for every authority to
have a real leisure 'policy.

As far as work is concerned, we must agree that
it is in proportion as man is dissatisfied with
his occupation that he cannot live without leisure.
Man’s work, whether intellectual or manual, is ex-
pressed in every language by two words—the first
originally meant a strenuous effort undertaken un—
der duress; the second, work that one liked be-
cause it offered fulfillment—labor and work. . . .

We can therefore clearly perceive that man is
both laborer and worker, but that leisure becomes
more indispensable in proportion as labor exceeds
work. . . .

Every authority must indeed insure its citizens
the means of harmonious development. We must

examine each case to see what has been intended
for man’s good. . . . taking man as a whole—
mind, body and soul and social being as well. . . .

465

 

OCATED IN Trail Creek Valley, near Michigan
City, Indiana, on the southern tip of Lake
Michigan, are the world-renowned International
Friendship Gardens. Covering one hundred and
fifty acres, parts of the gardens are wooded, with
other areas open to the summer suns, stretching
along on either side of the Creek.

In these gardens live two brothers, Joe and Vir-
gil Staufier, who have been responsible for the
development of a unique idea—and whose own
daily toil have made it take form. Having left the
commercial world because they were denied con-
tact with nature and growing things, they evolved
a fantastic plan which since has been realized and
has provided them with an abidlng satisfaction:

The brothers had traveled widely and visited
many places of fioral beauty, both private and pub-
lic, in America, Europe and the Orient. As they
looked about them, there grew in their minds, and
in that of their younger brother Clarence, a mag-
nificent dream. They hoped to build an array of
gardens that would unite the whole world in a
common understanding. They dreamed of finding
an area rich in natural beauty, and of turning it
into a series of many gardens, filled with rare How—
ers from far distant parts of the world. It would
be a place where people from near and far might
find enjoyment and beauty and forget the curse of
war in a world tranquil in itself.

So powerful was their determination to carry
out this idea that plans were made to devote all of
their time to the effort of creating something per-
manent—something that would stand for centu-
ries. Search for a perfect site was launched.

In 1933, the Century of Progress Exposition in
Chicago presented an ideal opportunity to try out

466

THE 1’

INTERNATIoN

Rehearsal for “Barter-ed Bride” in theatre which has capacity audiences.

this idea in a small way, when the Stauffers were
invited to participate. Six weeks before the expo-
sition opened, they rushed material—soil, trees,
rocks and plants—to a barren, sandy waste on
Northerly Island. A mill house was erected, water
wheel placed, sluiceway adjusted and, with the
touch of a button, water came Splashing over the
turning wheel, in view of three million visiting
people. Swans, water lilies and varieties of aquatic
plants, along with trailing vines, hugged a land-
scaped area as though they had been there for
many years. Flowers bloomed in great profusion;
there were pools of crystal-clear water, and streams
among the rocks. Fame of this quiet spot quickly
spread among exposition visitors. ,

The 1934 fair found the garden lovelier than
ever. It had a new significance, for the brothers
had invited three hundred of the world’s eminent
and distinguished people to become a part of what
was later to become the International Friendship
Gardens. The favorite Howers of kings, presidents,
queens, scientists, artists and others from a wide
variety of countries were represented.

It was most interesting to note the spirit which
prevailed among these people of many nationali-
ties, as they responded to the call for friendship.
Among the long list of those who cooperated were
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, King Gustav V, Lloyd
George, Lady Astor, Neville Chamberlain, Jan I.
Paderewski, John Barton Payne, Queen Marie,
Henry Ford, Queen \Vilhelmina, Archbishop of
Canterbury, Jane Addams, the heads of all South
American governments except Argentina, and
scores of others. His Excellency, M. A. Foranghi,
prime minister of Persia, stated, “It seems to me
that, in the worship of beauty and art, all nations

RECREATION

lllNllSlllP GARDENS

of the world are unanimous.” Many were the per-
sonal greetings and official statements which re-
main a part of the gardens’ early history.

At the close of the exposition, the garden was
uprooted and stored for its future home. While
the long search for a site had taken the brothers
far and wide, and some years, the ideal site at last
was found within only fifty miles of their home.
Here meadows were completely surrounded with
wooded hillsides. The land abounded in native
trees, teamed with vines that gave it a tropical ap-
pearance. Age-old oaks, elms, beach, pine, maples
and tall sentinel tulip trees added a solemn maj-
esty. Ravines, through which trickled streams,
sun-warmed depressions, bogs filled with native
wild flowers—all became part of the present gar-
dens.

In 1936, leases were obtained for the property,
and work was started. The Federal Government,
in its initial participation, contributed the Alaskan
building—the only building it actually owned at
the Chicago Exposition. This became the admin-
istration building, as well as the residence of the
two older brothers, as they supervised the many
details of the development.

The wooded ravines and hillsides were allowed
to stand untouched, with no attempt to improve
nature’s handiwork. The sheltered depressions and
meadows were gradually transformed into both
formal and natural gardens—with broad expanses
of landscapes uniting them. One of the two land—
scapes has become the huge amphitheatre of the
Gardens of the Nations. These garden sites are
available for the purpose of building gardens rep-
resentative of foreign nations, without cost, for a
period of ninety-nine years. Upon the completion

IANUARY 1950

The successful realization of a unique idea

of such gardens, proper ceremonies are held with
representative dignitaries of the various countries
officiating.

In this amphitheatre of national gardens there
exists a serenity. Here are Norway, Turkey, Ger—
many, Sweden, England—with the atmosphere of
the true English garden, Scotland—with its char-
acteristic Cradle Fence, and Greece—with an all-
evergreen garden symbolic of Grecian mythology.
France, too, with its maze of formal blooms, is on
this broad, green path and, fittingly, French climb-
ing—roses cover the cathedral niche for statuary.

Australia, Holland, Canada and Poland are rep-
resented as the path leads to the council chamber,
built out-of—doors, where the nations may take
council together. The chamber is like a great ca—
thedral, with a mirror-pool placed in the entrance
hall, guarded on either side with well-kept spruce
hedges. Cedars are a lacy backdrop for a grassy
stage, constructed to accommodate a full orchestra.
Known to the visiting public as the Symphony
Garden Theatre, it is entirely of landscape art,
with no hard walls or masonry. Convention groups
use it for meetings, as do garden clubs—-—or they
may choose a more informal meeting place, the
Elm Terrace.

Occasionally, during the second world war, a
visitor would object to having a German garden,
but became satisfied when once he understood that
these gardens do not represent the warring people,
but rather the friendly people of all nations. The
Italian garden was the first to be completed, and
is now twelve years old. With its mirror-pool,
replicas of columns of the Roman Forum, statuary,
and phlox and roses planted in formal design, it
reflects native art. The Chinese garden is filled

467

with a characteristic moon-bridge, pools, water-
falls and plantings proudly reflecting the good
wishes of an ancient people. Lin Sen, the late presi-
dent, and General Chiang Kai-shek, with others,
were responsible for their part in this “one world.”

The major rose planting is in the Persian rose
garden with its blooms numbering from thirty-five
to forty thousand, permeating the air with a fra-
grance that attracts the many visitors at eventide,
when the gardens are the most enjoyable. Then
everything is fresh, for flowers, too, are glad in
the cool evening air of summer time. There are
roses in every garden, for they are the chosen
flower of all. A poll among all countries has shown
that thirty-five percent—the largest group—love
the rose.

Garden lovers enjoy the long paths of velvet
green strewn with falling petals. They encounter
rustic bridges spanning streams deep below. The
peal of historic bells are heard along the way.
\Vith belfries and sexton’s rope hung low, ringing
becomes every child’s delight. Hanging in a Nor-
mandy bell tower is a bell that is said to have once
hung in Barbara Fritchie’s town, Frederick, Mary-
land. Reminiscent of Civil \Var days, it now has
been dedicated to peace and friendship.

It is the boast of those who visit the gardens
that they are one of the loveliest floral enterprises
in the world. Starting with early spring, dazzling
displays of tulips—some left of the 200,000 which
were a gift from Holland a few years ago, and an-
other gift of 25,000 from the Associated Bulb
Growers of Holland are a pageant of incom-
parable color. On May seventh, the date for the
annual opening, the gates admit thousands who
come to enjoy the beauty of the “Tulips on Pa-
rade”—a tradition of the gardens. The tulips are
not only exceptional in color and variety, but are
presented in a scientific display, which contributes
to public information and offers opportunity for
the observation essential to proper tulip culture.

The Garden of Gardens, once offered _as the site
for the United Nations, is now an ever-changing
profusion of floral displays and designs. F lower-
ing bulbs and perennials are rapidly supplemented
with thousands of annuals to keep the floral ex-
hibition in all its splendor.

Music plays an important part in the gardens in
“Music Under the Stars” concerts, featuring stars
of the concert and operatic fields. In the Theatre
of Nations, with the sky as its proscenium, five
thousand spectators may enjoy opera, pageantry,
symphonies, the International Music Festival and
events of international and religious nature. The
amphitheatre, studded with great, tall oaks, elms

 

468

 

The formal site of many international performances.

and pines, interspersed with flowering dogwood,
has seen many capacity audiences.

No provision has been made for the audience in
case of unexpected darkening of the skies, and the
more than gentle falling of rain. Even though um-
brellas are the customary adjunct of attendants,
only twice out of fifty major performances was it
necessary to postpone the performance until the fol-
lowing evening. In one case it was the very elabo-
rate production of “The Bartered Bride,” when l ’o-
votna, Bartlett, Marlow and others from the Met-
ropolitan Opera were appearing. The postpone-
ment almost doubled the cost of the performance,
a thing the committee in charge tries to prevent.
The other was the International Music Festival to
which contestants come five and six hundred
strong. Last minute arrangements to accommo-
date that number of people is, indeed, a problem.
The major purpose of the International Friend-
ship Gardens Music Festivals, Incorporated, a
non-profit corporation, is to assist young and
worthy talent to successful positions.

Plans for the future include a Pageant of Light,
with myriads of color effects which will be accented
with lighting of a great variety of densities and
color, and supplemented with musical effects which
will make this a fairyland at night.

This enterprise has required lavish contributions
by its creators from the beginning. Now well
established, it will be perpetuated as a foundation
under the guidance of a board of governors, trus-
tees and directors. Even though progress is con-
tinual in this endeavor, to the visitors of today,
the International Friendship Gardens already pro-
vide a paradise of flowers created in the interest
of all people.

RECREATION

N. v. ESWAR of Madras, India

mace in the NEW jnbia

HE DANCE IS considered a divine art in India.

It is, therefore, symbolic and expressive of
the spiritual, rather than of grace and beauty. It
is believed that Bharat, who was the first ruler of
the Indian subcontinent, is the author who orig-
inally outlined its dancing technique. For the most
part of the last few centuries, this art remained
confined to a particular sect of temple worship-
pers, where, in course of time, it became so rou-
tine and mechanical that the technique of the art
was practically lost.

Memory of the vast heritage could not, how-
ever, be so easily obliterated for the reason that
the various techniques employed were left carved
on rocks in caves, on stone walls, and pillars of the
temples, notably in the south. Accelerated by the
renaissance movement that spread over the entire
Indian landscape with the advent of Ghandi, every-
thing native that lay submerged was unearthed.
And in this unearthing, the art of the dance, a]-
most lost to India, was rediscovered.

There was a simultaneous and spontaneous re-.

vival of dancing all over India. The dance form
today is literally coursing along five different chan-
nels—~Kathak, Manipuri, Marwari, Bharata Nat-
yam and Kathakali. As in every other facet of the
Indian renaissance, the great poet Rabindranath
Tagore and his Shantiniketan Institution also had
a share in reviving dancing as an art, and finding
for it its rightful niche in Indian life. Almost si-
.mu1taneously, the famous dancer Uday Shankar
was searching every nook and corner of India for
help in perfecting Indian dancing.

The North Indian techniques appeared more phys-
ical and sensual ; the Indian spiritual touch was miss-
ing in them. Shankar found something spiritual in
Bharata N atyam, but only when he came to Mala-
bar did he see the perfect Indian touch in Katha-
kali—nthe dance-drama which was then lingering
between life and death. 'Retaining everything vital
in it, he took off all the local trappings from Kath-
akali and presented it to India and the world in the
most desirable modern garb.

Uday Shankar’s success made Indians sit up
and visualize dancing as part of life. He showed

JANUARY 1950

them what a vast heritage had remained submerged
in India through preceding centuries, and enthu-
siasm was fired. Numerous dancing schools sprang
up all over the country. Dancing has now come to
be regarded as one of an Indian girl’s essential ac-
complishments.

Shantiniketan in Bengal, Kerala Kalamandalani
run by the poet Vallathol in Malabar, Kalakshetra
run by Rukmini Devi at Adyar, keep the dance art
in India not only alive, but flourishing. Such fa—
mous Indian stars as Menaka, Ramgopal and Na-
traj Vashi have been thrown into the firmament.
And more are on their way.

The majority of dance themes is drawn from
legends and lores familiar to everyone in India.
The technique consists of conveying the latent idea
through signs of the fingers, movements of the
limbs, eyes and muscles, and by facial expressions.
Shankar demonstrated that, apart from being mere

' entertainment, the dance has an everyday signifi-

cance in life. He devised his own ballets in which
problems confronting national life were interpreted.
His ballets on labor and machinery and the com-
munal question, which agitated political India all
these years, were without parallel.

The trail has been picked up by others in line.
Today Indian dancers have almost discarded the
legendary moorings. Dancing has now come to be
used to reflect and interpret life as it could and
should be. The departure in presentation is very
well received and is proving a tremendous success.
It proves that the dancer is a cultural ambassador
interpreting the beauties and purpose that flow
through life. It is this realization that prompted
sending Ramgopal and his troupe overseas under
the auspices of the UNESCO, as cultural ambas-
sadors of India.

In Bombay, Hima Kesarkodi and her troupe of
dancers are interpreting the New India that came
to life on August 15, 1947. The interest in this
form of dance is so great that it looks as though
a dancehall would become a permanent feature—
at least in Bombay, Calcutta and Madras—nwhere
dance recitals are almost seasonal.

469

CHARLES J. CHAPMAN

HE Bovs BROTHERHOOD REPUBLIC is the small-
T est republic in the world. It is the only republic
where the Mayor sweeps his own oflice, the coun-
cilmen dust their own desks, and the publisher
peddles his own papers.

It is a republic of boys, ages eight through eight-
een, on the lower East Side of New York City, in
the brick and mortar canyons of the vast Amer-
ican democracy. It is a democracy within a de—
mocracy, an experiment within an experiment. It
will continue always to be an experiment, for no
dynamic democracy can consider itself as the para-
gon of perfection.

Like the union of the “thirteen colonies,” the Boys
Brotherhood Republic had its beginning in an in-
spiration. Unlike the birth of other nations, how—
ever, it was born without the power to tax. It was
born in the midst of the poverty stricken and the
destitute. But it was born where the yearning for
freedom was strong in the hearts of men and wo-
men, where the Christian principles of neighborly
love and compassion for the underprivileged were
embraced as necessities of life, like air and food.

The Boys Brotherhood Republic credits Harry
Slonaker for its existence. In 1932 he came to the
slums of New York from the Chicago slums, where

470

 

The Sanitation Department lines up for inSpection
and assignment before and after recreation activities.

he had been a product of a similar experiment with
boys, and saw that the only difference between the
two was one of size. The boys were the same-—
tough, poor and ready to fight at the word “go”.
But, in their hearts burned tiny flames of‘ friend—
ship and generosity, waiting for someone to fan
them into blazing fires.

One day Slonaker took a walk down East Third
Street. It was a pleasant spring day, and he walked
slowly, casually towards the East River. \Vhen he
reached the corner of Avenue D, he came upon a
group of eight boys shooting dice in the street.
They were part of the same group he had seen be-
ing chased by a policeman the preceding day. Slo-
naker realized that such activities often constitute
the first step on the rungs of a twisted ladder lead-
ing to crime.

Knowing, too, that their energies could be di—
rected into other recreation channels, he approached
the boys, gained their confidence and talked with
them about the idea of getting a vacant store in
the neighborhood for a club, a recreation-athletic
club.

Just mention the word athletics to a lower East
Side boy, and he’s ready to put on a pair of box-
ing gloves or snatch a basketball and go wild with

RECREATION

The dramatic story of how a recreation program interested boys in democracy

joy. The idea took hold almost immediately. The
boys gathered around Harry, shook hands eagerly
and called him “club leader”. But he wanted to be
more‘than a club leader, and he wanted them to
do more than just play games in a gymnasium or
on a playground. He wanted them to gain the
same kind of love for democracy which he had
gained in his Chicago boys _club, and he knew that
recreation would interest youth in democracy.
After the vacant store had been rented and the
club started, Slonaker suggested the idea of self-
government. He explained the meaning of democ-
racy and told them that even boys could govern
themselves, could learn to cherish and protect their
own democracy in the United States if they wanted
to do so badly enough. They did. And they adopt-
ed the name of the Boys Brotherhood Republic be-
cause they were a government of boys who be-
lieved that boys everywhere are brothers. They

 

Board of Elections checks voters for registration,
hands ballot to citizen who casts vote behind booth.

chose the slogan “Whenever boys are in trouble,
we too are in trouble.”

Later, Slonaker was able to interest prominent
people in his experiment with boys. They scraped
contributions together and bought a vacant tene-
ment over which a mortgage for $7,000 still hangs
threateningly. The tenement became the “city
hall,” and the territory of the sovereign govern-
ment of the Boys Brotherhood Republic, 290 East
Third Street, New York, U.S.A.

IANUARY 1950

There also" were other boys clubs in that neigh—
borhood providing recreation and athletic facilities.
They did, and are still doing, commendable jobs in
holding down the incidence of juvenile delinquency,
but they often lacked one essential element—that of
making the boys aware of their obligations for
maintaining democracy.

The young citizens of the Boys Brotherhood
Republic wasted no time in getting their govern-
ment started. People in the neighborhood scoffed
at them and ridiculed their efforts. It made the
path pursued by Harry Slonaker stormy and diffi-
cult. However, the boys, now fortified by a reg-
istered citizenship of over fifty, called for an im-
mediate election of permanent ofhcers to establish
a government and to write a constitution. After
the elections were over, the boys who were elected
organized a government patterned on the mechan-
ical administration of an average American munic-
ipality and based on the constitutional tenets of the
United States.

The boy who received the highest number of
votes was elected mayor; ten councilmen were
elected along with a business manager, treasurer,
city clerk, judge, and district attorney. Meetings
were held immediately, and all government officers
had to attend. Rules for conducting meetings fol-
lowed closely the system of parliamentary pro-
cedure. These boys were being given a taste of
government of, by and for the people. There was
no longer anything vague and mysterious about
government; it became alive and real, and they
could tame it and handle it like a cowboy r0ping
a steer.

When the first term of office had ended, new
elections were held. Scoffmg neighbors became
smiling friends. Campaigning for the new elec-
tions was enthusiastic, and the eagerness of happy
boys swept through the neighborhood.

The experiment had proved itself. Mothers
urged their sons to “join up with the BER.” F a-
thers gave spending money, conditional upon their
sons becoming citizens of the new republic. The
Boys Brotherhood Republic was on its way.

- Through the years “supervisors” for the boys,
like Harry Slonaker, came and went. Each con-
tributed his share of knowledge, of adult leader-
ship to the republic. The boys and their organiza—
tion came to be well-known among boys in other
neighborhoods. The athletic teams of the Boys
Brotherhood Republic ran away with the field in
almost every competitive event. It had its own
bank and, whenever other boys got into trouble,

471

there was always a committee of citizens from the
republic around to see what they could do to help.

On several occasions juvenile courts released
delinquents into the custody of the citizens of the
Boys Brotherhood Republic. There are any num-
ber of causes for juvenile delinquency; but there
are only a few cures for it. \Vhen delinquents were
sent to become citizens of the republic, not a single
one failed to become a successful, decent citizen of
his community. The BBR gave delinquents three
things they needed most: friendship, respect and
responsibility.

Today, the republic, as any democracy which ex—
pands and progresses, is functioning under new
principles. These principles are based on past er-
rors, elements overlooked by former boys’ gov-
ernments and pointed out by Arne E. Larson, ex-
ecutive director of the republic since 1945. Mr.
Larson, a former officer in the Navy’s \Velfare and
Recreation Division, came to the republic after
\Vorld \Var II. \Vith almost thirty years of boys’
work experience behind him, he was able to point
out two basic errors in the administration of the
boys republic.

Because of one basic error, during the war, the
organization had deteriorated to a considerable ex—
tent. A group of selfish boys had corrupted the
republic’s honest efforts. \Vhen Mr. Larson took
over, he said: “Government can be good and gov-
ernment can be bad.”

He told them, “You had good government for
fourteen years because you had good boys under
good adult leadership. \Vhen your leadership left
to join the armed forces, the bad boys came in and
took over. \V e know there is no such thing as a
‘bad boy.’ But just as you couldn’t consider put—
ting boys on a basketball field without a coach,
you can’t expect boys to deve10p properly without
coaches to help show them how.”

He told the boys and the alumni of the republic
that what they needed now was trained men, lead-
ers experienced in working with boys. And, Mr.
Larson, not without some opposition to his new
principle of leadership guidance for self-govern-
ment, set about hiring a staff of young men, vet-
erans of the last war, trained in education and
boys’ work.

He also pointed out that the second serious error
of the past had existed in one of the constitutional
clauses since 1932, when boys under fourteen years
of age were excluded from citizenship in the re—
public.

“As a result,” Mr. Larson declared, “when older
boys who were trained in the traditions of the re-
public’s democracy had grown up and left, there

472

were no younger citizens around to inherit the rich
treasure of these traditions.”

It was important for the republic to take in
younger citizens. “Let’s register citizens at the
age of eight,” he suggested. “Let them learn from
the very beginning of their school year what it
means to govern themselves, to learn what you
have learned about democracy.”

His criticisms were recognized as sound and
constructive. The new principles were adOpted,
and the boys established two governments—an
Evening Government for boys from ages fourteen
through eighteen, and an Afternoon Government
for boys from ages eight through thirteen. Offi-
cers of the Afternoon Government have the same
titles as those of the Evening Government, except '
that a “Junior” is prefixed. Now, as older boys
grow up and leave the republic, there will be
younger ones to fill their places. The younger ones
are prepared for responsibility, are thoroughly fa-
miliar with meetings, procedures and “legal” ter-
minology. An eight-year-old boy knows the mean-
ing of quorum and “Mr. Mayor, I makeamotion.”

Recreation activities of the republic are carried
on just as extensively as in any other boys club.
Rules are established by citizen committees who
take charge of particular facilities, such as game
rooms and libraries, under an adult “staff advisor”.
The staff advisor is looked to for suggestions, ex-
perienced advice and coaching. Violations of the
republic’s laws are handled by a police department,
and violators are brought to trial before a jury of
their fellow citizens. Even a penal code exists so
that “too lenient” or “too harsh” judges are con-
strained from circumscribing the obligations of
their office. .

“The foundation of self—government,” Mr. Lar-
son adds emphatically, “is built upon a well-bal—
anced program of recreation activities at the Boys
Brotherhood Republic, from basketball to track,
from group games to picnics, from a gymnasium
and library to a game room, newspaper office, and
a wide range of arts and crafts. Emphasis is placed
upon boy—citizen participation in one or more
phases of our republic’s activities.”

One of Mr. Larson’s secret dreams is to start
a “toddle town,” a republic of pre-school age boys
to complete the cycle of self-government—from
cradle to the Afternoon Government; from the Af-
ternoon Government to the Evening Government;
from the Evening Government into the Govern-
ment of the United States.

The Boys Brotherhood Republic has proved,
with its “continuing experiment,” that there is a
place for democracy in recreation.

RECREATION

HARRIET P. CLINTON

Post High Sohool Youth

Wisconsin is the second state to hold a conference pre-
liminary to the 1950 White House Midcentury Conference
on Youth. (See Recreation, December, 1949.) Minnesota

was the first.

POST HIGH SCHOOL youth in most Wisconsin com—
munities is a forgotten age group, it was found by
the panel dealing with recreation and group work
services at the Governor’s Conference on Children
and Youth in Madison, Wisconsin, last spring.
Of the approximately 1,500 leaders, lay and pro-
fessional, who came to the conference from all
corners of the state, 175 participated in this panel.
A selected group of resource persons had worked
under the chairmanship of Professor Marvin Rife,
coordinator of recreation curriculum of the Uni—
versity of Wisconsin, for several weeks in advance
of the conference, sorting out recreation problems
of greatest importance and setting up an agenda
for the two-day panel. Declaring that the post
high school period is too important from the point
of view of personal, social and vocational adjust-
ment to be neglected, the findings of the group
pointed out that a large majority of youth do not
go to college and must find satisfying and chal-
lenging leisure-time experiences in the adult com-
munity of which they are to become a part.

Here are the complete findings on the situation:
a) All communities need to be more concerned
about adequate facilities and services for this age
group. It should not be left to the tavern, movie
house, public dance hall and other commercial en-
terprises to provide healthy and inexpensive rec-
reation for youth of this age.

b) The schools need to teach activities which will
have carry-over values beyond high school. In
addition, the school may need to give attention to
informal education and recreation services for
young men and women from eighteen to twenty-

 

Mz'sr Harrie; Clinton 2': eminent recretary of the Wis-
consin Governor’s Conference on Children and Youth.

JANUARY 1950

five years of age?
c) Youth needs to become a real part of the adult
community. Emphasis should not be so much upon
their adolescence as upon their striving for adult
maturity. Barriers to this development should be
broken down, and instruments such as post high
school youth councils should be encouraged.
Recreation activities fitted to the developmental
level and interests of youth by age range formed
the framework for pre-conference panel subcom-
mittee study. Upon the premise that the stresses
and strains of modern living, in both urban and
rural areas, make the wise use of leisure time an
important factor in personal and social adjustment,
these subcommittees divided their problem of the
betterment of children’s and youth’s recreation
services as follows: pre-school child; early school
child-*six to twelve years; teen-age youth; post
high school youth.

Pre-school Child

Recreation for the pre-school child should be
centered mainly in the home .and family. How—
ever, the need for group experience extends be-
yond the home, calling for neighborhood play pro-
grams. Parents need help in being able to lead
their children in these play experiences. Resources
in the community—such as the church, school, li—
brary, public recreation department and voluntary
agencies—should be utilized to aid parents in de—
veloping skills in play leadership.

Mothers, especially, should plan on a neighbor—
hood or block basis to cooperate in sharing leader-
ship responsibilities for these tiny children. Neigh—
borhood play lots, which are appropriate for this
age group and easily accessible, should be provided
by every community.

473

Early School Child

Among the findings on the recreation needs of
the early school child was that the school has a
great responsibility in providing experiences in
its curriculum which will give children the funda-
mental skills upon which to build satisfying life-
long recreation habits. The parent-teacher asso—
ciation can aid greatly, through its programs, in
educating parents on the values of sharing leisure-
time interests with their children.

The practice of developing midget teams and
other highly competitive types of activities, which
run counter to the broad values in recreation,
should be discouraged. Physical education teach-
ers, as well as others, should be free to develop
fundamental play skills and broad creative and co-
operative types of activities which contribute more
fundamentally to child development.

It was also found that the value of camping—
including family camping—at this age level, as an
extension of classroom education, needs to be ex-
plored and demonstrated in \Visconsin commu-
nities. I

Teen-age Youth

Six young people from different parts of \Vis-
consin made up a panel-within-a-panel and dis-
cussed what teen-agers, themselves, think about
leisure-time services. They concluded that:

a) Too often young people look upon the home as
merely a place to eat and sleep. There is a need to
relate recreation programs to the home and family.
b) Youth centers are valuable innovations in most
communities, provided that they give every youth
a sense of belonging and a real responsibility in
planning programs.

c) Democratic leadership is essential to the success

of all teen-age programs. This means youths and
adults working together on a cooperative basis.
d) Such democratic. leadership doesn’t just hap-
pen. There is need for training programs for stim—
ulating interest and developing skills and tech-
niques among volunteer leaders, through profes-
sional guidance.
e) Youth councils are essential as coordinating
bodies for youth activities in every community.
f) The gap between urban and rural youth needs
to be bridged. Enabling legislation in \Visconsin
now makes it possible to have county recreation
directors who can assist in closing this gap.

The final recommendations of the recreation and
group work panel were:
I. That the state establish a recreation consultant
service within the University of \Visconsin. (This
resolution was recommended to the Governor’s
Conference by the Wisconsin Recreation Council
and carefully studied by a pre—conference subcom-
mittee before it was adopted.)
2. That increased emphasis be placed upon fam-
ily and home-centered recreation at all age levels.
3. That the public schools of \Visconsin give more
opportunity to physical education personnel to
teach fundamental play skills and broad creative
recreation activities, rather than to continue to em-
phasize highly competitive team sports for the few.
4. That, in \Visconsin, “the playground of the
Middle \V est,” we need a great deal more empha-
sis upon the extension of camping activities in all
phases. This includes day camping, family camp—
ing. school camping, summer camps under private
and voluntary agency auspices, and municipal
camping. Camping as a fundamental human e. -
perience has much to contribute to the recreational
and educational life of the community.

“a
PM“

The following recommendations were suggested
by the State Recreation Committee of the Commu—
nity Services Section of the Ohio Commission on
Children and Youth in preparation for the 1950
\Vhite House Conference.

1. More adequate leadership with higher salary stand-
ards and higher qualifications for recreation execu-
tlves.

2. More land. buildings and other facilities; areas should
reach the minimum standard of an acre of land for
every 100 inhabitants.

3. More extensive use of public buildings.
4. Greater financial stability and support-.-

a. More funds with which to secure more facilities and
to extend the field of operation.

474

6. More legal encouragement of municipal public rec-
reation activities.

7. Better understanding among school and public officials
and also among the public at large as to the impor-
tance of and need of public recreation.

8. Better cooperation between public recreation workers
and workers in allied fields.

9. Extension of trained recreation leadership in rural
communities.

10. Development of recreation programs in institutions
for defectives, dependents, and delinquents.

11. Extension of the program more freely among the
foreign-born and colored populations with full utiliza-
tion of the contributions of these groups.

12. More research into the facilities, program, content,
- . and administration of public recreationx and the rela-
tionships of agencres administering public recreation.

RECREATION

 

ARENTS in Amsterdam, Holland, have united
P to provide much needed recreation for their
children, giving up their spare time to provide for
the leisure-time education of their own and their
neighbor’s youngsters. In most of the city’s play-
grounds, you will find Protestant, Jewish and
Catholic parents working together, with no diffi—
culties marring their cooperative spirit.

It was in the year 1900 that U.  Klaren, a
common workman, founded the first playground
in Amsterdam, a city of 800,000 inhabitants, cap-
ital of the Netherlands. He saw that the narrow,
dirty back streets, with ever-increasing traffic, and
the small, unhygienic dwellings provided no {it
space for children‘ to play. In spite of much oppo-
sition, he succeeded in securing a fenced-in plot
from the town council, and set it up with play-
ground apparatus.

Although it was very primitive at first, the chil-
dren had the opportunity to play there. This pio-
neer work. led to the development of more recre—
ation facilities, not only in Amsterdam, but also in
many other Dutch’ towns and communities. In
Amsterdam, the one playground has grown to
thirty-four, and plans exist to increase this‘num—
ber with the addition of twenty-five new recrea-
tion areas. -

All the city playgrounds have been equipped
with similar apparatus. Chutes, jungle-gyms,
swings, roundabouts and see-saws are found every-
where and, in recent years, special stress has been

M. Boon i: the director of playground: in Amrterdam.

JANUARY 1950

M. BOON

laid on providing equipment for common use.
There are large sandboxes for the infants, and am-
ple space for free and organized games.

Each playground is managed by a union, which
is sort of a district club, under certain rules laid
down by the town council. Only children of club
members are allowed on the play area, but the
subscription rate is very low—live cents a week—
so that every family can become a member. In this
way, we have obtained the parents’ cooperation for
a common cause—to provide a safe playground
near home. However, if they don’t wish to assist
in management, they do not have to do so.

Playgrounds, kept open the whole year round,
are for boys and girls up to fourteen years of age.
In winter, the children are kept busy with hand—
crafts, music, singing, musical plays, theatrical
plays, folk dances and physical training in the club—
houses located on the area. For organized games,
as well as for the other activities, courses are given
for the parents. In this way we can be sure that the
activities are conducted by technically and educa-
tionally responsible leaders. Very often exhibi-
tions, plays and parties—such as the traditional St.
Nicholas party on December sixth—are held in
the Clubhouses.

The town council grants a subsidy for the work
done on the playgrounds, saving a great deal of
money because the children who are enjoying the
playground activities are too busy to take part in
vandalism. Amsterdam has set a pattern in its
playgrounds which is followed by many of the
sixty—one communities in the country which have
a total of 249 recreation areas.

475

This story gives a glimpse of the musical education of
Australian school children on an ancient instrument which
is becoming more and more popular in our own country.
The ancient and modern combine in giving special pleas-

ure to children.

WWW 'WM/m/e/z ” gm

0 From Ringwood, fifteen miles from Melbourne,
in verdant, gently-rolling hills tOpped by the tall,
gnarled gums and bushy golden wattle of the Aus-
tralian countryside, and splashed with neat, cul-
tivated patches of the apple orchards, comes a re—
minder of the pre-Elizabethan days of old Eng-
land. Here, stealing across the shallow valleys,
can be heard the pale, silvery, high-toned notes of
a recorder band.

This recorder band forms an unusual feature of
Australian school life at the Ringwood State
School. Thirty-eight boys and girls, from a total
attendance of 3 50, comprise the band. The young-
est is seven years old; the eldest, thirteen. The
tiny tots are just longing to grow up so that they
can learn to play in the band like their big brothers
and sisters.

The children spend hours playing lively Elizabe-
than dances and airs, haunting Irish melodies, and
the classical simplicity of lullabies and sonatas of
Schubert, Bach and Brahms. Usually they prac-
tice out-of—doors in the school garden.

Linked with teaching the playing and care of the
recorders is the study of the literature produced
during the period when the music itself was written
several hundred years ago.

476

The name f‘recorder” comes from the obsolete
English verb, “to record,” which means “to war-
ble.” It was known from prehistoric days, when it
was probably used for luring birds to traps by imi-
tating their song. First evidence of the recorder is
in a French miniature of the eleventh century. The
recorder appears to have become first pOpular in
England in the sixteenth century.

In “Hamlet,” Shakespeare not only mentions the
instrument, but brings it onto the stage in full view
of the audience and makes his characters talk about
it, its music, construction and method of playing
During the performance of his plays, recorders
were used to provide some of the incidental music,
particularly when the scene was of a quiet, reli-
gious or mournful type.

The diarist, Samuel Pepys, who became clerk of
the king’s ships in 1660, mentions that he heard
some recorders at the theatre, and was so pleased
with their sweetness that he decided to learn to
play one himself. Hence this entry in his diary:

“April 8, 1668. To Drumbleby’s, and did

there talk a great deal about pipes, and did

buy a recorder which I intend to learn to play

on, the sound of it being of all sounds in the
tworld, most pleasing to me.”

RECREATION .

. WWW/m ggé/wll/W - . BE...

George Frederick Handel, born in 1685, was one
of the many famous composers who wrote music
for the recorder. His sonatas for the treble re—
corder are often performed nowadays, but the
recorder is no longer used in his oratorios, as he
intended it to be.

The period of popularity of the recorders dates
roughly from I 500 to I700. By the time Handel
died, in 1759, interest in them was declining, and
a hundred years later they were almost forgotten.
The chief reason for their disappearance lies in the
growth of the orchestra. The playing together of
different types of instruments was almost unknown
in Henry VIII’s time. It was found that the fuller
and larger tones of the modern flute combined bet-
ter with other instruments than the quieter tones
of the recorder.

For more than a century recorders were un-
known, and people forgot the art of making them.
Now they have been rediscovered.

The recorders that the children use are a modern
version of the old-type wooden ones. They are
made from a bakelite substitute with full chroma-

tic range of two octaves. Each child owns the in-
strument he plays.

 

Reprinted by permission of the California Parent-Teacher.

JANUARY 1950

 

F YOUR CITY has a tot lot located every eight or
I nine blocks, and if the number of polio cases
during the summer is never sufiicient to cause you
concern, don’t bother to read further. However,
if play areas for tots are a problem in your city as
in Peoria, Illinois, or if your city experiences a
polio epidemic as did Springfield, Illinois, last sum-
mer, a backyard and neighborhood contest may
prove to be a boon.

Such a contest was announced in Peoria last
spring because we have so little space that can be
restricted to the use of small children. During the
time we were making preparations for our contest.
Francis Shuster, superintendent of recreation in
Springfield, telephoned us to ask whether we had
any plans to put into effect in case of a polio epi-
demic during the summer. \Ve suggested the usual
radio programs, and added that we were planning
a backyard and neighborhood playground contest
which would afford play opportunities for children
near home, where contact with a large number of
children could be avoided.

As it happened, when the director of public
health in Springfield quarantined all children up to
sixteen years of age, the backyard and neighbor-
hood playground contest in this city of 90,000,
which started as a result of that telephone conver-
sation, filled the void. Four hundred and six en-
tries poured into the recreation ofiice and kept a
field team, under Robert \Vagner, a live-wire ele-
mentary school principal, busy distributing infor-

mation and advice right up until the close of the'

contest on August twenty-sixth.

In planning this type of contest a number of
problems should be recognized at the outset:

1. Parents must be made to understand the need
for play space at home, and their apathy must be
overcome. Once started, most parents become
wholeheartedly interested. One father in Peoria
decided to clean up a long unused pigeon coop for
the children to use as a play house, and ended up
by lining the building with knotty pine and furnish-
ing it with some deluxe children’s furniture.

2. Newspaper and radio publicity alone, no mat-
ter how much of it you are able to obtain, will only
move a few parents to build playgrounds in their
backyards.

3. Most parents have but a few ideas regarding
equipment and apparatus to place in their yards,
but need additional ideas and plans showing exact
specifications of materials. \Vith a plan in front of
him, it becomes much more difficult for Dad to
put off building that sandbox for Junior.

Mr. Buerée i: Juperimendem of recreation in Peoria.

478

Backyard ai

\

The following outline of the various steps in
conducting our contest in Peoria may be of assist-
ance to you if you decide that your city should have
a backyard and neighborhood playground contest:

I. The Greater Peoria Civic Association agreed
to sponsor the contest, to furnish $200 in prize
money and to pay the cost of printing 4,000 back—
yard and neighborhood playground contest book-
lets. In your city the sponsoring group might be
the Association of Commerce or the Junior Cham—
ber of Commerce.

2. we prepared a booklet of eight pages, size
eight and one—half by eleven, with an attractive
cover. It contained information divided into the
following sections:

a. \Vhy build a backyard or neighborhood play—
ground?

b. How to build a backyard or neighborhood play-
ground (general suggestions).

c. Suggested play equipment for the pre—school
child.

d. Suggested play equipment for younger elemen-
tary school children.

e. Suggested play equipment for teen—agers and
adults.

f. Suggestions for beautifications.

g. Contest rules, with notifications in dark print on
how to enter the contest.

h. Three pages of plans for building various equip-
ment and courts, with specifications of materials
needed.

If we were again preparing a booklet, we would
include exactly the same information, improving
upon the plans shown and including about five or
six pages of plans instead of three. (The Peoria
Playground and Recreation Board, 303 Commer—
cial Bank Building, Peoria, Illinois, has about one
hundred copies of the booklet left and would be
glad to send copies to recreation departments re-
questing them.)

3. A public relations committee was formed and
was given a bulletin written by the superintendent
of recreation, covering all information in regard to
the contest. Several training session meetings were
held during which various questions were an-
swered. A team of six members arranged to give a

~ fifteen-minute talk before each PTA and mother’s

RECREATION

 

___--..—- ‘-'-

club in the city. Another team from the committee
arranged to have a member speak before each serv-
ice club in the city. Copies of the booklet men—
tioned before were distributed after each talk. An-
other team, composed of three ministers, arranged,
through the ministerial association, for all priests
and ministers to comment favorably, from the pul-
pit, on the advisability of building backyard and
neighborhood playgrounds.

All five local radio stations used spot announce-
ments throughout the day, for a period of two
weeks, urging parents to see the backyard and
neighborhood playground equipment exhibited in
the courthouse yard during the opening week of
the contest. Two copies of a movie trailer were
ordered, and operators of local movie houses co-
operated by running them free of charge. Each
week the trailers were moved to two new theaters,
thus keeping‘the contest before the movie-going
public during the entire summer. During the month
preceding the start of the contest, a series of meet—
ings were given good newspaper and radio pub—
licity. (Remember, one picture is Worth a thous-
and words.)

The superintendent of parochial schools arranged
to have mimeographed letters, signed by him, sent
home with each student throughout the city. A
local savings and loan association published a full-
page editorial in its monthly pamphlet, going to
30,000 home owners, urging parents to build back-
yard and neighborhood playgrounds. A local farm
machinery manufacturer printed a full-page news
story about the contest in a house organ going to
23,000 employees. Merchants were asked to use
the term “backyard and neighborhood play-
grounds” in their advertising. One merchant used
several half-page newspaper advertisements on
backyard and neighborhood playground equip-
ment; another used advertisements on backyard
and neighborhood playground clothing. The con-
test was set to start a week after “Clean-up Week,”
sponsored by the Association of Commerce. In its
publicity, the Association urged residents to clean

up, paint up and fix up and then to build a back-
yard playground.

, JANUARY 1950

RALPH E. BUERKE

ighhorhood Playground Contest

4. Ernie Csolkovits, our crafts supervisor, spent
odd hours during several Winter months building
equipment and apparatus of the type that can be
constructed at home with few tools. This equip-
ment formed the basis of a backyard and neigh-
borhood playground exhibit in the courthouse yard
and included a playhouse, a grocery store play-
house, a sandbox, a set of six pieces of orange-
crate furniture, a pre-school table and set of chairs,
a small swing set, a balance beam, a box hockey set,
an apparatus containing a swing, trapeze and climb-
ing rope, high jump standards, and stilts. Also,
we laid out courts for badminton, paddle tennis,
horseshoes and washers.

The apparatus and equipment were painted
bright shades of orange, red and green. Posters
were used to illustrate objectives of the various
equipment. For instance, a poster on the balance
beam stated: “Balance beam—teaches posture and
balance, just as much fun as walking a picket fence
and a lot safer.” A poster near the playhouse read:
“Playhouse—offers unlimited scope for imitative
play for the three—to-six-year-olds.” To create ad-
ditional interest in the exhibit, the park board
placed cages on tables in the exhibit containing a
three-month old lion cub and three monkeys who
were new additions to the zoo.

After reading publicity about the forthcoming
exhibit, a local fence manufacturer offered to fence
in the exhibit for us, freenof charge. We accepted
his offer with the provision that no advertising be
used other than a small sign stating that he had
furnished the fence. Later his generosity was re-

Thrce-walled, plywood playhouse displayed in contest.

 

warded by several orders for fence from local resi-
dents who saw the exhibit.

Our playhouse contained a child’s-size wooden
replica of an ironing board, a gas stove, a refriger-
ator, a dresser, a table and chairs. A toy telephone
and iron, and a shelf filled with imitation canned
goods made from sections of cardboard cylinders
with baby food labels, completed the household
equipment. The windows were equipped with
small-size canvas awnings. The playhouse was
named “Goldie Locks Cottage” and given the ad-
dress “100 Lollipop Boulevard.”

A store playhouse named “The \Viggly-Biggly
Grocery” was made from a packing case painted
to give the appearance of a brick building. It was
equipped with imitation canned goods and a tele-
phone with which the clerk could take orders.
Orange crate furniture was stained and equipped
with brightly-colored cushions.

A clerk was on duty at all times during the ex-
hibit to pass out the playground booklets.

5. As fast as entries came in, they were screened
and pictures obtained of the better playgrounds.
The newspapers carried a picture a week. This
kept the contest in the public eye during the entire
summer. By the time the contest ended, we had
selected the fifteen best entries. .These were sub-
mitted to the judging committee, who spent one
full day visiting these selected playgrounds. VVin-
ners were announced in the Sunday papers three
days after the close of the contest—with pictures
of first place playgrounds in both divisions.

Results of the contest in both Peoria and Spring-
field were gratifying. A number of fine neighbor-
hood playgrounds were developed and each ap-
proached their problems in a different way. In one
instance, a group of eight families living a few
miles beyond the city limits formed a playground
association. The husbands got together each eve-
ning after dinner and built the equipment, and the
wives arranged a schedule wherein each took her
regular turn supervising the playground. In an-
other instance, a committee was formed and neigh—
bors were solicited for donations which were used
to purchase equipment, after a local farm machin-
ery manufacturer had leveled an area consisting of
several privately owned lots in a heavily populated
district. In a third instance, neighborhood mer-
chants purchased equipment for the neighborhood
playground.

Amazing ingenuity was shown by many parents
in constructing their backyard playgrounds. In one
case, a huge tire from one of the mammoth earth-
moving machines manufactured in Peoria was
made into a wading pool by adhering waterproof

480

canvas to the bottom. A father who is a welder
constructed an excellent climbing apparatus similar
to a jungle gym by welding short sections of scrap
pipe together. One of the neighborhood play-
grounds made use of an old archery target by paint-
ing the face of a clown on the cover and using a
large hole for the mouth as a target for baseballs.
Many of the fine sliding boards built at home had
wide steps close together, making them safe for
the pre-school child. ‘

In both Peoria and Springfield no distinctiOn was
made between playgrounds outfitted with home-
made apparatus and apparatus purchased from
manufacturers. Winners were judged on the fol-

lowing points only :

1) Safety, choice of apparatus, strength, placing of
equipment to avoid accidents.

2) Ingenuity in utilization of available space and
in selection and placing of equipment.

3) Suitability for use by age group or groups for
which it is designed.

4) Construction as to workmanship and appear-
ance.

5) Beautification of yard.

In both contests a backyard playground was
termed “any playground away from the street, de—
signed and built by a single family.” A neighbor-
hood playground was termed “any playground
away from the street, designed and built by two or
more families or any church, school, or community
group organized together for this purpose.” Prizes
in both divisions were fifty dollars for first prize,
thirty dollars for second prize, twenty dollars for
third prize, with a number of five dollar honorable
mention prizes. In Springfield, Mr. Shuster pre-
sented an attractive “Merit Award” to all entries.

w

By Word of Mouth

Mrs. Samuel F. Pryor, Jr., sponsor of the Na-
tional Recreation Association for Greenwich, Con-
necticut, was seated beside a distinguished guest at
a public dinner. She discovered that he was the
Mayor of the City of New Orleans, deLesseps S.
Morrison, who shared her interest in the recreation
movement and in the NRA. He related a conver-
sation he had had with President Truman, during
which the President mentioned reading a N ew
Y or}: Times article about the New Orleans recrea-
tion program and the 1949 National Recreation
Congress.

This is an example of how friends of the Asso-
ciation have done much to spread word about the
movement through Spontaneous conversation with

' bthers.

RECREATION

0 WHAT? Never been winter fishing? Brother,
you hate yourself! Sure, skiing, snowshoeing, to—
bogganing, sleigh riding, cutter riding, iceboating,
picture taking, fox and ’cat hunting and lots of
other things are fine winter sports, but give me ice
fishing! Who wants to go south where they don’t
have snow-laden hills and ice—covered waters?
Not me!

Too rugged? Not a bit—just dress for it. A
warm or mild day ashore can become uncomfort-
able when one is exposed to even a soft breeze that
has been ice-cooled as it crosses the exposed sur-
face of a lake. The secret of comfort is to stay dry
and keep out of the wind.

The light clothing generally worn every day,
when covered with windproof outer garments such
as denim overalls or duck, a wool, coat With high
collar and, in severe weather, an inner vest or
jacket of leather, and a warm windproof wool—
lined or fur cap to cover ears and neck, is usu»
ally ample. Loose-fitting, four-buckle arctics and
felt insoles over felt shoes, or even ordinary shoes
and socks, allow foot moisture to escape, and feet
are kept dry and warm. Hands should be pro-
tected with loose-fitting leather mitts with wool
liners, that can be slipped on and off quickly as
the need arises.

When so dressed, one can laugh at the roughest
weather, and the exposure only adds to the thrill
of the day. Of course, those fishing in heated dark
houses or other shelters do not need as much outer

clothing for protection, only enough for getting to
and from the fishing area.

What do you fish for in Michigan? Well, just
about everything except trout and black bass. Blue-
gills and sunfish can be taken until February

 

Mr. DeBoer, veteran 1*"in and Fir/eerie: Dinixion

worker of the Michigan Department of Conrer’vation,
i: now administrative arrirtant in the Laniin g bjj’ice.

JANUARY 1950

 

twenty-eighth, and all others can be taken as long
as the ice lasts. All waters except designated trout
lakes and trout streams are open to fishing, but
some close April first while others remain open
throughout the year.

Where would you go? That depends upon what
you want. Some fishermen confine their winter
fishing to spears which can legally be used through
the ice during January and February. Spearing is
largely done from a heated dark house. Many fish-
ermen have their own although, on some waters,
houses and spears can be rented. Principal species
taken with spears are northern pike, muskies, and
noxious fish such as dogfish and gars. Sturgeon
can legally be taken also, but they are found only in
a few lakes of the Cheboygan River drainage. Lake
trout are also taken with spears in the Straits of
Mackinac and certain bays of Lake Superior.

The principal winter fishing varies with the dif-
ferent sections of the state of Michigan. In south-
ern lakes and streams, bluegills and specs (speckled
bass or crappie) are the major species taken with
hook and line, although yellow perch, northern
pike, and walleyed pike are also fished for. Tip-ups,
rather than a pole and line, are generally used for
pike fishing. As soon as ice is heavy enough,
“Smeltania,” the colony of houses, appears on the
lakes for hook and line fishing for smelt. Yellow
perch, lake trout and an occasional whitefish are
also taken on those waters.

What baits are needed? The list is long and any—
thing goes, but for pan fish, particularly bluegills
and sunfish, insect larvae is the most common.
“VVigglers” or mayfly larvae and cadis worms are
the most common aquatic form used. Also popular
and effective are goldenrod gall worms, meal
worms, corn borers, wood borers or sawdust
worms. Yellow perch and specs are also taken on
these baits, although live minnows are a desirable
bait for the latter species. Perch are also taken on

481

Russian hooks, which are used extensively on Sag-
inaw Bay.

Angleworrns, red worms or manure worms are
also used for pan fishing. Best results are obtained
when a small bait is used on a small hook as fish
are not as ravenous in their feeding habits during
the cold water season. Ice fiies are becoming more
popular with many fishermen. They are very ef-
fective and eliminate the need for live bait and the
chore, as it sometimes is, of baiting and rebaiting
a hook. Live minnows of a good size are preferred
for walleyes and northern pike, whether fished on
a tip-up or with a pole and line.

\N'hat equipment is needed? Don’t forget the
fishing license, and a thermos of hot coffee or soup
and sandwiches. A sled is handy for transporting
equipment and to sit on. A small wooden box
likewise furnishes a good seat and a place to de-
posit and carry the catch. A medium weight, but
durable, ice spud or axe for cutting small holes to
fish through, and a kitchen skimmer or strainer
for removing ice from the holes, are needed. For
pan fish, an outfit and bait can be obtained from
most sporting goods stores at a cost of a few dol-
lars. This consists of one or two short poles, fine
lines, preferably nylon, small hooks, split-shot
sinkers and small bobbers. A bell-shaped sinker
with a battery clamp attached makes a fine sound-

ing lead for determining depth of water in order
to adjust the length of line and height of the bob-
ber on the line.

A coil of rope, while seldom needed, may prove
of help in case of an emergency, Should someone
break through the ice. Spring holes or soft ice, or
holes not thoroughly frozen over and left unmarked
by someone who has removed a spearing shanty,
are dangerous. Driving cars onto the ice outside
of established trails or,during soft weather is an-
other hazard not relished by most fishermen. It is
best to park on shore and go afoot to the fishing
grounds. Don’t go too deep in purchasing equip-
ment—you’ll get ideas after you go a few times
and will want to make your own, even to poles,
portable shelters, stoves, warming lanterns and so
forth. You will get lots of advice without charge—
from the clerk at the store to the friends you make
on the ice.

\Vhen to go? Anytime is a good time regardless
of weather conditions, if properly dressed, or of
signs on the fishing calendar. Be sure every per-
son in the party is properly clothed and equipped.
Forethought in this respect will avoid discomfort
and displeasure and will add to the enjoyment of
the outing for all.

 

Reprinted by permission of Michigan Conservation, from January-
February, 1949. issue.

New Faces

John J. Collier

Mr. Collier is the National
Recreation Association’s new
District Field Representative
in the Michigan, Ohio and
\Vest Virginia area. He has
specialized in community or-
ganization and administration
of community recreation and
related services, and comes to the Association di-
rectly from the position of Superintendent of
Parks and Recreationdn Yuma, Arizona.

 

Mildred Scanlon

Miss Scanlon joined the staff of the
Association on the first of the new year
to assist with the program of recreation
leadership training. Her past experience
includes teacher training work in two col-
leges, rural demonstration work, social

482

 

Robert L. Horney

Mr. Horney has been ap-
pointed to district field service
for the NRA in the territory
of the late Lebert H. \Veir—
Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky,
Wisconsin and Minnesota. The
new representative has been
working in the field of com-
munity recreation for approximately twenty years.
Prior to his appointment, he was Superintendent
of Recreation in Evansville, Indiana.

 

recreation, the teaching of dancing.

During the war, she served with the
American Red Cross, in a recreation
capacity, in the China-Burma-India thea-
tre. Her last position was as club director
for the United States Army Special Serv-
ices in the European theatre.

RECREATION

OKA HESTER

Television 

in Greensboro, North Carolina

HE GREENSBORO Recreation Department has

lost no time in utilizing the live facilities of the
city’s new television station. First it was the
Camera Club which began demonstrating on Sun-
day nights, and next came the Circle K Club’s
presentation on Tuesday nights. The idea of using
television sets at Friday night recreation center
parties materialized on the Friday before Hallow-
een, with sets loaned through the courtesy of a
local appliance dealer.

Most of the children had never seen television,
to say nothing of actually participating in a show.
On October twenty-eighth, when Halloween par-
ties were held for the school children, a number of
youngsters from each center appeared before the
television camera at the studio and were seen by
their friends in other areas. It was an experience
they will remember for a long, long time! Other
parties of this nature are being planned for the
future.

The Circle K Club

An all-around children’s club called the Circle
K, sponsored by the recreation department, fea-
tures a television show each Tuesday night at eight-
fifteen over WFMY-TV. The youngsters who
sing, dance, make magic, play musical instruments
or imitate on the Carolina Theater stage each Sat-
urday morning before thousands of boys and girls,
are presented in a repeat performance for the video
audience. This television show has proved to be
one of the most popular to originate at the tele-
vision station—the only station in the Carolinas
with facilities for liveprogramming.

Prop-Twisters on Video

The slogan of the Prop-Twister’s Model Club is
“Peer at the Prop-Twisters for "Progress," and
progressing they are. The fourth endeavor of the
Greensboro department in the field of telecasting
started in November when the club began a bi-
weekly television show. Telecasts include exhibi-

 

Mr. H ester, director of the Greensboro Recreation

Department, 2': coordinating televition with program. I

JANUARY 1950

tions of various types of model airplanes, racing
cars, trains and boats and demonstrations of skills
in constructing and operating the models. It’s a
shame that the members fiying those 140 mile-an-
hour jet speed jobs will not be able to let them
loose in the studio—but they can be seerl hedge-
hopping at the new Model Air Park any Saturday
or Sunday afternoon.

Camera Club

The Camera Club’s first period on the air, over
WFMY-TV, was spent in demonstrating the ad-
vantages and disadvantages of various amounts
and placements of indoor lighting, and the effects
gained by each. A young lady who acted as a
model for a previous shooting night was televised
in the same attire and pose. The procedure was to
show this model in a certain pose, describe briefiy
what results would be obtained by first using one
photofiodd, then two and, lastly, three photofioods.
After each of the demonstrations, a finished pic—
ture—taken under each lighting condition—was
offered for inspection by the television audience.
This type of show has been termed a “natural” by
television producers here, who report that its pos-
sibilities are practically limitless.

How did this start? In July, this year, Norman
Dalton, supervisor of special activities for the rec-
reation department, began broadcasting a program
called “The Camera Club of the Air” over WEMY.
This was presented for the benefit of amateur pho-
tographers—men, women and children of all ages.
All elementary phases were covered. Members of
the Camera Club, though amateurs, were young
men and older boys with professional ability who
enthusiastically grasped the opportunity to take
part.

After broadcasting throughout the summer with
notable results, television arrived. Arrangements
were then made to exhibit the techniques of this
club through this new and fascinating medium. In
the future, demonstrations on exposure, dark-room
problems and enlarging procedures will be held,
along with pointers on the values of various types
of cameras for specified purposes.

483

"There probably has never been a time in history
when true brotherhood was so Indispensable to the
welfare of our own nation and to the peace and
freedom of the entire world."-—Presidenf Harry

Truman. Honorary Chairman of National Brother-
hood Weekl February l9-26. I950.

Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Presents “America
ll/orslzips”—-\Vhat better way, asked the Council
of Church \Vomen of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, is
there to bring about a closer bond, a greater feeling
of good will and cooperation among the various
races and creeds of our community than to have
everyone united in a common project? Though
the Council had been working for such unity for a
number of years, it felt that far more could be ac-
complished by bringing together all cultural, racial,
religious, civic and industrial groups of the city in
one huge program. Therefore, it decided upon a
pageant to be called “America \Vorships,” and to
be presented Sunday afternoon, May 15, in the
high school auditorium.

First Grace W'alker, drama specialist of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, was asked to help
with the production. Then, more than 200 partici-
pants cooperated—from among such neighborhood
organizations as the Hamilton \Vatch Chorus,
Franklin and Marshall College, the YWCA, the
Interracial Council, the Jewish Community Center,
the Pilot Club, Temple Youth and many others.

The program itself had a strong religious flavor
showing—through pantomime, narration and music
—the different ways in which American religious
groups worship. The pageant began with the story
of creation, tracing the desires of man in his search
for a true and living God down through the ages.
It also depicted the contributions of primitive man,
the early Greeks, Jews and Christians—the differ-
ent races and creeds up to the Christian era. Each
scene was artfully lighted and appropriately cos-
tumed, adding much to its beauty and significance.

But it was really the spirit behind it all that
made the venture such a success. All worked to-
gether enthusiastically, forgetting differences in
concern for a common project. Approximately
twelve different groups took part, with many more
offering their services. Seven hundred people from
the community came to witness the results. No
admission charge was necessary either, because a

484

' 7%

long list of people —about 400 of them—volun-
teered their patronage weeks in advance. They also
realized that the goal was worthwhile.

Dayton, Ohio, Presents “We, the People, Speak”
—Another excellent example of democratic group
participation was demonstrated by Dayton, Ohio,
with its production of “\Ve, the People, Speak.”
Some 700 citizens attended the performance; many
more requested tickets. But the demand was far
greater than the seating capacity of the Dayton Art
Institute where the Show was held.

The production was presented by the Dayton
Bureau of Recreation through the Linden Commu-
nity Center, and the sponsoring committee in—
cluded a broad coverage of church and social agen-
cies in the city. A cross-section of the population
especially interested in creative and cultural rec-
reation participated. The cast of 150 included pro-
fessionals as well as amateurs, and a community
chorus——drawn from churches, clubs and other
singing groups—added to the excellent perform-
ances. The show was directed by Grace Walker
and, in addition, all groups were trained by profes-
sional directors. However, whenever possible,
local professional leadership was used.

As a result of the production, many citizens
with a wide variety of skills and interests were dis-
covered and, through rehearsals and classes, basic
skills required for such recreation activities were
taught. Several special groups were developed and
utilized, including a young people’s dance group,
a singing group, a verse-speaking group and a dra-
matics group. These made plans to continue as
interest groups in the future.

Then, too, the production not only helped to
further the cause of democracy in Dayton, but also
demonstrated to the people the great flexibility of
a recreation program and the vast scope of cul-
tural resources that can be used through the me-
dium of recreation.

A Project for Your Totem—On October 30,
1947, Mr. and Mrs. John  Public read in their

RECREATION

5 71am

newspapers about a report from the Committee on
Civil Rights, appointed by President Truman. Ac-
cording to this committee, composed of fifteen dis-
tinguished citizens from all walks of life, a great
many people were being deprived of their civil
rights through racial and religious discrimination.
Millions of people learned the facts—but many re-
mained complacent. Fortunately, however, there
were even more who decided that something should
be done about this.

In Montclair, New Jersey, for example, the peo-
ple conducted an audit to discover ust where their
town stood in providing personal freedom and
equality of opportunity to all. Volunteers from
live community organizations formed teams and
investigated six areas of community life—employ-
ment, housing, recreation, education, public health
and public facilities. After considerable research
and personal interviews, they submitted the Mont-
clair Balance Sheet—a listing of the town’s short-
comings and accomplishments in the form of assets
and liabilities. The report revealed that many in-
habitants of Montclair were being deprived of their
Constitutional rights and protections.

On the liabilities side of recreation opportunities
available, it was discovered that privately-oper-
ated recreation facilities did discriminate. The
town’s only roller skating rink barred Negroes.
A pattern of segregation was followed in bowling
alleys, and the YMCA was segregated, with one
branch for whites and another for Negroes. On
the assets side, the committee listed the facts that
facilities of the Public Recreation Department
were open to, and used by, persons of all colors,
races and creeds without discrimination. The Boy
and Girl Scouts practiced some segregation,
largely because of population and sponsorship fac-
tors, but all groups mixed together in summer
camps. In junior and senior high school, students
played and worked together well. Growing partici-
pation was evidenced by all racial, religious and
national origin groups in student government, ath-

IANUARY 1950

 

A cross section of the population of Dayton,
Ohio, participated in “We, the People, Speak.”

letic activities and dramatic groups.

Now, how does your town, your recreation de-
partment add up? One way to find out is to do
what Montclair dide-conduct an audit of your own
and make it available for everyone to see. But
always keep in mind that the audit is only the be-
ginning—it’s the follow-up that’s really important.
Recreation offers great opportunity for interfaith,
interracial activities.

You can use such devices as the Montclair Free-
dom Train to dramatize to the community Ameri-
ca’s heritage of freedom and equality. In connec-
tion with Freedom Week, the Montclair Deve10p-
ment Board sent a trailer through the town carry-
ing a display of historical documents giving an in-
sight into the section’s early history and the strug-
gle of settlers to establish their freedom.

In addition, encourage reading programs about
other countries for adults and children through
libraries, study groups and organizational pro-
grams. Make good use of storytelling hours and
book exhibits at your playgrounds and recreation
centers. Plan your concerts and other cultural ac—
tivities as occasions for displays and messages
which interpret the intercultural and international
character of music. Your little theater groups can
produce plays from foreign literature and you can
build around them festivals which embody music,
dance and folklore. (See An Appeal for Under-
standing, November 1949 RECREATION—Ed.) A
program of games and songs traditional with
American and foreign groups can be part of your
playground program. Further opportunities for ad-
vancing the idea of brotherhood will occur to you.

485

SUGGESTIONS FOR PLAY

In Painting

Painting is a play medium which all chil-
dren enjoy and need for self-expression. Time,
space, adequate materials and equipment

should always be provided for it in the pro-
gram. Children’s pictures should never be
judged by adult standards.

 

N INTRODUCING PAINTING to children, a few sim-
I ple guides about the use of materials can be
given. These include wiping excess paint off the
brush to prevent dripping, taking enough paint to
avoid scrubbing, washing the brush before using
a different color. Beyond teaching the care of ma—
terials, no instruction should be given to younger
children. The age of interest in technique usually
begins around ten, when children may be given
adult guidance if they ask for it. Patterns or pic-
tures to copy should never be used at any age.

Paints: Poster or tempera paint is most de-
sirable as the colors are brilliant. It has the con-
sistency of thick cream and can be thinned. It
should be purchased in large quantities and placed
in smaller jars, such as baby food containers.

Powder paint should be mixed with water to a
medium texture. If the mixture is too thin, the
colors are pale; if too thick, it flakes off the paper.
If powder paints seem dim, the addition of a small
amount of tempera paint will liven up the color.
To make more paint from a given quantity, one
may add a cup of soap powder mixed with one
quart of water to the paint mixture.

Easels: “7 here the room is small, standing easels
may take up too much floor space. A wall easel
made of beaverboard or celotex, which is nailed to
the wall at the top and projected about three inches
at the bottom, serves very well. This easel should
be firmly braced at the bottom and there should be
a strip of wood three inches wide, edged with a
strip of lath across the lower edge, to make a trough
for small jars of paint and water. All surfaces

486

should be shellacked or covered with oilcloth for
easy cleaning. The ease] is the right height when
the child’s outstretched arm reaches the center of
the paper.

Younger children find painting on paper laid on
the floor satisfactory, for the paints will not run.
Newspapers large enough to protect the floor
should be placed under the painting paper. If
tables are used, they should be wide enough for
paper, paint and water jars. \Vherever painting is
done, newspapers should be spread generously.

Brushes: One-half inch, long-handled, number
five; one-quarter inch, long-handled, number
seven; for fine work, a few smaller brushes—num-
ber twelve.

Paper: Large sheets of newsprint, eighteen by
twenty-four inches. This large size encourages
freedom of movement and expression.

Paint jars: These containers should be heavy
enough not to tip, tall enough for a long-handled
brush, and wide enough at the mouth to make use
easy. '

W'afer: The teacher can add a small amount of
water to the paints when needed. A small, long-
spouted watering can is useful. Each child should
have a jar of water while he is painting. A large
pail of water, into which children drop their brushes
after completing their work, is practical and con-
venient. Teachers must rinse, dry and store brushes,
bristles up, if they are to be properly cared for.
Brushes are expensive. Do not use water-color
brushes or camel’s hair brushes for enamel paint.

Finger paint is a plastic, cream paint that is par-
ticularly good for children, because, as in the use
of clay, the direct handling of the material gives
opportunity for maximum freedom of motion and
expression. Cover the table with an oilcloth, im-
merse in water a sheet of glazed shelf paper or reg—
ular finger-painting paper (eighteen by twenty-
four, for younger, twelve by eighteen for older
children). Smooth it on the table and use a spoon
or tongue depressor to dip out the paint mixture

RECREATION

onto the paper. The child uses his hands or fingers

to spread the paint.

Finger paints may be bought already prepared
or they may be made less expensively by cooking
a fairly thick linit starch mixture, adding to this
poster paint or vegetable coloring in any desired

shade or color.

Cleaning cloths: These are essential, and old
towelling is good. A child’s mop and a rubber
sponge are helpful for cleaning the floor.

Protection of Clothes: Smocks, homemade
aprons of unbleached muslin or oilcloth, or cut-
down shirts will help to keep clothes clean. These
should be considered part of the basic equipment.

In Science

Children have natural curiosity and want
to know about their world. Often their in-
terests are scientific in nature. F irst—hand

experiences provide the “how and why” of
things which they accept but do not always
understand. Science is inherent in the every-
day living of children.

T IS IMPORTANT for all leaders to be aware that
I science experiences are closely related to the
work and play of children. The teacher can capi-
talize on the play spirit and make science a medium
for an enriched program.

“Of course I‘ know how important science is
for children but I am not an expert and I do not
know how to teach it.” This is the cry of the aver—
age teacher who may have a willing spirit but thinks
of science in terms of textbooks, test tubes, micro—
scopes, difficult experiments and difficult names.
The leader can be a learner with the children, who
will not be disturbed if the teacher says frankly,
“I don’t know. It will _be fun to find out together.”

In a group—centered program, science for young
children is planned around experiences rather than
experiments. Children have an eager curiosity
about the world they live in—the stars, the dew,
the man-made wonders of planes, trains and bridges.
. . . They want to know what to plant in their
garden, how to light the stage for their puppet
play, why planes fly, what makes the clock go, how
cold is snow, what is an earthworm, what is a mag-
net. . . . Many science activities and experiences
centering around home and community interests
offer unusual opportunities for group planning in
a play program. The nine through twelve-year-

 

Repripted from "How to Make a Play School Work,” Pla Sch 1
Assocxanon, New York. Photograph taken in a play schodl ceding

JANUARY 1950

 

olds are surprisingly capable in carrying out their
ideas in the field of science: how to build a tele-
graph set, why the door bell rings, how the ther~
mometer works, or why the wind blows. . . .

If possible, set aside space for a science corner.
Plan to have tables and low shelves for materials
and specimens ; for carrying on simple experiments ;
for simple science reference books. Typical mate-
rials: aquarium, terrarium, magnets, magnifying
glass, prism, compass, containers for planting seeds,
facilities for simple cooking. Typical specimens:
seeds, plants, leaves, shells. Bulletin board for pic-
tures, charts and all mounted specimens of interest
to the children is desirable.

It is indeed science when children are free to do,
to examine, to experiment, to get information
through touching, smelling, tasting, looking and
listening.

“Patterns to copy should never be used at any age,”
says Play Schools Association handbook. Children
below went to George Washington Bridge to get ideas
for mural; in cardboard boat pretend trip on river.

 

GERALD P. BURNS

MODERN TRENDS IN CAMPING

0 Camping means many things to many people—-
the outdoors, recreation, education, group living,
nearness to nature and primitive living. Interest-
ingly enough, these are the things that go to make
up that which we know as the “good life.”

If we believe in the values of these things, and
our reading professional journals of this type at-
tests to that fact, then we should stand ready to
spread our beliefs and secure a camping experience
for every child. This goal is being sought in many
ways. Before the turn of the century we had many
private camps in Operation, and even a few agency-
sponsored camps. Now we have innumerable
agency and private camps spreading from the At-
lantic to the Pacific and from Canada to l'lexico.
No one knows how many agencies, camps or chil-
dren are involved. \Ve know one thing, however—
that camping makes a tremendous contribution to
the total development of the child. The type of
camp or its sponsorship is relatively unimportant;
the vital thing is for us to work together through
our camping and youth groups, through our own
agencies and departments, and through our local
units of the American Camping Association to pro-
vide more and better camping for all children.

Referring to the size and scope of camping in
America, it must be admitted that no one has com-
piled statistics which give us the complete" picture.
Last year, during the course of the International
Education Conference in Geneva, Dr. John Stude-
baker, then United States Commissioner of Educa-
tion, requested figures that would show the gen-
eral picture of camping in this country._ After pe-
rusing documents and statistical data at hand, we
came up with a set which we felt at that time rep-
resented a fairly accurate concensus of Opinion as
to the size of the camping movement. These fig-
ures have been modified in the last year and, even
with this modification, it must be admitted that
they are not exact and should be treated only as
an estimate or as an approximation of the situation
presently existing.

Gerald P. Burn: 1': executive director of the American
Camping Arrociation, [:45 bad long experience in field.

488

\

\V e feel that there. are now between three and
four million children having a camping experience
of one sort or another each year. We understand
that there are between twelve and fifteen thousand
camps in the United States at the present time.
\Ve know that approximately three thousand of
these camps are represented in the American Camp-
ing Association. If membership in the American
Camping Association is a valid criterion of the dis-
tribution between the various types of sponsor-
ship, then we may say that approximately two-
thirds of the camps of the nation are agency spon-
sored and the others, privately sponsored.

As in the case of the statistical or descriptive
analysis of camping, the very definition of the term
presents certain problems. There are few, if any,
camp leaders in the nation who will agree on any
one single definition of camping as adequately cov-
ering the subject. However, we note that there are
certain basic elements found in cammng regardless
of its sponsorship or geographical location. To the
camper, these fundamental elements are fun, ad-
venture, and romance. To the parent they are:
vacation for the child; contribution to his growth
and deveIOpment (physically, mentally, socially,
and emotionally) ; and a relaxing of parental super-
vision. And what does Mp mean to us as pro-
fessionals in the field? First, there must be a
group; second, the activity must be conducted pri-
marin outdoors; third, qualified leadership, guid-
ance or supervision must be present; fourth, the
activity must be conducted strictly for fun without
any compulsion; and fifth, the site should permit
a closeness to nature and, if possible, certain as-
pects of simple or primitive living. Assembling
these various prerequisites of cammng in their
proper order, we are then given a rough idea as to
what camping means across the country.

in analyzing general trends in the field, it might
be well for us to break them down into four major
areas. The first area, that of administration, is in
itself so vast and variable that to enumerate all
the trends presently discernible would take far
more time than this presentation permits. To

‘ mention just a few, we note first that three three-

RECREATION

For use of camp executives in evaluating
their season and in planning for next year.

week periods in agency camps would seem to be
supplanting the former four two-week periods
throughout the country. Research and study have
conclusively proved that the child gains almost
one hundred percent more, if percentage values can
be used, during the third week of a three-week
period than during the first two. This would indi-
cate then that we would do a far better job if we
were able to provide a lengthening of the season to
permit a somewhat longer period. Secondly, we
note that there is some slight raising of fees
throughout the country. Although some prices
have leveled off, in many areas food costs are up
over what they were in I948. Thus the necessity
for some raising of enrollment fees. And, third,
it is plain that more children than ever were anx-
ious to attend camp last summer.

In program. we note that there is a tendency to
develop a longer summer season, to extend our tra-
ditional eight weeks season to nine, ten or even
twelve weeks, depending upon the summer vacation
from school. The second trend visible in this area
of program is that winter, spring and fall vacations,
and the weekends within these seasons, are being
utilized for camping. This is in keeping with the
desire of all clear thinking professionals in the field
to secure maximum usage of their facilities through—
out the year. The third point, again in program, is
that more out—of—camp activity is being scheduled
—-trips of all s0rts, periods in outpost camps and
utilization of primitive living areas away from the
base camps.

The third major area under general trends might
be considered as that of personnel. We note, first,
that year-round salaries of professionals in the field
are moving up, as must be expected. In addition,
it is possible that seasonal salaries of camp staff
personnel will also have to be increased. A second
trend is toward having better trained people be-
coming more available. Combining these two trends
we might then assume that it is entirely possible
that fewer but better personnel will be secured for
camp staff positions this summer than ever before.
PeOple who have been trained in colleges and uni-
versities, in camping institutes and Special courses,
in on-the— job training in camping situations, and in
other ways should be able to do the job more ef—
ficiently and effectively than the untrained coun-
selors whom we were forced to use during the war
period and immediately thereafter.

The fourth general area under trends is this one

JANUARY 1950

 

Whether camp be private or Sponsored by
agency is relatively unimportant. Above at
Madison Square Boys Club Clear Pool Camp.

of sponsorship. It would seem that the greatest
increase in any specific type of sponsorship of
camps is that of church camps. Then, too, there is
a continued expansion in all types of camps——pri-
vate, agency and otherwise. School and municipal
camping are types of camp sponsorship which are
growing slowly and steadily.

So much for the general trends in the camp field
at this time. It may be well for us to turn for a
moment to certain specific or particular trends.
Each year the program committee of the Ameri-
can Camping Association submits to its board of
directors, for approval, certain priorities and em-
phases which the committee feels exemplify the
best in camping and indicate predictable trends or
things to come. Both the committee and the board
of directors are made up of leaders in the field of
youth work, recreation and camping, from volun-
tary agencies in the field. These peOple pool their
knowledge and experience, make recommendations
that transcend agency boundaries and any few
camp rivalries that continue to exist.

Among the priorities and emphases that were
accepted for the 1949 season were the following:
conservationeducation through increased activity
in nature lore, camp crafts, woodsmanship, out-of~
camp activities, conservation of natural resources
and the more primitive aspects of camp program;
promotion of that portion of the camp program
which deals with spiritual values. The camp, of-
fering a natural cathedral in the outdoors, can do
much to interpret the natural relationship between
spiritual values and the wonders of nature. A third
emphasis that should need no great stress to youth

489

leaders with a progressive outlook is the matter of
democratic group living. The camp, with its pres-
ent form of decentralized administration of camp-
er-counselor planning. and with flexibility of pro-
gram and direction, forms a natural environment
in which the ideals of democracy should flourish.

A fourth area for emphasis is that of securing a
balanced program with no single activity or inter-
est dominating all others. Regardless of how valu-
able any one single subject may be in the camp
curriculum, it would be a gross error for the pro-
gram planner to overlook the values that lay in an
equitably balanced program of activities. And a
fifth trend, this one away from the area of program.
is that toward cooperation. It would seem that this
is taking two directions: first, infra-agency cooper-
ation and joint planning for camping, where we can
gather with camping colleagues in our own organi-
zation; second. inter-agency meetings, where we
can gather with the leaders of other organizations
to pool our knowledge and wisdom, to give and to
gain new ideas in the camping field. This second
type of meeting flourishes in the sections or local
units of the American Camping Association and in
other professional associations.

We have long heard that there is a certain
strength in unity, that we will all go further faster
if we move forward together. Certainly these are
the basic tenets of any truly professional group or
association. The American Camping Association
was founded on the fundamental belief that cooper-
ation among professional pe0ple is better than com-
petition. A brief example of this is shown in cer—
tain national activities undertaken by the associa-
tion in the last two years. In I947, as we were
emerging from a post-war slump in leadership. the
vital problem facing many camp directors was to
develop certain principles of leadership and put
them into operation locally and in the colleges of
the nation.

The ACA, therefore, appealed to fifty of the
leading camp directors and educators throughout
the country. These leaders sat down together, put
forth the best possible ideas and doctrines repre—
sentative of a large number of private, agency and
other types of camping, and came up with two pub-
lications of outstanding value in the camping field
——“A Camp Director Trains His Own Staff,” de-
signed for in-service or in-camp training: and

:42

“Camp Leadership Courses for Colleges and Uni-
versities.” In 1948, legislation appeared to be the
problem on the camp horizon, and leaders in the
camping field and again certain outstanding pro—
gressive legislators met in a working conference.
The results of this workshop are published in the
booklet “The Legislative Aspects of Camping.”

In 1949, it was the feeling of the Board of Di-
rectors of the ACA that the interpretation of camp—
ing to the lay people‘ of America is one of the
thorny problems about which the camping move-
ment should be concerned. It was recently decided,
therefore, again to ask national leaders in educa-
tion, recreation and camping to meet with certain
of the leaders in the professional public relations
field in a workshop to be held in New York this fall.

Among the many facets of our youth programs
is concern for :

Recreatioumthe chance to re-create, the oppor—
tunity to play and enjoy life. “7 e have long recog—
nized its presence in camping to a greater degree
perhaps than in any other setting.

Education—the gaining of knowledge, the ac—
quisition of skills and training. During the last
decade, incontrovertible evidence has been accumu-
lated indicating that education occurs in camping
within the most favorable learning situations. It
may truthfully be said that of all the progressive
departures and truly great advances in the field of
education, as former President Charles \V. Elliott
of Harvard University put it, “The organized sum-
mer camp is the most important step in education
that America has given the world.”

Camping is the wedding of education and recrea—
tion. The blending of these two great forces gives
us an area of living, or a way of life, that bids fair
to prove one of the most significant and far-reach-
ing influences in the growth and development of
children that has been discovered.

Acknowledging this fact, we are rightfully secure
in the realization that camping is a most worthy
cause. \V e should hold ever before us the full in-
tention of keeping our standards high, of working
cooperatively with our colleagues in camping; we
should talk about our work in camping, publicize
what we are doing, and educate the parents of
America to its manifold values. Let us then accept
the challenge and work together toward “more and
better camping for all our children.”

"Camps, camp grounds, and low cost cabins for the use of schools, traveling
youth groups, recreation organizations and for families are among the most needed
recreational facilities on all types of public areas of greater value to the community.”

490

, l . .
—]ULIUS H. SALOMEN in C onservatzon.

RECREATION

Make a collection of impromptu stunts, tricks and games!

7.

GET INTO THE 

EEMINGLY impromptu stunts, tricks and games
S are being pulled out of hats these days wher-
ever a few people gather for a bit of social fun, and
the more serious game of bridge often has to take
a back seat. Whether one is host or guest, there-
fore, it is well to be supplied with a few contribu—
tions to add to the general gaiety. Those described
below are merely to touch off your own ideas and
to form a basis for your own collection. You
probably can dig around in your memory and come
up with many more.

Card Trick—All cards are their face value ex—
cept the Jack, Queen, King, which are eleven,
twelve and thirteen consecutively. (If cards are
not available, make four sets of number cards, each
set a different color, and number them one through
thirteen.)

Directions: Leader, beginning with first card,
turns it face upward to' start building the entire
deck into stacks of thirteen. If he turns up eight,
the next card placed over this will be nine (no mat-
ter what its face value is), the next ten, and so on.
After one stack of thirteen, he makes another.
After all cards have been dealt to make complete
stacks of thirteen (he may have a few'cards left
which he keeps in his hands), he asks someone to
select three stacks and turn them face downward.
Then he picks up all other cards and places them
with those in his hand. He then tells the person to
turn up the top card on two of the stacks, and says
that he will name the third top card.

Solution: Total the sum of the two cards turned
upward, add ten to the sum, deal off that number
of cards, and then count the number left. If five
cards are left, it will be the five ; if one card, the
ace; if twelve cards, the queen, and so forth.

The Guessing Bottle*——-Ask the guessing bot-
tle, a soft drink or milk bottle, a question which
can be answered by pointing to a person; then spin
the bottle in the middle of a circle of players. “Who
is the most intelligent person here?” “Who is go-

ing to be married next?” “Who is the most beau-
tiful?”

 

*Quoted from "The Pleasure Chest." Helen and Lar E‘s b _
Parthenon Press. Nashville, Tennessee. 31.25. W lcn erg

IANUARY 1950

Imaginary I Spy*—A player hides in his imagi-
nation and answers questions with “yes” or “no”
only. “Are you in this room?” “Yes.” “Are you
in this end?” “No.” “Are you in the light bulb?”
“Yes.” The person who discovered the hiding
place becomes “it” next.

Magic Steps—(Never name this game before
playing it, as people will immediately guess.) This
requires a leader and confederate in the group.
The confederate goes out of the room and someone
in the group selects an object. The confederate
returns and the leader says “Is it this P”—pointing
to something. When he points to the chosen object,
asking the question, the confederate answers, “yes.”

Solution: When the confederate is where he can
see the leader, the leader takes a certain number of
steps, slightly hesitates, and then walks anywhere.
The confederate has counted these steps taken be-
fore the hesitation, and knows the time to say “yes”
is on that number.

Do This and Add Something*—The leader, in
a circle of not over twenty players, starts some
action. The person to his right does the leader’s
action, and adds one of his own. So it goes around
the circle. Samples—leader waves hand, next per-
son nods head, third shakes foot. They are done
in sequence, one at a time.

Through the Looking Glass*—In a large
room, stretch a “tightrope” down the center of the
floor. A player takes a pair of opera or held glasses
and looks through them from the larger end, try-
ing to walk the String or chalk line without step-
ping off it.

Poetry Writing—An individual or a group
starts off by making up a line of poetry; the next
one adds another, and so on until a quatrain or
verse is completed. The next person starts an-
other. A variation of the game: players each write
down one line, pass it on to the next player, who
adds to it.

Quizzes—These are fun. Make up your own
beforehand on such topics as nature, literature,
music, sports, the Bible, opera, theater, astronomy,
proverbs, and so on. Have your list of answers
ready, and be sure that they are correct.

491

70% at 77%

For the New Year—A new recreation center——
of Oriental appearance with powder blue glazed
brick, painted pergolas and painted exterior and
interior walls—will soon be a part of that hilly and
densely-built section in San Francisco, California,
which has attracted approximately 16,000 Chinese
citizens. Construction on this project will begin
this year, and nearly $300,000 has already been
apprOpriated for it. The site selected is an aban-
doned school area in a neighborhood where there
are few play spaces except for the crowded side-
walks and the streets themselves. However, the
center will not be restricted to the Chinese popula-
tion only. Any San Franciscan will be welcome to
use its facilities, and if all parts of the center are in
full use by spectators as well as participants, 500
to 600 people—youngsters and adults—can be ac-
commodated. The new recreation project will be
open from early morning until ten at night, under
the supervision of two directors—one man and one

woman .
o o
.0.

Need Anything ?—The Playground and Recre—
ation Board of Decatur, Illinois, feels that one of
its most valuable contributions to the community
is its lending service. For years, the department
has not only loaned, but delivered and returned
such items as picnic tables, chairs, public address
systems, booths for selling tickets, lights for dra~
matics and sports events, strings of lights for so-
cials, record players, bingo sets, movie projectors.
platforms, costumes of all kinds, and the usual
games which include balls, bats and other equip—
ment.

Recently, a local school teacher asked for forty-
five wiener forks. She was told that the depart—
ment did not have them but would try to obtain
them for her. A local concern was called, the play-

492

ground and recreation board asking if it could pur-
chase six dozen rejects or seconds. After telling
how the forks were to be used, the manufacturer
not only donated the forks, but included four steak
grills, eleven four-place hamburger grills, fourteen
single grills and sixteen three—place wiener holders.
So now Decatur’s lending service includes out-
door cooking utensils as well. Little wonder that
the citizens of the city have been adopting the slo-
gan—if you want something, just call the recrea-
tion department !

Folk Dance Festival-—Another National Folk
Festival is on its way for 1950. This, the sixteenth
annual affair, will be held April 12 to 15 in St.
Louis, and will be divided into three parts—the
first, the festival itself, which will take place twice
a day in the Opera House of Kiel Auditorium,
showing a cross—section of the folk traditions of
the various racial and national groups in the coun-
try; the second, the morning conferences, offering
leaders an Opportunity to discuss their problems
and to obtain information from specialists in allied
Fields; and the third portion, the after—performance
parties which will take place each night so that all
groups can get together and enjoy each other’s
native dances.

Last year, the Civil Affairs Division of the United
States Army made a sound film of the festival for
distribution in Japan, Korea, Germany, and other
occupied countries as a demonstration of the Amer—
ican democratic way of life through the interchange
of folk songs, music, dances and other traditional
expressions regardless of race, color or creed.

For further information concerning the national
festival, write to Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott,
Room 625, Title Guaranty Building, St. Louis,
Missouri.

RECREATION

People in Recreation

Chief of Army Recreational Service

E. COL. WILLIAM AUSTIN BISHOP, Chief of Army Recreational Service, Office of
the Chief of Special Services, Department of the Army, has spent more than
twenty-two years in the fields of professional athletics and recreation. A native of
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, he graduated from Franklin and Marshall College,
Lancaster, in 1927, where, as an undergraduate, he was active in athletics, forensics
and music. A year after his graduation, he captured the runner-up title in wrestling
in the 1928 Olympic Games. He holds a master of arts degree in recreation admin—
istration and a Ph. D. degree in educational administration from New York

University.
He served as instructor in social studies, director of athletics and coach of

wrestling and football at Wyoming Seminary from 1927 to 1936, and was associate
professor of education, head coach of wrestling and lightweight football at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania from 1936 to 1942. As a Reservist, he entered upon active
Army duty on March 16, 1942, serving suc-
cessively as director, training instructor, and
director of training at the Quartermaster
School, Camp Lee, Virginia. Later, he
served as director of training and Opera-
tions at the Army’s School for Personnel
Services, Lexington, Virginia; for a brief
period was commandant of the Information
and Education School, Naples, Italy; and
served as director, Personal Affairs Legal
Assistance, in the Mid—Pacific Theater.

Following his separation from the
Army in March, 1946, Colonel Bishop re-
turned to his alma mater, Franklin and
Marshall College, as professor of physical
education and director of athletics. He was
recalled to active Army duty November I,
1948, to take over the post he now holds as
chief of the Army Recreational Service. He
wears the Legion of Merit.

JANUARY 1950

 

493

RECREATION for the Americ;

* “OFF—DUTY RECREATION PROGRAMS for sol—
diers help build morale, increase the effi—
ciency of tr00ps and aid in the successful accom-
plishment of the Army’s mission, in war and peace.”

This recent statement of Major General Thomas
\V. Herren, Chief of Special Services, Department
of the Army, is a succinct thumbnail of reasons
why American military authorities are promoting
and accelerating on-the-post recreation facilities
and programs for the use and participation of all
soldiers in their off-duty time.

In molding American men—accustomed to demo-
cratic, peaceful ways of living—into effective mili-
tary forces, the Army knows that its task is more
than ust military training. Problems of individual
and collective welfare remain, and the basic need
for leisure-time recreation persists inside the Army
as well as in civilian life. This basic need is being
met through Army Recreational Service as ade-
quately as possible, depending upon available funds.

You will find, to quote Secretary of the Army
Gordon Gray, that “no American Army in the his-
tory of this country—either at home or abroad—
has been provided with better recreation facilities
and entertainment than that enjoyed by our troops
today.”

You will find special services ofiicers, service
club recreation directors, Army librarians, athletic
directors, hobby shop, music, motion picture and
soldier—show technicians energetically supplying
leadership—professional direction that is resulting
in hundreds of thousands of American soldiers
continuing the recreation pursuits that they en-
joyed in civilian life, learning new recreative skills,
and thereby becoming more efiicient and more val-
uable soldiers.

494

LT. COL. WILLIAM A. BISHOP

If you were to visit Fort Dix, New Jersey, you
would see seventy—six members of the armed forces
participating in an entertainment training project,
taking advanced courses in soldier-show produc—
tion and music entertainment that will result in a
whole cycle of “show business” projects for the
participation and enjoyment of military personnel
in the areas from which the students come. At
Fort Bragg, North Carolina, you would see a new
5,000—capacity athletic stadium where Army sports
contests are held, in addition to excellent service
clubs, hobby shops, swimming pools, bowling
alleys, tennis courts—all in use during leisure
hours.

You would see soldiers enjoying television in
every company day room at Fort Monmouth, New
Jersey; lighted athletic fields at Fort McPherson,
Georgia, and other posts; an indoor rifle range and
a fourteen-table billiard hall in use at Camp Hood,
Texas, in addition to all the other varied recrea—
tion facilities. These examples could be multiplied
a thousandfold—all a part of “this man’s Army”
in peacetime.

The modern concept of military leadership takes
cognizance of the dignity and importance of the
individual soldier, and stresses genuine concern
for his welfare. Army morale work—of which rec-
reation is one phase—is therefore calculated to
bring out, encourage and develop the best that is
in the individual soldier. It brings him enjoyment
of his work and pride in his organization. It helps
to develop him individually as a member of a team
——a team that will be capable of bringing a most
profitable return on our national defense invest-
ment, in terms of peace and security.

The Army is convinced that a soldier must hnd

RECREATION

  
 
  

.ldier

  
 

_ — ..
‘ ID I
-:- 43. ~‘
I“. W
.
I l
.

 
  
 

was N'

T53- iiiiswmams an”
l. ? amen

‘3’ mama. 51m r  
VISITTi-lE ' - r

_ s, 9'7
Service Club .,“"”‘:“.é= i 5 7"“

     
 

vii-

 

 
  
  

go‘me
jaw. murmurs?»

", mammal

iskw. f i L
‘3» “V” i
W "is." V.

agar: F0“ Tupi
“£3112? 0? or”. .

frag 9055ng J 3? 
 r ,w .3 tie;  0° 1 " A
v.2”: xixwirnww

1 ‘ mentewimetmh

 

Army recreation directors hold frequent training conferences for improve-

ment of programs and to plan coordinated events with nearby communities.

satisfaction in his military environment, in his role
as a soldier off-duty as well as on-duty, if he is to
fulfill his potential of military strength and con-
tinue to be “the best soldier in the world.” It be-
lieves that the soldier is entitled to have readily
available on the post those leisure-time facilities
and activities he enjoyed in civilian life. It is con-
vinced that these things help to make him bold in
spirit, daring in enterprise, intelligent, resourceful
and courageous in carrying out his military duties.

The Office of the Chief of Special Services, un-
der General Herren, is the Army agency which
provides these benefits. It supervises and directs a
far-Hung Army recreation, entertainment and wel-
fare program that brings off-duty pleasures to
American soldiers wherever they are stationed—in
the United States and overseas.

This agency grew out of a report of Raymond D.
Fosdick to Secretary of War Newton D. Baker
after the first world war. In this report, Mr. Fos~
dick, then chairman of the “far Department Com-
mission on Training Camp Activities, recom-
mended that the Army assume responsibility for
on-post, leisure-time programs. These had been
carried on largely by civilian agencies during that
war. An Army Morale Branch, created late in
1918, for the study and survey of morale problems
in the Army, was terminated with \Vorld War I
demobilization, but it laid the basis for the present
development. The Office of the Chief of Special
Services is successor to the Morale Division, estab-
lished in July, 1940, by authority of the mobiliza-
tion regulations of 1939.

In the achievement of its mission—to provide a
healthy and interesting off-duty environment for
military personnel—Special Services functions in

JANUARY 1950

three principal ways: I) planning and organizing
recreation, entertainment and welfare programs;

- 2) providing facilities to house and otherwise en-

able these programs to operate; 3) training per-
sonnel at the Special Services School, Fort Mon—
mouth, to carry out the program.

Aside from the motion pictures and PX services
provided by the other components of Special Serv-
ices, Army Recreational Service promotes volun-
tary soldier-participation in planned leisure-time
pursuits that are as varied as the diversified inter-
ests and tastes of individuals in civilian life. Car-
ried out in the American way, this program offers
a challenge to the ingenuity and imagination of the
Special Services personnel who provide its leader-
ship at installations in the United States and over-
seas. In Washington, D. C., our small staff of
trained specialists is constantly at work devising
new all-Army programs, stimulating current ef-
forts, procuring equipment, recruiting professional
technicians for the field.

Here are some of the continuing special features
of this world-wide recreation-entertainment pro-
gram in operation wherever American tr00ps are
stationed:

Service Clubs at all Army posts form the back-
bone of the program and run the gamut of recrea-
tion activities—game tournaments, jam sessions,
tours, photographic clubs, arts and crafts, holiday
and special events, forums and exhibits. Clubs are
supervised by women directors with a professional
background in recreation. Here a soldier may bor-
row a music instrument to practice; make ceramic
jewelry; check out classical records or a small
game; play table tennis or billiards; participate in
a quiz show; perform in a variety skit, or dance

495

  
 
  
 

 
  
 
     
     
 
 

 

Football has followed the soldier around the globe.

Here a group is scrimmaging somewhere in Japan.

with a young lady from a nearby community, who
has volunteered her leisure time to assist the Army
in its recreation program.

In the castle in Bavaria, the Nissen hut in Korea.
or in the brick building which faces the Golden
Gate Bridge, the Army Service Club is the meeting
place for the soldier’s family and his friends. Spe-
cial clubs and events are planned for wives and
children of the men. The neighboring communities
assist the club program through their local USO
and civilian committees.

In the past year, total attendance in the Army’s
330 service clubs in the United States and overseas
areas was approximately 476,000,000. Over 1,100
full-time professional recreation directors are su-
pervising activities in the club program. Special
Services also has recruited over 900 professional
club personnel for overseas employment in the past
two years, and is constantly employing young rec-
reation workers to replace those who have com—
pleted their contracts. Periodic training institutes
are held in the United States and overseas for staff
personnel. In nearly all Army commands, infor-
mation bulletins are published on successful recre-
ation programs and exchanged with other areas.

A special feature of this program, stemming from
our Library Branch in 1Washington, D. C., is a
twenty-five book monthly kit of the latest fiction
and non-fiction selected, in many instances, before
publication and quickly forwarded overseas and to
certain U.S. camps so that soldiers may read the
new books simultaneously with the civilian public.
Similarly, paper—bound books and magazines are
sent out in monthly kits to the ever-eager soldier
readers.

An all-Army short story contest, which ended in
November, has stimulated great interest among

496

literary-minded soldiers. Through efforts of our
Library Branch, prize-winning entries in this con-
test will be published in Collier’s magazine and the
authors whose entries thus rate will be paid $1,000
each for their efforts. In addition, ten or more of
the best stories will be published in a collected
volume by Rhinehart and Company, New York.
with all royalties apportioned among the authors.

Army hobby shops, dotting the globe, provide
facilities and equipment for a wide variety of in—
terests. For the soldier with creative talents, they
afford incentive for development of skills, whether
in photography—the number one hobby in the serv-
ice—plastics, leathercraft, carving, painting, wood—
block printing and so on.-

Interest in this program is stimulated by inter-
service and all-Army photography and crafts con-
tests, initiated by our hobby shop section. The
recent 1949 Army Crafts Contest finals brought to
the Pentagon some 200 items, created by Ameri-
can soldiers all over the world, and the resultant
judging and exhibition attracted wide attention
and commendation. Master Sergeant Benjamin P.
Moody, of Instruction Detachment, Texas Na-
tional Guard, ASU 4405, Austin, Texas, who won
the first prize with a handsome purse and billfold
set, was flown to \Vashington for a special presen—
tation ceremony. The 1949 Inter-Service Photog—
raphy Contest culminated last spring in a huge
exhibit of final entries at the Smithsonian Institute,
and was viewed by thousands of interested persons.

In what is probably the largest intramural pro-
gram ever undertaken, Army Recreational Service.
through its sports branch, has deveIOped “sports
for all” activities to fit the needs of all soldiers,
regardless of age. Today, thousands of American
soldiers all over the world engage in and watch
games of their choice—whether its boxing, basket-
ball, softball, tennis, golf, track and field, horse-
shoe pitching, swimming, or a variety of other
sports.

In several competitive sports, leagues and tour-
naments start at the post level and spiral up
through the echelons of command, culminating in
all-Army and inter-service championships. Six of
these tournaments—in boxing, basketball, bowling,
tennis, golf and baseball— in 1949 brought soldier
“stars” from the far corners of the earth to tourna-
ment cities in the United States. At Fort Myer,
Virginia, 6,000 persons watched the all-Army box-
ing finals, while hundreds of others were turned
away disappointed.

Sports plans for 1950 are well underway and
Army boxers around the globe already are training

 

' for the all-Army bouts in the Third Army next

RECREATION

February. Volleyball has been added to the list of
events, evening up the total so that every major
Army command in the United States will sponsor
one major world-wide Army tournament during
’50. While these sports events offer all military
personnel the opportunity of participating in “the
game for the game’s sake,” their significance goes
deeper than that. For competitive games develop
initiative, responsible judgment, team spirit, the
ability to take direction, and the ability to lead——
qualities the Army needs and seeks to foster.

Soldiers with histrionic ability or with special
technical interests in the theatrical field have wide
opportunity to develop their talents through the
soldier-show program. Acceleration of this pro-
gram was deemed necessary with the discontinua-
tion of USO-Camp Shows, through which profes-
sional entertainment was provided for the Army.
At most posts, camps and stations in the United
States and overseas, you will find soldiers fre-
quently using their leisure in planning, rehearsing
and producing variety shows and other dramatic
performances for their own enjoyment and that of
their buddies. Trained entertainment technicians-m
young women with technical theatrical training and
variety—show talent—uhelp to stimulate these varied
activities.

The entertainment training project conducted at
Fort Dix from September to November, 1949,
under the sponsorship of Army Recreational Serv-
ice and First Army, has been an interesting ex-
periment in soldier-shows work. It stressed unifi-
cation in this field as members of the Army, Air
Force and Marine Corps participated—seventy—six
in all. Military personnel, already endowed with
talent and training, were given intensive courses in
soldier-show work and music with the idea that
they would go back to their home posts and create
or accelerate programs of live entertainment and
music. Supervision and training were provided by
experts in the field.

High qualifications were demanded of personnel
taking the course: general classification test scores
of I00 or better, theatrical and/or music training,
talent and experience. Bandsmen nominated for
the course were required to represent a varied in-
strumentation including brass, reed and percussion
instruments and ability to lead a section. Length
of remaining service was important, too. Nominees
were required to have at least one year remaining
in current enlistment or agree to extend enlistment
up to one year—thus insuring that service benefits
would accrue from the training. An elaborate
demonstration soldier—show—a musical comedy—H
was written, staged and produced by the students

JANUARY 1950

 

Special Services training school includes a special
ten week hobby crafts course for enlisted personnel.

as the finale to the intensive sixty-day course.

In the field of music, in addition to its immedi-
ate application to the soldier-shows program, in-
creased benefits are available for today’s soldier.
Monthly Hit Kits of popular songs are distributed
by Army Recreational Service as well as instru-
ments and orchestrations. A whole new field of
music has been added with the promotion of a new
barbershop quartet program at Army installations
through cooperation on a “partnership” basis with
the Society for the Preservation and Encourage-
ment of Barbershop Singing in America, Incor-
porated. The aims are to have at least one quartet
in each Army Service Club; to organize a Post
Barbershop Chorus in addition to quartets in every
large post; to encourage qualified soldiers to seek
membership in chapters of the SPEBSA in com—
munities near Army posts. The society has of-
fered to the Army its approximately 600 chapters
in the United States, Alaska, Hawaii and Guam
and 30,000 members to assist in developing this
program.

The Army Song Contest, conducted early this
year as one phase of the Army’s search for an of-
ficial song, stimulated the cultural aspect of the
Army recreation program. It resulted in the choice
of five prize-winning songs now being sung and
played inside the Army and out to determine if
any one “catches on” sufficiently to be given the
“official” title.

Hobbies, music, soldier-shows, movies, books and
magazines, sports, games, parties—all have their
part in the planned Army recreation program. Or-
ganized tours to places of interest, rest and recrea-
tion centers where soldiers may spend furloughs
and enjoy the exhilaration and pleasures of real
vacation spots, are other inducements offered for

497

the proper use of a soldier’s leisure hours. The ac—
tivities are so varied, soldiers may entertain them-
selves or be entertained as they wish.

To some it may not be known that this vast rec-
reation program is financed largely through funds
provided by the self-supporting post exchange and
motion picture services. Actually, eighty-five per-
cent of this world-wide operation is thus financed,
with only fifteen percent of the money coming
from the American taxpayers. In the final analy-
sis, Army Special Services receives only one
twenty—third of one percent of the moneys appro~
priated by the Congress for the Army, yet it has
been able to endow richly the sons and daughters
of America with recreation benefits that may help
direct the course of their lives into healthy channels.

The peacetime duties of our Army are vital, and
the morale of our soldiers is highly important. Our
present Army is not only safeguarding the victory
won in \Vorld War II, but is serving as a bulwark
for the cause of peace. The Army Recreational
Service of Special Services—in providing proper
recreation and entertainment—is not only helping
to keep morale at a high point and exerting moral
influence on the young men and women in our
Army, but is thus serving to help secure the peace
of the world which we all so earnestly desire.

PROMPT SHIPMENTS of

LARSON
LEATHER

For EVERYTHING in leather—write
larson Leathercraft Headquarters.

EXperienced leather workers will be interested
in our prompt delivery and Wide variety, com-
prising the largest complete stock of leather
and leathercraft supplies in America. We
Offer moderate-priced tooling leathers as well
as top quality calfskins.

For beginners we have ready-cut projects with
free instructions for assembly. NO tools and
no experience necessary.

Tools, materials and free instructions for making:

0 GLOVES 0 KEY CASES

0 LINK BELTS o 100 OTHER POPULAR ITEMS
0 PYROSTRIP 0 BILLFOLDS

0 MOCCASINS 0 WOOLSKIN MITTENS and

0 COIN PURSES TOY ANIMALS

0 COMB CASES

Send for FREE catalog

J. C. LARSON CO., Inc.

Dept. AR, 820 S. Tripp Ave. Chicago 24, III.

498

 

THE NATIONAL SECTION
OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

of the

American Association for Health,

Physical Education, and Recreation

Jdnnounced f/zaf

Beginning August 1, 1949 the oflicial
publisher for all the publications and
Ollicial Sport Guides of the National
Section on Women’s Athletics will be the

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION
of the NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIA-
TION instead of A. S. Barnes 8: Co.

All orders should be addressed to:

National Section on Women’s Athletics

I201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.

  
  
   
  

.‘K" ,

, ’1‘!"

 first Choice
for

6 very Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

 

I”! FINISI‘ IA! 1'”! Flt'lp .’
usuurscrusme company . st. touts a. no.

  

RECREATION

Recreation

Holiday Recipe

Holidays and special days provide a nucleus
around which good recreation programs, featuring
plays, parties, games, storytelling and other activ—
ities can be built. Add some ingenuity and origi—
nality to your background research, and your recipe
for a celebration on one of the following February
days is sure to provide spicy results !

February
2-——Ground Hog Day
8—Boy Scout Day, part of Boy Scout Week
I I—Birthday of Thomas A. Edison
12—Abraham Lincoln’s birthday
t4—St. Valentine’s Day
I9-26—National Brotherhood Week
22—George VVashington’s birthday
27—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow’s birthday

“Uses for Waste Materials”

This popular bulletin—hrst issued in 1939 by
the Association for Childhood Education Interna—
tional, and just recently revised—suggests many
things that children can make from materials which
might otherwise be discarded. How to make a
Clothespin doll, button mold faces on kid glove
iingers to make a puppet; what to do with boxes,
barrels, baskets, bags, tissue and wrapping paper
have been included here, along with suggestions
for making newspapers, catalogues and magazines
into sleeping mats, papier mache animals, posters
and booklets. Many odds and ends of materials—
such as sawdust, ice cream spoons, toothpicks,

corks, milk bottle tops—~are used in strange and
often humorous combinations.

“Uses for Waste Materials,” an answer to rainy-
day and “what-can-we-do-now ?” problems, can be
obtained from the Association for Childhood Edu-
cation International, 1200 Fifteenth Street, N.W.,
W'ashington 5, D. C., for hfty cents.

JANUARY 1950

Suggestion

Box

 

Annual Report

Recreation departments are realizing, more and
more, how very important a good annual report
can be and how much use can be made of it. We
all know that people just will not read figures,
statistics and long explanations.

For this reason, the National Recreation Asso—
ciation has just issued a compilation of its mate—
rial on this subject, guaranteed to help you if you
are writing an annual report for the hrst time, and
guaranteed to make your new annual report more
interesting than last year’s. This bulletin may be
ordered as MP 419, and is priced at ten cents.

Diff erent Checkers

“Crossing the Board” is a variation of the
familiar checker game. One player takes the black
and the other the red checkers. Each sets one man
on each of the eight Spaces across the board nearest
him, using both the black and red squares. The
object of the game is to get all your men across
the board into the eight “home” spaces of your
opponent. You may move one space at a time in
any direction to a space unoccupied by your own
or an opponent’s man. You may jump, but you
only advance your man and do not “take” your op—
ponent’s man when you do so..

Publicity for Recreation

From time to time, the National Recreation As-
sociation has issued a number of line bulletins on
publicity and its importance to every recreation
department and leader. Believing as it does that
good publicity is even more important than ever,
the Association has brought all this material to-
gether into one mimeographed bulletin. It is now
available as “Publicity for Recreation” (MP 424)
at twenty-live cents. Be sure to order your copy.

499

 

gfun
'to learn—fun to teach

I
I
THIS l‘EW BOOKLET SHOWS YOUPIOWZ

Need some ideas for your recreational program?

This bright new illustrated booklet will help you{

Square Dancing 

   
 

’oun students will find loads of fun
in the age-old steps of the newly
popular Square Dance. They’ll
think it an ideal recreation. You’ll
find it’s fun for everybody because
everybody joins in! To show you
how it’s done, here’s a bright new
booklet — just full of down-to-earth
practical instruction and easy-to-
follow pictures. It’s written by Chris
Sanderson —the “Square Dance
King!” You can use it for everyday
recreation—or for special parties.

It is oHered by the makers of
Hires because they believe that
Americans of all ages need the sort
of friendliness and sociability that
Square Dancing provides.

CHARLES E. Hams Co.
Dept. R, 206 S. 24th Street, Phila. 5, Pa. '

Please send me copies of your new booklet, “Hires Throws
a Square Dance with Chris Sanderson.” I enclose 10 cents in coin
each for handling and mailing charges. Please—no stamps!

Name

School

 

RECREATION

 

“ VERYBODY’S DOIN’ IT l” Doin’ what? Square

dancing, of course. Following the fall-winter—
spring season of club dances, Pontiac, Michigan’s
square dance groups join forces for a festival which
is the high point of the year’s activity. Three adult
clubs and one-teen-age group take part. The first
attempt to stage such a festival was in 1948, when
a variety show was presented. Members of the
dance groups arranged their own numbers for ex-
hibition. and wore either their. club costumes or
street clothes.

The 1949 festival was a pageant of folk dancing
in America. Starting with a Maypole dance (first
done in America in 1628), the groups of dancers
traced the development of American dances through
the Jazz Age up to the present day square dance
revival. Attention was given to the influence of
French, German, Polish, Irish, Swedish, Latin
American and Negro rhythms, music and dance
patterns on “American” dancing.

Costumes provided work for weeks ahead of
time, but they were fun, too. The group doing the
minuet found that miracles can be accomplished
with crepe paper. The ladies’ ruffled dresses and
the men’s short breeches and swallowtail coats were
made of it. Incidentally, crepe paper sews even
more easily than cloth, and it allows many short—
cuts. Foundations are necessary, but these were
made from discarded materials and garments. Sin—
gle—breasted coats were the base on which the
colonial gentlemen’s coats were sewn, with no

Mn. Slaerrod i: rnpewiror of special activities, Pon—
tiac, Michigan, Department of Park: and Recreation.

JANUARY 1950

ESTHER R. SHERROD

damage to the foundation garment. The average
cost of a costume, including wigs and hose, for
even the most elaborate number, was one dollar
and thirty-seven cents—so participants were able
to make and pay for their own.

Popular numbers of the program were the Vien-
nese Waltz; the Kentucky running set, accom-
panied only by drum and hand clapping; the Ori-
ental Lancers, complete with bustles and tails; the
Cakewalk, the Charleston, and an exhibition jitter-
bug! Performers slipped gleefully into unaccus-
tomed roles. The found it was fun to assume
“first position” a la 1895 and to bow “froin the
waist.” They appreciated the stately, measured
movements of the minuet — those crepe paper
breeches wouldn’t have withstood the active move—
ments of the cowboy quadrille, and h00p skirts de-
manded caution in sitting, walking and bowing.

A running commentary, read by a narrator,
sketched the shifting social scene of American life.
Typical scenes in color were projected on a screen,
the slides having been made from pictures bor-
rowed from the Detroit library. A vocalist added
color and “folksiness” by singing snatches of
“Home, Sweet Home,” “Oh, Susanna,” “On Top
of Old Smoky,” and other folk tunes at appropri-
ate spots in the script.

One of the purposes of the festival—in addition
to bringing to a climax the year’s activity and giv-
ing the clubs an opportunity to perform for the
public—is to interest more people in square danc—
ing. Consequently, after the show, the public was
invited to “do-si-do” and “promenade” with the
costumed club members.

501

The Folding, Portable, Porter
 BASKETBALL BABKSTBP

In five minutes it can be folded m \\ . In use, it has the rigidity.of a sta-
qnd rolled away to dem- fhe ‘ tlonary backstop . . . but It can be

stage or the gymnasium floor whisked out' of sight or set up again
for other activities in a iiffy . . . It is secured to the floor‘.
0 a Q

by four easy-turning hand-wheels that

 _ screw into flush floor-plates, so no ob-

"  '. structions remain when the "Rollaway",

" is stored' under the stage or in the

I equipment closet . . . Simply withdraw

four lock-pins and the "Rollaway" col-

lapses, and rolls away on 5-inch cas-

ters . . . Yes, these are some of the

reasons why Architects, School‘ Boards

and coaches unanimously agree the

Porter "Rollaway" is in a class by it-

self . . . Further, the Rollaway complies

with all official requirements, has the

bank braced out 5-feet from the verti-

cal support . . . and'is supplied with

either fan-shaped or rectangular bank

. . . Write for attractive price and if

for stage use give the distance from
stage to playing court. "

    

   

When folded for storage the Porter "Rollaway" is
only 38-inches high (not including the goal). It can
be stored under the stage.

  
 
 
 
 
 

Auditoriums can now be free
of visible basketball backstops,
thanks to the Porter "Rollaway".
Removable in S-rninutes, none-
theless the "Rollaway" is as
rigid as a stationary backstop.

THE J. E. _ CORPORATION
‘  - OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFAUllRERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or me WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM$ cummmie
Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off. 

5(12 RECREATION

In the Field . . .

WILLARD H. SHUMARD

OLKS IN THE New York office of the National
Recreation Association seldom have the op-
portunity of seeing Bill Shumard around the place,
for he is the Northwest District Representative for
the Association and, as such, sticks pretty close
to the many projects that he has helped get under-
way in that area. They’ll tell you out there that
he’s a good man, and mean it.

Bill is a young and energetic Midwesterner who
genuinely enjoys people, and registers that fact in-
stantly. His hearty laugh has a way of penetrating
every nook and corner, for he loves a good joke
and does a lot of kidding.

He’s been interested in recreation ever since he
can remember, and everything he has done in life
has led him inevitably toward the sort of work in
which he is now engaged. He received his BA.
degree from Peru State Teachers College, Peru,
Nebraska, for a physical education and coaching
major, and for a strong minor in speech and drama.
This last subject always has been one of his favor-
ites. All through his student days he was active
in extra-curricular activities—debating, dramatics,
swimming, athletics—and was chairman of the stu-
dent recreation committee.

Directly out of college he coached athletics at
Giltner High School, Giltner, Nebraska, and his
basketball team won the league championship for
two years running. While there he also taught
physical education, speech, and dramatics. His next
four school years were spent teaching speech, dra-
matics, and ournalism at Bent County High School,
Las Animas, Colorado. On the outside he kept busy
officiating sports, and organized a community little
theater which took over the Presbyterian parish
house for the presentation of plays.

JANUARY 1950

 

He continuedrecreation work in the summers,
and taught a great deal of swimming, at one time
managing the large natatorium of Lakeside, in-
Denver. Before the war, his last four summers
were spent in getting his M.A. degree in speech
and drama at Colorado State College of Education,
and in acting and working as stage manager in
The Little Theatre of the Rockies in Greeley, Colo—
rado. Just before he went into military service he
was head of the speech and drama departments in
the Canon City schools, Canon City, Colorado, and
also part-time instructor of speech at St. Scholastic-
Academy there.

Everything Bill has done has been accomplished.
with an enthusiasm and vigor which makes its suc-
cess assured from the beginning. He has a flair for-
the organization of social activities, a way of get--
ting along with people, a sincerity of purpose,.
which helps get things done.

It was natural, then, that when he joined up he
became a Welfare and Recreation Officer in Uncle
Sam’s Navy. It was while he was assigned as Wel—~
fare and Recreation Officer to the Naval Receiving
Station, Casco Bay, Portland, Maine, that the Na-
tional Recreation Association heard about him and‘.
decided to watch this promising young man. At
Casco Bay there are a group of small islands on«
which were established a series of recreation in-
stallations and a recreation staff of about sixty
men. The fleet came in to these islands, instead of'
to the mainland, and there was a big recreation 0b
to be done. Bill helped do it—in a big way. He-
was with the Navy for four years.

In the meantime, the National Recreation As-
sociation was facing the problem of dividing the
large area in the Pacific Northwest into two areas,

503-

and of getting a second district representative to
take on the recreation work in that territory. Bill
Shumard, upon his discharge from service four
years ago, was asked to come to New York for an
interview.

“W7 hat an interview,” comments Bill, “I was
greatly impressed! Mr. Braucher, Mr. Reed and
Mr. Sutherland fired questions at me for two and
a half days. Believe me, it was thorough. They
worked on me in batteries, individually and col—
lectively, and even had me bring in Dottie, my wife,
so that they could chat with her. They wanted to
know my philosophy of life, my attitudes and views
on everything.” _

Apparently he came through with flying colors,
for he was offered the job before he left; and, after
he reached the west coast, he wired his acceptance.
He went to Tacoma, Washington, for three
months’ orientation with the public recreation de-
partment, and then traveled through the area with
George Braden for a while. He worked with
Spokane as his headquarters for a year, and then
returned to Tacoma, where he and Mrs. Shumard
-now have their home.

Bill had met attractive Dorothy Shumard at
Peru State Teachers College and she has been ex-
‘tremely helpful and sympathetic with his work.
She travels with him as his secretary, assisting him
-with his correspondence and reports.

A district representative has a busy time of it,
:and is constantly on the move, but the work is
far reaching, and Bill is thrilled with its scope and
-challenge. Among other things, it is the job of the
district representative to help communities with no
recreation program to get started, to set one up; to
bring new information, new methods, suggestions
to established recreation departments; to speak to
‘local groups, to personnel; to help arouse local in-
terest in recreation, fund raising, special pro-
-grams; to help in the selecting and guidance of per-
sonnel.

A district representative guides communities to
~whom recreation is new, through correspondence
and personal visits. He helps set up a recreation
-council with representatives of various local or—
-ganizations, and guides them in forming a smaller,
more streamlined group which might be a commis-
sion, board or recreation committee. He works
with city. officials so that the city government will
'-be aware of, and interested in, the need and local
desire for a recreation department. He helps in
setting up city ordinances, recreation budgets,
plans for money raising; sits in on meetings, and
attempts to get various local authorities, schools
:and other agencies, interested in the project; helps

.504

them to take advantage of all facilities and existing
resources of the community for raising money to
form a department which will offer a balanced pro—
gram for people of all ages. He helps iind a di-
rector and assists the director in getting things
properly underway. Bill Shumard, with his ability
to organize and to get along with people, fitted into
this community picture very well indeed.

An Association district representative holds a
district conference eyery year so that municipal
and other public recreation administrators can ex-
change information and experience on the practi-
cal day-to-day problems they face. He makes
available to the delegates and to the cities he visits
the total services of the Association; schedules spe-
cialists on the Association’s national staff to talk,
lead panel discussions, and so on.

Bill approached his responsibilities with humil—
ity and an eagerness to learn. He states: “A young
and new district representative like myself owes
much of the success he may achieve to the way in
which he is received and helped by public adminis-
trators and executives in the field. They always
lean over backwards to offer all possible assistance.
One is constantly grateful and never stops learn-
ing.”

One of the things that he finds most satisfying
about his job is that he may go into a community
where there is no interest in recreation, drop as
many seeds as he can, leave thinking they won’t
develop for years, and yet get a call six months
later asking him to come back. In a couple of years
there may be an active department.

“Especially is one thrilled with growth,” says
Bill, “growth of understanding of the recreation
movement; of what can be done, needs to be done;
of what individuals themselves can do to make their
own lives richer.”

Bill was born on a farm and always has loved
the out-of—doors. He enjoys outdoor cooking and
camping, and carries camping equipment in the
car just to have it handy. For the last two years

_he and Mrs. Shumard have gone to Olympic Na-

tional Park on their vacations and “back-packed
up into the hills.”

They both love to dance, too, and are very much
in evidence on the floor at the dancing sessions
during national recreation congresses. Bill’s other
leisure—time interests are iishing, the theatre, of
course—though he hasn’t much time to devote to
dramatics these days—and his automobile. He
loves to drive, to tinker with the car, and he really
knows what makes it tick.

The recreation interests of his district, his wife
and himself seem to be in hand. Good luck, Bill!

RECREATION

WP. leecreation :Director:

0 Are you satisfied that your community
is getting the most out of its recreation
dollar? If not, why not consider

Municipal Recreation Administration

This practical correSpondence course is
especially designed for recreation administra-
tors and leaders who are responsible for the
planning and direction of municipal recreation
programs.

Available through either individual or group

enrollments, this course includes a 516-page
textbook, individualized lesson instruction, and
certificate upon satisfactory completion; Entire

cost $35.

D I  N D (Approved under G. 1. Bill)

Carefully balanced. DrOp—forged of special steel, For details write

heat-treated to prevent chipping or breaking. Dead-
falling qualities unexcelled. TH E I N STITU T E F0 R T RAIN I N G

 

Stocked by leading distributors everywhere.   
Write for catalog of Diamond Pitching
Horseshoes and complete accessories. Conducted since  
    THE INTERNATIONAL CITY MANAGERS' ASSOCIATION

4616 GRAND AVENUE - DULUTH, MINN. 1313 East 60th Street Chicago 37

 

 

Here’s how it’s done

SUCCESSFULLY

WHEN IT COMES to organized camping—whether your inter-
est is that of a camp owner, comrnitteeman, director, or staflC
member—it takes Knowledge with a capital “K” to be fully suc-
cessful in modern camp operation. That’s Why thousands of the
best, most progressive, most successful camp operators join the
American Camping Association, read its ofEcial publication
CAMPING MAGAZINE every month from cover to cover to keep
themselves up-to-date. on authoritative information on the best
in camping.

You too can keep up-to-date on camping by starting your sub—
scription to CAMPING MAGAZINE right NOW! $3.00 per year in
U. S., $3.25 in Canada, for eight fine issues published monthly,
November through June. Let CAMPING MAGAZiNE help you all
through busy 1950. Use the handy coupon below.

 

I f payment accompanies CAMPING MAGAZINE

order, saving us time 7 05 PARK AVENUE,_PLA1NFIELD, N. J.

and bookkeeping, we’ll Please enter my subscription to CAMPING MAGAZINE

send you FREE 4 copy at $100 Per year'

of the latest annual Name ...................................................................................................................... .-

rrBOOks  Camping), is- Sctreet  N0. ................................... "2 ........................................................ .-

me. Act now while our zty .......................... .l ................................. .. one ............. "Staten": ................. ..
E] Payment herewnh, D Payment W111 be sent

supply lasts. send free Book Issue on receipt of invoice

 

 

JANUARY 1950 505

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

.Design Technics. Design Publishing Company, Co-
lumbus, Ohio.

Parents’ Magazine, November 1949
\Vhy Play Is Important, James L. Hymes, Jr.
Television and Your Child, Henrietta Battle.

Selective Bibliography on the Welfare of Older Peo-
ple. \Velfare Council of New York City, 44 East
23 Street, New York 10. $1.00.

Growing Up Socially, Ellis \Veitzman. Science Re-
search Associates, Incorporated, 228 S. \Vabash
Avenue, Chicago 4, Illinois.

Getting Along in the Family, Jane Mayer. _Bureau of
Publications, Teachers College, Columbia Univer-
sity, New York. $.60.

Pacific Crest Trailway, Clinton C. Clarke. The Pa-
cific Crest Trail System Conference, Pasadena,
California. $2.25.

Parks and Recreation, October 1949
New Recreation Areas Along the Charles River
Basin.
Music in the Parks, Paul V. Brown.
Maintenance Mart. ‘

The Survey, October 1949
Neighborliness at the UN, Roger \Villiam Riis.

Journal of Physical Education, September-October
1949
Square Dancing—An Ideal.
Recreation Activity, Laurence B. Cairns.

Beach and Pool, October 1949
Algae Control, F. R. McCrumb.
The Pool’s Safety Program, John B. Dunne.

Junior League Magazine, October 1949
Talent Unlimited, Mary Brinkerhoff.
Indian Pageant, Jan Cheairs.

Focus on the Festival, Helen H. Thenebe.

American City, October 1949
Needed: More Municipal Golf Courses, Robert
Bruce Harris.

Playgrounds at New York Housing Projects.

Is It Legal to Pay Convention Expenses of Public
Officials? James A. Tobey.

Scholastic Coach, October 1949
School Your thcials, Irwin Klein.
Standard Layout for Football Lighting.

Journal of American Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, October 1949

Problems Involving Legal Liability in Schools,
Donald P. Guenther.

The Case for Co-recreation, Hollis F. Fait.

R E M I N D E R
WM 97am!
Ml/Lk/KG ggtoyamen/

is built by
3k

for catalog, address:

Dept. R, W. .I. VOIT RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 25th St.

los Angeles 11, Calif.
*Reg. U. 3. Pat. OH.

506

 

Books Received

Cinderella Puppet Show. Simon and Schuster, New

York. $1.00.

Community Centres—Planning Procedure and Stand-
ards. School of Architecture, University of Mani-
toba, \Vinnipeg, Canada. $1.00.

Educators Guide to Free Slidefilms—1949. Educators
Progress Service, Randolph, \Visconsin. $3.00.

Manual of Lifesaving and Water Safety Instruction,
Charles E. Silvia. Association Press, New York.

4.50. ,

Mini$ature Course Planning, Construction and Main-
tenance. National Golf Foundation, Chicago 5,
Illinois. $1.00.

Planning Your Home Workshop, edited by Sam
Brown. Popular Mechanics Press, Chicago, Illi-
nois. $2.50.

Plant in My Window, The, Ross Parmenter. Thomas
Y. Crowell Company, New York. $2.50.

POpular Mechanics Christmas Handbook; POpular
Mechanics Money-Making Hobbies. Popular Me-
chanics Press, Chicago, Illinois. $2.00 each.

Right Dog for Joe, The, Irmengarde Eberle. Dodd,
Mead and Company, New York. $2.50.

Social Welfare Forum, The. Columbia University
Press, New York.

Sports Officiating, edited by Elmer D. Mitchell. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $4.00.

Square Knot Handicraft Guide, Raoul Graumont and
Elmer Wenstrom. Cornell Maritime Press, Cam-
bridge, Maryland, $3.50.

Teaching Beginners to Swim, compiled by Beach and
Pool. Hoffman—Harris, New York. $2.50.

Youth—Key to America’s Future, M. M. Chambers

and Elaine Exton. American Council on Educa-
tion, Washington, D. C. $2.00.

CUSTOM BUILT

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

EKDAHL TRAVEL CLIMB

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

George Ekdahl and Associates
P. o. 474 HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

The “Big Jump" In

Recreation Appeal
LearnAbouf

TRAMPOLINING

Intense Participant-Spectator Interest . . .
Founded by NISSEN, Creator and Pio-
neer of America’s First Standard
TRAMPOLINE“=

Write for FREE LITERATURE
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

 

RECREATION

 

Community Sports and Athletics

National Recreation Association. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $4.00.

N WRITING the National Recreation Association

regarding this new book—"which was edited for
_the association by George D. Butler—Harry Hains-
worth, director of recreation in Buffalo, who is
familiar in the sports and recreation field, says:

“Mr. Butler’s book on C mnmzmity Sports and
Athletics is one of the most comprehensive publi-
cations of its kind which I have ever been privi-
leged to read. Among the impressions gathered is
the skillful approach to the various phases of com-
petitive sports. The information is presented in
such a manner as to simplify the application of
principles by the newcomer to the field, yet pre-
senting a clear picture of up-to-date thinking for
the well-initiated. Recreation directors throughout
the land should welcome this book. It will add
greatly to efficient competitive sports programs and
should be in the library of any one who is inter-
ested in the field of recreation.”

Sports Officiating

Edited by Elmer D. Mitchell. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $4.00.

THIS BOOK, brought out last October, by this
time should be on the reference shelf of recreaw
tion leaders who are called upon to do sports offici-
ating, or who have anything to do with the admin—
istration of athletic contests. The material, which
has been gathered together from the varied experi-
ences of five individuals, discusses the administra-
tion, judging and refereeing of forty sports—among

JANUARY 1950

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

them, basketball, football, baseball, fencing, arch—
ery, bowling, golf, riHe shooting, bait and fly cast-
ing including skish, curling, lacrosse, ice hockey,
skiing, boxing, wrestling, tennis, and so on.

Excellent bibliographies are included and the nice
part about it is to find all of these sports between
the covers of one book. In addition” the authors
conveniently organize each official’s duties under
the headings, Before the Game, During the Game,
After the Game, presenting only those rules which
involve actual techniques.

Play with Plants

Millicent E. Selsam. William Morrow and Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

THIS LITTLE BOOK is not about gardening, but
about experiments one can make indoors with
jars, dishes, aquariums and flower pots. For in—
stance, do you know what can be done with radish
seeds? Colored ink and a carrot? Canary seed?
Parsnips or a sweet potato? Graphic drawings on
practically every page add to the eXplanations.
This is guaranteed to launch either children or
adults on a plant-growing project that can be ex-
citing as well as fun.

The Keene Party Book

Frances W. Keene. Farrar, Straus and Company,
New York. $2.50.

RECREATION LEADERS might well make a note of
this book to recommend to anxious mothers

507

who ask for advice and suggestions for putting on
a children’s party. Mrs. Keene, having raised four
children and being an imaginative person, has
worked out ideas to make such parties as exciting
and full of fun as possible. These are not elaborate
or time-consuming in preparation, and are the re-
sult of her own practical experience.

Material is presented for large groups, as well as
small ones; explicit directions are given for mak-
ing attractive, inexpensive invitations, table and
room decorations, party hats and other favors. NO
experience or training is needed. Valentine decora-
tions and hats, for instance, require such simple
materials as red cardboard, red and white crepe
paper, paper doilies and an old hat box. The sug-
gestions are clarilied by sketches.

Rural Welfare Services

Benson Y. Landis. Columbia University Press,
New York. $3.00.

DR. LAXDIS has prepared a useful summary of
rural. social needs and existing services. He
also points out current gaps in services and sug-
gests ways of filling them. The chapter on recrea-
tion covers briefly both small towns and villages as
well as the open country. Also included in the book
is a list of governmental and voluntary agencies
serving the rural field, and a selected bibliography.

Guiding Homeroom and Club Activities

Ruth Fedder. McGraw—Hill Book Company, New
York. $4.50

WRITTEN FOR CLASSROOM teachers, Guiding
Homeroom and Club Activities describes
and analyzes social group work procedure and ap-
plies its principles to group leadership in extra—
curricular activities. It draws freely on club and
homeroom experiences to cover the leader’s role in
the evaluation of what group work means to the
adolescent boy and girl. The book should prove
helpful to all leaders of adolescent groups.

A Text that “Has No Peer”

The National Recreation Association announces
that, since last February, 7,200 cOpies of the new

edition of Introduction to Community Recreation
have been sold. The book is being widely adopted

508

by colleges, 206 so far, as a textbook. Among the
many excellent comments about it are:

Professor D. B. V on Dalen, Department of Physi-
cal Education, University of Pittsburgh—

“The edition is remarkable for its balance of
breadth and detail. The author has skillfully se—
lected the most pertinent materials for obtaining
a comprehensive picture of community recreation.
The treatment is clearly stated and brings together
all the present deveIOpments.” '

Professor Jay B. Nash, chairman, Department of
Physical Education, Health and Recreation, New
York University——

“Introduction to Community Recreation by
George D. Butler stands foremost in the publica-
tions dealing with recreation. The book is well
documented and extensive in its coverage. It has
no peer today in the field of community recrea-
tron.”

Professor F, I. Moench, Director of Training,
Health, Physical Education and Recreation, State
'Teachers College, Cortland, New York—

“\V e consider this book a most valuable one and
use it as a text in our introductory and advanced
courses in community recreation. Inasmuch as we
train undergraduate majors in recreation, and
want to have them as well prepared for the broad
community program as possible, we are very
pleased that such a comprehensive and authentic
book is available for our use.”

Oflicers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Directors

REV. PAUL MOORE, JR., First Vice-President

MRS. Oanx L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSA‘N M. LEE, Third Vice—President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAX M. BIAS-.512, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRSY, Treasurer Emeritus

DIRECTORS

F. \V. H. Anans, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEHIS, Boston, Mass.
EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood. N: J.
MRS. ROBERT \Voons BLISS, \Vashmgton, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. Cannes, Jacksonville, Fla.
\VILLIAH H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON. New York. N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
ROBERT Crux-r, 3rd, Jericho, L. I., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, \Vash.
MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox, Michigan Cl?! In .
MR5. 10313 D. anzsox, Bellport, L. I., . . Y.
Susan M. LEE, New York, N. Y.
0110 T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.
CARI. E. MILLIxEx, Au sta, Me.
MR5. OGnEx L. MILLS, Voodbury, N.'Y.
REV. PAUL MOORE, JIL, Jersey City, 3. J.
MRS. SIGMUND STEnx, San Francisco, Calif.
GRAST TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

. . C. VVALSH, New York,  Y.

REDERICK M. \VARRURG, .\ew York, N. Y.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

January, February and March

Hayneville, Alabama

Miss Hulda Coleman, Superintendent of Schools,
January 2—6

Lowndes County.

Selma, Alabama

Miss Dorothy Hixson, Home Demonstration Agent,
January 9-13

Dallas County.

Mobile, Alabama

J. K. Clark, Superintendent of Schools,
January 16-20

Mobile County.

Fort Payne, Alabama

7 Harold Hayes, Superintendent of Schools,
January 23-2

DeKalb County.

Huntsville, Alabama

Dr. Harvey D. Nelson, Superintendent of City
January 30-February 3

Schools, Huntsville County.

Pacific Southwest

Schedule being developed.
February 13-March 24

Daytona Beach, Florida George F. Robinson, Superintendent of Recreation.

January 9-20

North Carolina

Dr. Harold Meyer, Post Office Box 1139,
January 23-27

Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

Winston-Salem, North Carolina

Loyd B. Hathaway, Superintendent of Recreation.
January 30-February 3

J 0plin, Missouri

Rev. Edwin G. Michael, South Joplin Christian
February 7-10

Church, 19th and Pearl Streets.

Topeka, Kansas

Miss Louise A. Scott, Executive Director, Topeka Girl
February 13-17

Scout Council, 213 Stormont Building.

Portland, Oregon

Miss Dorothea Lensch, Director of Recreation,
February 27-March 3

Room 115, City Hall.

Seattle, Washington

David J. Dubois, Superintendent of Parks and Recre-
March 6-17

ation, 608-A County City Building.

Yakima, Washington

Ed. Putnam, Metropolitan Park District.
March 20-24

Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

Miss Ruth E. Swezey, Executive Director, Playground
January 23-February 3

and Recreation Association of Wyoming Valley.

Newport News, Virginia

C. C. Nixon, Director of Recreation, Department of
February 6-17

Public Welfare.

Raleigh, North Carolina

Ralph J. Andrews, Director, Parks and Recreation
February 20-March 3

Department.

 

 

There's no better time than right now
to sit back and think what you will see

in your family’s eyes a few years from now.

Whether they glow with happiness or
turn aside with disappointment depends,
to a very large extent, upon what you
do now.

So plan now for that home you plan to
buy eventually . . . set aside money now
for his college education . . . plan now
for the day you can retire.

Decide now to put part of your salary
week after week, year after year in U. S.

gem  mow?

Your wife’s eyes: What will you
read in hers when she asks whether

you can afford that modest cottage
that’s for sale?

Your boy’s eyes: What will you
see in his eyes the day he asks

whether you can anrd to send
him to college?

Your own eyes: What will the
mirror tell you about them when
it’s time to retire, and take things
easier?

Savings Bonds, so that you will have the
money for the important things you and
your family want.

Insure your future by signing up on
the Payroll Savings Plan where you work,
or the Bond-A-Month Plan where you

have a checking account.

Chances are you won’t miss the money
now, but you certainly will a few short
years from now if you haven’t got it!!

P. S. Remember, too, that every $3 you
invest now in U. S. Savings Bonds returns
$4 to you in just ten short years.

Amman M a, guy; swing— ussAvmes BONDS .

' 4 Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the Magazine

 

8

Publishers of America as a public service.

