 

Q

t...

Q

let We 36 7W!

Here is a list of games, festivals and parties for the Thanksgiving
celebration in your home, community center, school or church.
The following publications may be ordered from the National
Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

All-American Party, An (MB 1373)—Games
and quizzes suitable for Thanksgiving. $.05

Blue Laws Party, The (MB 610)—A panto-
mime with reader, suitable for Thanksgiv-

ingtime ........$.05

Captain’s Dilemma, The (MP 89)—A playlet
based on the famous courtship of Miles
Standish . . . . . . . . $.10

Children of the Americas (MP 338)—A pag-
eant depicting, through song and dance,
historic periods of America . . . $.10

Dinner Table Fun (MP 185)—Games for your
after-dinner fun . . . . . . $.20

Faith of Our Fathers (MP 46)—A Pilgrim
pageant. The first part deals with the Pil-
grims—brings out clearly the signing of
the Mayflower Compact and also contains
a scene of the first Thanksgiving. The sec-
ond part of the pageant tells of the “Faith

of Our Fathers in Modern Times" . . $.25

Family Party for Thanksgiving, A (MB 1578)
 $.05

For a Happy Thanksgiving (Reprinted from
RECREATION magazine)—Suggestions for
a simple harvest community night consist-
ing of songs, dances and considerable
pageantry. Also suggests other possibili-
ties for harvest entertainments and festi-

vals..........$.10

Fun for Thanksgiving (MB 1576)—Games
and decorations . . . . . . $.05

Q

Harvest Festival (MP 133)—An outline for a
simple festival including a dance of the
autumn leaves, a Pilgrim procession, a
husking bee and others. May be produced
indoors or outdoors . . . . . $.10

Harvest Home Thanksgiving Party (MB 1579)
—Grand fun for a family celebration, $.05

Parties A to Z—Contains plans for a harvest
celebration . . . . . . . $.50

Parties for Special Days of the Year—In-
cluded is a complete plan for a Thanks-
giving party . . . . . . . $.50

Plays, Pageants, Festivals and Other Enter-
tainment Material for Thanksgiving

(MP342) . . . . . . . . $.10

Program for Thanksgiving, A (MP 367)—
Eight tableaux with narrators . . $.10

Thanksgiving Ceremonia|,A (MB 1421 )—For
church, school, or community auditorium
use. The Earth Mother and the Earth Chil-
dren take part in a procession, followed
by groups of Pilgrims, pioneers and those
who share their offerings . . . $.05

Thanksgiving Down On the Farm (MB 1892)
-—Decorations and games . . . $.05

Three Thanksgivings, The (MP 51 )—A No-
vember humoresque of the Thanksgivings
of the past, present and future. Especially

good for a community Thanksgiving cele-
bration.........$.25

Turkeys in the Treetop (MP 407)-——Games
and mixers for your party . . . $.10

Q

 
 
  

Editor, J osspn PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ

Vol. XLIV Price 35 Cents No. 5

On the Cover

Halloween! ! The word is magic to the ears of
the young of all ages, and the time is just
right for a little recreation sorcery to be
spread by departments throughout the coun-
try. Cast a. spell; call up the djinns, goblins,
ghouls and witches from their dark haunts
and make your October program one to be
remembered by all! Photo, courtesy Na-
tional Biscuit Company.

Photo Credits

Page 243, Greensboro Recreation Depart-
ment, North Carolina; page 253, Paul A.
Moore, Tennessee Conservation Department;
page 255, Hofmann, Freising, Germany; page
257, Phillips, San Pedro, California; page
261, John Gass, The Scarsdale Inquirer,
Scarsdale, New York; page 264-, top and bot-
tom, page 265, Theo Frey, Zurich, Switzer-
land; page 264, center, page 266, E. T. S.
Magglingen; page 272, Los Angeles Recrea-
tion and Park Department, California.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a serv-
ice organization supported by voluntary contributions,
at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York; is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers'
Guide: Subscriptions $3.00 a year. Canadian agency,
G. R. Welch Company, Ltd., 1149 King Street West,
Toronto 1, Ontario; Canadian subscription rate 83.85.
Re-entered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the
Post Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of March
3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of post-
age provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3,
1917, authorized May _1, 1924.

Advertising Representative, H. Tbayer Heston, 415
Lexington Avenue, New York.

Copyright, 1950, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U. S. A.

 

COMING NEXT MONTH

Our November issue will carry THE
MAYOR’S CHRISTMAS PARTY, postponed from
the October issue, and suggestions for
Thanksgiving programs; articles on home
play; the relation of group work, recreation
and mental hygiene; hospital recreation;
community education and recreation; a
sports carnival. Watch particularly for Part
I of THE USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS FOR REC-
REATION—the NRA study which was announc-
ed in Things You Should Know . . . , Septem-
ber issue. Part II will be published in De-

cember.

OCTOBER 1950

 

     
 
 
 

I

/ // ’1

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

OCTOBER 1950

N ow You Can Belong (editorial), Joseph Prendergast . .235

Recreation Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .236
How to Write for RECREATION. . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .237
Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 238
Model Aviation, Frederic Howard . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239
Community Singing, Arthur Todd . . . . . . . . . 242
Working Board Members, R. O. Schlenter. . 245
Wear the Red Feather! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Bicycling and Hosteling as a Program Activity,

Frank W. Harris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24?
Bicycle Institute of America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 249
In-Service Training for Park Employees, E. P. Romilly 250
Flicker Ball, Paul C. Sisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
The Swiss Twist to Sports, Harry Kursh . . . . . . . . . . , . 261
College Students as Camp Counselors, Robert E. Link 267
Biddy Basketball, Jay Archer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . s . 270
International Festival of Square Dancing . . . . . . . . . , 271
California Cities Plan Meeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
DE; for the Ladies, Ward Greene . . . . . . . . 273
We Square Danced the Winter Away, Toni Cherpes 275
A New “Out” Look, Mildred Scanlon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
Meet the Music Masters, Herman J. Rosenthal. . . 280
William Parkyn Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . 283
Halloween
An Organized Halloween Celebration. . . , . . . . 255
Mask-Making is Exciting, Ernest B. Ehrke 257
For the Halloween Table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200
Windows Bloom on Goblin Night. . . . . .. . . 261
Regular Features
Recreation Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . 282
Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . 284
Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
New Publications . . . . , . 28?

Recreation Leadership Courses Inside Back Cover

Ni

H“

234

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

 

Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

OFFICERS
0m T. MALLEIIY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Chairman of the Board
PAUL MoORE. JR. . . . . . . . . . . ...............First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....Second Vice-President
SUsAN M. LEE T_hird Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..TrcaSurer
GUSTAvus T. KIRRY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPII l’RENDERCAST ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Secretary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

F. W. ll. ADAMS . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York, N. Y. MRs. CHARLES V. HICKOX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Michigan City, Ind.

F. GREcc BEMIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boston, Mass. MRs. JOHN D. JAMESON . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .. Bellport, N. Y.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Washington, D. C. SUSAN M. LEE . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Ncw York, N. Y.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CI‘MMER .  . . . . . ..Jacksonville, Fla. OTTO T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . ..Philadelphia, Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAvIs . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y. CARI. E. MILLIKEN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . ..Augusta. Me.

HARRY P. DAVISON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. MRS. OCDEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Woodhury, N. Y.

MRs. PAvL GALLAGHER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Omaha. Nebr. PAUL MOORE, JR . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jersey City, N. J.

RODERT GARRETT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Baltimore, Md. JOSEPH PRENDERCAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

RODERT GRANT, 3rd . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oyster Bay, N. Y. MRS. SIGMUND STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. San Francisco, Calif.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Seattle, Wash. GRANT TITSWORTH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton, Conn.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Fitchhurg, Mass. J. C. WALSH.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARDORO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Executive Director’s Office

GEORGE E. DICKIE THOMAS E. RIVERS
ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ ARTHUR WILLIAMS

Correspondence and

Consultation Service

VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN
GERTRUDE BORCHARD LORAINE WILLIAMS

Editorial Department
DOROTHY DONALDSON SONIA RACHLIN

Personnel Service
WILLARD C. SUTHERLAND MARY GUBERNAT DOROTHY FOROANG

M L=RIEL McGANN

MARY QUIRK

Research Department

GEORGE D. BUTLER

Work with Volunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNS
MARGARET DANKWORTH Industrial Recreation . . . . . ..C. E. BREWER

Field Department

CHARLES E. REED

Service to States . . . . . . .ROBERT R. GAMBLE

Areas and F aciiities—Planning and Surveys

ELIZABETH CLIrToN H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. BURRITI‘

Katherine F. Barker Memorial

Secretary for Women and Girls
HELEN M. DAUNCEY

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EHLERS ANNE LIVINGSTON
MILDRED SCANLON FRANK A. STAPLES

JAMES A. MADISON GRACE WALKER

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

New England District

RICHARD S. WESTOATE . . . . . . .Portland, Me.
Middle Atlantic District
JOHN W. FAUST. . . . I . .. .East Orange, N. J.
GEORGE A. NESBITT . . . . .. New York, N. Y.
Great Lakes District
JOHN J. COLLIER . . . . . . . . . . . .Toledo, Ohio
ROBERT L. HORNEY . . . . . . . . .Madison, Wis.

Southern District

MISS MARION PREECE  Alexandria, Va.
RALPH VAN FLEET Clearwater, Fla.
WILLIAM M. HAY . . . . . . . . .Nashville, Tenn.

North Central District

ARTHUR TODD . . . . . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
HAROLD LATHROP . . . . . . . . . . .Denver, Colo.

Southwest District
HAROLD VAN ARSDALE . . . . . . . . .Dallas, Tex.

Pacific Northwest District
WILLARD H. SHUMARD  . .Seattle, Wash.

Pacific Southwest District
LYNN S. RODNEY . . . . ..Los Angeles, Calif.

 

Affiliate Membership

Affiliate membership in the National
Recreation Association is open to all non-
projit private and public organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program and
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in the Opinion of tbe associa-
tion’s Board of Directors, further the ends
of the national recreation movement.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
cooperation in the work of the association
would, in the opinion of the association’s
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

Contributors

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the Splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
Sponsors throughout the country, and the
generous contributions of thousands of
supporters of this movement to bring health,
happiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to join in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-

public and private, to the end that every child in

wide, nonprofit, nonpolitica-l and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation executives, leaders and agencies,

America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and Old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

‘4

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

RECREATION

EDITORIAL

 

Now You Can llllLllllG

N THE April issue of‘RECREATION, I stated my
I intention to resurvey and review all of the serv-
ices of the National Recreation Association to deter-
mine how we might best broaden and improve them.
In the September issue we announced the reorgani-
zation and expansion of the association’s district
held services as of July I, 1950. We have now com-
pleted a reorganization of the headquarters staff as
indicated on the preceding page.

During my spring trips to the various district con-
ferences, many recreation executives and other rec-
reation workers from all sections of the country
brought up the question of individual active associ-
ate membership and of agency affiliate member—
ship in the association. It was thought that a more
formal relationship between individual recreation
workers and local agencies and the association
would be helpful to the national recreation move-
ment as well as mutually helpful to recreation work-
ers, the local agencies and the association.

During July and August, the suggestions that as-
sociate and affiliate memberships be established were
submitted by newsletters to recreation and park ex-
ecutives and chairmen. We received such enthusi—
astic responses to both suggestions that it was
decided that both memberships should become ef-
fective October I, 1950.

The affiliate membership is open to all nonprofit
private and public organizations whose function is
wholly or primarily the provision or promotion of
recreation services or which include recreation as an
important part of their total program, and whose
cooperation in the work of the association would, in
the opinion of the association’s board of directors,
further the ends of the national recreation move-
ment.

The affiliation fee has been set at the nominal
figure of ten dollars because our first consideration
is to make it possible for every recreation agency to
become affiliated for service with the association.
Beyond that, it is our hope that every recreation
agency will give most serious consideration to the
possibility of sharing officially, as so many do at
present and have in the past, in the support of the

OCTOBER 1950

cooperative services made available to them through
the association.

Active associate membership in the National Rec-
reation Association is open to all individuals who
are actively engaged on a full-time or part-time em-
ployed basis or as volunteers in a nonprofit private
or public organization whose function is wholly or
primarily the provision or promotion of recreation
services or which includes recreation as an impor-
tant part of its total program, and whose coopera-
tion in the work of the association would, in the
Opinion of the association’s board of directors,
further the ends of the national recreation move-
ment. All other individuals interested in supporting
the work of the association may become contribut-
ing, but not active, associate members. The active
associate membership fee has been set at five dollars.

The benefits and services to be available to all
affiliate and associate members are substantially
those outlined in my newsletters of July 31 and
August 15, 1950. Descriptive material and oliicial
application blanks for both memberships are being
mailed to all agencies and individuals on our mailing
lists. W e would be very glad to send them to any
other agency or individual on request. Necessary
adjustments will be made in the case of the many
hundreds of good friends who already are contribut-
ing to the financial support of the association so that
they may become afhliate or associate members.

For further information with reference to the pro-
posed memberships, please feel free to write me at
any time. I would also appreciate any comments,
suggestions or criticisms you may care to make with
reference to any of the services of the association. It
is our desire to bring about the closest possible rela-
tionship between everyone working in the field of
recreation and to give you the broadest and best
possible service.

I hope I may soon have the pleasure of welcoming
you all as members of the association.

MW

RECREATION

enamel/Lia

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

“\Ve, the members of this commission, have held

a number of meetings. To benefit from those who

have had years of experience in this type of work,

the members of the commission have subscribed

to RECREATION. . . .\Ve urge all others interested
to subscribe to this excellent magazine.”

’ RECREATION COMMISSION,

Barrington, New Jersey

“At this time, let me tell you that I think the
RECREATION magazine to be the finest magazine
of its kind published in this country. It has stead—
ily become more interesting and valuable to me as
each monthly issue arrives. All of us in this or-
ganization feel the same about it. All departments
borrow my copy of RECREATION.”

HAZEL B. FLYE, '
Health and Recreation

Director, YWCA,
Brochton, Massachusetts

“Your articles in the ‘Playground Issue’ of REC—
REATION magazine were excellent. The entire issue
was so splendid that I have ordered additional
copies so that each playground leader might read
them and be as stimulated as I was.”

EUGENE L. BARNWELL,
Director of Recreation,
Alexandria, Virginia

“As a subscriber to your monthly magazine, I
have received invaluable help in planning a recre-
ation and day camp program for the teen—age girls
of our institution.”

SISTER MARY GOOD COUNSEL,
Mount St. Florence High School,
.‘lfaple Avenue,

Peekskill, N ew Y orle

236

“While doing some research at the university
the other day, I found your late issues of RECREA-
TION. They are so vastly improved over a few
years ago that I’d like to ‘pick up’ my member-
ship with you again.”

WILLIAM F. SMITH, Minister,
First lifethodist Church,
Central Islip, N ew York

“I am the new social director here at Sparrow
Hospital, and find our subscription to your maga-
zine very helpful.” ,
MYRA L. WILLIAMSON,

Lansing, Illichigan

“Permit me to congratulate you on ‘The Job
Outlook’ in the September issue. This article will
answer many questions and thoughts of people now
working on, or interested in securing work in the
field. Such an article from you several times a
year would be highly desirable.”

JOHNSON S. TOWNLEY,
Summer Recreation Director,
Indiana University

“Thank you for so kindly sending me two copies
of the January, 1950 issue of your magazine, REC—
REATION, which included an article by Monsieur
Joussellin. This aroused great interest at the re-
cent meeting in London of the Travel and Ex—
change Commission of WAY.”

CHAIRMAN, Travel and Exchange
Commission,

World Assembly of Youth,

British National C onnnittee,

London, PV. C. I

RECREATION

flow to Write for RECREATIIIN

ROM TIME to time our readers, who also are
F our contributors, write us regarding specifica-
tions for articles to be submitted for possible pub-
lication in RECREATION. We 'are pleased to hear
from subscribers who are realizing that this is their
magazine, their own medium for the exchange of
experience all year round. The following informa-
tion, therefore, is presented to facilitate and stimu-
late the preparation of material for this purpose.

A study of ways of improving the magazine,
conducted through the spring and summer, is re-
sulting in many. plans. A questionnaire will be
coming to you shortly, so that your own sugges-
tions can be considered in making decisions for
the future. These will be announced in the Janu-
ary issue.

Manuscripts

They should be typewritten, with ample margins,
double-spaced, on one side of the paper, and be
first copies—not carbons. They should carry name,
title, address of the author, and be accompanied by
a few lines of biographical material and a self-

. addressed, stamped envelope. Wherever possible,

too, please send a photograph of the author.
Length
Articles usually run between 1,600 and 2,000

words in length ; and we 1ike-——wherever possible—

to have good action photographs to use for illus-
tration. “We also need brief, informative material.
Content

When an article tells the story of a good pro-
gram, we want it also to explain how the program
got that way, to include an account of the prob-
lems involved and how they were solved. In fact,
we ask you to send us the sort of information
which you, yourself, would like to find in the maga-
zine. We want stories of your experience in mak—
ing theories realities, and the results of your ex-

periments ; also, stories presenting the philosOphy

and the challenge of the recreation job.

Subject matter of articles can cover group or
individual recreation for all ages; recreation for
churches, camps, institutions, the handicapped,

OCTOBER 1950

private organizations, rural areas, schools; recreth
tion administration, program, leadership, training,
facilities, equipment; specific interests and skills:
home play. Short materials should include infor-
mation which can be used for the regular feature
pages—such as news, favorite social games, mix-
ers, stunts; letters of opinion for the “Comments
to the Editorial Department” page, helpful hints
for the “Suggestion Box,” and so on.

A Few Examples of Specific Subjects

Rainy day prOgrams for playgrounds.

Playground leadership, techniques, training.

Programs for community nights on playgrounds.

Examples of cooperation with army installation officers
in providing off-post recreation for servicemen nearby.
This might be two-way, not only telling of the welcoming
of servicemen to a community program, but exploring the
possibilities of the army providing volunteer leadership,
or even facilities, for such program.

Hobbies, other individual recreation pursuits.

Athletic and sports programs and new techniques.

Detailed crafts projects, step—by-step instructions. If
we found enough interest and cooperation, we might set
up a crafts exchange, to appear monthly. All those inter-
ested, let us More.

The pros and cons of the giving of awards, and what
kind, if any. '

Recreation department drama programs.

The pros and cons of league play for juniors.

Suggestions for good Thanksgiving. Christmas, Easter,
Fourth of July Observances, and others.

Club organization, leadership, program planning. activi-
ties, problems.

Timing

Timing is most important, especially with sea-
sonal material. Each issue of the magazine is made
up well in advance. Current magazine schedule:

Issue Dcadiinc
January 1951 October 16, 1950
February November 16
March December ll
April (Playground) January 18. 1931
May February 19
June March 17

Photographs

Mark plainly for credit, identification. return- —
if requested. Send action, human interest photi -
graphs—pictures that tell a story.

237

75W @066 SW Know . . .

o RECREATION THERAPIST positions with the Cal-
ifornia Department of Mental Hygiene are being
set up in eighteen institutions throughout that
state. Nationwide examinations for these positions
are being held in October.

0 RECREATION DEPARTMENTS are beginning to

feel the breath of Uncle Sam, and several recrea-
tion executives already have been called for mili-
tary action, while others are in line for such at-
tention. At the Outbreak of the last war, the in-
creasing flow of personnel out of departments re-
sulted in the sudden necessity for replacements.
Many were made with women; older people were
called back into service; high school students pro-
vided leadership on playgrounds; former volun-
teers were trained for paid jobs. New sources of
volunteers were tapped; and the number of volun-
teers multiplied. With this in mind today, it might
be well for all departments to gear their in-service
training to the possibility of such changes once
more, and to include new people who may have to
be utilized. If these people are not needed, their
recreation training will not be wasted—for it can
be used elsewhere.

0 LETTERS RECEIVED by the National Recreation
Association—pledging COOperation, offering en-
thusiastic comments and constructive suggestions
—indicate that feeling is running strong in favor
of the proposed expansion of NRA services, the
realignment of districts in order to put more staff
people in the areas to be served, and the plans for
the future.

0 AFTER TWO YEARS OF STUDY by a membership
committee of the Youth Division and the Educa-
tion-Recreation Council of- the National Social
Welfare Assembly, a recommendation has been
passed for the consolidation of these two groups.
The executive committee of the assembly has ap-
pointed a committee to work out ways and means
Of bringing this about and integrating the new or-
ganization into the over-all assembly structure.

238

This is to be known as the Recreation-Education
Division of the assembly.

0 AN ARTICLE BY JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Exec-
utive Director of the NRA, on “The Areas of Co-
operation Between the National Recreation Asso-
ciation and the American Recreation Society” is
appearing in this month’s issue of the Journal of
the American Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation. An editorial by Mr.
Prendergast also will appear in an early issue of
the American Recreation Society bulletin.

. THE STATE INTERAGENCY Council of Michigan
has just received a grant from the Kellogg Foun-
dation for two years’ salary for a secretary for the
committee. Edwin C. Rice, of Greenwich, Con-
necticut, has been appointed.

0' THE NRA WILL BE REPRESENTED on the steer-
ing committee of the Council on Participation of
National Organizations, President Truman’s Mid—
Century White House Conference on Children
and’Youth, at its meeting on December 3, 1950.
The purpose of the conference is “to consider how
we can deveIOp in children the mental, emotional
and Spiritual qualities essential to individual hap-
piness and reSponsible Citizenship‘.” The NRA
also had been represented on the planning com-
mittee for the recreation section of the Conference
on the Aging, held in the Shoreham Hotel, Wash-
ington, D. C., in August.

0 MR. PRENDERGAST WILL SPEAK at the annual
luncheon of the American Recreation Society at
the Midcentury National Recreation Congress in
Cleveland, Wednesday, October fourth, and also
will speak at the seventh Governor’s Conference
on Recreation in Montpelier, Vermont, on the
twenty-third. In November, he will preside at a
forum in New Jersey, sponsored by the Newark
Evening News, on “Play Space in New Neighbor-
hoods,” and speak at a meeting of the North Caro-
lina and South Carolina state recreation societies.

RECREATION

 

An activity which was popular
with recreation departments before
the days of power motors

now makes another bid

for attention.

 

7,, Some city administrators have recently be-
“?! come aware of a growing and somewhat un-
usual civic problem—“the model menace.” The fly-
ing of gasoline-engined model airplanes in residen-
tial zones has reached alarming proportions from
one end of the country to the other. The invasion
of park areas, athletic fields, schoolyards, and va-
cant lots by “control-line” enthusiasts has been
countered with absolute bans on all model Hying
in many cities, including Atlanta, Evanston’, and
Chattanooga. Other cities will undoubtedly take
the same action. The desirability of prohibiting all
model flying with' n a city is questionable; but the
simplicity and directness of this action, the con-
fusion and hesitancy which have characterized rec-
ommendations of municipal recreation departments

 

Mr. Howard reports that he and his wife "spend more
time than we shoul ” with model aviation and other
hobbies. Now a social worker, Jefferson County De-
partment of Public Welfare, Golden, Colorado, he
previously had been a production test engineer of air-
plane engines, meteorological aide and tax assessor.

OCTOBER 1950

 

Frederic Howard

in this matter, and the rate at which control-line
flying continues to spread, suggest that this “so-
lution” will find wide acceptance.

The present model airplane problem centers on
the control-line type. This gasoline-engined mini-
ature is operated on a pair of wire cables which
confine its Eight pattern to a circle. Its appeal lies
in the minimum of space its flight requires (a cir-
cle of 150 feet diameter is ample), the ease of con-
struction, and the model’s control and durability.
Its popularity is proved by the growing list of com-
plaints from irritated citizenry who argue that the
noise of the engine and the potential hazard to on-
lookers, should the control cables give way, far
outweigh any educational or recreational value of
such model flying. Although the hazard is quite
real—the velocity of these models sometimes ap-
proaches 100 miles per hour—the nuisance factor
is usually the basis for complaint. \V hen the quiet
of a Sunday morning is shattered by the high-
pitched whine of a score or perhaps a hundred of
these miniature machines in simultaneous opera-
tion throughout a city, a civic problem undoubt-

239

edly exists. The severity of the problem is ordi-
narily proportional to the size of the city and the
density of the model pOpulation. In many cities,
this type of model activity has become so prevalent
that some sort of restrictive or regulatory provi-
sion is required.

It can no longer be argued that the relative un-
importance of model airplanes warrants only make—
shift provision in a municipal recreation program.
To give a typical example, it is conservatively esti-
mated by Denver’s department of recreation that
there are some 800 active control-line modelers
within the city. This number compares favorably
—as probably is the case in many other cities—
with the number of active participants in long-
established recreation pursuits. Further, the sport
of model flying is not, as commonly believed, con-
fined to junior citizens; a considerable proportion
of modelers are found in the older age groups, so
it cannot be dismissed as being analogous, say, to
kite flying, and unworthy of serious consideration
in recreation programs. The effect of the last
world war in promoting interest in aviation, the
general increase of consumer purchasing power,
and the recent advances made in model aeronautics
are the basic reasons for the phenomenal increase
in the popularity of model flying. Recreation ad-
ministrators have not kept abreast of this develop—
ment. Indeed, it is rare to find model aviation
considered in municipal recreation programs ex-
cept as a crafts hobby for youth, with provision,
perhaps, for one annual model meet. It is incon—
gruous that, while the recreational value of model
airplane building is accepted completely, the rec-
reational value of model flying is, for the most part,
not seriously considered. The failure of recrea-
tion departments to plan for the sport of model
flying of all types is rather difficult to explain. The
sudden concern with the control—line model is un-
derstandable, since the present critical problem has
forced action. But when a field of recreation, suffi—
ciently popular to support three national maga-
zines devoted exclusively to it, and with an enthu-
siastic following among various age groups, con—
tinues to be largely neglected, an ideal opportu—
nity for community recreation planning is over-
looked.

So far, the. basic failure in municipal recreation
model programs is the complete lack of over—all
planning. As long as model flying is viewed only
as a “problem,” city administrations will continue
to waste time and energy in searching for a “solu—
tion” instead of directing and encouraging the
various phases of model activity. A fact not prop-
erly appreciated is that control-line flying, with

240

the attendant nuisances of noise and potential
danger, is not representative of model aviation. It
happens to be currently pOpular, but it is doubtful
if it will long maintain the dominant position in
model flying that it now occupies. The history of
model aviation indicates that no one model type
long enjoys unrivaled mass popularity.

The sport of model flying and the possibility of
fitting this activity, in all of its phases, into recrea-
tion programs are subjects particularly appropri—
ate at this time. For, if the current trend of out-
lawing model airplane flying continues, recreation
agencies may find that the objectionable features
of one model airplane type will result in local or-
dinances drastically affecting the promotion of any
type of model flying. If model flying is to have
a place in recreation planning, consideration must
be given both to the current problem and to the
requirements and potential problems of other types
of flying models. The following information might
well provide a basis for local programs designed
to include the entire field of model flying.

Present flying models can be divided into three
types: those powered by miniature gasoline en-
gines, by strands of rubber, or by carbon dioxide
engines. The last ten years have seen a rapid in-
crease in the popularity of gasoline—engined mod-
els, and the last three years, a great interest in
control—line flying. The gas engine type is flown in
one of three ways : (I) by control line; 2) by free
flight (uncontrolled except for a timing device
which limits the length of time the engine runs) ;
(3) by radio control (the model’s fiight path is de-
termined from the ground by signals from a mini—
ature radio transmitter). Only the first of these
three ways of flying gasoline-engined models is
feasible within the limits of most cities. Free-
flight gasoline and radio models require consider—
able space, preferably unobstructed, and any city
sponsoring an easily accessible location for this
type of flying could go a long way toward trans—
ferring popular enthusiasm from control—line fly-
ing within a city to free flight on the edge of or
beyond the city. The difficulty of finding a suit—
able area for free flight without trespassing is one
reason model builders turn to control—line flying.
If control—line flying within a city is by necessity
restricted to an inconvenient location, thus tempt—
ing modelers to fly their miniatures near churches
and hospitals or in crowded parks, promotion of
other kinds of model flying is certainly advisable.

The present situation necessitates municipal
control of the indiscriminate fiying of control-line
models. In contrast to the simple solution of ban-
ning the sport, some cities are now providing

RECREATION

municipally-sponsorcd “model arenas”—areas set
aside on the city’s outskirts for the use of control-
line modelers. This approach solves the problem
of noise and, if adequate fencing is erected, it re-
moves a potential hazard to onlookers. Unfortu-
nately, however, a single model arena—even with
space for several models to be flown simultane-
ously—is apt to be an inadequate solution. Mod-
elers usually decide on the control-line type of
- flying for reasons of personal convenience—the
sport requires a minimum of space. If the modeler
must travel a good many miles to reach the city’s
model arena, his use of the nearest vacant lot or
public park will probably continue. A number of
smaller areas, provided in various parts of the
city on a basis somewhat proportional to the dis-
tribution of the model population, is a far more
realistic approach to the problem. Restricting the
use of some of these areas to models equipped with
mufflers would undoubtedly be required. This is,
at present, a very practical request.

Rubber-powered models, in general, include
two types—outdoor and indoor.‘ Their nuisance
factor is low (they are quiet), and it is difficult to
visualize any safety problem in connection with
their flight. Indoor models weigh a fraction of an
ounce, fly at three to four miles an hour— some-
times for as long as fifteen minutes—but, unfortu—
nately, require a large auditorium or field house.
Although the least expensive, they demand the
highest degree of craftsmanship; consequently, in-
terest in this model type is confined chiefly to
adults. The difficulty in obtaining indoor space
in which to fly these models is the main reason
for the present lack of popular interest. (About
twenty years ago, they were extremely popular.)
By making available, at certain times, municipal
auditoriums, field houses or armories, a model pro-
gram could easily revive interest in the indoor en-
durance model.

The outdoor rubber-powered model was pre-
dominant until a few years ago when free-flight
gasoline models came into the foreground. 'These,
in turn, gave way in popularity to the present con-
trol-line type. Models powered by twisted rubber
strands will weigh from two to eight ounces, fly
at speeds. of ‘eight to fifteen miles per hour, and
are noiseless. There is little or no chance of injury
or property damage from their flights, and any
convenient space of 100 yards or more on a side
(cleared areas in parks, municipal golf courses,
vacant lots or stadiums) will accommodate them
to a certain degree. When flown in competition
for maximum endurance, a greater amount of space

is naturally. required. Incidentally, this type has

OCTOBER 1950

long been popular with all age groups. Any mu-
nicipal model airplane program providing or ap-
proving space for outdoor rubber-powered flying
could expect an increase of interest in this type.

Models powered by carbon dioxide cylinders are
currently on the increase, but the factor of expense
alone (ten cents for a single flight) makes it un-
likely that they will attain any mass popularity.
This type, although relatively quiet and compa-
rable in size, weight and velocity to the usual rub-
ber-powered model, features a rate of propeller
revolution (about 3,500 per minute) that might
be regarded as a hazard. If carbon dioxide powered
models are to be flown in park areas or similar
places, undoubtedly some restrictions will be re-
quired in the interests of safety.

There are perhaps two chief considerations that
enter any proposed recreation program: the ex-
pense involved and the organization required.
Neither of these is significant in model airplane
pr0grams. What is important is planning the use
of space, indoor and out, already available, pro-
viding a certain amount of fencing for control-line
model arenas, and publicizing—through the school
system, the local press and radio and model sup-
pliers—the municipal facilities available or espe-
cially provided for the various flying types. This
would not constitute an expensive program—par-
ticularly in comparison with some of the older,
usually seasonal, recreation programs. The com-
munity organization required would hardly be ex-
tensive and, with respect to the organization of
individual modelers, informal spontaneous groups
moriginating from interest in some particular
model type or growing from a neighborhood as-
sociation—could form a natural basis for group
participation.

A well-planned model program can reduce the
somewhat exaggerated emphasis now placed on
control-line flying by promoting interest in the
other kinds of flying models.

 

Recently, Long Beach, California, questioned 34
California cities about their experiences with gas-
propelled model airplanes, boats and autos. Asked
if their recreation departments sponsor gas model
airplanes, 6 cities said yes; 18, no. Thirteen cities
reported noise complaints; 6 had no such difficul-
ties. To the question: “If properly developed areas
and facilities are provided. do you consider these as
good activities for a public recreation department
to: encourage—I7 yes, I no; assist by helping in-
dependent clubs—Ig yes, I no; sponsor or con-
duct—7 yes, 8 no.

241

One recreation worker gives others “a piece of his mind” . . .

 

HE ABOVE TITLE might be “The Lost Art of
Community Singing”—or perhaps it is not
gone completely, but merely sidetracked. We are
so concerned about training the intellect these days
that we neglect almost altogether the cultivation
of the emotions and the development of attitudes.
We are surrounded constantly by a barrage of
words, spoken and written; and very little time is
given to satisfying our innate hunger for the things
of the senses and of the spirit—for beauty in line,
color, sound and rhythm. . '

Take music. Most of the so-called music clubs
that I know seldom listen to music and practically
never make it. What do they do? They write
papers and talk about it.

It doesn’t seem, in any case, that our barrage
of words and our emphasis upon the mind have
brought us any glowing success in terms of social
harmony, world peace or general well—being.

The cynical tone of these remarks is partly the
result of a feeling of personal frustration. I am,
perhaps, overl'y critical because I happened to get

Art Todd is well-known in the recreation held for
his outstanding work as north central district repre-
sentative of the National Recreation Association.

242

Community Singing

Arthur Todd

into recreation work by way of music teaching
and community music organization. Naively, I
hadiexpected that in the recreation field I would
be able to do something to encourage and further
the making of music. Instead, as a busy field rep-
resentative for the National Recreation Associa-
tion, I have found it necessary to spend most of
my time on such matters as budgets, facilities, per-
sonnel, referendum campaigns and the like. Of
course, this machinery is essential if music and
other arts and activities are to flourish.

What constantly baffles me is that an activity
as universally enjoyed and as simple to develop
as music is so generally ignored. Actually, it is
just as important in the recreation program as
baseball or woodcraft or table tennis."

Community singing is adaptable to all kinds
and sizes of groups and to all occasions. It cuts
across the lines of age, race, economic groups and
physical capacities. It is less expensive than most
activities. It is good summer or winter, indoors
or outdoors. It has the power to weld a group to-
gether, to turn a crowd into a community, into a
“rhythmic human companionship” as Carlyle has

said.
Time and again it has been proved that people

RECREATION

like to make their own music, that they will take
advantage of opportunities to sing together. Yet,
it seems that recreation people generally overlook
the possibilities or, if they do anything, it is more
an afterthought—something to fill in while the
waiters are removing the dishes. In time of war
and at Christmas time, singing is revived. Actu-
ally, it is just as good and as important in time of
peace and at Thanksgiving, Decoration Day and,
for that matter, at all seasons of the year and every
day.

The purpose of community singing is to get peo-
ple to sing together and to sing with enjoyment—
not halfheartedly and self-consciously, but freely,
in a way that gives real self-expression and release.
Therefore, whatever~is done should be done to
the end of helping people to have a good time
while making music; or, in other words, the condi-
tions, the environment and atmosphere provided
should bring about a desire to sing and make the
singing fun.

It is’ natural to think first about the song leader;
he is important. I prefer, however, to go on to
some other matters which most recreation leaders
can do more about, and which are essential in
community singing.

First, the accompanist. For all but big, outdoor
sings, the piano is the best instrument. It is just
as important that the piano be in tune and in good
playing condition for a community sing as it is to
have the ball diamond clean and smooth for base-
ball; but the thing that really matters, is the pia-
nist—one who plays with good rhythm, and can
play the songs in singable keys. I am inclined to
think that the accompanist is more important than
the leader. Any of you can lead the singing if you
have a good accompanist. All you need to do is
to announce the song and show the singers when
to start.

You could render a service to your‘community
by arranging for accompanists’ clinics or training
courses. Get the best community singing accom—
panist in the town or locality to take charge. Get
all the piano players you can to attend. While
speaking of training, let me suggest, too, a song
leaders’ workshop or training school. Put your
best leader in charge. Invite all organizations and
groups to send someone. It will go far toward ex-
tending and improving the informal singing in
your community.

Arrangements for a Sing

Piano in front.

Words, slides or song sheets.
Crowd, compact and comfortable.

OCTOBER 1950

 

Group singing, out-of-doors, is emphasized by the
recreation department in Greensboro, North Carolina.

If outdoors, controls and policing are necessary.

An introduction of the leader.

Sufficient time for singing.

Leader and accompanist should get together in
advance to decide upon keys, tempos, introduc-
tions and other arrangements.

There is a great wealth of good, singable songs.
Why repeat a few old stand-bys over and over?
New songs can be introduced gradually and added
to the repertoire. The feeling of accomplishment
and growth is as essential to give satisfaction in
community singing as in sports or crafts.

-What Sandberg calls “darn fool songs" have
their place, but “Old McDonald” and "John
Brown’s Body” can be overdone. There are Ne-
gro spirituals, songs of romance, songs of occu-
pations, regional songs, songs from other lands
which reveal more than anything else the Spirit
and character of the pe0ple, old songs and new
songs. _

Let us sing together more. As recreation peo-
ple, let us provide opportunities for people to sing
together. In singing, we feel a keen enthusiasm
for eXpression itself, generous and self—forgetful,
not self-centered and acquisitive. Surely this sing-
ing must strengthen whatever tendency the indi-
vidual may have to prize human and social values

above selfish ones.

The Music Educator and the Community

Various people have asked me about the duties
of the music educator in school—community rela

243

trons. 1 see his place in the community shaping up
as follows:

0 .\s an advisor on community music to help on
planning committees for community sings, festivals,
music week, the organization of community music
groups——some’ of which may be sponsored by the
recreation department; guidance in the music
work of the recreation department so that it may
be correlated with the school music program, so
that similar values may be emphasized.

In some cases, the initiative for this collabora-
tion may have to come from the music educator.
He may have to seek out and cultivate the recre-
ation director because, unfortunately, not all rec-
reation leaders have the proper appreciation of
music in a program. More often, the recreation
director hesitates to go to the music education de-
partment because he is not too comfortable in this
field; he doesn’t know how to start. A community-
minded music educator will find ways of using the
machinery that has been created in a recreation
department to further his objectives in music.

0 As a participant or leader in community music
programs. Music teachers are very busy, but some
are able to direct community groups, choruses,
orchestras, bands, and so on. In fact, some school
boards, recognizing the importance of this work,
reduce the teacher’s schedule at school in order
that he may give more of this kind of leadership.

0 As an interpreter of the values of community
music to students—preparing them for participa-
tion after they leave school. This takes more than
just the ability to play or sing, of course. Some
participation in groups outside of school will help.
Emphasis upon music as a hobby, or the recrea-
tional value of music through life, is necessary.
Definite activities in school music that will have
carry-over value are important.

0 As an interpreter of the values of community
music‘towthe public—through talking to groups,
pointing up good music programs in their town
or other towns, encouraging music clubs to make
and listen to music rather than just talk about it,
using music where people are gathered together.
A particular need inmost towns is for the train-
ing of song leaders and accompanists. Recrea-
tion and music people can work out plans together.

Frequent exchanges of ideas between music ed-
uéators and recreation leaders will be mutually
beneficial. For example, the music teacher should
know some of the objectives of-recreation, so that
he can apply them to his work in the'community

244

and even in school. The recreation ,program is for
all, particularly the “dubs”. The varsity idea too
often dominates school music. The recreation pro-
gram is geared to the varying levels of interest,
skill, and capacity. Its purpose is fun, release and
self-expression as well as skill. Famin activities,
things' that can be done indoors and outdoors the
year-round, that are adaptable to all kinds of con-
ditions and situations, are important in the recre-
ation program. This is not discounting the place
of big events, especially community-wide programs
and projects.

People are making or listening to music every
day, whether or not they have come under the
tutelage of the music educator. If the music edu-
cator wants to influence tastes and habits of the
people in their music, he will find ways of meet-
ing them where they are and- starting from there.

If he has rather broad interests himself—has
hobbies, likes sports, takes an active interest in
general community affairs, is not thought of too
much as a specialist, particularly as an ivory tower
specialist—his infiuence will be stronger with his
students and townspeople.

 

Washington’s First Hobby
Show for Elderly People

November of this year will be a big and satisfy-
ing time for the oldster craftsmen and craftswomen
of Washington, D. C. Sometime during the month,
the First Annual Hobby Show for Older Persons,
patterned after the oldster hobby exhibits held in
New York, Cleveland, Philadelphia and other cities,
will make its debut in Washington. The depart-
ment of recreation of that city, in cooperation with
the United Community Services, has appointed a
planning committee composed of interested com-
munity leaders to work out the details, including
the date and place, for this long-needed event.

Any persoi’l sixty years of age or over who has
developed any sort of skill or interest through the
year's. is‘invited to participate in this hobby show
and to share his work with others. 'Because Wash-
ington has such a large quota of persons retired
from work and family responsibility, the recreation
department feels that the show can emphasize to
them the creative potentialities .of this period of
their lives.  ,

Other agencies and organizations assisting in‘
this project are: the D. C. Federation of Clubs,
Federal Security Agency, Federation of “Churches,
D. C. Public Library, Board of Public Welfare;
Interdepartmental Conference on Counseling.

" RECREATION

66 N ANY CITY, town, township, borough, village

I or other municipality of the State, the Mayor,
Chairman, President or other chie]c executive 0ft-
cer of such municipality may, in his discretion, ap-
point not less than three nor more than five fit and
suitable persons, citizens and residents of such
municipality, as Commissioners of Recreation.”
(New Jersey Laws of 1912, Chapter 267)

In carrying out the above law, the Board of
Recreation Commissioners in the city of Plainheld
has gone a step beyond it and has set up a local
version wherein the board and recreation staff
work together as a team. The board members are
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the
council for a term of five years. Promptly upon
taking office, each member is given a notebook
with his name and address on it. This is large
enough to hold letter-sized paper. The book re-
mains in the possession of each commissioner and
sees much service before his term expires. Mem-
bers are required to bring notebooks to all meet-
ings, and to keep them close at hand for ready
reference. Each contains plans for the future, and
is indexed to include the following classifications
of material:

Administration—This section includes a sight
map of the city showing all facilities, both public
and private, used by the department in its pro-
gram; a c0py of the “State Enabling Act, Laws
of New Jersey”; a functional chart showing the
board staff and the tie-in for the community-wide
services; the “Recreation Manual” prepared by the
superintendent, describing the normal functions of
recreation, its personnel, with a copy of the bylaws
under which the board operates.

Planning—nThis contains plans worked up and

 

Author is superintendent of recreation, Plainfield.

OCTOBER 1950

l{. O. Schlenler

I Working Board Members

ready for submission to the common council, to-
gether with portions of a tax title map showing
exact locations, assessment of property, owners’
names and addresses and, if possible, the purchase
price and estimated cost of the total project. Plans

for any renovations to facilities fall under this
index.

Playgrounds—Under this classification, every-
thing pertaining to playground operation is cata-
logued—such as number of playgrounds, hours of
operation, subject matter for institutes, rules and
regulations governing playgrounds and personnel,
plus the entire program on a daily and seasonal
basis.

Activities—As constituted, the program of activ-
ities, as carried on successfully, is retained and, as
time and personnel permit, new ones are added at
the recommendation of the staff at a regular meet-
ing. The program in progress is set up on a
weekly schedule and mimeographed. Each member
is given a copy. This is done twice yearly for fall
and winter, and spring and summer.

Minutes—All minutes of regular and special meet-
ings are mimeographed the day following meet-
ings. Each member is mailed individual copies to
be placed in his notebook. Also, two members of
the common council, assigned as liaison to the com-
mission, each receive a copy. Copies of the super-
intendent’s monthly report of activities conducted
is also sent to the mayor and to all the members of
the common council. This report is a true ac-
count of activities in progress or completed, tell-
ing the story of the city-wide program and high-
lights of the past month’s activities. No attempts
are made to cover any unsuccessful activities so
that a true report will be presented to the board for

its consideration.

24S

Financev—The financial chapter of the notebook
consists of the entire budget, both proposed and
revised. A monthly account of items, under their
prOper classification, is rendered and falls under
four headings : budget item appropriations, monthly
expenditures, accumulative and balance. This
method affords members a sight—glance at each
appropriation. Budget items consist of regular
salaries, irregular salaries (playground and center
workers, and so on), office expenses, motor equip-
ment, playgrounds, playground equipment, field
operations and miscellaneous expenses. Subtotals
follow with salaries and other expenses.

The second page of the monthly financial report
indicates all vouchers itemized and placed under
their proper budget classification numbers. The
Trust and Dedicated Funds make up the third
page of the financial report. Dedicated funds are
all moneys collected by the commission through
any activity sponsored by it. All disbursements of
dedicated funds are made by the city treasurer on
sworn bills approved by the commission. These
funds are deposited with the city treasurer.

Trust funds are moneys paid into the recrea~
tion commission by an organized group of individ-
uals to carry'on a particular activity. All disburse—
ments of trust funds are made by the treasurer of
the commission on detailed vouchers in accord—
ance with established rules, or by written authority
of the group sponsoring the activity. Thus, entry
fees for baseball, basketball, softball, golf leagues
and art festival moneys would be placed under
trust funds, while teen—age centers, movies, square
dances, receipts from basketball games or other
athletic activities—~——where a charge is made———would
be placed under dedicated funds.

Personnel—Consists of a detailed salary report
recommended by the commission to the common
council after surveys are made of other commu~
nities, application blanks, and the determining of
salaries and wages for those employed, other than
the year—round staff.

General—Material under this heading includes
reports, rumors heard about the city regarding
recreation in general, visits made to other cities,
personal notes on material for speeches, newspa—
per or magazine article clippings, gripes of citi—
zens, reports of visits to local facilities, and other
matters concerning recreation that would be of
interest to the board and staff.

The Plainfield board and staff act as a team.
New projects are worked out by the superintend-
‘ ent and staff—the staff working on details, and the

246

board evaluating and submitting them to the
common council. Any situation arising between
meetings is discussed by the superintendent and
president. If immediate action is necessary, either
a special meeting is called or the subject is sub—
mitted to the prOper committee chairman.

Committees—There are three committees—plan—
ning, personnel and activities. All other matters
are acted upon as a whole by all members. We
find that this policy keeps the members informed
of all phases of recreation from the state level to
the local rules and regulations of our various
leagues. It gives them a better understanding of
the problems and makes for an alert member. We
find that the notebooks aid our members greatly
and create a greater interest not only for old ac-
tivities, but also for new ones suggested. By the
adoption of bylaws and the appointing of the three
committees, the board is well-aware of its respon-
sibilities. The bylaws call for a change of officers
each year. '

Interest does not flag at our meetings. We have
proof positive that board members will listen to
and discuss various phases of the program into the
late hours of the night. We are convinced that an
infomzed irzeitzber is a good member.

 

Wear the Red Feather!

October is traditionally RED FEATHER month.
Again, this year, more than 15,000 vital commu-
nity agencies serving young and old will put their
faith in the cooperative way—your 'way——of rais-
ing funds for local health, welfare and recreation
services. As usual, each community will set its own
Red Feather goal, budget its own funds and decide
on a program of action.

One suggestion for your 1950 local Red Feather
campaign-“from Community Chests and Councils
of America—is that of tying—in with local sports
events for publicity purposes.

Form a committee composed of your newspaper
sports editors, radio sportscasters, school officials
and others likely- to participate. This committee
should take advantage of the regularly-scheduled
sports events in the community prior to, and dur-
ing, the campaign ; in addition it should be respon-
sible for the planning and promoting of special
sports events wherein the Chest and Red Feather
services can be publicized. Check off late summer
and fall sports events to see where this tie—in can
be made.

RECREATION

Frank W. Harris

Bicycling and Hostelng

as a Program Activity

 

3‘1, Few people have realized the full poten-
tialities of bicycling and hosteling as a
program activity. Many approach biking solely
from the viewpoint of physical exercise, a health
activity, good for the body. This, undoubtedly, is
true, but we have long since moved beyond this
point in our utilization of activities. The activity
is no longer an end in itself, but a contributing
factor to the development of each individual tak—
ing part. It must contribute to his physical, mental
and emotional growth. The mere acquisition of a
skill becomes incidental to the possibilities of social
relationships, adjustments, maturing and broaden-
ing that are part and parcel of program activities
conducted under trained and understanding leader-
ship.

What does a bicycling and hosteling pr0gram
offer? Let me cite two examples. Prior to \Vorld
War 11, working with a small group of teen-age
boys at Christadora House, a settlement on the
lower east side of New York, we interested the
group in hosteling. This club invited another small
group of boys from the house to take part, bring-
ing the total membership to Fifteen. Together,
they went on several experimental week-end trips
during the spring and summer. As the leader of

 

Mr. Harrir’ rerignation a; director of Five Towm
Youth Recreation Committion it effective on Sep-
tember 30, 1950. He anamex t/ae poritiorz of execu-
tive director of the Metropolitan New York Council
of American Youth Hortelr on the jirtt of October.

OCTOBER 1950

this group, I was able to watch the members
change from a grumbling, work-evading, lazy, and
anti—hostel-rules group of boys into a cooperative
club, imbued with an enthusiasm for this new and
economical activity that had opened for them hith-
erto nonexistent horizons.

\Vithin a few months, they had expanded to in-
clude over I 10 boys and girls, ranging in age from
thirteen to twenty-five. During the follmving year-
and-a-half, this hosteling group made over thirty-
six week-end trips; numerous one-week jaunts on
their own, and had participated in live work proj-
ects varying in length from three days to three
weeks. They earned an enviable reputation at
hostels—particularly at the Rocky Point hostel on
Long Island, where one of their work projects, a
stone fireplace, received considerable publicity in
a local paper.

The boys brought back a great,deal to enrich
the lives of others at the settlement house. En-
countering square and folk dancing for the first
time at a hostel, they sat about learning more of
it and soon had a weekly folk dance group. open
to all, operating at the settlement. They published
a monthly hostel news, held weekly planning meet-
ings—where they learned much about leadership
and democracy—and conducted a bimonthly camp-
fire program for younger members in the Scout
room of the house.

The important point to note here is not just
the actual broadening of the group's participation
in entirely new activities; what must be given

3-17

The group participated in en-
tirely new activities, devel-
oping a sense of self-confi-

0 ' -
deuce, security, achievement.

equal stress is the individual growth of many of
the club members. They developed a sense of con-
fidence, security, achievement, and an increased
ability to form social relationships not only with
their contemporaries, but also with adults. Through
constant contacts on trips with new groups and
different people, their poise and maturity were en-
hanced; they developed an understanding and ap-
preciation of similarities and differences. Lastly,
their social consciousness was aroused to the ex—
tent of creating a burning desire in many to make
this opportunity available to all young people on

the East Side.
The new activities to which they were introduced

included hiking, biking, swimming, camping, cook—
ing, construction, singing, folk and square danc-
ing, - journalism, menu planning, budgeting and
group leadership.

In my second example, starting with the same
premise——namely, that a hiking and hosteling pro-‘
gram offers abundant opportunity for individual
and group development if the individuals in a
group are ready for and are interested in trying
such a program—it was somewhat of a surprise
to discover the completely new and different direc-
tion which this group took. One year ago, we
formed a biking group in the Five Towns, Long
Island. This group was interestedin one-day bike
trips. Since one of the purposes of the Five Towns
Youth Recreation Commission is to sponsor com-
munity-wide activities, bringing together young
people of all backgrounds, it was hoped that the
biking group, would interest a mixed group ra-
cially, religiously and economically. In the spring
of 1949, about sixteen yOung people, twelve to
sixteen years of age, took part in these one-day

248

 

trips planned for Saturdays and school holidays.
Most of these trips averaged thirty miles. The
group grew slowly, making trips in the summer
and fall until cold weather called a halt. At about
this time, the recreation commission received a
donation of a bicycle trailer, making it possible to
transport the group and the bicycles farther out
on the island, avoiding much of the suburban
traffic usually encountered. By winter, there were
twenty very active members with a total of thirty-
six participating. ’

Then things began to happen. When it was
suggested that the group disband temporarily for
the winter, members took the reins in their own
hands and constituted themselves as the Five
Towns Biking Club, elected officers, and planned
a program of skating parties. In addition, mem-
bers spent a number of afternoons repairing and
putting into shape old bicycles contributed by resi-
dents of the community; so that by spring, there
were four bikes available for loan to children who
didn’t have one of their own. It is important to
note that this group, contrary to the group in the
first illustration, did not know each other prior to
coming together. Group feeling and ties of friend-
ship deve10ped through this common interest and
crossed lines of religious, racial and economic dif-
ferences.

Another important deve10pment came about
through our concern for the carelessness of motor-
ists. It became obvious, on the many trips, that
motorists were largely ignorant of the rights of
the biker. They learned, too, that most children
consistently violate the rules of sound bicycling.
The group itself had developed a terrific sense of
pride in obeying traffic regulations, in riding single

RECREATION

file, not stunting, and so forth. Out of this con-
cern, and in cooperation with aroused PTA’s in
the communities’ two school districts, as well as
the systems themselves, a bicycle safety campaign
was planned.

Utilizing material furnished by the Bicycle In-
stitute of America and the AAA, the following
program was launched last spring:

I. PUBLICITY—-—a full scale publicity campaign, in-
cluding proclamation of Bicycle Safety Week by
village mayors, a radio sketch delivered over the
local station with biking club members taking roles,
poster displays in schools and local shops, and a
number of articles in local newspapers.

2. SPEAKERS BUREAU—the formation of a speak-
ers bureau composed of the young members of the
club who spoke to adult organizations. such as the
PTA's. Kiwanis, and so on, about “The Responsi-
bility of the Motorist” as they saw it.

3. BICYCLE INSTRUCTION PROGRAM—an instruc-
tion program for elementary school children mak-
ing use of written as well as active biking tests.
The tests put the children through their paces on
specially marked-out areas, and included a pre-
liminary inspection of the bicycle before a child
could qualify to take the biking tests. In the con-
duct of these tests, the recreation commission had
the assistance of field work students from nearby
colleges, and many high school age members of the
biking club aided as assistant instructors. The chil-
dren who passed the tests were awarded member-
ship cards in the Bicycle Safety League of America

and colorful decals attesting to this fact. These
were furnished by the Bicycle Institute of America.
In addition, the three highest scorers in each of the
school districts received a special award. donated
by local merchants.

Over 200 children enrolled in this instruction
program, and eighty passed all three phases of the
test. In addition to making the children more
conscious of bicycle safety and providing them
with a motivation for observing bicycle rules, a
large number became interested in the day trip
programs of our commission, so that plans are
under way to form a junior group of nine-to-
twelve-year-olds.

Although this second group developed along dif-
ferent lines from the first, in both, members have
engaged in a healthy outdoor activity, formed new
social relationships and friendships, broadened their
outlook through new experiences, have been given
an opportunity to assume responsibilities and lead-
ership, and have functioned in a setting in which
all members could find security and a sense of
achievement.

As a final note for a leader planning such a pro-
gram, I would emphasize the importance of being
flexible, ready to accept suggestions, of allowing
group need and interest to determine the direction
of the program rather than entering it with pre-
conceived and fixed notions. Particularly, the
leader should be prepared to help the group accept
individual and group responsibility to the limit of
the members’ interests and capabilities.

 

Bicycle Institute of America

'{E PROBLEM of assuring greater maximum
Tsafety for the nation’s more than eighteen mil-
lion bicycle riders is one of the main challenges
being met by the Bicycle Institute of America.
Leading a sustained national safety drive for many
years, this organization distributes millions of book-
lets and posters with safety rules for bicyclists, and
other literature that can be used for disseminating
safety information to the public in a manner that
will obtain real results. All of its material is care-
fully prepared—with emphasis on appearance and
readability as well as on rules and regulations.
facts and suggestions. The Institute's publications
cover a wide variety of bicycling problems, such as:
“Bicycle Ordinance, Registration and Licensing”;
“Be Sure Your Bike is Ready to Go”; “Bike
Safety Aids”; “The A-B-C of Safe Bicycle Rid-
ing”; “Bicycle Safety Tests”; “Bicycling Facilities

OCTOBER 1950

(for different locations)”; and “Hints on Safety
for Young Riders."

In addition, its special “Bicycle Safety Kit" is
crammed full of ideas for press releases. radio
scripts, safety stories, newspaper mats, Speeches
and other helpful material.

Not long ago, the Bicycle Institute of America
engaged a group of expert cyclists to assist the
producers of “Bicycling Safely Today" in creating
a film that would help those individuals and groups
concerned with increasing safe riding practices in
their communities. This film is ready for immedi-
ate distribution. Two other tilms —-—“On Two
\Vheels,” and “Bicycling with Complete Safety"—
produced many years ago. are 'also available.

For further information, write to the Bicycle
Institute of America, 122 East Forty-second Street,
New York 17, New York.

24,0

E. P. Romilly

In-Service Training for Park Employees

Good suggestions which are equally
applicable to in-service training for
recreation workers.

IN-SERVICE TRAINING SCHOOLS have been in opera—
tion in many of the large park organizations for
years. The National Park Service and the United
States Forest Service have conducted schools for
the personnel of their various divisions or depart—
ments for some time. The Chicago Park District
has interesting, invaluable schools for landscape
gardeners. horticulturists, recreation personnel,
police and others. The Milwaukee County Park
System has inaugurated in—service schools for its
employees, planned and conducted by the em-
ployees. which have paid in efficiency and effec-
tiveness of operation. Our l\-‘lidwest Institute of
Park Executives has, for many years, conducted a
winter school open to all park employees in the
Chicago region. In-service training schools long
have been a part of the winter program of the
Forest Preserve District of Cook County, and have
been most effective. Some are devoted to policies
and methods for employees; some are specialized
sessions attended by rangers, foresters or care-
takers—and all have convinced us that they fill a

 

Mr. Romillj‘ is superintendent of maintenance for
the Forest Preserve District, River Forest, Illinois.

250

G

vital need in our operations. Aside from the pro-
fessional or specialized instruction given, there is a
welding of the personnel, an uncovering of un-
suspected talents and weaknesses, a solving of per-
plexing problems, and a notable gain in efficiency
and esprit de corps.

F

I. IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR ALL EMPLOYEES

In-service training for all employees is necessary
in order to achieve an effective relationship be—
tween administration and the employee, between
employee and the public he serves, and among em-
ployees themselves. Mere rules and regulations
governing contacts and operations are not enough.
Employees function best when they are made to
feel that they are an active part of any program or
project, when they understand the basic reasons
for and objectives of such program or projects,
and when they have a sense of positive direction.

In-service training programs for employees in
the lower brackets—those who must meet and
handle the public—may simply cover fundamen-
tals and be devoted more to techniques. Such train-
ing may be accomplished by supervisors during the
normal course of operations; but supervisors often
fail to realize their obligation—either through
neglect or because of their own lack of training——
to undertake specific training of the men under
them. Therefore, it becomes necessary to organize
and carry out a formal program for both supervisor
and employee. Supervisors and those they super-
vise should not, as a rule, be required to sit in the
same class.

A paper originally presented at an annual Great Lakes Park Train-
ing Institute.

RECREATION

II. A WIDE VARIETY OF SUBJECTS

1. Administrative and Personnel Setup

Each employee should have a knowledge of the
relationship of his job to the other members of his
department and to his fellow employees in the en-
tire organization. He should know the internal
relationship between all departments and divisions
and how, through mutual aid and assistance, work-

ing together, they can achieve effective and efficient
organization.

2. Policies, Regulations and Ordinances

Every employee should have a basic knowledge
of these things; be imbued with the feeling that
he is not just working for some supervisor, but

has an active part in the life and growth of_ the
park system.

3. Historical, Geographical and Geological
Knowledge of the District

Such knowledge often stimulates in the employee
a deeper interest in his job, as well as helping him
to be well-informed- in his contacts with the visit-
ing public.

4. Public Relations

These two words cover a tremendously large
field in park and municipal work, and are subject
to many and varied definitions. Public relations in
public service consists of the contacts, attitudes.
impressions and opinions that establish the rela—
tionship between the department or district, its
employees and the public. It is at once a most im-
portant phase of administration and usually the
most neglected.

Every servant of the public, whose duties require
him to deal personally with people, is engaged in
public relations work. It is the impression which
these public employees leave that raises or lowers
the esteem in which the park district is held in the
minds of its visitors. Good public relations is the
one activity which costs nothing and yet pays the
biggest dividends in good will.

Training sessions in public relations should give
detailed attention to the following:

a. I mportont elements in Contact with the public—The
interest shown by the employee, the quantity and quality
of the information he dispenses, the courtesy he displays
and the tone of voice and manner of speech he employs.

b. A ppearanccuThis should receive considerable atten-

tion and include not only personal cleanliness, grooming,
deportment, bearing and general habits, but also the con-

dition of the grounds, Ibuildings or facilities under the

employee’s direct care, or his operation, use and care of
equipment to which he has been assigned.

c. C omploints~By all means, there should be a session

on complaint procedure, which should include methods of
receiving, answering and handling, as well as an analysm

OCTOBER 1950

of the cause of, complaints and ways and means of re-
ducing them.

d. Use of telephone—Sooner or later, all employees
have direct public contact by telephone. Such contacts
should be pleasant, friendly, cordial. cheerful and helpful.
An alert, interested and pleasant voiCe conveys a good
impression and builds good will.

e. Human relations—Another very important phase of
public relations deals with relationship to minority groups.
This problem has been given very careful consideration
both by the Chicago Park District and the Forest Pre-
serve District of Cook County. The Chicago Park Dis-
trict has not only developed a program of training for
personnel, but has also prepared and printed a manual
entitled "The Police and Minority Groups." The preface
of this manual says, in part: “The problem of the rela-
tions between various racial and nationality groups is one

of major urgency throughout the world. The problem is
especially critical in democratic countries. In a democracy
like our own, the public agencies must be constantly alert
to their. responsibility in maintaining equal services for
all groups at all times. . . .”

These statements are equally true for the 37,500 acres
that make up the Forest Preserve District. with its swim—
ming pools, golf courses, trails, picnic areas, day camps
and other facilities all administered and operated on a
basis of absolute equality, with no distinction as to race,
creed or color.

For the past three years, the Forest Preserve
District has operated in-service training schools
for its rangers, in which the subject of minority
groups has received serious and practical consider-
ation. Not only have our men received training
from qualified police authorities and leaders of
minority groups, they have also been instructed in
how to anticipate and prevent misunderstandings
or troubles that might arise from mixed groups.

5. xlforale

The morale of an employee directly affects the
quality of all public contacts and services. At least
one training session should be devoted to a discus-
sion of all the factors which contribute to bad
morale. This meeting could be called a “gripe”
session, with employees encouraged to Speak
frankly and freely. All matters pertaining to policy,
regulations, wages, working hours and so forth,
should be referred to administrative heads. The
ordinary “gripes” pertaining to job operations,
misunderstandings, likes and dislikes should be
carefully and intelligently handled by the super-
vising instructor.

6. Flora and Fauna of the Perl: District

Every employee should have a broad basic knowl-
edge of the plant life, wildlife, birds, fish, mam-
mals, reptiles and insects which are a part of the
district. Not only will such knowledge stimulate a
deeper interest in his job, but it will enable him to
answer intelligently the numerous questions of the
visiting public. To them he is Mr. Park District.

251

7. Care of Facilities, Tools and Equipment

One or more sessions might well be devoted to
the proper care and protection of all buildings,
swimming pools and other structures, golf courses,
ball diamonds, recreational and picnic areas. Main-
tenance is a number one problem for all of us.
Many facilities need yearly maintenance and re-
pair; others require special preparation for sea—
sonal use; others need controlled Operations and
care during extensive public use; all require prop-
er closing and housing at the end of a season. In
order that all needs may be carefully and efficiently
carried out, detailed plans, methods of procedure
and operation should be outlined and discussed.
A system of reports and records might be formu-
lated to insure periodic inspection and attention.

A short session on the care and use of hand
tools should be included in the training program;
also, on the operation, care and maintenance of
various park equipment. All employees who are
required to operate equipment should possess suf-
ficient understanding of its design, operation and
limitations in order to be able to tell when it is
being used or abused.

8. Construction and .Maintenance Policies

The employee should be given a knowledge of
the park district policy as to design, construction
and maintenance. Untrained men are prone to
create and build things without definite thought or
plan and without due respect for location or estab—
lished policy.

Under such sessions, the following topics are

suggested for instruction:
a. How to read a blueprint.
b. Simple carpentry practices.
c. Brick and stone masonry.
d. Lumber, timbers, plywoods, and so on.
e. Paints, selection and use———0ther wood preservatives.

f. Roads and parking spaces, construction and materials.
g. Good housekeeping and cleanup.

9. Safety, Health and Accident Prevention

Every district should have a well-developed
training program in safety, health and accident
prevention. This should encourage as many em-

ployees as possible to study first aid under quali—
lied instructors. Proper training should be given

in the prevention of the following types of acci-
dents:

a. Accidents which could be prevented by good house-
keeping on the job, both in the field and shop.
b. Accidents caused 'by failure to correct unsafe care—

less practices and procedures, generally accepted as
hazardous.

c. Accidents which result from a failure to correct
mechanical or material defects or to see that equip-
ment and tools are in shape for safe use.

d. Accidents which could 'be prevented by the use of

252

safety appliances, such as goggles, masks, belts or
lines, and so forth.

e. Accidents caused by a lack of direct and constant
supervision.

f. Accidents which result from careless or reckless
driving and disregard of traffic signs and regulations.

All employees should be instructed in the prop-
er reporting of all accidents and the need for first
aid even for a small cut or scratch. They should
be instructed in the simple rules of health, such as
eating the right food, getting enOugh sleep, care of
colds, and so on. As employees grow older, they
should be instructed to report the development of
such physical conditions as a bad heart, hernia,
high blood pressure, all of which affect an em~
ployee’s health and his ability to perform heavy or
strenuous work.

III. ALL EMPLOYEES SHOULD PARTICIPATE IN A
COMPLETE PROGRAM

All employees should be brought into the train-
ing program, either as students or instructors.
Whether classes are held departmentally or dis-
trict-wide will depend upon the size and pattern
of the organization. Classes that cut across depart-
mental lines are economical, help encourage a com~
munity of interest, and de—emphasize interdepart-
ment rivalries. Class sessions should be fairly
brief, but frequent. Training should be conducted
during working hours. When classes are held at
other times, employees should be given‘ compen-
satory time off.

IV. TRAINING OFFICER SHOULD BE DESIGNATED

A training officer should be designated and as-
signed the responsibility of organizing the pro-
gram. In small park districts, a superintendent
should do this as part of his regular duties. In
larger units, the task may be delegated to an ofa
ficial directly responsible to the chief administra-
tive officer. Instructors should be recruited from
the local staff for “all general training. For spe-
cialized subjects, it may be desirable to enlist out-
side help.

V. CHOICE OF TRAINING METHODS

I. Lectures are most practical for informational
courses. Liberal use of movies, slides, charts, dia-
grams and other visual aids will increase the ef-
fectiveness of the presentation.

2. Conferences or discussion sessions may be
carried On under the direction of a training leader.
Participants should be encouraged to regard these
as their meetings and to voice opinions, make sug-
gestions. Conferences are particularly suited to
matters in which a variance of opinion may exist,

RECREATION

 

A park employee instructing small fry in fundamentals of life-saving at Cumberland State Park, Tennessee.

and in which c00peration may be essential.

3. Supervised, on-the-job practice may be the
most feasible method for small units. Training
can be accomplished during the regular course of
duties or in informal sessions during which the
supervisor sets up typical problems and coaches
the employee on the pr0per way to solve them.

4. Field trips often are advisable so that the em-
ployee may have direct contact with the subject
matter of the course in its actual surroundings, or
to give opportunity for definite practice. Such trips
can acquaint an employee with operations in an-
other part of a large park district which, otherwise,
he may never see.

In general, lectures should be held down to a
minimum in order not to make the session tire-
some or boring. Conferences, supervised practice
and field trips may prove the most valuable. All
should include a certain amount of free discussion.
W'ritten materials should be used to supplement
oral instruction. Lectures and discussions can be
summarized and made available in manual form.
These may also contain data and procedures on
organization, history, activities, statistics of opera-
tion, and brief facts on classifications, pay rates,
hours of work, vacations, and so forth.

VI. TRAINING FOR SUPERVISORS

In-service training for supervisors should follow
more or less in detail the training for employees in
the lower brackets, except that each subject should
be more fully covered.

Not only must the supervisor be fully informed
on all phases of organization, history, operations,
personnel, procedure, public relations, maintenance,

O

OCTOBER 1950

and upkeep of all park facilities and equipment, he
should also have an extensive training in, and an
appreciation of, the following subjects:

I. Leadership

The man who has the knowledge of leading
others can write his own ticket. We have to learn
to handle people the hard way—through daily ex-
perience. A definition may be taken from the
words of H. Gordon Selfridge, the famous London
merchant, who gave his staff the following list
contrasting bosses and leaders:

The B as:

Drives his men.
Counts on authority.

Keeps them guessing, fearful.
Talks about “I”.

Says “Get here on time.”
Finds blame for breakdown.
Knows how it is done.
Makes work a drudgery.

Says “Go I”
2. H on! to Live with and Get Along with People

A friendly person usually gets along with peOple.
He conceals his likes and dislikes. He is all busi—
ness—but he makes friendliness a big part of it.

Supervisors should learn never to show by word
or deed their like or dislike of any employee. All
should be treated fairly and honestly.

To be fair to the other fellow, a good supervisor
should learn to analyze himself and, in doing so,
he will become acquainted with a man (himself)
whom he thought he knew, but didn't know at all.
In discovering his own weaknesses, the supervisor
begins to see and learn the weaknesses of others.
He begins to learn how to get along with people.

The Leader

Coaches his men.

Gets their good will.
Arouses their enthusiasm
Makes it “\Ve”.

Gets there ahead of time.
Fixes the breakdown.
Shows how it is done.
Makes work a game.
Says “Let's go!"

253

3. How to Plan and Organize the Day’s Work

No one would think of starting on a trip without
first deciding where to go, when to start, by what
route to travel, where to stop enroute, and when
to expect arrival at the final destination. One
would not go on a fishing trip without first check—
ing the tackle box for all needed lures, rods and
reels for proper condition and making quite sure
that all supplies and equipment were available.

This is exactly the same procedure a supervisor
should apply to the daily plans which guide and
control his actions. The methods of guidance and
control should be flexible, of course, but they
should be close enough to provide not only for
day-to-day routine of work, but also for those
emergencies which arise from time—to-time.

Just what is proper planning? Let us sum it up

as follows:

a. The supervisor schedules his time.

b. He makes sure that each employee has a definite
job to perform.

c. He makes sure that all tools and equipment are in
good condition and ready for use.

(1. He checks to be sure an adequate supply of all
needed materials are available.

e. He provides for emergencies by knowing whom and
what to shift in a hurry.

f. He trains all employees in such a way that they can
quickly take the place of other employees.

g. He does his own thinking and planning—does not
wait for others to do them for him.

4. An Appreciation of the Problems of the
“Chief”
A good supervisor should learn to realize the

problems of the general superintendent or operat-'

ing head, and should be ever watchful of any acts,
conversations or deeds—disregard for regulations,
ordinances or rules—that might be harmful to the
executive’s or park district’s interests.

In cooperating with his operating head, the
supervisor should keep him informed at all times
of matters pertaining to work under his direction.
His reports, either direct or through a depart-
mental head, should be brief, but clear and accu-
rate. They should be on time. They should be
transmitted always through proper channels. At
times, the supervisor should make it his duty to
go outside the line of routine reports to inform

his superior of other things of importance which
he should know.

5. Knowledge and Ability to Utilize All Funds,
Equipment and Manpower Epiciently

Although parks are operated for service and
not for profit, nevertheless, they are business
enterprises and should be operated along good
business lines and practices. A good park super—
visor must learn to utilize available funds, equip-

254

ment, materials and manpower efficiently and to
the fullest advantage. He must know how to obtain
full service value for every dollar he has to spend.

Unfortunately, so many times park funds are
sharply limited; budgets are cut; necessary mate-
rials and manpower are not available; carefully
prepared plans must be forgotten or severely
changed; hopes and aspirations must go into dis—
card—but maximum service must be maintained.
These are thertimes and conditions which test the
ingenuity, heart' and training of every good park
supervisor, and force him to utilize what he has, to
the best of his ability, in public service.

6. Keeping A breast of the Times

A good supervisor must be constantly acquiring
knowledge of current changes in ’design, new
methods of construction and maintenance, new
equipment and materials. He should subscribe to
several technical and trade magazines and should
religiously and carefully read them. He should
develop, and keep up—to-date, files on paints, plas—
tics, wood preservatives, equipment, and so forth.

VII. ADDITIONAL MEDIUM OF TRAINING

An additional medium of training for all park
men in the higher brackets may be found in atten-
dance at the yearly schools and conventions on vari-
ous phases of park and recreation work, which are
held locally and nationally.

These sessions develop a comradeship of thought
and effort, bring about a closer personal relation-
ship, render valuable assistance in the solving of
problems, afford discussion periods for the ex-
change of thoughts and opinion, develop a deeper
interest in, and appreciation of, park work and,
quite frequently, make you realize that the grass
still may be greener in your own backyard.

Years of work with the Forest Preserve District
have made me realize that a good employee must
love his job. He must be honest with himself and
with the district for which he works. He must
believe in God, love nature, know and appreciate
people——for it is only through this trinity that he
truly becomes a PARK man. '

CHANGE OF ADDRESS : Send your new ad—
dress at least 30 days before the date of the issue
with which it is to take effect. Address: RECRE-

ATION Magazine, Circulation Department, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York. Send

old address with the new, enclosing if possible
your address label. The post office will not for—
ward copies unless you provide extra postage.
Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

 

RECREATION

I. 14“ OM Waééaamm 

j  OUNGSTERS didn’t have to go begging for fun
on Halloween night in Milwaukee last year—

because this was the first time that Halloween
parties were publicly sponsored. The City Coun-
cil appropriated $10,000 and the County Board of
Supervisors appropriated $10,000. The total
amount was placed in the hands of the Milwaukee
Fourth of July Commission, appointed by the
mayor. This was a wise choice, as this commis-
sion has had years of experience in conducting city
and county-wide programs on the Fourth of July.
In this instance, the commission promptly re-
quested the cooperation of the Department of Mu-
nicipal Recreation in conducting Halloween pro-
grams in social centers, and plans were under way.

The entire city-county program entailed a great
deal of organization. Other groups participating
were the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign
Wars, Junior Chamber of Commerce, Parent-
Teacher Associations, Common Council, County
Board of Supervisors, Fourth of July Park Asso-
ciation, and the recreation departments of \Vhite-
fish Bay, \Vest Allis, South Milwaukee, Cudahy,
\Vauwatosa and \Vest Milwaukee.

In addition to the forty social center and play-
ground parties sponsored by the Department of
Municipal Recreation, there were sixty-six other
parties at district schools, town halls, suburban
playgrounds, athletic fields, suburban high schools
and parochial schools—all sponsored by the com-
mission. One hundred thousand favors, 100,000
boxes of crackerjacks, 100,000 candy bars, 4,500
costume award prizes, 800 cases of soft drink,
movies, publicity iiyers, personnel, decorations,
dance music and tickets were supplied.

The programs conducted by the Department of
Municipal Recreation were set up according to
three types to handle grade school children and
high school boys and girls in three classifications

From a report of the Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation.

OCTOBER 1950

 

of social centers—part-time, full-time and high
school centers.

At part-time social centers, where no full-time
recreation worker was available, the program was
standardized throughout the city. At these parties.
which were held for boys and girls of grade school
age, personnel—as lined up by the Department of
Municipal Recreation—included the following:

(1) Principal of school to serve as director; if
not available, social center director of that build-
ing to serve. .

(2) Teachers of the day school or regular social
center workers if possible.

( 3) Paid personnel to be provided by the recre-
ation department if teachers or regular social cen-
ter workers are not available.

A shipment of Halloween soap arrives at an orphanage
in Freising, Germany—a gift from Milwaukee children.

Paid Personnel

(a) Director . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$6.00

(b) Doorman . . . . . . . . . . . ..$3.00

(c) Movie Operator . . . . . . . .$3.00

((1) Song Leader . . . . . . . . ..$3.00'

(e) Accompanist . . . . . . . . . ..$3.00

(f) Engineer-Janitor . . . . . . .$6.00

The director filed a special report with the rec-
reation department ofiice, listing the names and
addresses of all paid personnel and the amount
each was to be paid according to the schedule and
also the total attendance at the Halloween party.
Paid personnel for the Halloween program were
not to be placed on the social center payroll.

(4) Volunteer help to be secured by the di-
rector, if possible, from the PTA, American Legion
Posts or Fourth of July Commission.

(a) Hall Guards . . . . . . . . . . . .. 6

(b) Judges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4
(To judge, distribute prizes, favors

and refreshments)

The director of program and personnel was re-
sponsible for the assignment of duties to personnel,
and for general organization and supervision of the
program. The movie operator, song leader and ac-
companist aided the director' in conducting and
supervising the program during the evening. All
personnel were requested to report to the director
at 6:30 p. m. for instructions.

These parties were held in an assembly room or
gymnasium, at eighteen different locations. Pub-
licity Hyers were distributed in every school. Ad-
mission to the program was free, but by ticket only,
according to the seating capacity of the facility.
Tickets were, delivered to each school by the Fourth
of July Commission. Parents were notified that
they might call for their children at nine p. m. In
many cases, volunteer personnel were stationed on
street corners adjacent to schools at the close of
the program to see that the children moved along
to their homes as quickly as possible. The recrea-
tion department asked the police department for
assistance at each location. It was also suggested
that neighbors in the vicinities of the schools light
their porch lights at that time.

The parties opened with favors, consisting of
paper hats distributed at the door; activities began
with a parade of the children and the awarding of
prizes for costumes. This was, in most instances,
followed by movies, singing, stage shows and re—
freshments.

The full-time social centers, staffed by full-time
recreation personnel, were given a wide latitude in
their programs, Each varied according to the
type of community and its facilities. Some centers

256

had room activity programs—the children being
divided into groups of forty to fifty, and progres-
sively moving from room to room for a variety of
activities, such as fortune-telling, ghosts, magic,
storytelling, games, singing, movies, square danc—
ing and costume contests. Some centers had pro—
gressive game parties and dancing.

The high school parties, conducted at eight high
school gymnasiums, presented a dance program for
teen—agers which included costume contests. floor
shows and novelty dances. In many cases, a bar of
soap served as ticket of admission to this enter-
tainment so that enough of the product could be
collected for Europe’s needy. The idea was well-
accepted, too, for party-goers donated some I,000
cakes for shipment overseas.

Personnel instructions for the high school parties
were, as follows:

( I) Use regular Saturday evening social dance '
personnel and orchestra. '

(2) Fourth of July Commission to provide vol—
unteer help from American Legion Posts.

(3) Paid Personnel

. (a) Director . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ 7.00
(b) Doorman . . . . . . . . . . .  3.00
(c) Four Chaperones . . . . . .$12.00
((1) Four Wardrobe Helpers.$ 8.00
(e) Engineer-Janitor . . . . ..$ 7.50
(f) Orchestra . . . . . . . . . . ..$42.50

(g) Miscellaneous Help . . .  

(4) Volunteer Personnel
(a) Hall Guards . . . . . . . . . . 8

The director of the regular Saturday evening
social center dance notified all personnel and the
orchestra regarding service for this evening and
asked them to report to him at 7:30 p. m. for in-
structions. He also filed a special report with the
recreation department office, listing the names and
addresses of all paid personnel, the amount each
was paid according to the above schedule and the
total attendance at the Halloween party. Paid per-
sonnel for the Halloween party were not placed on
the social center payroll.

Favors were distributed, and two tickets for re—
freshments were issued to each person entering the
dance, which was scheduled for the hours eight to
eleven p. m.

The success of the Halloween program was
summed up in this letter from the chief of police:

“We have just completed compilation of our
Halloween ‘mischief’ activities requiring police at-
tention and find that the Halloween just passed
was the most quiet, orderly, law abiding and yet
enjoyable Halloween celebration ever experienced,
to our knowledge, in the city of Milwaukee.”

’ RECREATION

 

The author touching up two of his masks. Brilliant
colors are applied with oil paints. Note sawfish teeth.

If your crafts classes are ready
for something different and excit—
ing—if your clay modeling class is
searching for action and adventure
—if your art class is groping for
inspiration—then, Mr. or Mrs. Recreation Director,
your patrons are ready for a new thrill in creative
recreation. Let them make masks of papier-machel

This challenging activity really has “every—
thing” to stimulate and to motivate eager partici-
pation in crafts at your recreation center. The
youngsters will want to make their own masks for
Halloween and parties, while adults will create
“monstrosities” as decorations for the home. Cer-
tainly here is an activity which appeals to all ages,
and which permits a realization of the wildest
dreams in arts and crafts. All that is needed is a

 

little imagination, a few inexpensive bits of ma--

terial, and the fun begins.
The production of a mask involves a series of
simple operations, in proper step—by-step sequence,

utilizing fundamental skills with' clay, plaster,.

paper and paint. Yet, the amazing truth is that
anyone can make a mask the hrst time he tries,
even though he never before has handled these
materials. No previous experience is necessary to

Mr. Ebrbe, new director, Harbor District of Los
Angeles Department of Recreation and Parks, bas
been in public recreation for twenty-two years.

OCTOBER 1950

Ernest B. Ehrkc

do a presentable job, so long as some advice is
available as to the- use of materials and sequence
of operations.

Trade secrets? Bosh! \Ve all can make good
masks merely by the application of common sense
and a few short cuts to success which are listed
later in this article. Let’s not be scared of this
thrilling hobby just because we never tried it before
or because we don’t know anyone else who has had
the courage to tackle it. This, then, is adventure.

Fundamentally, the production of a mask in-
volves four separate Operations:

I. Modeling the original design in clay.

2. Producing therefrom a casting or mold in

plaster of Paris.

3. Creating a papier-mache “shell” or mask, by
applying strips of paper-and-paste to the
plaster cast.

4. Painting and finishing the mask.

Note that each step involves different interests.
Actually, from the standpoint of a leader or di-
rector of activities, the making of papier-mache
masks might be termed an application of multiple-
motivation, since your potential patron may be
stimulated or motivated by any one of a number of
skills or interests: design, sculpturing, modeling in
clay, working with plaster, actually producing the
shell or mask in papier-maclle, or the final finish-
ing of the mask with decorative painting.

In discussing each of these four operations in

practical detail, let’s list the ABC's of mask-making
with a few hints as to the choice of materials and
how best to use them. Let’s assume that you have

chosen a (lesign representing an Indian ceremonial‘

mask. a picture of which you have clipped from a
magazine. \\'hat next?
Operation (7rtr——«.-lfodeling the Face in Clay

1. Choose dry powdered modeling clay, since this
can be used over and over again by many patrons,

or for many masks.
’ (‘onserve the quantity of clay used by first

tying together a crumpled mass of newspaper or

by stalling a lot of paper into a tough paper bag.
This is used as a core. or wad-like filler, for the
center of the future model. Then cut the clay into
strips about an inch or two in thickness, lay these
strips over the paper core, completely covering it,
and you are ready to model the face—using a
minimum of material, instead of having a solid
head of clay.

3. Keep the clay covered with wet or damp cloths
when it is not being worked. This permits the re-
tention of the plastic consistency until the model-

ing is completed.
4. Avoid undercuts or recessed concavities that

may prevent your future mask from being lifted
clear. In other words, avoid “caverns” and reverse
curves on the surface of your model that may hin-
der the removal of a shell. (See operations two

and three.)
5. Remember to take your time and do not hurry

the modeling. Show details, wrinkles and expres-
sions exaggerated exactly as you wish to have them
for the future shell or mask of operation number
three, since, as this model is shaped, so will be the

shape of the hnished product.
Operation Two—Producing a Mold or Plaster Cast
I. First, build a cardboard fence to surround

‘l’o Perl-nil: Easy Removal (if
Mask From Plaster-cast“
AVOID BECEDING'CURVES

5-ng

/

CORRECT METHOD -

Mask Mag 5: “Lit-"rm"
'From Casl’

258

the clay model. To do this, take some old card-
board posters, cut them in half lengthwise, staple
the pieces together end to end so that the resultant
cardboard can be bent to encircle the clay model.
with free space (for plaster) of about two inches
all around, at the table level. In other words, if
your model were circular, for example, with a
diameter of eight inches, your cardboard wall
would have a diameter of about twelve inches, thus
allowing two inches free space where the plaster is
to be poured later. Personally, I also taper the t0p
of my cardboard fence inward, to conserve plaster.

2. Lubricate or grease the surface of the clay
model with liquid vaseline, if the surface is quite
dry. This will prevent the clay from adhering to
the plaster. However, it is best to have the clay
moist or damp and plastic, in which case no lubri-
cation is needed.

3. Mix the plaster of Paris with water and stir
by hand, using a stick or large spoon or ladle.
W arning! Do not try using an electric mixer since
this may result in a very rapid setting of the plaster
while it is being mixed, and you will find yourself
with a dishpan full of plaster that is as hard as
a rock!

Snowma CROSS-SECTION
AFTER PLASTER-OF-H‘RIS
HAS BEEN Poona on CLAY MODEL

    
 

4 ‘ I
"" To Ecosomz: CLAY Q3“

  
   

Stir evenly, until lumps are eliminated and the
plaster resembles heavy cream. Pour onto the clay
model, with the cardboard fence in position. When
the surface of the model is covered to a depth of
one inch or so, allow the plaster to “set” (this may
take an hour), and remove the clay model. This
clay may be used over and over again, merely by
keeping it moist or by wetting it after its removal
from the plaster cast.

' If you wish to have the plaster set faster, add
salt to the original mixture of plaster and water;
if you wish it to set more slowly, add glue.‘

4. Mix a little plaster of Paris in a small cup
and “touch up” or fill any pockets or air holes on
the surface of the plaster casting. These holes are
usually very small, but represent defects where the
plaster failed to effect a smooth finish.

5. Now apply= three coats of white shellac to the
surface. The result will be a smooth, slick mold,
ready for operation three. (Note: this mold or
plaster cast may be used repeatedly to produce

RECREATION

hundreds of identical masks, if desired!)
Operation Three—Production of Papier—M ache
Shell

1. Use building paper, called resin-sheathing, ob-
tainable at any building materials store or lumber-
yard. (This is not tarpaper.) Use the twenty-
pound style for ordinary work, and the thirty-
pound style for very large masks.

2. Tear (do not cut) this building paper into
several pieces about one-by-four inches, and soak
them in water; squeeze out the water as pieces are
needed; lay them on a heavy piece of plate glass;
and apply thick wallpaper paste to one side of the
paper. Use a paintbrush to apply the paste.

3. Lubricate the surface of the plaster cast with a
light coat of liquid vaseline, to prevent the papier-
mache from adhering to the surface. Or, better still
perhaps, use no lubricant whatever, but rather
cover the entire surface with “water-spaked-and-
squeezed-out" pieces of paper toweling. This acts
as a thin separator, preventing the building paper
from adhering to the surface and not interfering
with the exact shaping of the shell in conformance
with the modeled surface.

4. Now apply pieces
of building paper plus
wallpaper paste as
noted in step two. It
is easy to keep track
of the number of lay—
ers you have applied
because the paper is
pink on one side and
gray on the other.
Thus, if your first layer is all pink, make the next
layer all gray, so that you can readily observe when
the next layer has been completed, until about four
layers have been pressed into the plaster cast, by
hand. Your fingers can easily force a positive fit
of this sticky paper uniformly over the irregulari—
ties of the casting. This kind of paper is very
pliable and plastic when so applied, and yet, when
it dries, the result is a tough shell as hard as a
rock but as light as a feather!

5. Some craftsmen add a bit of dextrine to the
wallpaper paste to assure a very hard-finished
product. Also, the wallpaper paste may be made
extra-sticky if some wallpaper adhesive is added
to the paste. These items are quite cheap and are
readily available wherever you requisition the wall-
paper paste.

6. All right, now relax and allow four or five
days for your mask (the papier-mache shell) to dry
before removing it from the plaster cast. .
Operation Four—Painting and Finishing the M ask

 

CRIBS? 55cm»: 0‘? Plunder (its?

5huh3 Brier Me ‘55:“.
Conforminq WiII't Maldui Face.
Titus Aw Normal. Or Mosxs Max

5: Wm Fans ASMKLI Cast

OCTOBER 1950

I. When you have removed the shell—mask from
the cast, and “are certain that it is really dry, you
are ready to smooth the rough spots on the face
with fine sandpaper. Then applyr two coats of white
shellac and paint in colors to suit your design. Oil
paint adheres readin to a shellacked surface, but
if you prefer water colors, it is best to apply a coat
of flat white to the shellacked surface before paint-
ing—as shellac is quite slick for water colors. M y
personal preference is oil paint. Incidentally, you
may wonder why shellac is recommended as a lmse
for painting. Actually, the shellac surface prevents
the paint from being soaked up by the blotter-
effect of the papier-mache.

2. If a truly “fancy” surface is desired, resem-
bling the smoothness of human skin, apply two or
three coats of Jesso (sometimes sold as Ghesso)
to the original papier-mache shell, and than sand-
paper lightly and apply one or two coats of shellac
before painting. This method positively hides all
undesirable seams or irregularities, and results in
a superb finish. Jesso can readily be mixed by the
craftsman, but I prefer to purchase a small jar of
this material from an art store. A little goes a long
way.

Jesso FORMULA

In case any reader wishes to make his own
Iesso, however, the following brief formula is sub-
mitted:

a. Make up a 2 lb. mix composed of Mt lb. dry
plaster of Paris, 1% lb. whiting (wall coating or
white calcamine) .

b. In a tin container, put V2 cup water; add 1
teaspoon linseed oil, plus Mt teaspoon glycerin and
2 tablespoons glue.

c. Boil “b” items above, and while boiling, stir
in some of item “a,” until the whole mixture is like
putty. Then thin with hot water until it is of brush-
ing consistency, and cool. Now it is ready to use.

3. You can display your individual resourceful-
ness or originality in putting on the finishing
touches. Much can be done with paint. Also, ar-
tificial hair may be made up of colored yarn; and,
by looping the individual strands through a piece
of sock, a wig can be created which may be glued
into place. Or, the stones from cheap earrings
(purchased in the ten-cent store) may be used as
pupils of the eyes. Quite effective is the use of
real teeth, such as sawfish or sharks' teeth in masks
designed to decorate a den. Perhaps a ring in the
nose or a gaudy headdress with real feathers is
desired! One is limited only by his imagination-—
so the finished results can be quite startling.

4. In making a pumpkin head mask for Hallow-
een, some may wish to have a “complete” mask

259

covering all of the head, front and back. This is
easily accomplished by making the mask in two
sections or halves, and securely fastening these
halves together, using papier-mache and paste with
wallpaper adhesive. The same principle may be
applied to masks intended for use in the play—
ground circus or for other special events, such as
parades, pageants and so on. The head of a lion,
wolf or bear may easily be produced in sections,

readily recognize the practical value of this activity
—practical in its appeal to your crafts patrons, prac-
tical in that the cost of materials is negligible and
the techniques are quite simple. Also, it is easily
apparent that mask-making is rich in rewards;
your patrons will thrill at their ability to “do things
with their hands.”

Here is a group activity which offers a happy
experience resulting in pride of accomplishment. A

group activity, yes, but one in which self-expres- ‘
sion and personality of the individual predominate.
This is recreation.

and assembled so that the seams are invisible.
an: an: a: *

As a professional recreation worker, you will

 

F OR THE HALLOWEEN TABLE . . .

O

00R MR. AND MRS. SORCERER! They have to gather

herbs, lizards’ eyes, crocodile tears and powdered bats’
wings to weave a magic spell. No wonder they envy mor-
tals who, with the aid of costumes, makeup and objets de
.Halloween, can change people into goblins and ghosts, and
homes and centers into caverns for these nightmarish char-
acters. Imagine what they would require to transform
ordinary-refreshments into pumpkins or scarecrows! Yet,
all you have to do is—well, the following are examples of
how effortlessly you wave your magic wand . . .

5

Halloween Witches—On each plate, place half
a. doughnut (split crosswise). Make a head of
orange ice, with semi-sweet chocolate bits for the
eyes, nose and mouth. Top this with the remain-
ing doughnut half— cut side down—and add an inverted
ice cream cone for the final touch.

I

Halloween Scarecrow—For this attractive party

table centerpiece, use a plate with a flat bottom.

Place on it plain and sugared doughnuts alter—
nately, eight high, with a stalk of celery making its way
through the holes in the doughnuts. Have the end of the
celery ragged. Then take another stalk of celery, place it
under the seventh doughnut and use two plain and one
sugared doughnut for each side of this stalk. N ow take a
plain doughnut, place it on top of the eighth doughnut,
vertically, and t0p with a sugared doughnut. Use a few
round orange gum drops to make the eyebrows, eyes and
mouth of your glorified scarecrow, and licorice for the
pupils of his eyes. Cut another gum drop in half for
his button nose. His “features” are held in place with
regular toothpicks.

 

260 RECREATION .'

WINDOWS BLOOM
ON a gig. W

HALLOWEEN window-painting contest in Scarsdale,
New York, was one of many throughout the nation
last year. Youngsters, past masters at the surreptitious
pastime of smearing windows, turned artist with a will,
as well as with the full approval of their elders; while
the Scarsdale recreation department and the local
chamber of commerce, joint sponsors of the contest, won
the hearty commendation of the whole village.
Here, a point system was used in the determining of

 

awards and honorable mentions according to age groups: The grand prize, awarded to the above, was won by a
Group II, Six to ten; Group  eleven to fourteen; school student‘with  out of a possible  [)4
Group IV, fifteen to eighteen. Prizes were given for the Below, second prize winner in Group 1v. {0, “no,”
best Halloween theme, the best art work, and the most loween Theme.” Awards were made at dinner for wit

comical. \Nith eighty participation and winning points,
the Scarsdale High School won the silver loving cup.
Also, two parties were sponsored by the schools.

The Scarsdale Inquirer, an enthusiasticparticipant in
the awarding of honors, commented editorially: “So
many people cooperated to make the window-painting
contest a success that it is difficult to know where to
begin and where to end congratulations . . . It is worthy
of note that this Halloween set a record for peaceful,
nondestructive observance. Let’s have more like this
one in the future.”

 

Admirers watched paintings take shape; in some eases, Artists at work. Many cooperated in project; re
mothers brought dinner and hot cocoa to busy workers. lion department and chamber of commerce won pl

 

Paul ('. Sisco

menu
BALL

LICKER BALL is a new passing game played with
F a regulation football. Capable of training foot-
ball men in the art of ball-handling, it is also an
excellent group game, utilizing simple equipment
that can be set up easily in camps, school gyms and
on playgrounds.

The game is the brain child of two members of
the University of Illinois Physical Education De—
partmentw—H. E. Hek) Kenney and Armond
Seidler. The idea hit them while they were watch—
ing the wonderful ball—handling displayedduring a
Bear-Cardinal football game. They decided that
what was needed to increase the ball-handling ef-
ficiency of college and high school players was
simply a game that would make them handle a
football more often. Flicker ball was the result.

The advantages of the game are multifold. In
addition to the obvious fact that it teaches ball-
handling, flicker ball can accommodate large groups.
Any number of players can be used and the game
can be played both indoors and out.

Existing basketball facilities are utilized for the
indoor game and any football field is perfect for
outdoors. The game does away with dull, routine

 

Reprinted through courtesy of Scholastic Coach.

262

hall-handling drills; equipment is simple; and
Flicker ball goals can he set up quickly in gyms,
camps or on playgrounds.

Flicker ball was demonstrated last year before
the Illinois State High School Football Coaches’
Clinic, and between halves of an Illinois-Indiana
basketball game. Everyone voiced his approval of
it. Such Illinois football stars as Perry Moss, Tom
Gallagher, Don Maechtle, and Fred Major have
played the game, liked it, and called it a good
training aid.

’ Regular flicker ball activity 'is carried on daily
in severali Illinois physical education classes. Crux
of the game is that the ball can be advanced only
by passing, and that the player holding the ball can
move only laterally and backwards, never forward.
Here is how it is played: ~

Equipment—A regulation football is the of—
ficial hall. The goal is a four-foot-by—flve—foot
rectangle, with a two—foot-by-three-foot rounded
rectangular hole in it. The goal is mounted with
its surface at right angles to the side lines of the
court, with the lower edge of the hole eight feet
from the floor.

Players—Indoors, five players are needed; out-
doors, eight players. However, the number can
vary to suit the occasion.

Field—Indoors, the game can be played on any
regulation basketball court. The goal is attached
to the basketball board with the holefeight feet
from the floor.

Outdoors, the field generally should be fifty—
three yards in length, thirty yards wide, with the
goals set fifteen feet back of the end lines. Each
goal is placed equidistant from the side lines, paral-
lel to the end line. It is suggested that the fields
be laid out across the width of a football field.
Three such fields can be made from a one hundred-
yard gridiron.

A free-throw line is placed thirty feet in front of
each end line.

A half-circle area, the radius of which is the
distance from the goal to the outer edge of the free-
throw circle, is called the dead-ball area. No of-
fensive player may touch the ball here, and a de—
fensive player with the ball in his possession may
remain in this area only three seconds.

When the ball is touched in the dead—ball area
by the offensive team, the opponents are given
possession out-of-bounds on the side, in line with
the free-throw line. Thus, there is no rebounding
in the game.

Timing—The game is played in two twenty-
minute halves. Time is out whenever the ball ,is

RECREATION

not in play. Each team is allowed three two-min-
ute time-outs per half. A free throw, shot by any
player, is given for each extra time-out.

Scoring—A goal, counting two points, is scored
by throwing the ball into the goal. The ball must
be thrown with one hand.

Any attempt by a defensive player deliberately
to bat the ball 21V 'ay from the goal into the dead—
ball area will result in the awarding of the goal.

A successful free-throw attempt counts one
point.

F ouls—F or a personal foul, the fouled player
gets one free shot from the center jump circle
(indoors). or from the free-throw line (outdoors).
The ball is (lead, and whether the shot is made or
not, the throwing team is given possession of the
ball out-of—bounds at the center line. This is to
discourage fouling. The thrower cannot cross the
center line until the ball is dead.

Five fouls eliminate a player. Throws are
awarded: one for a personal foul or two for a
flagrant foul or unsportsmanlike conduct.

On a double foul, each player receives a free

throw and the ball is then put into play by a center
jump.

Ball in play—~The ball
is put into play by toss-
ing it into the air be-
tween the two centers.
The man first obtaining
the ball must pass it later-
ally, and another player
must touch it before the
center can touch the ball
again.

The center jump. is
used to start each half and
after a double foul. A
jump ball is used to set-
tle all held ball situations.
The first man receiving

the tap must pass later-
ally.

Play—No one is per-
mitted to advance toward
the goal while the ball is
in his control. He may
only run backwards or
laterally.

If a player happens to
be running toward the
goal when he gains con—
trol of the ball, he is al-
lowed the maximum of a

OCTOBER 1950

Layout of Indoor Court

|
DEAD BALL

DEAD BALL

 

step and a half before he must stop or swerve
laterally.

No player is allowed to malt:- (a InIIIlEII runtmt
with an opponent.

Out-of—lmunds- All balls are dead a.~ mull :1-
they cross the end line, whether the try ta pr tht g. 121i
is successful or not. In any case, the ptmeniun of

the ball is given to the defending team behind its
own end line.

When the ball goes uut-of—lmunils, an uppmwm
of the player who last touched it will be given
possession out-of—bounds at that point.

Five seconds are allowed to put the ball into

play. Loss of ball at that point is the penalty for
violation.

In passing the ball from out-of—bounds, these
rules apply:

I. In front court, player must throw the ball
laterally.

2. In back court, player may throw the ball
anywhere in this area.

Having had considerable experience with the
game, I can reasonably recommend flicker ball as
an excellent group activity.

Layout of Outdoor Field

TGOAL
DEAD 3m. '5 AREA

.._FREE THROW LINE

535’:
YAQ‘DS

30 mans

" ' FREE THROW LINE

DEAD BALL .5. AREA

_i._GOAL

2V3

 

Training program includes fundamentals of sports.

How another country trains volunteers . . .

7k

SWISS TWIS

The Swiss are not only experts
in making watches and cheese,
but are also keen on developing
alert minds and strong bodies. As
one of the world’s oldest democ-
racies, Switzerland has long been
a nation of sports enthusiasts. Not until recently,
however, did they begin a program to interest all
Swiss boys in developing the mind and body
through a system of training boys to become com-
munity leaders in sports.

 

Of course, mountain-climbing has always been.

one of Switzerland’s most popular sports; but less
than ten years ago, many Swiss began to ask:
“Why don’t our young men become champions in
other sports as well?” The question snowballed
into such a popular movement that it led to what is
probably the most unique and first school of its
kind in the world—~the Swiss Federal School for
Sports and Gymnastics.

Now on a ‘ridge 3,000 feet above sea level, at
beautiful Magglingen, near the Swiss watch—mak-
ing capital of Bienne, hundreds of Swiss boys may
be seen daily playing basketball on massive con-
crete courts, swimming in a modern pool with
underground windows, running around a neat cin-
der track near the edge of a mountain, or com-
pleting obstacle races in the woods.

Terms at the school last only two weeks, but one
recent graduate spoke for all when he said: “I
could stay here two centuries.” And why not?
Everything is free.

Harry Knrsh, a free-lance feature writer, i1 interwer
intererted in foreign alfairs. He .rpent fine weehx in
Switzerland laJt year gathering enough material for
more than twenty-nine dijferent writing anignnzentr.

RECREATION

Harry Kursh

SPlHlTS

Students, who come from all over Switzerland,
receive all their expenses, including traveling to
and from the school, for these are paid by the
government. They get free medical examinations
when they arrive and depart. They sleep two or
three to a room in what used to be one of Switzer-
land’s most luxurious hotels, and all their meals
are “on the house.” In addition, they are given a
daily expense allowance of seven Swiss francs
(about $1.75) and are provided with all necessary
sports equipment, including attractive uniforms,
so that they need not wear out their own clothing.

To qualify for attendance at the school, a boy
must be past fifteen—the school-leaving age in
Switzerland———a rugged land that can be crossed in
he have a good character. In Switzerland, good
character means belief in democracy; and at the
Federal School for Sports it also means a promise
to carry on the Spirit and traditions of the school
in the community from which the boy comes.

\Vith more than 3,000 tiny communities in
Switzerland—a rugged land that can be crossed in
less time than it takes to get from New York to
Boston by train—the aim of the Swiss government
is to get all the young people in its areas inter-
ested in sports. Therefore, the Federal School for
Sports does not try to make professional athletes
out of the boys, but merely aims to teach the funda-
mentals of various sports, principles of good
leadership and conscientious sportsmanship. Then
the boys go back to their towns and villages as
volunteer Sports leaders, and organize sports
groups on their own. Even here the school doesn’t
stop. If a boy wants to organize a ski team, for
example, the school or the government will see to
it that he gets the necessary skis and equipment to
help him carry out his volunteer work.

So far, the school has given more than 130

OCTOBER 1950

 

School activities generate health and enthusiasm.

courses in sports, with nearly sixty boy-leaders
taking part in each. The courses have been so suc-
cessful that today the school's program has been
expanded to give special courses for such adults
as teachers and ministers, who participate in the
courses alongside the boys. Is has also designel
courses to prepare young men and women for
physical training jobs with sports associations,
trade unions, industrial firms and holiday resrnrts
It even has free courses for doctors. to teach
them the special techniques of handling sports in-
juries.

A typical day's program at the school goes some—
thing like this:

6:00 a.m.—-—waking up to music over loud-

Speakers

6:10 a.m.——-setting-up exercises and a run

6:50 a.1n.—cleaning up

7:30 a.m.—~conference on methods in sports

8:30 a.m.—playing basketball, swimming and

relays
1:45 p.m.—-—lilm on track and held skills
2:15 p.m.-——playing football, wrestling. boxing

and track

7 :45 p.m.-——piano concert in the administration
house

to :30 p.111.—liglll$ onti everyone in bed for the
night!

The school actually got its start in 194I, when
the Swiss government passed a law apprOpriating
funds for establishing a federal sports institute.
The main idea was that with a boost from the
government, Swiss boys would take such an in-
terest in sports, that by the time they were ready
to go into the Swiss Army, nearly all would be
physically and mentally sound. Though the Swiss
have never been at war in nearly two hundred
years, they have kept wide—awake “bulldogs” on all
their borders by means of having all men serve two
weeks each year in the army. Key to the whole
new Swiss nationwide sports program was the
Federal School for Sports.

Yet, for several years, plans for the school re-
mained only on paper. The big headache was to
obtain a place that would be large enough to handle
several hundred robust youngsters at a time and
be far enough away from any possible interruptions
of city life. The second major problem was to
design facilities that would utilize every up-to-date
principle of physical education, with room to grow
as new ideas were added if the plan should prove
successful. \Vith plenty of that same ingenuity
around that goes into making Swiss watches, there

were enough aSpirins designed for this part of the "

headache.

But, during the war, the plan had to be kept on
paper for another four years as Switzerland kept
all available manpower mobilized on her mountain-
ous borders, where the threat of Nazi invasion
always seemed minutes away. After the war, the
plan got off paper and into the hands of the cele-
brated Swiss craftsmen, and masons, carpenters
and architects went to work to build the world’s
most modern sports school.

Three years later, the school, not even completed,
took second-place honors in a world-wide compe-
tition for best sports-school architecture at the
1948 London Olympic games. Now it has what
is probably the world’s highest basketball court—-
on a hard-surfaced sports ground so gigantic, it
could hold the drills of an army regiment and have
room left over for a football game. A

In addition, the school features an outdoor
swimming pool which has the strange shape of a
kidney bean, so that boys can dive in at one end
without getting in the way of relay swimmers.
Now boys learn to swim in the pool, which also
has large circular underwater portholes from which

instructors, standing on platforms below water
level, can watch student progress.

With nearly $1,000,000 invested, a lot of money
for a Lilliputian nation, the school also boasts
several tennis courts; a gymnasium more than

266

The sport
of mountain
clin‘ibiug is
r i s k y b u t
p o p 11 la r.

 

120 feet long, with one whole side made of un-
breakable glass ; a seventy-five-foot indoor training
sports hall, with solid linoleum floors and high-bar
support poles that rise smoothly out of the floor by
linger-tip pressure; lecture rooms, completely
equipped with movie projectors; pavilions for
fencing, boxing rhythmics; ice rinks; golf courses;
and a complete library of sports books 'and maga-
zines. It also has 300 and 400-meter tracks.
a shooting range, a ski jump and six athletic fields
at different levels. After a workout, the boys enter
clean, pine-paneled Finnish steam baths, where
they make steam by pouring cold water onto hot
rocks.

Proudly upholding the centuries-old Swiss tra-
dition that education of the body should not run
ahead of education of the mind, the school also
has laboratories and an institute for sports physi-
ology, where boys learn the importance of different
parts of the body for physical health. Even art and
music are not neglected. Special courses in arts
and crafts encourage boys to use their hands for
creative skills, and music is brought in through
community singing and concerts. The community
singing part of the daily program has been such an
outstanding success that hardly a minute goes by
when some visitor cannot hear quaint Swiss folk
tunes rising loftily from the throats of enthusiastic
students.

With hardly 4,000,000 making up‘ Switzerland’s
population, it won’t be long now before every
Swiss will be echoing the Olympic slogan: “Citius,
Fortius, Altius” (Quicker, Stronger, Higher) !

RECREATION

“College students interested in eonnselorships should
concern themselves with leadership deveIOprnent.”

EADERSIIIP, more than areas and facilities, activ-
L ities and programs, important as they are,
will determine the success of every camping season.
Therefore, college students who are interested in
acquiring camping experience should concern
themselves more with leadership development as
future counselors. In camp, where human relation-
ships and values are so important, creative, intel-
ligent and matured counselors are absolutely essen-
tial. The chief purpose of good counselors is to fill
the needs of campers with creative, varied activities
which will constructively foster a free expansion
of camp possibilities, and to conduct these activities
in such a way that the camper is assured of a happy
and richly-satisfying summer. No one familiar with
a good camp program—including crafts, music,
swimming, athletics, nature, hikes and a host of
other activities—would, for a moment, suggest that
it be conducted without competent leaders.

In order to serve the individual camper effec-
tively, counselors must provide him with an educa-
tional experience based upon his needs, such as
learning to adjust to' others, to change in environ-
ment, to find satisfying experience within his own
particular abilities. Therefore, it is imp01tant that
the counselor give the individual the attention he
needs, and allow him an opportunity for maximum
participation in as wide a variety of activities as
his abilities permit.

The counselor’s infectious enthusiasm should
give zest to the camp program which is guided by
the self-expression and initiative of the camper,
encouraging his, growth and eventually achieving

 

Ant/nor i5 placement director, Brooklyn College, N. Y.

OCTOBER 1950

I College Students

as Camp Counselors

Robert E. Link

sound educational objectives. Counselors should
not overlook the teaching of skills needed for par-
ticipation in various camp activities. Campers will
enjoy most of the activities which they perform
well, and skill helps one to participate satisfactorily.
Youngsters should acquire new skills while at
camp. To the extent that the counselor succeeds
in achieving these objectives, he is contributing to
a well-balanced, integrated individual at camp and
later at home.

Persons who get bored or irritated at the impet-
uousness, immaturity and energy of children should
not be counselors. To do a good camp job. it is
necessary to win their confidence, to be able to
settle differences within the group, and to be open—
minded at all times. The ability to exercise demo-
cratic leadership is one of the most important ‘re—
quirements for the counselor who is expected to
adhere to camp policies and regulations without
being dictatorial or arousing antagonism within the
group.

A pleasant personality is an important and
valuable asset as it will help the counselor win
the friendship, respect, confidence and loyalty of
his campers and camp staE. Tact, friendliness and
an attractive appearance are all important. L'oun-
selors who find it diflicult, irksome and meaning—
less to maintain, in their living, the ideals and
standards of camp life will find little satisfaction
in their work—and probably will be unsuccessful.

The counselor assists individuals to plan activi-
ties as one of the group, so that in the active
sharing of ideas, the campers gain experience in
functioning as a group and acquire skills in manag-
ing their own activities. The counselor should h‘

2'7

able to draw out, strengthen, and put into effective
action the leadership capacities inherent in young
people. Once started, the unit camp group should
. be able to carry on successfully many activities
under its own leadership.

The following are personal qualifications desir—
able for a counselor to possess in order to be
successful :

I. A sense of the worth and dignity of every

child.

2. An understanding of the interests and needs

of children.

3. A personal realization'and understanding of
the joy of life and of the art of living.

A sense of humor.

A desire to serve.

A concern with the growth and deve10pment

of young people through creative eXpression.

. A sympathetic attitude towards others’ opin-
ions and personalities.

8. An ability to lead democratically.

9. Organizing ability.

Io. Ability to get along with peOple.

It is important, too, that counselors hll these
added requirements or their equivalent:

1. A counselor should have some special train-
ing, such as would be required for majors—in
sociology, recreation, physical education or in any
other major given at college.

2. Counselors should be matured in years. This
does not necessarily mean that any specific age
requirements should be set for them. Maturity
should not be based on chronological age require-
ment.

3. A counselor should have interest and should
be able to partake in informal games, contests,
events.

4. A counselor should have a definite plan of
action in order to maintain and be responsible
for the morals of the campers.

\Vith all this as a background, the prospective
college student interested in camp employment
must give considerable time to the writing of a
letter of application. Suggestions for the writing
of this, which should prove helpful in locating a
position, are as follows: "

I. Letters of application should be well planned.

2. Before you write the letter, list all the charac—
teristics and experience desirable for the job you
want. Opposite each of these qualifications which
you possess, note how you can demonstrate to a
prospective employer that you have these abilities.

3. Employers get hundreds of letters of applica-
tion, so try to make yours appear outstanding be-
cause of its originality, neatness, completeness or

9'2"?

\I

268

arrangement. Write a letter which no one else can
sign because it describes you.

4. Don’t delay in sending out letters if you
want results. If you send out fifteen letters today,

you will know in a week if they will bring you ‘

interviews. If interviews (10 not result, revise your
letters.

5. Letters should be correct in grammar, spell-
ing, punctuation and accurate in information. By
all means, type them—u-if you don’t own a type-
writer, rent or borrow one. Use plain white sta—
tionery ; standard typing paper ( eight-and-one-half-
by-eleven inches); and legal—sized enve10pes are al-
ways acceptable. State briefly the job for which
you are applying, why you feel qualified; state
when you will be available for a personal interview,
and enclose' a copy of your resume.

Suggested don’fs:

I. Don’t use long, involved sentences, flower’y
words, or trite business phrases.

2. Don’t draw conclusions for your prospect.

3. Don’t use overstatements.

4. Don’t use apologetic or negative statements.

Having met all your other necessary prerequi—
sites for camp placement, the day arrives for your
appointment with the camp director. Here, your
attractive personal appearance will count heavily
in your favor; good grooming is a must. You have
read this many times, but as much as it is empha-
sized, personnel directors still coleain about
applicants appearing hatless, in “bobby sox” and
untidy skirt-sweater combinations. Simple street
clothes, in season, well-fitted, brushed and pressed,
with tasteful accessories and a becoming hat are
appropriate.

You will also do a great deal toward creating a
favorable impression if you are punctual, well-
groomed and attentive. If your interview is at
eleven o’clock, be there five minutes before. You
may be kept waiting and the interim will be easier
on you if you make use of reading material and
forget to be impatient. It is advisable to schedule
interviews well apart so that you don’t have to
worry about keeping another employer waiting if
an interview extends longer than you had planned.

Before the interview, you should anticipate ques-
tions the employer may ask; have clear information
on the tip of your tongue. When you answer his
questions, look at him—not out of the window or
at a picture on his desk. Don’t be afraid to ask
questions yourself. Your interviewer will expect
you to inquire about policies of the camp, working
hours and salary. Sometimes he may say that he
will let you know. Neither you nor he is at all
obliged to make any definite commitment during

RECREATION

Placement

O A realization of the values of a camping work-ex-
perience in the preprofessional and future professional
areas available to graduates of a liberal arts college
led the director of placement of Brooklyn College to
set up, in December 1948, a group guidance service
in camp counselling for student groups. As part of a
placement office program, starting in November, the
placement office of the college arranged specific pe—
riods in which to meet with groups of approximately
fifty students at a time.

This resulted in the interviewing, from December
to June, 1950, of 2,176 students for possible camp
positions. Students were individually referred to spe-
cific camp jobs on the basis of their interests, aptitudes
and related work experience. By this expansion of
its recruitment program, the college not only more
than doubled its camp placements, but also the number
of camps placing job orders with it. Such orders now
come from organizational camps, private camps, city
day camps, hotel day camps, bungalow colony day
camps, hotels and resorts, and Camp Association
Service Agencies.

A recent survey of placement ofiice records of basic
counselor requirements has resulted in the following
brief breakdown of these requirements:

UNIT HEAD

Age—minimum of twenty-three years; experience——
at least three years' summer camp experience; educa-
tion—college degree and at least one year's attendance
at a recognized school of social work with a specializa—
tion in group work or case work or combination there-
of; responsibilities—program supervision, organization,
supervision of counselors in living routines.

the time of the interview.

A few weeks pass by and you now become
anxious regarding your camp position. It is further

~ suggested that the resume now be used:
a. As a follow-up after an interview as a re-
l minder to the camp director. Send it with an
accompanying letter expressing interest in the

work and thanks for the interview.

b. As a permanent record, to be given to the
employment agencies or friends who may give you

l introductions.
c. Sometimes as an enclosure with a letter of

application or with application blank.

(:1. Sometimes to gain interest when you have
trouble getting past the reception desk to see the
person who might hire you.

The personal data sheet, or resmne, should
include:

a. Personal facts of importance, such as

b. Education; special training

c. Experience
(1. Your qualifications for the job using specific

OCTOBER 1950

 

SENIOR COUNSELORS

Age—minimum of twenty years; experience—at
least two years of experience as a camp staff member
or experience working in a community center plus
well-developed program skill; educationv ‘three years
of college completed; responsibilities—assist in pro-
gramming, participation in living routine, responsibility
for cleanup, night duty, night patrol, serve as relief
counselor when necessary, act as unit head in the event
of his absence.

COUNSELORS

Age—minimum of eighteen years; experience-at
least one summer’s experience at a summer camp or
day camp or paid or volunteer,wnrk at a settlement
house, community center, or the like; education—at
least one year of college; responsibilities—wpervision
of living routines of children. care of one cottage
group for an entire camp trip, planning and clearing
with unit head on specific daily routines—such as night
patrol cleanup, night duty, evening program, and so on.

SPECIALTY COUNSELOR

Age—minimum of twenty-one years; e.rperirnce-a1
least two summers’ camp experience or a minimum of
one year’s teaching experience in the school system or
“Y” settlement house or community center; education
—--specialized training in skill; swimmers must have a
Red Cross certificate; responsibilities—for swim-
ming counselor, full and complete control of swim-
ming area. supervision of counselors on duty at lake
or pool, efiiciency in pool setup. an adequate program.
Requirements .are similar for other specialties in their
specific areas of responsibility.

examples arranged in order of their importance.
Have subtopics in chronological order. For in—
stance, if you have specific training and little
experience, the training would be more important.

e. References

Personal record form: Name, address, age,
height, weight, health, married or single.

Finally, in return, the qualified counselor who is
selected receives the fun that comes from living close
to nature in the woods and mountains, which is not
equalled by city entertainment. Any person in-
terested in being a camp counselor must enjoy the
outdoor life and must be in good health and have
the physical stamina to live in a camp environment.

For the counselor to handle a variety of group
activities, he must have some knowledge of human

behavior. It is in a camping situation that a quali-
fied counselor can influence young peOple for
positive, democratic living. The growth and
achievements of young peOple are the greatest
rewards of the camp counselor.

2! I"

Questions About Biddy Basketball

Just “what is Biddy Basketball?

liddy Basketball is a new game for boys and
girls from eight to eleven years of age. It is based
on regulation basketball, with variations that make
it possible for younger children to learn the game
and to enjoy it with no ill effects.

On what hind of a floor is it played?

On any regular gymnasium fioor. At the Cath-.

olic Youth Center, we have a floor fifty-by—ninety
feet and have divided it into three regulation Biddy
Basketball Hoors, thirty-by-flfty feet. Of course,
only the end courts can be used for games, but the
center is available for practice shooting, and so
forth.

ll’ hat kind of equipment is used?

“'e have a special adjustable basket that comes
down to eight-and-one-half feet from the floor so
that the youngsters can shoot for baskets which
are suitable for their size and strength. The basket—
ball is a junior size, about three inches smaller in
circumference than a regulation ball, and is in—
Hated from six to eight pounds.

In what way does it di§er from regular basketball?

Outside of the equipment and size of the iioor,
the only difference is in the length of the playing
quarters—six minutes—and in a shorter foul line,

set at twelve feet. Six fouls are allowed instead of
the regulation flve.

H ow did you happen to think of this new game?
For years I’ve watched youngsters playing bas—

 

Jay Archer, originator of Biddy Basketball, is execn-
tine director of Catholic Youth Center, Scranton, Pa.

270

. . . answered by Jay Archer

ketball with the large ball and the ten—foot baskets,
struggling to shoot baskets, having trouble drib—
bling and passing the ball. I thought that there must
be some way to make the game more playable for
them. After many years of experimenting, I finally
came up with the idea of reducing the height of the
baskets, shortening the size of the playing iioor,
and making the other changes which help bring
basketball within the physical reach of these eight-
to-eleven-year-old boys and girls.

Wasn’t it difficnlt to get the special adjustable
baskets which you use? '

It wasn’t too easy! For many years we tried to
lower the whole thing—~—the basket and the post—
but it was too expensive a proposition. Finally, at
the CYC, we came up with the idea of inserting
portable posts with baskets that could be dropped
to eight—and-one—half feet, or raised back up to ten
feet if necessary—and the problem was solved.

ll/ hen did you first try out the game?

We first played it at the CYC in March 1950.
shortly after the center opened.

And how did the youngsters take to it?

They love it! At last they can play basketball
the way that they see the big fellows playing it.
Spectators, too, have been very pleased with the
game. A good many coaches have come to the CYC
to ask about Biddy Basketball, and have com-
mented highly upon it. Through this game, young-
sters develop a love for the game of basketball,
gain experience and a fine sense of sportsmanship.
Many of the boys playing the game now will be
among the first to join their high school team when
they grow older.

RECREATION

To promote the values inherent in this activity.

I International Festival

of

SQUARE DANCING

BELIEVING that the many values inherent in
square dancing as a recreation for all ages and

kinds of people would be strengthened through an
informal get-together on a nationwide basis, a
farm newspaper and its radio station have joined
forces with a park recreation group to make such
a gathering a reality in Chicago on Saturday, Octo—
ber 28, 1950, at the 20,000-seat, indoor Chicago
Stadium.

The farm paper, the log-year-old Prairie Farmer,
like its 50,000-watt radio station, WLS, serves
most of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and \Visconsin
from headquarters in Chicago. The recreation
group is that division of the Chicago Park District
which is one of the oldest in the nation. The two
came together because each, in its field, has been
fostering square dancing for nearly two decades.
Park district classes had begun in the depression-
thirties; while \VLS used square dancing as a
stage feature of the Saturday night radio-stage show,
the VVLS National Barn Dance. Callers and danc-
ers for the stage-radio production were often “bor-
rowed" from among park district instructors and
classes, thus beginning the friendly relationship
which is flowering into the first International
Square Dance Festival. .

The two groups recognized early in their discus-
sions that such an event would be successful and

OCTOBER 1950

beneficial only if it expressed the aims and ideals
of square dance leaders over a wide area; thus, in
March, known leaders from five midwestern states
were invited to an all-day conference and discus-
sion. Here, plans were formulated, leading to the
present festival plan, which is as follows:

The various states, plus Canada and Mexico, are
being invited to send up to ten square dance sets
and one caller to the festival, not for any contest,
but to exhibit the square dancing being done in
their particular locality. This will provide not only
colorful and memorable entertainment for the
20,000 spectators, but also an opportunity for
square dancers to get acquainted with those from
other parts of the continent and to see what other
sections are doing.

This state-by-state participation is under the
direction of state chairmen, selected for their in-
terest in square dancing and for their impartial
position in their own state or region. Much of the
leadership has come from among recreation direc-
tors through their natural connection with the
activity.

Heading the entire operating committee is \Valter
Roy, recreation director of the Chicago Park Dis-
trict and for fifteen years allied with the growth of
square dancing in Chicago's parks. \Vorking with
him as vice-chairman is George C. Bigger. di-

.371

rector of the twenty-six-year-old W LS National
Barn Dance. Aiding these two is a large working
group of park district and Prairie-Farmer-Wr LS
personnel, assigned to committees according to
their training and work.

Early in the planning, the operating committee
met with Dr. Lloyd Shaw. superintendent of the
Cheyenne Mountain Public School near Colorado
Springs, but much better known the nation over
for his teaching and fostering of both the practice
and the ideals of folk dancing. “Pappy” Shaw. as
the thousands of students of his summer folk dance
institutes call him, expressed a deep interest in the
Chicago festival and consented to act as chairman
of a nationwide advisory committee.

Consultants of the original Chicago conference
were Dr. Ralph Piper, professor of physical edu-
cation at the University of Minnesota and new
president of the Minnesota Square Dance Federa-
tion : Mrs. Verna Rensvold. the recreation superin-
tendent of Kansas City, Missouri, who recently

staged a three-day square dance fiesta in her city;
F. L. McReynolds, an associate in rural youth
work and recreation at Purdue University; E. L.
Regnier, associate professor of rural soci010gy ex-
tension at the University of Illinois; Roy Johnson,
director of special services, Illinois Agricultural
Association, and, with Regnier, chiefly responsible
for the well-known Illinois Farm Sports Festivals;
and Victor Graef, president of the four-year-old
Square Dance Association of Wisconsin. These
people formed a nucleus of state chairmen for the
festival, to which a score of other leaders have been
added as they have accepted.

For many, the real highlight of the day will ‘be
a Square Dance Leaders’ Institute, to be held in
the 1,300-seat Eighth Street Theater on the morn-
ing of October twenty-eighth. The program for this
institute'will be such as to interest callers, teachers
and recreation directors as well. The institute is
Open to leaders from all over the continent, and will
end with a luncheon given by host organizations.

First International Square Dance Festival Saturday, October 28, 1950; nine a. in.,
Leaders’ Institute, Eighth Street Theater; one p. in., rehearsal; seventy-thirty 1). 1n.,
festival. Rehearsal and festival at Chicago Stadium, indoors. Address inquiries to
Walter Roy, Chicago Park District Administration Building, Chicago, Illinois.

 

California Cities Plan Meeting

Recreation apd park leaders from over 200 Cali-
fornia cities will be meeting in Los Angeles during
the week of October 22-2 5 for the annual gathering
of the League of California Cities. A working com-
mittee, composed of key persons throughout the
state—many of whom were unable to attend the
early meeting pictured here—have planned a num-
ber of important things for this year’s event.

The present outline of the program provides for
many challenging subjects affecting parks and rec-
reation in the field of planning, program, organi—
zation and finance. The general tone of both topics
and presentation will be. sounded from the angle
of practical approaches toward doing a better job
——presently and for the future. Among the topics
scheduled for daily sessions are: Commissioners
as a Mirror of Public Opinion; Subdividers Re—
sponsibility in Providing Land for Recreation;
Development of Aquatic Potentials; Budgeting
Relationship of New DevelOpment to Operation;
Recreation and Parks in Civil Defense; My Pet
Project for the Future of My Town; and others.
In addition, delegates will have an opportunity to

participate in several social activities, planned for
their own recreation.

272

 

Program Committee NIeets—Left to right, seated: F.
W. Roewekamp, city forester, Los Angeles, and presi-
dent of California Society of American Institute of
Park Executives; F. MacKenzie, superintendent of
parks, Santa Barbara, and president of Recreation
and Parks Department of League of California Cities;
G. Hjelte, general manager of Recreation and Parks
Department, Los Angeles. Standing: W. Frederickson,
superintendent of recreation, Los Angelcs; D. R.
Kruckeberg, superintendent of parks, Burbank; W.
F. Burr, superintendent of parks 'and Recreation
Department, Glendale.

RECREATION

 

N31: for the Ladies

had never felt so harassed. On his desk, the
complaints rose higher day by day; Sackville police
had ordered ten of his comic books off the news-
stands; a group in Bonnywot had publicly burned
six of his best earners; and now, out there in
Elmton, this band of militant matriarchs had pro-
claimed a list of shall-nots which, if applied to his
products, would simply eliminate them.

It seemed to the bewildered Billings that he was
writhing in a nightmare. Only yesterday his was
a respectable enterprise, catering to some millions
of children and adults who, for ten cents, liked to
follow the antics and adventures of his comic
characters. Now, overnight, his copyrighted pup-
pets had become monsters; his business was to
blame for everything from murder to atheism; and
Billings, himself, was enemy number one of so-
ciety. Nor was his mood lightened by the immedi-
ate necessity—he had to see a caller “with an idea
for a comic.”

“Send Mr. \Vhatshisname in,” he instructed his
secretary through the speaker. He would have
preferred to send Mr. Whatshisname to'kingdom
come. People with “ideas for comics” came a dime
a dozen; the ideas were invariably terrible; and
now, in the middle of a frantic morning, he had to
listen to someone who should have written to him.

His forebodings were soon confirmed. The young
man who stood before his desk, peering shyly at
Billings through large spectacles, looked awkward,
drab and almost olfensively genteel. “College pro-
fessor”—thought Billings—and planned a decid-

I OE BILLINGS, editor and owner of Zip Comics,

Reprinted through courtesy of Magazine Digm.

OCTOBER 1950

 

\Vard Crcenc

edly quick brush-off.

“Sit down.” The young man took the chair,
placed a large envelope carefully on his knees and
put his hat on the envelope. “Now what's on your
mind, youngster?”

“Well, I have a notion,” began the young man.
“I hoped—I thought—it might fit into one of your
comic books. It’s something with more appeal to
children, probably, than to older readers.”

“Let’s hear it,” said Billings.

“\Vell, the principal character is a little girl,
about ten, and the story starts when she finds her-
self in a sort of cave underground. There she meets
a number of queer creatures, birds and animals,
and so on . . .”

“Just a minute,” interrupted Billings, “you're
on the wrong track right off the bat.” He tapped
the pile of papers on the desk. “Grotesque, fan-
tastic, unnatural creatures are strictly out.”

“But why P”

Billings pointed to the “Criteria and Profile
Chart of the Elmton Committee on the Evaluation
of Comic Books” and explained: “They’ve drawn
up a series of objections in the ‘cultural area, the
moral area and area of morbid emotionality.’ And
it says right here, under morbid emotionality, that
‘grotesque, fantastic, unnatural creatures’ are ob-
jectionable.”

“1 Suppose,’ murmured the young man, “that a
dodo is a little grotesque.” He took a fresh start.
“\Vell, this little girl is wandering about under~
ground when she runs across a little bottle and
some small cakes. When she drinks out of the bot-
tle, she grows shorter, and when she nibbles a cake

!

273

,9

she grows taller . . .

“Hold it!” Billings was shaking his head.
“You’d have every woman’s club in the country on
your neck. \V e can’t permit stuff like striking
matches, setting fires, drinking out of strange bot-
tles, eating strange little cakes. Ouch! First kid
that got ptomaine, they’d stick it on you.”

“I see,” said the young man, though he looked
nonplussed. “Anyway, the child enters a woods
and finds a little house—and here I think I’ve hit
on a truly droll character.” His eyes brightened.
“It’s a cook. She’s a bit on the rough-and-ready,
and when we meet her, she is spinning pots and
saucepans at a baby.”

“What!” Billings almost shouted.

“The baby is crying—‘\Vow ! wow! wow !’-—and,
of course, the cook has a bad aim, though she does
graze the child. I’ve jotted down some verses
that might be used. -

“Speak roughly to your little boy.
And beat him when he sneezes . . .

“Beat him? Beat him?” The horror in Billings’
voice was acute. “\Vhy, that’s sadism, man! You
can’t beat anybody in comics, certainly not babies!
Imagine what the mothers in Elmton would do to
that one! Go ahead, what other little notions did
you dream up ?”

“As a matter of fact, quite a number. Now there
was one episode that takes place at a tea-party.
But I’d planned to have some animals present—a
hare and a dormouse. The hare is a March hare
and he’s mad, and there’s a mad hatter . . .”

“That’s out,” broke in Billings. “No lunacy in
comics. W'hat else?”

“A queen. She’s possessed by an execution com-
plex; goes around shouting ‘Off with their heads !’ ”

Billings smiled, in pity, not appreciation. “You
can’t do that, old man. It’s all covered here—no
death, no violence ; mustn’t even be hinted at. They
don’t like it. Say, how does this story wind up?”

“A courtroom scene.” The young man suddenly
became earnest. “It isn’t meant to be just funny.
I want it to have—well, some satiric value. The
defendant is the Knave of Hearts; he’s stolen
some tarts . . .”

“Tarts!” cried Billings.
mean.”

“Very well,” sighed the young man. “Anyway,
he’s on trial and it’s a splendid opportunity to poke
a bit of fun at the judicial system, you know. The
judge, the jury . . .”

“Oh, dear!” This time Billings was compassion-
ate. “Son, you haven’t been around much, have
you? The American Bar Association has a com-
mittee to stop just that very thing in movies, radio

,,

“Little cakes, you

274

and comics. I’m afraid your whole idea is wet !”

The young man sat back with a combative tilt
to his chin. “Maybe you’re right, but I believe that
children will like it. I know they will !”

“Sure, sure,” said Billings, “the kids eat up all
the comics. But it isn’t the kids you gotta please,
son, it’s their mamas and self-appointed mentors.”

Billings arose. “Thanks, anyway, for giving us
the opportunity . . .” ’

His caller rose, too. He hesitantly laid on Bil-
lings’ desk the large envelope that had rested on
his lap. “Well, perhaps you’d look over the whole
manuscript.”

Billings shuddered. He was very much annoyed
now: the guy might have mentioned the manu-
script in the beginning instead of wasting all this
time gabbing about it. He glanced down at the
title—Alice in LVonderland.

“Of course you 'can leave it, Mister—mister—
but I thought your name was Carroll.”

“Oh, that’s a pseudonym,” said the young man
hastily. “My real name is Dodgson, Charles L.
Dodgson.”

“Glad to have met you, Mr. Dodgson,” said Bil~
lings, shaking hands. “I’ll let you hear from me.
But, honestly, I’m afraid we can’t use your stuff.
It’s strong meat for our public! Good-bye, Mr.
Dodgson!”

  
 
   
 
    

V ,n—u-

 first Choice
for

hay Sport!

Available
Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

 

.."'-.....
I I
A

 '. my, g .W

‘  ./

1w: FINIS? IN r”: FIELD .’
unuurncnuluo conrnuv . SI om : no.

r21

I I
_.

'J

.1.

“ RECREATION

 

Recreation leaders, please note!

We Square Danced the Winter Away

OUR MICHIGAN winter had set in. Recess pe-

riods were too short to struggle with snow-
suits and boots. And, yet, there were too many
children to be crowded into the room with no defid
nite activity. So I decided to teach my first-grade
children to square dance. And dance they did!
They danced practically every recess throughout
the severe winter. And before winter was over,
every child in the room could step in and allemande
left in a style that would show up many of their
dads!

Of course, it takes work‘and patience on the part
of the teacher to accomplish all of this. Any teacher
who would rather correct papers at recess and
ignore the bedlam in the room had better skip the
rest of this article. But the teacher who likes to
teach children at recess, as well as during their
school hours, will find that the children reSpond to
singing games and square dancing with gusto.

We did not start square dancing until after
Christmas. Before that time, the youngsters had
learned all the singing games and, although there
was still a great deal of enthusiasm for this type of
fun, I felt that they had reached a maturity level
at which they decidedly needed something with
more challenge. They found it in these square
dances.

We chose only the simple dances and used rec-
ords with calls. This meant that the teacher had
to learn the calls on the records right along with
the children.

 

Mrs. Cberper, a teacher, Mug/9t [oer first-grade chil-
dren in Dimondale, Michigan, to :qaare dance.

OCTOBER 1950

Toni Cherpes

The first step was to LISTEN. And that meant
definite, intense listening. \Ve listened to our first
record two or three times to get used to the voice
and words. Then I demonstrated with a set. show-
ing the children: the lady is always on the gentle-
man’s right; this is your partner; this is your cor-
ner; this is the first couple, second couple, third
couple, fourth couple. Then began the simple forms.
\V e practiced each form separately and in parts. until
one set of children could do them. They learned
“promenade,” “swing your partner," "honor your
partner and your corner,” "allemande left," and a
“grand right and left.” On “swing your partner"
(or any swing for that matter), the children simply
joined both hands and turned. Later they did the
swing by hooking elbows. I felt that these two
forms were better for little children than the adult
position in swinging.

The form “allentande left and a grand right and
left” really demanded some teaching. But I re-
called that some great educator had once said that
you can teach anybody anything (if he has any
mental ability at all) provided that you break it
down into small enough parts, and practice each
part until it is understood before you go on to the
next step. I found that this philoSOphy applied
perfectly to teaching this form. and here is how I
taught it. \V e had our set. I said: "Now turn and
face your corner. Put out your left hand to your
corner. Turn the corner lady. Now wait." Then
I would check every couple to see that everyone
had that much right. If not. we would do it again
and again, until finally everyone did have that
much. Then we would go on. “Now come back

2/5

and face your partner. Give him your right hand.
Now stop.” Then I would check again. Or if
somebody was in trouble before that, we would
stop. To continue: “Now, walk ahead and meet
the next person and give him your left hand. Next
right. Next left. Right. Left. All around until
you meet your partner.” \Ve did this over and
over. first without music, until the children had
the idea established in their minds. Then we used
music.

After learning basic forms, we started with the
records and followed them through, stepping the
music to explain and listen carefully to the caller,
whenever necessary. It was not long before one
set of children could do a whole dance. Then we
started changing the groups of children. We would
enter a new child in the set and he would learn
with a partner who already knew how to follow the
calls. This continual addition of children made it
necessary to form a new set and, before long, we
had two sets dancing at the same time. Later,
when almost everyone was dancing, we had an-
other set at the back of the room. This took care
of activity for twenty-four children at one time, so
that each one had a turn during recess if he wanted
to dance.

The records which we used were “Buffalo Boy,”
“Dive for the Oyster,” “First Two Ladies Cross
Over,” and “Red River Valley,” because we had
access to them. Actually, any other simple ones
would do just as well.

Another which we did, but for which we had no
music, was the “Grapevine Twist.” We all sang
the following chant while the set breathlessly did
the forms:

“First couple lead to the right,
Around that lady with a grapevine twist.
Go back to the center with a whoa, haw, gee,
And around that gent whom you did not see.”

Circle four and on to the next.
Repeat verse, circle six, and on to the next.
Repeat verse and circle eight.

This was repeated with the second, third and
fourth couples being the leaders in turn, as long
as they still had breath in them._ It was a strenuous
dance, and we usually did it at the very last.

Was it worth the work involved in the teaching?
Definitely! These boys and girls had just as much
pep and energy as you will find, and the dancing
gave them an acceptable outlet for their energy in
a crowded schoolroom situation. Square dancing
is no sissy stuff. Also, it taught them manners.
To watch these youngsters actually bow and curtsey
would warm the cockles of your heart!

276

NE‘V ALL-ADI Ell] CAN

Picnic Grill

if“ . I
wuunmnewm w-
wwmmmggaw
f';mmwwm a
Adammh  15:39}; _ I

 

(PATENTS PENDING)

It’s tops in grills! Positive six-way
draft control provides faster, easier
fire kindling, saves fuel, guarantees
tenderer, juicier charcoaled steaks,
chops and barbecues. American’s
many plus-features assure perfect
lifetime performance. Grills, cooks,

bakes. Shipped fully assembled.

STATIONARY PORTABLE
Weight 140 lbs. Weight 160 lbs.
COM PLETE COM PLETE

$321!! $395.

Order Your All-American Grill TODAY!

AMERICAN

PLiu’Gnoan DEVICE co.
ANDEBSON, INDIANA

World’s Largest Manufacturers of Fine
Playground & Swimming Pool Equipment

RECREATION

 

This is the first in a series of articles on community
recreation centers—from house/seeping to program.

NFORTUNATELY, a look at the outside of the
recreation center building is the only contact

that many people have with community recreation.
From this, they form very definite opinions of the
leaders, the participants and the entire recreation
program.

It is safe to say then that the outward appear-
ance of the building is truly one of the program’s
important publicity agents. How good a job does
your building do in “selling” itself to the commu-
nity?

Be honest. Is it so drab, dull and even dirty
that hundreds of people pass it by every day without

A NEW “OUT” LOOK

Mildred Scanlon

giving it a second glance—let alone ever experi-
encing any great desire to enter it and find out
what goes on inside? Or is yours a building with
personality—an eye-catching, interest-compelling,
bright little spot that refuses to be ignored, but
holds up its head with the best of the community,
smiles gaily', and makes people want to get to know
it better?

If you’re not sure, just look at it with a critical
eye when you approach it today. Ask yourself:

I. Is it CLEAN?

What about the surroundings? No papers, fruit
peelings or other refuse about? Good! Either you
have a well-trained janitor who is taking his re-
sponsibilities seriously and has done the necessary
cleaning up, or you have instilled a feeling of pride
and ownership in the people who use the building.
Probably a little of both. (That refuse container
you had set out the other day was a pretty smart
idea.)

\Vhat about the windows? Do they sparkle and
gleam in the sun or are they “tattletale” gray?
Better have a talk with the janitor—that’s his de-
partment even though he may need a bit of remind-

Mildred Seanlon is a leaders/sip training specialist
on the steal?t of the National Recreation Association.

OCTOBEBj'IQSU

ing or a pound of prodding. a.» tlu- til-ac may in;

2. Is it ATTRACTIVE?

You defy anyone to make that building look at—
tractive? Now wait a minute! Had you thought
about window boxes? The older boys could can-
vas the town for wooden boxes, and you do have
hammers and nails in the crafts shop, don't you?
Why not build those window boxes right there in
the center? The garden club or the children's par-
ents and friends would probably be glad to supply
“slips.” These can be “rooting” while the boxes
are being made! During the winter months, these

 

can be planted and used inside to beautify the in-
side of the club, while pine branches with red ber-
ries brighten the exterior.

Your community has grass seed, small trees,
shrubs and flowers for other municipal buildings.
Maybe they just never thought of you. \Vhy not
approach the proper authorities?

For something really novel, you might try locat-
ing some old tent canvas. Sometimes Scout troops
have some that they’d be glad to let you have. It
takes a steady hand, good brushes and lots of paint,
but brightly-striped little awnings over each win-
dow certainly give an "air" to any place. Don’t
worry about making any practical use of these:
they are strictly ornamental! But do choose your
colors wisely. Remember that the eye-catching
colors are red, yellow and orange. Their respective
complements are green, purple and blue. Hence.
green window boxes and red-striped awnings can

QUESTION BOX —

Community Center Housekeeping
What do you do to make your community center

especially attractive? Hamelilte? Functional?

An occasional question will be asked in RECIE-
ATION. Answers from. 300 to l.500 words are
invited. Some will be published in the magazine.

 

"3""

on"

make very attractive “frames” for your windows.
And speaking of windows—it is through them
that we get a little glimpse of what the place is like
inside. Do they reveal pretty, gay, well-hung cur-
tains? \Vhat’s on the window sill? Plants, flowers,

books, attractive objects made in the crafts shop? .

Your window sills could become a spot where only
the latest of your crafts shop projects are displayed.
Take just a few minutes some night to step outside
and see yourself—~because your building is cer-
tainly a reflection of yourself—as others see you.

Let your front entrance speak for itself. 'Dis-
play the name of the club and hours of operation.
Have the entrance brightly illuminated. Good light-
ing, besides being a safety precaution, is also one
of the cheapest forms of advertising.

You can interpret the attitude of the community
toward your center by analyzing your own feeling
for it.

How do you feel when you approach this place?
Happy to be going there, pleased with the effect it
creates? Are you proud to have your friends de-
liver you to your front door; do you have them
drive down the street heading right towards the
center so that they can look at it longer and get
the full effect? Do you feel a little thrill every time
you turn that corner and see the building—or do
you hate the very sight of the place? Do you try
to keep your friends from seeing this unattractive
place, where you work? Are you ashamed of its
appearance? Depressed every‘time you come near
it? Reluctant to enter?

Then something’s wrong! Maybe you need a
new "out" look! 

 

American Education Week

The thirtieth observance of American Educa—
tion Week will be held November 5 to II this year
under the title “Government Of, By and For the
People.” It will be dramatized in thousands of
communities and schools throughout the country.
Education will be featured by the press, radio, tele-
vision and motion pictures during this period. Be-
cause recreation ties in with education as closely as
it does, and vice versa, recreation directors should
be working on ways of cooperating with, or sup-
plementing, school or community programs. Good
recreation, as we all know, is education for de—
mocracy, and this fact might well be our theme
song for such Observances. This week, too, might
become a springboard for clOser cooperation be—
tween the recreation department and the local

schools for a better over-all, year-round commu-
nity recreation job.

278

 

With the Stars . . .

With the stars of sports, modern fea-
tures of construction in the equip-
ment they use are of the utmost im-
portance. That’s why so many of
them use and recommend Wilson.

The famous Wilson Advisory Staff,

‘ whose members help design, 1test

and use Wilson equipment is another
reason why so many outstanding
sports stars prefer Wilson. Golf
champions Sam Snead, Cary Mid-
dlecoff, Lloyd Mangrum, Gene Sara-
zen, Patty Berg and Babe Didrikson
—tennis champions Jack Kramer,
Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and Alice
Marble—diamond stars Ted Wil-
liams and Bob Feller— gridiron head-
liners Johnny Lujack, Charlie Trippi
and Paul Christman are among the
Stars who make up this great staff of
experts. Play the equipment of charm-
pions—Wilson—and you can be sure
yOu’re playing equipment that can-
not be surpassed.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO., INC.

Brunch offices in New York, San Francisco
and other principal cities

(A subsidiary of Wilson 6; 03., inc.)

 113W

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

RECREATION

 basketball

backstops
to “fit YOUR need

 
    

  

Whatever your individual basketball
backstop installation problem, Porter
has the answer. You see, Porter has been
offlcial purveyor of basketball backsmp
equipment to the nation’s schools, uni-
versities and clubs for years. That’s wh

so many coaches, school Superinten -
ents and others who buy and specify
- _ backstops will readil say, "Yes, Porter
"ii v  ~  is headquarters for basZetball backstops.”

-   And Porter’s engineering service is
yours for the asking . . . to recommend,
without charge or obligation, the effi-
cient, economical way to install basket-
ball backstops in your gymnasium or
Stadium . . . But don’t wait until the last
moment—-until you are ready to use the
court! Plan ahead—allow sufficient time
for shipping and installation. \Vrite—
now—deseribing your problem.

     
 
   
   
      
    
     
      
 
   
     
      
 
   
 
 

FAN-SHAPED BANKS—Porter can ship
immediately famous Porter all-steel fan-

shaped basketball banks.

um! 12“ hich ll' Ml 21H! I: M
stallatlu with mqu and mm II mm

  
     
    

   
   
 
 
 

   
 

Hillel 212-2 wall-hated
tm it simple «sign

  

I‘M-II 221i "lit-ll I:
kind In talc“) It It“

  
 

A neat, rigid Porter installation, meeting a condition

, _ ' ll
that calls for extended wall bracmg- Porler bOCk “.lmmuau  
8'1 -

 
    

stops not only perform well, but look well. .mutnmm.‘

i‘

THE .l. E. CORPORATION
__ ortAwA- utmms

MANUFAUURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

 

* CLIMBING
Exclusive MAKERS or me WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM “RUCTURE

Rea. U. 5. Pat. OR.

OCTOBER 1950 ll ' '

A private agency program applicable

to other recreation groups

MEET THE MUSIC MASTERS

Herman J. Rosenthal

ADIO PROGRAMS of exceptional musical merit
R and superb concerts made available in com-
munities throughout the nation have created a
desire, on the part of many, for better musical un-
derstanding. As a result, courses in musical enoy-
ment have been introduced into schools, colleges
and social centers thoughout the country.

One such course was recently conducted at the
YWCA in Troy, New York, for a period of eight
weeks. The group met one evening a week for a
two—hour period.

The YWCA executive director, the director of
the young adult department and I, after a period of
discussion, agreed on the desirability of offering a
“Meet the Music Masters” group. Announcements
were sent to area school principals, colleges, public
libraries, industrial plants and business offices. In

addition, news'stories and “ads” were inserted in ,,

the local paper. The response was favorable and
we were ready for our first session.

Class members represented a cross section of
business and professional men and women. Some
had taken appreciation courses in school and col-
lege and desired a refresher course; others were
taking a musical enjoyment series for the first time.

Because of the great interest in the symphony
orchestra, we chose this medium as our starting
point. Pictures were shown of the instruments
used in the four sections of the symphony and rec-
ords were played to illustrate the characteristic
tone qualities of the string, wood, wind, brass and
percussion instruments. We concluded the first
evening by listening to Liszt’s “Second Hungarian
Rhapsody” and “The First Movement from Bee-
thoven’s Fifth Symphony.” n

At this time,‘an announcement appeared in the

HI:-

 

Autbor i: a mmz'cz'cm, manic teacher and lecturer.

280

   

\

local papers about a series of chamber mustc con-
certs that were to be offered at the Emma Willard
School in Troy. Since many of the group planned
to attend, they asked if we could have an evening
of chamber music prior to the first concert. Selec-
tions from the trios and quartets of Haydn, Bee-
thoven, Mendelssohn and Brahms were played, and
class members soon discovered great beauty in this
much-neglected field of music. They learned that
it was written to be played in salons, in distinction
from music primarily intended for church, theatre
and concert hall.

Our third program was to be presented on Hal-
loween night, so it seemed most appropriate to in-
troduce “Dance Macabre” by Saint-Saens and other
program music. It became apparent that program
music told a story in sound. Other numbers played
were “Don Juan” and “Till Eulenspiegel” by
Richard Strauss, “Egmont” and “Leonore Over-
tures” by Beethoven, “1812 Overture” by Tschai—
kovsky, “Sor‘cerer’s Apprentice” by Dukas and
“Les Preludes” by Liszt. A lively discussion re-
sulted on the relative musical value of program
versus absolute music.

In observance of the 100th anniversary of the
death of Chopin, our fourth evening was dedicated
to the great Polish composer and patriot. Salient
facts concerning his life were noted, and recordings
of his preludes, nocturnes, waltzes, ballads, ‘scherzi
and concertos were played.

Our fifth evening was devoted to “Music of the
Faiths.” Traditional melodies of the synagogue

' RECREATION

were played, and the role of music in the religious
service was discussed. We then spoke of the sig-
nificant part played by the church in preserving
the melodies of the synagogue. Continuing, we
traced the development of music in the church and
the important musical contributions of the monks.
Compositiéns by Palestrina and Gregorian chants
were played, and our discussion closed with a
cursory survey of the great Protestant church
music and composers—Bach, Handel and Haydn.

The next meeting of the group coincided with
the opening of the 1949-50 Metropolitan Opera
season, so we. spent “An Evening at the Opera.”
A brief presentation was made on the birth of
opera in Italy in the year 1600. The relative im-
portance of acting, scenery and music was noted,
and excerpts were played from “Carmen,” “Faust,”
“Pagliacci,” and “Der Rosenkavalier.”

An interesting discussion arose on whether opera
is enjoyed more when it is presented in the original
tongue rather than in English. Class members
voted in favor of the former and made the follow-
ing specific recommendations: (I) to become fa-
miliar with the story of the opera;  to play or
have someone play the leading arias from the opera.
\V e also devoted some time to the oratorio and

Everything Required by
BEGINNERS . . .

ADVANCED HOBBYISTS . . .
PROFESSIONAL CRAFTSMEN

Crafts Instructors who depend upon Larson Leather-
craft headquarters for supplies, tools and instruc-
tion manuals have learned by experience that they
have solved their three big problems of Variety.
Quality and Delivery.

Our stock of leathercraft kits, tools. supplies, mod-
erate priced tooling leather and top quality calf-
skins is the most complete in America. ranging from
beginners' kits of ready-cut projects requiring no
experience or tools. to materials and equipment to
meet the needs of the most exacting advanced
hobbyist and profession craftsman. We handle only
the best quality. and make prompt shipments. in
most cases the same day your order is received.

Send today for FREE 24-page illustrated catalog of
materials and instructions for making Link Belts,
Moccasins. Billfolds, Camp Purses. Comb Cases. Key
Cases. Riding Crops. Gloves, Toy Animals and other
items. Complete line of supplies and tools included.

Write Today for Free Catalog

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

DEPARTMENT 307
820 So. Tripp Ave... Chicago 24, III.

OCTOBER 1950

cantata. lispetially why-ge- r' t -n ‘u ' v~l- ' -r
"The Elijah." ".St. I’aul." ' l u ‘qu "ml.
N0. 78" and the "Ii \IiiuJ .' [an 0.. ‘1?" l'

“The ('oncertu" “as tilt' ' iIJ'  nut 12m“
meeting. The “lib \linur Vial.“ ( wiuu'w and ‘ v-
“.D Major \riniill ( (nift‘I‘ttf wt't‘t 'i'i’t “WWI I“ aul
dition, excerpts were played from It: I int-g L'ir'
Rachmaninoi Cullllumllihll: 111 III 3 mm  w-
Xlendelssohn, Brahms anrl Wirnian «L1 .l- .1" 
certos.

()ur eighth and WallCllltllllg «t'vihl‘ -1a- igw
devoted to the symphony \\ t- ~1arml iit'c t In "It
Haydn numbers and IJI‘UgI't‘hnt’ti throng}- Ilu- “'11.:
modern work of Shustakuvitc‘i. "The :r-ui], a

‘ IV.‘ 1‘ u“

most enthusiastic about the aympht 4111K: :11 .H "a
pressed a desire to hear more: great nia-nr; iii't v.—

 

We’ll Be Seeing You at the

MIDCENTU RY
NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

October 2-6

Cleveland, Ohio

 

 

It: every field ‘0! span in Pnoies
sionol . Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal end lndusirioi Recreation.
MacGregor-Goldsm’il- Sports
Equipment is recognized as 0 ML
marl of quality and unvoryf‘ng
performance.

 

Feather Fun *
BROOKS CARPENTER

Feather fun is an interesting art project and
requires little equipment: plain paper; folded con-
struction paper; a piece of ordinary window screen,
six by six inches; an old toothbrush; water colors
(powered tempora paints are best if available, and
if not, one may use ordinary water colors with a
minimum of water) ; common pins; white library
paste; pheasant feathers; and a picture frame.

First, make the background. Take a sheet of
, paper, fold it in the middle, and cut a pattern of a
vase. Then, pin the vase to the colored construc-
tion paper and spatter it with water colors by using
the screen and toothbrush.

Second, prepare the feathers for pasting on the
background to form the flowers. Pull the feathers
from the skin and cut off the lower part, thus
forming a flower petal. The size of the petals
regulates the size of the flower. Keep the flower
about the size of a silver dollar. The long feathers
on the wings and underneath the pheasant may be
pasted on first as a background for the flower.

Next, form the flower from the petals which
have been previously cut. Eight of the feather
petals are required to make one flower. Take four
and paste them so that they are opposite each other,
the tips just touching in the center.

Then take the other four and paste them so that
they fill the remaining four spaces, also with the
tips touching in the center. Now, one flower is
complete. Four or five flowers so constructed are
sufficient, providing that they are placed in the
paper vase so that their arrangement is balanced.

 

' (Reprinted from NBA Journal)

The Ins and Outs

A dramatic sketch, of twenty minutes duration,
for and about teen-agers, has been prepared by the
American Theatre Wing for the New York Com-
mittee on Mental Hygiene of the State Charities
Aid Association. It reveals the relationships of
the “Ins”——those who belong to a group—with an
“Out”——who tries to belong, but is excluded. A
discussion guide for teachers and group leaders ac-
companies the sketch. Copies are sold in packets
at one dollar and two dollars. For further infor—
mation, write to the National Committee for Men-
tal Hygiene, 1790 Broadway, New York 19.

Winter’s Coming—Brrl

“No Sissies!” is the motto of the latest club to
be formed among the employees of the Firestone
Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio. The

282

 

hardy members of this organization, which is known
as “The Polar Bear Hikers Breakfast Club,” gather
at the Firestone Country Club every Sunday morn—
ing at nine o’clock. Weather permitting, they play
a round of golf. In the event of rain, snow, sleet
or any other inclemency of the elements, they hike
for an hour, returning to the club for a breakfast
of ham and eggs or hot cakes and maple syrup.
This program is continued until early in April,
when the Polar Bears hibernate until the following
winter brings weather sufficiently unpleasant to
challenge their endurance. Membership 'in the club
is free——the only charge being for breakfast.

Recreation Symphony

A composer—Harold Orlob—has written a sym‘
phony called “Recreation,” which was introduced
at Carnegie Hall in 1948. He has incorporated
lyrics°to the principal melodies in the score that
can be sung by tenor, baritone and female voices.
These fall under the titles “Summer,” “Autumn,”
“Winter,” “Spring,” and are about the recreation
pursuits of each season. The score and parts are
available to any orchestra which 'might like to try
them. Why not write to Mr. Orlob at the Milton
Music Company, 1564 Broadway, for further in-
formation?

Art Films

“A Guide to Art Films,” compiled for M agazine
of Art by Dorothy B. Gilbert and Helen M. Franc,
has recently been published by the American Fed-
eration of Arts, Washington 6, D. C. A first issue
was published in 1949 and quickly sold out. The
guide lists 353 American and foreign films on art
and on crafts, sells for seventy-five cents per copy,
or sixty-five cents if remittance accompanies order.

RECREATION

William Parkyn Jackson

 

ILLIAM PARKYN JACKSON died on June 16th
W in Asheville, North Carolina, at the age of
seventy—seven, leaving a host of recreation friends
from coast to coast. A Canadian by birth, he had
prepared himself for the ministry, but in the early
days of the first World War, left his rural parish
in Vermont to join the staff of War Camp Com-
munity Service. There followed twenty—one years
of devoted, friendly, unselfish service in the recrea-
tion field. Throughout the war, he served with dis-
tinction as community organizer and, later, under
the program of Community Service, Incorporated,
promoted community recreation in several states.
A number of important cities owe to him the
soundness of their fundamental organization for
public recreation. For several years in the twenties,
he served as district representative for the Na-
tional Recreation Association.

From the early days of his ministry and all
through his years of recreation service, William
Jackson was especially devoted to young people.
His own youthful spirit was retained throughout
his life. Just as in°the ministry his major interest
- was the small community and the rural areas, so in
his recreation work he was happiest when serving
rural young people. Beginning in 1929, he was one
of a team of several association 'workers who con-
ducted innumerable recreation leadership training
courses in the rural areas of nearly every state in
the Union. He was warm and down-to—earth in
his approach and his natural understanding of the
problems and joys of rural life endeared him to the
leaders taking his courses. Many of the ideas he
used in his teaching were original and were pre-
sented with a freshness and enthusiasm that were
contagious. Given such simple equipment as a
newspaper and a pair of scissors, he could enter-
tain by the hour a small child or a large group of
various ages, and end up by having them call for
more. He was always “wanted back” by groups
because he was a good recreation teacher and be-
cause he was \Vill Jackson. The United States

OCTOBER 1950

 

Department of Agriculture, Extension Service, still
attests to the great value of this major leadership
training project, most of which was conducted with
the enthusiastic cooperation of the Department of
Agriculture.

Retiring from the recreation field several years
ago, Mr. Jackson was not content to be idle, and
when he found a church that needed help, he again
took up work in the ministry. Along with his
ministerial duties in these later years, he was able
to devote a surprising amount of his time and
energies to recreation. He was greatly beloved by
the people he served and, at the time of his death,
was Minister Emeritus of the First Congrega-
tional Church in Asheville.

One poem, which he liked to quote in honoring
others, fits him so well:

Here was a man whose heart was good
Who walked with men and understood.
His was a voice that spoke to cheer
And fell like music on the ear.

His was a smile men loved to see

His was a hand that asked no fee

For friendliness, or kindness done.
And now that he has journeyed on
His is a fame that never ends

And leaves behind uncounted friends.

AGAIN IN I950-’SI

dmericaj gineét
Athletic Squipment

is built by
®

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25th St.
Los Angeles ll, Calif.

     
   
 

Be sure to visit our BOOTH number 20

at the show . . . . and if you can’t

attend . . . . Please

Write for our FREE
CATALOG
of HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES

 

RECREATION WITHOUT MOVIES
Is Like Football Without a Gridiron . . .

For a well-balanced recreation program, Motion Pictures
are a “Must”!

We have outstanding films of all types:
ENTERTAINMENT
SPORTS
ADVENTURE
NATURE STUDY
SOCIAL HYGIENE
HOME ECONOMICS
HEALTH AND SAFETY

to name only a few.

NOTE: The rental rates on most of our top-
grade feature films have been reduced to

bring them within reach of even the small-
est recreation budget.

 

Send today“ for our free,
1950-51 Catalog of

SELECTED MOTION PICTURES

containing

1400 Films— 100 FREE!
Many in Full Color!

ASSOCIATION FILMSé

NEW YORK l9 (RICAGO 3
35 West 45th St. 206 So. Michigan Ave.

SAN FRANCIS“) 2 DALLAS I
35! Turk St. I915 Live Oak St.

 

284

  

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

Camping Magazine, May 1950

How to Get More from Your Craft Programs,
Eleanor Tinsley.

We Wanted to Decentralize and We Did, Marion
Marshall and Margaret M. Robertson.

New ACA Standards.

Further Reports from St. Louis Convention.

Interfaith, International and Intercultural Camping,
George Jonas.

Good Program Can Put Tennis Interest on the Up-
Grade! T. E. Bennett.

NEA Journal, May 1950
Toward Sane Athletic Programs, John K. Archer.
Making Room for the Arts, Lloyd L. Waite.

Summer School Camping at a Blimp Base, Jim
\Veakley and J. T. Bleier.

Learning by Horsteling, Elizabeth L. Wadsworth.

Parks and Recreation, May 1950

Legal Responsibilities and Liabilities, William H.
Freeburg.

Journal of the American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, May 1950
Interschool Competition in the Elementary School

“A Committee Report.

Intramurals in the Junior High School, James H.
Watkins.

“All Is Not Old,” Ruth Strode.

The School Camprur-Outdoor Classroom, Truda
T. Weil.
How We Do It.

Scholastic Coach, May 1950
Flicker Ball, Paul C. Sisco.

Park Maintenance, May 1950
Boating Bonanza, A. R. McPherson.
Boone’s (Iowa) Lodge and Shelterhou'se.

Beach and Pool, May 1950
Shamrock Hotel Pool.
The Modern Swimming Pool—A Symposium.
Modern Testing Equipment, F. R. McCrumb.

Public Management, May 1950
What Next for American Cities? Luther Gulick.

Trends in Municipal Personnel Practices, David S.
Arnold.

Parents’ Magazine, June 1950
Help Your Children Enjoy the Arts, Rhoda W.
Bacmeister.

Nation’s Schools, June 1950

Camping Education Can Vitalize the Entire School
Program, John S. Carroll.

Montana Community Transforms Six City Blocks
into Elementary and Junior High School Build—
ings and Playiields, Robert B. Farnsworth and A.
V. McIver. -

Parks and Recreation, June 1950
Park Users, Junior Grade, H. Raymond Gregg.
Teachers in Jeans, Muriel Beuschlein and Dr. James
M. Sanders. r
Something’s Cooking in Cook County, Robert Mann.
Wading Pools of Connecticut, J. Henry L. Giles.
Newark’s Water Program, William J. Coleman.

Journal of the American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, June 1950
Suggested Code of Ethics for Teachers of Physical
Education—~A Committee Report.
The College Goes into the Community, Jackson M.
Anderson. 
Bringing Archery Indoors, Myrtle K. Muller.

Camping Magazine, June 1950
A Philosophy of Camping, Harry E. Brown.
Camp Telescope Project, Frank A. Myers.
Food Service Comparison Chart, Harold L. Noakes.
Tuition Refund Protection, Jay Levenson, Jr.

Your Camp’s Overnight Hikes, R. T. De Witt.

RECREATION

[DUISVILLE SLUGGEH BATS

FIRST m SOFTBALL As lN BASEBALL

The 1950 Louisville Slugger line of
nineteen softball bat models meets
the requirements of every softball
player.

Full color catalogs of 1950 Louisville Slugger
Bats for Softball and Baseball, and the 1950
Louisville Grand Slam Golf catalog will be
sent free on request. Address Dept. R.

See Us at the
National Recreation Congress in Cleveland

 

 ‘_ ..  :z  “as J S QQwLLESWir

4 _ - .. —-— 4’
1% QllllL TY BlllLl' Ill HEM on: mmnanmsm
“ 3  _,_  V. , ‘ . — _ .w _ - (a -"" 

RECREATION‘LEADERS!

Are you familiar with the
services and publications
of the

American Association for Health,
Physical Education, 8. Recreation?

JOIN 18,000 PROFESSIONAL

RECREATION
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH

COLLEAGUES

Write for

Brochure describing association and
Order blank of special publications

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, AND RECREATION

1201 16th Street, N.W. thhington 6, D. c.

Pitching
Horseshoe

csssomes

THE MOST COMPLETE LINE
Stake Holders

and Court Boxes

Diamond Official Stake Hold-
ers and Diamond Court Boxes
are easy to install and stay
put when they are once in
the ground. Stand up under
constant use. Diamond Pitch-
ing Horseshoes are sold by

most sporting goods deal-
ers throughout the country.

Stakes and
Ready-Made Courts

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4616 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

286

 

Books Received

 

Best Sports Stories 1950, edited by Irving T. Marsh
and Edward Ehre. E. P. Dutton and Company, In-
corporated, New York. $3.00.

Bijou, the Little Bear, Pierre Amiot. Coward-McCann,
Incorporated, New York. $1.75.

“But You Don’t Understand,” Frances Bruce Strain.

$Appleton-Century-Crofts, Incorporated, New York.
3.00.

Children’s Games Throughout the Year, Leslie Daiken.
B. T. Batsford, Limited, New York. $4.00.

Child’s First Book of Bible Stories, A, Ann Day
Steeple. Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Educator’s Guide to Free Slidelilms, Second Annual
Edition 1950. Educators Progress Service, Randolph,
Wisconsin. "

Eighty Play Ideas, Caroline Horowitz. Hart Publish-
ing Company, New York. $1.25.

Fifty Nifty Crossword Puzzles, edited by Tom B.
Leonard. Hart Publishing Company, New York.

$1.25.

Fun After Sixty. Chicago Recreation Commission,
Chicago. -

High Times, Nellie Zetta Thompson. E. P. Dutton-
and Company, Incorporated, New York. $2.50.

Hot Rod, Henry Gregor Felsen. E. P. Dutton and
Company, Incorporated, New York. $2.00.

How to Organize Your Guidance Program, Edgar L.
Harden. Science Research Associates, Incorporated,
Chicago. $1.50. Twenty per cent discount on orders
of 15 or more.

Illustrated Game Manual, Frank H. Geri. Ernie Rose,
Seattle, Washington. $3.50.

Inland Waterway Guide, 1951. Marina, Publishing
House, Wilmington, North Carolina.

Kit on How to Plan a Home Playground, A. The
Recreation Division, Canadian Welfare Council, Ot-
tawa, Canada. $.50.

Oxford Junior Encyclopaedia, Volume IXmRecreation.
Oxford University Press, New York. $8.50.

Paganini, Master of Strings, Opal Wheeler. E. P. Dut-
ton and Company, Incorporated, New York. $2.75.

Physical Education Activities for the Elementary
School, Jeannette Smalley. The National Press,
Millbrae, California. $2.50.

Pirates, Ships and Sailors, Kathryn and Byron Jack-
son. Simon and Schuster, New York. $2.00.

Planning, Construction and Maintenance of Playing
Fields, The, Percy White Smith. Oxford Umvers1ty
Press, New York. $6.00.

Rambling Halfback, Wilfred McCormick. G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, New York. $2.00.

Storytime Tales. Simon and Schuster, New York.
$1.00.

Theory of Camping, The, Frank L. Irwin. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $2.50.

Travel Fun Book, Frances W. Keene. The Seahorse
Press, Pelham, New York. $1.00.

Wing Scout Manual. Girl Scouts of the United States
of America, New York. $1.50.

Wonderful House, The, Margaret Wise Brown. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $.25.

You Can Make a “Stradivarius” Violin, Joseph V.
Reid. Popular Mechanics Press, Chicago. $3.50.

RECREATION

 

Small Town Renaissance

Richard Waverly Poston. Harper and Brothers,
New York. 

THIS IS a stimulating story of American democ-
racy in action, and of the part recreation can
play in democratic planning and action in the typi-
cal small American community. It is the history of
the three-year Montana Study Project, financed
by the Rockefeller Foundation, and carried on
under the auspices of the University of Montana.

The history of Montana has been largely the his-
tory of the pioneer, of the individualist. Exploita-
tion and subsequent exhaustion of natural resources
in many communities have left the state spotted
with ghost towns. Lack of opportunity for employ-
ment and satisfying living has caused large num—
bers of young people to leave the state. The study
was directed to reviving economic opportunities
and developing opportunities for living that would
hold existing pOpulation and attract new.

The method used was to stimulate local commu—
nities to study their own history, needs and re-
sources with the expectation that this would lead to
effective, self-initiated action. A carefully worked-
. out study outline and general guidance were pro—
vided by the staiic of the study. 5 mall Town Renais-
sance tells the story of several of these local proj-
ects. It is significant that recreation played an im-
portant part in practically every case cited.

Darby, fOr example, studied its history and its
problems. Wishing to bring them to the attention

of the community effectively, it chose a pageant-'

drama, “Darby Looks at Itself,” which pictured
the history of the community, its exploitation of
local resources, its present problems and ways to
meet them. One hundred twenty-five people, a fifth
of the population, were in the cast. Saloons and
movies closed for the event, and eighty per cent of
the population turned out for the performance. As
the author states: “Their show, conceived, written

and produced by themselves, dealing with the con-
temporary problems of their town, was the biggest
show in the history of Darby . . . There was a
unanimous feeling of pride, and rightly so, for in
one night Darby had advanced in community
democracy perhaps twenty years ahead of many

QCTOBER 1950

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure-time Field

other towns in America. Now they were ready for
action.”

The history of Stevensville is similar to that of
Darby. Here, too, the pageant was the agency in
uniting a community for effective action. Its story,
as told in “A Tale of the Bitter Root,” was wit—
nessed by 2,500 people. The town of Conrad in-
vited the director of recreation of Great Falls to
help plan for better recreation opportunities. The
contribution of recreation to local democratic ac-
tion is recorded also in the histories of other
communities.

Democracy still lives in the local communities
of America, and recreation is an effective agent
for cooperative and productive action. But, the
possibilities of dramatic interpretation of American
democracy have yet to be realized fully—Arthur
l/Villioms, Executive Director’s Ofiice, National
Recreation Association.

Neighbors in Action

Dr. Rachel Davis Dubois. Harper and Brothers,
New York. $3.00.

“COOPERATION AND LOVE, not conflict and strife,
are the laws of life” might be considered
the thesis of Dr. Dubois’ N eiglibors in Action. ,
Although it is extremely difficult to assume a
common set of principles in the field of community
relations, good human relationship is a community
responsibility. It is because of the awareness of
such a difficulty, and the facing of such respon-
sibilities, that Dr. Dubois has set about the de-
lineation of methods and techniques in her book. .
The way suggested in Neighbors in Action is
not (nor is it so claimed) a new way. It utilizes
the very basic principle that man fears and dis-
likes that which he does not know or understand.
It promulgates the idea that a change of viewpomt
in terms of prejudices is a personal and ind1v1dual
thing. _ .
Part I of the book concerns itself Wlth certain
techniques and experiences which a group of heter-
ogenous people used in their Journey toward a
feeling of kinship. Here, many of the conflicts——
manifested through religious, raCial, national and
social intolerance—were used as a medium through

287

which to discover that core of individual and group
personality which helps all people to recognize a
oneness of both spirit and experiences. '
The basic process by which this feeling of new
neighborliness is to be accomplished is that of the
sharing of specific cultural experiences. The points
Of likeness, rather than those of differences, are
stressed; and the manner in which such likeness
and, often, differences may form a bridge of under-
standing are worked out through program material.
The group conversation method, which is the
special technique Of the workshop of cultural
democracy, sets the stage for discussing and
demonstrating racial and ethnic ways of life ex-
perience—such as the working, living, courting,
worshipping patterns Of different peoples. Some
observations of this kind of experience include:
I) experience of one group becomes the experience
of all; 2) significant and basic desires out Of which
all human beings fashion cultural patterns are seen

to have a common source.

Part II of the book sets forth the necessary tech-
niques, the what, why and how methods, of work-
shops for cultural democracy, and states the
philosophy upon which such processes are based.
There are many suggestive points of value for the
group and recreation leader; many notable teach-
ing devices for the teacher: I) the informal and
indirect method Of approach; 2) the method Of
finding a common denomination out of which the
entire group may operate; 3) the method of in-
tegrating and correlating the every-day experiences
of people and giving them significance.

I believe that one is justified in saying that the
chief need in the field of intergroup education or
activity is that of adequately trained leadership.
Dr. Dubois, being aware of this fact, has added
a chapter on the how. Yet one doubts the possi-
bility Of lay leaders using successfully this work-
shop method if there has been no Opportunity to
study directly with the author and her staff.

For those—-—and many of us may be included
here—whose intercultural background is limited,
or whose approach to creative group activity calls
for strengthening, Neighbors in Action would
prove most helpful as study material. Whether
program material may actually be prepared from
such .study will depend largely upon the inad-
Junctrve powers of the leader and his appreciation
of this type Of approach to human living and
development—Grace Walker, Recreation Leader—
ship Training Specialist, NRA.

Games the World Around

Sarah Hunt and Ethel Cain. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $3.00.

THIS COLLECTION of 400 folk games will be
warmly received by teachers, librarians, those
who work with people Of different nations, and
particularly by those who arrange and present
folk festivals and pageants—-—even though it con-
tains no dances, music or singing games.

Most of the book is divided into sections de-
scribing contests, stunts, relays, active and quiet

288

games Of the American Indians and the peOple of
approximately thirty-five different nations.

Each of the Sections has almost full—page pen-
and-ink illustrations which contain many good
ideas for costuming and staging. The authentic
titles used for the various activities would lend an
international tone to any program on which they
appeared.

Chapters and indices, which make for better
understanding and use of materials contained in
the main body, are also included.

Games the “70er Around represents a great
deal of research and is guaranteed to save many
valuable hours for people who have hitherto
searched far and wide for materials of this nature.

Dances and Stories of the American
Indian

Bernard S. Mason. A. S. Barnes and Company,
New York. $5.00.

CAMP COUNSELORS and playground workers who
are developing the Indian theme will find this
volume of authentic Indian dances invaluable as a
source of informative and usable material.

Basic dance steps are described'in great detail
and further clarified by innumerable stick figure
drawings. The dances themselves are equally well
explained and diagrammed.

Wherever “props” are needed, complete direc—
tions for their construction are included. HOOps,
masks, drums, bells and rattles receive their share
of attention.

In the part Of the book devoted to staging the
dances, separate chapters are given to a discussion
of costumes and make-up. With the aid Of these,
and the fullvpage photographs found throughout
the book, anyone otherwise totally unacquainted
with the subject should be able to stage realistic
and impressive Indian programs and pageants.

This book will also be of inestimable worth tO
the novice in the field Of Indian affairs—Mildred
.S‘canlon, Recreation Leadership Training Special-

ist, NRA.

I.
How to Turn Ideas into Pictures

H. E. Kleinschmidt, MD. National Publicity
Council for Health and Welfare Services, In-
corporated, New York. $1.00.

THE NATIONAL PUBLICITY COUNCIL has come
out with another of its good how-to-do-it ma-
terials. This pamphlet, complete with amusing dia-
grams, was eSpecially written for workers in social
welfare, health, recreation and so on, who publish
materials Of their own, and explains how to illus—
trate ideas with pictures and to express them in
ways other than with words. Excellent resource
material for the planning of annual reports, pub-
licity material, printed programs and posters is
included. Other titles on the council’s list are:
Annual Reports—How to Plan and Write Them,
How to Make a Speech and Enjoy It, Pamphlets
That Pull, Planning Your Exhibit, The Public
Relations Committee, Radio—How, When and
Why to Use It, and li’orlaing with Newspapers.

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

(Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and local recreation departments)

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE \VALKER
Creative Recreation

October and November, 1950

National Recreation Congress
October 2-6

Hayneville, Alabama
October 16-20

Talladega, Alabama
October 23-27

Birmingham, Alabama
October 30-November 2

Elba, Alabama
November 6-10

Wetumpka, Alabama
November 13-17

Montpelier, Vermont
November 27-December 1

National Recreation Congress
October 2-6

Kansas City, Kansas
October 16-20

Colorado Springs, Colorado
October 23-27

Great Bend, Kansas
November 6-10

North Central District
November 13-24

National Recreation Congress
October 2-6

Galveston, Texas

October 9-13

Seguin, Texas
October 16-20

Amarillo, Texas
October 23-27

Wichita Falls, Texas
October 30-November 3

Tyler, Texas
November 6-10

National Recreation Congress
October 2-6

Akron, Ohio
October 9-20

Hammond, Indiana
October 23-November 2

Elkhart, Indiana
November 6-17

Springfield, Illinois
November 20-24

National Recreation Congress
October 2-6

Tampa, Florida
November 27-December 1

See footnote

Miss Hulda Coleman, Superintendent of Schools,
Lowndes County

F. L. Harwell, Superintendent of Schools

Dr. I. F. Simmons, Superintendent of Schools, Jefferson
County

K. G. Krook, Superintendent of Schools
J. R. Form'by, Superintendent of Schools, Elmore County

Mrs. A. O, Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation

See footnote

Edmun A. Ash, Director, Recreation Commission,
City Hall

Jay VerLee, Director of Recreation, Civic Auditorium

Carl Soden, Great Bend Recreation Commission

See footnote

William Schuler, Superintendent of Recreation and Parks,
Menard Community Center

George A. Lewrey, Superintendent of Recreation,
City Hall

Jack Hans, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

Raybon W. Porter, Minister of Education, First Meth-
odist Church, Tenth and Travis Streets

Robert Shelton, Director of Parks and Recreation,
City Hall

See footnote

A. E. Center, Superintendent of Recreation, 325 Locust
Street

J. N. Higgins, Director, Board of Parks and Recreation

K. Mark Cowen, Superintendent, Board of Parks and
Recreation, Municipal Building

H. Francis Shuster, Superintendent of Recreation,
City Hall

See footnote

Mrs. Margaret Hamilton, Director, City Recreation De-
partment, 710 Harrington Street

A series of four training sessions in each of the following fields will be offered at the National Recreation Con-
gress in Cleveland, Ohio, October 2-6; Arts and Crafts. Drama, Social Recreation. NRA leadership training
specialists will be in charge. Any registered delegate at the Congress may participate in this training program.

 

 

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in which

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship

of Dr. Harry G. McKown, well-known
authority on Extracurricular Activities,

e‘wrw- '—

this monthly magazine promotes the fol-

lowing interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRANIS—Current thought of leaders in tlie field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES—An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS——Help in selecting and Pstaging dramatic proddccions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS—DirectionsmTor the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES—Suggestions for financing sttident functions.
ATHLETICS—News and ideas on late developments in intraérnural and interscholastic sports.I
DEBATE—Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS—Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOlVIE ROOMS—Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS—Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS—Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS—Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT—Sound direction in the development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES—Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe Now

School “Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET, ‘ TOPEKA, KANSAS

