’
- 4
a I
(a- r _” V
' ‘  J -- . — .
, A 1
c- , -
U - \ J x
. o ’ ‘ I § . _ o!
a o ‘ I. '
- o . - . .
' t ' _ l
- - I I a '
- ‘ f
v - ‘~ \ ' F "
l , '- s’ I .r I
- I ' r

 

.Contents

 

March 1950

Recreation Within (editorial),

Howard Braucher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 557
Recreation Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 558
Take a Rabbit from the Library!

Don Dornbrook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 559

Turning Over a New Leaf (Richmond
Observes National Park and Recrea-

tion Week) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 561
Recreation and Horticulture, Elizabeth

Clarke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562
Arbor Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 564-
Recreation for Teen-Age Servicemen. . . 565
Functions and Duties of Boards—

Part I, Roy Sorenson 569

National Park and Recreation Week . . . . 572

Camping for Oldsters, James H. Woods . 573

National Music Week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
Plainlield Festival of the Arts,

Petronella Tacionis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 576
More About Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 578
Communities Are Shocked . . . . . . . . . . . 579
Safety Town . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 580
The Place of Recreation in the Total Col-

lege Curriculum . . . Part IV —Student

Program Evaluation, Dorothy Ann

Olson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 582

Plastic Canasta Tray, Frank A. Staples . . 585

“Fun for the Young,” Mary Agnes

Thompson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586

 

At Headquarters . . . Rose Jay Schwartz. 589

German Leadership Project . . . . . . . . . . 590

\

People in Recreation . . . A Leader in
Hospital Program, Paul Olsen . . . . . . 591

Index to Volume XLIII, RECREATION
Magazine, April l949-March 1950. . 598

Regular Features

Recreation News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595
Magazines and Pamphlets . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Books Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 597

Recreation Training
Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

PHOTO CREDITS—We are indebted for photographs to: Nature
Alagazine, page 559; United Service Organizations, pages 566, 567
and 568; Newark News, New Jersey, pages 576 and 577; Colum-
bus Dispatch magazine, Ohio, pages 580 and 581; Radio Station
WKY, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, page 587; Ventnro, Chicago,
Illinois, page 591.

MARCH SUN

The month of sun and wind brings kites,

‘0‘. jumping ropes, roller skates, jacks out of

re chests and closets; play takes to the ont-
‘1

10‘

of-doors!

Photo courtesy of Ewing Galloway,
New York City.

LOOKING AHEAD

April introduces an annual Playground Issue
of RECREATION; J‘Iay will carry extra pages
of summer material; June introduces a special
issue on dereloPments in state, federal and
international recreation.

RECREATION is published monthly by the National Recreation Association, formerly named Playground and Recreation Associ-
ation of America, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.; is
on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readerr’ Guide. Subscriptions $3 a year. Entered as second-class matter June 12,
1929, at the Post Office in New York, New York, under Acr of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage
provided for in Secrion 1103, ACI of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Copyrigbt 1950, by the National Recreation Anorr'ation, Incorporated
PRINTED IN THE U- S. A.

VOLUME PORN-THREE, NUMBER TWELVE

PRICE 35 CENTS

 

Recreation
MARCH 1950

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

Katmai/m Wit/[1'14

This unpublished edi-
torial of Mr. Braucher’s
ends the series appear-

ing in Volume Forty-
Three of RECREATION.

MARCH 1950

ECREATION is first of all the right and the duty of the individual.

It is a very individual matter.

No one has a right to force a man who wants to be happy to seek happiness
in one certain way not of his own choosing.

One man finds punishment in what another man enjoys.

It is not for the community to force men to enjoy themselves.

Some men are happy to be unhappy.

If a man, knowing that the rose bush has thorns, prefers not to put on gloves
and wants to tear up his hands—such is his privilege. Certain men of their own
free will choose to walk on hot coals. Only they ought to be willing to do it
where they will not make others uncomfortable.

*- l- * *

The spirit of recreation within a person counts more than anything else.

Monotony is more inside the individual than it is outside—as thousands of
persons have demonstrated in making routine life glorious.

Boredom we hear much about. Boredom depends more on what is within
than on what is without.

* * * *

Recreation lands, buildings, athletic equipment, recreation laws, ordinances,
leadership, machinery of administration there must be, and more than hereto-
fore. But no externals will sulliice except as there is the inner spirit of fun, of
playing the game.

If there is not the inner spirit of recreation in the hearts of men then no
ordinances, no legislation, no governmental machinery will put it there or will
save it.

The best recreation workers, through all that they do and through all their
material resources, try to build in the hearts of boys and girls, men and women
and in the community a deep and abiding spirit of recreation, of abundant living.

The inner habit of Ending happiness in little things wherever we can is
important. It helps if even a little of the inner joy shows outside.

Grace Moore, who recently died, carried with her to a remarkable degree
this joy of living. Characteristic was her comment the night before her death:
“It’s wonderful to live and to sing.” Such a lyric spirit, such a vibrant person-
ality makes easier beauty and elevation in all who are near.

HOWARD BRAUCHER

557

RECREATION

1  ammonia

LETTERS TO AND FROM THE EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT

To RECREATon :

“I am looking forward to the renewed inspira-
tion of your publication after about a year’s dis-
continuance. I, as many others in recreation. can«
not be without this valuable source material.”

JACK B. FELLOWS, Religious Edu-
cation Administration, The Central
Baptist Theological Seminary. Kan-
sas City, Kansas

“RECREATon is well edited and offers many
helpful suggestions to aid social clubs. \Ve have
many club facilities and social activities already
established, but we are always interested in hear-
ing about other clubs and welcome new ideas
which add to our club services and programs.”

HELEN BOGUE, Secretary,
USO-JIVB Club, Honolulu

“I cannot start this letter in any better way
than by stating that my staff and I consider REC-
REATon one of the finest and most helpful publi-
cations that can be put into a group worker’s
hands. W’ e owe RECREATon thanks for ideas and
inspirations which have guided quite a number
of our most successful programs.”

MRS. ANTOINETTE FRIED,
Headu'orker, Fuld Neighborhood
House, N era'arlz, New Jersey

“I have subscribed to RECREATION since 1936
and I frankly believe that the magazine has im-
proved tremendously in the past year and a half.
I was particularly interested in the series, ‘Ameri-
can Cities in Recreation,’ and also feel that the
cover pictures have lightened the magazine.”

TEMPLE R. JARRELL, Executive
Secretary, Recreation and Group
lVorlz Section, United Community
Services, lVashington, D. C.

558

“A few of us, in a small community adjacent to
Jacksonville, seeing the great need for social rec-
reation and playground activities, but equipped
with only the will to serve and having no idea of
how to organize or promote a recreation program,
grasped the opportunity of attending an institute
offered by the University of Florida and directed
by Mrs. Ruth Garber Ehlers of the N.R.A.

“\Ve believe you would like to know that we
feel we have gained inspiration, knowledge and self-
conhdence that will save our community at least
two years of trial and error, the actual value of
which could not be estimated.

“If more small communities would avail them-
selves of the opportunity offered by the institutes.
we would indeed be a recreation-minded nation.”

MRS. E. S. TROYER, Ninth School
District C iz'ic League, Jacksonville

To SUBSCRIBERs AND CONTRIBUTORS:

\Ve should like to point out that the above
letters, a few among many received, show that
RECREATION proves ever more helpful to workers
in a widening variety of organizations and agencies
faced with recreation problems and the planning of
recreation programs. To you, subscribers and con-
tributors, it must be heartening to know that some
small part of the nationwide recreation job, which
we all are interested in promoting, is being made
possible through your own excellent programs,
interest and contributions.

Citizens, such as those in Mrs. Troyer’s group,
could further be helped with information and sug-
gestions carried by RECREATION. \Vill you call the
magazine to the attention of any person, or group
of persons, who may be able to put it to work in
carrying out some such project?

DOROTHY DOXALDSON,
.Managing Editor, RECREATon

RECREATION

DON DORNBROOK

TAKE A RABBIT
FROM THE LIBRARY!

 

Youngsters talk over the Easter situation it
one of their favorite visitors to the schoolroc

THEY could not have been more than first-
graders. Their little faces were full of com-
passion and anxiety as they faced the veterinarian.

The boy was trying hard to keep a firm, yet
gentle, hold on the baby robin feebly fluttering in
his cupped hands. The girl’s fat little fingers had
an even firmer hold on a couple of pennies.

“Are you the bird doctor?” asked the boy.

“I guess you might call me that,” said the veteri-
narian. “I’ve often been called a horse doctor.
What can I do for you?”

“We’re all right; it’s this robin,” replied the
boy, holding out his' hands. “We found him in
Margie’s back yard. He hurt his wing. He can’t
fly and . . .” _

“And if you can fix him, we’ll pay you,’
rupted the girl. “I got two cents!”

Jimmy gave Margie that withering look men
reserve for the female of the species. “Not yet,
Margie,” he admonished. “He ain’t done nothing
yet!”

The veterinarian bent down and examined the
robin. Its little heart pounded furiously against
his palm. One wing was broken.

“Well . . .?” Jimmy demanded.

“I can fix him all right,” said the doctor. “Tell
you what—you leave him here and when he’s well
enough to fly again, I’ll turn him loose.”

“Will this be enough?” said the girl, trying to
thrust her pennies into the veterinarian’s hand.

“Oh, we don’t charge anything to fix robins,”
he explained.

1

inter-

MARCH 1950

“Gee, thanks,” said the boy. His face broke
into a smile as warm as the sun after.an April
shower.

After they had gone, the vet turned to me and
said: “Ever since the Humane Society started a
pet library a couple of years ago, every vet in town
has been pestered by kids bringing in injured birds
and animals. A few years ago those kids would
have pulled that robin’s wing off. At least children
are more humane than they used to be. That’s
why I always say I can fix their little patients—
even if I know I’ll have to put ’em to sleep, like
that robin.”

The Wisconsin Humane Society live-animal
library in Milwaukee is the only one of its kind
in the nation. When ’a teacher in any of Milwau-
kee County’s 283 public, private or parochial
grade schools wants her pupils to learn about
animals at first hand, she just calls up the pet
library and orders some hamsters, guinea pigs,
white mice, white rats, hooded rats, turtles,
canaries, goldfish, tropical fish, or rabbits. There’s
no charge. It’s as easy as drawing out a reference
book.

The Humane Society provides the cage and
enough dry feed to last two weeks. At the end of
that time, the teacher may have the loan renewed.
With her pet 'she receives a history of the animal,
together with instructions for its care, the care of

its cage, and a feeding schedule.
From 100 to 125 animals are available for with-
drawal at all times, and teachers are free to make

559

their own selections. Canaries cannot be taken
out in winter—they catch pneumonia too easily—
and the parrot never, because he talks too much
and sets a bad classroom example.

The pet library is the brain-child of Gustave P.
Utke, who became executive vice—president in Jan-
uary, 1945. Came spring and a teacher asked to
borrow a rabbit for Easter. Mr. Utke obliged.
Then he got to thinking that perhaps other
teachers might like to borrow pets for study proj-
ects. Why not a pet library from which all teachers
in the city could withdraw live animals just as they
take out library books?

The program was begun on a trial basis in all
city public schools in the fall of 1945. It proved
such an immediate hit that it was expanded to all
public, private, and parochial schools of the county
the following fall. , Since then, Utke estimates,
some I 5,000 to 20,000 school children have learned
how to handle animals in his pet project.

How well they have learned to handle them is
reflected in the society’s annual reports. In 1945
there were 200 complaints of cruelty to animals by
children. The next year the total had dropped to
fifty-two. Last year it was a mere four.

“It’s safe to conclude,” adds Mr. Utke, “that
children who are kind to animals will be more
considerate towards their fellow men when they
become adults.”

Children, of course, love the pet library. There
is so much competition among them for the privi-
leges of caring for the classroom pets that teachers
award this honor each day to the pupil who has
been best behaved the day before.

Each month the society provides the schools
with 74,000 copies of Animal Life, a little news—
paper published by the Humane Society of Colum-
bus, Ohio. Because Milwaukee is the largest
group subscriber—it goes to every child in the
first through sixth grades—there is a special \Vis-
consin edition, in which at least one column is
devoted to local news. This may contain the latest
animal antics of Oswald, the big black rabbit;
Rocky and Rolly Raccoon; Mickey and Minnie,
the waltzing mice; or Pete, the Parrot—all deni-
zens of the pet library.

Pupils take the newspaper home and find it a
big help in bringing up parents. Fathers and
mothers, upon reading the “Did You Know?”
column, are surprised to learn that a dog perspires
on its tongue, nose and on the pads of its paws;
that the porcupine has been known to remain in
the same position for forty-eight hours; and that
the octopus does not swim, but moves about on
the bottom of the sea by using its arms.

560

Gustave Utke believes that his biggest job is to
convince Milwaukee that the Wisconsin Humane
Society is “not just another cat—and—dog organiza-
tion.” That’s why the lecture hall at the society’s
shelter features adult programs three nights a.
week and is always available to interested groups
who want to study animals.

These programs—plus showings of films in

' schools—reach more than 100,000 men, women,

and children in Milwaukee County every year.

All the society’s programs—in the schools, be-
fore civic groups and at the animal shelter—stress
the idea that although not every child in a large
city can have a cat or dog, there are many other
possible pets. They emphasize the fact that a gold-
lish or a canary can be just as much of a pet as a
cat or dog, and that all must be treated well.

Mr. Utke’s first move was characteristic—and
prophetic. He tore down all the gruesome pictures
in the lecture hall—pictures purporting to show
what horrible things happen when people abuse
animals—maintaining that this is no way to teach
kindness to dumb creatures. Says he: “Tell a
child what not to do, and he’ll do it, out of curi-
osity. But teach him what animals can do for him
and what he can do for them, and he’ll do it.”

His interest in animals dates back to his boy-
hood in Fond du Lac, \Visconsin. His father, a
blacksmith, had a reputation for being so careful
in shoeing animals that his competitors brought
him their own colts for the first shoeing.

“I’ll never forget the time a farmer came to
town with a beautiful team of black horses pulling
a big load of hay,” he recalls. “As they drew up in
front of my father’s shop, the farmer dropped his
pitchfork into one of the horses. Dad was furious.
He ran outside, climbed up on the wagon, and
landed a haymaker on the farmer’s chin.”

Gustave Utke has been preaching kindness to
animals ever since. And the attitude of the schools
toward his program is eloquently expressed by
Superintendent of Schools Lowell P. Goodrich.

In the foreword to the society’s sixty-seventh
anniversary yearbook, he said:

“Their work is a practical application of the
attitudes and ideals which education seeks to de-
velop in the minds and hearts of youth.”

 

Reprinted from N stare Magazine, Washington. D. C.

 

Many years ago, when nature study was being
introduced into some of the California elementary
schools, a visitor asked one of the teachers “And
what are you growing in your garden?” Her

,answer was “Boys and girls grow in our garden.”

Lucy Cage in Childhood Education

RECREATION

-:
‘-.\
. t.

 OVER A NEW LEAF

RichmondKObserves National Park and Recreation Week

69 _ URNING over a new leaf” in Richmond last

Tspring was not the arduous chore usually
attached to this adage--at least not for thousands
of Richmonders who thronged to the celebration
of National Park and Recreation Week. The an-
nouncement of plans for the week, by the National
Recreation Association, was greeted with delight
by the Department of Recreation and Parks. Ex-
pecting many visitors and tourists for the Profes-
sional Golfers Association tournament the week of
May 23rd, the department seized upon this oc-
casion as a means of entertaining visitors, as well
as local citizens.

Prominent and hard-working citizens, special-
ists in drama, music, dance, nature study, teen-age
recreation and public relations, acted as chairmen
of various committees—and ideas were as rampant
as the foliage on Richmond’s beautiful trees.

Trees in Richmond are a source of great pride
and the keynote for the special programs stemmed
therefrom. “Turn over a new leaf” was advised by
leaf-shaped brochures which were distributed
throughout schools, hotels and restaurants. Folks
both young and old were urged to “Make more use
of your parks and playgrounds” and a schedule of
coming attractions was included. In order not to
conflict with the PGA tournament, the majority
of activities was scheduled for the evening hours.

Richmond newspapers published editorials and
almost daily accounts of the various programs.
Local radio stations cooperated by broadcasting
spot announcements, news items and interviews
with civic personalities. Civic club speakers were
generous with their comments; a full-page pro-
gram announcement in the PGA tournament
booklet reached a wide general audience; news
stories were given to house organs, and posters
and displays appeared in store windows. Mer-
chants placed advertisements in the newspapers.

A contest.in photography attracted members of
the Richmond Camera Club, who turned out en
masse to record spring’s arrival in Richmond
parks. Winning photographs were displayed by
one of the largest department stores, Thalhimers,
and also formed the basis for a Sunday feature

MARCH 1950

/

story on the city’s) parks and National Park and
Recreation Week.

The scene for the “official” activities was Byrd
Park, and here, on Saturday afternoon, an elabo-
rate adaptation of “The Twelve Dancing Prin-
cesses” was presented by children’s dramatic
groups under the direction of the Department of
Recreation and 'Parks.

Simultaneously, in the picnic area, teen-agers

swarmed to a “Gypsy Jamboree” of stunts, games,
a treasure hunt, and other events.

The Carillon, Virginia’s World War I memorial
in Byrd Park, was the scene, on Sunday afternoon,
of the Thomas Jefferson High School Symphonic
Band concert, and the Shakespearean Drama
Group of the Department of Recreation and Parks
presented “The Comedy of Errors” on Friday.

The “Square Set Hoe Down”—0n the spacious
Byrd Park tennis courts—lured both young and
old, participants and spectators .alike. The de-
partment had been sponsoring weekly square
dances for teen—agers, and Thalhimers had con-
ducted a similar series on its roof.

Monday night was to end the festivities of the
week—the finale being an advance offering of the
annual pop concerts, normally not to begin for
another month. But, so enthusiastic had been the
reception of the recreation program during the
week, it was deemed advisable to extend it for
another night. Consequently, on Tuesday night,
music lovers attended the concert given by
the Monroe Collegiate Chorale, thirty-live mixed
voices blended in a program of spirituals, anthems
and popular music. This was the first city-wide
appearance of this Negro group.

The highlighted events of National Park and
Recreation Week did not detract from scheduled
athletic events at the parks and playgrounds,” and
the emphasis on recreation facilities apparently
attracted the interest and participation of hereto-
fore “strangers”. This response has imbued the
Richmond Department of Recreation and Parks
with the determination to offer bigger and better
yearly celebrations in cooperation with civic and
commercial groups.

561

RE CREA TION
AND

   
  

   

  

. o 0 I
«‘3. ..'.‘.‘(o'. .

CI....|.O ‘Qoo‘

atW

HROUGH the years of growth and expansion in

America many groups and societies have de-
veloped that have furthered an interest in garden-
ing. Horticulture has become a hobby and a
science that becomes more fascinating as experi-
ence and information are accumulated.

Botanical gardens and arboretums have in-
creased in number and offer courses to help the
amateur and any person interested in knowing the
fundamentals of horticulture and botany. These
centers are, however, often situated at places not
easily accessible to the average adult away from
a central metropolis such as St. Louis, New York
or Chicago. For the millions of people living in
such cities, the very beauty of the botanical garden
gr0unds is an inspiration. Pilgrimages to these
serve to increase each person’s knowledge of the
plant world.

The meetings of garden clubs throughout the
land present well-planned programs which com-
bine excellent talks on some phase of gardening
with a social afternoon or evening. These clubs
perform civic service by sponsoring some much-
needed improvement or town beautification. They
are not necessarily local in character, however, but
have joined to form a federation whereby they can
increase the scope of their work. Horticultural
societies play a very important part in this pro-

Mir: Elizabeth Clarke 1': .mperw'mr of garden: and
nature activitier, Bureau of Recreation, Baltimore.

562

ELIZABETH CLARKE

gram by offering advice and scheduling lectures.
Their excellent libraries contain books to which
anyone may refer.

For rural areas, quite another type of organiza-
tion has been provided by the United States Gov-
ernment. Bulletins on all phases of farm life have
been made available; agricultural county agents
and home demonstration agents do remarkable
work in assisting the farmer on his land or in his
home. Much, too, has been accomplished by uni-
versity extension services which serve rural areas.
Farmers may go to them for help or receive de—
sired information in the form of bulletins.

However, many persons who enjoy gardening
as recreation are not in a position to take advan-
tage of the numerous opportunities that are offered
in the larger cities, and those with small door-
yard gardens often struggle along with a trial and
error method which frequently makes gardening
an unhappy adventure. With a little instruction on
easier and pr0per ways of gardening, this failure
could be turned into pleasant recreation. But, it
seems that this group of interested people has been
sadly overlooked.

Someone has said that gardening is an individ-
ual activity and not adapted to group participation;
yet adults enjoy sharing interests, being a part of
a group where everyone is intent on completing a
given project. A few adult education centers in-

 

‘L. H. Bailey in "Garden Cyclopedia of Horticulture." p. 1313.
Macmillan Company. 1935.

RECREATION

O In recent years, there has been a growing interest in gar-
dening, as a contribution to public cleanliness and beauty, and
as a means of stimulating civic pride. “In America, this appli-
cation of the gardening spirit to civic improvement has been
very marked—as evidenced in the taking away of fences be-
tween adjoining properties and the development of a street as
a unit. This is a gain to public spirit and to social feeling.”*

clude courses in horticulture, botany or nature
study. However, of eighty agencies (botanical
gardens, horticulture societies, recreation depart-
ments and adult education councils) asked to
furnish information on the subject, fifty-one re—
plies showed that only eighteen offer courses or
lectures in natural history or gardening. Of the
fifty-two recreation departments in large cities that
were solicited for information, only four attempted
such a program on the adult level. Yet, it is as—
sumed that, in order to fill local recreation needs,
recreation programs are planned to be as well—
rounded as possible, offering activities for all the
people. Nature study and gardening, therefore,
should be included. Some recreation centers pro-
vide organized nature walks, while a few have
adult gardening activities. There are many possi-
bilities for expanding this program, thus helping
to “promote a friendly spirit of cooperation and
competition.

A variety of interests may be covered, such as
planting, selecting bulbs suitable for the garden
or for indoors as well as annuals and perennials,
soil improvement and the care of lawns. This last
can be expanded to include pruning trees and
shrubs, making compost and controlling insects
and diseases. Illustrated talks and a discussion of
individual problems make this type of adult recrea—
tion take on a practical aspect that maintains the
interest of the group. Horticulture for the small
urban garden should include fundamental practices
in gardening and advice for the best planting of
small grounds. Vegetable gardens, with the seed
planted and cared for by enthusiastic students
under supervision, could also stimulate interest
and give encouragement to the group.

For the advanced student, common-sense land-
scape design might prove challenging. It could
offer discussions of design problems of home
grounds, either real or hypothetical, and also serve
to present new plant information and experimenta-
tion.

A winter or summer activity for another group
might include lectures, demonstrations and partic-
ipation in flower arrangement workshops. This

MARCH 1950

means of self-expression might, in turn, create a
new interest that hitherto has not been expressed.

Variations for these basic workshops are in-
numerable. If the interest of the group turns to
the small farm, for instance, there could be a series
of discussions and lectures on the layout of the
farm, fruits for the farm, crops, machinery, ani-
mals, bees, ornamental plantings.

A winter series of group meetings might be
worked up on an examination and discussion of
various types of books—garden books, technical
and popular, books old and new, as well as those
on natural science and nature study. Meetings of
this kind might lead to some creative writing or to
a philanthropic attitude for providing the library
or club with books the group has enjoyed or has
found lacking in the local library. For those who
have thought about the distribution of plants, a
study of plant geography might prove all-engross-
ing.

Another winter venture is a workshop giving
the fundamentals of house plant care. This would
be particularly appealing to city folk who try to
bring some of the beauties of the country into their
city home or apartment.

An activity combining art with the chosen hobby
is the enormous field of painting and drawing.
Flowers, insects, animals and landscapes offer a
variety of subjects from which to choose.

Walking or hiking clubs offer a more vigorous
type of recreation. The American Walkers Asso-
ciation schedules a varied program of morning, af-
ternoon and all-day trips for each week—end of the
year. Sometimes, walks of a few hours may be all
that it is possible to schedule, but these—informal
as they are—permit keen appreciation of nature
at first hand when the leader is enthusiastic to dis-
cover new things along the way. Among other
things, the Mountain Club of. Maryland includes
overnight hikes and camping trips.

Many parks, such as the National Capitol Parks
under the direction of the United States Depart-
ment of the Interior, have excellently planned pro-
grams. of nature walks, historical tours, campfire
programs, camera strolls, canal barge trips, hikes

S63

and caravans, all under the able-guidance of park
haturalists. Shorter walks, but of interest to many

families, business and professional people, are those ,

such” as the Sunday afternoon nature walks offered
(byithe-Baltimore Bureau of Recreation. These are

not‘astrenuous, and rambling along at a pace slow _

en‘ough'Vto' suit the group, all °sorts of. interesting
things are discovered by members.

A discussion period, “Garden Information
Please,” continues to attract people from all sec-
tions-of Baltimore. 'It is a beginning of what is
hoped-.qvillvbe a regular worksh0p having two
meetings a month. Most of the participants, who
are-.housewives, -feel that morning hours are most
satisfactory: ,,Among the many suggestions for con—
tifméd meetings are those for lectures, discussions,
round :_ robin: letters, plant exchanges, illustrated
talks and trips to garden centers and flower shows.
wiTofsay. that there is a passing interest in similar
projects- is hardly correct. In late November, an

.r» t

- u. .
.l.‘ "n. ‘r.

i  3.".

3!

 HE. CELEBRATION of Arbor Day has broadened
- Tin scope during recent years with increasing
interest in the wise use of all natural resources.
herefore, an Arbor. Day Festival may usher in a
whole week of programs devoted to conservation
of forests, soils," wildlife, birds and fish, parks and
recreation areas, forest fire—prevention. The Arbor
Day laws of the states afford an excellent back-
ground-for a survey of. the day in its manifold ac-
tivities. " Great poetry, prose and historic incidents
can be associated with. this day, thus tying it up
with literary ideals and economic interests. Noted
conservationists and naturalists can be honored,
among them Audubon, Burroughs, Muir, Theo—
dore Roosevelt, Johnny Appleseed.

The Florida Board-of Forestry and Parks puts
but a bulletin explaining the importance of the day
and including program suggestions. It says, in
part; ' ._

- _Arbor Day is more than just an excuse for an
outing~or a picnic for it gives usthe opportunity
.to, plant trees . . . but, after the day is past, we must
not forget those trees. Instead, we must make a
special effort to see that they get the chance to
grow properly, that they get enough water, that
.weeds and other plants do not crowd them, and
:most important of all, we must see that fires do not

.destroy them-

564

Indoor Gardening Workshop (once a week for
five consecutive weeks) was announced. This
brought interest sufficient to create a waiting list
and resultedin four workshops with enrollment
limited to fifteen at each two—hour session. It was
held at the city’s greenhouse and conservatory,
with excellent cooperation from the park bureau.
Space was allotted and altered to make a work
bench where plants could be potted. The group
made cuttings, planted bulbs and discovered the
A, B, C’s of growing plants in the home. A vari—
ety of labeled plants was displayed, and practical
demonstrations made the venture an enjoyable and
rewarding experience. The atmosphere was one of
fun and pleasure with new found friends—both
plants and people. In fact, interest was so keen
that members of the group were reluctant to part
at the end of the five—week period. At their re-
quest, an adult gardening workshop was started,
to meet once a week from April until fall.

Illrhior Day

Three Kinds of Planting

Plant Trees. By all means plant trees. That’s
number one; but

Plant Also the Love of Trees. For this kind of
planting, the best soil is the heart of childhood
and of youth. And while you are about it

- Plant Likewise Knowledge Concerning Trees.
Not necessarily the forester’stechnical knowledge,
just a comfortable “working knowledge”——- the
leading species and how to distinguish them; how,
and what kind, to select for planting—or to reject;
how to set out a tree; how to care for and protect it.

In program planning, get a music group to write
your tree-planting song, a nature—or other—
grdup to work out a tree quiz or a skit. There are
many songs which can be used in connection with
either an Arbor Day or a conservation program,
and there are many ways in which the songs can
be used. They can be presented by an individual
as a solo, by a chorus or glee club, or can be used
as community singing if the tunes are familiar and
if c0pies of the words are distributed. to those pres—
ent. Recordings can also be used,.especially if an
amplifying system is available.

Work out your own program, and be sure to
include the PLANTING of trees!

RECREATION

Are there servicemen stationed near your town? Are they welcome in your
community centers and programs? Lessons can be learned from the USO.

This article was prepared for RECREATION by USO headquarters.

Recreation for
TEEN-AGE SERVICEMEN

N JANUARY 25, 1950 came the announcement
0 that the United Service Organizations, or-
ganized as an emergency measure in 1941 to pro-
vide a “home away from home” for millions of
men and women in the armed forces, would dis-
continue its activities during the month because of
lack of funds. Although support is being urged
for the continued services of the separate agencies
of which it is composed*, this announcement has
special significance for community recreation de-
partments which, at present, have an army or
navy installation nearby.

Program and services for today’s servicemen
continue to be of utmost importance and, although
the USO was deactivated in 1947, it was called
back into service by President Truman in July,
1948. There are now over one million and a half
men in uniform, based in camps which are scat-
tered throughout the country. The planning of
recreation department programs to serve commu—
nity recreation needs therefore should take into
account the presence of servicemen and women
and, wherever needed, provide recreation services
for these groups.

“USO” and the word “recreation” have gone
hand in hand. There is much to be learned, there-
fore, from USO experience in serving these men.
Today, two major factors—in addition to the de-
crease in numbers of men in uniform—had been
governing USO program planning. One, that the
constant movement that dominated the wartime
military scene has been replaced by the semi-per-
manence of garrison duty and training. Because
he generally remains at one post for a more or less
predictable period of time, it is possible to sched-

MARCH 1950

ule activities for the serviceman or woman which
demand more extended planning and take a longer
period of time than could be permitted during the
halycon days of wartime.

Age is the other factor which influenced plan-
ning. Teen—agers now make up the largest single
group in the armed forces. More than half of
America’s service personnel is under voting age.
The traditional description of the serviceman, as
a boy away from home for the first time, was never
more apt than it is today.

One hundred thirty-four USO operations in the
United States and overseas served 495,000 per-
sons a week in 1949. Over a hundred of these
were clubs, lounges and Travelers Aid services.
The remainder were a part of a growing program
of decentralized operations—clubs without club
houses—which aimed to be a working partnership
between USO and the community. These evolved
to meet the need of providing services for scattered
units. It was felt, too, that the decentralized oper-
ation carries the advantage of bringing servicemen
into the doings of normal community life. It in-
sures that during his hitch with the military, he .
will not lose touch with the churches, fraternal and
civic organizations, youth groups and home life
that go with regular civilian planning.

Many of these operations may continue under
the auspices of the separate USO agencies, but
even so, many communities that need such services
have not had them. Surely, wide-awake commu-
nity recreation departments should examine their

 

'USO operations are operated individually or jointly, as the Case
may be, by USO's member agencies—the YMCA. Nanonal Catholic
Community Service, National Jewish Welfare Board, othe YWCA.
Salvation Army and the National Travelers Aid Assocratron.

565

 

During oE—post hours, servicemen enjoy playing on
community sports fields. Here USO worker joins the
game; recreation leaders can make them feel welcome.

own communities and be ever more alert to the
recreation needs of military personnel. USO ex-
perience in this phase of recreation should be help-
ful to us.

USO club programs had been planned by pro-
fessional staff in cooperation with councils of jun-
ior hostesses and servicemen. Bringing servicemen
into the planning, which began during the war,
was made possible to a greater extent by peace-
time service. GI’s are stationary long enough to
schedule planned activities and to take part in
mapping out the schedule. And who knows better
than a GI what GI’s want to do?

Whether club-centered or decentralized, USO
programs attempted to meet the need for both in-
dividual and mass recreation which characterizes
the entertainment requirements of our armed
forces. Like any million and a half persons united
by common occupation, today’s young servicemen
pose the paradox of hetero-homogeneity. The solu-
tion to the paradox lies in offering something for
every taste.

For the large groups, there were dances, parties,
picnics, sports nights, beach outings, carnivals, rol-
ler skating, movies, “amateur hours,” and other
entertainment to watch. For individual and diver-
sihed tastes, there were discussion clubs, classes,
concerts, hobby programs, fishing and hunting
parties, planned tours, home hospitality, ping-pong,
pool, puzzles and other small games, bowling, cut-
price tickets for commercial entertainment. Both
categories contain a gamut of activities which
service-conscious communities may undertake with
reasonable assurance of success. Local parks, play-
grounds, beaches, auditoriums, schools, clubs,
bowling alleys, skating rinks, community centers,

566

athletic fields, and points of tourist interest offer
resources comparable to those with which USO
personnel were working.

Community workers planning “drop-in opera—
tions” for servicemen on all-week or regular week-
end basis, will be wise to provide a variety of
individual special interest activities, in addition to
scheduling big dances and other mass entertain-
ment. \Vhere the community program consists of
invitations to occasional events for servicemen,
who are brought in busloads from near or distant
military installations, it is virtually mandatory to
plan entirely in terms of large group activities.

It is a good idea to notify the local Travelers
Aid about all programs since servicemen fre-
quently check with them to find out what there
is to do in town. Some proved and popular pro-
grams follow.

For Large Groups

On the strictly recreational side, nothing suc-
ceeds like a party and food. A dress-up party
that proved unusually successful was a Rodeo
Dance at \Vestover Air Base, Holyoke, Massachu-
setts. Guests were greeted by a pretty cowgirl
and handsome cowboy. Guns were given out at
the door and “blood” flowed freely throughout
the evening. The cowboy lassoed the girl he
wished for a dance partner, or “shot” the part-

'ner she was with. Feature of the evening was a

broncho-bustin’ contest, with the broncho—a bar-
rel strung up on ropes and manned by four
stalwarts—throwing all comers inside of four
seconds. A cigarette-rolling contest—with rollers
using one hand, and the proof of prowess a puff
of real smoke—resulted in prizes of store ciga-
rettes for the winners. Prior notice in the camp
newspaper produced picturesque costumes. A
riotous version of the Virginia Reel set the rodeo
mood.

In Montgomery, Alabama, a more sedate
“French Cafe” dance provided the theme for an
outdoor party. A fioor show, overhead lights, a
dance platform surrounded by tables with check-
ered tablecloths and bottle candleholders provided
entertainment and atmosphere. The highlight of
the evening was the selection of the “Mademoiselle
of the Evening” by six judges who were chosen
by drawing numbers.

To add a note of hilarity and informality to
any evening, one USO program director used to
call for a “dance with no arms.” This is just what
it is named—couples dance with their arms at
their sides, the girl following her partner strictly
by instinct and quick eyes.

RECREATION

Audience Participation

Many USO’s found that the most popular pro-
grams are those calling for audience participation.
The Seattle, Washington, USO made a practice
of adapting radio audience participation programs,
one of its most successful attempts being the
“Stop the Music Mystery Melody” contest.

A weekly event at the club, the contest was
given a buildup by having the mystery melody
played at every program event during the week.
A melody that is familiar but tricky to guess makes
the best selection; if it is too difficult, interest
lags. On the evening of the contest, every serv-
iceman and hostess was given a number. Twelve
were selected by drawing to participate in the con-
test. Preliminary identification of a simple tune
was required for eligibility to guess the mystery
melody, with small prizes given for correct iden-
tification. Clues to the mystery melody were
multiplied each week until it was guessed. Each
week that it remained unidentified, an additional
prize was added to the pot for the winner. |

Amateur hours provide another form of audi—
ence participation. In Fayetteville, North Caro-
lina, where they were broadcast from the USO
over a local radio station, they also served as a
means of interesting the community in the service-
men’s program. Eight contestants, principally
soldiers, competed for first, second, and third
prizes on the half-hour “Talent Time” program,
for which the club director.served as m.c. T0
warm up the audience for the radio show, as well
as to provide a full hour’s entertainment, “Talent
Time” was preceded by a half-hour quiz show
which was not broadcast. All talent applicants
were screened during the hour preceding the show
and the eight best were selected to appear. The
pianist serving as accompanist checked the proper
key for each at this time. Three judges who sat
in the audience selected the program winners on
the basis of audience applause and their own pref-
erences. Different judges were used each week,
their identity kept secret until the end of the pro-
gram. APPLAUSE and QUIET signs were used to
keep the audience in hand and the program within
the allotted radio time.

Outdoor Programs

With summer coming up, outdoor activities
will assume major importance. Beach parties are
sure-fire. Experienced club directors caution that
the program must offer activities in addition to
swimming and sunning. Competitive events—tug
of war, greased watermelon contest, free style
swimming races, which hostess brought the best

MARCH 1950

 

There was always a piano at the USO and, generally,
a player. Community centers can offer much for
these boys, opening their doors for drop-in services.

box lunch ?—add fun; horseshoe pitching, softball
and dancing provide additional variety.

A mock field day proved a huge success at a
Fourth of July picnic last year. Players were
given scissors and a long, long strip of paper,
which they cut down the center in a “hundred-
yard dash.” A shotput event consisted of throw-
ing balloons on a string for distance; the discus
throwing involved heaving a paper plate. In the
cross-country race, strings threaded with small
paper cups were stretched across the field. Play—
ers blew the cups from one end of the string to the
other, and back. In the 440-yard relay, the first
player walked backwards twenty feet carrying a
piece of thread. The second player, holding a
needle, received the thread and proceeded to thread
the needle. He then walked backwards to the third
player, who held a button. The third player, walk—
ing backwards, carried a needle, thread and but-
ton to a fourth player. He sewed the button on a
piece of cloth and delivered the finished product—-
walking backwards—t0 the finish line. Judging at
the “field day” was conducted in all seriousness,
with measurements of time and distance carefully
recorded.

Hayrides, weiner roasts, watermelon cuttings,
barbecues, clambakes, or other specialties of the
region . . . add group singing, a soft ball, a juke
box or record player for dancing . . . mix with a
day in the sun or an evening under the moon—
and summer is a wonderful season for service-
men’s recreationn—and, as a matter of fact, per-
feet for many other groups, too!

Sports Nights

Sports nights work into program the year

567

 

Now it is possible to schedule projects
requiring longer participation periods.

around. In New York City, the club asked the
Catholic Youth Organization or Police Athletic
League to supply four or five top amateur boxing
bouts. Local promoters provided a wrestling bout
or two. Between bouts, local sports personalities
addressed the men, demonstrated their special
sport techniques, and answered questions from the
audience. The Biloxi, Mississippi, USO held ath-
letic smokers at the start of the various sports
seasons, as have many other clubs. A typical base-
ball smoker included guest appearances by big
league, minor league or old-time baseball players,
movies of the last \Vorld Series or pictures on
“How to Play Baseball”. The local sports editor
and radio sports commentators served as m.c. or
took part in panel discussions, prognostications,
and the like. Local sandlot, high school and col-
lege coaches and teams were other guest possi-
bilities.

Biloxi elaborated on these basic ingredients by
having Boy Scouts, dressed as vendors, pass
through the audience calling “Peanuts, popcorn,
chewing gum, candy, cigarettes, scorecard you
can’t tell the players without it . . .” Refreshments
—provided by a local organization—were given
free, as were small souvenir bats.

Americans are tourists at heart and teen-agers
are naturally teen-age tourists. USO sight-seeing
programs ranged from elaborate overnight and
week-end tours in border areas to one-day trips
to local and nearby points of interest. Tours are
most popular in areas of historic interest, out-
standing natural phenomena, and in neighboring
countries, but almost every section of the United
States has something to interest boys who have

 

568

never previously been far from their hometowns.
In scheduling trips which involve expense on the
part of the GI’s, it is best to hold them close to
the first of the month, when the men are paid.
All arrangements should be made ahead of time
so that they may be presented as a complete “pack-
age,” with all costs carefully itemized, necessary
clothing and equipment listed and a detailed time
schedule made out. Chambers of Commerce are

most helpful in working out such arrangements.

Special Interest Activities

Some sight-seeing trips have mass appeal; oth-
ers are for smaller groups interested in mountain-
climbing, literary shrines, skiing, hunting, fishing,
music festivals, scenic photography, local flora and
fauna or other esoteric pursuits.

The USO in Astoria, Oregon, combined sight-
seeing with home hospitality in a weekly program
of “Hikes to Houses of Mystery.” Each Monday
night a staff member or volunteer took the first
ten men to sign up for the event on a “hike,” with
spots of interest duly noted. Forty-five minutes
of walking brought the group to the evening’s
mystery house, which was a secret until that time.
The host and hostess of the house——generally a
minister and his wife or other couples asked
through a church—entertained the group for the
remainder of the evening. For safety first, the
leader carried paper and pencils, small games and
some song sheets, but the evening generally passed
in swapping stories, toasting marshmallows and
playing games. Simple refreshments were served.

Photography invariably attracts a sturdy group
of adherents and is especially fitted for spring and
summer. Darkroom facilities, lectures by local
amateur or professional photographic experts,
photographic field trips, photo-of—the-month con-
tests and seasonal photography exhibits all help
to spark a photography program.

USO had nine years to discover what makes
a program tick, so far as servicemen and women
are concerned. Variety, good equipment, imagina-
tion and coordinated planning play important parts
in making a successful program. But, in the final
analysis, it is the spirit of the program that counts
most. A cordial, congenial atmosphere, an absence
of strain and compulsion, unobtrusive leadership,
a feeling of being at home—these are all-impor-
tant. Combine them with technical know-how and
the result? \Vell, USO had 21,967,541- service
visitors in 1949. Compared with the number of
men in service—a million and a half—that im-
pressive total only can mean that a lot of satisfied
GI’s returned again and again.

RECREATION

This chapter, reprinted from Mr. Sorenson’s

new book—The Art of Board Membership*—
will be continued in RECREATION next month.

FUNUTHINS AND DUTIES 0F BMRDS

Part1

ROY SORENSON

THERE IS A variety of ways by which the func-

tions, powers, and duties of boards can be
dehned.

In Terms of Policy Determination

A policy, in the sense used here, is a dehnite
course of action adopted by a board of directors.
It defines what shall be done, what purposes shall
be pursued, what principles shall govern, What
program shall be followed, what financial proce-
dures shall operate, what the personnel practices
shall be, and what courses of action shall be taken.
Policies are guides to everyone in the organiza—
tion, volunteers and employees, in all applicable
situations. Only the board can change policy or
vote exceptions. "

The differences between policy and day-to-day
operating decisions are frequently misunderstood.
As many decisions made from day to day by staff
and volunteers actually represent policy, the ad—
ministrative and program task is simplified by the
adoption of guiding policies on these matters.
Lack of policy burdens staff and operation with
many repetitive decisions. Because operating pol-
icies contribute to the efficiency of everyone, the
executive should be alert to spot those problems
which have come up before. Then the board or
committee can determine what policy or action
should be taken in the future.

An oversimplified generalization is that policy
formulation and planning are the responsibility of
both board and committee members and of pro-
fessional staff. Planning includes the clarification
of long and short-range objectives.

Actually, policy determination is the responsi-

Mr. Soremon, formerly on YMCA National Council,
i: executive recretary of YMCA in Sam Francisco.

MARCH 1950

bility of the executive and his staff. Once policies
are established, it is the task of the professional
to see that they are carried out. Volunteers, in-
cluding board members, may participate; but the
executive is ultimately responsible to the board
for results, no matter who joins in the work.

In Terms of ProceduresT

Another way to define the job of boards is to
suggest the procedures that they follow, such as
reviewing, confirming, counseling, deciding, and
negotiating : '

I. By reviewing operating and financial state-
ments, reports and minutes of meetings, the board
keeps informed of executive acts and committee
actions, thus tacitly passing on these actions.

2. The board confirms, modifies, or rejects exec-
utive or committee proposals. After asking dis—
cerning questions, the board generally confirms
and thus validates the executive or committee
decision. Although the refusal to conhrm may be
infrequent, this fact does not reduce the board to
a rubber stamp. When executives know that the
board will question their proposals, they support
their recommendations with careful analysis and
planning.

3. Advice is provided by the board when plans
or administrative decisions are in initial stages.
The board meeting provides group judgment on
matters where the executive seeks such counsel.
Likewise, informal conferences outside the meet—
ing enable individual board members to give the
executive encouragement, guidance, or caution.

4. To consider, debate, and decide an issue is a
board’s primary function. The board takes juris-
diction over those areas for which it is legally

 

'Published in February by Association Press. New York. $2.00.
TDirectorr and Their Functiom, J. C. Baker. Andover Press, 1945.

pp. 16 and 17.

569

'responsible. It weighs the result of investigation,
chooses the executive, decides personnel policy,
restates objectives, changes by-laws, determines
maintenance reserve policy for property, or
changes program. It determines courses of action,
settles or adjudicates conflicts, and makes deci-
sions.

5. The board as a whole, or by appointed repre-
sentation, negotiates in behalf of the agency with
such bodies as the community chest, public groups,
petitioners, or labor unions.

In Terms of More Specific Functions
and Duties

The more useful catalogue of functions and
duties may be in terms of the content of the busi-
ness for which a board is responsible.

Specific functions and duties of a board are:

I. To perform its legal responsibility.

2. To set up by-laws, regulations, and Operating
procedures. '

3. To select, employ and, if necessary, dismiss
the executive.

4. To control the operating budget, the financial
plan, and the insurance program.

5. To care for and maintain property.

6. To be responsible for program.

7. To assure sound personnel policies and select
staff.

8. To maintain good public relations.

9. To appoint, commission, supervise, and re-
ceive reports from committees.

A detailed description of each of these follows.

To Perform Its Legal Responsibility

Most agencies are incorporated and boards are
legally bound to carry out purposes set forth in
the articles of incorporation. Board action is re-
quired for contracts and bank signatures. Duties
prescribed by the articles of incorporation and by-
laws, and other corporate action of the agency,
also require board resolution.

Legal counsel is needed occasionally by smaller
agencies and fairly regularly by large agencies.
Many boards enlist the services of public-Spirited
attorneys, who sometimes serve on the board.

To Adopt By-Laws, Regulations and
Operating Procedures

To govern its own work, every board should
have a simple and brief, but specific, set of by-
laws. They should provide clear duties of the offi—
cers of the board and the procedures by which
the board will transact its business. “Long, detailed
rules unduly restrict a board.

570

Large agencies require comprehensive state-
ments of policies, principles, and procedures. Some
have deve10ped a looseleaf guide to bring together
such general policies and procedures as are
adopted from time to time. Only important items
are included, leaving operating details and rules
to the administration. The management in one
Y.M.C.A. has codified policy and procedures to
include:

A. Purpose: , a. Purchasing and
1. Religious Philoso-' invoice proce-
phy. dure.
B. Policy: l). Inventories of

items for resale.
c. Revolving fund

1. Program Policy.
2. General Policies.

C. Organization: —petty cash.

1. Charter of the (1- Federal admis— '
Association. sions tax.

2. By-laws of the e. Federal excise
Association. tax.

3. Organization f. Chart of ac-
Charts. counts.

4. Division of Respon— g. Journal
sibility of Metropol- vouchers.
itan StaH, h. Cash and in-

come accounting.
2. Other Procedure:

a. Checks—accept-
ing, cashing,
collecting.

b. Legal papers,
contracts, leases,
summonses, no-
tices concerning
the Association.

c. \Vhat to do in
emergencies,
such as injuries.

(1. Rules covering
residence halls.

3. Suggested Specifi-
cations for Mem-
bers of Boards of
Management.

6. Branch By-laws.

D. Personnel:

1. Personnel Policy.

2. Industrial \Velfare
Commission Order.

3. Arrangements with
Unions.

4. Payroll Procedure.

E. Procedure:

1. Accounting Pro-
cedure:

It is the board’s duty to map general operating
procedures, in cooperation with the executive, and
to revise them periodically.

To Select, Employ and, If Necessary,
Dismiss the Executive

The most important function of a board is to
select its executive. The executive, more than any
other one factor, determines the agency perform-
ance, the effectiveness of staff, the efiiciency of
operation, and the quality of board membership.
A poor executive wreaks immeasurable harm on
the agency, the staff, and the community. Hence,
the board should seek the best executive available.

A staff favorite, a local candidate, or someone
urged by any individual or group should be ap-
praised on the same objective basis as others.
Too much is at stake to let seniority, low salary,
or personal loyalties interfere with the securing of
the best qualihed person. It is easier to hire an

RECREATION

adequate executive than it is to dismiss an inade-
quate one. National agency representatives and
persons well acquainted with the field can provide
invaluable counsel on executives. Their advice
should be sought.

To choose a qualified executive:

I. Determine qualifications—age, experience,
training, special abilities, and personal attainments
——~—and decide upon procedure—method of contact-
ing, judging, and selecting candidate; and use of
outside professional help in securing names and in
selection.

2. Consider as many candidates as possible.

3. Check references carefully and seek addi-
tional reports concerning each candidate’s record
to determine the relation of the candidate’s quali—
fications and experience to the very specific needs
of the job under consideration. Eliminate those
who do not meet usual agency standards.

4. Have someone visit the community in which
the leading candidate last worked, and talk to
employers, board members, and community lead—
ers. If a visit is not possible, information should
be sought by mail.

5. Interview candidates and ask questions about
local agency problems. The answers indicate judg-
ment and personality.

6. Employ the best-qualified person, even if it
is necessary to raise the salary scale. Unless an
agency competes in salary with similar agencies
elsewhere, it risks getting a poorly qualified execu-
tive or losing a well—qualified one to an organi—
zation which pays more.

After a new executive is employed, the board
often neglects an important responsibility. Proper
initiation of the appointee can launch him quickly
and favorably as a part of the community. If the
executive must forge his own way, without help
from board members, it will be a long time, if ever,
before he attains his rightful position in the com-
munity. His appointment should be followed up
with press announcements, receptions, and early
speaking opportunities. He should be taken as a
guest to clubs and civic functions, and favorably
introduced to those he will meet in his work. Help-
ing a new executive get started adds to his effec-
tiveness and lends prestige to the agency.

Dismissing an executive requires conscientious
courage. Frequently, boards are so sentimental or
uncritical that they do an executive an injustice
by letting him stay on. This injures his self-
respect and confidence, and cuts down the prestige
and effectiveness of the agency. If the board is
alert, the members should become aware of an
executive’s limitations before they are generally

MARCH 1950

 

BOARDS TODAY

"The place of boards in modern business.
government. and voluntary societies has reached
a new high in social importance and complexity
today . . .

"Hundreds of thousands of American men
and women in every town and city serve as
directors. committee members or volunteers in

some voluntary social-service agency.
"This is democratic. It signifies that social
conscience and willingness to accept community

responsibility are alive and expressive. Citizen
boards keep democracy green at its roots. They
are an important index of our national vitality."

——Roy Sorenson

known in the community.

Voluntary agency boards are notoriously reluc—
tant to replace executives, even after it has long
been apparent to others that a change is needed.
This is one negative result of large boards. It is
also true that an executive’s success or failure is
not as apparent in an agency as in business where,
for example, sales volume and profit are clearly
related to administration. The size of caseload or
membership in a social agency does not always in-
dicate good management. In fact, a caseload or
membership too large in relation to staff and vol-
unteer workers may be a sign of a poor agency.

Here are several typical blocks in board think—
ing when it appears that a change of executive is
needed:

I. Belief that the inadequate incumbent is typi-
cal of his profession and that a change would '
probably not be for the better. “We could do
worse.” Outside consultation with persons who
know the field can affirm or discount this belief.

2. Unwillingness to force the issue until the
executive gets another position. If he is not suc—
ceeding, it is unlikely that an equal offer will ever
come. Usually, people do not accept a less respon-
sible and perhaps less remunerative position until
they must. Yet, after a painful period of read-
justment, most find re-employment. Those totally
unemployable, even in a more modest job, cer-
tainly are unqualified for an executive’s post.

3. Fear of splitting the board. This is a real
danger if the matter is not skillfully handled. One
board took two years to change an executive.
During this period, unconvinced board members
were asked to observe for themselves his limita-
tions.

4. Understandable reluctance to undertake un-
pleasantness. This is especially true where board

Opinion is divided. Some fever inevitably accom-

571

panies an Operation; but, after the fever subsides,
the patient feels better than before the surgery.
Satisfactions which follow outweigh the transient
unpleasantness. But blundering, tactlessness, and
impatience in the replacement of executive or
staff can cause serious morale problems in an
agency.

Of course, when a chairman or a group of board
members are convinced that a change should be
made, they should proceed in a kindly, orderly,
and professional manner. The chairman, alone or
with one or more board members, should discuss
the matter freely and frankly with the executive,
inviting his cooperation. Thus approached, most

executives will either resign or convince the board
that they can correct the unfavorable conditions.
A resignation may be made effective at a future
time, mutually acceptable, with the smallest amount
of feeling. The executive should always be given
the privilege of resigning for his own reasons,
with enough time to become emotionally adjusted
to the change.

It is much to the advantage of both executive
and board to be saved the necessity of building up
a bill of particulars in a board meeting, a discus-
sion of the issue, and a formal resolution to dis—
miss. If the executive refuses to cooperate, how-
ever, the board is left with no other alternative.

(To be continued)

NATIENAL PARK AND RECREATION WEEK

UCCESSFUL OBSERVANCES of the first National

Park and Recreation Week in many commu-

nities may suggest ideas for others who now are
planning this year’s May 21-30 celebration:

Alton, Illinois—made this a city project, called
upon groups of businessmen to push it; set up
material for special news features for newspapers
for each evening; wrote spot announcements for
the radio, to be used each day as many times as
possible; and grouped their biggest selling factor
—a set of teen-age youngsters and a group of
elderly people—to do square dancing on the stages
of local theaters three nights during the week.
This did much to build up square dancing in this
community.

Miami Beach, Florida—used the occasion for
dedication, with suitable trimmings, of a new fif—
teen-acre park. The aid of several organizations
was enlisted. A senior high school band of forty-
eight pieces furnished music; the playgrounds, a
flag-raising ceremony; an elementary school pro-
vided a short act. The toastmaster, president of
the local business men’s association, moved the
forty-minute program along with dispatch. It was
climaxed with the serving of ice cream and soft
drinks, and inspection of the new, improved area
which has a new recreation building, two concrete
basketball courts, two concrete volleyball courts,
two open field areas, a fully enclosed small chil-
dren’s playground, and appropriate landscaping.
Prior to the event, posters and the Ford Motor
Company’s national parks pamphlet were distrib-
uted throughout the city.

572

Hawaii—launched a wide publicity campaign.
Among displays were a twelve-by-twenty-four-foot
cartoon map of Oahu’s beach facilities, erected in
the city hall lobby; four tables of crafts from the
Children’s Museum workshop and the playgrounds,
displayed in the library; pictures, athletic equip-
ment and marionettes in a bookstore, tying in
books with the exhibit; a photographic display
appeared in one much-inspected window, a display
featuring “Have Fun,” “Beach Parks and Play-
grounds,” in another. Activities included Special
teen-age dances, open house and exhibits at every
center and playground; a large play day held at
Ala Moana Park commemorating Joseph Lee Day.

Butler, Pennsylvania —— dedicated the new
Ritts Park amphitheater. In a newspaper spread
on National Park and Recreation Week, under
good activities pictures, effective quotes were used,
such as: “Life has taught me that adults, like
children, want to be doing something.”—Henry
Ford. “Psychologists tell us that everyone has
certain fundamental needs. High on this list is
the need for adventure. The child will find it!
Good or bad, it is as necessary to him as food.”—
Howard Braucher. “The function of play is to
balance life in relation to work, to keep alive the
spirit of adventure and that sense of proportion
which prevents taking one’s self and one’s job too
seriously.”—Dr. Austin Riggs. “Citizenship can-
not be taught as a cold, abstract thing. «It can be
taught best through doing things together that
yield joy; through'playing together.”—-Tam Deer-
mg. (Also see article on page 561.)

RECREATION

CAMPING m “LBSTERS

CLEVELAND’S FIRST experiment in camping for
older people, consisting of two five-day ses-
sions, August 29th to September 9th, owed its
success to the enthusiastic cooperation of a num-
ber of agencies and individuals. The immediate
planning was done by a special camp committee
and the site was Camp Cleveland—city-owned
property located in Warrensville Heights, sixteen
miles from downtown Cleveland.

The City Council granted a ten-day extension
to the regular camping period in order to permit
its use by the older people. Food was provided
by the city, and prisoners from the nearby work-
house were used for some of the kitchen work,
cutting wood for the fireplace, policing the
grounds, and so on. Funds to pay the salaries of
a cook, assistant cook, and a crafts instructor were
obtained from other sources. Money given as a
memorial to the late Margaret E. Barkley was
made available for this purpose. The city recrea—
tion department provided the part-time services of
a choral leader and an art-craft instructor.

Camp Cleveland is ideally located for such a
venture. The terrain is level and provides no dif-
ficulty for older people. It is accessible to good
public transportation, and is not far from the
City Infirmary, where nurses and doctors are
available in case of a medical emergency. It is
far enough away from the city to provide pure air
and a country environment.

Mr. Wood: is director of Recreation Project for
Older People, Group Work Coarzcz'l, Welfare Feder-

ation of Cleveland. Above is ogicz'al report on
Margaret E. Barkley Summer Camp for Older People.

MARCH 1950

JAMES H. WOODS

Recruiting Campers

The members of the Cleveland Golden Age
Clubs were the principal source of recruits because
it was felt that they would be able to make the
best physical and social adjustments. Residents of
public, philanthropic and commercial homes for
the aged were excluded unless they were members
of Golden Age Clubs as well. It was felt that they
had sufficient experience in group living, as well
as in alternative activities, and that others, per-
haps living alone, would benefit more from the
camping experience. Later, the local office of the
Division of Aid for the Aged was invited to sub-
mit the names of those of their clients who ex-
pressed an interest in attending camp.

The requirements specified that applicants must
be sixty years of age or over, ambulatory resi-
dents of Cleveland and not requiring special diets.
All were asked to take physical examinations two
weeks before the opening of camp. The city health
department provided doctors for this free exam-
ination but campers, if they preferred, could fur-
nish a certificate from their own private physician.

The director of the Recreation Project for Old-
er People interpreted the camp to each club, men-
tioning the fact that it would serve both white and
colored campers and that harmonious relation-

ships were essential.

Staff and Program

Co-directors of the camp were W. E. Sinclair,
loaned for the occasion by the Home Inspection
Section, Division of Aid for the Aged, and James
H. Woods, director of the Recreation Project for
Older People," Welfare Federation of Cleveland.

573

 

Older people enjoy camping, flourish under
camp regime and benefit in physical well-being.

A dietitian of the \Velfare Federation planned the
meals and lived at camp during the period, and a
nurse from the Division of Aid for the Aged slept
nights at the camp to take care of any emergencies
that might arise and thus relieve any anxieties on
the part of the campers. These, together with
other volunteers, provided a staff of seven full-
time persons and five part—time persons during
the first camping period, and six full-time persons
and five part-time during the second period.

The daily camping schedule included a rising
hour of seven a.m. followed by flag raising and
salute to the fiag by all campers. Two campers
were selected to take charge of the fiag exercises
each period. After breakfast at eight, camp chores
were in order. Each camper was responsible for
making his own bed and keeping the group cabin
neat. Activity periods included singing classes,
art—craft classes, nature study. A rest period was
observed from twelve forty-five to two o’clock,
and free time allowed for unplanned activities
from four to five. Supper was early, and was fol-
lowed by a social and game period from seven to
eight-fifteen. Each evening was concluded with a
campfire circle—a period of inspiration around the
fireplace.

Nature study covered the geological structures
of the Cuyahoga County area, local vegetation,
birds, snakes and fur animals, and one evening was
spent studying the stars. After the camp started,
it was discovered that the campers were inter-
ested in taking short, conducted nature walks, and
this was added to the program.

The crafts classes, directed by two different in-
structors morning and afternoon, included finger

574

painting, leather work, designs on copper, weaving
of table mats and hot pads, and ceramics. Camp-
ers suffering from arthritis in the hands were par-
ticularly invited to try ceramics, and they were
given clay to take home. There was some discus-
sion as to whether campers should be charged for
crafts materials and the directors finally decided
against it. -

On the first day of camp in each session an
orientation period was held, in which campers
were made acquainted-‘with the daily schedule and
helped to adjust to camp life.

Cards, checkers, shufHeboard, bingo and other
games were made available to the campers. News-
papers were ordered for those desiring them and
the nearby Infirmary Canteen was open daily for'
the purchase of small articles. Directed games
included musical chairs, a scavenger hunt, relay
games of various kinds (those involving the pass-
ing of articles), elimination games and others
which served as ice breakers and encouraged fun
and participation. Group singing also proved es-
pecially popular.

Once each period a home talent night was held
and campers were given an opportunity to share
their entertainment abilities. An original dramatic
skit was rehearsed and given by the campers on
the final night of each session. One issue of a
camp newspaper was produced by the campers
each week containing, among other items of news,
the names and addresses of all the campers. A
square dance was held, and any birthday occurring
during the period was properly celebrated with a
cake and candles.

The final night of each week was a gala occasion.
Members made hats out of any material available
—leaves, newspapers, flowers, tin cans, boxing
gloves, kitchen equipment, a badminton racquet,
and so forth. After a grand march, prizes were
awarded according to popular applause.

The campfire circle had an especial appeal for
the campers. A fire was lighted in the fireplace
and lights were extinguished in the recreation hall.
The leader for the evening read inspirational po-
ems or portions of the Psalms, and sometimes
gave a short talk. Some of the old and familiar
songs were sung on this occasion and greatly en-
joyed by all. On the final night many of the camp-
ers gave testimony as to what camp had meant
to them.

Outside talent invited to perform upon occasion
included singers and musicians. Motion pictures
were shown once each session.

An attempt was made to have the camp con-
ducted as democratically as possible. To this end

RECREATION

a cabin council was instituted which included one
camper representative from each of the ten cabins.
The council elected its own chairman to preside
at each meeting and met with the co-directors
each morning at nine a. m. for the purpose of dis—
cussing any criticisms or making any suggestions.
Council representatives conducted a cabin inspec—
tion each afternoon to insure neatness among the
campers. Many valuable suggestions were made,
and the council played an important part in devel-
0ping a true camp spirit within a few days time.
Among subjects discussed were such things as ad-
visability of a nightly curfew; fire prevention; the
problem of campers taking more food than they
could eat, and so on.

Statistics

One thousand nine hundred seventy—eight meals
were served during the two sessions of camp.
Kitchen help included six persons—two paid and
four sent from the workhouse to assist.

Attendance at the first session included four
white men, four colored men, thirty-seven white
women, and twenty-one colored women, totaling
sixty-six campers. The second session included
two white men, four colored men, thirty-four white
women and fifteen colored women, making the
over—all total of attendance for both sessions one
hundred twenty—one. Of this number, two camp-
ers went home during the first session and one
during the second period. Because there were va—
cancies during the second period, twenty-seven
campers from the first period were permitted to
remain over for the second week. Fifteen Golden
Age Clubs were represented, and sixty of the
campers were seventy years of age or over. As
far as possible, members from the same club were
placed in the same cabin.

The following organizations participated either
in the planning of the camp or‘ in contributing in
some way to the camp program: The City of
Cleveland through the City Council, the Depart—
ment of Health and Welfare, and the Recreation
Departments; the Division of Aid for the Aged
through its Department of Home Inspection and
the Cuyahoga County Subdivision office; Phillis
‘Wheatley Association; Cleveland Welfare Feder-
ation; Museum of Natural History; Music School
Settlement; Commercial Home Operators; Camp
Cleveland Committee; Margaret E. Barkley Sum-
mer Camp Committee and a large number of pri—
vate individuals.

Conclusions

Several facts stand out as the result of this
camping experience:

MARCH 1950

I. Older people are good campers—not just fair,
but good. They took cold weather, rain, a change

of surroundings and a camp regime and flourished
under it.

2. Older people benefit from a camping experience.
In many cases, the benefits in physical well-being
and emotional satisfaction exceed that of more
youthful campers. Good food and a balanced diet
are a welcome change to individuals who, in many
cases, are accustomed to solitary meals. Sitting
at a table with others, sharing a cabin with a small
group, can mean a great deal to someone who has
been bereft of family associations for many years.
3. White and colored adults can spend a camp ses-
sion together in harmony and friendliness if there
has been proper preparation for the experience.
4. Public and private agencies can work together
to make such a camping experience successful.

5. A camp for older pe0ple can follow materially
the same camping program as that for younger
persons, with some allowances for physical limita-
tions and the elimination of strenuous sports. Per-
haps inspirational gatherings, such as the fireside
hours, have greater meaning for older people.
Older persons will attempt new experiences in a
group setting that would not attract them as indi-
viduals ; and program participation can be excep—
tionally high.

6. A chance to participate in camp management

by means of a council is important to older adults
and promotes better camp feeling.

7. Camps for older pe0ple should be included in
the social planning of the community because the
need is there, the older people want it, and the
program can be run successfully.

National Music Week

May 7-14 marks the twenty-seventh annual ob-
servance of National and Inter-American Music
Week, directed from the office of the National
Recreation Association.

The seven-day period, when the attention of the
country is focused to a larger extent than usual on
the value of music and music education, is an ideal
time to launch such projects as community sings
and choruses, hymn sings, instrumental groups
and benefit concerts. These last could be large
combined concerts, sponsored by many groups or
small ones sponsored by separate organizations—
with a proportion of the net proceeds going to the
National Music Week Committee and a propor—
tion to some worthy local musical objective.

575

 

Spectators were encouraged to putter in all media.

PLAINFIELDERS have started

making preparations for the third
annual Festival of the Arts, spon-
sored in the spring by the Plainheld
Recreation Commission. The festi-
val, which is a day devoted to the arts, is one of
the largest and most important art activities con-
ducted in that area. It is a cultural and educational
project introducing innumerable fine arts and crea-
tive crafts to the general public. For many of its
participants and spectators, it is an avenue to ex-
tended leisure-time interests and an appreciation of
the arts in home and community life.

Last year, over 1,800 artists, craftsmen, ama—
teurs and professionals, children and adults, dem-
onstrated and exhibited at the second annual Fes-
tival of Arts. In addition to individual entries,
civic organizations and agencies participated as
units. Crowds estimated at well over 7,500 filled
Library Park, where continuous demonstrations
were planned for all areas and spectators were en-
couraged to putter in all media. Audience partici-
pation, a band concert, modern and folk dance
demonstrations, a trio of strolling accordionists
and special demonstrations added much festivity
to the project. One of its most important events
was the awarding of twelve art scholarships,
valued at $700, to boys and girls who ranked as
winners in the poster contest. Because these might
serve as the beginning of an art career or a life-
time hobby, they were considered one of the finest

 

Mir: Taciom': i: supervisor of women and girl:, -

Board of Recreation Commiuionerr, Plainfield, N. I.

57 6

. 0“ ,
'4‘}. If .4 ‘

Demonstrations of art work drew the largest crowds.

Petronella Tacionis

features of the program.

Method of Organization: Artists, civic lead-
ers, educators, and representatives of local or-
ganizations are invited to attend a preliminary
meeting to discuss the merits of such an arts
project. After attaining group approval, a chair-
man is selected by the group and an advisory
board is set up to determine policy and action on
any controversial subjects. The following com-
mittees are necessary for the efiicient conduct of
the occasion:

Public Relations—to prepare newspaper and
radio releases, arrange necessary interviews and
keep the public informed of interesting develop-
ments.

Entry Committee—to prepare entry blanks and
a set of rules governing participation in the fes—
tival, these being subject to group approval; and
to have on hand information vital to the area
planning committee.

Area Planning Committee—to plan areas and
assign locations to participants. The work of this
committee is very important as it must balance
large and small, attractive and less attractive ex-
hibit areas so that there will be a fairly even dis—
tribution of crowds and interest.

Schedule Committee—to meet with featured
artists for special demonstrations and schedule
featured events.

Program Committee—to compile all informa-
tion to be contained in the printed program, design
its cover and prepare dummy for the printer.

Poster Contest Committee—to determine rules
governing the contest, solicit awards, select udges,

RECREATION

meet with winners, distribute posters.

Separate committees meet with civic agencies,
community clubs, schools, art associations and in-
dependent exhibitors. Patrons and advertising
committees solicit ads and contributions to help
finance the project.

A music committee selects suitable recordings
to be played as background music. Correspon-
dence, clerical assistance and various details are
covered by the recreation commission personnel.

Over a thousand man hours for planning and
committee work are spent by volunteers. The
excellence of such fine volunteer leadership, which
displays a real faith in the project, is the one very
important factor which determines the success of
the festival.

Rules: The following set of rules have proved
to be indispensable:

I. New Jersey residents living within a fifteen
mile radius of Plainfield are eligible to participate.
All art associations throughout the state are also
eligible.

2. There will be an adult and junior division.
The junior division will include all entries eight-
een years of age and under.

3. No application will be accepted later than noon,
April —-. No entries postmarked after that date
will be accepted. Permission to participate will
not be granted until an application has been prop—
erly filled out and submitted.

4. Space will be allocated after applications have
been received and approved. Participants will be
notified in writing as to their allocated areas.

5. Neither participants or spectators will be

MARCH 1950

  

charged a fee.

6. The Festival of Arts Committee will not be
held responsible for the following: transportation
of exhibits, display properties; theft or damage to
an article or painting. All entries are the respon-
sibility of the individuals entering them.

7. Commercial exhibits will not be permitted.

8. Saturday, May — has been selected as the fes-
tival date. In case of inclement weather it will be
held the following Saturday. Exhibition time will
be from one o’clock until six o’clock; the morning
shall be reserved for setting up exhibits. All ex—
hibits will be the responsibility of the exhibitors
and set up by twelve noon. Dismantling of ex—
hibits will be between six and six-thirty.

9. All inquiries and correspondence should be
made to the Festival of Arts Committee, Recrea—
tion Commission, City Hall. P1. 6-6171.

IO. Preference and consideration will be given to
early entries.

Attached to the rules is an entry blank to be
filled out by the participant. This contains spaces
for name, address, telephone number, classifica-
tion, description of proposed entry giving in detail

577

the size, type and subject matter, an opportunity
to indicate interest in exhibiting, demonstrating or
both, an agreement to abide bya all rules. After
these entries are submitted, they are given to the
entry and area planning committees for action.

The Festival Program

In accordance with the rules, the participants
are notified of their allocated areas and report in
the morning to set up their display and demon—
stration properties. Two thousand feet of snow
fencing have served as a background for the dis-
plays in fifty areas. Among the various arts and
crafts exhibited and demonstrated in these general
areas are: sculpture, ceramics, historic doll cos-
tumes, photography, serigraphy, internal carving
in plastics, commercial art techniques, leather
work, angora spinning and knitting, copper re—
pousse, arts in the little theatre, architectural dis-
plays, paintings in all media, jewelry craft, china
painting, arts and crafts in schools, displays of
work done by individuals and club members. Space
does not permit a complete listing of the variety of
arts and crafts that are entered.

In addition to the school, group and individual
entries, featured demonstrations attract large
crowds. These events include techniques in ma-
rine painting, starting with a blank canvas and
ending with a sailboat racing scene; portraits in
oils and pastels using live models, the modeling

of a portrait head in water clay, the sculpturing
of a figure in oil clay; a complete serigraphy dem-
onstration (the process of making a whole silk
screen print) ; a very entertaining demonstration
of cartooning and also a demonstration in ceramic
sculpture.

During the afternoon, crowds gather to see a
modern dance demonstration presented by a group
of high school girls, square dancing by elemen-
tary school children and national dances in au-
thentic costumes presented by the Polish Falcons.

In conjunction with the art festival publicity
program, a poster contest for elementary and high
school children is held. After the final judging
of entries, all posters are distributed for display
in stores and other public places throughout the

town.

In an effort to obtain excellent slides and photo-
graphs for a permanent record, a photography
contest is held on the day of the festival, and local

merchants donate photography equipment as
prizes. The large collection of photographs and
slides becomes the property of the recreation com—

mission and is used for advance publicity.

An art festival is one of the most stimulating
activities a recreation department can initiate. It
draws widely upon local resources and coopera-
tion, and enriches not only individual lives, but
the life of the whole community.

More About Insurance

IN WISCONSIN, recreation executives cooperate
in a state-wide Wisconsin Recreation Associa-
tion Athletic Sports Accident Insurance Plan,
drawn up with the Illinois Mutual Casualty Com-
pany. Individual policies cover injuries of partici-
pants regularly registered in recreation activities,
sustained while practicing or engaging in activity
or while in transportation to or from activity away
from home only. Approved activities are listed,
each with its own premium, and coverage is re-
stricted to participation in only the specifically
sanctioned activity for which the individual has
paid the premium. Only those who wish to do so
need take out the insurance. Application blanks
are obtained from the oliice of the recreation de—
partment and premiums are paid to the director
of recreation when the application blank is filed.
Oflicial claim for an injury must be tiled by the
injured on special forms obtained from the direc-
tor, and an itemized bill or statement is secured

578

from the attending physician and mailed with
proof of accident claim. This plan is working suc-
cessfully throughout the state.

In Manitowoc, \Visconsin, for instance, an ordi-
nance was adopted by the Common Council in
November, 1949 for a local Liability and Insur—
ance Fund to be maintained and administered for
the payment of all claims for injury to persons for
which the city or any governmental department
is legally liable and not otherwise covered by
\Vorkmen’s Compensation insurance. The vari-
ous departments of the city pay into this fund.
The insurance covers only liability in case of acci-
dents in which the city can be proved negligent,
however, and covers participants in recreation pro-
grams only to that extent. Therefore, all such
participants are urged to carry the foregoing in—
surance offered by the Wisconsin Recreation As—
soci‘ation.

RECREATION

A strong plea for more community recreation services for teen-agers.

Wm - me 511001!”

N THE FEBRUARY fifteenth issue of Look mag-
I azine there appears a startling article, “How
Four Teen—agers Met Death,” which is a true
story written by George Mills, a staff writer of the
Des M oines Register. When the story originally
appeared in that newspaper, hundreds of thou—
sands of adults in the midwest were shocked out
of their complacency. It is a story that will be re—
printed again and again in the hope that it will
avert the similar tragedies which are becoming all
too common throughout this country. It is a story
that indeed should make every community stop
and think long and seriously about a recreation
center for teen—agers.

Briefly, it is this. Four young boys, about
eighteen years old, met at Skelley’s Lunch Room
in Hampton, Iowa, one recent evening. This is
where the teen—agers hang out. Francis Elwood
had plowed all day; big George Kibsgaard had
helped his father move an electric meter in their
home. Russell Jensen, young-looking for his age,
had done chores around the little house where he
lived with his father; while likable, redheaded
Lloyd Casey came over from the Hampton C kron-
icle where he worked as a printer’s apprentice. Al-
though they did not know it when they gathered
to have some fun, they had a date with death in
three hours time.

In two other homes, boys ate at the family
tables, got ready to go out for a while.

As the minutes ticked away, the cast slowly
gathered for the tragedy. The question came up:
Shall there be any girls in on this?

Little Jane Maneely, sixteen, had been along at
other times when Lawrence “Sleepy” Muhlen-
bruck and George Kibsgaard had laughingly darted
out of the grasp of death. She was not to be on
hand this time, however, for she had a job of tak-
ing care of children for the evening.

“Sleepy” had a 1936 Ford parked outside; Kibs-
gaard’s old Olds was there. George was perhaps

MARCH 1950

an even bigger highway menace than “Sleepy,”
but neither of them—or any of the other boys—-
indulged in liquor. Their idea of a good time was
to play “swerve” with cars going sixty or seventy
miles an hour, or to speed down the highway at
night without lights.

On this Tuesday night, therefore, the two cars
dashed along Highway 3; the throttle of the Olds,
going west, was wide open at seventy—three.
George had two passengers; while speeding east
was “Sleepy’s” car, with four passengers. At least
one car had the lights off. The highway patrol
says one car was eighteen inches over the middle
of the road, the other fourteen. That’s the story
the marks tell on the concrete. Unless somebody
swerved, a collision was inevitable. Whether the
drivers didn’t see each other or were testing each
other is uncertain. Nobody swerved.

Francis Elwood and George died immediately;
Lloyd Casey and Jensen died in the hospital. The
others were badly hurt, “Sleepy” among them.
The accident toll of four dead and four injured
shook the Franklin County seat to its foundations.

At an interview later, Jane gave an insight into
how the Hampton teen—agers tear around in cars.
“Rat racing,” as described by the high school
bobby soxer, “is one car racing to pass another.”
Another game called “chicken” is that of trying to
see who has more nerve when two cars are speed-
ing toward each other. The driver who turns out
to avoid a head—on crash is “chicken.” Jane’s de-
scription of local teen-ager driving was verified by
signed statements from two of the boys.

Hampton teen-agers believe that adults are
partly to blame for what happened. Said one:
“We ain’t got nothing to do in this town. All
there is to do is run around in cars and chase
each other. We can’t even play a game of pool
without getting kicked out.

“Why don’t they start a recreation center for
us?”

579

 

Leaning on toy town’s
service
structor gives advice.

station, in-

An illustrated safety
storytelling class Iner-
rapt

its

attention.

 

A Izo-foot-square miniature citj
with marked streets, sidewalk
crosswalks, stop signs and an i
tersection with a full-size tra
light which flashes red, yello
and green, is teaching pre-sch
children of Mansfield, Ohio, t
lessons of safety. + + The to,
land village is part of a prog
called Safety Town. Fred
Boals, Mansfield traffic commi
sioner, started Safety Town in
1937. Since then his project h
gained nationwide recognition. 1— + Mr. Boals based his progra
on the premise that accident prevention should be taught childr
at the earliest possible age—as soon as the child is old enough
go to the neighborhood grocery or the house across the stree
According to him, memorization and “don’t” orders have litt
effect in teaching children safety. His program stresses practic
in safety through real-life situations. + + A child learns som
thing he likes four or five times easier than something he does
like. Blansfield children who attend Safety Town each summe
before entering school for the first time, learn safety rules
practices and have fun doing it. They act out dangerous tra
situations on tricycles on the streets of the toyland village. Th
sing safety songs, listen to safety stories, play safety games, a
learn safety education through art projects. At the conclusi
of the two-week course, during which they learn a safety rule
day, they receive an engraved certificate. + + Safety Town
supported financially by the Mansfield Police Recreation Cl
and the city recreation department. These funds provide a scho
bus and driver for transporting children to and from the sessio
in addition to paying for two instructors. + -!— The town w
built by Roy Gale, a sign painter who has donated his services ev
since the project began. A local police officer attends the sch
once a week to talk to the children and prove to them that
ninth safety rule (Ask the polic
man for help; he is your frien
is good advice. + + Tracing t
success of the Safety Town pr
gram since its inception, one fin
that up to the present time no
of the children who has attend
the course has ever been involv
in any kind of an automobile ac
dent. Is it any wonder that
parent reading a Safety Tox
notice immediately enrolls

 
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

child in the program? + + The
fact that the children’s enthusi-
asm usually continues late into
the second week of the school
attests to the program’s ability to
keep the students’ interest. Dur-
ing its twelve years it has proved
the answer to minimizing child
accidents—Reprinted from C 0—
lumbm Dispatch Sunday maga-
Zine-++++++++
In a letter, Stanley W. Kamen,
Director of Recreation in Mans- Y

, , , . oungsters learn to
field, sends us the followmg 1nterest1ng facts regarding the above cope with tragic in
project: Mr. Boals has issued a book of instructions (copyrighted their miniature city.
1940) which describes the layout and equipment, daily schedule,
and so forth. + + The recreation department employs two play
leaders to supervise Safety Town. The play leaders conduct the
program using Mr. Boals’ book of instructions as a guide. + +
The recreation department also introduced the idea of presenting a
certificate to the boys and girls upon completion of the course.
—|— + In 1948, miniature automobiles were used but this proved
to be unsatisfactory in that the boys and girls were too big for the
automobiles. Also, maintenance of the automobiles was a constant
annoyance. This year, we decided to use tricycles (purchased by
the Police Recreation Club), and the change proved to be quite
satisfactory. + + Publicity for Safety Town is the responsibility I
of the recreation department. Parents of boys and girls registered
to attend school for the first time in the fall are informed of Safety
Town through our ofhce. + + In 1948, 510 boys and girls were
registered for school; 310 attended Safety Town. In 1949, 496
boys and girls were registered for school; 300 attended Safety
Town. + + The program was broken down into five sessions,
two weeks in duration per session. Two school districts were as-
signed to each scheduled session. The season’s schedule was pub-
licized by the local paper and the local radio station. + —|— Safety

 

 
 

Town was not in operation dur— This ride acquaints
ing the war years. The program Dre-schoolers with
was resumed in 1948, supervised Safety TOW“ area-

by the recreation department.
The recreation department was
organized in 1947, result of the
seventy-one per cent majority
vote in 1946. + -|— The Safety
Town program is very popular
in Mansfield. It would be to the
advantage of other communities
to try a similar project.

 

"What are college students really like?
The University of Minnesota is trying to find
out. The first step is finding out what they
do with their out-ot-class time. A staff in
the dean of students' otlice is hard at work
adding up answers that 4.200 students—a
careful cross-section—gave to long ques-
tionnaires about themselves. There are some

hints now—chief among them that college

students are pretty much like other people,

particularly when it comes to the method of

spending an idle hour."—-—Minneapolis Sun-
day Tribune. October I949.

5 THE SOCIAL DIRECTOR in a student union, I
Awork continuously in, with and for a student
activities program and, though we are in a con-
stant process of evaluating separate social events
and activity projects, when I started to put my
thoughts about evaluation on paper, I realized how
little of an academic nature I really know about
it. Many people and many studies are concerned
with evaluating counseling services, but evidently
little has been done on the Specific problem of
judging the effectiveness of a school activities pro-
gram.

In discussing student union programs, it might
be well to jot down the various areas to be con—

sidered :

1. Total program and the administration

2. Total program and the student body

3. Total program and the student union officers and
workers '

4. Individual project and the student body

’

3. Individual project and the student union
6. Individual project as a part of the whole

Perhaps a very logical question here would be,
“Is it necessary to evaluate?” The answer can be
found in the basic philosophy of a student union:
the union is a laboratory of living———it must be
constantly progressing in the provision of ade—
quate tools for the business of living; it is only
through examining the tools and testing the re-
sults that the laboratory can progress. Only

Dorothy Am; 01:01; i: .rocial director of Memorial
Union at Purdue Univerrity in Lafayette, Indiana.

582

 

STUDENT

through testing and proving, testing and discard—
ing can we ever hope to reach that type of pro-
gram which will provide the greatest good for the
greatest number.

It seems that, in the past three or four years,
this matter of evaluating programs has become in-
creasingly important. VVe’re all in the slow proc-
ess of returning to so-called normal “pre-war”
campuses, after the accelerated life of the war
years. Every union—and, in fact, every extra-
curricular activity—finds itself faced with the
problem of presenting a program of appeal to an
age group of anywhere from seventeen to twenty-
seven; to married couples and to confirmed bach—
elors and spinsters; to students from every type of
social background, financial rating, and extracur—
ricular interest. It is essential that we provide a
suitable calendar of activities for as large a num-
bu as possible. To do this, we must constantly
evaluate the total program and each part of the
program which makes up the whole.

Following through on the philosophy of the
union—each individual worker in the union should
carry with him when he leaves some additional bit
of knowledge in the art of living—our evaluation
is of prime importance in determining that our
objectives are proper; that the individual is being
given an opportunity to grow as much as he de-
sires.

Students themselves recognize the importance
of extracurricular activities and Lloyd—Jones re-
ports that, in a study conducted by interviewing
100 students from tw0 schools to determine the
most important elements in the development of
character, extracurricular activities are listed sec-
ond only to home in frequency as the most influ-
ential elements.

Specifically, objectives for activities programs
fall into two main categories: developing a better

RECREATION

To ascertain the value of college union social activities.*

person in terms of democratic living and develop-
ing a person with good mental health. These gen-
eral objectives mean that there shall be equal op—
portunity for all students to participate; that the
general welfare of the student body and of the
school shall be promoted; that there shall be suf-
ficient variety of activities to permit everyone to
exercise his talents and to satisfy his interests.

If we are agreed that it is necessary and wise
to evaluate our programs, the next logical ques-
tion is “how ?”. And the very logical answer is
returned—“by written report”. But here it is
necessary to define terms again; an evaluation of
a program or a job must never be confused with
a job description or a job analysis. True, we want
a description of the event and an analysis of the
duties involved, but also we want to know how
well those duties were performed; what contribu—
tion the event made to the student body; was it a
program of which the union can be proud?

To be valid, the student activities program must
be conceived in the service of and intimately
geared to the needs, interests, and purposes of the
uniquely constituted student body in question. Of
course, programs for evaluating any student ac—
tivity in a given situation must include, in addi-
tion to objectives, a means of analyzing the needs
and interests of the student to be served, and a
means of determining how well the program al-
ready in operation meets these needs and interests.
A few general criteria which might be of help in
setting up evaluation procedure are:

I. Is the program, so far as possible, a student or-
ganized, administered, and supervised program?
2. Does the program embrace the interests of the
entire student body?

3. Are activities encouraged according to accepted

 

*Excerpted from paper delivered at annual convention of the
Assocmtion of College Unions in Colorado Springs, 1949.

MARCH 1950

PROGRAM EVALUATION

DOROTHY ANN OLSON

social standards?

4. Is there effective integration of the developing
individual?

5. Are past experiences evaluated by participants,
administrators, and supervisors?

For evaluating an entire program: over a period
of time, there is the questionnaire for distribution
to specified groups. You might try a “man on the
street” broadcast or newspaper interview in your
favorite afternoon coffee shop for on-the-spot
Opinions. For a reasonably true picture of union
events, talk with the casual union-goers, the peo-
ple who have nothing to do with the planning of
activities—“find out how and why they like a par-
ticular program; did they come just because there
wasn’t anything else to do—or were they really in-
terested? Would they come again for a similar
event? Why don’t they come around more often?

Interviewing a selected group of students, such
as the leaders of all extracurricular activities,
brings interesting results.

Questionnaires sent to the office of student af-
fairs, the dean of women, the dean of men, the
heads of residence units, will tend to give a
broader, over-all picture of the value of particular
programs in the light of the total campus extra-
curricular program.

Seeking the advice of an expert, or one who is
already working with a successful activities pro-
gram, is also a recognized technique.

Which of these techniques is best must be de-
termined partially by the local situation and par-
tially by the result you are seeking. If you want
to know immediately whether a specific activity
is worthwhile, probably careful interviewing of
students concerned with that activity will yield the
best results in“the shortest time. If you feel that
the whole program of activities needs evaluating
and perhaps overhauling, the questionnaire to stu-

583

dent groups and other campus personnel pe0ple
might give you valuable information.

There seems to be no preference for one over
the other. Everywhere we are cautioned that eval-
uations, in order to be valid must be objective, i.e.,
we as appraisers must not be looking for specific
things or seeking to prove success or failure. \Ve
must be sure that our methods do not present us
with an unreliable result. This is, of course, ex-
tremely difficult because in most evaluations we
must rely on the opinions of people who usually
evaluate subjectively.

\Ve have been thinking, up to now, of evaluat-
ing a program of activity chiefly as a one-time
process—as a research project in which we are
vitally interested. But we should also think about
evaluations as part of the ongoing process of the
program. \V hen your group has completed a
major program, do you and the executive commit-
tee of the group examine the affair closely and
critically to see what its successes were and where-
in it might be improved if a similar program were
to be presented again? In our work it is axiomatic
that students learn as much sometimes from mak-
ing mistakes as they learn by success, but do we
use the technique of correcting mistakes often
enough?

Also, as part of your program of continuous
evaluation, when your group is considering some
project which has become “traditional,” do you
get them to consider its values from the stand-
point of their current situation and to decide
whether actually the “traditional” thing is meet-
ing present needs?

These then are the “ways and means” of pro-
gram evaluation; they may be either written or
oral, spontaneous or the product of considerable
thought. They may be direct reports from the
participating students and the staff of the build-
ing, or they may be indirect reports from the par-
takers in the event and from deans, head residents,
and other personnel people on campus.

Use of Results

Pre-evaluation and postevaluation are both very
important to the whole process. It is all very well
to go to great lengths and much effort to plan a
good program and to make a complete evaluation
of it, but that evaluation is of no use if it isn’t
used. Better not to make any report than to write
a full report and file it away; reports are written
to be used. If it is true that we learn by experi-
ence (of others as well as our own), then every
dance, every tournament, every reception will show
the results of our learning because we used the

584

evaluation of the previous event, and tried to plan
a little better, to profit by previous mistakes.

When the event is over and the written evalu-
ation is to be submitted, it should be done in light
of both the previous report and the present func-
tion, with the result that the combination of pre-
evaluation and postevaluation should provide a
rather successful, eventful future.

And now we come to the “who ?”. “7 ho is to do
this evaluation? Of course, there is the general
chairman who, at the close of an event, will make
a written report covering the work done by each
of his subcommittees and himself. A reverse form
of your report sheet, suited to your own situation,
might well serve here. Then, the governing body
of your union will further evaluate the event in the
light of the total and long-range picture.

The role of the social director is not to be over-
looked in the area of program evaluation. Those
of you who have such a person on your staff know
that she is a vital cog in the wheel; those of you
who have new operations, or are still in the plan-
ning stage, should think very seriously about in-
cluding such a person in your plans. She should
be an individual who, by either experience in stu-
dent work or by training, realizes that a lab in-
structor in this so-called “laboratory of living”—
the union—is an educational influence of greater
or less degree. (For those of you who contem-
plate finding this person, be sure to investigate the
available young women in any one of several
schools which specialize in student personnel
training.)

 

Carefully consider the meaning of evaluation—
not only what the dictionary says it is, but also
what it means to your total program. Consider it
in the light of what it is, how it’s done, and who
does it—and then remember these few words by
Vachel Lindsay:

There’s machinery in the butterfly

There’s a mainspring in the bee

There’s hydraulics to a daisy

And contraptions to a tree.

If we could see the birdie

That makes the chirping sound

\Vith psychoanalytic eyes

‘With X-ray scientific eyes

1W e could see the wheels go round.

And I hope all men who think like this
' will soon be underground!

RECREATION

FRANK A. STAPLES

Plastic Canasta Tray

ANASTA TRAYS in plastic are attractive and
C practical, and can be used when playing gin
rummy and similar card games as well as for the
game of canasta. Making them is easy and can be

a good arts and crafts project.

 

Cut Plastic—From %” thick clear or colored plexiglas or
lucite, cut with a hacksaw a rectangular piece of plastic 9”
wide and I 3” long. Mark off the spaces as shown in the
diagram. Cut lines with a hacksaw and ——0—0—0

with coping saw. Sand all edges to remove saw marks, using
either a medium file or sandpaper.

 

Make Wooden Jigs—~A base jig block is 73” thick by 8”
wide by 11” long. Then four %” X %” pieces are nailed in
place as shown in sketch. Two of these pieces are 6” long
and the other two 8%” long.

Two additional jig blocks are needed to form the bases of
the two compartments which hold the cards. These two
blocks are 2%” wide, 3%” long and 2” thick. All jig pieces
should be made from soft wood and sanded smooth.

Form Tray—Remove masking from plastic. With sand-
paper, smooth any rough edges. Heat plastic in oven 275° to
300° F., being careful to use soft gloves while handling the
hot material. When it is sufficiently heated, it will bend like
soft rubber.

Wave in air for a second or two to cool outside surfaces
slightly; then place in base jig block as shown in sketch. Hold
the other two jig blocks in position until plastic is cool. If
your first attempt to bend the shape evenly is not successful,
reheat the plastic and try again. You can keep reheating it as
many times as needed, without harming it.

After the plastic is cool, remove it 'from the jigs and it is
ready for use. To clean, wash it in very soapy lukewarm
water. (Read about canasta in February RECREATION.)

Frank Staple: Ira: been director of art: and craft:
for the National Recreation Auociation since 1955.

 

MARCH 1950 585

They forget that they are on a television show . . .

“Fun for the Young”

THE RED LIGHT on the camera
glows, the director smiles reassur-
ingly, and Xenia Nail, of the Com—
munity \Vorkshop of Oklahoma City, whispers:
“Now, children, we’re going to have fun!”

“It’s Fun for the Young!” calls out the \VKY-
TV announcer, and the show is on! The children,
with the help of Mrs. Nail, carry on from there.
Not only do they have fun, but they teach thou-
sands of other boys and girls how to construct the
crafts they themselves are demonstrating on the
fine television show p0pu1ar in the Oklahoma City
area.

Step by step the craft is completed and, at the
end of the show, the finished product is proudly
displayed by each boy and girl. There is reason
for pride, for the article itself, besides being use-
ful or entertaining, has been made of materials
that cost very little, if anything—twine, spools,
paper sacks, or other materials which every mother
has in her home and would gladly collect for the
purpose of entertaining her own child.

Before the viewer is aware of it, the half hour
is over; each boy and girl has performed capably
before the cameras and microphones, most of them
in their first video role.

“Fun for the Young” has firmly established it-
self in the hearts of Oklahoma City television fans,
both young and old; and though it was designed
primarily for the purpose of educating the very
young in the art of handcrafts, it has entertain-

 

Autbor Mary A gne: Tbompmn i: the continuity editor
for Radio Station WKY in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

586

MARY AGNES THOMPSON

ment features for adults as well.

\VKY-TV automatically thought of Xenia Nail
when it began its plans for this television show.
Mrs. Nail has been director of the Oklahoma City
Community Workshop for two years and, during
that time, has taught hundreds of adult volunteers
who, in turn, teach others crafts and a variety of
activities.

It’s interesting and inspiring to watch both the
preparation for the “Fun for the Young” televi-
sion program and the show itself. Before it goes
on, Mrs. Nail gives her young charges very little
coaching regarding their conduct on the show,
since she wants them to be as natural as possible.
Instead, she impresses upon each of them the im-
portance of completing the craftwork as well as
possible. Then she gathers the group—usually six
or eight children, each group in an age category
ranging from four to nine—before the cameras
and gives each boy and girl the necessary mate-
rials. These often consist of objects that can be
gathered out-of—doors, sometimes real Howers or
twigs, as well as of materials found around the
house.

They chat enthusiastically until the children be—
come so interested that they forget that they are
going to be on a television show. By the time the
“You’re On” signal is given, the group, centered
by Mrs. Nail, is at ease and having a good time.
Each child introduces himself when the program
begins; and then a finished crafts article is dis-
played along with the materials that are going to
be used by each child in preparing another.

Step by step the duplicate article is made, with

RECREATION

 

the cameras being focused upon it in close-ups
for the vital steps, enabling the television audience
to follow the verbal and visual instructions.

“The camera men and the engineers are all
young themselves, most of them in their twenties,
and their interest and enthusiasm give a boost to
the program,” Mrs. Nail observes. “They’re ever
alert to catch the winning and bright expressions
on the children’s faces.”

Sometimes it is the expression on the face of a
small Cub Scout, wielding a brace and bit, ob-
livious of the fact that his contorted face is a close-
up on the television screen. Perhaps it is a tiny
five-year-old, biting her tongue as she clips away
at her papers with a pair of scissors, amusing a
grown-up audience and entirely unconscious of it.
Youth seems to predominate in every phase of the
show, and that youthful eagerness can be credited
for much of its success.

On each program, at least two activities are in-
corporated that lit the particular age group par-
ticipating; sometimes one of these is a stunt or
game that can be played at home. There are also
special activities for various holiday seasons, such
as Halloween or Christmas. For example, during
last year’s Halloween program, hand-out bags,
masks, noise-makers and such decorations were
made. At Thanksgiving time, the program’s young
cast occupied the period with the creation of In-
dian headdresses, apple turkeys and yellow squash
ducks. During the New Year’s program, party
hats were made from newspaper. One young he-
man refused to don his paper hat, saying: “It
looks like a woman’s hat!” However, upon being

MARCH 1950

Mrs. Nail and four participants prepare for television.
The children become very engrossed in their projects.

assured that it really looked more like a drum-
major’s shako, he was ready to wear it proudly.
At Christmas, the children were taught to make
Santas out of an apple and an eggshell, as well as
other decorations and gifts for mother and dad.

There are many things to which the success of
WKY-TV’S “It’s Fun for the Young” can be at-
tributed. Economy of props is one item. News-
papers, yarn, beads, Clothespins, felt hats and
spools make it easy for an interested mother to
supply her own child with the necessary items.
Another reason for its appeal is the unconscious
ability of children to put on a good act, especially
when they are not aware that they are doing so.
The boys and girls on the program are relaxed
and natural, and become even more so as their in-
terest progresses. The third reason, and an im—
portant one as far as WKY—TV is concerned, is
the capability of the show’s guiding light, Xenia
Nail, who learned early in her own work that chil-
dren can be entertained easily and economically;
and that those children whose minds and hands
are busy are essentially happy and well-behaved.

Television is a natural medium for many recre-
ation activities and the above program demon-
strates the possibilities of this new program device.
The prime requisite, of course, is finding an eager
and capable leader with a vital interest in the
young. The talent and the materials are easily sup-
plied, and the audience interest in this type of
television show is assured since it appeals to both
old and young. It is educational and recreational,
and this kind of fun can be duplicated by any
television station anywhere.

m2

Canadian Friends !

We are very happy to announce that arrange-
ments have just been completed with the G. R.
VVelch Company Limited, of 1149 King Street
West, Toronto, for the exclusive handling in
Canada of RECREATION magazine subscriptions
and orders for all other publications of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. Canadian friends
who wish to do so may write directly to the \Velch
Company for a special publication list.

587

THE NATIONAL SECTION
OF WOMEN’S ATHLETICS

of the

   

American Association for Health,

Physical Education, and Recreation

_/4nnounced 

   
   
  
 
  
  

, Amtmc  2.;

Beginning August 1, 1949 the OHicial  
publisher for all the publications and for

OHiCial Sport Guides Of the National

Section on Women’sAthletics willbe the 5 rt!
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEALTH,

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION Available

of the NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIA-

TION instead of A. S. Barnes 8: CO. Thru Leading

Athletic Goods
Distributors

O o O
n m
nv FINIST [JV 1w: FIILD r
HANU'ICTU‘ING COM'INT I ST. LOUIS 3 MO.

All orders should be addressed to:

    

National Section on Women’s Athletics

1201 Sixteenth Street, Northwest
Washington 6, D. C.

 

Newest DeveIOpment in Checking Room Equipment

Plastic Screen Wire Bag

l. Indetinite long life. Tests three times stronger than canvas.

2. Durable hardwood hanger built in. No hangers to buy. No
replacements can ever be necessary.

3. Contents in bag are always visible.

4. Sanitary. To recondition this bag simply shalte out the dust. dip
in your chlorinated pool water and hang in the sun for a

m... .l 9"_ few minutes.

A; ‘ 5. Economical. No laundry costs. Low original cost. Bags three

an...“ _ 7 years old show no wear.
WW » .
jug“ 6. Clothes can be stored as neatly as in your own closet at home.

1:3"93‘ Clothes are not rolled as in basltets.

H 3 J‘ ' 7. Checking room space is conserved as well as labor Ito administer.

nasuawaui‘
a ‘ ‘ .

--.....~¢- Upon request we will mail free of charge
' ' specification of racks, pins, etc., for the
entire system, together with the names

of the many cities that have adopted
this checking method.

PRICES: FOB LOS ANGELES

$1.60 each without pants hanger.
15c. extra with pants hanger.

N. B.--Most pools order 10% of bags
with the pants hanger.

SUN AIRED BAG

Potent Pending
8669 FENWICK STREET
HENRY R. LEFEBVRE, Manager SUNLAND, CALIFORNIA

 

588 RECREATION

At Headquarters . . .

Rose Jay Schwartz

UOICK STEPS IN the 'offices of the National
Recreation Association usually herald the ap-
proach of energetic Rose Jay Schwartz—who be—
lieves that one should never walk if one can run.
Smiling, but invariably hurrying, she is a woman
who knows how to be in nine different places at
once. She’s never too busy for a good laugh, how-
ever, and the sound of her infectious giggle often
is a means of locating her, should a fellow worker
decide to track her down.
When representatives from business firms and
other organizations, who have had dealings with

Mrs. Schwartz only over the telephone, meet her-

face—to-face, it is amusing to see their first reaction.
Apparently, they have been expecting a larger
woman, perhaps someone who more nearly fits
their idea of a female business executive. Imagine
their amazement, therefore, when they find them-
selves confronted by someone small, feminine and
with a twinkle in her eyes. They soon find, how-
ever, that her size is no criteria of her ability to
be firm in business matters.

Her story is an interesting one. In the year
1913 a very young girl came to the National Rec-
reation Association. She had unusual ability, was
able to carry responsibility far beyond her years,
and soon became a very important part of the work
of the Association.

At the time of the First World War, she was one
of a small group of individuals carrying the central
responsibility for the War Camp Community Serv-
ice assumed by the National Recreation Associa-
tion for the War Department, the Navy Depart-
ment, and the war industries. Much that was done
by the National Recreation Association during the
important and trying days of the First World War
could not have been done except for the able and

MARCH 1950

 

devoted energy of a few who worked early and late
to make sure that all emergencies were met.

For a period after that Mrs. Schwartz was busy
with her own family and with the bringing up of
her children, though she did find time for much in
the way of volunteer service.

Later, when she was free to do so, she returned
to the National Recreation Association, where she
has carried a very heavy responsibility as business
manager. Mrs. Schwartz has had a special interest
in the recreation publications. Much of the at-
tractiveness of the special publications has been
attributed to her own work to improve their ap-
pearance as well as contents. Through the years,
also, she has had an important part in making
RECREATION magazine more attractive in appear-
ance and more serviceable in content.

At Recreation Congresses she has done a great
deal to give service to local recreation systems
through the commercial exhibits and through the
educational exhibits. Material brought together
from different localities has helped delegates to see
what is being done in other cities and to obtain
suggestions for their own programs.

Mrs. Schwartz helps greatly with the interpre-
tation of the work of the recreation movement,
both national and local. Few people realize all that
is involved in 'drafting budgets, in keeping expendi-
tures in line with the budgets, in handling the de-
tails with reference to these.

During the period from October 1947 to March
1950, Mrs. Schwartz has carried a heavy executive
responsibility as Acting Executive Secretary in
relating the parts of the work of the Association
to each other.

Through the years she has carried heavy gen-
eral responsibility in dealing with special emergen-

589

cies in all parts of the work. There is very little
that has happened during the last thirty years in
which Mrs. Schwartz has not had a part. Sugges—
tions have come from her with reference to nearly
every part of the work. Her mind is constantly
active in thinking of ways and means whereby the
recreation movement in specific localities and
throughout the nation can be built up, and always
she is interested personally in the people who have
a part in the movement in any way. She has been
particularly successful in carrying a load of respon-
sibility and yet not letting herself be weighed down
by the details, and in being able to keep smiling

even when there are difficulties to be overcome.

In any great movement, a very large part of
what make it effective does not appear in the pub—
lic eye because the work is so quietly and unosten-
tatiously carried. Mrs. Schwartz is one of those
who has had a part in helping to build nearly every
part of the recreation movement. No task has
been too big or too little. No hours have been too
long. All of her experiences in various fields and
undertakings have been:used to throw light on the
problems of the Association and to further the
progress that comes through the recreation leisure-
time movement.

KG=92

German Leadership Prejth

HE NATIONAL ‘WELFARE ASSEMBLY of New

York City, through its Youth Division and
education-recreation agencies, has accepted the re-
sponsibility of planning visits for more than 125
German leaders who are interested in American
community council planning, youth work, adult
education, citizen participation, civic education,
camping, sports and physical education. They will
begin arriving in the United States about the first
of March and will be here for six months. One of
these groups is comprised of fourteen leaders who
are interested primarily in studying recreation pro-
grams of public and private agencies. A repre-
sentative of the National Recreation Association
has been present at a committee meeting designed
to make plans for the most effective use of these
leaders’ time while in this country.

Following an orientation period of about two
weeks, to be spent in \Vashington and New York
City, they will be assigned, generally in groups of
two, to localities for periods anywhere from two
weeks to two or three months for observation,
training and participation as volunteer staff work-
ers. Each of the Germans will receive a daily al—
lowance so that there will be no expense to the
locality cooperating in the program.

The Youth Division already has sent letters to
a number of localities which c00perated with the
project last year, asking if they will participate
again in 1930. Many of these letters have been
addressed to councils of social agencies who pre-
sumably are interested in the recreation group as
well as in two or three of the other groups of youth
leaders. Letters have also been sent within the last

590

few days to a number of local recreation executives
asking their cooperation. Some of the cities have
been suggested for short visits, others for longer
periods. It is hoped that, while in a community,
the German leaders may not only have an oppor-
tunity to observe carefully methods used in munici-
pal and county recreation programs, but also to
participate in local leadership training opportuni-
ties and to observe the work of the private recrea-
tion agencies. In a number of cities, the superin-
tendent of recreation will be asked to accept respon-
sibility for the leaders and for directing their pro-
gram while in the city.

Last year, forty-three youth leaders from Ger-
many visited the United States to observe youth
work.* The leaders were selected by American staff
in Germany in cooperation with German commit-
tees, and came from a variety'of organizations as
well as from the military government.

During their visit, certain aspects of American
life made a deep impression on them and were noted
again and again in reports and evaluation sessions.
For example, the Germans were very interested in:

The Americans themselves; the friendly infor-
mal relationships among people.

The active participation of large numbers of men
and women in community affairs, especially of
those who carry heavy responsibility as volunteers.

The way people of different organizations and
religious, political and ethnic groups work together.

The way Americans encourage discussion of
“even the most ticklish and disagreeable problems.”

 

Wand "A New World," October 1949 issue of Magnum—Ed.)

RECREATION

 

Helen Malone and one of her recreation workers se-
lect outstanding paintings for Sketch Club exhibit.

People in Recreation

by Paul Olsen

A Leader in Hospital Program

N 1947, when Mrs. Helen G. Malone took over

her duties as supervisor of recreation at Chi-
cago State Hospital, she found the program com-
pletely unorganized, with only scattered parties
and recreation classes for regressed patients. In
two years, she has built it to a round-the-clock
schedule of daily events with something of interest
for everyone.

Her recreation background began with Girl
Scout, public library and YWCA work in Oska-
loosa, Iowa, and progressed through teaching in
Chicago nursery schools and four years as an
American Red Cross hospital recreation worker
during and following the last war.

That Mrs. Malone cherishes her work and the
people with whom she works is strongly in evi-
dence in their schedule of current events. In addi-
tion to bingo parties, dance nights and baseball
games, the evening program includes two weekly
showings of new movies with 1,200 attending each
showing. Her daytime program consists of library
and journalism classes, discussion groups, folk
dancing, costume design and sewing, holiday dec-
orations and shadow boxes. Patients’ amateur
shows are presented quarterly in cooperation with
the Chicago chapter of the Stage Friends Club, a
group of retired stage folk who appear in half of
the production that they assist in devising and
staging.

Shadow boxes, outstanding decorative features
of the large recreation hall, contain hand-molded

Mr. Olren inrtmct: at Radio Inrtitnte of Chicago.
Hi: .rtory has full commendation of Dr. E. Dombrow-
Lei, Superintendent of the Chicago State Horpital.

MARCH 1950

figures whose costumes, background and lighting
are changed seasonally. Holiday decorations are
not the usual paper cut-outs, but painstakingly de—
signed frames of chicken-wire that are painted and
covered with glitter. Throughout the yuletide
season they add their cheer to the entire grounds.

The library project also includes -the coloring
of a hundred weekly activity programs—which are
posted in various parts of each building—and the
copy and art work for four hundred copies of
Light, the twenty-five page monthly magazine of
news and articles of interest to patients and hos-
pital staff.

When pinned down to naming the favorite of all
her recreation projects, each of which has its en-
thusiastic following among the patients, Mrs. Ma-
lone will usually select art as her “special baby”.
She probably chooses it because the Sketch Club
was the first and most difficult to inaugurate of her
many innovations.

In her work among psychiatric patients in army
and navy hospitals, Mrs. Malone found that cre—
ative art possessed therapeutic values equal to that
of music. Her arrival at Chicago State Hospital
marked the beginning of a full-scale test of her
theory. She selected a basement storage room for
use as her Sketch Club’s headquarters, and set to
work cleaning it out. It was painted in bright,
cheerful colors, and work tables and comfortable
benches and chairs were collected from other cel-
lars and attics on the grounds. Sturdy easels were
made in the hospital’s carpenter shop according to
her specifications.

After this preliminary hard work, it was dis-
heartening to be met with almost total indifference

591

New, idea-packed bulletin
on Recreational lighting

 

Softball Field

 

ERE’S a new, up-to-date bulletin that shows you how playgrounds
can easily be made more useful, more bozzrs,formorepeople, with the
help of efiicient Monotube steel floodlighting poles. Economically, too!

The bulletin pictures typical, highly effeCtive lighting in many differ-
ent playground and recreational areas. Diagrams show how floodlights
in varying number are easily attached to standard mounting arms. Other
useful information is also included.

Monotube tapered steel floodlighting poles come in standard
heights—20 to 40 feet—to correctly meet any recreational lighting
need. Strong, durable, attractive, they’re built to last for years!

If you’re planning to modernize or construct recrea-
tional areas, this new bulletin will give you helpful
ideas on modern lighting.

 
  

 

—-»...._.-~. --_‘~ . ‘ ---------
Horseshoe Court

I THE UNION METAL MANUFACTURING (0.

Canton, Ohio

Please send me your new bulletin No. Fl-102 on recrea-
tional lighting.

UNION METAL 

Address

Monotube Floodlightz'ng Poles

C ity—____Zo ne State

 

 

A Leader in Hospital Program

(Continued)

when the opening of the Sketch Club was an-
nounced. Scarcely a dozen patients showed up
for finger-painting instruction. Mrs. Malone
stayed with her idea, however, maintaining a so-
cial atmOSphere during class meetings.

Word—of-mouth publicity among the patients
soon began to swell the roster. There are now
over one hundred members meeting at two weekly
classes under the supervision of four recreation
workers. Their work is entirely creative, with no
teaching or criticism offered unless requested.

Outdoor classes are scheduled whenever possi-
ble, the patients painting from life or sketching
each other. Some, who never realized they had
talent, have found a new medium; others use the
activity as an outlet for frustration and worry.

Their work has been exhibited at Chicago’s
Roosevelt College and before prominent clubs and
study groups, with Dr. George Fenyes of Vienna,
now a staff psychiatrist at Chicago State Hospital,
lecturing on the paintings. He analyzes and eval-
uates them as an “unconscious art” that reveals
the fears and disturbances of the artist.

The paintings also are displayed in the wards,
with attendants filling out questionnaires on the
patients’ reactions. Some contributions are torn
down, while others have definite affection shown
toward them. All of them have been helpful in
tracing the distorted path to mental alienation
and its subsequent rerouting to sound rationality.

Chicago State Hospital’s third annual art show
was scheduled for November, with invitations ex-
tended to all patients, their families and the hos-
pital staff. Honored guests were representatives
of the Art Department of the Chicago Board of
Education, Chicago Red Cross Chapter workers
and interested Service Club members. There were
no awards since competition is not stressed in
the Sketch Club. The affair was strictly social,
with the exhibiting artists assisting in serving tea.

It’s a toss-up as to whether patients or guests
derived most enjoyment from the affair, but we’re
willing to bet that Helen Malone received her
share of silent satisfaction from a job well done.

FREE Table Tennis Information

Recreation Directors, Coaches, Scout Leaders, Y Directors,
others. Nothing to buy. NO entry Fee. Simply hold a Table

Tennis Tourney. We furnish awards, instructions, rules, etc.
FREE. Simply send a 1 cent postcard for information.

ALL-AMERICAN TABLE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
20 E. Jackson RM-SO Chicago 4, III.

 

MARCH 1950

UNIVERSITY Of COLORADO

BOULDER

Summer Quarter
JULY 24—AUGUS'I' 25

Or two Zl/z-week sessions: JULY Z4——AUGUST 8
AUG. 9—AUGUST 24

RECREATION LEADERSHIR WORKSHOP

under the direction of
HAROLD MEYER, University of North Carolino

Assisted by members of stoff of Nationol Recreotion
Association and resident staff of University of Colorado

21/2- to Five-Week Courses in:

Community Recreation, Administration of Recre-
ation, Western Square Dances, Round Dances,

Social Recreation, Arts and Crafts, Recreational
Games. ’

Five-Week Courses in:

Color and Design, Applied Design, Sculpture,
Speech, School Dramatics, Stage Craft, Adolescent
Psychology, Mental Hygiene.

Lectures, Concerts, Mountain Recreation, Steak Fries,

Motor Trips, Square Dances, Pack Trips, are a regular
feature of the Summer School.

For Information and Bulletins write to:

-------------————--—_---- - _ u u _----..--.-_‘.-.-——----—-—- — u u u u ---

DIRECTOR OF SUMMER QUARTER,
Dept. R M, University of Colorado,
BOULDER, Common:

Please send me (check) [I Summer Quarter Bulletin; D Gradu-
ate School Announcement; E] Creative Arts Brochure; E] Recrea-
tion Workshop Brochure.

Name .................................................................................. ..
Address .............................................................................. ..

Pitching Horseshoes

       
   
   
   
     
   
       
   

Complete horseshoe pitching outhts
and accessories, Oflicial and junior sizes
in 6 different styles. Shoes are drop-
forged, beautifully balanced, with un-
excelled dead-falling qualities. Ofli-
cially recognized throughout America.

Write for information on our complete
line of pitching shoes and accessories.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE
COMPANY

4614 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

- '593

     
     
 

for play capacity and SAFETY . . . nose
+1 . .

 

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

Climbing structure

0 No Other playground device provides so

much play capacity per square foot of ground
area and per dollar of cost as JUNGLEGYM!

That plus JUNGLEGYM’S safety record

of more than one hundred million child-play-
hours without one single serious accident
are two reasons Why you should give

the children of your playground the advantage
of JUNGLEGYM.

Write for Illustrated Bulletin on PORTER’S Streamlined line that will Save You Haney . . . Time

You can rely on PORTER for the basic units you need
for your playground . . .

 

No. 38 Combination Set

Compact, economical unit that's ideal
for limited ground areas. Six varieties
of funful, healthful activity.

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Saw

Sensationally new. Gives "ups-a-daisy"
ride 331/370 higher than conventional
see-saw, but with greater safety.

No. SB-F Playground Basketball Backstop
All-steel fan-shaped bank rigidly mount-

   

ed on steel mast and braced for per- No. 240 ,W_G°_R°und
No. 105 Six-Swing Set mane” serv'ce' Will safely accommodate 30 children at
Sturdy 'lZ-ft. frame held rigidly togeth- one time. Noiseless, no-wobble, no-
er with exclusive Porter fittings make sway operation. An en-
this a permanent, safe unit. gineering marvel. “ x

THE 1. LP CORPORATION
arrAWA, rumors

MANUFAUURERS OF PLAYGROUHD. ‘EYMNMIUM All!) SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENV

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYhV< CL'MB'NG

 

Reg.u.s.rar.orr. STRUCTURE

 

594 RECREATION

Recreation News
Ten Issues for RECREATION

This year, RECREATION magazine will be pub-
lished monthly in ten issues, beginning with April
1950, Volume Forty-four, Number One and elimi-
nating the July and August issues. The price will be
the same—three dollars for a year’s subscription.
However, the Year Book edition, usually appear-
ing in June, will no longer be included as an issue
of the magazine, but will be published as a sepa—
rate unit in the future.

Lebert Weir Memorial

Immediately after the death of Lebert H. Weir,
of the National Recreation Association, last No-
vember, his alma mater—Indiana University—and
his native state—Indiana—took steps to establish
a Lebert H. Weir Memorial Student Scholarship
and Loan Fund. The Indiana Municipal Park and
Recreation Association and the Indiana University
Recreation Society are donating funds to this proj-
ect, as is a variety of communities and individ—
uals in Indiana and other states.

Recognizing the ideals for which Mr. Weir was
known—he was a great scholar and humanitarian
—-and wishing to perpetuate them among the rec—
reation students the Indiana University Recreation
Society will give recognition each year to the grad-
uate“ student who most nearly exemplifies the ideals
of Mr. Weir.

In addition, funds from the loan and scholarship
fund will be used for emergency loans to recrea-
tion majors, a scholarship for the most outstanding
junior majoring in recreation, and fellowships for
worthy graduate recreation students.

It Won’t Be Long Now . . .

before the playground season starts. Did you
lose out last year by not subscribing for the
Summer Playground Notebook or by subscrib-
ing too late?

The 1950 price will be the same—$1.50 for
the series of twelve looseleaf bulletins, issued
weekly, beginning the latter part of April.

Many recreation departments send us a sub-
scription for each member of the playground
staff. Many subscribe for each local playground.
INhether you’d like one or twenty subscrip-
tions, act SOON! They go like the proverbial
hot cakes! '

P. S. If you missed out last year, and would

like the 1949 set, complete, a few sets are avail—
able for $1.50. Order NOW!

 

MARCH 1950

PROMPT SHIPMENTS of

LARSON
LEATHER

I-‘or EVERYTHING in leather—write
Larson Leathercraft Headquarters.

Dept. AR, 820 S. Tripp Ave.

Experienced leather workers will be interested
in our prompt delivery and wide variety, com-
prising the largest complete stock‘ of leather
and leathercraft supplies in America. We
offer moderate-priced tooling leathers as well
as t0p quality calfskins.

For beginners we have ready-cut projects with
free instructions for assembly. No tools and
no experience necessary.

Tools, materials and free instructions for making:

GLOVES KEY CASES

LINK BELTS 100 OTHER POPULAR ITEMS
PYROSTRIP BILLFOLDS

MOCCASINS WOOLSKIN MITTENS and
COIN PURSES TOY ANIMALS
COMB CASES

Send for FREE catalog

J. C. LARSON CO., Inc.

Chicago 24, Ill.

 

In every field of sport in Protes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Sottball. m Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation.
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports

Equipment is recognized as a hall—
marlr of quality and unvarying
performance.

 $702 ymam I’m. Egikjéit... 

(‘rucrnunlr 'a OHIO u s. A

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

Camping Magazine, December 1949
Day Camping Can Be Year-Round, Herbert Sweet.
Fifteen Public Relations Pointers, Howard P. Gal-
loway.
Parks and Recreation, December 1949
Realism in Park Planning, H. Oakman.
National Park Service Museum Planning, Walter
G. Rivers.
County F ishathon.
Maintenance Must—Santa Claus Lane.
American City, December 1949
Toledo’s New Community Building and Swimming
Pool, Ralph Girkins.
Perryopolis Receives an Inheritance.

Teaneck Recreation Department Brightens Life for
Older Folk, Too.

Taunton—"The Christmas City,” John F. Parker.
Architectural Record, January 1950

Space and People, Garrett Eckbo.
For Joyous Living and Five Children.
Designed for Vacations.
Journal of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation, January 1950

The Place of Camping in Education. A Committee
Report.

Community Recreation—Government Style, Lois B.
Baughman.

City Director of Health, Physical Education and
Recreation (cities of 25,000 or more).
Amencan City, January 1950
What Next for Our American Cities?

Four New Swimming Pools for Oakland, Dorothy
L. Lanyon.

America’s Largest City Park Has 14,000 Acres.

CUSTOM BUILT

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

 

 

 

      

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT

George Ekdahl and Associates
P. o. 474 HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

R E M I N D E R
Wiccaé 97am!
(XZZ/a/e/c'c (goguyunwz/

is built by
3k

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOI'I' RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 25th St.

Los Angeles 11, Calif.
*Reg. U. 5. Pet. 05'.

 

596

Books Received

Art of Board Membership, The, Roy Sorenson. Asso-
ciation Press, New York. $2.00.

 

Bibliography of Research Studies in Music Education,
1932-1948, \Villiam S. Larson. Music Educators

National Conference, Chicago, Illinois. $2.00.

Fun With Fabrics, Joseph Leeming. J. P. Lippincott
Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $2.50.

How To Be a Better Speaker, Bess Sondel. Science
Research Association, Chicago, Illinois. $.60.

International Folk Plays, edited by Samuel Selden.
The University of North Carolina Press, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina. $5.00.

In Woods and Fields, Margaret \Varing Buck. Abing—
don-Cokesbury Press, New York. Cloth, $3.00;

paper, $1.75.

Music Rooms and Equipment, Clarence J. Best. Music
Educators National Conference, Chicago, Illinois.

$1.50.

Ornamental Tin Craft, Chris H. Groneman. The
Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee, \Viscon—
sin. $3.00.

School Game Book, The, Margaret E. Mulac and

Marian S. Holmes. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $2.50.

The

Recreation Appeal
LearnAbout

TRAMPOLINING

Intense Participant-Spectator Interest . . .

Founded by NISSEN, Creator and Pio-
neer of America’s First Standard
TRAMPOLINE“

Write for FREE LITERATURE
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

“Big Jump" In

RYAN’S PLAYGROUND
DRY LINE MARKERS

BASEBALL . . . SOFTBALL
TRACK-PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES

ACCLAIMED AT THE c. R- 5.
AT SANTA BARBARA

* Force Peach—Instant Shutoff

Easy to operate and fill
* Holds one 50$: Sack—No muss

* No Brushes or Screens

H If R £1 $54.75
Delivered

Slightly Less in
the West

Three other models

Send to Dept. G
for booklet

H. 8. R. MFG. (20., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIFORNIA

 

RECREATION

New “Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

 

Fun With Fabrics kinds of boats and takes the reader out on the
water to enjoy the fun and adventure of being
afloat and of learning the correct and safe way of
doing things. This is a book which can be a valu-
able help to camp counsellors and recreation lead-
ers as well.

JoSeph Leeming. J. P. Lippincott Company, Phil-
adelphia. $2.50.

FOR CRAFTS LEADERS looking for simple, attrac-
tive and useful projects, many short-term, the
Leeming books are all excellent. The “Fun With”
series, including clay, magic, wood, leather, string,
paper, plastics, boxes, and so forth, are all bound
and priced alike, and are uniformly clear, inter- _
esting and useful. “Fun With Fabrics” is no Officers and DireCtors 0f the
exception. National Recreation Association
’ It is written for boys as well as for girls, with
suggestions for making a teepee, pup tent, knap-
sack, hammock, signal flags and moccasins only a

 

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of Direcrors
REV. PAUL MOORE, JR., First Vice-President

few of the projects of special appeal to boys. MRS. OGDEN 1. MILLS, Second Vice-President
' ' - ' SUSAN M. LEE. Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
Directions and draw1ngs are Simple, and the ADRIAN M. MASSIB' Treasurer ‘
suggestions include many toys, dolls, lapel gadgets Gusmvus T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus
and the like, all made from cloth or felt, and most JOSEPH PRENDERGAST’ Exam“ D‘mcm‘
requiring very little, if any, seW1ng. DIRECTORS
The sections on felt and on handkerchief tricks F. W. H_ ADAMS, New York N_ y_
are particularly good, as is the last chapter on F. GREGG BEMIS. BOSton. Mass.
. . . . . . . EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood. N. J.
fabric decoration, in which directions are given MRS. ROBERT WOODS Bum Washing,” D. C_
for textile painting, spatter painting, stick print- MR8. ARTHUR G. CUMMBR. Jacksonville. Fla.
in  kn t  d t i t d i d  1 WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York. N. Y.
g’ . ’ . O ’ e an W 5 ye Hg an no eum HARRY P. DAVISON. New York. N. Y.
block printing. ROBERT GARRETT. Baltimore. Md.
ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho. L. 1.. N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS,‘ Seattle. Wash.
. MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
Boating Is Fun MRS. CHARLES v. Hicxox, Michigan City. Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON. Bellport, L. 1., N. Y.
Ruth Brindze. Dodd 'Mead & Com an New SUSAN 1‘" 133' New Y°’k- N' Y-
Y ork $2 0 ’ p y, OTTO T. MALLERY. Philadelphia. Pa.
'  ' . CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.
. RUTH BRINDZE has always had fun With boats MRs. OGDEN L MILLS. Woodbury. N. Y.
- - - - REV. PAUL MOORE, JR.. Jersey City, N. J.
and now lives in her own, which she sails a SIGMUND STERN, San Fmdscm Calif.
large part of the year. Here, in a unique book for GRAN-r TITSWORTH, Noroton. Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

boys and girls, she describes how to handle all FREDERICK M_ WARBURG’ New York. N. Y.

MARCH 1950 5')?

