 

  

u.

I!

[r
I‘



 

‘-
. I

UFW :-

It’s almost Ghost-Time!

In case you're still wondering what to do about Halloween,

here is a list of helpful material published by the National
Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.

A Halloween Party For Children (MB 1696)
—This is a house-to-house party with dif-

ferent activities at every stop along the
route.........$.05

A Terrible Ghost Story (MB 267) —Chi|ls
and thrills abound in this short, but effec-

tive ghost story. . . . . . . $.05

Bring On Your Spooks (MB 1949l—Sugges-
tions for decorations and games . $.05

Community Celebrates Halloween, The (MP
278) -——-Contained here are reports from
many cities which sponsor Halloween pro-
grams for all ages. There are suggestions
for the whole community and for neigh-

borhood affairs . . . . . . $.15

For A Halloween Party (MB 580)—Games,
contests and fortunes for a party . $.05

Fun for Halloween (MP 141 l—Party plans
include decorations, invitations, pre-party
games, active games, quiet games, musical
activities, stories, dramatics and a good

bibliography . . . . . . . $.25

Games and Stunts for Halloween (MB 787)
—lnc|udes a dance, fortune telling, and

the like . . . . . . . . $.05
Halloween Fun (MB 1891 l—Suggested ac-
tivities from various cities . . . $.05

Halloween Gambols (MP 169l—A short play
in which the host is none other than
Mephistopheles and there are ghosts, gob-
lins and witches . . . . . . $.10

Lantern Parade (MB 1035)—A parade with
decorative lanterns, not Jack-O'-l.anterns

$.05

Masks—Fun to Make and Wear (MP 286)
——Combine a little handcraft activity with
Halloween and make some of these at-
tractive masks . . . . . . $.15

Novel Jack-O'-l.anterns (MB 1120l—Direc-
tions for making these unusual pumpkin
eye-fillers . . . . . . . . $.05

Outline For Halloween (MB 2003l—lafa-

yette, louisiana, plans for grade-parties
$.05

Paper Bag Masks (MB Slot—These masks
are easy to make, fun to wear, and can be

whipped up inaiitTy . . . . $.05

Parties for Special Days of the Year—Con-
tains party suggestions for Halloween. In-
cludes invitations, costume events, games

and stunts, dances . . . . . $.50
Peter Pumpkin Eater (MP 202)——A play
based on the old nursery rhyme . $.15

Promoting Halloween Parties (MB 1947)—
Suggestions from the National Halloween

Committee . . . . . . . . $.05
Witches and Elves Dance (MB 2004l—Simple
dances for all age groups . . . $.05

9

From RECREATION Magazine

Ghoulies and Ghosties!—September, 1946
issue.........$.35

Halloween in the Traditional Manner—Re-
print from October, 1941 issue. This is a
background, not an activity, article, ex-
plaining the origin of Halloween and its
customs . . . . . . . . $.15

Halloween Shenanigans—September, 1947
issue.........$.35

How One City Handles Halloween—Septem-
ber, 1950 issue. The story of Halloween
in Newton, Massachusetts . . . $.35

 

 

Editor, Joseru PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ROSE J AY SCHWARTZ

Vol. XLIV Price 35 Cents No. 4

On the Cover

September is the month that inspires Mother
Nature to paint her trees, grass and foliage
with a technicolor brush. Eye-filling scenes,
such as this of Holy Cross National Forest
in Colorado, make it ideal for picnicking,
hiking, camping and viewing.

And September is the time, too, for try-
ing out new programs and ideas. The routine
of back-to-school, back-to-work has begun,
and people of every age are anxious now for
fall plans which will make their every leisure
moment count. Photo, courtesy U.S. Forest

Service.

Photo Credits ,

Page 180, top, page 182, Paul Parker, New
York; page 188, Everett E. Hanke, West
Newton, Massachusetts; page 194, of Clar-
ence E. Brewer, Allied News-Photo, New
York; page 199, Venturo, Chicago, Illinois;
page 203, American Airlines, New York;
page 205, Cleveland seen from Terminal
Tower, Miller-Ertler Studios, Cleveland,
Ohio; page 215, Cleveland Press, Ohio;
page 217, Cohen Bros., Jacksonville, Florida.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association of
America, a service organization supported by volun-
lary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscriptions 83.00
a year. Canadian agency. G. R. Welch Company, Ltd.,
1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Onlario; Canadian
subscription rate 83.85. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Oliice in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized
May 1, 1924.

Advertising Representative, H. Thayer Healon, 415
Lexinglon Avenue, New York.

Copyright, 1950, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated
Prinled in the U.S.A.

 

NEXT MONTH

RECREATION will feature music, square danc-
ing, model aviation, Hicker ball, mask-mak-
ing, bicycling and hosteling, and more last-
minute ideas for Halloween. From Denver
will come the story on its Mayor’s Christ-
mas Party, and Cleveland will have a report
on the results of a cooperative project of
public and private agencies. In addition,
there will he articles about working board
members, in-service training for park em-
ployees, college students as camp counsel-
lors and the Swiss twist to sports. You’ll

want to read the OCTOBER ISSUE!

SEPTEMBER 1950

 

   
 
 

I

/ ’/ /

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

SEPTEMBER 1950

Time to Consume (editorial), Charles K. Brightbill. . . .179

Public Recreation in Cleveland, Floyd A. Rowe . . . . . . . .183
Square Dancing for the Handicapped, Ed Durlacher. . . .190
We Are All Handicapped, N. H. Pepper . . . . . . . . . . . . . .193
Recreation—In the Industrial Plant,

Clarence E. Brewer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..l95
When a University and Community Cooperate,

Jean D. Grambs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
Square Dance with a Bull, Sam Brake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .198
Hobbies-“The Regeneration of China, Paul Olsen . . . . . .199
Recreation Leadership Training in High School,

William B. Pond and Gene L. Coulon . . . . . . . . . . . .200

Let’s Go 011 a Tour, Frederick M. Chapman . . . . . . . . . .202

The Faith That Is in Us, Grant D. Brandon . . . . . . . . . . .206

“A Treasury of Living” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .208

Thrilling Developments in State Hospitals . . . . . . . . . . ..210

A Town of Good Skates, Jeannette Owens Fogarty . . . . . .211

Better Fishing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .214

Telescopes for Juniors, Frank A. Myers . . . . . . . . . . . . . .215

People in Recreation—Florida Dwight, Tom King . . . . . .21?

Recreation in Labor Unions, C. E. Brewer . . . . . . . . . . . . .219

Costume Loan Service, Florence Birkhead . . . . . . . . . . . 222

State Teamwork for Recreation, Ruth E. Peeler . . . . . . . .226

Services of the National Recreation Association

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .178
Expansion of NRA Field Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .194
Midcentury National Recreation Congress
Some Last Minute Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .204.
On the Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .205
Special Days and Events
Greek Games at Barnard . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .180
How One City Handles Halloween, Ragna Hovgaard. . . .186
Christmas Begins in J uly, Hugh T. Henry . . . . . . . . . . 209
Party and Dance Themes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213
Regular Features
World at Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . 218
Recreation Suggestion Box. . . . . 224
Magazines and Pamphlets. . . 228
Books Received . . . . . . . . . 230
New Publications . . . . . . . . . 231

Recreation Training Institute:- lnside Back Cover

177

74W @065 .540de Km . . .

6‘

0 THE EXECUTIVE AND IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEES of
the two national conferences on Undergraduate Profes-
sional Preparation in Health Education, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation were recently consolidated into one
continuing committee. The chairman was authorized to
appoint four subcommittees to determine next steps in
implementing the two reports and in improving profes-
sional preparation in these three areas.

0 NRA RESEARCH activities include the September first
publication of a study of school-recreation relationships
in the use of public school indoor facilities for commu-
nity recreation. Facilities used, conditions of use, bases
of charges and the positive and. negative influences on
cooperation are factors considered. Title of study—“The
Use of School Buildings for Recreation.”

0 A SURvav is the result of the group process in Virginia
and is the basis for a study of recreation in that state.
Conducted by a committee of professional recreation peo-
ple who are members of the state association, it was a
voluntary undertaking. For information, write Coolie
Verner, Associate in Community Services, University of

Virginia.

0 COMMUNITY STUDIES recently completed by the NRA
planning staff, or now under way, are: Niles, Michigan;
Maplewood, New Jersey; Hazleton, Pennsylvania; and
a revision of the 1945 recreation plan for Toledo, Ohio.

0 A COMMITTEE ON UNDERGRADUATE CURRICULUM IN REC-
REATon was set up by the Ohio Recreation Association
early this year. In order that it might have the 'benefit of
current educational plans in recreation, an informal letter
was sent to thirteen colleges and universities known to be
providing courses. All but one replied, giving information
on courses required for a major. (A summary of the
Undergraduate Curricula in Thirty-five C alleges and Uni-
versities, based on a study made by the National Recre-
ation Association in 19-18, is still available from the NRA.
Price $1.00.)

0 T\\'ENTY-.\'1NE STATE RECREATION ASSOCIATIONS are now
in existence. The 'baby of the family was formed on April
twentieth, when the Dakotas organized as one society at
the Midwest Recreation Conference.

0 A YOUNG ADULT SURVEY has been conducted in St.
Louis, developing out of an expressed concern on the
part of the national YMCA for information regarding
the needs and interests of young people from eighteen to
twenty-nine. The project was the result of the coopera-
tion of the local YMCA and Social Planning Council, and
\vas headed by J. Edward Dodds, YMCA program secre-
tary, and Edward B. Olds, who is research director of the
planning council.

178

The J 01) Outlook

W. C. SUTHERLAND

The unsettled recreation personnel, placement front
which characterized the years immediately following the
war has quieted. The turnover, especially in the higher-
salaried positions, is much less, and the movement seems
to have settled down to a long, steady pull ahead.

The demand, although modest this past year, has been
more for yourig executives to serve as superintendents of
recreation in newly-established departments in small
cities. These positions require a variety of talents which
characterize the administrator, community organizer, pro—
gram supervisor and leader. Assistants in medium-sized
cities and staff workers in larger departments frequently
make ideal prospects for these positions. The movement:
of personnel from staff positionsoto independent execu-
tive responsibility in small cities, and from these assign-
ments to larger administrative positions, as the workers
mature and gain experience, is helping to establish recre-
ation as a career.

The number of small towns establishing summer pro-
grams appears to 'be increasing, and supervisors are needed
for the summer months. Many of these communities are
prospects for year-round appointments in later years,
providing they are able to secure good leaders. There is
evidence, too, to indicate that opportunities will increase
in the 'broad field of institutions, especially in hospitals.

The most steady demand through the years has been
for general activities people with a variety of skills who
can organize and carry on a balanced program. These are
the people who can operate in almost any type of recrea-
tion setting, whether it 'be institutional, private agency or
public recreation department.

The Recreation Personnel Service of the NRA is be—
coming increasingly active in filling important vacancies
as more staff workers with experience file their personnel
credentials with the association. Also, it has been help-
ful to have the candidates already registered keep their
records up-to-date. Professional recreation workers be-
long where they can make the largest contribution. Some-
times this means transferring to new communities.

There are no financial obligations connected with this
service of the association, and individuals who have had
training and experience are invited to file their personnel
records. Likewise, recreation departments and private or
public agencies in need of recreation workers are en-
couraged to get in touch with us.

Author directs ~thc NRA Recreation Personnel Service.

RECREATION

I .
Time to Consume

t

WESTERN CIVILIZATION has demonstrated its abil-
ity to produce material things. Rightfully, in-
calculable amounts of money, energy and thought
are expended on the theory and techniques of pro-
duction. Current production achievements in the
United States have surpassed goals undreamed of
prior to World War II. Starting with the indus-
trial revolution, the emphasis has been on produc-
tion until, today, we are super—experts in every
phase of it.

There can be no quarrel with the essentiality of
full production in a stabilized economy and as a
springboard to higher standards of living. But,
production’s counterpart is consumption, and when
the problems of consumption have been explored,
for the most part they have been limited to the
consumption of economic goods. Relatively little
attention has been given to consuming goods of
the spirit, the mind and the creative hands.

Spare time is consumption time, bringing with it
all of the refreshing freedom of choice available to
man when he is free to do what he most desires.
Too few realize that leisure time—that is, oppor-
tunity for pursuits which contribute to personality
growth—is the kind of time which makes life worth
living. This leisure is infinitely more than mere
idleness. It is a potential liability or asset to the
individual and society. If it is to be used profitably,
the desires of people for personality enlargement
and cultural- and spiritual advancement must be
stimulated and satisfied.

Man has striven hard and long to invent and
produce. He has come a long way toward estab-
lishing a high plane of living triumphant over the
struggle for pure existence. He commands light-

SEPTEMBER 1950

EDITORIAL

Charles K. Brightbill

ning-like transportation, instant communication
and millions of labor-saving devices. But he is still
unhappy. He gets endless products from the soil
and minerals from the earth and makes them work
for mankind. But he is still unsatisfied. He has
harnessed the energy of the sun and, within limita-
tions, can make the elements work for him. But
he still searches for peace of mind. On the mate-
rial route to success, he has reached heights which
nobody would have dared to believe even a decade
ago. We have more production than ever before;
but we are still the unhappiest people the world
has ever known. Man’s pursuit of happiness is not
a transient desire. It is an ever-fixed mark.

The natural signs of society’s failures are all
about us. The universal feeling of anxiety, the
daily increasing bed occupancies in our neuropsy-
chiatric hospitals, and the prevalence of intellec-
tual, creative and spiritual bankruptcy are conclu-
‘sive indications of our shortcomings.

It will only be as man lives zestfully and abun-
dantly, giving attention to the opportunities on the
non-material side of life, that he will begin to learn,
to grow, to express and create, and to live a satis-
fying life. He may even learn a thing or two about
how to live peacefully with his neighbor.

These goods of the intellect and the spirit, these
chances for profitable and satisfying use of leisure,
along with the challenge of religion, are the great-
est stronghold for mankind. They are, in fact, the
strongest bulwark in the struggle of western civil-
ization to preserve and extend itself.

-—

 

Author is president r f American Recreation Society.

179

 

Planning and preparation: emphasize to partlmpnnts
a striving for a harmony of beauty and perfection.

 

18H

GREEK GAMES

“1 N ONE LARGE SPECTACLE, drama and pageantry,

dancing and athletics, poetry and singing,
processional and chorus are combined, with just
enough play to bind the various activities together
and provide opportunity for the dramatic; just
enough of the competitive spirit to give the whole
life and enthusiasm; with everything done to the
end that the color and line and form and beauty
are so emphasized that the composite becomes an
iliSpiring, breath-taking student performance."

This quotation from Virginia C. Gildersleeve,
formerly dean of Barnard College, describes Greek
Games as they are held annually at Barnard. Fol-
lowing the classic tradition, the games have grown
and flourished with the years, providing an un—
surpassed opportunity for Barnard’s physical edu-
cation department to assist in directing all student
talents into one productive channel. Incipient
dancers, athletes, artists, poets and musicians par-
ticipate enthusiastically, combining their skills to
produce an effective whole.

Developed among undergraduates, the games
originated in 1903 when the SOphomore class chal-
lenged the Freshman class to an informal and pri-
vate contest. From this simple beginning the
games grew, and the addition of a dance contest in
1908 completed the format as it exists today.

Greek Games have naturally become closely as-
sociated with Barnard, but the program has been

T1917: material wax pnepared, for the matt part, by
Jacqueline Hyman, a Barnard Jtndent, under the sa-
perw'rt'on of tlae Department of Public Relatiom.

RECREATION

Well-known throughout the student world,

this outstanding college event

might well act as a pattern for other colleges,

recreation groups or even camps.

“AT BARNARD

successfully adopted by and adapted for other col-
leges and schools—it has even been carried out, in
a shortened version, by summer camps.

As an example, the director of physical educa-
tion of the Oxford School, Hartford, Connecticut,
initiated Greek Games “to get away from held
days.” There, the games were held out-of-doors,
and the competition was between two school teams,
because individual classes were too small. At the
University of Cincinnati, where the games were
held for over twenty years, the contest included
archery and “living sculpture.” Every adaptation,
however, has kept the spirit of classic competition.
Some recreational groups have seen fit to incorpo-
rate only one or two parts of the games, because of
the limited personnel and facilities available.

A description of the games themselves, which
were presented for the forty—seventh time at Bar-
nard in May, 1949, must necessarily precede any
attempt to outline their organization. Dedicated
each year to a specilic Greek god or goddess, whose
characteristics are used as a theme, the games still
take the form of a competition between the Fresh-
men and Sophomores. Points are awarded to each
class, after the completion of each event, on the
basis of execution, originality, and effect.

The setting for the games is a modern audi-
torium with a small, doric—columned stage rising
in the center. The walls are disguised with gray
curtains, over which heavy laurel ropes are draped.

A colorful entrance procession begins the cere-
monies. Members of both participating classes,
dressed in bright costumes, file in review before

SEPTEMBER 1950

two white-clad priestesses representing the two
classes. Four points are credited to the class which
contributes the largest number of pe0ple to the
procession. Next, the Sophomore priestess recites
an invocation to the chosen deity in Greek, while
the Freshman priestess pours a libation and lights
the altar fire. Then comes a dramatic moment
when a Sophomore steps forward, challenging, in
Greek, all Freshmen to try their skills; a Freshman
herald accepts, and amid cries of “Nike!” (vic-
tory), the games begin.

A dance is first performed by a small group of
the most able dancers in each class. The dance is
based on one event in the reigning god’s life, and
music and choreography are original. Original
lyrics are read next; these are also based on the
god’s life. This completes the first section of the
games, and points are awarded as follows: ten
points for choreography, nine for execution; four
points for first place entrance music, two for sec-
ond, one for third; four points for hrst place lyric
reading, two for second, one for third, and one for
the lyric reader.

The second part of the games is devoted to ath-
letics, and includes discus-throwing, hoop-rolling,
hurdling and torch racing. This section also in-
cludes chariot racing—one of the most exciting
and spectacular events in the games. The “horses”
for each chariot are four girls, trained to execute
dance steps with grace and exacting precision. A
total of twenty-seven points is distributed through-
out these events.

As each event is judged, the victor is crowned

181

 

The chariot race is one of the most spectacular and
exciting events. Chariots are designed by students.

with a laurel wreath by the Sophomore priestess.
As a finale, the contestants join in a song honor-
ing the deity. The victors and the vanquished
unite, at last, in one final burst of enthusiasm;
rivalry is forgotten, and only the joy of achieve-
ment remains.

The organization of Greek Games begins, of
course, months in advance. Both the Freshmen and
Sophomores elect a Greek Games chairman in
November, and the chairmen, in turn, appoint a
committee of qualified classmates to help them.
Members of each of these committees form one
Central Committee for Greek Games, and each class
has chairmen of properties, costumes, dancing, ath-
letics, lyrics, music, and “entrance,” as well as a
business manager and publicity chairman.

From Nevember untilpFebruary Freshmen are
familiarized with the procedure, and plans are
drawn up. Cards are distributed throughout the
Freshman class on which each girl is asked to in—
dicate her talents, enabling the various committee
chairmen to draw up lists of possible participants.

In addition to the student groups, two members
of the physical education department assist in all
arrangements for the games. At Barnard, Profes-
sor Marion Streng, general faculty supervisor for
the games, and Miss Lillian Finan, instructor in
athletics, have worked with the games for several

years. In addition, upperclassmen who have been
prominent in the games are invited to help the
Freshmen. "

The deity is selected, judges invited, and the
dance story selected by early in December. Dur-
ing Christmas vacation, music is written or adapt-
ed. Entrance stories, color schemes, costume de-
signs and chariot designs are prepared before the
midyear vacation in February, and try-out meet-
ings and rehearsals are also scheduled then to avoid
last—minute confusion. H

Early in February, a member of the English de-
partment lectures on lyric-writing, and this lecture
opens a lyric contest. (Later, prize—winning lyrics
are selected to be read at the games.) Both en-
trance and dance music must be approved by mem-
bers of the music department. In March, try—outs
for the speaking parts are held, and the priestess
and challenger begin training with the speech de-
partment and the Greek department to perfect their
roles. All of the members of the opening proces-
sional must now attend rehearsals, and dancers
must begin to practice their parts. The most
skilled athletes are chosen, and they begin to train
for their special events. Dance stories must be ap-
proved by English department advisors, costumes
finished, music orchestrated, lyrics approved, and
properties made ready.

In all of these preparations, the cooperation of
the faculty, and particularly of members of the
physical education department, is manifest. The
training of dancers and athletes for the games is
included in the regular physical education schedule;
many extra hours of practice, however, are always
involved. Faculty assistance in other departments
is entirely extracurricular.

As Professor Agnes Wayman, head of the Bar-
nard physical education department for many
years, once wrote, “Just as music and poetry
played a prominent part in the education of Greek
youth to the end that there might beharmony of
body and mind and soul, so the games and all that
they demand in the way of thought and preparation
tend to emphasize in the lives of the students par-
ticipating a striving for beauty and perfection for

3”

itself alone. Here is an ideal ‘way of education.

 

“WE WHO ARE CONCERNED with education realize that athletics comprise an im-
portant part of education itself. A well-conceived plan of athletics in a college or
university becomes part of the educational procedure. It is our responsibility to
train men intellectually and morally and socially, but it is no less our responsibility
to train them physically as well, and in terms of physical courage.”

——Dr. Robert C. C lothier, president of Rutgers University.

182

' RECREATION

,2

Floyd A. Rowe

 

A traveling zoo, with trained lecturer, visits playgrounds,
and is so popular that all requests for it cannot be filled.

Public Recreation in CLEVELAND

I

PERHAPS ONE OF the most interesting features
of public recreation in Cleveland is the ad-
ministration of the overall recreation program.
The Joint Recreation Board, illustrating the con-
tractual relationship existing between the city of
Cleveland and the Cleveland Board of Education,
coordinates the programs of both agencies into one
complete program. The joint board came into be-
ing on September 16, 1946, when a contract was
signed between these agencies, specifying that “it
is desired, in the interest of economy of operation
and of securing the maximum use and enjoyments
of the facilities for public recreation in the city
of Cleveland, that the recreational activities of the
said parties be operated under a c00perative man-
agement agreement.”

During the past five years, the Joint Recreation
Board has managed to coordinate the operation of
all playgrounds in Cleveland as well as the various
other recreational facilities of the city and the
school board. As in any other joint enterprise of a
similar nature, there have been difficulties and
some degree of friction arising from time to time.

Ant/cor bar been coordinator of recreation for
Joint Recreation Board of city of Cleveland and
Cleveland Board of Education .rince Aagart 1946.

SEPTEMBER 1950

Scene ofcthe 1950 Recreation Congress

However, petty grievances have always been side-
tracked for the more important function of con-
ducting an all-inclusive program to service the
entire city.

When first inaugurated, such a board was ex-
perimental and untried. These few years of trial
and error have proved Cleveland’s need for a
united effort on the part of all public agencies in
providing a program which will provide for the
leisure-time needs of all of the people all of the
time. The program offered under the board is a
forward-looking one, attempting to serve the rec-
reation needs of as many citizens as is humanly
possible.

The summer needs of the children are taken care
of by 176 supervised playgrounds. The playground
program consists of the usual activities—games of
low organization, sand play, music, crafts, dra—
matics, dancing and so on. Youngsters are offered
an opportunity to purchase milk and graham crack-
ers during the midafternoon, the program being
subsidized by the Parent-Teacher Associations and
the Cleveland Plain Dealer. Milk is furnished to
all below its actual cost, and to children coming
from families known to relief agencies, it is abso~
lutely free.

There are weekly “specials” and contests lead-

183

ing to district and city championships in kite Hy-
ing, playground baseball for junior boys and girls,
and the like. The following three specials are
worthy of mention:

I. The Showagon, which moves from location

to location, giving recitals by boys and girls from .

the various playgrounds, is a sort of vaudeville—on—
wheels. Auditions for talent are held weekly. The
children who are selected from the mass of con-
testants are then rehearsed for a week under ex-
pert supervision. After each of the shows there is
a street dance, led by one of Cleveland’s select
dance orchestras. These Showagon performances
attract neighborhood crowds of from three to five
and six thousand. Demands for the Showagon far
exceed the ability of the recreation department to
schedule its appearances. This program is spon-
sored by the Joint Recreation Board and the
Cleveland Press.

2. The Traveling Zoo is a large motor—drawn
van containing a number of animals, monkeys, ar-
madillos, and so forth, together with local country
animals such as raccoons, Opossums, crows, rab—
bits, foxes. A trained lecturer accompanies the
zoo and tells the young audience about the animals,
in language they understand. As with the Sho-
wagon, the Traveling Zoo cannot satisfy the needs
and demands for it. Schedules for its appearance
are publicized through the public press and also by
special announcements on the playgrounds at which
it is to appear.

3. The parade is without doubt the high spot in
the summer activities of four or five thousand chil-
dren. They march down Euclid Avenue to music
furnished by their own band, harmonica groups
and rhythm bands. Clowns, characters, floats and
other attractions, thought up and developed by the
children themselves, constitute the parade. Last
year, one playground deve10ped a dragon, emitting
fire and smoke from its nostrils, which squirmed
its loo-foot length down the avenue, much to the
delight of the thousands of Spectators who lined
the sidewalks and peered from store and office
windows. The parade wound up on The Mall,
where a patriotic note was added by a presentation
of the flag by representatives of the armed forces,
and a mass singing of “The Star Spangled
Banner.”

The Cedar Point trip for winners of the penta-
thlon is another gala day—at one of Lake Erie’s
most beautiful beaches, sixty miles west of the city.
Children taking part are those who have been most
helpful to the playground workers in the activities
of the safety council. This outing furnishes a
train ride, a boat ride and a day of activities free

184

to all pentathlon winners. The effect of the trip is
reflected in the desire of the boys and girls, city—
wide, to qualify for it by their work on the play-
grounds. This trip is sponsored by various civic-
minded individuals, industrial concerns and the
Cleveland Plain Dealer. The PTA’s, through the
milk fund, give the children a satisfying dairy
lunch.

Recreation for older groups is not overlooked,
but, during the summer months, is entirely sec-
ondary to the provision of such service for the
children. Centers are open for the older groups
where trained instructors in arts and crafts, paint-
ing, ceramics, and other creative activities hold
classes for the interested attendance. Music and
dramatic groups are kept alive with weekly re-
hearsals during the hot weather. Some work is
done with dance groups, but the size and number
of the groups are quite limited and consist mostly
of folk and acrobatic dancing.

Golden-agers are quite active in a well-estab-
lished choral group. A British group does mostly
Scottish dances, reporting that it is much easier to
get together in the summer than at other times
because children are kept busy on the playgrounds.
The Mother’s Singing and Demonstration Dance
Club is another activity group.

The fall and winter program is carried on in
over thirty locations and consists of activities
classified under three general headings: physical,
social and cultural. These three categories are,

in turn, broken down into the following unit
activities: l

Physical

Archery Gym Class Stunts
Basketball (women’s) Swimming
Boxing Horseshoes Tennis
Fencing Indoor Softball Tumbling
Game Room Limbering Volleyball
Golf Ping—pong Wrestling
Gym Class Roller Skating

(men’s) Shuffle'board

Social

Bridge Dancing (Folk) Dancing (Tap)
Card Playing Dancing Nationality
Checkers (Modern) Public Forum
Chess Dancing & Discussion
Dancing ('Old Time) Public Speaking

(Ballroom)
' Cultural
Accordion First Aid Minstrel
Acting Production Flower Making Orchestra
Archery Garden Club Paper Craft
Art & Drawing Gift Club Personal Regimen
Aviation Glee Club Photography
Band Guitar Club Piano-Violin
Beauty Culture Hair Styling Play Production
Choral Class Harmonica Quilting
Clay Modeling Instrumental Radio Telegraphy

& Sketching Journalism Reading Room
Cooking Classes Knitting & Rifle Club
Diesel Engine Sewing Social Hygiene
D‘ressmaking Make—up Stage Craft
Drum & Bugle Marionettes Voice Operetta
Fathers Club Metal Craft Woodcraft

RECREATION

The community center in the \Villmr
Wright Junior High School has had
both a long and'successful operation.

All of these activities are not offered in all of
the recreation centers, but can be found in some of
them. This unit list is not necessarily complete for
any given year, but represents the offerings of the
1949-50 season.

Directors of the various centers are constantly
on the alert to find individuals and groups having
additional interests. Such interests, when dis-
covered, are promoted vigorously. Canasta is a
case in point. It takes its place under the general
heading of “card playing,” along with pinochle
and other popular card games. Only in bridge
and canasta, however, are organized instructions

offered.

The centers also furnish meeting space for
groups organized around a common interest, when-
ever space can be made available, even though the
groups are not organized by recreation personnel.
In many instances, such groups affiliating with the
centers give up their autonomy and become active
units in the center program.

An activity which has attracted a great deal of
local comment is the prOgram of Boystowns. There
are four of these towns, located in precinct police
stations which became obsolete when police were
put on rubber with two-way radios. These four
towns are located in areas where there are large
groups .of boys, ages ten to sixteen, who are not
served by some other agency. Their programs
consist largely of activities which can be carried
on in rather restricted space. Handcraft is stressed
under the leadership of trained vocational art in-
structors. Music, both vocal and instrumental, club
activities, libraries planned to be attractive to
boys—stocked with Popular Mechanics and other
'current publications of an instructive and popular

SEPTEMBER 1950

 

.‘3

.1“ . . .
nature—'-are much in demand. For their athletic

program, they are dependent upon the facilities of
the Joint Recreation Board. However, teams in
basketball, softball, boxing, and so on are de-
veloped in each town.

The programs of the Boystowns, however, pri-
marily are centered around the functions of elect-
ing mayors and councilmen, and around other
forms of city governmental activities. Frequent
visits of Boystowns’ elected governing personnel
to city council meetings are encouraged.

The Kiwanis Clubs of Cleveland, the Boystown
Foundation and other civic organizations have
taken, and are continuing to take, an active and
sustaining interest in their further development.

Another special center is the Cudell Arts and
Crafts Center. Here can be found trained leader—
ship in ceramics, painting and weaving, as well as
other forms of cultural activities.

An organizational deve10pment which is being
watched with considerable interest is that of co—
operative enterprises with Red Feather agencies.
For example, several centers are now operating in
school buildings, with personnel employed by as
many as three agencies. This personnel works
toward the accomplishment of commonly agreed
objectives. Friction has been reduced to a mini-
mum by frequent informal conferences between the
executive‘s of each group. The operation of these
centers is proceeding satisfactorily, and it is hoped
that the coordination with other non-tax-supported
agencies and tax-supported Joint Recreation Board
programs will increase in scope to the end that the
Cleveland recreation dollar will furnish more and
better recreation to all ages and sexes all the
year round.

185

“An investment that promises‘to return dividends in the future
welfare and conduct of the city.”

How one city handles

 

Mayor listens intently as Raggedy Ann and Andy un-
fold a spooky experience occurring at their party.

  
 

. In Newton, Massachusetts, a city
1 of 82,000 good neighbors some
' eight miles west of Boston, we an-
nually stage a rousing Halloween
celebration for more than 10,000
, public, private and parochial school
children of all ages.

It is, as a visitor has said, “an amazing city-wide
event,” embracing every grade from kindergarten
through senior high school. Even though faced
with a rigorous schedule of 240 separate parties,
held in forty key locations throughout our corpo-
rate area of eighteen square miles, Newton’s en—
thusiastic volunteer Halloween workers take the
whole project in their stride.

Packed into a few short hours, after six weeks
of intensive preparation, the carefully—planned pro—
grams—specifically tailored for each age—level

Mrs. Ragna Hovgaard, supervisor of recreation in
Newton, has been an outstanding factor in the rec-
reation department there for more than thirty years.

186

 

It is alWays time for eats. Each party offers re-
freshments supplied by the recreation department.

group—redect the efhcient organizational setup
Newton has developed through nine years of ex—
perience. The response of our 10,000 lively, un—
predictable youngsters has been something out of
this world. Although energetic, exuberant boys
and girls are potential dynamite when in a rollick—
ing mood, the supervision of these many controlled
parties, even if unobtrusive, is so effective that no
untoward incident or serious emergency has ever
marred them.

From the very beginning, our Halloween cele-
brations have been sponsored by the recreation de-
partment, whose present commissioner is C. Evan
Johnson—La director whose inspiring leadership
has been a notable factor in our success. The rec-‘
reation department would, however, be severely
handicapped without the strong moral support and
active cooperation of the city government, the Pro-
testant, Catholic and Jewish clergy, various civic
organizations and innumerable citizens. Mayor
Theodore R. Lockwood—one of those few ardent
“visionaries” who, less than a decade ago, pio-

RECREATION

Ragna I-Iovgaard

IALLOWEEN

neered our parties-—is today, as much as ever,
heart and soul behind our celebrations. He starts
the Halloween ball rolling with a friendly, neigh-
borly letter to every parent in the community.
Other city oHicials, the school department, headed
by superintendent Harold B. Gores, the police,
lire and health departments, the Chamber of Com-
merce, Parent-Teachers Association, and the New-
ton Chapter of the American Red Cross-—these,
and more, provide the solid foundation on which
our entire Halloween structure is erected.

The front-line forces, in immediate charge of
the planning and directing of the 240 parties, stem
from a supporting committee led this year by
Parker F. Pond, president of Newton Center Im-
provement Association, as’ lay chairman. It in-
cludes the mayor, the superintendent of schools,
the chiefs of the police and fire departments, the
secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, members
of the clergy, representatives of many civic organ-
izations, and other prominent citizens—altogether
numbering approximately forty men and women.

Twelve village coordinators serve as liaison mem-
bers of the supporting committee. Each is solely
responsible for the activities in one of the twelve
distinct but contiguous villages into which Newton
happens to be geographically divided. As their
title implies, they coordinate all elements required
for the successful direction 'and program of the
parties within their respective villages—personnel,
equipment and all other necessary facilities.

Each coordinator appoints a building chairman
for every key location in his village. The “key”
location may be a school, church, club, the YMCA
or some other suitable gathering place. It may
house one party, or more—in fact, up to fourteen,
as in the case of some elementary school buildings.

Every building chairman, in turn, appoints a
room chairman for each party under his or her
jurisdiction; and these room chairmen then organ-

SEPTEMBER 1950

   

Ranny Weeks,
orchestra leader, as
quiz-master at junior party.

ize the committees, composed of parents, who sup-
ply the most vital ingredients of our whole Hallo-
ween recipe: the planning of appropriate programs
and the actual direction of the parties themselves.
There are well over two hundred of these commit-
tees; and the total personnel, including first-aiders
directed by the Red Cross, exceeds fourteen hun-
dred men and women, all volunteer workers.

As permanent chairman of the program commit-
tee, my own work involves general supervision of
the programs for all parties in the city. I keep in
close touch with the committees by mailed memo-
randa, by telephone and by attending their meet-
ings when asked to do so. Nevertheless, the in-
dividual committees are given the widest latitude
in arranging their events. They are urged only to
conform to certain broad principles and to confme
themselves within a framework of activities which
our experience has proved foolproof. One specific
requirement, however, is that they develop their
programs with the age level of each particular
group of children meticulously in mind. This is of
paramount importance; and the great success of
our parties can be largely attributed to the care
with which the committees observe it. The time—
periods for each party are also suited to age levels:
they start in midafternoon for the kindergartners,
with evening parties for the older boys and girls
running until nine, ten and eleven o’clock.

Inasmuch as our parties are based on the par-
ticipation of the children rather than on passive en-
tertainment, the concept of good recreation serves
as a guide in framing every age—level program. In
other words, we stress balanced programs: phys-

'ical activity, social recreation, games, social and

simple square dancing; music, for community sing-
ing and dancing; drama, which includes movies,
quiz sessions, amateur stunts, fortune tellers, magi-
cians, storytelling, costume parades with prizes;
Chambers of Horror, Houses of Fun—the list is

187

limited only by the imagination and ingenuity of
the Committees. Chambers of Horror provide a
terrific thrill for the upper grammar grades, and
here the fathers shine, striving earnestly and joy-
fully to devise harmless but spine-chilling “hor-
rors." \\'hat they accomplish is something to be-
hold! In all this planning, however, there is only
one acceptable possibility for the more sedate sen-
ior high students: a dance at Newton’s Totem Pole
Ballroom, in Norumbega Park, which is annually
attended by nearly two thousand boys and girls.

It is axiomatic in young minds, of course, that
a party is not a party without something to eat.
The recreation department, accordingly, furnishes
refreshments for all parties below the senior high
grades. These are simple: ice cream and cookies
for elementary school children; the same, plus
cider, for the junior high parties. At the Totem
Pole Ballroom, refreshments are available to the
high school dancers at moderate cost.

The recreation department’s “official” menu adds
up to many thousands of portions—enough, and to
spare, for all children and the fourteen hundred
committee members. Doting parents, aunts, and
other well—wishers personally donate additional
thousands of cookies, candies, apples and similar
festive foods to help fill any possible chinks in
young stomachs.

Simple as the department’s refreshments are,
the task of distribution is considerable. The re-
quired quantity is figured out in advance and a
blanket order is given to a caterer, who delivers it
to a distributing center on Halloween morning.
There, thirty to forty volunteer women workers re-
package the items into the correct number of serv-
ings for each party—the 240 or more cartons then
being sent by truck to the forty key locations. To
avoid any error—a possibility that gives us the
horrors—we work from carefully prepared record
sheets, and then check, recheck and cross-check
until we are satisfied that nothing is amiss.

As with any project involving expenditures, the
financing of our early Halloween celebrations was
a major problem. For the past five years, how-
ever, it has been relatively simple. Our expense
money comes from three sources: a special Hallo-
ween fund in the budget of the recreation depart—
nient; from letters soliciting donations which are
mailed to five thousand local merchants, manu-
facturers and private citizens by the Chamber of
Commerce, the entire expense being generously
borne by the chamber; and, lastly, from “token”
fees, paid by the children themselves, for the Hallo-
ween tickets which are sold in every school. Ele-
mentary pupils pay nine cents; junior high boys

188

and girls, twenty cents; and, through the courtesy
of the Totem Pole management, senior high stu—
dents are charged only forty cents. It is impos-
sible, here, to go into detail regarding the spending
of the money we receive from these sources. All
in all, working with a budget that is surprisingly
modest for the extent of our celebration, we dili-
gently keep our expenses as low as possible—and,
fortunately, manage to stay on the right side of
the ledger.

A factor not to be overlooked is properly han-
dled newspaper publicity. In the early days, it was
a hit-or-miss procedure resulting in confusion and

 

Slippery slides, rolling barrels and moving board-
walks thrill school boys in their House of Horrors.

poor publicity. Today, we clear all such material
through our general publicity chairman. At least
once a week he receives, from building chairmen,
filled-out mimeographed forms so itemized as to
give him all the information he needs for a com-
prehensive story of the progress being made by all
committees. These stories begin to appear im-
mediately following the very first meetings. We
have also had additional favorable publicity through
editorials in the Boston Globe and Christian Sci-
ence Jlfom'tor; and Boston radio stations have
courteously given us time on the air.

Publicity has several advantages. Our own local
newspaper, particularly, keeps the coming Hallo-
ween parties constantly before our citizens, and
thus makes more fertile the ground which the
Chamber of Commerce plows with its letters ask-
ing for contributions; it stimulates the early pur-
chase of tickets by the children; and it has, too,
its effect within the Halloween organization. Clip-

RECREATION

pings of each week’s newspaper stories are mailed
to all building chairmen to show them the pro-
gressive development of the whole Halloween pic-
ture, and to serve as a stimulus for the few whose

plans may not be maturing as rapidly as they
should.

Another phase of publicity is poster work done
by students in the junior and senior high school
art courses. Placed in schools, they are daily re-
minders to children of the coming event. Many

are extremely clever, and all are a tribute to the'

teaching staff of our public school art department.

Halloween has long been viewed by the younger
generation as an occasion for exercising an inalien-
able right to indulge in pranks. Although our
primary objective in setting up our all—inclusive
celebration was not the elimination of such pranks,
it is good to be able to report that by keeping
youngsters off the streets and permitting them to
expend their energies otherwise, we have been the
means of reducing property damage so materially
that today it approaches the vanishing point.

The basic purposes and objectives of Newton’s
celebration may briefly be expressed in this way: to
form a correct concept in children’s minds regarding
Halloween, and to remedy previously held errone-
ous ideas about it; to afford children intelligent,
thoroughly pleasant, but safe enjoyment; to spend
only a limited amount of money, but enough to
avoid damage usually amounting to more than the
expenditure; to divert children’s minds from mis-
chief to healthy pastimes; to teach them respect for
other people’s property; and, above all, to instill
in young minds the fundamentals of good citizen-
ship. Beyond question, these purposes and objec-
tives ar'e being achieved.

It was nine years ago that we made our first
feeble attempt to launch controlled parties; and
we found the going hard. Indifference, downright
opposition, lack of funds——these, and more, balked
our efforts. Within a few years, however, we were
rewarded by a rising tide of interest and coopera-
tion, culminating in the present all-out, enthusi-
astic backing from every quarter of the city, every
stratum of society and the clergy of every faith.

Our greatest impetus came, undoubtedly, when
Dr. Homer L. Anderson, our former superintend-
ent of schools, accorded us the moral and active
support of his entire department. As he said in his
statement of the policies of the Newton public
schools regarding the Halloween parties: “We con-
cur with the purposes and objectives of the recre-
ation department in sponsoring and directing the
annual Halloween parties . . . We stand ready to

SEPTEMBER 1950

cooperate on a voluntary basis to make the parties
a success and secure the results desired. Since this
is an ont-of—school educational experience, it not-

urally follow: that it be supported wholeheartedly
by the staff of the public schools.”

Coincident with this statement, all facilities of
the school buildings were made available to us:
visual equipment, pianos, radios, gym materials
and suitable rooms. Principals freely assisted com-
mittees in the selection of parent leadership by
submitting lists of interested parents, and by ar-
ranging for the sale of tickets to pupils through
their teachers. They encouraged teachers to dis-
cuss with pupils the purposes of the parties and the
real meaning of Halloween; to use the occasion
to teach good citizenship habits, with special em-
phasis on respect for other people’s property; and
to direct attention to the celebration as an illustra-
tion of how a community project can be made suc-
cessful through the cooperation of many people
giving of their time and energies unselfishly.

Our present superintendent of schools, Harold
B. Gores, is heartily continuing Dr. Anderson’s
original policies. He is of incalculable help to us,
not only because of his keen personal interest, but
by granting us unreservedly the full weight of his
department. So convinced is he of the long-ranged
benefits of our celebrations, he is now asking us to
include parties for tiny tots. His thought is to have

these tiny folks’ first experience with school a
pleasant one.

All in all, our Halloween project is an enriching
experience for everyone concerned. The happy
faces of the children as they take part amply make
amends for all the hard work and time put into
their Big Night. But even more gratifying is the
assurance that our parties are accomplishing the
purposes for which they were designed. For nine
years—almost a full school generation—our chil-
dren have come under the influence of those con-
trolled, planned parties. Their conception of Hal-
loween certainly is far different from that of the
youngsters of a previous era. That is worthwhile,
indeed! And there is no gainsaying the fact that
of inestimable value in the development of juvenile
character is the first-hand evidence that their par-
ents, neighbors and teachers, by working together
in one common cause, can do a big job well.

This investment should return even greater divi-
dends in the future when the welfare and the con-
duct of the city come into these very children’s
hands. The things they are learning now should
help make their Newton of tomorrow an even bet-

ter community than it is today.

189

 

66 ONOR YOUR PARTNER!” Wide, colorful skirts
bobbing, the girls of the Marie Blodie Club
curtseyed deeply, then went into the opening figure
of their square dance before an enthusiastic audi-
ence gathered in Los Battalion Hall of Brooklyn’s
Rego Park. W hile the band played modern and
folk tunes, the young women progressed from ele—
mental steps and figures into difficult dances that
are only seen as specialty numbers—their time, co-
ordination and movement fiawless. When the final
chord coincided with the final curtsey, the breath-
less girls were greeted by spectators who rushed
onto the fioor with congratulations, many of them
anxious to join the club and participate in their
dances. It was only then that they learned what
many of the audience had never suspected: all
members of the Marie Blodie Club are blind! Yet
they are regular square dancers, annually put on a
dance festival-wand rarely does the audience see a
misstep.
Square dancing, now in the throes of rebirth
across the country, has a wide range of appeal. Its
position of increasing importance as a diversion

Mr. Durlacher, well-known to the recreation field and
several times in charge of dancing at National Recrea-
tion Congresses, needs no introduction. His books,
"Honor Your Partner,” complete with music and in-
structions, and "Play Party Book,” for the younger set,
are now in their second printing. His four albums of
recordings, ranging from beginner’s to advanced, also
entitled "Honor Your Partner,” can he used to teach
leaders and furnish the music for actual dancing.
For further information, write Mr. Durlacher, at his
home, Freeport, Long Island, New York.

190

f0

ior handicapped persons has spread to include
groups of all ages.

PhiIOSOphy underlying the reason for a renewed
interest in square dancing is soundly based on the
deep—seated need of all persons, of all ages, for
socialization, which such a diversion can meet, and
still combat the trend toward activities outside the
family circle. It revives interest in America’s own
folklore and music. An obvious benefit is the rec-
reation and healthful exercise afforded to all.

The general public, excluding the inner circle of
square dance devotees, is not aware that dances are
scheduled for nearly every evening in the parks,
clubs or recreation centers of most cities, and that
square dances are regular week-end entertainment
in many rural areas.

The public is still less aware that instructors
have successfully taught square dancing to widely
diversified groups of handicapped persons, with
results gratifying to all concerned. Although
methods and procedures used are too new to have
become standardized as yet, certain instructions
and the resultant success of the dancers indicate
that these methods may be profitably used by other
recreation directors who deal with the handicapped.

We have worked always with a basic premise,
“What can square dancing do for the pe0ple?”
while teaching square dancers and instructors
throughout the country. Some of our pupils have
been amputees confined to wheel chairs, psy—
choneurotic and other mental cases, the cerebral
palsied, the deaf and dumb as well as the blind.
The Marie Blodie Club girls are some of our prize
pupils. '

Handicapped persons prove to be interested and
willing pupils-“rarely does one meet a group for
which some teaching technique cannot be adapted.
I first became interested in this specialized form
of square dancing when, during the war, I had
the opportunity to teach amputees in a veterans'
hospital. Straight line figures, we found, can be
quickly mastered by the boys wearing artificial
legs; while no “step” existing was beyond the scope
of amputees confined to wheel chairs. They, of

 

‘ Reprinted from The Crippled Child, Chicago, Illinois.

RECREATION

Ed Durlaeher

he Handicapped

course, easily out-maneuvered their nurse-partners,
who, for uniformity’s sake, also “danced” in wheel
chairs. Nevertheless, at the end of the first lesson,
the group could run through their do-si—do’s and
“promenade all around the hall” with a good
amount of precision and, most important of all,
have a wonderful time doing it.

While 100 square feet is considered the required
space for the average group of four couples, wheel
chair dancers need about 400 square feet, or an
area about twenty by twenty feet. Mechanical
complications, confronted while making turns and
so forth, are compensated for by playing the music
at seventy-five per cent of normal tempo.

Most groups of handicapped dancers
can begin with a simple circle dance,
their joined hands creating a feeling
of security and safety. The men have
one basic rule to remember: keep your
partners on your right. Invariably,
however, when a collision on “circle to
the right” results from a confused
sense of direction, we carefully ex-
plain that the right hand is “the one
with the thumb on the left hand side,”
sparing the dancers embarrassment.
Every group responds to expressions
of genuine encouragement and, when
treated with kindness and mutual re-
spect, is receptive to the teaching and
has fun while learning.

Square dancing can bring much to
the lives of the cerebral palsied. Tem-
p0 of the music is reduced to fifty per
cent of normal speed, and the caller
carefully bases progress on the aver-
age person in the group. Square danc—
ing, no matter what the age of the
dancer, is never heralded as a class or
lesson, but simply as a game. Every—
one is taught at the beginning that its
success depends on cooperation, with
partners helping each other if neces-
sary. I’ve added a new word, “psyrol-

H

ogy, to my vocabulary, formed of

SEPTEMBER 1950

I‘szcholog). psyt‘hiatry and \(rtlhlilg) “l‘tlt‘r-'dl' ‘
ing of which is absolutely manual) in mil ".,:
with groups such as these.

Group activity can print: in lit; Ill grout item-m
to the introverted personality which sun-l) dc:
scribed Teddy the first time we saw tum Small
and shy. he. hung at the edge of the crowd at t'tt
summer camp’s square dances and refused to be
drawn into the activities. \\ hen, at last, he “as no
longer able to resist the. persistent coaxing and
stepped out onto the floor, it u as obvious that one
of Teddy’s feet was badly crippled. Dancing meant
many falls and moments of embarrassment at first,
but with dogged determination he kept trying. lie

Handicapped children at Camp Paivika, in California, quickly find
that square dancing helps everyone get acquainted, adds to fun.

 

191.

was a regular dancer from that summer on and, at
last report, his ego had been so bolstered that he
had become one of the popular members of the
teen-age set. His group dancing can perhaps be
credited with starting him on the path towards
better social adjustment.

Problems arose in our initial efforts to teach the
deaf and dumb to square dance. The problem of
communication was solved in short order by the
use of signs for “boy,” “girl,” “under,” “over,”
“around,” and so on. A recreation worker was
recruited to thump a stick on the fioor, creating
vibrations by which the dancers were able to de-
termine the tempo. Students at the Nebraska
School for the Deaf and Dumb in Omaha, eager to
learn, mastered basic steps as rapidly as normal
persons. A piano or recordings furnished the
music, and the caller attracted their attention to
signals by using a light which he switched on and
off.

Blind persons can be excellent square dancers,
but it must be emphasized that the “new” or re—
cently-blinded persons should be taught separately
from the “old” blind, who have had many years to
adjust to their handicap. If the two groups are
mixed, the new blind will feel at just as great
a disadvantage as would the old blind if they were
forced to dance with sighted persons.

The new blind are started off easily with circle
dances, holding hands so that they never need have
the insecurity of losing contact. They progress to
“squares” of four persons each, and the secret of
their obvious ability to master square dancing lies
in the fact that every step is numbered—making it
mathematically impossible for them to follow direc-
tions and not return to their correct position. Just
as important as correct technique, the teacher must
love the people and the work and, above all, never
inject sympathy into his remarks. By keeping an
eye on the average, so that the rate of learning
will not be discouraging, and by showing how easy
the dancing can be by starting off with simple
figures, the teacher can create an appetite for more,
and for all the enthusiasm he could ask.

The old blind, we found, are not nearly as sensi-
tive as those who have been recently blinded, but
require fifty per cent more time to teach than nor-
mal persons, and progress best at a tempo about
sixty-five per cent of normal. With their ability
to read the tone of their teacher’s voice, they can be
taught the most intricate figures, and will take the
inevitable bumps and mixups in stride if they are
taught as any normal group. Under no circum—
stances, however, are the blind to be taught in a
mixed group with sighted persons.

192

Psychological patients can learn to square dance
if the speed of the music is cut to seventy-five per
cent of tempo, and they are treated as normal. The
teacher must convey, by the tone of authority in his
voice, exactly what he means and wants. Because
it is necessary to repeat instructions in order to
gain complete absorption, this group often takes
eighty per cent longer to teach. The perfect results,
once the steps are mastered, are astounding. In
one hospital, 150 patients went through seven
dances and were asked to review three of them.
In all of these freshly-learned figures, only three
mistakes were made, and they were just natural
mistakes—and all made by nurses, who were act-
ing as partners!

Whether square dancers be on ice, roller skates,
or horseback, handicapped or not handicapped, old
or young, theirs is a recreation that gives back far
more than it demands, providing fun and exercise
for all who will participate. Because it is a group
activity, it stimulates cooperation, and many of us
have come to realize that we help ourselves best
when we are helping others. Understanding the
other fellow’s problem will help the individual to
understand and solve his own—to the'tune of toe-
tickling music and the rapid square dance parlance .

that follows when the caller says: “Honor your
partner!”

 

The following publications should help you get
off to a fine dancing start. These, and many others,
may be ordered from the National Recreation As-
sociation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.

Barn Dance Returns, The . . . . . . . . . . . . ..$ .15
Complete plans for a rollicking and fun-
filled old-fashioned barn dance.

Dances and Their Management (MP 313) . .15
Suggestions for conducting community or
public dances or small group dances. In-
cludes dance games and stunts.

Fun for Threesomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
Musical mixers, folk and square dances for
groups with more men than women, or
vice-versa.

“Good Morning” by Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Ford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .75

Old—time dances‘with music, calls and figures.

Musical Mixers and Simple Square Dances .50
Mixers, group and couple dances and square
dances.

References on Square Dances (MP 327). .15
Some of the Dances and Mixers Used at

the 1949 National Recreation Congress
(MP 425) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ‘ .15

RECREATION

We Are All Handicapped

REN’T we all handicapped in
some way? Do you feel that

 

you are not?

Eminent sociologists and psychologists tell us
every day about pe0ple who have inferiority com-
plexes. These pe0ple are handicapped. Doctors
tell us about children and adults who have weak
hearts. They are handicapped. Teachers tell other
teachers about pupils who are mentally retarded.
They are handicapped.

Now let us look at the average person—you, the
reader. Can you do perfectly everything you try?
If you can’t, then you can consider yourself in
the handicapped field!

We need to understand better the physically
handicapped person. The only difference between
us is that his handicap is one that everyone can see.
Children and adults who have physical handicaps
need this understanding from other people. We

,must realize that the physically handicapped want
to belong, want to play, and have the same needs
and desires as the physically normal beings around
them. They don’t want to have special considera-
tion. They do not want to be left out—they can
play just as well as most of us, but they are not
included because they look as if they cannot play.

One summer, as director of Kiwanis Camp for
Crippled Children, in Plymouth, Indiana, I found
that these youngsters, from all walks of life, were
the same as normal children. Some of them were
daredevils and would do anything that might chal-
lenge a normal child. Some were timid and had to
be urged; some wouldn’t try anything. Through
conferences with parents and with the children
themselves, we found that such differences came
about, in large part, because of their experience
with understanding—or the lack of it—from par-

Author is professor of bealt/a, physical education
and recreation, Morebeatl State College, Kentucky.

SEPTEMBER 1950

N. H. Pepper

ents, teachers, other people and other children,
both normal and physically handicapped.

For example, one boy had been in an auto-
mobile wreck in which both legs were amputated
below the hips. This boy was adjusted to his
handicaps, went swimming, walked on his arti-
ficial legs. If he fell, he picked himself up. He
played baseball, hiked, did everything for himself.
This boy was encouraged to play and to do things
as if he had no physical handicap. The result was
that he got along very well until someone would
say to him, “You can’t do that because you have no
legs.” That is when he became handicapped—by a
handicap that is far more dangerous than any
physical one can be. Since play is a normal thing
for both children and adults, when you tell another
person he cannot play because of a physical handi-
cap, you are making that physical one grow into a
mental handicap as well. Most children with
physical handicaps would be normal in every sense
if other people would allow them to forget their
troubles.

The only thing that a leader has to remember
when working with handicapped children is that
they want to be considered as normal beings and
want to do the normal things that others do. Some-
times some things must be modified for them, but
they can still enjoy playing the same type of game.
Children who play ping—pong in wheel chairs play
just as well and get just as much fun out of it as
others who stand on their own feet. The same
applies to archery, volleyball, swimming, rowing,
picnics, campfire programs, baseball, and all the
other activities that go on in camps, schools or
on playgrounds.

So, the next time you see a physically handi-
capped person, remember that he is not “different,”
that we all are handicapped in some way. Let us
have a better understanding of our physically

handicapped people.

193

Expansion of NBA Field Services

Many proposals for the closer cooperation of the National Recreation Association with
recreation leaders throughout the country, as well as for ways of increasing the effective-
ness of association services, have been under serious consideration during recent months.
As a result, the first step toward such goals is an expansion of association district field
services as of July I, 1950. Because community provisions for recreation are increasingly
being supplemented by state facilities and services, the thirteen district representatives of
the association will now take on the responsibility of working with state agencies, in addi-
tion to their regular community services. This work, however, will be supplemented by a
central clearing service to maintain a national exchange of experiences. The special
knowledge and experience which Bill Hay and Harold Lathrop have accumulated during
the years of their exclusive service to state agencies will continue to be available for
special state projects.

Mr. Hay and Mr. Lathrop have been newly appointed as additional association district
representatives, the former to serve in the states of Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee in
the southern district; the latter in the states of Colorado, North Dakota, South Dakota

and \Vyoming in the north central district.

\Villiam M. Hay comes from the
Southland, studied at North Texas
Agricultural College and Iowa
State College. In 1936 he worked
for the state of Tennessee as rec-
reation assistant in the Division
of Forestry of the Department of
Agriculture. In 1939 he assumed
the duties of director of the Divi-
sion of State Parks; and, in 1942,
he became state recreation con-
sultant to serve towns and counties. He is a mem—
ber of the American Institute of Park Executives,
the National Conference on State Parks, and is
one of the originators of the Association of South—
eastern State Park Directors. He has represented
the NRA in state work for the last three years.

 

A

William Hay

Harold \V. Lathrop, who also has
been doing state work for the as-
sociation, grew up in Minneapolis.
He studied civil engineering at
Dunwoodie Institute and quickly
secured employment with the
_ Minneapolis Board of Park Com-
missioners. From 1927 to 1934,
he was engaged in the planning
Harold Lathrop of parks and playgrounds; and, in
1934, he was drafted by the gov-
ernor to serve as the first director of the Minne-
sota state parks and to write the legislation which
would set up a separate state agency. Through
succeeding years, his interests and concerns broad—
ened to include the recreation field. He was pres-
ident of the National Conference on State Parks
from 1942 to 1946 and is now a life director.

 

194

 

George Nesbitt will replace Clarence Brewer as
district representative in New York State, thus
freeing Mr. Brewer to devote full time to indus—
trial recreation and park recreation. Mr. Nesbitt,
graduate of Ohio State, has served the NRA for
many years and is well-known for his field work in
twenty-eight states and in Canada. MrWBrewer,
also a graduate of Ohio State, has been 'with the
association for a long time, too, as field representa-
tive and in charge of industrial recreation.

Richard S. Westgate, formerly superintendent of
recreation in Portland, Maine, joined the associa-
tion staff in August, 1950, to be district representa—
tive in New England, covering Maine, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecti—
cut and Rhode Island. At one time, he served
as the first full-time superintendent of recreation
in Montpelier, Vermont; his initial professional
experience in the public recreation field having
been obtained in Reading, Pennsylvania.

Also recently appointed to NRA district field
service in the Great Lakes district area are Robert

\

L. Horney—for Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin,
and John J. Collier—for Indiana, Michigan, Ohio.
(See RECREATION, January I950.—Ed.)

 

R. Westgate

Clarence Brewer

George N eshitt

RECREATION

2W9: -

Clarence E. Brewer

IN THE INDUSTRIAL PLANT

Outlinmg a procedure of establishing management-union cooperation

For some years, labor
. leaders have recognized
the value of employee participation in recreation
activities during off—duty hours. In 1942, Philip
Murray, then president of the CIO, gave an ad-
dress at the National Recreation Congress in
Cincinnati in which he said:

“Unless the men and women in the mills and
factories of this country are provided with ade-
quate recreation facilities, their morale and effi-
ciency on the job will suffer. . . . Recreation, like
education, is a basic human need and should be
provided by the communities where the production
workers live. Organized labor has sponsored and
cooperated with industry and other community
forces in the provision of recreation. This shall
continue to be one of labor’s important objectives.”

Today, national labor unions and affiliates en-
courage local unions to organize their own recrea-
tion programs. (See article on page 219.)

On the other hand, management concern for
employee recreation, dating as far back as 1900,
'has grown into flourishing programs across the
country, many of which are conducted with the
active cooperation of the employees or by the
employees themselves. It is widely acknowledged
by all that recreation programs can make for good
employee relations and good community relations.

The next steps in the progressive development
of the plant recreation program, however, logically
should be cooperation of labor organization and

 

Clarence E. Brewer hat just been placed in charge
of industrial and park recreation on a nationwide
harir by the National Recreation Auociation. For
farther information on thir change, we page 194.

SEPTEMBER 1950

management in correlating all recreation concerns,
interests and objectives into one over-all well-
rounded, well-synchronized recreation program,
and coordination between the total plant program
and the local community recreation program. It
almost goes without saying that such action would
increase employee interest and participation.

Admittedly, there will be some difficulties to
overcome; but, in those instances where the desire
to work together is genuine on both sides, they can
be surmounted to the point where successful co-
operation can exist. It must be borne in mind
that under no centralized administrative control
yet devised has there been a complete absence of
problems growing out of combinations of different
interests. Fortunately, any difficulty can be dis-
cussed and solved if there is a desire on the part
of those involved to work out harmonious relation-
ships.

The establishment of a labor-management spon-
sored recreation program for all plant employees,
regardless of any affiliation, can be very simple,
and not at all difficult to create. There is no need
for a complete' reorganization of administrative
control or of financing. The activity program need
not be changed, but consolidated in specific cases.
Such a plan should provide for a plant recreation
council composed of not less than six, nor more
than twenty members. The number on the council
would depend upon the size of the industry. One-
half of the members should be appointed as man-
agement representatives, and the other as local
union representatives. No member of the council,
however, should feel that he is on the council solely
to represent his respective organization. He should
understand that he is expected to have a genuine

195

desne to work for the best interests of all em-
ployees in conducting a broad range of activities
for them.

The duties Of the council would be the same as
those pertaining tO any executive committee. It
is impossible, however, to fit any activity into a
plant organization without making such activity
responsible to some designated person holding an
executive position. Therefore, the plant council
should be responsible to the personnel director,
public relations director, employee services mana-
ger or other person with similar status who should
be the advisor or consultant for the council—-—just
as an employed recreation director must be respon—
sible to a designated person in a company executive
position. If management pays the salary of the
director, and if the company is to assume responsi-
bility for the acts of the recreation director legally,
it is necessary for the company to employ him;
otherwise, the company could not be held respon-
sible.

In the financing of the consolidated programs,
existing means of financing should continue, with
the local.union contributing the amount stipulated
by the bylaws of the union, or by other means
agreed upon. Ways Of financing employee recrea—
tion programs usually are by either one or all of
the following methods:

a. appropriations from the company

b. appropriations from the union

c. profits from vending machine and canteen

sales

(1. membership fees, admission charges for cer—

tain events

e. making some activities self-supporting.

The plant recreation council should compile an
annual budget and provide the ways and means of
meeting expenses of the program. The treasurer
of the council should be bonded, and all monies
derived from any activity should be deposited with
the treasurer, who will keep proper records Of in-
come and expenses and submit monthly reports to
the plant council. The plant council should have
the necessary authority to discharge properly its
duties. It should make policies concerning recrea-
tion activities only, deciding which activities are to
be promoted or which old activities are to be
abandoned, and it should also make a careful selec—
tion of committee personnel.

In large plants where there are a number of
departments, divisions or other manual working
units——-each large enough to have its own workers’
recreation committee for departmental activities—-—a
departmental or unit committee should be selected
by the plant recreation council. Each unit com-

196

mittee should select its own officers, and be re-
sponsible for the departmental or unit recreation
activities. The chairman Of the departmental com—
mittee should meet monthly with the plant recre—
ation council in order that each member be kept in—
formed of program activities, and to coordinate
plant recreation programs.

In smaller plants, it would be advisable for the
plant recreation council to appoint activity com-
mittees—-—such as a bowling committee, and so on—~——
to conduct specific activities. The chairman Of each
activity committee would meet with the plant rec-
reation council monthly and be responsible to the
council and the recreation director.

Experience has shown that administrative ma-
chinery runs more smoothly if the employees enjoy
the control of their own recreation program. Pro-
grams which provide activities offering employee
participation according to individual interests, in-
clinations and skills will also provide equal oppor—
tunity for the development of leadership qualities.
The planning of the programs should be done
largely by representatives Of labor and of manage-
ment through joint management-labor committees.
There should be a sincere and cooperative spirit
between labor and management, free from any
selfish interests and gains, and a better understand-
ing Of the need for clear thinking and active doing.

Confriéuford anal griencld—

Please accept our hearty thanks for the
good program material which you are con-
stantly sending to the association, and to
its publications department! This ma-
terial includes your local bulletins, an—
nual reports, announcements Of special
local events, newspaper clippings, and so
on. There often is not time to write a
special letter of thanks to each of you; but
please know that such material is valuable
indeed and that we always are grateful.
Whenever possible, we pass it on to others
via the magazine or the bulletin service——
and, in addition, it keeps us up-tO—date on
the progress you are making and the in-
teresting things which you are doing.
Please continue to remember us.

HEADQUARTERS STAFF
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

RECREATION

When a University

and Community Cooperate

Jean D. Gramhs

as E NEED LEADERS and assistant leaders,”

Wcried the directors of youth agencies in
Palo‘Alto, California.

“Our students need more experience with young
people before they go out to teach,” said members
of the faculty of the Stanford University School of
Education.

Was there any one solution to meet both needs?
Yes, for Palo Alto and Stanford found the answer.

The roots of this unique story of university-
community cooperation lie in the program of the
Palo Alto Youth Coordinating Council, a meeting
ground for all local agencies concerned with the
welfare of youth. 'The council finds places in the
community where it can be of service, establishes a
program and, when the program has proved its
merit, encourages another local agency to continue
its sponsorship. Thus it worked on the leadership
problem of the youth agencies. A committee was
appointed by the coordinating council to see if
some method could not be found which would pro-
vide a continuing source of leaders and assistants,
and came to the conclusion that part of the solution
was in the School of Education at Stanford.

Starting on an experimental basis, students
working for a high school teaching credential were
apprenticed to local youth groups for one or more
quarters in connection with a required course. The
council agreed to finance the services of an expert
in group work leadership training for the first
year, who was to give the neophyte group leaders
some basic skills and orientation in the work.

Each student enrolled in the general methods

Jean D. Grazme i: atrium: profeuor of educa-
tion, School of Education, Stanford Univerrity.

SEPTEMBER 1950

course—required of all teacher candidates—was
assigned to one of the local youth agencies after
each supervisor had outlined the leadership possi-
bilities in his agency. On the basis of the student's
previous experience and special skill, he was as-
signed to a youth group as leader or assistant
leader; or, in some cases, two students would take
over joint leadership. About fifteen hours of class
time were devoted to lectures and discussions con-
cerning the problems of leading youth groups.
During the first quarter of the experiment, agency
supervisors attended the special class sessions and
met frequently with the instructor outside of class
to assess the program. Towards the end of the
quarter, student representatives, agency supervi—
sors, the group work consultant and the course in-
structor sat down together to evaluate the experi-
ence. Out of this discussion came many suggestions
for ways to make the activity more meaningful for
the students and more effective in terms of the
agency programs.

This general pattern was followed for the three
quarters of the first year of the program. Many
changes in administration occurred; the content of
the group work part of the course was made more
realistic; methods of evaluating student participa-
tion were deve10ped. Agency supervisors were
learning the kind of introduction to the agency that
students need, and the School of Education was
learning more about its students as potential
teachers. The students themselves are in almost
complete agreement that the experience with youth
groups was tremendously valuable in preparing
them for teaching.

The participating agencies also are very enthusi-
astic about the program. Agency supervisors tell

197

us that these college students add a new zest to
their whole leadership program. They have new
ideas, a point of view untrammeled by the “agency
attitude,” a genuine interest in the work and in the
children and, last but not least, they are very popu-
lar with the children in their groups.

As the course is organized now, the students
write rather extensive reports during the quarter
of their assignment to active leadership. A gen-
eral outline has been prepared by the instructor
with the advice and criticism of the agency super-
visors, which helps the students see the problems
of leadership, individual and group behavior, and
to apply what is learned to later school and class-
room situations.

Each agency supervisor comes to the class every
two weeks for one hour for a group supervision
session with the students assigned to his agency.
During the first three w"eeks of the course, the in—
structor concentrates on helping the students de—
velop leadership skills and understanding. Class
discussions, lectures, sociodramas, outside reading

are utilized in the training. Since the basic con-
cepts of group dynamics are as vital for the teacher
in the classroom as for a group leader, it is felt
that this emphasis is a sound part of teacher—train-
ing. The discussion leads towards a clearer under-
standing of the teacher as a democratic leader,
rather than as an autocrat.

Participating agencies include the Girl Scouts,
Boy Scouts, YMCA, YWCA, and the Palo Alto
Recreation Department. Approximately 300 stu-
dents have taken part in the program during the
six quarters that it has been in operation. Of this
number, about one-fifth have continued to work
with their youth group voluntarily for one or more
quarters. A number have become camp counselors
during the summer as a result of this class experi-
ence. Best of all, these teachers-to-be now have a
genuine appreciation of the role of the voluntary
agency in contributing to youth welfare, and a
deep desire to bring these values into the class-
room. This program can be tried by any commu—
nity that is near a teacher-training institution.

 

 

o “I am Sam Brake of Rocky Mount, North
Carolina; and my work is dairying.

“I went out to work this afternoon. When I went
to an adjoining barn to feed the herd bull he' was
standing squarely over his feed box. I said ‘Move
Buster’; Buster didn’t move. I said ‘Move Bus-
ter’; Buster didn’t move.

“I didn’t know what to do.

“I thought about the square dance lessons I had
learned at the recreation institute in Rocky Mount.
I put into practice the step left and swing right.
Yes, I stepped left and ‘swung.’ I struck old
Buster right up under the edge of the barn. That
made him mad; he turned to charge. I didn’t have

198

SQUARE DANCE WITH A BULL

At a recent recreation institute conducted by Anne Livingston of
the National Recreation Association, the class presented her with
a token of appreciation. Sam Brake, a quiet, shy man, made the
presentation. After telling how much the week had meant to
him, he nearly broke up the meeting by unexpectedly going into
the following story: '

1‘

a pitchfork, which is the best weapon in a case like
this. In the barnyard slush I did the ‘step and

.slide.’ I stepped one step and slid back two steps.

I stepped again and slid back two steps. There I
was, nearer Buster than ever.

“What was I to do? Again I turned to the
square dance lesson. I did a do-si—do right (half
way). Now I am at the other end of the maddest
bull in the state. This was temporary relief, but
Buster was still between me and the barn. Again
I turned to dancing. With no right hand to clasp,
I grabbed hold of Buster by the tail and shouted
‘Allemande right’ and swung this beast half way
around. Now I am in front; my next thought was

’i,

‘Promenade home .

RECREATION

HOBBIES

 

THE REGENERATION 0F  A

John

McNamara
demonstrates.

 

AFTER FORTY YEARS of banishment to the stor-
age room, Chicago is watching hand-painted
china come back to modern dining rooms with—'-
please excuse the mixed metaphor—a crash!

Most housewives are glad to welcome beautifully
hand-decorated service plates on easily-cleaned
hangers, to add attractiveness to their bare dining
room walls. Tall, graceful chocolate sets, their
delicate beige backgrounds splashed with full—
blown white roses, are also reappearing in gift
shop windows.

Singlehandedly, eighty-year-old John McNa-
mara is promoting a recreation movement in local
china-painting circles. Having retired from forty
years of service with the Chicago Board of Educa-
tion, he is surrounded, from morning till night, by
old-timers brushing up on an almost forgotten art,
and by china enthusiasts who drop in to pick up
new ideas from the old master while using his gas-
lired kiln.

The walls of his living room are adorned with
paintings whose skillful execution attest to his prog-
ress. One landscape depicts a herd of sheep de-
scending a steep hill in his favorite vacation spot.
the Canadian Rockies, and is a masterpiece of
finely-wrought detail.

Since \Vorld \Var II, something new has been

Mr. Olren take: a lively irzterert in reporting
unmual recreation activitie: of Chicago reriderm.

SEPTEMBER 1950

Paul Olsen

added to simplify the McNamara technique.
Through relatives of an ex-GI grandson who
married overseas, he obtains lovely scenic decals
of featherweight transparency from Nuremberg,
Germany. After a suitable background color has
been tinted in, the decals are applied to the plates
with a colorless mucilage. The decorators then
“white out” much of the detail and brighten colors
with their own powder and turpentine mixtures.

The completed work is placed in the kiln and
fired up to live hundred degrees. \Vhen it achieves
a bright red glow, the gas is turned off and the
china is allowed to cool in the closed kiln. The
results are delicate Watteau-like paintings on pas-
tel backgrounds, bordered with the painters’ choice
of tiny floral decals or etched gold.

Only recently the 'McNamara alumni dispatched
a state-sealed order for gold service plates etched
with hydrofluoric acid to the governor’s mansion
in Boise, Idaho. Orders for the specialized grape-
cluster designs also flow in steadily from far points
of the country to which their fame has spread.

John recently journeyed to Louisville, at the in-
vitation of the American Radiator Company, to
demonstrate the painting and firing of bathroom
tiles. He also makes week-end jaunts to coach su-
burban assemblies of oldsters whose enthusiasm
for a lost art has been revived. Graduate pupils
stand in as instructors during these trips. Many of
them have opened studios in their own homes.

In Spite of the steadily—increasing demand for
hand-painted china in the 5110ps, with delicately-
tinted Dresden figures ranking as best—sellers in
the wedding gift department, John McNamara de-
rives all of his compensation from the happiness of
his older students. Estimating the unused talent
lying idle throughout the country as immeasurable,
he thinks all former practitioners of his beloved art
ought to get out their old square shader brushes
and dust off the paintbox for a new lease on life.

199

RECREATION
LEADERSHIP
TRAINING

IN HIGH SCHOOL

\Villiam B. Pond and Gene L. Coulon

ECREATION is not just a term applied to the

leisure time of boys and girls; nor is it ap-
plicable only where an established recreation pro-
gram is carried out. It involves the leisure-time
activities of everyone from the tiny tot to the
oldster. '

The schools of today have as a motto “Education
for Living” and, in their program, they include
such activities as physical education, shop, hand-
crafts, art, dramatics, music. In fact, anything
which might enrich the daily life of the student at
the moment or provide a carry—over activity for
adult life is now being offered in many schools.

However, in few, if any, cases is the student
given the basic philosophy of leisure—time activity
or taught how to apply its carry-over values in
terms of his daily leisure activities. Neither is the
student given the training nor the opportunity to
utilize his organizational and planning abilities in
regard to recreation or leisure—time activities. Even
though today he may be fortunate enough to live
in a community with an established recreation pro-
gram, it does not follow that he always will. A
situation may arise wherein if he does not have
leadership skills and the know-how to organize
activities in his own community, that community

 

-Mr. Coalon succeeded Mr. Pond as director of rec-
reation, Renton, Washington. Mr. Pond is now the

acting supervisor of the Recreation Division of State
Parks and Recreation Commission of Washington.

200

will have no Opportunities for such activities.

Well-aware of these facts, the recreation council
in Renton, Washington, and the local school dis-
trict decided to attempt to enrich the school pro-
gram by jointly offering a recreation leadership
training class in high school, open to eleventh and
twelfth grade boys and girls. This class has now
been in operation for nearly three years and the
results, from the standpoint of the school, student,
and the recreation department, are certainly very
gratifying indeed.

The course is set up on the same basis as a
business training course or any similar course,
with the class meeting one hour per day for the
first semester for one graduation credit. The sec-
ond semester is on a project basis, also entitling
the student to one graduation credit. However, the
student is required to put in 125 hours of actual
on—the-spot leadership under the direct supervision
of the local playground leader before any credit is
given. These 125 hours entitle him to one more
credit, making available three graduating credits in
one school year.

The first semester is devoted entirely to lectures,
discussions and demonstrations in the classroom,
using as a text Adventures in Recreation by Weav-
er Weddell Pangburn, supplemented by the fol—
lowing material:

The Recreation Ildovement in America; A Brief Bib-
liography for the Recreation Library; Recreation Leader—
ship as a Field of lVork; Recreation Leadership Stand-
ards; Some Leadership “Do’s”; Training Volunteers for
Recreation Service; Community Recreation Buildings as
Il’ar IlIemorials; Recreation Areas—Their Design and
Equipment; Selected Bibliography on the Construction,
Administration and Operation of Swimming Pools;
ABC’s of Public Relations for Recreation; Introduction
to Community Recreation, George D. Butler; Is Park
and Recreation Service a Governmental or Proprietary
Function of Municipal Government?; Playgrounds——
Their Administration and Operation, 'George D. Butler;
Day Camping; 88 Successful Play Activities; Suggestions
for an Amateur Circus (MP 26); Water Games and
Stunts (MP 158); Gay Nineties (MP 314); Indoor
Carnival; The Barn Dance Returns; “Good M orning,”
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Ford; Arts and Crafts for the Rec-
r’eation Leader; Craft Projects that Can Be Made with
Inexpensive and Discarded Materials (MP 256); Ad—
venturing in Nature; Home Again (MP 321); Home
Play; Home Playground and Indoor' Play Room (MP
73) ; Homemade Play Apparatus (MP 277) ; On a Rainy
Day, Derothy Canheld Fisher and Sarah Fisher Scott;
Parks—A Manual of Municipal and County Parks; Parks

RECREATION

and Recreation in the Postwar Period; Recreation for
Girls and l'l’omen, Ethel Bowers; Active Games and
Contests, Mason and Mitchell; The Normal Course in
Play, Joseph Lee; Public Education in Washington,
George D. Strayer; Games for the Playground, Home,
School and Gymnasium, Bancraft; Play in Education,
Joseph Lee; The Administration of Public Recreation,
George H j elte.

Stress is laid upon the recreational philOSOphy of
the group and the individual, and a thorough study
made of programs, administration, sources of
finance, problems pertaining to specific age groups
and skills. Use is made of specialists in different
fields, who act as resource people.

The second semester is devoted to individual
projects, with each student responsible for the
complete planning, organization, promotion, actual
events, probable costs and other pertinent facts of
a special program. Special recognition is given to
the student for organization of any actual activities.
For example, our students this year actually or-
ganized and helped conduct touch football leagues,
baseball leagues, dance classes, soccer teams and
tournaments, Christmas programs, dramatic clubs,
junior clubs, social dances, basketball tournaments,
marble contests, finger painting, model airplane
clubs and many other projects.

The 125 hours are divided so that the student
works ninety hours in fields with which he is
familiar—for example, in athletics, music, dramat-
ics—and thirty-five hours in fields which are
foreign to him but in which he has shown some
interest.

It is much too early to evaluate the long-range
benefits of this program since time, and only time,
will tell. However, it is apparent from recent
reports that a higher percentage of students of the
recreation leadership class in Renton are pursuing
recreation study in college than from any other
high school in the state. While this is not the sole
purpose of the class, as many recreation leaders will
recognize, it is a healthy situation in view of the
rapidly-eXpanding field of recreation and the con-
sequent need for competent leadership.

Another value witnessed over this three-year
period, and one that is desperately needed by so
many recreation organizations, is the help that the
course has given in the selling of a recreation pro-
gram to the community. This is constantly done
by present and past students of the class. The

SEPTEMBER 1950

knowledge gained through student participation as
to the complicities of over-all organization has
given them a clear understanding of some of the
problems facing recreation. Consequently, they, in
their daily contact with students and adults, are
acquainting others with the problems that must be
overcome before the desired results can be at-
tained. This creates an interest on the part of
citizens, and citizen-interest in any worthwhile
community project usually brings results.

This year, members of the class have planned
and organized weekly teen-age dances. Three adult
supervisors are in attendance, but the class mem-
bers carry out the complete program. Attendance
averages about 700 young peOple and, needless to
say, a good time is had by all. This helps to prove
that youth, given the proper instruction and guid-
ance, is able to handle such situations.

Another example of individual organization by
the students is the conducting of story hours and
children’s games. As members of the class live in
various sections of the greater Renton area, they
can reach outlying neighborhoods and districts
easily. In his own locality, a student meets with
the parents of children who are of pre-school and
elementary age and explains the program offered
through the recreation council. In this way, the
parents become acquainted with the values of rec-
reation and are extremely happy to have their chil-
dren participate in the program under competent
leadership. The number taking an active part in
this student-supervised activity ranges from ten in
the neighborhoods to seventy-five in the commu-
nity centers.

It is only fair to say that the class is still in the
embryonic stage, but as time progresses and condi-
tions change, the necessary adjustments in class
and field work will be made. So far, it has not been
necessary to make any drastic changes.

It is most gratifying to see these students use
their leisure for volunteer work in our community
centers and playgrounds. This is one of the objec-
tives we had hoped for but of which we could not
be certain. The school district, park board and rec—
reation council feel that the program certainly has
shown merit; and not only do the benefits derived
have bearing on local thought, but the possibility of
future benefits to the community is becoming more
and more evident.

201

I’svehologists tell us that everyone has certain fundamental

needs. High on this list is the need for adventure.

Let’s [:0 0n a THUR!

 

Too often we do not capitalize
upon our local community re—
sources. In program planning
for boys and girls, our activi—
ties do not extend into the
heart of the community.

Field excursions to points of
interest may be easily and economically arranged
to meet a holiday need for a trip program. These
experiences, resplendent with ever—changing set-
tings and new adventure, present another type of
leisure-time project for the private or public rec-
reation agency.

Local factories, stores, municipal buildings and
other civic points of worth are awaiting the pres—
ence of a supervised recreation group. Commercial
concern oflicials invariably are happy to arrange
for a group tour of their plant. Most cities present
a wide selection of choices for a varied and fascinat—
ing selection of visitation sites. The public rela—
tions valu‘e, especially if the group carries some
identifying shirts, tags or bands, is worthy of note.
Youngsters, while having fun, are actually learning
through observation and experience with real and
tangible values in the community.

 

 

Frederick M. Chapman is graduate anistant, recreation
division of the University of Minnerota, Minneapolis.

202

The Grand Crossing-Chatham department of the
Chicago YMCA has, for several years, sponsored
holiday trip clubs for local boys and girls. These
programs have been entitled the “Winter Fun
Club,” “Spring Fun Club,” and so on—-—in harmony
with scheduled holiday vacations that the children
found hanging heavy on their hands. Through the
media of newspapers, mimeographed flyers, bulletin
boards and school classrooms, the advance sched—
ule of trips is made available to the young people.
Transportation fees for the tours are kept low. An
advance registration assures a specific attendance
number and simplifies planning for adequate lead—
ership.

Imagine the thrill for members of one touring
group to have had the‘opportunity to shake hands
with the mayor! He gladly c00perated in taking
three minutes out of his busy day to say “hello.”
While in the courthouse, this group was invited
to view the city jail and to participate in a mock
session of juvenile court.

Parents respond heartily to the addition of such
informative trips to supplement the regular athletic
and club programs that so typify many leisure—
time agencies; while, for the youngsters, these ac—
tivities add excitement and zest, creating days long
to be remembered.

Your community may have a courthouse, news—

RECREATION

Frederick M. Chapman

 

Seventy boys and girls, during tour arranged by recreation director of Port
Chester, N. Y., inspect American airlines facilities at La Guardia Airport.

paper plant or sausage factory. The possible points
of interest are endless, depending upon your par-
ticular geographic setting. Among the places of
interest to boys and girls that have proved to be
of consistent value are bakeries, telephone build-
ings, airports, state capitals, university athletic de-
partments, soft drink plants, farms, cookie factories
and federal reserve banks.

‘Several valuable suggestions for successful trip
planning and execution include:

I. Arrange in advance with the proper official
regarding the number in group, time of arrival and
other conditions. A few days before your sched—

uled excursion, verify the particulars with the place-

to be visited.

2. Select destinations that appeal to your age
group, that are of interest to children, and that as-
sure you of some educational and recreative values.

3. Secure written parent permission for each
child participant. This may be easily done through
a blank to be returned with the fee and registra-
tion.

4. Invite parents to come as volunteer leaders.
Check with them in advance regarding their re-
sponsibilities while on the tour.

5. Require all trip members to return to the
agency at tour termination to avoid miscounted
children and misunderstandings.

SEPTEMBER 1950 r

 

    

6. Use the “buddy system.” Have youngsters
walk in couples during the greater part of the ex-
cursion. At crowded intersections, police will be
glad to assist your group in crossing the street.

7. If the boys and girls number well over thirty,
divide them into squads or “tribes.” Each sub-
group may wear a colored badge, tag or arm band.
A leader or “chief” is responsible for his tribe’s
behavior and order.

8. Through identifying devices (T-shirts, badges,
caps, banners, ribbons), your agency will leave a
real interpretive thought with the many factory or
building employees who temporarily delay their
work to gaze upon ,the touring youngsters who are
so eager to learn and explore.

   

@ngglMMQ ’

5-047

o0
flogging  r

Tots-any . I Nun-nun ' Tuoasuv LL Fatal-.1

 

 

‘— ~-i v but 5....7- - _——-1

5Mt§~7€r5€§ Trip 1'. P‘H.aa;".{+ lav (lat
"\et‘l'W‘t"‘/: N0\“\W¢ST¢\'\ '36 Gomcn 4t“. I'H'CI, £12.
Inc-3:15 Nation!“ 3"" lkc 'Y'-I:oo-;Trc, t. 514'
_—- Swim.9wniwh'! 3:‘s- ‘— Tribvng—2:oo.
Y foo|.|1:‘lf'-

M‘QKCO)  
I an”!  a:

H I.‘ ‘vd I' "Cm ' ’.

 

 

 

-’”—_‘W“ n. w————-—————- fr.

,Ml antiquities bq‘m I‘dnxlv‘i-Ll hung on open-won cf ’1'.

 

In (an. 0! rain, "It." .§ '1’ f." .ltcnulc. grind-v.
‘Fv_-# “arr-tr r“. I-—

 

203

    

OCTOBER 2-6, 1950

 

Same 1w MW 2mm

Register curly! And while you are registering,
get your tickets for the special events of the week
that require them—the National Recreation Con-
gress banquet on Tuesday evening, a tour of Cleve—
land on \Vednesday- afternoon, and the special
luncheons.

The Congress will start out bright and early
Monday morning with special conferences for rec—
reation and park executives, industrial recreation
leaders, hospital recreation leaders, and rural rec-
reation leaders. These conferences will last all
day; and the industrial recreation conference will
run over into Tuesday.

For purposes of welcoming everyone 'and of
gathering together new and old friends, right at
the start, the National Recreation Association in-
vites all registered delegates to tea on Monday af-
ternoon from four-thirty to six. Many NRA staff
members and Mr. Prendergast, executive director,
will be looking forward to greeting you.

After attending the opening general session on
Monday night, remember the traditional play dem-
onstration in which everyone participates.

On Monday, Tuesday and Thursday afternoons,
there will be sessions of the Congress recreation
leadership training courses. Inquire at the regis-
tration desk, or consult your official program, for
the courses which will be presented. NRA train-
ing specialists will be in charge. Register at the
registration desk for any course you want to take.

Have you received your copy of the Congress
Preliminary Pamphlet? You will need it to plan
your activities during the session. If you haven’t,
send a request postcard to T. E. Rivers, Secretary,
Recreation Congress Committee, 315 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York IO, New York. The official pro-
gram will not be available until you register.
Meet the folks! When registering, plan to take a
few extra minutes to greet our faithful old friends,
the manufacturers of recreation equipment, pub-
lishers and other exhibitors, who will be in the

204

immediate vicinity of the registration desk. You

will, of course, want to revisit them frequently

during the week to discuss accumulated questions

on equipment.

Ackley, Bradley & Day, Sewickley, Pa.

Ahrens Manufacturing Co., Grinnell, Iowa

American Handicrafts Co., East Orange, N. J.

'American Playground Device Co., Anderson, Ind.

American Recreation Society, Washington, D. C.

Association Press, New York, N. Y.

Aviation Products Co., New York, N. Y.

A.-S. Barnes & Co., New York, N. Y.

Beach and Pool, New York, N. Y.

Wesley Bintz, Lansing, Mich.

J. E. Burke Co., Fond du Lac, Wis.

Cleveland Crafts Co., Cleveland, Ohio

The Coca-Cola Co., Atlanta, Ga. '

The Folk Dancer, Flushing, N. Y.

Frost Woven Wire Co., Washington, D. C.

Game-Time, Litchfield, Mich.

Hillerich & Bradsby Co., Louisville, Ky.

J. C. Larson, Chicago, Ill.

MacGregor Goldsmith, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio

Magnus Brush & Craft Materials, New York,
N. Y.

McLaughlin—Millard, Inc., Dolgeville, N. Y.

'National Amateur Baseball Federation, Louisville,
Ky.

National Bowling Council, Washington, D. C.

National Society for Crippled Children and Adults,
Chicago, 111.

Pennsylvania Rubber Co., Jeannette, Pa.

Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City, N. Y.

J. E. Porter Corp., Ottawa, 111.

Rawlings Manufacturing Co., St. Louis, Mo.

Square Dance Associates, Freeport, N. Y.

Takapart Products Co., Freeport, N. Y.

United States Rubber Co., New York, N. Y.

W. J. Voit Rubber Corp., LosrAngeles, Calif.

Weaver Wintark Sales Co., Shamokin, Pa.

Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, Ill.

9 REOCREATION

CLEVELAND, OHIO

 

    

The Honorable
Carl V. Weygandt

0n tée P1043461!”

General Sessions

 
  
 

Dr. Daniel A. Poling

Cleveland as seen from Terminal Tower; public
auditorium and stadium are shown in background.

C ONGRESS general sessions programs will be

of special interest this year. For instance, dele-
gates will hear a panel of college presidents—
chaired by the Honorable Carl V. Weygandt, Chief
Justice of the Ohio Supreme Court—discuss the
significance of recreation in the world today; col-
lege responsibility to students on the campus;
their responsibility for the “preparation and train-
ing of professional recreation leaders; the training
of the student body for service to communities;
how recreation can help to develop the character-
istics and ideals of democracy; and how far the
government has a responsibility for recreation.

 

Frederick L. Hovde
President of Purdue

SEPTEMBER 1950

William E. Stevenson

President of Oberlin

In much the same way, a panel of mayors from
different parts of the country and different kinds
of cities, presided over by Harold Buttenheim, edi-
tor of the American City magazine, will discuss
recreation as a part of municipal service. Dr.
Daniel A. Poling, who is president of the Inter-
national Society of Christian Endeavor, president
and editor of the Christian Herald and editor of
the Christian Endeavor World, will address an
evening meeting. Dr. Poling is an honorary mem—
ber of the National Recreation Association. Joseph
Prendergast, executive director of the NRA, will
be one of the principal evening speakers.

 

John Scholf Millis
Pres. Western Reserve

205

 

AM SURE that you have often wondered
about the purpose of life, of your life.
\Vhy are we here; why do some suc—
ceed; why do some fail? Why such a variety of
Opinion as to what is success, what is failure? If
there is a great purpose back of our existence, and
a great aim to be accomplished, then why do we
at times seem to fail? Are we simply average; are
we above average? If average, we are as near the
bottom all the time as we are near the top. That
is not a very inspiring outlook. 'Can we wrap up
these various contrary thoughts into one package
and place our name on it?

I am sure that we have all had the experience of
coming to the end of a day with the feeling that
nothing has been accomplished, and that the day
has been entirely lost. But even to have lived with
the thoughts of supposed failure in our mind, and
to have done our best with the ability we have, is
to have lived a successful life.

Too many people fail in life through trying to
outdo someone else. We rather should constantly
try to outdo ourselves. Let us hitch our wagon to
an occasional star and give it a chance to go places.
That does not mean we will always accomplish that
which we desire or to which we aspire. Maybe we
are not willing to pay the price to bring to maturity
the dreams we have had. Maybe our plans were
too small. Small plans lack the magic to stir the
imagination.

The faith that is in us is not just a front for
special occasions. It is the real person—yesterday,
today and tomorrow. It is the driving force that
carries on when you think that you are through,
when you want to quit, when you think that you
are not being paid enough, when you wonder if the
results are worth the candle, when life has dealt
you a bad streak of luck, when even your best
friends do not seem to understand you. Hamlet, in
his great soliloquy, reasoned thus: “To be, or not

 

 

Ant/201' i: mperintendem of recreation, Lancaster, Pa.

206

The FAITH

to be, that is the question. Whether ’tis nobler in
the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of out-
rageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of
troubles, and by opposing end them.” Dr. Frank
Crane said: “The great soul has its resources with-
in itself. The small soul looks to outside things and
other people.”

None of us really tap the hidden springs of our
being when things are easy and everything is going
fine. Why should we put forth a Special effort if
it is not necessary? Don’t try to run away from
trouble or to by—pass problems—they may be_your
best friends.

Character, spirit, personality are just as much
in need of exercise as your biceps if they are going
to be strong to meet combat, opposition, stress and
strain of being misunderstood. This faith that is
in us then is not something to wish for’and hope
someday will be ours. It is something for which
we fight; something that comes from self—discipline.
Its very strength is that intangible spirit that never
says die. If we are not willing to pay the price of
coniiict, we are not prepared to share the glories
of the faith that can move mountains. In addition
to being prepared to fight, we must be prepared to
serve. An abounding faith built entirely on the
cafeteria or self-service plan has little value. The
word “service” connotates others. It means giving,
not getting.

Granted that each of us, as a separate entity, is
entitled to his place in the sun, we all owe a great
deal to the past. A great many of our present ideas
and methods of procedure come from our prede-
cessors and are available to us not only as an in-
spiration, but as a sound philosophy. Your life
need not be limited to your own personal practice.
If we were compelled to confine our thinking within
the narrow range of our own short period of con—
scious living, our lives would indeed be shallow.
You can live intimately with all the grandeur of the

‘ Paper presented at the Twenty-ninth Annual Disu'iCt Recreation
Conference. Buck Hill Falls. Pennsylvania, April 1950.

RECREATION

-'. That Is in US*

Grant D. Brandon

past. This is yours for the seeking. A dip into the
stream of great thoughts that have preceded us is
not only a privilege, but a duty. The outstanding
figures in the field of recreation in the early days
are a rich source of inSpiration.

Mr. Braucher wrote, in the September, 1949_

issue of RECREATION: “Much evil comes from not

recognizing that most men and women, including

ourselves, are so built that they need leisure in liv-
ing as they need food, .water and sleep. This little
children know. If, as men gain maturity, without
losing maturity they can retain the child’s ability to
live fully each day, then this world would become a
much easier planet for all.” And, in May, 1948:
“The great job of the recreation movement is to
find the pe0ple who have the gift of helping to keep
all of time and existence alive.”

Dr. Lawrence P. Jacks, a noted English writer
and editor who visited our country on a tour in
1932, offers something to enlarge and strengthen
that faith of ours. “The art of living is one and
indivisible. It is not a composite art made up of
adding the art of play to the art of work, or the
art of leisure to the art of labor, or the art of body
to the art of mind, or the art of recreation to the art
of education. When life is divided into these or
any other compartments, it can never become an
art but, at best, is a medley or at worst a mess.
The happiness that man’s nature demands is im-
possible until the creative part of him is awakened;
until his skill hunger is satisfied. Man’s happiness,
the happiness for which he was created, comes
from within himself.”

The breadth and richness of the recreation
movement in America today owe much to Dr. John
Houston Finley, who gave thirty years of his life
to the recreation movement. “It will be a far more
difficult task of civilization to teach men to use
leisure rightly than to instruct them how to labor
efficiently . . . Most of us waste enough time to
make ourselves great musicians, artists, scholars,
poets, able to minister our avocation to human hap-

SEPTEMBER 1950

 

This paper could very easily be
our collective thinking on the sub-
ject of faith. I am simply the
record speaking. Much of it is
ours, not mine, and has come as a
result of our association for nearly
a quarter of a century. It is at

times impossible to say what is
really you and what is the result
of your associations. What you
may like in the paper, claim as
your own; what you do not like,
let that be mine—Grant Brandon

piness, even beyond that which we can do in our
vocation.”

On the other hand, the father of recreation, our
beloved Joseph Lee, said: “\Ve aim to develop
power; we train the muscles and the mind, but we
are no longer content unless these serve as avenues
to something deeper. The question is not of learn-
ing, nor yet of power, but of character. If the les-
son has struck home, the result is not merely more
knowledge or more intelligence, but more boy or
girl, more of a person there for all purpose. If
arithmetic has truly reached him, he will play bet-
ter football; if his football has been a real thing, he
will do better arithmetic. That is the test of true
educational experience—that it leaves a larger per-
sonality behind.”

The business of life is the translation of ideas
into action—in other words, to find out what you
want to do and do it.

In this age of uncertainty and turmoil, when peo-
ple and nations are testing ideas and wings, our
anchor must be the faith that is within its. Blessed
is he who has a good anchor, and sad is the indi-
vidual lacking this anchor to leeward.

One of Freud’s great theories is that a person
becomes what he is by imitation, not only in child-
hood, but in adulthood. If we have strong and
courageous models to imitate, we are indeed
blessed. Unfortunately, our models too often are
themselves weak and immature vessels and, as our
society becomes infiltrated with isms and strange
questionable doctrines contrary to democratic
ideals, the whole structure weakens.

Whether our environment is the controlling fac-
tor or not, our personal responsibility is colored
by the fact that each of us has some influence on
others, as others have influence on us. The finer

207

qualities of one's mind and heart are extremely
Contagious. Some people live as if this influence
sunply radiated, like light and heat, and they dis-
claim any responsibility for its effect on others.
Life is a thoroughfare upon which we find our-
selves travelers, not just blind baggage shipped
nowhere in particular, with no purpose or destina-
tion in view. Not until we begin to give of our-
selves do we come to realize how wonderful it is to
have the power of influence. Keep it true to the
highest in your nature for it might be truthfully
said that the richest portion of our eternal signifi-
cance is the influence, by example, of our lives
upon the men, women and children with whom we
are privileged to associate.

I cannot conceive of a just God mocking us with
desires and aspirations beyond our capabilities of
attaining. \Vhat a man can imagine, he can ac-
complish. \Vhen the sparks of inventive genius
come, which all alive people experience at times,
don’t simply pass it off as a pipe dream, but ride.
the inspiration for all it is worth.

Remember, life owes you nothing. You are in—
debted to it for the opportunity it has given you.
Maybe all you now need is to awaken that slumber-
ing giant within you, turn him loose on some of
the dreams you have been afraid of until now.

Let us not lose ourselves in things, but rather

 

“A Treasury of Living”

in ideas. No one would question the fact that our
civilization is predominately one of material prog—
ress rather than one of spiritual ideas. Our mate-
rial progress has not given us more character,
more men, more women; it has made life more-
difficult.

No man or woman comes to the end of the road
satisfied with his accomplishments. The great man
is marked by his devotion to the unattainable.
Satisfaction is an indication of arrested develop-
ment. Feed your fires of discontent; they are of
divine origin; their cultivation comes high.

We must recognize the fact that attainment is
never complete. It is a series of continually open-
ing doors. To a degree you can measure your
growth by the number of unattainable things in
your heart. Gains are made by realizing dreams,
but advancement of our civilization comes when
hearts are set upon the impossible. Hitching your
wagon to a star does not give you the star, but

.it does carry you a long distance from the earth.

We all want some degree of success. The only
difference in us is in the strength of our desires.
The failure of any single one of us in whatever
measure is a world failure. We may not in our
own minds seem that important, but what we do

not do may be delayed indefinitely or may be never
done at all.

THE EDITORIALS and holiday messages of the late Howard Braucher have long been a source

of inSpiration to all who have read them. At the request of these many friends, a volume of
his writings have been published by the National Recreation Association so that they may be
preserved for all time. Copies of this limited memorial edition, A Treasury of Living, are now
available from the association at ten dollars for each volume. Each book will be numbered and
inscribed, and all requests will be filled in the order in which they are received.

The cost of this limited edition of one thousand copies has been met by special contribu-
tions, and the entire proceeds from the sale will be placed in the Howard Braucher Memorial
Fund. This is but one of the projects planned to raise money for an appropriate memorial to
the man who gave his life and work to the furtherance of the recreation movement for people

everywhere.

In his introduction to A Treasury of Living, Raymond B. Fosdick writes: “Howard
Braucher preached the gospel of play as an essential part of life. To him, life without recrea-
tion was a living death, and the man who lacked the spirit of play was an empty shell. Because
so much of what he wrote has lasting value, not only for recreation workers, but for all who
are interested in the well-being of mankind, selections from his writings are here presented in
a single volume. They tell a story of whole-hearted devotion to an ideal, of faith in mankind
and of belief in the better world. They are published in the hope that others, reading his
words, may be inspired to carry on Howard Braucher’s work of fostering the spirit of joyous

and abundant living.”

208

RECREATION

W 1TH CHRISTMAS as highly commercialized
as it now is in most cities and communities

throughout the nation, it falls largely to the public
recreation departments to plan, promote and con-
duct non-commercial, non-sectarian civic celebra-
tions of the season. With this in mind, public rec—
reation departments should approach careful plan-
ning and directing of their programs.

Actually, even midsummer is none too early to
lay the initial plans and make personal contacts
with the people of the community who may be
called upon later to assist in the various phases of
the celebration. True, none of these folks will have
“Jingle Bells” or “Old Saint Nick” on his mind
at this time of the year; but, during seasons of
maximum recreation attendance either on play-
grounds or at other recreation centers, it is pos-
sible to become acquainted with the community
interests of great numbers of citizens and, through
these, to note those persons who can and will con-
tribute to the success of such a celebration.

in any event, the planning of publicity, com-
munity decoration, ceremonies and presentations
should be made far enough in advance to meet the
recommendations of the local newspaper and radio-
news agencies, and to give ample time for prepara-
tion by all participants. Each phase of the prepara-
tion for celebration, as well as the celebration itself,
should be publicized by newspaper, radio, letter,
bulletin and personal announcement to all citizens
concerned.

The decoration of the community for the season
is a tremendous job, and requires early planning.
It need not be an expensive one for the depart-
ment if:

A move is instigated to interest the citizenry in
simple home decorations in the motif of the season.
Though it is widely practiced, it is recommended

Aut/aor pioneered in recreation in C orpu: Clarirti and
Texaréana, Texar; later be served a: superintendent
of recreation in Wine/never and Radford, Virginia.

SEPTEMBER 1950

 

Hugh T. Henry

that no prizes be offered for home decoration. It is
most effective to base this program on civic pride
rather than on the competitive spirit;

Arts and crafts projects for the construction of
community Christmas tree decorations, to be hung
at ceremonies by members of these groups, are
introduced into the schools and into the recreation
department’s crafts groups;

Arrangements are made for the volunteer assist-
ance of local organizations in the lighting and
decorating of parks, parkways, public buildings and
recreation areas; and

Arrangement is made for a central community
Christmas tree—preferably as a gift to the com-
munity from some nearby farmer or landholder
who grew the tree or owns the land and gives it
in the spirit of the season.

When funds are available, the recreation depart-
ment may arrange for the lighting and decoration
of special locations by professional or qualified
tradesmen. Seasonal fireworks displays also make
effective, though costly, decorations when and
where such may be safely used. These might be
contributed by civic organizations or financed
through the department budget.

Through the schools and youth organizations,
church choirs and local music groups, caroling
programs may be arranged for presentation at the
community tree, the railroad, bus and airport sta-
tions, hOSpitals (by special arrangement), public
buildings, military and naval stations and recrea-
tion centers. Also, plans can be made for concerts
of Christmas music and leadership of mass carol-
ing throughout the community. The recreation
department should act as clearing agent for groups
desiring to present musical and other programs at
the community tree.

A portable organ or a portable record player
with amplifier, located at the community tree, con-
tributes greatly to the occasion. It is most effective
to use recorded caroling programs from previous
years’ local activities for some of the presenta-

209

tions. 1f local organists are used, all musicians
should be given an equal opportunity to partici—
pate. If recorded music is used, it is wise to select
the greatest variety of numbers possible and not to
plan more than four one-hour programs per day.

The lighting of the community tree should be a
community ceremony with city officials, clergymen,
and the children of the community participating.
A tree decoration ceremony might precede the
lighting ceremony, in which the school, church and
recreation crafts groups hang decorations which
they have made. It may be necessary to limit the
number of decorations to be hung by each group,
and it is effective to have members of .the groups
do the actual hanging under the direction of a gen-
eral supervisor. These programs should not take
place earlier than two weeks before Christmas Day.

Pageants, plays and Christmas readings by
church and dramatic groups may be arranged for
presentation at the community tree and in public
buildings. A schedule should be made for the ar-
rival of the various Santas in public places to avoid
conflict of organization programs.

One of the highlights of the community Christ-
mas celebration should be a mass caroling program
late on Christmas Eve at the community tree——

particularly ’to bring together the young people of
the community after their neighborhood caroling,
and prior to the midnight religious services which
are held in a number of churches. A Christmas
Day parade or promenade of youngsters (ages
three to eight), with their favorite Christmas gifts,
can end with a caroling program at the community
tree to delight parents as well as the children.

When and where possible, some of the music
and dramatic programs may be recorded for broad-
casting or broadcast direct as public service fea-
tures by the local radio stations in cooperation
with the department. Seasonal decorations should
be changed and improved from year to year. Land-
scape artists’ sketches and photographs of decora-
tions are helpful in this planning. Definite plan-
ning for the removal of the decorations and the
dismantling and disposal of the community tree
should be made well in advance and carried out
not later than the morning of January second.
(Some communities conduct a tree—burning cere-
mony.—-Ed.)

A pr0perly handled community Christmas pro—
gram on a non-commercial basis is one of the
strongest public relations programs a department
can achieve.

 

Thrilling Developments in State Hospitals

RECOGNITION OF RECREATION as a vital part of

patients’ days in the state hospitals is a new
phase of Governor Youngdahl’s eXpanded mental
health program in Minnesota.

There are now some sixty leaders employed to
plan and execute recreation activities for 14,550
patients in the nine state hospitals; and new ones
are being taken on weekly. With this influx of spe-
cialized leadership, proposals are being made for
professionalized training and higher standards.

Many of these leaders have had hospital experi—
ence in addition to specialized recreation training.
Recreation students at the University of Minne-
sota have participated in special internships at some
of the state ,hospitals, with particular emphasis on
recreation techniques with mental patients.

The new commissioner of mental health, Dr.
Ralph N. Rossen, has viewed guided recreation
activities as a means of activation for the mentally
ill patient. Through patience and friendliness, the
recreation leader can entice a catatonic patient to
catch a ball. Through repeated efforts and time,

210

this patient may become more responsive to other ~
forms of treatment.

Through activities of the day, the patient is pro-
vided with an outlet for his hostilities. He can find
expression in art, music or drama. Channeling
energies into these constructive areas is of real
value in this eventual rehabilitation of the man or
woman who is mentally ill.

Minnesota’s emphasis on recreation is in charac—
ter with other phases of its program. Some time
ago, hospitals in the state eliminated all strait
jackets, shackles, and other forms of mechanical
restraint. In discarding the use and symbolization
of restraints and their restrictions, Minnesota lead-
ers have chosen recreation as a symbolization and
method of emotional release and eventual freedom
for mental patients. Through the outlets which
recreation provides—activity on a newspaper staff
or in square dancing, on the patients’ council or in
a game of medicine ball—the patient assumes the
dignity and respect which should be his under a
civilized society.

RECREATION

Roller skates
appealto
youngsters in
Oregon, too!

 

REE ROLLER SKATING for the children of Ply-

mouth, Massachusetts, now in its third year,
had a very modest beginning during the Christmas
vacation of 1947. It started when a high school
student expressed a desire to be able to roller skate
without having to drive fifteen miles from home to
do so. The Youth Cooperation Committee of the
Plymouth Woman’s Club needed a project at this
time, and roller skating was the answer.

Of course, everyone said that it couldn’t be done.
To begin with, no one expected the Selectmen to
let us use the Memorial Building—but they did.
We were fortunate in having such a large one
available, with a floor space of fifty by eighty feet,
surrounded by a balcony seating 800 people. Under
the balcony are two dressing rooms with toilets
and washbasins.

Our next problem was that of providing skates
for participants. The Woman’s Club had no money
to buy them, so it was decided that each child
should obtain his own. Skates are expensive, but
it is amazing how many youngsters now own a
pair. Even shoe skates are in evidence. The

Mn. T. Fogarty i: chairman, Youth Cooperation
Committee, Plymouth Woman’: Club, Mattaclamettr.

SEPTEMBER 1950

Jeannette Owens Fogarty

prophets of gloom also expected that there would
be innumerable accidents, but, so far, floor burns
and minor bruises have been the worst casualties.

Luck seemed to be with us most of the way, even
in the question of how to provide music, so neces-
sary for successful skating. The reporter for our
local weekly had a public address system and
record player at the Memorial Building, and he
let us use them free of charge. At first, records
were loaned to us by the children, but as the
roller skating program expanded, we were able to
buy them. A high school senior, interested in elec-
tronics, has kept the player in good running order.

Enthusiasm for the skating program has grown
steadily since the beginning, when we started
with eight boys and girls. From the first, each
youngster was asked to bring a written permit
from his parents saying that he had their permis-
sion to skate at the Memorial Building. Some of
the young people felt that this was very childish,
but when we insisted, they reluctantly complied.
\Vhen a child presented his permit to skate, we
gave him a ticket, at no charge, which was good
for the season. At first, the tickets were just for
prestige, but as the number of skaters grew, they
became really necessary. By the end of March.
.1948, there were 120 children with skating per—
mits. In the meantime, the Kiwanis Club, at our
suggestion, had started evening skating for older
young people.

The following fall, the \Voman’s Club and the
Kiwanis Club opened the second season on the first
of November, the \Voman’s Club again offering

211

free skating to any child with the proper skates
and a permit. The number of children steadily
increased until 230 held tickets for afternoon skat-
ing. The Kiwanis organized a skating club with
dues of a dollar per season. They had 17 5 in their
group, mostly junior high and high school students,
and a few graduates.

During the Christmas vacation of 1948 we were
accommodating 110 children in one afternoon.
This was too many for the floor, which accommo-
dates seventy or eighty skaters very nicely, so we
decided to divide our sessions according to school
grades. The high school and junior high students
——who take their skates to school—continued as
before, since they are out of school and skating
by one-thirty in the afternoon. Since the grade
children are not dismissed until three-fifteen, .and
those of us supervising skating are ready to quit
by four-thirty at the latest, we asked the Grange to
hold an afternoon session for the grade school
pupils. They agreed, and the number of grade
school children enrolled jumped from thirty to
seventy almost immediately.

Last year, all children skating belonged to the
Junior Recreation League. For fifty cents and a
parental permit, a child became a league member
with permission to skate once a week during the
five-month season. Before Thanksgiving, 550
youngsters had joined.

The three sponsoring clubs conducted one ses—
sion each last season—the Woman’s Club holding
afternoon roller skating for the junior high young-
sters, the Grange for the grade school children, as
before, and the Kiwanis still supervising the high
school group in the evening. It was felt that the
young adults of Plymouth also needed some form
of healthful recreation, so the Business and Pro—
fessional \Vomen’s Club planned an evening of
skating for this group.

Our rules for skaters are very simple. Each child
must have his own skates with fiber or wooden
rollers, and the permit from his parents. Skaters
enter by way of the back door of the Memorial
Building near the dressing rooms, where skates
are put on. There are separate dressing rooms for
the boys and girls, and once skates are on, no child
may leave the Hoor, except to go to the dressing
room. No games of tag or crack-the-whip are
allowed and no fast skating or cutting in and out.
The children appreciate the skating and know that
any disorder will mean the loss of their ticket, so
our disciplinary problems are practically nil.

We have presented three special shows to date.
The first, after three months of skating, was a
very simple affair given for the mothers .of the

212

children who attended regularly. Again we were
fortunate in that we have a young woman who has
participated in several skating shows. She was
very glad to help the youngsters, showing them
how to jump and twirl. The fancy skating helped
all of the children, and made the entire program
more enjoyable.

The second show was given for~the Plymouth
\Voman’s Club in February—at a regular meeting
of the club, with parents and friends of the skaters
also invited. About 650 Spectators attended, with
about ninety skaters of all ages participating. The

'one-hour program consisted of one solo, several

duets and quartettes, but mostly of skating in
large groups for such features as the grand march
and the Paul Jones.

We ended the 1949 season, in April, with our
most ambitious production. Thirty-five costumed
grade school children skated during the first half
of the performance and, later, junior and senior
high school boys and girls had their opportunity.
We had no costumes for this second half since
there were about eighty members in the group,
but the girls wore their own colorful skating skirts
and blouses and the boys were dressed in white.
We practically duplicated the program of our
previous show, using a few more people, putting
on several more specialties, adding spread eagles
and backward skating for variety. After it was
over, the youngsters skated, just for the fun of it,
until ten o’clock. It was all very amateurish, but
the parents loved it. Our expenses were small and
we made a profit of $250, which will be used for
other recreation projects. ,

The effects of the roller skating sessions have
been most gratifying. A teacher told us that one
boy who was definitely anti-social has become
quite normally gregarious since he has been skat-
ing. Parents also have found the activity to be help—
ful for disciplinary purposes. One boy was not al—
lowed to go skating until his mark in deportment
improved; several youngsters learned how to earn
and save money because they wanted to buy shoe
skates. Boys of hfteen and sixteen are gaining ex-
perience in child supervision as they help with the
little boys and girls. ,

In addition, we feel that this successful roller
skating project has convinced the adult population
of Plymouth of the real need for more and better
recreation facilities. Since the Plymouth Woman’s
Club, the Kiwanis Club and the Grange have
worked together so well on the skating program,
we have been organized into a recreation council.
We hope that this is only the beginning of a com—
prehensive recreation program for our town.

RECREATION

PM W 9W 7W

The following ideas, reprinted by special permission from the Program
Bulletin of the Eighth Army Special Services in Japan, are used in

parties for young servicemen and are adaptable for group: of teen-

agers anywhere. Decorations can be made at pre-party gatherings or

by committees or arts and crafts groups.

Hard Times Dance

Decorations and costumes carry out the theme
with old, worn—out clothes, depicting the ragman

or Raggedy Ann ; also, brown wrapping paper and .

paper bags can be fashioned into convin’cing hard
times costumes.

Overturned wood boxes may be used for chairs;
clotheslines may be strung across the room, with
old rags hanging from them; and refreshments
(handouts) may be served from cardboard boxes.

Candlelight Dance

Construct a huge candle for the stage backdrop
—-place music stands with cut-outs of candles on
front of the stage. Have lighted candles on each
table. Candleholders may be made of wood blocks
(cut star shape and painted), with a nail driven
up through the center to hold the candle secure.

Candle relay and candle,tag are novel ways of
carrying out the theme.

Top Hat

This familiar night club theme is a natural for
decorating. Miniature t0p hats for the men can
be made of black construction paper; twine can
be attached to each side and tied under the wearer’s
chin. Orchestra members may also wear them.
Walls may be decorated with huge cut-outs of
black top hats.

Use the cane tag (only men carrying a cane may
cut in) several times during the evening.

Arabian Nights

Decorate walls and stage curtains with life-
size cut-outs of Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves,
Aladdin and his lamp, and large vases in bright
colors. Japanese lanterns also add atmosphere.
Turbans may be fashioned with crepe paper and

SEPTEMBER 1950

given to the guests as they enter the hall.

Some Arabic costumes are nothing more than
plain white sheets thrown around the body, with
one corner over the head and only a small slit for
the eyes. A more elaborate costume may be pro-
vided for the crystal-gazer.

Snow Carnival

Simple, but effective, decorations can create a
snow theme by cutting out fancy snow crystals of
white paper and pinning them on walls or stage
curtains. They may also be pasted on windows.

Another idea is to pour Lux flakes into hot
water, beat to a stiff foam, dab on windows in
small amounts to appear as snowflakes and then
dash on Epsom Salts before the suds dry. These
may also be used around the centerpiece on re-
freshment table.

Zebra Dance

Stripes—black and white—galore and cut-outs
of life-size zebras on the walls, miniature cut-outs
for dance programs, favors and invitations are
wanted here. Use zebra heads, made by painting
head sides on wrapping paper and. stapling to-
gether, for masks. Slip these over the men’s heads,
letting the edges rest on the shoulders. Use several
of these for tag dances.

Rag Doll Reel

Just another take-off on the old square dance, or
it may be planned as a mixed affair—ballroom
and square. Make ribbons for the girls and rag
dolls for the men to use when they wish to cut in
on dancers. For some real fun, give a signal at
which time the men who are caught with rag dolls
will be required to go out onto the floor and dance
with them. A paper doll theme may be used, fea-

turing the popular song.

213

Artists’ Ball

Create an “arty” atmosphere with a skyline
scene, as would appear from a studio window, for
the stage backdrop. Cut-outs of palettes and paint
brushes may be placed on the walls. Make various
colored French berets and bow ties and give one
set to each man as he enters the hall.

Other Suggestions

,lailbird Dance
Firemen’s Frolic
Gay Nineties Ball

Pirates’ Shindig Nautical Tea
Saints and Dance
Sinners Ball Circus Dance

no

Icicle Dance Pink Elephant Cuban Cruise

Jack Frost Dance Dance Florida Fling

King Neptune Sports Dance Gypsy Caravan
Reign Backward Ball Home on the Range

Whirl ’n Swirl Bohemian Ball Indian Pow Wow

Blue Jay Hop Pan-American Land of Make-

Patch Party Ball Believe

Roman Carnival Comic Strip Duffy’s Tavern

Neapolitan Nights Dance All-States Dance

Bartender’s Ball South of the Star Dust Dance
June in January Border Night in Vienna
Jitterbug Snow Ball Blue Danube Ball
Marathon Fan Dance Ground Hog’ 5
Corner Drugstore God and Goddess Debut
Jiving with a Ball Trappers’ Ball
Jukebox Bean Dance Winter Wonder-
Kiddie Costume Cotton Ball land
Dance Coronation Ball Scarecrow’s Frolic
Ho'bo Holiday Western Dance

 

 

Boys and girls, Jaycee monitors, townspeople line
banks in Dayton, at 1949 National Fishing Rodeo.

NON—PROFIT organization of sportsmeanet—
A ter Fishing, Incorporated, at 509 S. Wabash
Avenue, Chicago 5—has, as its purpose, the promo—
tion of fishing among boys and girls of the nation
as an aid in character building and in the teaching
of conservation of natural resources. The organi—
zation cooperates with communities throughout the
country in the initiation of better fishing programs.
All boys and girls under fishing license age are
eligible to compete in the Annual National Fish—
ing Rodeo on the fourth Saturday in August. Why
not get in touch with the organization when plan—
ning your next year’s program?

Any municipality having a body of water—lake,
pond, stream, lagoon or even a swimming pool——
where legal—sized fish can be stocked and caught,
can join the fun. Better Fishing, Incorporated,
reports that adults have reacted as enthusiastically
as have the children and, interestingly enough,

214

that girls and women are outstandingly ardent
followers. This year, the program started with a
ten—week “Adventures in Fishing,” launched in
June. During this period, civic groups arranged
outings under the guidance of experienced anglers.

To date, many community recreation depart—
ments have taken advantage of the help which this
organization stands ready to give,‘free of charge.
Typical of the letters received from them is one
from Charles K. Billings, the recreation director
in Thomasville, Georgia, in which he says: “Every
citizen within, and neighboring, our community
will be looking forward to another annual event
next year. Through your efforts we have pros-
pered much in outdoor principles, conservation and
true sportsmanship. A ‘Youth Fishing Club’ was
organized from the rodeo; civic clubs have taken
an interest and are laying out plans for the future,
for municipal lakes, for restocking all streams
and for launching a general clean—up of all fishing
sites.”

While John J. Murphy, Board of Park Com—
missioners in Boston, writes: “The competition
was keen, the fishermen and those of us operating
the contest all had a good time. . . . It should do
much to teach children good sportsmanship, an
appreciation of the interest taken in their happiness
and welfare all over the country, and should be a
valuable lesson in good citizenship.”

RECREATION

With the exception of aluminum tubing,
all of the parts, including the lenses, come
from scrap, salvage or war surplus materials.

Telescopes for Juniors

* Lots of teen-age boys and girls
would like to make a telescope. Most of them don’t
make them because they don’t know how, and the

cost is too high. Some Cleveland,folks thought °

that something ought to be done about this. The
result was the formation of our Junior Astronomy
Club. (See May, 1949, Sky and Telescope.) In-
terest in telescope-making has so far exceeded our
expectations that we believe that other communi-
ties may be interested in what we have done. ‘

The Cleveland Museum of Natural History felt
that astronomy could be made a museum activity
for schoolboys and girls. Harold T. Clark, presi—
dent of the museum, discussed the subject with
Dr. J. J. Nassau, president of the Cleveland As—
tronomical Society. Together, they talked with
heads of school science departments. The museum
was willing to furnish a clubroom and to equip a
workshop with tools for telescope-making. Mem—
bers of the society who had made their own tele-
scopes would act as instructors. The schools felt
that homemade telescopes would make splendid
science projects for pupils.

Sponsors’ meetings were held in January, 1949.
All persons were so enthusiastic that, in February,
the Junior Astronomy Club was launched, and
over 200 schoolboys and girls attended the organi-

SEPTEMBER 1950

 

Members of beginner’s group in Cleveland’s
Junior Astronomy Club test their ’scopes.

Frank A. Myers

zation meeting. Nearly ninety per cent of them
wanted to make telescopes; without question there
was a widespread desire on the part of each teen—
ager to have his own instrument. But diFferences
in age and skill indicated the need for three differ-
ent groups of telescope-makers in the Junior As-
tronomy Club program.

The grinding and polishing of a mirror for a
reflecting telescope had great appeal for juniors
fourteen years of age and up. Many adults also
wanted to make mirrors. This group standardized
on producing six-inch mirrors with simple wood
and pipe fitting mountings, under the leadership of
James L. Russell, who is an amateur astronomer
and telescope—maker of long standing.

A second group were specialists, composed
mostly of high school and college students and
older persons. Some wanted to assemble binocu-
lars from war—surplus kits; others wanted to use
war-surplus lenses to make a high—powered ter—
restrial or astronomical refractor. Some had

~ ground six-inch mirrors and wanted to make
. larger ones. Others wanted help in the design of

telescope mountings.
Richard P. Tappenden and I have had experi-
ence in Boy Scout and school handcraft work. \Ve

Reprinted from Sky and Telnrope. Cambridge, Massachusetts.

215

knew that many boys and girls under fourteen
years of age wanted to make telescOpes, but that
these youngsters do not usually have the manual
skill or the perseverance to spend fifty hours grind—
ing and polishing a mirror. At these ages they
assemble model airplanes and model trains. There—
fore, for our beginner’s telescope, we set up the
following goals: "

I. The design must be simple, and require
mostly assembly operations.

2. The time required for completion should not
be over three or four afternoons. We wanted com-
pleted telesc0pes before the youngsters became dis-
couraged or lost interest.

3. The manual skill required should be of the
junior high school age level. Tools must be simple,
and as much fabrication as possible done by the
beginner. '

4. Instructions must be simple enough to enable
easy training of instructors to .carry on the pro-
gram as a school activity.

5. The cost of lenses and parts must be under
two dollars.

The museum purchased all of the tools for the
club. Hand tools, costing about seventy—five dol-
lars, haire accommodated a group of thirty tele—
scope-makers at one time. However, these do not
include the drill press, band saw, and a filing and
polishing unit used by both the beginner’s and
mirror-grinding groups. If you can afford enough
tools, you can have everyone do the same Opera-
tion at the same time. But, with thirty to thirty-
five persons in our groups, we did not buy more
than twelve each of even the simple tools because
of the cost. The result was a six-ring circus—a
number of small groups each doing a simple opera-
tion at the same time.

For the first one hundred telescopes, I used my

own metal-cutting band saw at home to cut the
’ tubing to size for rings and spacers. When the
activity started to spread throughout the Cleveland
schools, the museum purchased a metal-cutting
band saw for the club workshop. Three of our
instructors have woodworking tools at home. Two
have lathes and metal-cutting equipment. We had
a lot of fun designing and making various jigs,
fixtures, and “Rube Goldberg” contraptions for
making the telescope parts. These jigs enable the
drill press to perform many operations which
would normally have to be done on a lathe, which
we do not possess.

Two groups at a time make beginner’s tele-
scopes in the club. One class meets Saturday
afternoons; the other, Sunday afternoons. Each
group meets every two weeks, for three meetings.

216

Each meeting starts with about twenty minutes
of movies or a demonstration of optics in the
museum auditorium. We use the Erpi films: “The
Solar System,” “The Earth in Motion,” “The
Moon,” and the Harvard film, “Explosions on the
Sun.” The last fits in with a talk on atomic
energy. Each member is given a copy of the Gra-
phic Time Table of the Heavens, which we secure
gratis from the Maryland Academy of Sciences.

Following the movies, we have about two hours
of telesc0pe—making in the club workroom. The
group from ten to sixteen years of age all finished
their telesc0pes in three meetings. Boys and girls
as young as eight and nine, and adults up to sixty-
five, made telesc0pes in our first four groups.

Seven visual-aid charts are used. Before making
each part, we explain the step—by-step operations,
and the charts save answering a lot’of questions
later. We say, “Ask the chart first—if your ques—
tion is not answered, then ask me.”

The charts make instructing easier for a science
teacher who may not be a good mechanic, and they
are the key to moving the beginner’s telescope from
our club workshop to the schoolroom. Members of
school telescope clubs join our club and meet at
the museum for general lectures on astronomy; but
they make their telescopes in school. The museum
buys the various raw materials. The schools send
picked students who have had machine-shop train-

ing to the club workshop, where they saw the '

required number of rings and spacers on the club
band saw. They can see how our jigs and fixtures
are made so as to make duplicates (or improved
models) for their school telescope groups.

With the idea of helping other cities to make
up their own kit of parts, and of promoting in-
terest in astronomy at teen—age level, the following
literature concerning the beginner’s telescope has
been published by the Cleveland Museum of
Natural History: reprint of “Telescopes for Jun—
iors” article in September 1949 issue of Sky
and Telescope; eight charts, showing step—by-step
how to make each part of our telescope kit; hand
tool instructor’s manual for making the beginner’s
telescope; machine tool instructor’s manual for
making the -beginner’s telescope; packing list,
showing the parts in our kit.

 

“If you hear about a thing
You forget it;
If you see it done
You remember half of it;
If you do it yourself
You remember all of it.”
—.Memj)his Park Commission Bulletin.

RECREATION

 

PEOPLE IN RECREATION . . .

Florida Dwight

Tom King

FLORIDA DWIGHT, pioneer recreation worker,
completed thirty-two years of service with the
Jacksonville Recreation Department when the na-
tion celebrated its 174th year of independence on
the Fourth of July. In recognition of her faithful

and outstanding service, the Jacksonville Recrea-
' tion Board presented her with a bronze plaque of
appreciation.

It was in July, 1918, that she became director of
Oakland Playground, when the first play area for
Negroes opened in Jacksonville. At present, direc-
tor of all Negro activities for the department, her
energy and interest are the same and have never
waned over the span of thirty-two years. One of
her former playground boys, now a school prin-
cipal, has said that her good deeds and charitable
acts have been limited solely by time.

Mrs. Dwight has been eligible to retire for
twelve years, but retiring such a magnetic person-
ality is as impossible as drawing a shade over the
sun. She is‘ one of those rare persons who is com-
pletely self-sacriiicing, constantly doing big and
- little things for others.

An article by C. Parham Johnson of Jackson-
ville, which appeared recently in two Jacksonville
daily papers, had this to say about her work with
youth: “With honor, loyalty and respect, we rise
at this time to pay tribute to a noble woman who
has dedicated her life to being a mother, a wise
counselor and companion to the youth. She has
consecrated her life unselfisth to moulding char-
acter and shaping lives for future service, knowing
how sweet it is to live and serve; how enjoyable

SEPTEMBER 1950

 

it is to bring out of other lives those hidden quali-
ties that many have said do not exist! Mrs.
Dwight, those of us who love youth can really ap-
preciate the fact that all hope is not dead when one
like you is in charge.”

Mrs. Dwight has had many honors bestowed
upon her, but the one she seems to appreciate most
deeply came to her in 1936 when she was chosen
as one of the ten outstanding Negro leaders in
Jacksonville and Duval County. Since then, she
has been listed in “\Vho’s Who for Negro Leaders
of America.” In 1938, she was awarded a certifi-
cate by a Jacksonville daily newspaper for “help-
ful community service,” and just this past year
received an “L” certificate from A. L. Lewis Jun-
ior High School, Jacksonville, Florida, for her .
work in the field of community relations.

She recalls with pleasure receiving the twenty-
year service medal, awarded her by the National
Recreation Association at the twenty-third annual
National Recreation Congress in 1939. Five years
later she received her twenty-five-year service bar
from the association.

Throughout the years, she has been instrumental
in raising funds and securing scholarships that
young men and women of her race might attend
institutions of higher learning. She. herself, studied
at Atlanta University, Atlanta, Georgia, and Ed-
ward VVaters College in Jacksonville.

\Vhen, and if, Mrs. Dwight retires, the Jackson—
ville Recreation Department may “fill her shoes,”
but no one will ever fill the void created in the
hearts of her fellow workers.

217

California Gold Rushl—Neither Mom nor Pop,
luniur nor Sis could complain that their summer
lucked exciting plans for them. The San Leandro
Recreation Department of California celebrated
its centennial summer with activities for all the
family. Its motto was “There’s Gold in Them
Thar Playgrounds” and the gold rush began
on June nineteenth with their opening. Included
among the treasures were baseball, basketball, folk
and square dancing, hiking, music, softball, social
events, table tennis, tennis, volleyball, badminton,
model airplane building and special
festivals, tournaments, days and shows.

A Dream Becomes Real—They’re
discovering in Detroit, Michigan, that
dreams do come true. A half-century
vision of a riverfront civic center will
soon be an actuality. Officials signed
a $600,000 contract with an architec-
tural firm to draw plans for a new $15,000,000

city-county building, with construction scheduled .

to get under way at the end of the summer. At
about the same time, it was expected that work
would start on the new civic auditorium made pos-
sible through a $2,500,000 gift to the city from the
Ford Motor Company and its dealers. The third
of the buildings which will make up the major part
of the riverfront project is the eight-story $5,700,-
000 Veterans’ Memorial Building to be put into
operation in the next few months. The planners
also envision new state and federal office buildings
in the center, but these and other ideas are for the
more distant future.

Meanwhile, Detroiters are rejoicing that after
many false starts—civic center proponents were
once called “dreamers of the impossible”——the com-
pleted “living center” will mean the realization of
.one of the most ambitious civic improvements in
the city’s history.

Magic World of Puppetry—The Marionette
Theatre of the New York Department of Parks
again proved to be one of the most popular attrac—
tions of its recreation program this year. Children
in every section of the five boroughs were given
the opportunity of watching “The Shoemaker and
the Elves” come alive.

The. show was transported for I 12 performances,
throughout the summer, in a specially-constructed
motor truck housing the stage, sound and lighting
equipment. It was just a decade ago that the De-
partment of Parks had formed a marionette troupe
to tour its parks and playgrounds, enchanting the
youngsters of all ages.

218

Ports of Recreation—Merchant seamen will now
have more recreation ports of their own to sail to
in leisure hours. Just recently, a ceremony was
held in Brooklyn, New York, to dedicate the new
International Seamen’s Recreation Field, set aside
by city officials for the exclusive use of merchant
seamen of all nations. In June, the United Sea-
men’s Service reported its plans for a service cen-
ter for American seamen in Naples, Italy, adding
it to the list of Pacific, South American and Eu-
ropean ports where the seamen can find recreation,

 

refreshments, lodgings and personal services. Later
on, if a suitable site can be determined, a center
will also be available on the island of Okinawa.

Bing Visits; Recreation Benefits—Front Royal,
Virginia, will probably be talking about Bing
Crosby Day of 1950 for many a year to come. Not
only was it a great day because of the sixty-seven-
unit parade, twelve spirited bands and delightful
fioats which decorated the main street, but on hand
for the affair was Bing Crosby himself. The
crooner was present to attend the world premiere of
his latest motion picture, seats for which were sold
at auction at a minimum bid of five dollars each.
Proceeds went to the town’s recreation association,
along with the sum of ,money raised from the com-
munity square dance staged by the T.W.U.A.
Local 371. At the end of the day, the recreation
association was richer by $15,000, of which Bing
had contributed $3, 595.

Bing Crosby’s interest in Front Royal and its
recreation program began about two years ago
when he came to the town to visit an old friend.
Within an hour, the news had spread that he would
address a recreation association rally. The affair
was a huge success. The association, which had
been struggling for over'a year to establish recrea-
tion facilities for the community, was a going or-
ganization from that night on. In-between the
Crosby visits, the association obtained a large park
area, laid out a diamond and gridiron, installed
lights, arranged for the high school football team
to stage its first night games, promoted a baseball
team, sponsored community-wide softball leagues,
carried through with its playground schedule and
engaged a director of recreation!

RECREATION

 
  
 
  

m3 53“" 0 Recreation for members of
" labor unions is not new, but
very interesting changes in un—
ion recreation trends are oc—
curring on both national and local levels. For
some years, the American Federation of Labor and
other national labor affiliates, and in later years, the
newer Congress for Industrial Organization na-
tional labor affiliates, have maintained certain pol-
icies relating to recreation.

The methods of promoting and organizing a rec-
reation program vary slightly among the different
national unions, but, in general, they follow much
the same pattern. The International Ladies Gar—
ment Workers Union (AFL), the Amalgamated
Garment Workers Union (CIO), and the United
TeXtile Workers (CIO), for instance, conduct rec-
reation activities as a part of their education pro-
' gram. Each local union is assisted and encouraged
to organize its own recreation committee and con—
duct its own program, calling upon the education
director of the national organization for advice and
assistance.

The International UAW-CIO has a similar pol-
icy, except that a full-time recreation director not
only gives assistance in the conducting of local rec-
reation activities, but also organizes, promotes and
conducts national or regional inter-local union
tournaments and contests. This director, Miss
Olga Madar, maintains an oflice in the Interna—
tional UAW—CIO ReCreation Department, Detroit,
Michigan. Training institutes are held during the
summer at the UAW camp on the shores of Lake
Huron, and two annual recreation conferences for
ounion recreation leaders and committee men and
women have been conducted during the winter

SEPTEMBER 1950

Recreation in LABOR UNIONS

C. E. Brewer

season. A monthly bulletin, “The Recreation
Round—up,” containing news of activities in local
unions, suggestions for activities and other mate—
rial, is published. Some of the reasons given for
the organization of the International UA\V—CIO

Recreation Department are :1

“I. To provide recreation for all UA\V members and
their families.

2. To unite the union through the common understand-
ing inherent in leisure-time activities.

3. To provide leadership training opportunities to union
rank and file members through recreational organization.

4. To link the union to the community through the use
of community facilities, and through cooperation with
community recreation leaders.

5. To provide each member and his family with the
benefits of recreational leadership for a minimum cost to
the worker.

6. To work toward eventual labor—marmgcment recre-
ation programs for all workers in every industry.” (See
article on page l95.—Ed.)

1 “Reel-cation in a Labor Setting," by Ruth March. published by
UA\V-CIO Recreation Department.

"The present mechanized age and its in-
creased leisure time demand comprehensive
planning for recreation. . . . Recreation facili—
ties, public and private, should be planned and
distributed on neighborhood, district, regional,
state and nationwide basis to provide maximum
recreational opportunities for all age groups

without discrimination. . . . Adequate staffs of
qualified personnel should be employed by each
agency organization or group responsible for
recreation services so as to get maximum use
of existing facilities. . . ." Quoted from resolu-
tion unanimously adopted at AFL Convention,
St. Paul, October 1949.

 

219

The Wisconsin State AFL Council employs a
worker who spends most of his time in promoting
and helping the AFL local unions in \Visconsin
to organize their recreation activities. Some—such
as I'A\\-' Local #600 (Detroit) and UAW Local
#12 (Toledo)-—employ full—time recreation direc-
tors to direct these activities.

Plan of Administration in Local U "ions—jThe
plan of administration is very simple. A local rec-
reation committee chairman is appointed by the
president of the local union or is elected by the
membership. He, in turn, appoints the members
of his committee, who receive no compensation for
this work. If the union membership is composed
of more than one shop or factory in the district, a
member is appointed from each. Another method
is to appoint committees for various activities, with
the chairman of each serving on the local’s recre-
ation committee. A combination of the two meth-
ods is generally the most successful as it serves to
unify the recreation program.

Few local unions have recreation buildings or
facilities; and local recreation committees are urged
to work with private and public recreation agen-
cies in the community, and to use community rec-
reation facilities available to the public. However,
in isolated instances, local unions have purchased
camps, buildings and recreation areas. The Na-
tional CIO owns some recreation facilities which
may be used by its affiliated unions. Local union

halls occasionally provide space for certain activi-
ties.

Program of Activities—Activities are determined
by the quality of available leadership, the type and
size of facility used, budget limitations, and the
number of people who must be served over a wide
area. The variety is the same as that included in
any program of public recreation, including games,
sports, arts, crafts, activities of educational and
cultural nature, hobbies and others. In a recent
survey,2 analyzing the programs of fifteen local
unions in a midwestern city, the smallest number
of activities recorded was one (baseball) while, at
the other extreme, thirty—four different activities
in one union were reported. On a national level,
the same survey states: “The recreation depart—
ment works closely with the education department
of the UAW-CIO. Sometimes, joint activities are
sponsored, such as sewing classes, and . . . dra—
matic classes. . . . The UAW Health Institute

cooperates in health and charm classes and in med—
ical examinations for athletes.”

3 "Recreation—A Summary of Recreation Pro ram f th UAW-
CIO.” published by UAW-C10 Recreation Depat'frnent.0 e

220

Financing—One of the handicaps to a local union 1

recreation program is the limited budget made
available to the recreation committee. According
to the summary of the recreation program of the
UAW-CIO,2 “The Constitution provides that one-
half cent” (of the dues of a union member) “shall
go to finance the International Recreation Depart-
ment which, in turn, allots one—half cent of the
revenue of the seventeen UAW regions, under
stipulations made by the executive board. One—
half cent of the dues goes to the treasury of the
local union recreation committee into which the dues
are paid. The one-half cent is the minimum amount
for recreation. Locals enjoy complete autonomy in
setting the maximum for the appropriation.” This
is usually put into practice by a per capita assess-
ment at dances, parties, games and other events
for which admission is charged. However, many
unions have extreme difficulty in securing funds to
conduct an adequate 'recreation program for mem—
bers.

A very unusual and unique example of coopera-
tion between AFL and CIO Labor Councils is the
plan in Muskegon, Michigan, whereby the mem—
bers Fof both annually unite to raise approximately
$10,000 needed to finance a day camp. The Labor
Council cooperates with the local recreation de-
partment which conducts the day camp. This is
open to any child in Muskegon, with the entire ex—
pense borne by the Joint Labor Counqils.

A lack of rapid growth in the number of local
union recreation programs may be accounted for
by the handicaps confronting the local’s recreation
committee. Among these are: inadequate budget;
lack of trained and experienced leaders; lack of
recreation areas and facilities; lack of interpreta-
tion to members of the purpose of recreation; the
fact that, in some cases, the members served are so
scattered that the {program would be required to
include several different shops not having a com-
mon interest. Some of these handicaps apply also
to company employee recreation programs. In
spite of them,.however, some local unions have de-
veloped a good range of recreation activities.

The International UAW-CIO Recreation De—
partment is conducting summer institutes. The
International Recreation Director spends a great
deal of her time at workshops and conferences. Ex—
perienced persons are secured to give talks on rec-
reation, and experts are used to lead groups in spe—
cific skills. Summer institutes have been held for
union leadership regularly in Canada, California,
Missouri, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, North Car-
olina and in two eastern states. Specific training

RECREATION

\

in recreation leadership has been arranged at most
of the institutes for at least one week of a session.

Area UAVV-CIO Recreation Councils are being
organized in some sections of the country. These
are composed of a representative from each local
union, and one from each activity as selected by
the council. Only the local union representative
may vote. The purpose of the Detroit Area UAW-
CIO Council is outlined in its bylaws: “To plan
and establish a recreation program, according to
'the UAW-CIO policy; to promote greater recre-
ation participation by the local unions; to plan
diversified programs for everyone; to bring about
coordination between the local recreation prOgram
and the total union program; and to establish and
conduct recreation training institutes.“

The Detroit Area Council meets once a month
with the UAVV-CIO Recreation Director. It or—
ganizes and assists in the conduct of all area-wide
classes, events, leagues, tournaments, competition
events in baseball, softball, basketball, bowling and
of an annual ice skating meet. Activities recently
coordinated are archery, golf, horseshoe pitching,
rifle and other shooting meets, and table tennis.

Miss March’s study1 made recommendations for
the improvement of local union recreation pro-
grams. Some of these would apply equally well
to company recreation activities for employees.
Several may be summarized as follows:

Better records and statistics on recreation pro-
grams should be kept. Statistics can be used by
the recreation director to justify his own job, and
to present graphically the need for adequate bud-
get to finance the program. Record—keeping takes
time; but time spent in keeping essential records is
worthwhile.

The purpose of the recreation program is not
preperly interpreted to the members. The lack of
prOper interpretation results in lack of participa-
tion, and sometimes creates the impression that
there is no interest in the program offered. It may
raise the question, by appropriating authorities, of
why money should be granted for the recreation
program.

The recreation leader often fails to cooperate
with and secure public and private agency support
in obtaining permission to use available community
facilities. Many public and private agency boards
or directors will gladly grant permission to use
their facilities during times consistent with the
agency’s own program.

(See “Recreation in the Industrial Plant,” on
Page 195-)

SEPTEMBER 1950

With the Stars . . .

With the stars of sports, modern fea-
tures of construCtion in the equip-
ment they use are of the utmost im-
portance. That’s why so many of
them use and recommend Wilson.

The famous Wilson Advisory Staff,
whose members help design, test
and use Wilson equipment is anOther
reason why so many outstanding
sports stars prefer Wilson. Golf
champions Sam Snead, Cary Mid-
dlecoff, Lloyd Mangrum, Gene Sara-
zen, Patty Berg and Babe Didrikson
—tennis champions Jack Kramer,
Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and Alice
Marble—diamond Stars Ted Wil-
liams and Bob Feller— gridiron head-
liners Johnny Lujack, Charlie Trippi
and Paul Christman are among the
stars who make up this great staff of
experts. Pldy tbe equipment of c/Jam-
pions—Wilson—and you can be sure
you’re playing equipment that can-
not be surpassed.

WllSON SPORTING GOODS CO... INC.

Branch office: In New Yart. San Francisco
and o'hor principal citing
(A subsidiary of Wuson & Co. Inc.)

 will/3011

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

 

3'11

 

Performers are pleased with of-
ficienl services of Mrs. Woollen.

UT CALIFORNIA WAY, a city recreation depart—
0 ment is successfully providing a loan cos-
tume service, not only for its own dramatic pro-
grams, but also for public and private agencies
sponsoring non-profit entertainment. In Oakland,
fhe playgrounds, community centers, the “Y’s,”
little theater groups, Scouts, churches, schools and

civic organizations are benefiting from this service.

Having the use of authentic costumes is indeed a
helpful project, sometimes making possible the
presentation of programs which otherwise would
be out of the question. Of the 10,000 costumes of
the recreation department, more than 7,000 go out
on loan during each year.

This service is approximately twenty-five years
old—almost as old as the department itself. It
dates back to the civic Christmas pageants of the
’20’s, when crepe paper was used to outfit the
children_ participating. As crepe paper costumes
are impractical for re—use, the next material tried
was paper cambric. A few years later sateen was
put into use-but soon gave way to colorfast
cottons.

When word first got around that the Oakland
Recreation Department had thousands of costumes
which could be rented (the small rental fee barely
covers the laundry cost), inquiries came from all

 

Florence Birk/aeacl act: a: publicity reprerentatice of
the Oakland Recreation Department in California.

222

mam 5%

Florence Birkhead

directions. At present, the call for peasant dresses
is high because of the popularity of folk dancing.
Robin Hood’s, biblical dress, knight’s armor, flower
dresses, choral robes, period clothes, are but a few
of those in the repeat bracket. May festivals re-
quire the loan of a few thousand costumes complete
with matching streamers and poles. During the
last holiday season, the department had twenty-
live Santa’s in stock and, during the rush weeks,
each was used as often. as three to four times a day!

In addition to the costumes on loan, more than
1,600 special garments are held in the cases for one
use only—for the annual Christmas pageant “Light

.of the World,” sponsored by the recreation depart-

ment. This features 1,600 children from the city

.schools in a two-hour festival. Snowmen, ever-

greens, ballet numbers, toys from Santa’s wonder-
ful pack, skaters, pierrots and pierrettes, elves,
reindeer, 400 fairies all under six years of age,
provide a few of the scenes which have drawn
national attention to this event.

A year ago, the costume section was moved from
its home in the old Moss residence to spacious
quarters in the North Oakland Recreation Depart-
ment. Here, a thirty-by—lifty—foot room houses
row upon row of shoulder high costume bins which
are on wheels with curtained fronts. These replace
the varied-size boxes and shelves used in years
past. The especially—designed wooden wardrobes
can be readily wheeled upon a truck bed and trans-

RECREATION

ported to locations throughout the city for the
department’s activities. This permits the freshly
laundered and pressed garments to be taken off
their hangers unwrinkled.

A huge floor-to-ceiling gold-framed mirror, from
the Moss home, is placed in the lounge and is a
source of delight to the designer and staff fitters.

Adjoining the costume room is the laundry,
equipped with an automatic washer and ironer,
and the sewing room, containing three electric
sewing machines. A lounge and reception room
and the director’s ofiice complete the physical lay-
out of the costume department.

Delivery service, of course, is not feasible, and
groups requesting costumes must call for and re-
turn garments within a three-day period.

The genius behind this admirable enterprise is
Mrs. Hettie Woollen—head costumer—who, at a
moment’s notice, can put her hands on just the
costumes requested. Sizes are not marked on the
bins or garments, but “knowing every stitch and
seam in every garment,” she can readily tell its
size by looking at it or by feeling its weight. Each
garment that has been used is laundered and
pressed upon its return, put upon a hanger and
placed in its regular stall.

During her eight years with the department, Mrs.
Woollen has designed, dyed, sewed, cleaned, reno-
vated and catalogued just about every costume.
Within a few minutes after verifying the source of
a request for—say a dozen national dresses;
they are on the packing table! Serving with Mrs.
Woollen are Mrs. Beatrice Druce, a worker in the
department for the past two decades who is the
costumer for the Christmas pageant, Miss Claire
Howard and Mrs. Catherine Jones.

The four staff members are zealous workers,
ever on the look-out for garments needing repair
or a dye dip. They can quickly renovate faded
skirts into drum corps capes or add a tarlatan
overskirt and rufHe to make last year’s ballet skirt
look like new. Working as a team, they look to
Mrs. Thelma Buchanan, supervisor, and to Robert
\V. Crawford, superintendent of recreation, for
suggestions and direction.

The multitude of thank you notes from organiza-
tions availing themselves of this splendid service
attests to its merits and worthwhileness.

 

“As a leisure-time educational program, drama
necessitates the cooperative effort of many differ-
ent craftsmen. Perhaps in no other group activity
is it more essential that such a large number of
individual skills be blended into one harmonious
whole . . .”—PV. F. Christopher.

SEPTEMBER 1950

       
   
   
 
   
  
    
 
 
 
   

olmoxo Pitching

Horseshoe

ACCESSORIES

THE MOST COMPLETE LINE

Ready Now for
Vacation Needs

  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  

Diamond Offlciol Stoke Hald-
ers ond Diamond Court Boxes
ore eosy to instoll ond stay
put when they are once in
the ground. Stand up under
constant use. Diamond Pitch-
ing Horseshoes are sold by
most sporting goods deol-
ers throughout the country.

Stokes and
Ready-Made Conrts

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4616 GRAND AVENUE DULUTH, MINN.

In new Gem of sr " -

s tie? Serf- ‘fuavn A- m _- k n...
In“ and Satin” '- 'n-I‘h
Ca IQ,“ erd HIqu NI .. . 1r.
niuoe.’ and Indusll a act-n n n
MoeGngo G: u- "- ‘--- h
Eq'llmt'“ is 'ICll'riI“ .: w-
merl of qua!» e-a -- I. s A,
pedal-mar :9

"OW?

Recreation

Home Recreation via Television

The Cleveland Recreation Department is pro-
moting home recreation in arts and crafts by con-
ducting two television programs per week. At each
broadcast, :1 crafts worker from l'tlie’ndepartment
actually makes articles, explaining each step in the
process. They state that excellent results have been
obtained through this visual help.

Articles on Music

\\'ith the June 1950 issue, Home and Garden
inaugurated a series of articles on music—as a”
part of, good living. These will be continued?
throughout the year. Among the first to appear in
that issue were: “The State of Jazz,” by Alec
\Vilder, composer; “Be Kind to Your Piano,” by
Gyorgy Sandor, the Hungarian-born pianist; and
"The Case of Music on the School Curriculum,”
by Elva R. Ileylmun, chairman of music for the
National Congress of Parents and Children.

Good Public Relations Stunt

The recreation department in Leavenworth, Kan-
sas, started a “championship club” early this year.
Everyone, young or old, who Wins any kind of
championship—whether it is in jackstraws, the
country club golf tournament, a school speech, or
music contest—no matter what, receives a printed
certificate. There are no dues or obligations of
membership, but a dinner is given at the end of the
year for all the Leavenworth champions of that
year. It is fun; it gives recognition; and it is ex-
cellent and inexpensive public relations for the rec—
reation department.

Bed-pinaf ore

Keeping a child quiet and contented in bed dur—
ing any period of convalescence is not an easy job.
This is especially difficult with a young child be-
tween the ages of four and seven, who does not
care to listen to the radio for hours and is unable
to read for entertainment. Crayons, watercolors

or clay modeling appeal to children of this age,
and offer unlimited fun and creative play. Un-

fortunately, however, painting and modeling often

224

Suggestion

Box

 

lead to a mess, after which pajamas, as well as
blankets, have to be changed. Helen Klemm,
author of “Want a Pet?” published in the April
issue of RECREATION, has been confronted with this
problem frequently. Instead of constantly admon—
ishing the child to be careful, she has created a
bed-pinafore which gives over-all protection. Near
the narrow end of a piece of oilcloth or clear plas-
tic material thirty-six inches wide and two yards
long, she cuts a round opening large enough to slip
over the child’s head. Farther down, and on each
side, holes are cut for the arms. The rest of the
pinafore covers the blanket. When soiled, it is
easily cleaned with soap and warm water and is
ready for another busy day.

Floors for Square Dancing

Floor preparation for square dancing, recom-
mended by Red Henderson of Spokane, Washing-
ton, calls for one gallon of white corn meal. Pour
three ounces of Cedar San or O’Cedar 'Polish over
this, and let set for twenty—four hours. Then spread
lightly over the floor. It does not make the sur-
face slippery and the floor may be used for basket-
ball right after the dance.

A Dividend Check

A recent annual report of the Playground
and Recreation Association of Wyoming Valley
(VVilkes—Barre), Pennsylvania, was presented on
one large sheet of paper—seventeen inches by
twenty inches—which was folded to measure eight-
and—one-half inches by three-and-three-f0urths
inches. The front of the fold represented a divi-
dend check, made out in handwriting: To—The
People of \Vyoming Valley; For—A Year of
Human Happiness; and it was signed by the asso—
ciation. A note on the back, from the president of
the association, said in part: “Sending you this an-
nual stockholders’ report gives me a great deal of
pleasure, for I’m reporting a very rich return on
the stockholders’ investment. Your dividend won’t
mean much on a ledger sheet, but you’ll find it has
strange powers to warm the human heart.” The
report, itself, was given in the form of an inter-
esting picture story.

RECREATION

 

for Baseball and Softball

SEE US AT THE NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS IN CLEVELAND IN OCTOBER

State Teamwork for RECREATIIJN

Ruth E. Peeler

NE OF THE greatest discoveries in state recre-
O ation is how to make the best use of existing
agencies and resources. This has been effectively
brought about in the state of Washington by the
Governor’s Inter-Agency Committee, organized in
the early part of 1949. Once a month the state de-
partments meet to discuss ways and means to
further state recreation. The governor acts as
chairman of the group. The results have been
gratifying and we predict that the state of Wash-
ington’s Inter-Agency Committee will be a per-
manent one, serving as a pattern for future ad-
ministrations.

The first step taken by the committee was an
inventory of existing natural resources. Each de-
partment of state government brought in a detailed
report of its function in utilizing these_resources.
The game, hsh, forest, highway, parks and recrea-
tion, library, education, social welfare and conserva-
tion agencies were amazed to discover how well
they could cooperate. The Association of Wash-
ington Cities, the Association of County Commis-
sioners and the State Advertising Commission are
also represented on the committee.

One of the most effective results that has been
attained from this teamwork is the joining of forces
of the State Department of Education and the
State Parks and Recreation Commission—one hav-
ing responsibility for the education of thousands of
children, and the other having custody of thousands
of acres of public lands suitable for recreation.

The state of Michigan sets a fine example of
using, in full force, all state departments. It is in
this state that the Department of Education and
the Department of Conservation joined hands, re-
alizing that neither department should tackle the
problem alone. The state parks in Michigan are
under the Department of Conservation. In 1946
they joined in a camping and outdoor education
project to discover how education in the out-of-
doors may be brought about and how it would in-
volve the use of the many natural resources and

 

Rut}; Peeler i: vice—chairman of the Warbington
State Park: and Recreation C ommiuz'on, Olympia.

226

facilities already available. There were joint meet—
ings of staff, membership on committees, joint
participation in conferences, meetings in communi-
ties, and a coordination of field activities that pro-
duced amazing results. Materials and publications
were done together. In many instances, staff
members from the two departments would travel
together in the same car, giving field services to
communities and schools that were interested in
deveIOping camping, outdoor education and com-
munity recreation programs. Many new day camp-
ing programs were established on state lands.
School camping programs were initiated in state
parks and a wide variety of recreation activities
were carried out in many communities.

In the state of Washington we have been suc-
cessful this" year, in a great measure, in building
such cooperation between these two state depart-
ments. They have been consulting on each com-
munity problem. Advisory committees that func-
tion throughout the state have been approved by
both departments ; and, in many instances, both de—
partments have joined in consultant service, espe-
cially where school facilities were put to use for
recreation programs. The State Advisory Council
on Camping is made up of all organizations in the
state interested in better camping standards and
facilities. Meetings have been attended regularly
by council members and much good has been ac-
complished. We have increased camping in our
state park camps 300% and expect another large
increase this year. Day camping programs in parks
are also being planned and encouraged. Adequate
camping facilities on state land are our aim, to
meet the need of the entire state. It is a long range
plan—anticipating at least ten camps within the
state parks.

Recreation planning for all ages is big business.
In Washington, over two million dollars were levied
and used for recreation leadership and supplies,
this not including the tremendous amount appro-
priated for capital outlay. We have helped sixty-
seven communities with their problems; we have
assembled information on two hundred and thirty-
seven communities, which will be compiled and

RECREATioN

printed. This new department of state government
has grown so rapidly that we are compelled to put
on an additional consultant, thus providing con-

   

sultant service for each section of the state. The Everything Required by
T . . . . .
l\atlonal Recreation Association has. pioneered the BEGINNERS . o .
way. It has given to our state a serv1ce that cannot
be measured in terms of dollars and cents; and it ADVANCED HOBBY'STS ° ° '
is still assisting our consultants in helping com- PROFESSIONAL CRAFTSMEN

munities to get the most for each dollar expended.

Crafts Instructors who depend upon Larson Leather-
craft headquarters for supplies. tools and instruc-
tion manuals have learned by experience that they

have solved their three big problems of Vanety.
Quality and Delivery.

Our stock of leather-craft kits. tools. supplies. mod-

 

RE  N  R erate priced tooling leather and top quality cal!-
skins is the most complete in America. ranging from
beginners' kits of ready-cut projects requiring no

, } 6", experience or tools. to materials and equipment to

 meet the needs of the most exacting advanced

hobbyist and profession craftsman. We handle only

, , the best quality. and make prompt shipments. in
MM” 6 most cases the same day your order is received.

Send today for FREE 24—page illustrated catalog of

is bum, b materials and instructions for making Link Belts.

Y Moccasins. Billfolds. Camp Purses. Comb Cases. Key

3!: Cases. Riding Crops, Gloves. Toy Animals and other

items. Complete line of supplies and tools included.

erte Today far Free Catalog

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

DEPARTMENT 207

for catalag, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25th St.
Los Angeles 11, Calif.

*Reg. U. 3. Pat. OH.

   

820 So. Tripp Ave., Chicago 24, Ill.

 

 
  
  
 
 
   

  
 

  
 
  

A‘SOUND INVESTMENT IN
CHILD SAFETY AND HEALTH

Children's desire for exercise
is happily fulfilled with Burke-
Built Playground Equipment.
Scientifically designed to pro-
vide years of safe, healthful
exercise at low cost main-
tenance.

The BURKE-BUILT line includes:
Climbing Structures, Swings,
Slides, See-Saws, Merry-Go-
Rounds. Turning Bars. Horizon- BURKE-BUILT PLAYGROUND EQUIP-

lal Ladders and many other MENT has the approval of park and
playground ofl’icials from coast to

 M

H'LETIC

  
 

EQUIPM’E

irst Choice
for

Every Sport!

items. .
t. Ch th safest and most
“M” Depl- Y ’0' ‘GW'OQ- :ESHamicatlo-s—eCh2059 BURKE-BUILT Avallable
Pl d Equipment. Burke en- .
 J‘ E'  co' gigzglfuclill help plan your play 1'th Leadlng
POND DU LAC, WIS. areas without obligation.

Athletic Goods

YOU ARE INVITED Distributors

to visit the exhibit of BURKE-
BUILT Playgraund Equipment

at the

NATIONAL
RECREATION CONGRESS
IN CLEVELAND

OCTOBER 2nd to 6th

 o o O

Phi-v.5 m 

" ' ' m: fluff? re me turns .1'
"‘9- MANUIACIUIIHO concern 0 st. coats 3 no.

sit-:9
. an mg
1
.‘H

     

'3‘)"

hdd’

SEPTEMBER 1950

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

American City, February 1950 _
Mount Lebanon Goes on the Bandwagon, Dav1d D.

Rowlands. _
Fairdale Builds a “Playtoriuni.” _
Lighted Sports Field for QuarryVille’s 1,300, John

\\'. Mason.

Parks and Recreation, February 1950
I Am a Park Site, A. P. Greensfelder.
The Maintenance Mart.

Park Maintenance, February 1950 I
Ideal Pool Is T-Shaped and Filter-Equipped, Ralph

B. Bryan. I ' . .
Money Savers 1n Pool Operation and Maintenance,

\Villiam Berens.

Beach and Pool, February 1950

Safety in Diving, J. H. Hill. _
Swimming Pool Vacuum Cleaners, A. E. Stem.

Safety Education, March 1950
Statistically Speaking, Charles E. Forsythe.
Hiking and Climbing, Safety Education Data Sheet,

Number Forty-three.

Summary Report of the Milwaukee Survey. Milwau—
kee County Survey of Social Welfare and Health
Services, Inc., 610 North Jackson Street, Milwaukee

2, Wisconsin. $1.50.

Youth Centers and Councils. The California Youth
Authority, Sacramento, California. Free.

The Fourth National Conference on Citizenship. R_e-
port. National Education Association, 1201 Six-

teenth Street, NW, Washington 6, D. C. $.50.

Safety Education in the Secondary School. National
Safety Council, 20 North Wacker Drive, Chicago 6,

Illinois. '

Promenade A11, Janet E. Tobitt. A compilation of
song-dances. Janet E. Tobitt, 228 East 43rd Street,

New York 17. $.40.

Writing the One—Act Religious Play, Fred Eastman.
Friendship Press, New York. $.50.

Answering Children’s Questions, C. W. Hunnicutt.
Bureau of Publications, Teachers’ College, Colum—
bia University, New York. $.60.

Making the Grade As Dad, Walter and Edith Neisser.
Public Affairs Pamphlet Number 157. Public Affairs
Committee, Incorporated, 22 East 38th Street, New
York 16. $.20.

Leisure Use Attitudes. Report Number Four. Decem-
ber 1949. Washington Public Opinion Laboratory,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.

Parks and Recreation, March 1950
Ten Years’ Growth in a Year, George Hjelte.
Recreation Leadership, Stephen H. Mahoney.
“Junior Junction”—Mecca for Oshkosh Teen-agers,
R. C. Miller.
The Maintenance Mart.

Research Quarterly, March 1950
National Survey of Physical Education and Sports
Insurance Plans, Donald Guenther.

Camping Magazine, March 1950‘
The Value of Wilderness to Youth, Wes H. Klus-

man.
Bark Crafts, Ellsworth Jaeger.
Movies to Help You Train Your Staff, Reynold E.

Carlson and Ralph E. Ash.

Movies to Broaden Campers’ Knowledge, J. R.
Bingham.

Beach and Pool, March 1950

VVgter Games Develop Skill and Confidence, Mary
rice.

Public Relations in Your Community, Robert
Guenther.

Swimming Pool Vacuum Cleaners, A. E. Stein.

228

Park Maintenance, March 1950
Before Too Late—Detroit Area Got Its Needed
Parks, P. K. M’Wethy.
New Haven Finds Hard-Surfaced Playgrounds Bet-
ter Attended, Cheaply Maintained, Harold V.
Doheny.

American City, March 1950
A Stadium for All Municipal Functions, Guy Elliott.
Some Helpful Books and Pamphlets in Community
Planning and Development.

Clearwater Rebuilds Its Beaches, William L. Lee.
Fort Wayne’s New Open Air Theater.
War Memorial a Real Asset, R. L. Stultz.

Journal of Physical Education, March-April 1950
A New Life for the Handicapped, Catherine Worth-
ingham.

Scholastic Coach, April 1950
Organization for Large Meets, M. S. Kelliker.
The Case for School Boxing, I. Edward Gersh.

The Camp Fire Girl, April 1950
A Family Funaree, Margaret E. Mulac.

Creative Handcraft Goes A-Camping, Georga E.
Mills.

Camping Magazine, April 1950
Why Camping Is Important to Today’s Children,
Dr. Julian Smith.

Good Counselors Are Your Keystones.

Park Maintenance, April 1950
Scientific Park Has Different Problems of Care,
Ralph B. Bryan.
Park Cleanliness, Don A. Piorviance.

Journal of the American Association for Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, April 1950
Contributions of Physical Education to Democratic

Citizenship, Rosalina Cassidy.
The Babe Ruth Sportsmanship Program, Carl A.
Troester.

How We Do It.

American City, April 1950
Something New in Playgrounds, Helena Braddock
Lemp.
Fort Lauderd'ale’s Marina Includes Recreation
Center, Carlton M. Roberts. 9
A Park and Playground Built with Sanitary Fill,
Louis H. Moehr.

Parks and Recreation, April 1950

Rifle Range Is Built in a Peoria Park, Rhodell E.
Owens.

Park Service Building for City of Lansing, Clark
R. Ackley.

Grand Forks Golf Survey.

A Modern Sports Center for Minneapolis, Charles
E. Doell.

Tennis Has Value That Serves People Best, Harold
L. Davenport.

Boston Retreats from Sea for Safe Bathing, John
E. White.

The Maintenance Mart.

Progressive Farmer, April 1950
Open Your Gym Doors, Earline Gandy.

Beach and Pool, April 1950
Swim Your Way to Health, George Creighton.

Renovating a Recirculating System, E. W. Conzel-
man.

Spring Check—Up Time.

A Long Range Swimming Plan, Kenneth P. An-
derson.

The Modern Swimming Pool—A Symposium.

Junior League Magazine, May 1950
We Can Work Wonders.
Camping—City Style.
American City, May 1950
Community Cooperation in Leonia, New Jersey,

Makes Indoor Recreation Program Possible,
George D. Butler.

Portland’s 5,400-Acre Park Takes Shape, Juanita
Wolfe Paddack.

Municipal Gardens and Flowers—Part I, Erna
Mathys.

RECREATION

Porter Basketball Backstops are

'3 .j.‘ t. ’
 W/
_' '  l  o

1‘.

 

PORTER NO. 212-WS window span type of backstop is an
ingenious adaptation used where building truss construction
will not permit installation of a suspended-and-braced type
of backstop.

To be completely satisfactory and safe, basket-
ball backstops must be planned and designed
by people with specialized engineering know-
how. Building conditions vary widely, and every
backstop installation varies accordingly.

"0- 237's BANK W5"! _ Porter engineers are equal to any backstop
No' 2'93 69M? and Ne,   problem, no matter how Specialized. They can
' draw upon a vast storehouse of knowledge
gained through several generations of serving
the nation’s leading schools, universities, clubs
and stadiums.

Why don’t you let Porter engineers advise and
help you, without cost or obligation, of course?
Usually, stock models from Porter’s complete line
can meet your exact requirements, and save you

, money. If your building is in the drawing board
place worn, out-dated rectangular banks With the new . . .
all-steel official Porter fan-shaped bank. Formed from “099: 'l '5 “"59 l° 'c‘lk 9b°”‘ P°Ck5i°P5 WWI °"d
a single sheet of steel to a flawlessly smaoth face with Cit/Old PTOblemS and disappomlmenls later-

a deep-rolled periphery, and scientifically braced for     

permanent, rigid service.

PORTER CAN SUPPLY YOUR EVERY BACKSTOP AND GYM EQUIPMENT NEED £“KS “\U I

THE L E‘. CORPORATION
OTTAWA. llllNOlS

 

FREE CATALOG GlADlY SENT. Now is the time to re-

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOl EQUIPMENT

 

, " mo
Excluswe MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYMT swim“

Reg. L'. 5. Pat. OH.

 

SEPTEMBER 1950 3.‘

Books Received

 

Ask-Me Book of Best-Loved Fairy Tales, The, Mary
\Yintrrs. llart Publishing Company, New 'i ork.
$1.35.

Baseball's Greatest Hitters, Tom Meany. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

Basic Swimming, Robert Kipliutli and Harry M. Burke.
Yale University Press, New Haven. $3.00.

Bedroom Furniture, Period and Modern, V.  Broad-
bent. The Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee.

$4.00.

Beginning Synchronized Swimming, Betty Spears.
Burgess Publishing Company, Minneapolis. $2.00.

Bike-Ways, Godfrey Frankel. Sterling Publishing
Company. New York. $2.50.

Book of Fascinating Facts, The, Jeff E. Thompson.
Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

BOy and His Dog. A, Stanley Pashko. Greenberg,
Publisher, New York. $2.50.

Camp Director’s Handbook and Buying Guide, The,
compiled and edited by Howard P. Galloway, Pub—

lisher, Plainfield, New Jersey. $1.00.

Camping for Blind Youth. Frampton and. Mitchell.
The New York Institute for the Education of the

Blind, New York.

Cat Who Went to Sea, The, Kathryn and Byron
Jackson. Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

Center Court, Helen Jacobs. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $2.50.

Cheese for Lafayette, A, Elizabeth Meg. G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, New York. $1.50.

Cinderella, adapted by Campbell Grant. Simon and
Schuster, New York. $.25.

City or Community, Elizabeth Handasy-de. The Na—
tional Council of Social SCI‘VICC, Incorporated,

London.

Counseling Adolescents, Shirley A. Hamrin _ and
Blanche B. Paulson. Science Research Assoc1ates,

Chicago. $3.50.

Dance A While, Jane A. Harris, Anne Pittman and
Marlys Swenson. Burgess Publishing Company,
Minneapolis. $2.50.

Dances and Stories of the American Indian, Bernard
S. Mason. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York.

$5.00.

Every Woman’s Guide to Spare-Time Income, Max-
well Lehman and Morton Yarman. Harcourt, Brace
and Company” New York. $2.95.

Exploring Our National Parks and Monuments,
Devereux Butcher. Houghton Miinn. Company,
Boston. $3.50.

Favorite Folktales and Fables, Joanna Strong. Hart
Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Fifty Learning Games, Caroline Horowitz. Hart Pub-
lishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Forty Rainy-Day Games, Caroline Horowitz. Hart
Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Fun for Tiny Tots, Marion Jollison. Hart Publishing
Company, New York. $1.25.

Games the World Around, Sarah Hunt and Ethel
Cain. A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. $3.00.

Games You Can Make and Play, Paul V. Champion.
The Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee. $2.50.

Going to Camp, Helen L. Beck. Stephen Daye Press,
New York. $1.95. -

Golden Funny Book, The, Gertrude Crampton. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $1.00.

Golf Course Guide, The, Anthony F. Merrill. Thomas
Y. Crowell Company, New York. $3.50.

230

Great Big Animal Book, The, illustrated by Fe-odor
Rojankovsky. Simon and Schuster, New York. $1.00.

Greatest Victory, The, Frank O'Rourke. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $2.50.

Handbook for Guardians of Camp Fire Girls, Camp
Fire Girls, Incorporated, New York. $.85.

Hand Weaving with Reeds and Fibers, ()sma C. Gal-
linger and Oscar H. Benson. Pitman Publishing
Corporation, New York. $3.00.

Health Program for Colleges, A. A report of the
Third National Conference on Health in Colleges.
National Tuberculosis Association, New York.

Here’s Your Hobby, Harry Zarchy. Alfred A. Knopf,
Publisher, New York. $2.50.

How to Draw, Victor Perard. Pitman Publishing
Corporation, New York. $1.95.

Human Factors in Management, edited by Schuyler
Dean Hoslett. The Park College Press, Parkville,
Missouri. $4.00.

Inland Waterway Guide. Marina Publishing House,
Incorporated, Wilmington, North Carolina. $1.00.

Jolly Barnyard, The, Annie North Bedford. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $.25.

Jolly Jokes and Jingles, edited by Jeff Thompson.
Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Leather Braiding, Bruce Grant. Cornell Maritime
Press, Cambridge. $3.00.

Leatherwork, F. R. Smith. Pitman Publishing Cor-
poration, New York. $1.50.

Little Fat Policeman, The, Margaret Wise Brown and
Edith Thacher Hurd. Simon and Schuster, New
York. $.25.

Little Yip-Yip and His Bark, Kathryn and Byron
Jackson. Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

Marvelous Merry-Go-Round, The, Jane Werner.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

Merrgr Piper, The. Simon and Schuster, New York.
$.2 .

Modern Book Ends, R. B. Newhauser. IThe Bruce
Publishing Company, Milwaukee. $2.25.

My Greatest Day in Golf, Darsie L. Darsie. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York. $3.00.

Neighbors in Action, Ray Dubois. Harper and Broth-
ers, New York. $3.00.

New Singing Time, Satis N. Coleman. The John Day
Company, New York. $2.50.

Once Upon A Wintertime, adapted by Tom Oreb.
Simon and Schuster, New York. $.25.

One Bright Day, Pearl S. Buck. The John Day Com—
pany, New York. $2.00.

Pencil Pastimes, Jeff Thompson.- Hart Publishing
Company, New York. $ 1.00.

Public Welfare Directory, The, Loula Dunn, editor.
American Public Welfare Association, Chicago.
$5.00, with discounts for ten or more.

Raff-1a, Annie L. Begg. Pitman Publishing Corpora-
tion, New York. $1.50.

Santa’s Toy Shop, adapted by Al Dempster. Simon and
Schuster, New York. $.25.

Seventy-five Ways for Boys to Make Money, Adrian
A. Paradis. Greenberg, Publisher, New York. $1.95.

Simple Basketry, Mabel Rof‘fey. Pitman Publishing
Corporation, New York. $1.50.

Sixty Snappy Quizzes, Tom B. Leonard. Hart Pub-
lishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Sixty Swell Playmate Games, Caroline Horowitz.
Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

Sunshine, Ludwig Bemelmans. Simon and Schuster,
New York. $2.50.

Surprise for Sally, Ethel Crowninshield. Simon and
Schuster, New York. $.25.

RECREATION

 

Informal Adult Education

Malcolm S. Knowles. Association Press, New
York. $4.00.

ALCOLM KNOWLES, in Informal Adult Educa-
tion, writes that “adulthood is a largely un-
fulfilled opportunity. Adults want to learn. Every
person has capacities that if realized will contribute
to the well-being of himself and of society. To
achieve these potentials requires skills of many
kinds—vocational, social, recreational, civic, ar-
tistic and the like.”

Leisure-time agencies are facing an increasing
number of adults in search of help in acquiring
these Skills—not in the traditional classroom credit
courses, but in informal ways “where a group of
people come together for the purpose of learning
something simply because they want to know
about it.”

Mr. Knowles’ book is a manual for leaders of
these groups, whether they be clubs, classes or
forums. Methods of exploring group organization
patterns, determining interest and leader-group
relationships are explained.

More than forty typical adult education pro-
grams are listed—programs of many different types
of agencies in cities of all sizes and in rural areas.

There is also a good bibliography of books, peri--

0dicals and pamphlets on the subject.
Mr. Knowles writes from the practical experi-
ence of many years as director of education of

Central YMCA, Chicago. He is a member of the

Executive Council of the American Association of
Adult Education, on the Conference Committee of
the Department of Adult Education of the National
Education Association, and president of the Adult
Education Council of Greater Chicago.

Leaders in recreation departments who are re-
sponsible for adult programs will do well to read
Informal Adult Education and keep it close at
hand for frequent ref erence.—Marion Preece, Dis-
trict Representative, National Recreation Assoc.

Community Centres

The University of Manitoba Press, \Vinnipeg,
Canada. $I.oo.

' I ‘I-[E PLANNING RESEARCH CENTER of the School
of Architecture that prepared this booklet, after
conducting a fifteen-month program of research,

SEPTEMBER 1950

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure-time Field

has issued a report that is exceptionally concise,
clear, graphic and attractive. It succeeded in its
attempt “to maintain at all times a practical and
logical approach to the problem of community cen-
tre design and to set down our findings and sug-

gestions in as clear and straightforward a manner
as pOSSIble.”

This report affords a useful guide to any com-
munity, large or small, that is considering the es-
tablishment of a recreation building or community
center. . Suggested procedures in planning and or-
gantzatlon are summarized in a nine-point working
formula. Each unit in a building is considered
separately, with drawings to illustrate design factors
and principles. The variety of building types pic-
tured in the report offers a wide range of possi-
bilities open to a community with limited means
that desires to establish a center. An unusually
valuable feature is the section devoted to detailed
construction drawings of various structural units.
w—C3eorge D. Butler, Director of Research, Na-
tional Recreation Association ; author of “Recreation
Areas—Their Design and Equipment,” and others.

Opportunities in Physical Education,
Health and Recreation ‘

Jay B. Nash. Vocational Guidance Manuals, In-
corporated, New York. S 1.00.

THIS SMALL vOLL'ME is one in a series designed
to help young people in choosing a career. It
contains a discussion of the relationship between
the fields of physical education, health education
and recreation, and outlines the oppportunities in
each. Major consideration is given to the field of
physical education, but personal requirements, con-
ditions of employment, duties, remuneration and
suggestions for getting started are offered for each

of the fields.

A list of institutions offering professional educa-
tion in the three areas, with notations as to the
major fields in which instructions are offered, is a
useful feature of the book. Experienced recreation
leaders might question the adequacy of the sug-
gested college curriculum for training recreation
workers. and some might take exception to the.
suggestion that the "student interested in recrea-
tion should probably consider a dual major when

231

planning his courses.” The duties associated with
various recreation positions are merely hinted at
and a much fuller delineation of them would un—
doubtedly add to the usefulness of the manual. In
spite of its limitations, however, it should provide
a useful guide to prospective workers in physical
education, health and recreation. —-- George D.
Butler.

Know Your Cauocing

Lahore Morehouse and Leonard Fancher. W est-
ern l.)ivision, Amencan Canoe Assoc1atlon, Clu-
cago, IllInOIs. $.50.

F YOU IIAVE NOT caught up with this new pam-
phlet on canoeing, put it on the list for your
camping tool kit next season. Its purpose is “to
promote a better understanding of the safety and
handling of canoes.” Care of the canoe, safety,
paddling strokes—using only standardized stroke
names are discussed in detail and illustrated with
photographs and charts.

 

The Theory of Camping

Frank L. Irwin. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $2.50.

HERE Is well-presented material emphasizing the
“Objectives and techniques of camping in the
light of its growing recognition as an important
and integral part of the general educational pro-
gram.” This book will be welcomed by instructors
of camping courses, and will provide good discus-
sion material, especially with the related questions
for discussion which the author has included in
each chapter.

The author has written convincingly of the part
camping can play in the total education of the
child of today, and has related the goals of Ameri-
can education to the potentialities of a good camp-
ing experience. The chapters on “Understanding
the Camper,” “Group Life in Camp,” and “The
Counselor” seem to the reviewer to be especially
helpful to camp directors as a foundation for the
evaluation of a camp’s specific objectives and way
of work. The summaries of the chapters will make
good discussion points for any group of camp-
minded leaders.

This is a good addition to the suddenly growing
number of publications on organized camping.—
C atherine T. Hammett, consultant in camping and
outdoor living. i

Camping for Blind Youth

.\1. E. Frampton, Ph.D., and Paul C. Mitchell. The
New York Institute for the Blind, New York.

IN 1937, the principal of the New York Institute
began to ask questions about camping facilities
for handicapped children and particularly for the
blind child. Through a survey, he discovered that
there were few, if any, available. Therefore, he
decided to attempt such a project himself, and es-
tablished Camp \Vapanacki. The succeeding years

232

proved the value of his enterprise, and in 1942 it
was taken over by the institute, which has oper-
ated it ever since. Thus, this manual is based upon
sound, actual experience. It covers leadership,
program, necessary camp rules, aims and objec-
tives, and includes a bibliography.

Lift Every Voice

Board of Education Of The Methodist Church,
Nashville, Tennessee. $.25 each; 20 for $4.50;
50 for $10.00; 100 for $18.00.

THIS NEW, small and handy song book, to .use
indoors or out, contains a collection of hymns,
spirituals, fun and folk songs that have delighted
people around the world for many years. The songs
and music score are followed by a page of sugges-
tions for song leading. Order from the Service De-
partment, Box 871, Nashville, Tennessee.

Counseling Adolescents

Shirley A. Harin, Ph. D., and Blanche B. Paulson.
Science Research Associates, Chicago, Illinois.

$3-50-

HERE IS A PRACTICAL how-to-do-it book which
will help the teacher or counselor evaluate
leading counseling theories and draw on the most
workable features of each. To illustrate key points,
it describes practices that have proved effective in
high schools and colleges. Actual interviews are
cited plentifully and case summaries given. Dr.
Harin is professor of education at Northwestern
University, and Miss Paulson is coordinator in
the Division of Guidance and Counseling in the
Chicago public schools.

ll

 

 

Officers and Directors of the

National Recreation Association

OFFICERS
OTTO T. MALLERY, Chairman of the Board of Directors
REV. PAUL MOORE, JR., First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPH PRENDERGAS'I‘, Secretary and Executive Director '

DIRECTORS
F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.
F. GREGG BEMIS, Boston, Mass.
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.
HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.
ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.
Roam-r GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.‘
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. 1., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, Augusta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Woodbury, N. Y.
REV. PAUL MOORE, JR., Jersey City, N. J.
JOSEPH PRENDERGAS'I‘, New York, N. Y.
SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

GRANT TITSWOR'I‘H, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Training Institutes

(Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation: Association and local recreation departments)

September, October and November, 1950

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

National Recreation Congress“
October 2-6

Haynesville, Alabama
October 16-20

Talladega, Alabama
October 23-27

Birmingham, Alabama
October 30-November 3

Elba, Alabama
November 6—10

Mobile, Alabama
November 13-17

Wetumpka, Alabama
November 20-24

Charlotte, North Carolina
September 25-29

National Recreation Congress“
October 2-6

North Central District
October 16-N0vember 24

National Recreation Congress*
October 2-6

Galveston, Texas
October 9-13

Seguin, Texas
October 16-20

Amarillo, Texas
October 23-27

Wichita Falls, Texas
October 30-November 3

Tyler, Texas
N ovemlber 6-10

Toledo, Ohio
September 11-29

National Recreation: Congress*
October 2-6

Akron, Ohio
October 9-20

Hammond, Indiana
October 23-November 3

Elkhart, Indiana
November 6-17

Springfield, Illinois
November 20—24

Durham,N0rth Carolina
September 18-23

National Recreation Congress“
October 2-6

Miss Hulda Coleman, Superintendent of Schools,
Lowndes County

F. L. Harwell, Superintendent of Schools

Dr. I. F. Simmons, Superintendent of Schools,
Jefferson County

K. G. Krook, Superintendent of Schools
K. J. Clark, Superintendent of Schools, Mobile County

J. R. Formby, Superintendent of Schools, Elmore
County

Robert L. Coons, General Secretary, YMCA,
330 South Tryon Street

William Schuler, Superintendent of Recreation and
Parks, Menard Community Center

George A. Lewrey, Superintendent of Recreation,
City Hall

Jack Hans, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

Raybon_ \V. Porter, Minister of Education, First
Methodist Church, 10th and Travis Streets

Robert Shelton, Director of Parks and Recreation,
City Hall

A. G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Department
of \Velfare, 214 Safety Building

A. E. Center, Superintendent of Recreation,
325 Locust Street

J. N. Higgins, Director, Board of Parks and
Recreation

K. Mark Cowen, Superintendent, Board of Parks and
Recreation, Municipal Building

H_. Francis Shuster, Superintendent of Recreation,
City Hall

Irwin R. Holmes, Supervisor of Activities for Segmes.
\V. 1). Hill Community Center, 1308 Fayetteville St.

* A series of four training sessions in each of the following fields will be offered at the National Recreation Con-
gress in Cleveland, Ohio, October 2-6: arts and crafts, drama, soc1al recreation. NRA leadership training spec1al-
ists will 'be in charge. All registered delegates at the Congress may partic1pate in this training program.

HEN YOU’RE DAYDREAMING per- " ’

haps you, like most people,
iind yourself doodling pictures of the
things you want most.

Maybe there’s a house you have
in mind you’d like to build.

0r you’re wondering which college
you’d like your child to attend a
few years from now. Or maybe you’d
like to own a brand-new automobile
someday.

 

 

One sure way to take your day-
dreams out of the doodling stage—-
and make ’em come true—is to set
aside part of your salary regularly
in U. S. Savings Bonds.

So sign up on the Payroll Savings
Plan where you work, or the Bond-
A-Month Plan where you have a
checking account.

Start making your daydreams
come true right now!

am AM 56 Mo; badéng— LLSSW Bonsz -x

Contributed by this magazine in co-operation with the Magazine Publishers
of America as a public service.

