  

Playground Issue
AP R I L, 1 9 5 O

no playground is complete without a

““ Hooter ””

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

climbing structure

5"!

«e
y t

 
   

 
    
   
  

  
  
 
  
 

£-
. aim-l
g‘f‘;

3.

   

In
3:.

i".
I I

l
u

  
 

I

   
  
  

 

I
A

‘I

F
#
#

'r _

"'1

Safety, no maintenance, biggest play capacity per
square foot of ground area and per dollar of
cost—these are iust a few of the reasons why
JUNGLEGYM is admittedly the world’s most famous
playground device. Thousands are in daily use
from coast to coast. Why not give the children of
your playground the advantages of a JUNGLEGYM

r
4"!-

I950 Streamlined line That Will Save

H Write for Illustrated Bulletin On Porter's
You Money . . . Time.

PORTER can supply you with these fundamental playground units, too!

No. 240 Merry-Go-Round

Will safely accommodate 30 children at x  I.
one time. Noiseless, no-wobble, no- 
sway operation. An engineering mar-  “m,

vel, and precision-mode. Guaranteed.
No. 136 Stratosphere See-Sow

Sensationally new. Gives “ups-o-doisy"
ride 33-1 /3‘% higher than conventional
see-sow, yet safer because of haop
handles, soddle seats and level-seat
feature.

   

No. 5 8-F Playground

 

Basketball Backstop No. 38 Combination Set
A..II:$teel fan-shaped bank Offers six different kinds of funful, No' 109 SIX-Swmg Set
rigidly mounted on steel healthful playground activity. A cam- Built for safe, permanent service. Sturdy
most and braced for permo. pact, economical unit thot's ideal for lO-ft. frame held rigidly together by
nentservrce.Fmrshedtowlth- limited ground areas. Ruggedly con- Tested Molleoble Iron fitting of exclu-
stand the weather. Official. structed.

sive Porter “bolt-through" design.
S M“ x

aft

THE 1. LP CORPORATION
OTTAWA, rumors

MANUFAUURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

 

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM=l= cuMBmG
Reg.U.$.Pai.ory. STRUCTURE

 

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ

Vol XLIV Price 35 Cents NO. 1

0n the Cover

When the big top visits town, ideas for
playground circuses are born; small fry
eagerly absorb pointers from the big timers
for their own clown acts. (See page 18 of
this issue.) Photo by Hirz.

Photo Credits

Page 4-, upper left, The Milwaukee Jour-
nal; page 6, Ralph Winn, Peoria Star
Newspaper; page 7, Saskatoon Playgrounds
Association, Canada; page 15, Akron Bea-
con Journal; page 24, lower left and upper

right, Long Beach Recreation Commission,
California; pages 34- and 35, Wilbur A.
Nowak, Hewlett, New York.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Associa-
tion of America, a service organization supported
by voluntary contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, New York; is on Ele in public
libraries and is indexed in the Reader-5’ Gaide.
Subscriptions $3.00 a year. Canadian agency,
G. R. Welch Company, Ltd., 1149 King Street
West. Toronto 1, Ontario; Canadian subscription
rate $3.85. Entered as second-class matter June
12, 1929, at the Post Oilice in New York, New
York, under Acr of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for
in Section 1103. Acr of October 3. 1917, author-
ized May 1, 1924.

Advertising Representative, H. Thayer Heaton. 415
Lexington Avenue, New York.

Copyright. 1950, by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A.

 

NEXT 'MONTH

The May 1950 issue of RECREATION has
been enlarged to include sixty-four pages
of summer suggestions and seasonal infor-
mation—articles on camping, recreation
services for the elderly, and greatly needed
material on working with today's volunteer.

APRIL 1950

    
 

THE MAGAZINE

    

I

/ ’/ /

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

APRIL 1950

Looking Forward (editorial), Joseph Prendergast. .. 3
Children Need Places to Play ............................................. .. 4

What About Our Playgrounds? Virginia Musselman.. -. 5
They Don’t Have to Swing or Teeter, Helen Hostvct . ll

Playtime Takes to the Air ............................................ .. 12
Values of Play ........................................................... ., 14-
Playing Safe, Stephen H. Mahoney .............. .. 15
Notes from a Playground Institute ........... .. 17
You Can Build' a Totlot, Blanche W. Northwood. 20
Playgrounds Are for All Ages .............................. .. 24-
Functions and Duties of Boards—Part II, Roy Sorenson. 26
Let’s Play House, Raymond T. Wiley .......................  .... ., 30
Day Camps and How They Operate in Pittsburgh. 31
Day Camp for Children in Bed, Louise Adler ........ .. 34
Crafts for Outdoor Playgrounds, Myrtie G. Houpt. 36
Want A Pet? Helen M. Klemm ..........................  38
Sod for Playgrounds ....................................... .. 42
Flashes from the Forty-Eight (States) .. 44-
Special Events

On the Playgrounds—1949 ................ .. 6
Program Planning for Playgrounds and Community

Centers, Wilma Clizbe........  .  . 9
Make Way—for the Big Top,

Eileen Sims and Doreen Kirkland. [3
Tagged Fish Rodeo, Jack Hans ..... .4 .23
Your Spring Calendar ............. .. -- 10
Regular F eatures
Magazines and Pamphlets . . 16
Books Received ........... .. 40
New Publications .. 18

l

 

quickly and effectively
with Gulf Sani-SoiI-Set

 

GULF SANI-SOIL—SET is the practical answer to
your dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
vesrigate this efficient dust-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust

annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
is ready for use. The dust allaying effeCt is accomplished

by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains

effeCtive for long periods. One application per season or
year is usually sufficient.

Gulf Oil Corporation ° Gulf Refining Company

GULF BUILDING, PITTSBURGH, PA.

Sales Offices - Warehouses
Located in principal cities
and towns throughout
Guif’s marketing territory

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,

easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
prevents the growth of grass on areas treated, and mini-

mizes dust annoyance and expense in near-by houses,
stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf oliice
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below.

r _________________________ ....

Gulf Oil Corporation ' Gulf Refining Company R
3702 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the booklet, "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern, proven agent for controlling dust.”

Name........................ .. 

Title......  



£ookil4g 5701‘thl‘d

0N ASSUMING OFFICE as Executive Director of
the National Recreation Association, I have

found an experienced and outstanding Board of
Directors, a list of loyal, generous and long-time
contributors and supporters, an able, devoted and
hardworking staff both at the headquarters oflice
and in the field, a magnificent record of achieve-
ment during the past forty-four years, and a chal-
lenging future.

On my desk, when I reported for work, were
gracious letters of congratulations and best wishes
from innumerable recreation executives and lead-
ers and from other organizations and individuals
who had worked with the Association through the
years. On my trips throughout the country, I am
seeing the practical results of the far-seeing vision
of Joseph Lee and Howard Braucher; I am meeting
the recreation executives who are carrying forward
the ideals of the recreation movement, and I am
getting to know many of the enthusiastic, inspired,
well-trained recreation leaders with their gift for
friendly cooperation—and tireless-square dancing.

It all has been quite overwhelming.

Now that I am beginning to get my feet on the
ground and look around me, I am finding that al-
though much has been accomplished, a great deal
more remains to be done. It seems to me that our
goals can only be achieved if we who are interested
in the recreation movement will close our ranks, not
as a regimented army, but as a mutually supporting
and cooperating team of professionals, volunteers
and interested citizens inspired by a faith greater
than the personal interests of any one or more of us.

It seems to me that the recreation movement is
reaching its maturity; that all of us should now be
able to stand on our own feet, accept differences of
opinion in good spirit, work out methods of cooper-
ating for the common good, and devote our hearts,
minds and energy to the job before us.

The National Recreation Association for its part
stands ready to continue to help in any way it can
in our common effort. We are reviewing the place
which the Association should have in the over-all
recreation movement. We are testing the necessity
and efficiency of our many services. We are seeking

APRIL 1950

MW

' Editorial I

new ways to be of service. We are now subjecting
our publications, and among them RECREATION, to
a careful study.

We believe that RECREATION magazine should
play an important part in bringing us all together
to share experiences, to impart inspiration, to keep
us ahead of new developments in the field of recrea-
tion. We want the magazine to mean more to you
than perhaps it has in the past, to be the kind of
magazine that you want to receive, one that will
bring you needed inspiration, suggestions to help
you do your recreation job.

From the many letters of appreciation and com-
mendation received by the Association, regarding
recent changes in the content and format of REC-
REATION, we feel that we may already be on the
right track, and that growth and expansion along
its present lines may be the answer—rather than a
complete change of policy. We are, in any event,
looking for constructive suggestions or criticisms to
act as guides in planning for the future. A ques-
tionnaire will be coming to you presently. We hope
that you will give the Iquestions serious thought
before returning it to us.

In the past it has been the general policy of
RECREATION to publish only editorials by Howard
Braucher. Those of you who had the opportunity
through the years to read those inspiring editorials
will miss them, we know—but there is only one
Howard Braucher, and such a consistently high
editorial standard is hard to match.

Today we are planning to bring you, in addition
to messages from the editor, the thinking of leaders
in the recreation movement and of other outstand-
ing people throughout the country. The editorial
pages also will be opened to letters-to-the-editor
from those who wish to write us. We hope you will
make it you-r page.

I am looking forward to meeting you all per-
sonally; and thank you for your wonderful we]-
come.

‘1

Q

CHILDREN NEED
PLACES TO PLA Y

RESENT day boys and girls are more dependent than
Pever before on public playgrounds, day camps, back—
yard playgrounds, sandlots and totlots. Increasingly
unavailable to them are the open iields, woods and
streams in which their grandparents roamed at will.
Streets are crowded and full of traffic; even empty lots
cannot be found in many neighborhoods: Adequate rec-
reation areas and good leadership have become impera—
tive necessities in cities and desirable everywhere. That
When a “letter” really needs a playground. the country, at large, is becoming aware of this great
NO Place to 9133" and the hours tum into need, is evidenced in the heartening report of 13,520

dull boredom. Idleness is bad for children .

. . . . ’ playgrounds 1n 1949. (See the June 1949 RECREA-
tft 1 d t va 10u ant1-soc1al acts.
‘ 6“ ea mg 0 r S TION Year Book.)

 

 

Here they come! Eager and ready for adventure, they race to the playground when
school 15 over. Here, under careful leadership, they will spend their time in safe
and constructive play that .will help make them grow into normal, happy adults.

’* RECREATION

Boys and Girls—or Skimpy Budgets

‘p

What About Our PLA YGROUNDS?

New York Tittté’s, February 9, 1950—

“Berlin, February 8 (AP)—Under another law
enacted today, a boy or girl in the Soviet zone
must be a. member of the Free German Y oath or
will not be able to take part in sports, picnics,
hikes, travels, certain school work and even in
the choice of a profession.”

HERE, 'in these blessed United States, we feel

Virginia Mussclman

bers that no parent or teacher would attempt to
handle? What individual attention can we expect
from such a leader? How much personal influence
can he have on any one child?

\Ve like to believe that our playgrounds are
democracy in action. Are they? Or do they cater
mostly to the active, sports-loving youngster who
can Spend hours and days playing softball? Are
there any activities for the very small children, or

“ms-Ammo mmnigmnnv qiire,tlLaLthfLahDi€__(lQnI_lL€.-Ql_d€I ones monopolize the equipment and

at is happening to the shy little girls
)oys are battling away at volleyball?

********************************************n1€ crippled youngsters, 01' the ones

Because of narrow back margins this volume

has been sewed to cords.

sewing is used.

********************************************#

perous, well-fed nation is offering its young people
in the way of recreation?

Are we skimping?

What about our playgrounds? Are there enough
of them so that every youngster can use them?
Are they big enough for a really good program?
Do they provide space suitable for all age groups?

And our leaders. Do we employ inexperienced
leaders because we don’t want to pay enough to
attract really tine ones? \Vhat effect (10 these
leaders have upon our youngsters? Do we pro-
vide enough leaders, or do we expect one or two
people to be able to work successfully with num-

 

Virginia Mnsselman, in charge of Correspondence
and Consultation Bureau, NRA, is also responsible
for the writing of the Summer Playground N otebooh.

APRIL 1950

-_ . No covers or
advertislng can be removed when this type of

rheumatic fever, or polio, or who,
I, are not athletically skilled? \Vhat
.ess teen-agers? Are the boys being
tball while the girls look on? W" hat
the game is over? A dance on F ri—
- hat about the ones who don’t dance?
mmunity there are still people who
say, “\Ve didn't have such things
young.” They're right. They didn't
have radio, then, or television! Electric lights and
telephones are still very young! They didn't have
airplanes, and the rest of the world was very far
away. They hadn’t had two world wars, and pros-
pects of a third. They hadn’t had an atom bomb,
and a hydrogen bomb hadn’t been dreamed of,
even in the comics.

The world has changed. Have our ideas-and our
eFforts to develop future citizens that we and the
world can be proud of kept up with these changes?
Have we thought about it enough, talked about it
enough?

\V e know we don't want anything like the Ger—
man Youth—so similar to the Hitler Youth of the
1930's. But have we really thought about what we
do want? \Vhich is the more important—our boys

and girls. or our budgets?

oN THE PLAYGROUNDS - - 1949 '

Scattered Notes from Here and There

N TAKING AN over-all look at playground activi—
I ties, it is agreed that Special events, held often
enough to keep the children filled with eager antici—
pation and to interest parents in participating in
their own adult program; the use of imagination
in planning activities and equipment to range be-
yond the traditional and the uniform ; wider Oppor-
tunities for creative eXperience—all play their part
in a successful playground season. Playgrounds
nowadays are for all ages and sizes; good leader—
ship and safety are of paramount importance. The
following are samples of program events on the
playgrounds of 1949.

Butler, Pennsylvania—Kiddie Carnival—For
every child to be presented with twenty-five dollars
to spend at a carnival is the ultimate in thrills. It is
possible on any playground as was demonstrated
on the Ritts Park Playground last summer. The
carnival was set up and run by the children them-
selves, and preparations for the big day were begun
about a week in advance. With a small rubber
stamp set, the amateur counterfeiters printed all
their own money on pieces of cardboard the size
of a bill in denominations of one dollar, two dol-
lars, five dollars and ten dollars. Then someone
was given the job of distributing the money to the
youngsters as they arrived for the carnival.

The carnival people worked on prizes for games
he big show, and many of these they made

l‘lm. sr"es. including faces pasted on cardboard
wit" . \t that moved, stuffed crepe-paper birds,

r
1

(.

 

A glance at these faces reveals that youngsters are
thrilled by antics of puppets in Peoria, Illinois.

Clothespin dolls, and other kinds of light handcraft
articles. Discarded toys brought from home were
given as additional awards. The playground was
decorated with crepe-paper birds, paper chains and
lanterns. Games were made up and put on by the
childrenwamong them bingo, table shuffleboard,
knocking over tin cans with balls, pitching pen-
nies, tossing jar rubbers on Clothespin pegs, tos-
sing beans on a calendar sheet, and pinning the
tail on the donkey.

Everyone took turns running the concessions.
Some sideshows consisted of pets displayed as rare
animals—one example, a hamster; others intro—
duced the fat lady, the strong man, thebearded
lady, and similar freaks thought of by the boys and
girls. Two plays, “Cinderella” and “Snow \Nhite
and the Seven Dwarfs,” were added attractions.
A p0pcorn stand and gay victrola music created
the appropriate atmosphere. After the afternoon
was over, all the children could ask was, “When
is the next carnival going to be ?”-——-foan. McCaf—
ferty.

Washington, Kentucky -— Dress-Up Day ——
The lipsticked ladies could sniff elegantly at the
tramps and hoboes when all of them appeared at

RECREATION

the playground in dress-up clothes. Mother’s old
clothes never looked better and father’s aged, for-
saken jackets and jeans saw valiant service. A
little Dutch girl, a night watchman, a cowgirl, two
old ladies with spectacles and hunched backs,
Martha Washington, circus clowns and disrep-
utable hoboes were allowed to join the parade and
compete for dress-up prizes. On another day, six
continents were represented when the local dolls
went on parade. Two special events were planned
each week.

Syracuse, New York—Playground Elections——
On July I 5, an estimated 5,000 Syracuse play-
grounders went to the “polls” to select their lead—
ers for a day. In a program of citizen education
through recreation, they were learning how to be-
come good members of democracy.

It was a very real election, with a full day spent
in written registration, and three days of cam-
paigning preceding the balloting. Parties were
framed and named, but pollsters were foiled when
the regulation of “no real party names” was ad-
hered to on all thirty-one playgrounds. Political
conventions were held and candidates selected.
Platforms, slogans and speeches were also part of

 

‘Children prepare for annual sandbox contest, a big
event on the playgrounds of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.

the important election sequence.

Campaign committees made banners, planned
and held parades, stumped with political buttons
and ribbons. All were free to conduct their own
campaigns according to their ideas, receiving sug—
gestions from recreation leaders only as to required

APRIL 1950

dates, hours, and rules. Names and slogans gave
humorous touches to the campaign. The “Shinoo”
party in one area used the slrigan “Like the
Shmoos, we produce.” Another group claimed:
“We’ll do more than Duz ever did."

Following the balloting, elected leaders toured
City Hall, were oriented on their jobs as public
servants, and ended the day of celebration with a
trip to the theater as guests of the city. -While
at the City Hall, the youngsters conferred with
Irving Berman, Director of Municipal Research,
on problems of playground government.

The successful candidates, having planned the
prOgram in advance with recreation leaders, as-
sumed the task of operating their neighborhood
playgrounds on the Tuesday following elections.
Facing the problems of organizing and conducting
a varied program of dancing, games, singing, story-
telling and dramatics, they learned early in the
day that there is more to an election than getting
the votes. Most wore their badges proudly and
carried on a successful day of activities for their
playmates—but few kept campaign pledges of free
ice cream and marble swimming pools.

Boston, Massachusetts—Flying Horses —A
backyard playground, constructed and run by a
private citizen—Rudolph St. Louis—for the last
few years, consists of a plot forty-by-sixty feet
filled with swings, a wading pool, slides, stationary
airplanes and yelling boys and girls. The equip-
ment—iron bedsteads becoming the frames for
slides, odds and ends, an airplane, scraps of lum-
ber, a wading pool—most of it made from junk
other people have thrown away, has been con-
structed by the owner. Joseph Lee of Boston,
writes: “\Ve are using some of Mr. St. Louis’ fly-
ing horses, swans and lions on one of our own mu-
nicipal playgrounds. The flying horses are con-
structed on the principle of a swing, with a wooden
framework painted and shaped like a horse to sit
astride of, instead of an ordinary seat. They are
like merry-go-round horses flattened out by a steam
roller. Each horse has a seat nailed on its back
and is suspended by its head and tail to an over-
head pipe, so that you ride forward and back,
rocking-horse style or tandem-wise, under the
length of the overhead pipe, instead of swinging at
right angles to the overhead pipe as on a regular
swing. In other words, the motion of the horse
is at right angles to what the motion of a swing
would be if it were suspended from the same over-
head pipe. Thus the thing combines the fun of
swinging and the imagination-play of hobby-hors-
ing. The horses swing close to the ground; the
overhead pipes are about seven or eight feet up."

7

Baltimore, Maryland—Safe Fun—A Safety
Club for children five to eleven years of age was
organized at the Patterson Park Playground. Two
hundred boys and girls enrolled and learned their
safety pledge, and received a membership card.

The Playground Safety Pledge

i. Use equipment in proper way.

.2. Park bikes at gate.

3. Keep sand in sand pits.

4. Pick up all glass, stones and trash.

5. Report all accidents to the leader.

6. Be careful at street-crossings when going to
and from the playground.

Large metal containers were painted and let-
tered, “Patterson Park Safety Club . . . Keep Your
Playground Clean,” and the children were encour~
aged to put lunch papers, stones, and glass into the
cans. Large white Hour bags were printed with
the same words. The safeties’ duties were to
gather paper, and so forth, from the playground
daily, put it into the bags, and then empty the
trash into the metal containers.

In addition, the Automobile Club of Maryland
supplied white safety belts and safety badges. The
group was organized with one general, two cap-
tains, three lieutenants and eight patrolmen, and
the officers were stationed at the playground on
Red Letter Days. They also were on duty at street
corners when groups left the playground.

These safety devices added to the program of
fun, consisting of the following daily activities:

Children: arts and crafts, efficiency tests, con-
tests, clubs (hobby, nature, safety, travel), music,
gardens, story hours, dramatics, swimming.

Teen-agers; pool, table games, social dancing,
tournaments, holiday parties, deck tennis, volley-
ball, softball, horseshoes, track and field meets,
swimming and tennis instruction.

Adults: music appreciation, swimming, weav-
ing, sports including net games, and tennis.

Red Letter Days offered an opening day magic
show, July fourth treasure hunt, playday races,
turtle derby, doll show, the fair, twin show, con-
certs, athletic meets—Virginia Baker.

Lebanon, Indiana—Family Nights—These,
part of a program of activities for all ages, included
band concerts, pitch-in suppers, athletics, games
and outdoor shows. All-day celebrations for chil-
dren and adults covered treasure hunts, a doll
buggy and doll parade, baby contest, track and

field events, and bicycle races.

Rochester, Minnesota—Button Contest—An-
nouncements of the event carried the jingle:
“Bring your buttons big and'small

Join the contest one and all
From a shirt or from a shoe
From near or far—all kinds will do.”
Prizes were .given for the oldest, prettiest, oddest,
and so on.

Sylaeauga, Alabama ——- Teen Nights — Every
Tuesday night teen-agers gathered the clan to-
gether and made tracks for the playgrounds where
some of the popular events were a honky-tonk par-
ty, hayride, skating party, swimming party, hiking
party—which ended with dancing on the grass at
the lighted picnic area in the park, and a comic-
strip party. This last was especially successful,
with all participants dressed as their favorite
comic-strip characters. Pigtail parties also were
held weekly for “tween-teens,” ages eleven to thir-
teen. One of the outstanding special events of the
season was a Grandmother’s Night, when the chil-
dren were asked to bring their grandmothers, or
someone else’s grandmother. One little girl had
to send to Birmingham to get her grandparent;
she arrived in time, too!

Hamilton, Ohio—Little Fish Program—The
learn-to-swim instruction campaign known as the
“Little Fish” program was one of the most suc-
cessful activities of the whole recreation planning.
Lessons were given to non-swimmers every Tues-
day morning throughout the summer season.r Play-
ground leaders—three with Red Cross instructor’s
certificates-—conducted these lessons. Pupils tak-
ing them moved from one class to another pro—
gressively, according to skills learned. The various
classes had names—tadpoles, frogs, minnows, sun-
fish, sharks and whales. Upon passing the “shark”
test, pupils were eligible for the Red Cross begin-
ner’s swim certificate. Upon completion of the
“whale” class, they were eligible for the intermedi-
ate Red Cross certificate.

Dearhorn, Michigan—Storytelling—Through ‘
the cooperation of the city libraries, specially
trained librarians made regular visits to the play-
grounds to give the youngsters the unusual treat
of a professional storyteller. The children soon
learned to anticipate the day when the “Story
Lady” was to appear, and the librarian was always
assured of a fascinated and alert audience. In
addition, a daily storytelling period was carried
on by the playground directors. The children on
every playground also had access to a kit of books
especially selected by the local libraries for use on
the playgrounds. Favorite stories and picture
books were included, and the kits were changed
periodically. Dramatic skits and creative panto-
mime studies were a natural outgrowth of this

storytelling program.

RECREATION

 

Paper presented at a recreation conference.

PNNGRANI PLANNING

lor Playgrounds and Community Centers

N PLANNING a program of activities for the com-
munity center, a calendar for the season with
all the Special events and holiday activities-listed
'should be set up before the season gets under way.
This calendar will, of necessity, be reorganized
from time to time as situations occur which require
change of date or personnel. Most activities will
fall into one of the following four organization
classifications :

I. Informal Activitiesuusually require very
little organization and may be formed through a
desire to relax and find entertainment in congenial
company. It is the responsibility of the recreation
department to provide the participants with attrac-
tive, comfortable facilities and the necessary equip-
ment.

There should be a congenial leader on hand with
a thorough knowledge of the activities, but he or
she should remain in the background with the main
objective being to create an atmosphere of cordial—
ity and to help in organization, or to give instruc—
tion if necessary and if called upon. This leader
should also watch the activities to see that all de-
partmental policies are being followed.

2. Clubs—differ from other groups in commu—
nity center activities in that they are more highly
organized with club officers, by-laws, attendance

 

Mir: Clizbe mperm're: women’: and girls’ activi-
tie: in recreation department, Dearborn, Michigan.

APRIL 1950

Wilma 

reports, and require some particular interest for

membership.

The special interest club may be started by a
director as a result of a request from several indi-
viduals with a common interest. Under this head-
ing would fall the dramatic, various musical, chess,
nature study, stamp and other hobby clubs.

Purely social clubs may be formed through a
request from groups who are brought together by
common factors of age, nationality, class or neigh-
borhood. Here a great deal of the responsibility
for continued interest may fall upon the leader
who should always be in the background with
plans and suggestions for activities and special
functions when a group itself might seem to be
running out of ideas.

3. Class Organizations—include those activi-
ties which lend themselves to a more formal type
of organization. All of those activities which re-
quire instructions—such as tap dancing, social
dancing, swimming, photography, cooking, dress-
making, knitting, wood shop, leathercraft, band,
chorus, parliamentary law, public speaking and
many other related activities—would fall under
this heading.

4. Sports Programs—well—rounded, will take
care of all athletes in the city plus those who may
not be athletic but still enjoy active programs.
They should cover individuals of all ages, of both
sexes, and players with varying degrees of ability.

9

Sports of high team organization, as well as games
of individual skill, should be included in the plan-
ning. This program may be a part of regular com-
munity center activities or a separate phase of the
entire recreation program.

In playground program planning, the question
of skilled and interested leadership presents one
of the first considerations. Even after your staff
has been selected, the question of specific assign-
ment to particular playgrounds is a paramount

problem for the administrative staff. An exceed- .-

ineg fine director assigned to the wrong neighbor-
hood, or with another worker whose personality,
temperament, working knowledge and attitude
towards the assignment are not in harmony with
his own, may not do a satisfactory job.

As in planning for a community center, the cal-
endar of special events for the playground is im-
portant—and even more so as this program is
usually thought of in terms of weeks rather than
months. A fiexible weekly outline for the summer
is often helpful, especially to the new worker. A
theme for each week may be planned allowing for
substitutions when not practical, or in keeping
with the interests of a particular grounds. Some
of the possibilities include:

I. Get-Acquainted Week: Universally set
aside for organizational purposes and activities to
acquaint all the neighborhood with the playground
and its general plans for the summer.

2. Nature Week: Hikes, pet shows, nature
stories, nature studies and so on.

3. On Wheels Week: Bicycle parades, meets
for roller skaters, scooters and wagons.

4. Arts and Crafts Week: Stressing crafts
with exhibitions for parents and neighborhood.

5. Music and Drama Week: Playground
bands, puppet shows, performances by drama
clubs, creative dramatics by children—acting out
stories, folk dancing, singing, possibly a pageant
or festival.

6. Circus and Carnival Week: May be elab-
orated upon until the circus or carnival becomes
the biggest affair of the summer. Parades, conces-
sions, animal performances, games of skill, fortune
tellers and so on, plus plenty of colorful pageantry,
create an atmosphere of fun and great excitement.
(I am thinking here of these affairs being held on
each playground, rather than on a city-wide basis.)

7. Hobby Week

8. Indian Lore Week or Playground Pow-
Wow Week - ~

9. Safety Week

'10

IO. All-American or Patriotic Week: Usu-
ally the week of July fourth.

II. Leaders" Choice: Give the leaders an op-
portunity to show their own originality and in-
genuity.

It is not the intention of the department to pre-
sent a cut and dried schedule, but such a weekly
calendar as this will provide a working stimulant
to the staff, especially to the newcomers who are
working on a playground for the first time. All
activities may be planned around the theme for the
week. Crafts, storytelling, singing games, play-
ground dramatics and so forth should all be in
keeping with the theme designated.

In addition to the summer calendar, a daily
schedule should be drawn up. Here again there
may be an overlapping, and it should be under-
stood that this daily program is flexible rather
than fixed and rigid. A conscientious leader will
have a separate schedule for each age division
throughout the day, keeping in mind the periods
when the playground will have its greatest attend-
ance.

There should be one special neighborhood event
planned for each week. This is where parents’
associations and adult participation will be of most
value. The success of these events will have a very
strong bearing on the success of the playground
for the summer as they will help playground-goers
determine whether or not they want to return to
it for their summer recreation.

There are a great many phases of the summer
program which have not even been touched upon
in this very short presentation. The question of
publicity—posters and bulletin boards, neighbor-
hood fliers, parades, radio and neWSpapers—should
be considered.

In planning junior Olympics, what events other
than those listed under athletic badge tests by the
National Recreation Association might be used?
Another question which comes to mind is how far
should we work towards city championships and
record-breaking events?

Are we getting too much competition in play-
ground activities? (In Dearborn, we hold cham-
pionship meets for individual events ranging from
sandbox modeling to horseshoe pitching and in-
cluding storytelling, jacks, checkers, tether ball
and others.)

Another question brought to mind is the advis-
ability of the special events, which the children
love, but which often take them on field trips and
away from their home grounds. Has anyone any-
thing to offer on,this problem?

RECREATION

HILDREN AT University Village don’t have to swing
C or teeter to have fun. If they did, it would cost a
great deal to furnish them with playground equipment.
And we parents don’t have the money to put into
swings, teeter-totters and slides. But we do need a
playground to keep our children from the busy streets.

University Village is a housing project for veteran
students attending the University of Minnesota. There
is not room enough for our young ones to play between
the closely-crowded barracks and quonset units, so we
had to use some ingenuity, effort and time to find a
place for the children to have their fun. The Village’s
playground committee has planned four playgrounds

THEY now Inn
T0 SWING
on TEETER

HELEN HOSTVET

on unused lots throughout the 674 family units.

 

its side.

Each playground is to have two sections of cement culvert, two
telephone poles made into gym horses, a sandpile, a two-room roof-
less “maze,” and a set of wooden railroad tracks. The cement cul-
verts, three feet in diameter, were purchased at a reduced cost and
delivered to the playground areas. A shallow hole was dug for
each culvert to keep it from rolling, and the culvert was laid on

Fathers planed the two telephone poles and sawed each pole into

three parts—two short ones and one longer one.

were set into the ground, and the longer one fitted across them, to
make a gym horse. They will be painted in bright colors.

The committee is experimenting with sandboxes dug into the
ground, hoping that when sand is put into a hole in the ground,

children won’t be able to throw it as they do in a

 

The amount of equipment can be fitted into any
size playground, for any number of children. You
can put a few boxes, a sandbox, and a gym horse
in your own backyard; and, for a community play-
ground, just add more materials and more space.

Small country schools lacking in funds for ex-
pensive playground equipment could set up some-
thing like ours. Even children in an older age
group enjoy sandboxes, gym horses, and culverts.

According to the committee, these constructions

APRIL 1950

The short poles

 

regular sandbox.

Plans also call for a two-and-one-half to three-foot
maze. This will be tall enough to keep little ones off
the top, yet low enough that older children will not be
injured if they fall from it. The maze will be made of
two rooms, minus a roof, with a board along the top to
walk on.

The set of wooden railroad tracks will be made from
old railroad ties. Because steel is hard to get, the tracks
will be shaped from lumber. There is no end to ideas
that can be used for a project such as ours. Tents,
steps, pole fences and boxes are suitable.

are safer than swings and teeter-totters because
they are stationary. Another advantage is their
accommodation of a larger number of children
than ordinary equipment provides. Only one or
two children can sit on a swing, and not more
than four or six on a teeter-totter.

Psychologists say that an important part of a
child’s education is the development of his imag-
ination. Our playground fills this prescription
while some equipment offers little in this respect.

ll

 

PLA Y TIME

fakes to the AIR

Summary of a publicity-getter in Waterloo, Iowa

‘6 ELLO, this is your Playtime Reporter, Peg

Boemecke, broadcasting today from Bel-
mont Playground. The fellows and girls are gath-
ered about the tape recorder and are all ready to
bring their own program to you, so I’ll let them
take over.”

Approach a Waterloo, Iowa, playground during
a certain hour some afternoon and there, under
the largest shade tree, you would see the backs of
a few dozen youngsters gathered in a huddle, foot—
ball style. Around the fringes of the group, you’d
notice toddlers, teensters, and perhaps even a few
mothers. And, in the center of the circle, you’d
find the attention-getter—a small hand microphone
attached to a square box of gadgets called a tape
recorder. The microphone would be passed to one
youngster, then another, then perhaps to a group
of three or four, and eventually would make its
way to the playground supervisors. Finally, as
you watched, the man running the recorder would
switch it off, zip it into a canvas cover, and set
it in the trunk of his car. As he and the play-
ground radio worker would wave goodby and drive
OPE, the youngsters of the group would head for
various parts of the playground to resume their
regular activities.

Switch your radio dial to I320 a few days later
and you’d hear the results of the tape- recorder’s
visit. It would be played back over the air as one
of the series of fifteen-minute “Playtime” broad-
casts which were presented Monday through Fri-
day at 2 :30 p.m. pver Station KW,WL in Water-
loo. 

Yes, for ten weeks during the summer play-
ground season, fiftyéone broadcasts showed to

12

Waterlooans what the youngsters of the city were
doing during their leisure hours. These fifteen-
minute programs 'caught the spirit of the play-
grounds because the recorder Went right to the
boys and girls who were attending them, and en-
abled them to give their information and enter—
tainment as they chose.

“Playtime” developed as a summer replacement
program for “The School of the Air,” a broadcast
from the schools of Waterloo. “Playtime” fea-
tured these same youngsters at play. The program
was sponsored by the Iowa Public Service Com—
pany and was a project of the Waterloo Recrea—
tion Commission headed by Charles A. Kremenak,
Superintendent of Recreation.

To assist A1 Laval, the KWWL recording man,
the recreation commission hired Peg Boemecke, a
graduate of Iowa State Teachers College, to co-
ordinate between the station and the playgrounds,
and to work directly with the supervisors and
youngsters. In general, she lined up a week’s pro-
gram as follows:

During Monday morning staff meeting at the
recreation center, she would announce broadcast
dates for the following two weeks, then set times
with the playground supervisors for the recording.
By talking with the supervisors, she was_,,able to
get an idea at what time the greatest number of
youngsters would be on the playgrounds. She also
could discover what special activities planned for
that week might conflict with programming.

There would‘usually be one music broadcast a
week which was recorded Wednesday morning by
Al. This shortened Peg’s work to four days of
actual programs from the playgrounds. The “Play-

RECREATION

time” music broadcasts featured the children of
the east and west grade and junior high bands
and orchestra, another project of the Waterloo
Recreation Commission.

Monday afternoon and Tuesday usually found
Peg visiting the playgrounds where recordings
were to be made that week. She would arrive
about one o’clock on the recording 'afternoon to
get the youngsters ready by two or two-thirty,
when Al would arrive with the machine. In many
cases, the supervisors would bring a portable radio
to the playground the day of the broadcast so that
everyone would get a chance to hear himself.
Rainy days had a habit of coming in twos or
threes, which meant scheduled recordings had to
be juggled, plans shortened, and programs some-
times presented extemporaneously. Good weather,
though, meant that Peg could have two or three
short visits with youngsters on a playground be-
fore their day of actual recording.

A more or less typical “Playtime” program was
the first afternoon recording which came from
Edison Playground. The radio Worker went out
to meet the Edison youngsters for the first time
on Monday. She took with her a few song hit

books and some very general ideas for future pro--

grams—but no particular ideas for Edison. In
chatting with the boys and girls, she discovered
a brother and sister who teamed up to play the
guitar and mandolin, two clarinet players, two tiny
Cz'echoslovakian youngsters, and four girls who
formed a quartette after a few tries at the songs
in the song book. With that amount of individual
talent to start, the radio worker suggested various
themes, and the group decided upon one. The
songs they liked suggested various countries, so
the theme became a trip around the world.

While talking about the countries that could be
included in the program, one young fellow sug-
gested a game he liked to play—the alphabet-
country game. This required naming a country
that starts with each letter of the alphabet. This
game somehow became incorporated into the trip
around the world and, in order to weave in the
musical instruments, it was decided that whoever
failed to name a country to fit the letter of the
alphabet would entertain the rest of the group. It
was planned so that the instrumentalists should
miss on their turns and thus have an opportunity
fo perform.

On Thursday of the following week, the Edison
program was broadcast. After the regular “Play-
time” theme and lead-in by the station announcer,
the radio worker’s voice was heard: “Hello, this
is your Playtime Reporter, Peg Boemecke. To-

APRIL 1950

day we’ve brought our tape recorder to Edison
Playground where the supervisors are Jean Wohl-
ers and Paul Knipe. The boys and girls here told
me that they are whizzes in geography—they
study about countries for nine school months and
then take the most exciting imaginary trips dur-
ing the three summer months. It seems that they
have a trip planned for today and all ‘Playtime’
listeners get to go along. So—here’s our ticket
taker, conductor, navigator and all-around man——
Gilbert Schwab from Edison. Okay, take over.”

Then Gilbert, a young fellow from the play-
ground, took over and told that the gang was in
Europe. The whole group, chugging together,
produced a train engine effect, and an expert p0p
bottle blower made the train whistle sounds. The
quartette proceeded through Switzerland, Hol-
land, and Ireland with “Toolie Doolie Oolie,” “In
An Old Dutch Garden,” and “My Wild Irish
Rose.” Next, someone suggested the alphabet-
country game which brought in four short instru-
mental numbers. Then the whole group traveled
way down to Africa in the deep, deep jungle by
means of the “Bongo, Bongo, Bongo, I Don’t
Wanna Leave the Congo” song, with chest-pound-
ing Tarzan calls as sound effects. The travel cara-'
van moved to the United States for big city life
and Wild West songs and jokes. Finally, the
imaginary journey stopped at Edison Playground
for a short chat with the two supervisors and an
announcement of the youngsters on the program.

Other playgrounds were short on musical tal-
ent so preferred storytelling, skits, readings,
quizzes, information programs, round table dis-
cussions, choral speaking numbers, singing games
and their explanations, sports programs,“ and
straight interviews.

Two highlights of the summer series were
broadcasts made in a downtown hotel before
groups of Iowa Public Service personnel. The
two programs brought together youngsters from
five or six playgrounds and gave them the oppor-
tunity to combirie talents. The summer’s play-
ground finale—the festival of music and lights—
was broadcast as a special hour-long program.

A third special show was a broadcast made at
the request of the Reddy Kilowatt organization to
be used in the various district oches to demon-
strate cooperation with local public service groups.
All in all, the summer’s radio afiiliation was a fine
opportunity to bring the work of the recreation
commission before the tax-paying public. But,
most of all, it gave V‘Vaterloo’s young people a
chance to gain experience by working together
through the medium of radio.

13

ENERALITIES are well enough in their own
G way, but perhaps the story behind the Oak
Park playgrounds in Illinois is best told in terms
of peOple. For this reason, we have chosen several
of our boys and girls to illustrate the many-
sidedness of play.

0 A boy from Eugene Field. Winning the play-
grounds’ contest for the best made, self-propelling
model plane, he was taken to Atlantic City as an
entrant in a competition. When the contestants
were supposed to gather at Steel Pier for a re—
hearsal, this boy was miss-
ing. Next day he turned up,
with this remark: “I knew
my plane had no chance
against those other boys’, so
I sat up all night and made
another.” He won first place
in the international contest
. . . the initiative in play.

0 A family of talented
young acrobats from Eu-
gene Field. The oldest of
the live is a boy, so is the
youngest; there are three girls in-between. From
a cooperative youngster, the eldest boy suddenly
turned unmanageable; he mistreated the younger
children, fell behind in his school work. His
mother took him to a well-known psychiatrist,
who asked him one question: “What about your
play, Bobby?” This was a case of jealousy; it was
treated as such—through play. Today, Bobby is
his old self . . . the scientific side of play.

0 A girl from Stevenson. An awkward, un-
attractive and unhappy child, her mother entered
her in a dancing class as a last resort. Recently
she was offered the management of a dancing
school . . . the development of assurance and self-
conjidence through play. '

o A girl from Carroll. The instructor per-
suaded her to take part in a play. From then on
she worked for some role in every major per-
formance. Graduating from high school, she
earned enough money to pay her own and her
mother’s fare, and went to Hollywood. She
knocked at studio doors; told them she had re—
ceived her dramatics training on the Oak Park
playgrounds. Unfortunately, they had never heard
of them, but Marie entered an actor’s school. Soon

14

Actual case histories point up some of those
qualities developed through supervised play.

after, she played the leading role in one of its plays
and received three offers from movie studios. To-
day she has taken part in some sixty movies and
is earning a large salary . . . the ability of play to
develop into a vocation.

o A boy from Hans Andersen. To everyone’s
amusement, he refused to take part in any activity
except horseshoe pitching. He became the na-
tional horseshoe champion . . . the persistency of
play.

0 A boy from Barrie. Recently from Denmark,

{

Willlllrw

he Spoke English clumsily at first. Poor, shy and
backward, he became interested in wood carving.
A few years ago he won the national scrap lum—
ber contest sponsored by the United States Gov—
ernment. He went to Washington, had his picture

’taken standing next to the president . . . the re-

sourcefulness of play.

0 A girl in dramatics. After a movie had been
made, the instructor praised her for the real tears
she had shed in her part. The girl replied, “A
wasp was biting me, but I couldn’t spoil the scene,
so I just sat there and let it bite.” . . . the courage
of Play- .

o A Marine stationed in Okinawa during the
war. A widower with a small son, he wrote his
mother: “I want Jimmy entertained at the pre-
school at Field. I lie here in this foxhole and I
keep thinking of all the things I learned on that
playground.” . . . the a§ection of people toward
play. ' '

o A badly handicapped boy at Field. For a
year he could not be persuaded to take part in any
of the program. Finally he made a toy boat. To-
day he is an instructor in mechanics at a university
. . . the rehabilitation of play.

RECREATION

PLAYING SAFE

Presented by Stephen H.
Mahoney at the Massa-
chusetts Safety Confer-
ence in Boston, 1949.

EVERY PERSON who has even a slight knowledge
of children will agree that there is no sphere
of a child’s activity into which he injects himself
with more intensity and abandon than the period
of his. fun or play. For play is the one thing, that
a child wants to do most at the time he is doing it.

And since he is giving every bit of himself toe t

the excitement of the game or'activity in which
he is participating, hegis‘ obliviousrtoi'everything
else. That “everything else,” ofrcourse, includes
any idea ofhdanger or potential danger either to
himself or toxhis playmates. " _

It is for this reason that those responsible fOr
play programs in each community must so organ-
iz"e their playground systems that maximum effort
to effect safety and prevent serious accidents will

result. This effort should begin at the top—that is '

in the organization of the system—so that the
idea of safety in play may permeate the entire staff
and the patrons of the play units. No staff meet-
ings or institutes should be conducted preparatory
to the playground season without including a gen-
erous session devoted to safety. In this connec—
tion, it is recommended that the local Red Cross
chapter be asked to assign a competent instructor
from its safety services division to give a minimum

 

Author 1': mperimendent of recreation, Cambridge.

APRIL 1950

 

Youngsters risk injury playing in the street.
Playgrounds must also eliminate hazards.

safety course to the playground staff.

Every play leader or supervisor should receive
instruction in first aid from a qualified instructor.
Then, if minor or even major accidents occur,
there will be assurance that proper initial treat-
ment has been given to the victim, and that the
parents or guardians who have entrusted their
youngsters to the care of the leaders will feel
justified in their trust.

The competent play leader must always be alert
to his responsibilities. He or she must so conduct
the activities of the playground that the children
who frequent that unit may secure those results
which are derived from a well-conducted play pro-
gram, results which will benefit their health, stim-
ulate their mental powers, contribute to the forma-

,tion of their character, and improve their relations
' with other individuals as members of society. In

addition, since children play so enthusiastically
and spontaneously that they are prone to disregard
the possibility of accidents, the leader has this
added responsibility. He must safeguard these
youthful patrons of his play unit against the physi-
cal dangers which beset them while they are earn-
estly engaged in competition with their mates or
gleefully enjoying the use of the playground ap—

paratus.
This responsibility of the playground leader

1i

‘ .

should be assumed in a dual way: I) by diligent
attention to the supervision of the grounds, the
apparatus and the activities; 2) by educating the
children themselves to use care and discretion
while at play.

The most effective step toward having a safe
playground is to have a well—organized play-
ground. This does not imply that the organiza-
tion should be so rigid that the very end of play
—freedom of action—should be defeated. On the
other hand, it is essential that the children should
learn from the time of their initial contact with
the playground that rules of conduct must be
observed both for their own protection and for
the safety of others.

An efficient method of organization from the
standpoint of safety is the delegation of supervi-
sion of sections of the playground to chosen lead-
ers. -Thus, while the leader of the ground is in
general charge, a trusted boy or girl can be as-
signed to supervise swings or slides, to keep a
watchful eye on the games of smaller children, to
assume charge of the wading pool or the sandbox,
or to accept other similar reSponsibilities. Experi—
ence has shown that excellent results can be ob-
tained by this delegation of authority if the chil-
dren who are given these duties are organized
into a safety patrol (similar to the junior patrol
in the school organization), and if membership
in the patrol is made distinctive by selection on
the basis of merit. The distinction can be further
manifested by providing the members of the safety
patrol with arm bands or other insignia of au-.
thority.

Segregation: The proper segregation of activ—
ities on a playground will greatly reduce the pos-
sibility of accidents. An instructor should exercise
utmost care in keeping smaller children as far
away as possible from the areas where the more
active play of larger groups is in progress. Like—
wise, ball playing or any game which may involve
a ball being hit or thrown in the direction of the
small children’s section should be prohibited. Such
activities as roller skating and bicycle riding
should not be permitted on crowded playgrounds
except where areas have been provided for this
purpose. .

Types of Play: The playground worker should
exercise judgment in the selection of activities.
For example, games which are designed for par-
ticipation by larger children should not be in-
dulged in by those whose physique or stamina is
not suited to such games. Strenuous games
should not be played immediately after the lunch
period, nor should children be permitted to play

16

for long periods in the sun on excessively warm
summer days.

Teaching Safety: Tlie 'second objective—that
of educating the children to use care and discre-
tion—can be attained in a variety of ways. In
fact, the entire playground and its activities can
be utilized for this purpose. The playground bul-
letin board may be used effectively in the promo—
tion of safety. NeWSpaper clippings which re-
port accidents involving children at play may be
posted. A bulletin with the safety record of that
particular playground—such as “(Number) acci-
dents have occurred on this playground this sea-
son” can be a stimulus to maintaining a good
safety record. Safety posters can become projects
of the art class; safety songs, either those which
are obtainable from safety organizations or from
other sources, or parodies on well-known popular
songs, are always a pleasurable and educational
asset to the play program, especially during peri-
ods of inclement weather or when passive types
of play are in order. There are also available many
short plays which dramatize the need for safety
precaution; and the storytelling hour can be used
to good advantage by the inclusion of subjects
which are applicable. Safety films may be shown
for the purpose also.

When Accidents Occur: Of course, deSpite
all precautions, accidents will sometimes occur.
When they do, the person in charge of the play-
ground must then assume the responsibility of
proper care for the injured child. At such times,
too, the efficiency of the playground system and
its employees are on trial. Parents will particu-
larly udge the playground by the method in which
their children are cared for under such circum-
stances. Accordingly, the following specific sug-
gestions are made for the guidance of leaders:

Know the procedure of your department in the
case of an accident—eg, should serious cases be
sent to a local doctor or to the municipal hospital?

Know where and how to summon an ambulance,
if necessary.

Be familiar with the treatment of simple in-
juries. '1

Have a first—aid kit ready for emergencies.

Escort the injured child home, if possible, or
send some reSponsible person to represent you.

Draw up a list of common playground accidents
and the methods by which they may be prevented
or minimized.

The National Recreation Arrocz'atz'on bar public/yeti
reeeml excellent bulletz'm on safety in your program.
Send for tbz'r materiel today.

RECREATION

' Notes From a Playground Institute

The following report was prepared by a N utional Recreation Association staf]
worker after conducting a summer playground institute in the spring of
1949. that she has suggested for one city may have application for others.

OST IMPRESSIVE to me was the group’s inter-
Mest in dancing. With the prOper equipment, I
believe that this would easily become one of the
most popular activities on the playground and give
great variety and richness to the program. I would
recommend that, when the budget permits, each
playground have a good, sturdy victrola with a set
of folk dance and square dance records.

In my playground experience, we danced every

morning and afternoon, and one night a week held )9.

a folk dance festival_in the city park ,for  chil-
dren from all over town. . There were always“g
crowds of adults“’wh0 came to watch; We felt that
the festivals‘were one 6f13urrrhost effectiveidemon-
strations_to the public. 0 

The group, as-a whole,»was eager fornew infor¥ .
mation andnknowledge. The girls were particu}. '

I!“

larly interested in singing games,. Lchecked the

public library, and:found lit-he section of books ,on

games and folk dancing quite small. The mimeoi .

graphed syllabus for each leader helps, but-islnot
adequate. i ‘-

Each playground should have a set of inexpen-
sive booklets ‘on'. games, dances, crafts, and such
special activities as marbles, jackstones and hop-
scotch.* These w0uld‘be for the leader’s use-and
he would be responsible for returning them in good
condition at the end of the} summer. The mime-
ographed bulletins would be helpful 'to supplement
this basic library with material it does not include.

There was real interest in stories and a good
response to “playing out” a story, which we did
one day. Here, again, the leaders could be helped
greatly with ready reference material. In Albany,
New York, the public library has supplied each
playground ‘with a set of ten books— put up in
special boxes and changed every ten days or two
weeks. The books should be chosen for “telling”
qualities of the stories—not for children’s reading
primarily. There might be picture books for the
little tots, but there should also be stories for the
middle-age boys and girls. With the books on
hand, older boys and girls and parents could be
used more easily to conduct a story hour while the

 

‘Have you 'a lisringl of the National Recreation Association's
published matcnals?— .

APRIL 1950

v”

leader is busy with other things.

Certain things can be done to strengthen a crafts
program. I would recommend that each play-
ground have a set of tools and necessary equip—
ment, and that more of the handcraft budget be
spent for non-expendable supplies. There should
be enough suppliesrior "dismonstration purposes,
but leaders should‘be helped to discover projects
which the children can." make from materials

it. brought. homeor frci'm scrap materials that can

be.-b'_ought for a few pennies. ’
*It. has been a long “timegsinc‘e I’"have had first-

 t-han‘die‘xperienlc’e with'playgrou‘ndtci'afts, but I can

0 .4' i . a: o f.“ ”
mention ‘a. few prOJects which were successful and
a r.“ r ug. u» . .-

', i. a“ a,cost“l'ittle$.orif‘nodiingz" stocking dolls; cases made
" rfroni‘wjars’ decorated with“ paper mosaic designs;

boxesphcit -dish mats; purses woven from stocking
rounds; .hooked cushion tops and mats made of
burlap and stocking, rounds; --scdoters and” push-
mobiles; beach bags from old inner tubes _; purses
,and belts from leather scraps, tooled with filed
nail heads; belts of braided twine ; purses from old
-felt hats;,costumes pf crepe paper, tarleton (If

- we made one for a special occasion, parents were

usually so eager to have their children take part,

‘ they would provide fifteen or twenty cents toward

the child’s costume.) ; decorative lapel pins of wood
scraps, beads and buttons; buttons of acorns and
other shells; purses of raffia, wood or scrim.

In talking with the group, I felt that they needed
continued help and interpretation of the “func-
tion” of the playground leader. They were open-
minded, but some had difficulty in seeing how
they could get activities going without being in
active control.

There was also a little resistance to the idea
that a boy interested in baseball might just be
playing it because something else was not being
offered. By a fortunate accident, we had a little
demonstration at one of the playgrounds. The
men directors wanted to know how the women had
gotten the little bandits to play circle games.

Giving leaders some of the additional tools men-
tioned here will help them, through their own ex—
perience, to discover ways of getting variety into
their program.

 

A ringmasler puts playgrounders through their paces.

ARADE! Animals! Clowns! Cowboys! In-

dians! Freaks! Calliope!

The circus is over, but the memory lingers
on. Yes, the memory does linger on in the minds
of thousands of youngsters and adults of the
“Atomic City,” Oak Ridge, Tennessee, for on
August tenth a” mammoth circus climaxed the
summer’s playground activities.

General plans for the circus were formulated
early in May by the recreation department super-
visory staff, before the summer playgrounds were
open. At the second weekly staff meeting of the
summer staff, the plans were discussed. It was
decided that each playground would be responsi-
ble for one feature act and one clown act. A num-
ber of suggested acts were presented and each
playground staff selected one which it felt would
be suitable for its particular playground group.

The entire production was under the super-
vision of Miss Ruth Schnepel, arts and crafts
supervisor, and Miss Ruth Jewell, summer play-
ground supervisor. Miss Schnepel was primarily
responsible for costuming, backdrops and all other
art work, while Miss Jewell was responsible for
the “acts,” lighting, the parade, and the one hun-
dred and one other details connected with such a
circus. These two leaders coordinated the work
of nine playgrounds through several weeks of

 

Mir: Sim: is director of Elm Grove Playground and
Mix: Kirkland :apereixer playground: of Oak Ridge.

18

a WM

consultation, guidance and Operation. Periodic
meetings were held by staff members to dis-
cuss problems and to check the progress of each
of the various phases.

The publicity campaign started two weeks prior
to thehcircus with a playground poster contest.
The posters submitted were then collected and dis-
played in business establishments throughout the
city. The local radio station, WATO, gave peri—
odic plugs. The daily paper, The Oak Ridger, car-
ried front page features for days before the pro-
duction. An attractive trailer calliOpe was secured
and toured the city the day of the circus, playing
circus music and carrying advertising signs.

August tenth dawned with a cloudless sky—no
rain. Playground leaders breathed a sigh of thanks
as they awoke to the busiest day of the season.
Early in the evening strange people, animals,
freaks and clowns were seen moving through the
streets of Oak Ridge to the parking lot where the
parade was being assembled. In one corner of the
lot, members of the Community Playhouse
changed tan-faced boys and girls into chalk-white,
red—nosed clowns and horrible freaks. Cowboys
and Indians went riding swiftly by on their ponies,
headed for their spot in the line of march. Ele-
phants danced, ponies pranced, seals barked, and
caged lions roared as trainers and attendants
steered them into position for the parade. At
seven p.m., the parade marshal’s whistle sounded.
Led by a police car, color guard, and the ringmas-
ter, the boys and girls pulled out of the parking
lot and into their line of march.

The performers paraded a half mile through
town and in front of the stands at Blankenship
Field, where hundreds of Spectators waited.
Scenery consisted of seven backdrops, eight-by-
ten feet, constructed and painted by teen-agers.
Three of the drops, featuring a full-length clown,
a lion and a giraffe, were placed at the back of the
ring. Two drops were placed at either side to form
the wings and to serve as entrances and exits. The
forty-foot ring was outlined with four Hoodlights,

RECREATION

Eileen Sims and Doreen Kirkland

-gmzéeBIG TOP

nine spotlights and four sets of border lights. A
member of the Community Playhouse operated the
switchboard controlling the lights.

The Municipal Band struck a circus tone as the
children entered the field. The band, directed by
C. E. Newlon, presented a short concert as the
performers were being directed to their desig-
nated places, and also supplied the music for some
of the acts, while recordings wefe used for others.

Since the playgrounds had no opportunity for
rehearsals with each other, timing and coordina-
tion were effected by proper organization. The
first three acts moved behind the scenes, ready to
go on, and the remaining acts were seated to the
left of the ring where they could see the circus.
As each act ended, the performers exited right and
seated themselves outside of the ring on that side.
The next act went into the ring, using the left
entrance and, at the same time, a new act moved
backstage from the left. Clowns performed during
this period to detract attention from the movement.
Using this procedure, the youngsters of each play-
ground saw the greater part of the circus and
there were three acts ready to go on at all times.

No act lasted longer than ten minutes. The
clown acts, which were performed -while rousta-
bouts were setting up props between acts, lasted
approximately two minutes. The ringmaster, Bob
Barron, a talented fifteen-year-old high school boy,
was greatly responsible for the success of the Cir—-
cus with his constant and free flowing ad libbing.
After a catchy spiel to introduce the circus, Bob
brought the first act into the ring. This was a
pony and monkey dance, complete with trainers.
Next a group of tumblers in blue and white cos-
tumes made their entrance through the mouth of
a huge paper clown. The act consisted of simple
tumbling and pyramid building.

George Ridenour, Jr., aged twelve, a pantomime
artist, brought down the house with his act. He
pantomimed the song, “The Man on the Flying

Trapeze,” and for his encore, “A Good Man Is
Hard to Find.”

APRIL 1950

The caged wild animals appeared next. The
roaring, growling beasts were freed from their
cages and put through their paces by a trainer,
armed with chair and whip.

The specialty act followed in which the strong
man—a five-year-old boy, dressed in a leopard
skin—appeared and came to a stop in the center
of the ring to flex his muscles before lifting the
heavy  weights. A tumbler, a tight-rope walk-
er, and boys doing a Hawaiian dance completed
the act.

From the hills of Tennessee, McCoy and Hat-
field clans performed to the music of “Feudin’,
Fussin’ and Fightin’.” They did a square dance,
clog dance and re-enacted the feud.

The birds came next and “funnier and stranger
birds never could be found in deepest Africa,
Siberia or Knoxville,” announced the ringmaster.
A mock football game was staged by bats, par-
rots, storks, an ostrich and a penquin. Four huge
grey elephants, with trainers and attendants, lum-
bered in and performed a dance; and following this
act, a host of freaks performed singly, in pairs,
and in whole family groups. These included the
fat family, snake charmer, sword swallower, sia-
mese twins, the three-faced woman, the centaur
with trainer and rider, the midget family, and even
the wild men dragged in their women—dressed
in snow leopard sarongs—to do an original dance.

The Wild West show climaxed the circus. Forty
boys and girls, ranging from six to ten years of
age and dressed as cowboys, cowgirls and Indians,
dashed into the ring riding broomstick horses.
The cowboys and cowgirls left the ring while the
Indians did a war dance. Then the covered wagon
train entered and prepared to bed down for the
night around the campfire. As the songs and fire
died out, a sneak Indian attack was staged. Tired
cowpokes came to life with blazing cap pistols, but
they would have been overpowered if the cavalry
had not been on duty behind the scenes and dashed
in to save the day. So—-—a fitting climax to a happy
and successful circus.

19

@066, m We; TUTLOT

OR A NICKEL a day, energetic parents in a De—
Ftroit, Michigan, community—with the coopera-
tion of -city facilities and businessmen—provided
and adequately supervised an eight-week recrea-
tion program in the summer of 1948 for their
three-to-eight-year-old boys and girls. And the
five cents paid for serving fruit juice twice a day
to each child!

The site of this project was Detroit’s automobile
belt, an area characterized by high juvenile delin-
quency rates, broken homes and cultural conflict.
In this area neighbors decided to “do something”
for the children, and the result was the Beulah
Walsh Dziadula Totlot.

This project essentially grew out of the need
for supervised recreation for children during the
summer months when kindergartens are not in
operation. In Detroit, most of the totlots have
been developed since 1940, and about half of them
are sponsored by the city.

In the “Proposed System of Recreational Facili-
ties, City of Detroit Master Plan, August 1946,”
playlots are described:

“Designed for small children ranging from one

to eight years old, playlots are substitutes for back-
yards. Clearly, there is urgent need for them in
congested sections and in apartment areas where
play space usually is so limited that tiny tots are
denied the advantage of playing outdoors in the
sunshine . . .
i “Equipment includes sandboxes, slides, teeters,
swings, spray pools, blocks, and so on. A concrete
walk, where active children may ride tricycles and
other wheeled toys, separates a grass. plot from the
apparatus area.

“Since playlots may be needed in great num-
bers, the'Plan Commission advocates that they be
developed and maintained through private initia-

A: atrirtcmt director of tbe totlot, Mrs. Nort/awood
took part in its growth from the planning stages.

20

Blanche W. Northwood

tive as adjuncts to apartment developments or as
cooperative neighborhood projects.”

The usual charges for the care of children on
privately-operated Detroit totlots range from three
to five dollars a week. For working class families,
with an average weekly income of $57.44,* this is
prohibitive, and it is in this respect that the Dzia-
dula Totlot is unique. Through the cooperation of
many members of the community, and shared re-
sponsibility, the project was made possible at a
negligible fee, for even the lowest income earners.

After many months of meetings among parent-
teacher groups, women’s clubs, and neighbors in
their homes, organization was culminated in an
open-air community rally. The totlot came into
existence, named in honor of the woman who the
community felt had contributed most. Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Dziadula, parents of two young boys,
had been neighborhood leaders for a period of
years. Mrs. Dziadula, tireless recreation chair-
man of the Southeastern Community Council, was
especially interested in teen-agers and pre-school
children.

Although most of the neighbors were strangers-
at first they worked harmoniously together. Dur—
ing the lifetime of the totlot they dealt with many
problems, and their day-to-day solutions, which
evolved during the operation of the experiment,
are possible guideposts for future totlot planners.

Skeleton Organization—Mrs. Dziadula, acting
chairman, suggested a temporary slate of oflicers
to be ratified by the group. Originally, this slate
included a president, three vice-presidents, a ways
and means committee, a secretary-treasurer, and a
building and construction committee. The three
vice-presidents were to supervise three different
age groups of children—three to five, five to seven,
seven and over. This plan, patterned after the
Creary Totlot—one of the earliest similar projects
——did not prove feasible here because of a lack of

 

‘Handbook of Labor Statistics, 1947.

RECREATION

personnel to handle the separate groups. Instead,
all age groups came at all hours of the day. For
each adult ofhcer, a corresponding junior officer
was appointed.

Site —— After long negotiations between the
Southeastern Community Council and the city
police department, permission was granted for the
temporary use of an empty lot in the neighbor-
hood, with the understanding that no buildings be
erected on the property. The square field, owned
by the city, was earmarked for a police auto pound
and precinct structure. It was pointed out that
the use of the field for recreation purposes might
well obviate the' need for an additional police pre-
cinct by tending to reduce neighborhood juvenile
delinquency.

Financing—It was agreed that the totlot would'
not be operated for profit, but for the benefit of the
low-income families in the neighborhood, at little,»
or no cost to them. Consequently,‘ parents were
required to pay only twenty-five cents a week per

.'

 

child. This money was used to purchase fruit

juice, to beisrerved twice daily. 0
A budget drawn up in the beginning might have

simplified matters. In the course of the summer,

over $700 was raised to finance the Operation _of_’_
the lot. The first year’s. expenditures included

many initial outlays not required again.

Some of the ways of raising funds were:

I. Personal solicitation from neighbors and mer-
chants. Cash was collected, in addition to new and
secondhand merchandise. A more tightly organ-
ized campaign would have produced more lucrai
tive results. I

2. A plea for funds to a local veteran’s organiza-
tion.  

3. Some favorable newspaper publicity, gaining:
unsolicited donations. ' '

‘1.

APRIL '1950

4. A prominent citizen, interested in combatting
juvenile delinquency, provided $200 to erase end-
of-the-season debts, and thus the project wound
up in the black.

5. Direct appeal letters to chain store managers.

Personnel—Supervision for the lot was en-
trusted to paid directors only—one on a full-
time basis and the other a part-time worker. Also
helping were parents and friends, some teen-agers,
and several ten-to-twelve-year-old children who,
as safety patrols, helped the very little children
cross the streets. The Department of Public \Vel-
fare loaned the services of a capable area social
worker, her office and telephone:

No one taking any responsibility for the lot had
any prior experience with this type of project.
Thedirector, a responsible teen-ager, had distin-
guished herself with two successful summers of
day camping, taught Sunday School and, with
others, through the Junior Council, had lobbied
for and won fiee swimming for children at two
city parks, establishing a 'new precedent. The as-
sistant director: more mature in years and experi-
ence, was currently attending university summer
school, majoring in coiilmunity recreation leader-
ship. ' P '

.I  The application for registration of the children

stated that the parents were expected to spend at
least one day a week doing volunteer work on the
lot during the eight weeks of operation. The pen-
alty for°non3participation by the parents-"removal
of the child from use of the lot—was never en-
forced even though it was threatened. Keeping a
full staff of volunteers on hand at all times was
not an easy task. Consequently, five or six mothers
and fathers did more than their share.

During the first and second weeks of operation,
many neighborhood' teen-agers came to the lot.
They watched children on theh apparatus, helped
repair toys, and ’assisted with ‘manual and clean-up
jobs. Howeverfas the hot weather came along,
swimming 'and' picnics. elsewhere beckoned, and

c then their help was Only Occasional.

On the whole, volunteer participation seemed
geared to these factors—intensity of interest, rec—
ognition received or personal satisfaction.
‘.Eqi1iprrient aild Construction—Immediate
equipment needs were a large tent to serve as a
shelter and storage space for records and materials,
aridfencing for an enclosure, with a locked gate.
The tent was bought from an Army surplus store,
and all of the fencing material was secondhand.
Paint for the fence and lumber for the children’s
work benches and tables were donated. Fathers
and friends hammered and sawed away in odd

21

hours, on Sundays and even on their vacations in
order to have the totlot ready for use as early as
possible.

The Department of Parks and Recreation in—
stalled four sturdy swings and a slide, and loaned
a storage box. Other donations and loaned items
included two sandboxes and sand, phonographs
and records, construction paper, crayons, books,
games, blackboard, chalk, scooters, rocking horse,
doll cradles, buggies, a desk and a thermos jug.

Handcraft materials always seemed short, par-
ticularly scissors, paste, paint and clay, for chil-
dren often asked “to make things.” Construction
projects were especially needed on the rainy and
unusually hot days.

Health and Safety—Health and safety were of
major concern, and presented many problems.
The absence of on-the—spot lavatory facilities re-
quired a solution. A neighbor agreed to let the
children use the facilities in her home for a nom—
inal fee. Twice a day at regular hours, and at any
other time necessary, the children were escorted
across the street to her home.

Rest periods twice a day were encouraged, but
presented other difficulties. The children brought
a rag rug, blanket or large towel to spread on the
ground inside the tent for their naps. The tent
had no built-in flooring so heavy rains caused
damp grounds. As a result, naps often had to be
foregone. Also, water facilities were inadequate.
A gallon thermos jug had to be refilled many times
during the day. i

Pre-school children were required to furnish the
regulation doctor’s certificate. In about 250 chil-
dren-play—hours on the lot, the only medical sup-
plies used were two dozen Band-Aids and less
than an ounce of merthiolate. The City Board of
Health furnished chest x-rays and health exam-
inations for the workers.

Program—Although a variety of ideas were
expressed by the parents as to what constituted
proper program planning, it was mainly left to the
directors who, in turn, were guided by the sugges-
tions of the children.

Only matters pertaining to safety and health
were mandatory. Otherwise, the children were
given wide freedom of choice of activities with no
rigid scheduling. In addition to the use of the
outdoor apparatus and equipment, the children
could take part in storytelling, singing, quiet
games, craft projects or could listen to phonograph
records inside the tent. About once a week one
of the streets was blocked 0E and they enjoyed a
street shower from the fire hydrant.

Among the highlights of the summer’s program

22

were the following:

I. Police clown entertainment—a volunteer per-
formance by off-duty city policemen.

2. Children’s dress-up parade and picnic lunch.

3. Safety instructions at elementary level by
a police traffic officer who used entertaining flash
cards.

4. Occasional ice cream and cake birthday par-
ties for all the children, paid for by’various par-
ents.

Licensing—Applications for city and state li—
censes were filed at once with the City Council
and State Department of Social Welfare. Since
no precedent existed for this kind of project at
city or state level, no action was taken other than
personal visits of inspection by authorities.

Record Keeping—_Attendance cards were
mimeographed through the courtesy of a nearby
high school shop. On the cards, attendance was
carefully checked as the children left at noon and
at the close of each day. Other pertinent data in-
cluded child’s name, address, sex and age; par-
ent’s name, address, phone number; physician’s
name and phone number. On the opposite side of
the card directors reported, for confidential use,
their observations of special behavior patterns and
attitudes, as well as any particular skills that the
children displayed.

Public Relations—When the season was about
half over, a mimeographed questionnaire was sent
to the parents, asking for their comments as to the
success of the lot and recommendations for its
improvement. Because of a lively neighborhood
newspaper coverage and a cooperative daily press,
the Beulah Walsh Dziadula Totlot was popularly
launched and a friendly interest was sustained
throughout its operation.

Star—Gazing on the Playgrounds

Under a new plan of extension service launched
by Griffith Park Observatory early in the year, a
traveling telescOpe is visiting the Los Angeles mu-
nicipaliplaygrounds so that youngsters—and adults
—may take a peek at the stars and Open their eyes
to the wonders of the universe. The recreation and
park department is sending the eight-foot long
Brashar telesc0pe, mounted on a truck, to each
playground for a one-night program. Star-gazing
is supplemented by a lantern slide lecture designed
to provide some basic understanding of astronomy.
The entire plan was made possible when Archie
Wade, retired mechanical and electrical engineer,
donated his large refracting telescope to the Ob-
servatory for use in an education program.

RECREATION

‘l twist in“ “mm

HE FOLLOWING is an outline of a special event
Tthat was tried at the city parks of Amarillo,
Texas, last year. It was received with more enthu-
siasm than anything we had attempted in recent
years. The Tagged Fish Rodeo attracted more
than 500 participants from seven playgrounds,
and the over-all expense totalled just fifteen dol—
lars. Other communities that are looking for

something different in a special event may find; :‘

that here is the answer. 5.

Arts and Crafts Sessions‘nPlay a Part. ‘

I. Make postei‘s telling about the Tagged :Fishl
Rodeo and post rules.  
2. Using scrap3 soft wood, draw design of a

n“-

hsh. The size andavshape can _‘he planned or left A.

to the children’s imaginatin. 'If it-‘lookfsi‘like a

hsh to the makergtitr is:a fish-s 'N'Cut out fwithtcoping .

saws. ‘. .  ' h  .

3. Color the fish Jwith’icrayons, blending colors
on top and edges, leaving the bottom clear.

4. Attach a wire around the body of the,fish
at the narrowest‘point, making a loop 'of two
inches in diameter that extends straight up when
the fish is lying flat. . '

Children leave the fish at the playground and
leaders make a large clear number on the reverse
side of each fish. Number the hsh consecutively
from one to fifty, or according to the number you
have.

Collect a varied assortment of prizes. These
may be donated by merchants or purchased. Try
to have as varied an array of prizes as possible.
Prepare a list ahead of time, listing the prizes to
be awarded each contestant, according to the num-
ber marked on the fish he catches. Have them
on the spot to give out when the fish is caught.

 

Jack Ham i: director of recreation in Amarillo.

APRIL 1950

 

Jack Hans

 

Rules To Be Posted

1. Each contestant must furnish his own pole,
line and hook. (No sharp hooks are permitted.)
2. Each contestant is entitled to one catch only.
3. Contestants who worked on construction of
fish are entitled to hrst catch. If additional prizes
are available, others may take part.
a 4. All contestants must fish from edge of pool
6r behind the starting line. ’
 __ ‘Dayjo'r the Rodeo
‘ At the time for. thejrodeo to” start, the tagged
fish are placed in'tlie wading pooflTwith the num-
-'hered-side 'hirdden underwater. (On playgrounds

A " aiivhene wading pools are not available, use wash

tubs‘filled with water.) Limit the'number of
fishermen so that there is a fish in the pool for
everyone. Run a second group if you have prizes
available. As a fish is caught, read the number
from the bottom of the fish and award the prize
listed on your award sheet.

Prizes on the List Used in Amarillo

F ishiN umber Awards

I Small sucker

2 ‘ Free ticket to swimming pool
3 Large sucker

4 Balloon

5 Set of jacks

6 Top

7 Free ticket to swimming pool
8 Free ticket to picture show
9 Ice cream cone
10 Small sucker
II Balloon
12 Package of chewing gum
I 3 Candy bar
14 . Free ticket to swimming, pool

23

_. _ o _ r ‘
_-..-:-: ' '1 ‘,'x-......".
.0
his, I

4‘

Land of Make-Believe is responsible for many fun-filled hours.

N OWADAYS, if you’re up-to-date, your playground
is not only enlarging its function as a play center
for children, but is developing into a leisure-time
gathering place for adults as well. No longer do
parents, aunts and grandmas come only as visitors
and spectators. They now take part in activities
of their own. Mothers bring their sewing or knit-’
ting and, before they know it, they have formed
a sewing club; neighbors may start throwing
quoits and end up with a tournament; grand-
fathers know that their checker playing cronies
will be meeting in that shaded corner beneath the
trees. Housewives, business men and women, re-
cent school or college graduates——-all are finding
congenial recreation opportunities. Thus do play—
grounds build friendships and understanding; thus
is the life of their community enriched.

 

Age-old game. Juvenile athletes get
into the spirit early. Good sportsman-
ship is emphasized from the very start.

 

Sports on playgrounds often produce
stars; numerous tournaments are held.

Favorite games appeal to elders, often lead

to tournaments.

They enjoy meeting friends.

  

  
 
 

 

Childrcn’s choruses and other musical
groups lead to adult societies, light
opera clubs, choral and other groups.

 

Children learn courtesy, fair play,
dcmocracy of spirit, good citizenship.

Hcrc, an casily-movcd stage is used
throughout community puppet shows.

Kindness to animals and conservation
are learned through nature programs.

Such handcraft groups are centers of
absorbed interest. Many highly cred-
itable pieces of work are turned out.

 

The chapter concluded in RECREATION this
month is reprinted from Mr. Sorenson’s new

book —— The Art of Board Membershipl‘.’

FUNCTIIJNS AND DUTIES 0F BMRDS

Part1]

To Control Operating Budget, the Financial
Plan, and the Insurance Program

NB OF THE large responsibilities of the board
0 is to make certain that agency finances are
properly administered. This involves seeing that
sufficient revenue is obtained, that funds are Spent
without waste, and that accounting and auditing
are efficient.

Income—Before the days of community chests,
when raising money was a major activity of all
voluntary boards, affluent people were required for
board membership. While joint financing has
changed this for many organizations, fund—raising
is still a very important responsibility of boards of
voluntary agencies. In 1948, the City Social Serv-
ice Bureau of Los Angeles approved 1,291 solicita-
tions which raised $31,000,000. The community
chest raised $6,361,335 of this in but one of the
campaigns. There are many boards outside of
chest relationships. Those which are members of
chests also continue to carry responsibility for
capital solicitation for facility improvements, for
memberships, camperships, benefits, sales and
overseas projects.

With community chests, the boards have a re-
sponsibility to work as hard as they can in the
mutual campaign for oint funds. While they have
a responsibility to interpret adequately the finan-
cial needs of their agency to the chest budget com-
mittee, board members should recognize the total
community complement of service, and not light
unreasonable battles for their agency when the
money is insufficient to take care of all the agen-
cies.

In periods of rising costs or declining chest sub-
sidies, a board faces a financial stringency. There

 

Mr. Soremon, formei'ly on National Council, YMCA,
1': executive secretary of YMCA in San Francine.

26

ROY SORENSON

are three courses of action:

I. Make all possible and reasonable economies.
Here the board depends upon the creativity of the
executive, who is close to the day-by—day opera--
tions.

2. See that all obtainable moneys are secured.
Fees and charges should be re-examined. Efforts
which do not infringe on federated financing, such
as benefits, sales and membership drives, should be
undertaken.

3. If these steps do not balance the budget, cur-
tail expenses, starting on items which contribute
least to the direct service of the agency’s constitu-
ency.

A fairly common lack of preparation and hon-
esty has been observed in budgets presented to
chests by board members and executives in many
cities. They come in, year after year, threatening
to cut down their programs if they are not granted
their full requests. Yet, when their allotment is
scaled down, their programs go on apparently as
before. There appear to be either limitations in
analyzing costs, a hidden desire to expand, or
careless administration which doesn’t plan to ope
erate at the peak of efficiency. When agencies
mean it, they present facts to support an honest
warning that service must be curtailed if funds are
not fully provided, and they restrict activities when
funds are not provided. Chest Budget Committees
treat these requests more seriously. On the other
hand, there is the faulty preparation by agencies
which try to cooperate. They report that they can
carry the same work with less money, then find
that they cannot. The point here is for honesty
and clear facts to support what can and cannot be
done.

Budgeting—The budget is more than a read-
justed column of figures. It is the most crucial

 

*Published in February by Association Press, New York. 32.00.

RECREATION

part of program planning. Once set up, it is the
master plan for administering the agency. The
steps the board takes in budgeting are as follows:

1. Board members in a small agency, or the
executive and staff in a large one, look ahead to
the coming year and forecast changes in program,
costs and personnel. A list is made of factors to be
planned for in the budget.

2. The budget is prepared by the board itself in
a small agency, by a finance committee in a medi-
um-sized agency, and by the executive and staff
in a large agency. If prepared by the executive,
the budget goes to the finance committee for re-
view and recommendation to the board. In all
cases, the board adopts a budget.

3. A community chest agency submits its budget
to the chest; its board representatives participate
in a hearing; and, after the campaign and chest
board action, the agency is informed concerning
the allocation.

4. Frequently, a budget must be revised to meet
a chest’s allocation. This is done in the same way
the budget was originally prepared.

5. The board then adopts the revised budget.

6. Administration of the budget is then the ex-
ecutive’s responsibility, with board action required
for changes or unusual expenditures.

7. The board receives, reviews, and appraises
periodic reports during the year.

8. At the close of the fiscal year, the board ex-
acts an independent audit of accounts.

Insurance—It is the board’s responsibility to
see that the agency is protected by insurance,
usually against lire, theft, embezzlement, public
liability, and injury, to employees. Retirement,
hospital and group insurance for employees are
also matters for board decision. Because of the
many kinds of policies, the board should have the
advice of one or more insurance counselors, in
order that enough protection, but not too much,
is carried.

An insurance adviser can help select the kind of
'insurance needed and suitable kinds of policies;
select the companies from which to buy; arrange
expiration dates so that premium dates will be
evenly divided; determine the amount of coverage;
make structural changes in buildings to secure
lower rates; change housekeeping methods to ef-
fect lower rates; and develop a program of fire
prevention through good management and watch-
ful attention to hazardous conditions.1

The business and financial affairs of an agency
should not be slighted or exaggerated in impor-

1Scbool: in Small Communities, Seventeenth Yearbook Washing-
ton, D. C., American Association of School Administrators, 1939),
pp. 404 and 405.

APRIL 1950

tance. Enough attention must be given to control
intelligently sound financing, or the agency suffers.
But many boards are inclined to devote too much

time, effort, heat and the like to their finances and
business affairs.

To Care For and Maintain Property

For those agencies which own and operate facili-
ties, the board acts as trustees for the pr0perty,
with a responsibility for maintenance. Neglect
constitutes living off the capital of a previous
period.

Boards should provide for a reasonable main—
tenance budget and for a periodic inspection of
property, in order that the need for repairs will
not go too long undiscovered. The consulting
service of a public—spirited engineer, architect, or
contractor should be enlisted. Funds for renova-
tion and modernization are a board responsibility.

To Be Responsible for Program

Formulation of the service policies and program
of an agency is a cooperative process involving the
board, interested volunteers, the professional staff
and, in many types of agencies, those being served.

In earlier days, the board members of social
service agencies were closer to the actual programs
of the agencies. Frequently, they were co-workers
with the staff. As one pioneer said in the 1880’s:
“The organization was formed so that laymen
might engage in good works directly, rather than
only indirectly through the hiring of paid work-
ers.”
With technical specialization of health, child
care, family service and case work, recreation and
group work, and other professional developments,
the board functions have changed and often are not
clear with regard to program responsibility.

Board members give their time because of faith
in what the agency is doing. The organizational,
financial, personnel, property, and public relations
questions are undertaken to help further this work.
To neglect the program responsibility of the board
is to reduce it to a remote, unsatisfying, and rou-
tine running of a machine.

Equally important is the fact that citizen influ-
ence and control of the actual service policies are
lost when the board neglects its program respon-
sibility.

The program plans of an agency are sounder
when they blend the dreams of the experts and
the realities of the community. The board mem-
bers know better than professional executives what
the community wants and will accept. Executives
who do not take pains to share information about

27

complicated social work practices, on the ground
that volunteer board members lack professional
backgrounds, come to critical hours occasionally.
Then they find that they lack the support of those
on whom they must depend for understanding and
backing.

In program or service matters, as in all other
policy matters, the staff serves as technical ad-
visers. The board takes the responsibility before
the public for its decisions. The staff accepts these
decisions and becomes the agent of the board in
carrying them out.

The responsibilities of board members for pro-
gram or service are:

I. To know the characteristics of a good serv—
ice program of the kind carried on by the agency.
This involves some reading, some conferences, and
conversations with persons informed in the field.
One reason why ineffective executives are fre-
quently retained is because boards do not know
the elements or criteria of a good program in their
type of agency. Board members need to know

enough about the agency’s place in the community

to know what the agency can and cannot do. At
times, new and old board members alike get car-
ried away with the conviction that there is nothing
an agency cannot undertake. They get upset when,
in the cooling of their enthusiasm, they face the
actual facts.

2. To formulate and adopt program policy in
writing. It should declare purpose, define con-
stituency, indicate the scope of the service pro—
gram, and specify program emphases and priori—
ties. .

3. To hold the executive responsible for study-
ing needs in the community and for recommending
changes in program. When evaluations are made
and changes proposed, the board itself must decide
upon their merits, so as to approve, reject, or mod-
ify. This decision cannot be made by perfunctory
approval of staff recommendations. Careful weigh-
'ing of all factors is required.

To Assure Sound Personnel Policies

and Select Staff

Good work can be expected only from a well-
prepared and professionally qualified staff. There—
'fore, the employment of the best people and pro-
vision of conditions conducive to the best work are
important functions of the board.

Personnel problems must not be left to chance
or to decisions based on expediency. They will not
take care of themselves. Only by careful, continu—

ous planning will the agency operate under con—
sistent policies.2

28-

The personnel functions of the board are:

I. To adopt and periodically review a personnel
policy. An agency cannot stand out for social wel-
fare in a community and at the same time deny
sick—leave benefits,.dismiss employees without just
cause or hearings, or practice unjustified salary
discriminations.

2. To create the positions by resolution. In
small agencies, the board should act on all of them;
in large ones, the board should create the major
positions, leaving the minor ones to the executive.

3. To employ staff by resolution. The board
should delegate to the executive the responsibility
for investigating qualifications and recommending
staff and employee appointments. The board exer—
cises the formal employment function. In large
agencies, formal action to employ is. limited to
major positions, and the executive is empow-
ered to fill in vacancies. Frequently, the personnel
policy provides for employment only of certified
people or those who meet certain professional
standards.

4. To authorize and then approve classification
of employees. This is needed in large agencies,
where the number of employees makes grouping by
types of positions essential for salary scales.

5. To act upon salary decisions and schedules.
In small agencies, salaries are reviewed by the
board. In larger agencies, personnel committees
or wage committees periodically review salaries
and recommend changes to the finance committee,
either when the new budget is being set up or at
other periods of the year. In times of rising cost
and stationary subsidies, many boards must decide
this most important question': Shall staff be re-
duced and salaries increased to meet rising costs
of living, or shall all staff be retained and sal-
aries kept stationary? Some boards decide to
keep fewer people and move salaries up because
they believe a voluntary agency performs best by
sacrificing volume and protecting the quality of
the staff. Other boards take a chance on a turn
of fortune before the consequences catch up and
retain full staff with inadequate -salary adjust-
ments. .

6. To provide for retirement of workers. Up
to recent years, many voluntary agencies were'
without retirement provisions. The recent retire-
ment plan, initiated by the Community Chests and
Councils, Incorporated, and accepted by most
local community chest budget committees, has re-
sulted in similar provisions by many other boards.

Whereas the personnel functions listed above

2 School Board: in Action, Twenty-Fourth Yearbook (Washington,
D.  American Association of School Administrators. 1246) .
p. . . .

RECREATION

are those of the board, actual personnel adminis-
tration is the responsibility of the executive. This
division of functions is important. The reasons
for placing full responsibility for personnel admin-
istration upon the executive are readily apparent.
Multiple bosses create chaos. The line of respon-
sibility, down to staff and up to executive, must
be a single one. Staff, then, does not have to
respond to conflicting authorities, and the execu-
tive can fulfill his administrative responsibility.
Also, the many day-by—day situations, which re-
quire, intimate knowledge of the persons and the
work, can only be met intelligently by the person
executiver responsible. In cases where employees
feel that they have a grievance unheeded by the
executive, the right of appeal to the board should
be provided. Only confusion and damaged morale
can result from the board as a whole, the presi—
dent, or individual board members crossing this
line and transgressing in the administration of
personnel.

There are two keys to good personnel adminis-
tration: an intelligent pattern adopted in written
form by the board, and a qualified executive to

apply it.

To Maintain Good Public Relations

How the community regards the agency is cer-
tainly important to the agency’s future. The com-
munity’s continuing confidence and support are
dependent upon a reasonably high regard for the
agency, and upon some information concerning
what it is trying to do and what it actually does.
The board has a great deal to do with public rela-
tions, as do all the volunteers related to the agency.
How the community regards any agency will be
determined:

I. By whether or not it is a good agency. The
total impact on the community is the primary and
powerful public relations determinant. Attempting
to save a poor agency by an elaborate public rela-
tions program is hypocrisy and is doomed to
failure. Publicity tricks cannot substitute for a
good job. The board, by performing creditably
the functions described in this chapter, is thus ful—
filling one of the important functions of public
relations.

2. By the sponsorship and prestige of the board.
The board dignifies and lends importance to the
agency. Sometimes it even makes it fashionable!

The reputation of the board members is a gen-
erally accepted way of guaranteeing to the com-
munity the integrity of the agency. One way a
community judges whether an agency is doing
what it exists for, whether it is really needed, and

APRIL 1950

whether its money is well spent, is on its faith in
the citizens who make up the board.

This fact carries with it a critical obligation. If
board members take too much for granted, get
completely institutionalized, lose their curiosity
by long association, establish too close a friendship
with the executive, lack familiarity with good
standards of work, or in other ways cease to repre-
sent the community objectively, then they fail in
their trusteeship, yet by their sponsorship and
prestige falsely guarantee the effectiveness of the
agency.

3. By the way community relationships are con-
ducted. Contacts with community chest budget
committees, social planning bodies, civic groups,
service clubs, and other such groups determine
many attitudes toward the agency. Board mem-
bers assist in many of these relationships. They
go before budget committees, represent the agency
as members in a social planning body, or meet
with representatives of other groups in behalf of
mutual interests.

In their other community activities, board mem-
bers are in a position to learn of adverse attitudes
which have been created in these relationships, and
should be quick to discern and correct bad han-
dling of situations by board members or staff.

4. By informal interpretation and testimony by
those who know. A starting point for public in-
formation is well-informed board members, vol-

 

unteers, and employees. Dinner conversation in
homes, talk in the clubs, civic groups, women’s
groups, and business circles are invaluable means
of spreading information and confidence. A whis-
pering campaign can be good as well as bad, and
people are impressed when they get the “low-
down” from those on the inside.

5. By organized public relations efforts. Annual
reports and house organs, speeches, formal meet-
ings, press, television and radio releases, and
agency visitation through open houses or “come—
and-see tours” are among the important organized
ways by which an agency interprets itself. In
many large agencies, the board has the advice of
a public relations counsel. It is the function of the
board to review periodically these. organized efforts
and to suggest improvements.

29

6. By how the board decides concrete questions
with public relations implications. Many questions
arise which have far-reaching public relations con-
notations. For example, the use of facilities by an
outside group about which there is divided com—
munity feeling; requests to sponsor jointly or par-
ticipate in various community events; policies in
conduct of a forum; whether to back, oppose or
ignore a legislative issue which affects the agency
or' its pr0gram; and what kind of statement to
issue on a change of policy, controversy involving
the agency, or other matter of public interest aris—
ing within the agency.

The board improves or weakens the public rela-
tions of the agency by the wisdom or indiscretion,
tact or arbitrariness, care or neglect of these mat—
ters, which are susceptible to wide repercussion.

To Appoint, Commission, Supervise and
Receive Reports from Committees

It is the duty of boards to create standing com-
mittees, to appoint committee members upon the
nomination of the board chairman, to issue com-
missions outlining responsibilities and authorities,
to see that they perform their duties, and to re—
ceive their reports. Staff members provide serv-
ices for committees, but it- is the board’s respon-

Let’s Play House

OST LITTLE ten-year-old girls dream of the
day when they will be grownup and have a
house of their own in which they can be the
mother, cook and housekeeper. And, for most of
these girls, dreaming is all that theycan do when
they are ten. But this is not necessarily so for
certain lucky little ladies who are fortunate enough
to live in- an area surrounding one of the three
Smith Memorial Playgrounds and Playhouses in
Philadelphia.
In a system believed to be somewhat unique in
playground setups, the Smith Memorial Houses
have built make-believe villages complete with

houses, stores and banks right in the center of the
recreation grounds.

Each small house has three sides which are col-
lapsible and which are rolled up at the end of the
day.

Each home has a “mother,” usually a girl twelve
or thirteen years of age, who supervises the activi—
ties of several younger children. At the beginning

30

sibility to appoint, define, supervise committees.

By-Laws frequently provide for certain standing
committees, but only in rare cases are duties and
authorities fully prescribed. Some by—laws sketch-
ily outline duties; others do not mention them.

If by-laws are kept simple, detailed committee
duties and authorities are out of place. But if peri-
odic commissions are not issued, defining duties
and setting limits, vagueness and differences in
understanding of committee responsibility and
authority can be expected.

Committees do not fully function if they see
their duties as too limited; yet, if committees act
with too much authority, the board is weakened in
its essential responsibility. Therefore, it is sound
practice to issue commissions when committees are
appointed and to renew them annually thereafter
when committees are reappointed. Annual com-
missions provide occasions to change or clarify
assignments and re-emphasize them for both old
and new members.

It is the job of the board to encourage, strength-
en, and supervise committees. Board members
suggest people and recruit committee members.
They keep informed about committee perform-
ances, requiring regular reports, and they lend a
hand to strengthen them when needed.

Raymond T. Wiley

of the day’s play, the “mothers” go to the bank and
draw out their money. With this they start their
shopping tour, stopping here and there to chat
with a neighbor about the latest happenings.

In the village are a dairy and produce store;
meat market; grocery, fruit, toy, hardware and
drygoods stores; a barbershop and bank. Each
store is run by a boy who sells items that are
cleverly designed to look like the real thing.

The bank has a president. There is a chief of
police and his staff, and a mayor and his council.
All these officials are elected by the children.

One thing amusing to see are the first and sec-
ond grade youngsters, just coming from school,
gleefully joining the village school in order to play
teacher and pupil.

The days on which the village is open are the
days of heaviest enrollment. The Smith centers
have found the village setup very satisfactory, and
the little girls and boys think that there is nothing
like playing at being “grownup”.

RECREATION

DAY CAMPS

and How They [Inmate in PITTSBURGH

IN THE FALL of 1933, a group of citi—
zens met with the bureau of recrea—
tion to discuss the problem of camping
for the children of Pittsburgh. Because
of the depression and the general lack of facilities
for the lower economic level, it was felt that some
sort of camping experience should be made avail-
able to the city’s children. With this thought in
mind, the discussion covered transportation, food,
program, location, personnel, supplies and equip-
ment. It was determined that the program should
be, as nearly as possible, a camping pr0gram con-
fined to daytime activities. This, because it was
felt that a day camping program was the only sat-
isfactory solution under the circumstances. Trans-
portation would be. through the use of streetcars
which could be obtained at a special rate following
the rush hour.in the morning and preceding the
rush hour in the evening. The food to be supplied
would be a well-balanced lunch of either the sand-
wich or cook-out type for the five days of the
week—Monday through Friday. The equipment
necessary for cook-outs would be kept to a mini-
mum in order to encourage the campers’ useéof
those things which were available. "The supplies
for activities largely would be obtained from nat-
ural materials, supplemented by paints, glue, cray—
ons, and so forth, from the recreation supply list.

The selection of children was governed by sev—
eral factors : I) the age, which was seven to ‘twelve
years inclusive; 2) availability of transportation;
and 3) the recommendation of the recreation Cen-
ter or the agency which sponsored the child. For
several years, namely‘from'1934 through 1939,
camps were held at; six parks in the City of Pitts—
burgh, which are now the present sites of Frick

 

APRIL 1950

Park, Riverview Park, Schenley Park, McBride
Park, Highland Park and McKinley Park. The
program was such that the children were kept
away from the main travelled areas in the park
and were taught the basic factors of conservatiOn
in all of their camp program.

Objectives and Purposes of the Day Camp:

We hold to the standards adopted by the Ameri-
can Camping Association as the goal which camp—
ing administrators should reach. These may be
restated many different Ways:

1. To bring the'child into relationship with the

 sky, the earth and the largest space in which we

live.

 To develop an appreciation of the out-of-
doors and all it involves.

3. To offer relaxation from regimented school-
ing, giving the child a feeling of a happy, free and
adventurous experience.

4. To develop a changing association with more
intimate group living. ‘

5. To offer an opportunity to join in and con-
tribute to a plan 'of living for a day or a week.

6. To develop skills, resourcefulness and inter-
ests that have long-time values.

7. To offer a safe and healthful experience,
guided by a counsellor who cares to develop better
attitudes.‘

Preliminary Organization:

1. Food: The contract for day camp lunches
is decided by open bidding and handled by the
City Law Department and the Department of Sup-
plies of the Department of Recreational Activities.

2. Transportation: This item is arranged by the

31

camp director with the chartered division of the
Railways Company. Costs are definitely set on a
man-hour basis by the company. Schedules have
been worked out and have been in effect for sev-
eral years. These trips cover the populous areas
of the city. Six trips per day, going and coming
from three camp locations, are used.
3. Allotment of Campers: This is based on 100
children to each camp for one week. Some agen-
cies can supply the full quota and, in some cases,
several agencies in the same district are grouped
together. The allotment schedule is set up weeks
before camp begins with last season’s results as a
guide. This schedule, containing date of camp
week, name of camp, district to be served, agen-
cies to contribute children, is distributed to all
people concerned. This is the basic work sheet
from which the director organizes camps.

4. Physical Examination Schedule .’ Each Thurs-
day, previous to the week in camp, the new groups
of campers are examined by city doctors as a pre-

caution against contagious diseases. This work
sheet contains date of examination, which camp,
where examination will be held, the time of exam—
ination and agencies involved. The City Health
Department cooperates closely with the day camps
in this work.

5. Forms Necessary: (to conduct a day camp
on such a basis) are:

a. Application blanks for parents’ permission to
go to day camp. '

b: Flyers, used by the agencies to advertise
camps, dates, and so on.

c. Reports on the proposed allotment or sched-
ule of camps and agencies.

(1. Reports on examination places and dates.

e. Medical and record card, used by the doctor,
tilled out by the agency, distributed to the camp
counsellors by the director and records placed
thereon by the counsellor as to interest, improve-
ment, and so forth, of the camper.

f. Streetcar passes are distributed to the agen-
cies for those children who pass the physical and
come within the age limit of seven to twelve years.
The pass shows the name of camper, the camp,
and stops at which he can board the chartered car.

g. Weekly report form for the head counsellor,
for such information as number of boys, number
of girls, color, ages, number of days attended and
the volunteers who aided the camp.

h. Visitation report for the director and assist-
ant for each visit they make to camp.

i. Program form which divides the week into

sessions and should show what the program will
be for each counsellor.

32

j. Form to keep a running count of the attend-
ance in each camp, for each day. This aids the
assistant director in determining the number of
lunches to order for the following day.

These forms are turned out by the typist of the
Bureau of Recreational Activities. The director
begins working on organization and operation in
the month of June for the camp opening the first
week of July.

Staff Organization and Institute:

I. Interviews from eligible civil service lists are
made by the director weeks before camp opens.
These people have taken special camp counsellor
tests. All candidates file a tax form and history
of experience, also the usual personal information.

2. The choice of staff and notification is made
by the director after consultation with the superin-
tendent of recreational activities.

3. A three-day counsellor workshop is held in
one of the city nature museums. Experts from the
city recreation staiic on crafts, nature, storytelling,
the administration of camps, are present to teach
the new counsellors how to go about their duties.
Cook-outs are a part of this experience; also visits
to the three-day camp sites for orientation. As-
signments to camps are made after the administra-
tion has had an opportunity to work with the new
counsellors.

Program of Actual Camp Day:

The total camp is divided into family or tribe
groups of at least five groupings—as we have a
staff of five in each camp. If volunteers are avail-
able, the camp can be divided into smaller family
units. The program itself includes: assembly after
hiking from the streetcar stop; flag salute; sing-
ing; five-minute talk, very general, by the park
naturalist on behavior and park rules in relation
to nature; then a break into groups with coun-
sellors. Each group goes its own way with its
counsellor who may have plans for any of the
following activities: arts and crafts-—mostly using
materials nature has left for us to play with;
hikes—explorations, pot—of—gold hunts, nature
walks, visitations; cook-outs—over trench tires,
twice a week, learning how to build small tires and
to cover them when through; fishing—making
own poles and constructing own tackle; group
eating—sandwich lunch, three days; trips to mu-
seums, stables and observatory; clay modeling—
using clay collected in park.

Special activities also come up from time to
time, such as the safety clown event, at which time
all groups report to a general assembly. Day

RECREATION

camps attempt to have the children carry on their
activities away from the main shelter, each group
having its own base or home or hideaway by itself.
The head counsellor directs from the main shelter,
distributes food from there, and connects the
camp with the outside.

Essential Routine Duties of the Director and
Assistant Director in Running the Camps:

1. Receiving the daily count from each head
counsellor as soon as the group reaches camp.

2.‘ Ordering the lunches for the next day (gen-
erally based on present day’s count of campers).

3. Following-up calls, either by phone or in
person, to the agencies to determine the load for
the coming week. The necessary materials are dis-
tributed to the agencies—such as the schedule,
applications, medical and record card. We must

know the size of the new group to make adjust—F.

ments in staff, lunches, passes, and ;so forth.

3

4. Picking up medical cards on Thursdayswa‘fter' *- ‘

the examination at thegagencies. These are ar-
ranged by the assistzint acgording :to ages, for this

. V ._p . “
a1ds the counsellors 1n grouping. *

5. Meeting with counsellors once each week§24~  '-
on Friday afternoon———to discuss the past week of:
camping and to plan for the next week. fHere is '1
the time for the counsellors to I’lay‘theiréptroubles '

on the table for discussio‘i‘it ; "u-

6. Checking the ‘weeklyurepo'i't dfithe1,camp;aks‘"

against the_ head counsellor’s daily Count.- ,
7. Handling publicity; for all papers, radio, etc.
» 1

8. Handling the many dgtails which help kee
the camps running smoothly and efiiciently. “

9. Distributing supplies as needed. This re-
quires contact with the warehouse and knowledge

*7

o',

of what supplies are carried in stock and what.

material needs special order.

Final Records and Report to the
Superintendent of Recreational Activities:

This detailed material keeps him informed 'me

present operation and guides him as to future
plans concerning the camps. It includes: reports
on each counsellor and on total number of camp-
ers and their age, sex and color; records of the
number of volunteers; total camper days in all
camps; costs of transportation, food, supplies used,
staff salaries; supplies on hand for next season;
comparison study between last season and this
season as to effectiveness of the day camp pro-
gram; average attendance by camp and by week;
names of agencies contributing children to the
camps; recommendations for the coming summer.

APRIL 1950

l
|
l.
n'

' J

t- '“

:HWi'th the Stars . ..

    
 

l

 

With the stars of sports,-modern fea-
. tures *‘of c’onsthruction in the equip-
ment- they use are of the utmost im-

' ,portance. That’s why so many of

them‘use and.recommend Wilson.

‘ 7. The famous Wilson Advisory Staff,
'whose members help design, test

_ and use Wilsoncquipmentis another

reason why so many "outstanding
sports stars prefer Wilson. Golf
champions Sam Snead, Cary Mid-
dlecoff, Lloyd Mangrum‘hGene Sara-
zen,.Patty{Berg and Babe Didrikson
—tennis champions Jack Kramer,
Don Budge, Bobby Riggs and‘Alice
Marble—diamond stars Ted Wil-
liams and Bob Feller— gridiron head-
liners johnny Lujack, Charlie Trippi
and Paul Christmain are‘among the"

2 stars who make up ihis great staff of
' experts. Play the equipment of cham-

pions—Wilson—and you can be sure
you’re playing equipment that can-
not be. surpassed.

WILSON SPORTING GOODS CO., INC.

Broneh offices in New York, San Francisco
and other principal cities
(A subsidiary of Wilson & Co., Inc.)

 Iva/son

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

 

Crafts groups were rolled
onto the porches and lawns.

HE COMING OF summer means many wonder—

ful things to the average child. Early in the
spring he begins to dream of freedom from school,
vacation time, carefree play out-of—doors. Perhaps
he will go to camp where he will swim in a lake,
climb a hill, sleep in a tent, or sit around a camp—
fire roasting weenies and marshmallows, singing
songs and listening to stories interspersed with the
calls of birds. Maybe he will even see a deer.

If he doesn’t go to a camp away from home,
perhaps he’ll go to a day camp._ A bus will take
him and his friends to some spot of enchantment
where all the activities of a regular camp, except
sleeping out, are conducted.

It may be that he will have fun on a playground
or at a beach. In any ‘case, summer will be full of
play with the companionship of friends. Yes, sum—
mer is a time for rich childhood living.

But, it was June, and our sixty children, ranging
in age from two to seventeen, were not looking
forward to the summer ahead. There were no
happy dreams for them. On the contrary, they
dreaded the summer. There was nothing in store
for them but sheer boredom. They were children
confined to bed; little patients recovering from
orthopedic illnesses. The time spent in the con-
valescent hospital would run from six months to
six years.

Mir: Adler is director of Country Home, a harpi-
tal for joint dimmer, For Rocéaway, N ew York.

34

DAY CAMP --

During this period, the majority of them would
be restricted to bed in order to keep weight off
healing bones. A few were in the sit-up—in-a-
wheel~chair stage and a very limited number were
permitted a few hours of walking or standing with
the aid of crutches. I

“Here,” we said, “is a golden opportunity to
bring joy to these children and to enrich their
lives. They cannot go to camp, but we can bring
a day camp program to them.” We mentioned the
possibility of such a program to some of the older
children. Their delight, eagerness and anticipation
were wonderful to behold. Immediately they began
dreaming-Hand how good it is to dream again
when you are ill. “Of course,” they said, “we will
not have campfires, but it will be something to do.”

We divided the children into five groups, ac-
cording to age. They were rolled, in their beds,
out-of—doors, onto the porches and lawns. The
day began at. nine a.m. with Hag raising, com-
munity singing and the usual camp announce-
ments. A portable organ and a public address
system proved very helpful. The program includ-
ed music, crafts, nature study, puppetry.

Campers created articles in plastic, metal, leather.

 

RECREATION

LOUISE ADLER

MWam’é‘ed

The children could not take long walks in the
woods or kneel down beside an upturned rock to
study the pattern of ant community life. Nor
could they sit on top of a hill in the early dawn
to watch the sunrise. However, birds flew by our
“camp,” too. There were interesting cloud forma-
tions for them to observe. The nature counsellor
brought a large variety of leaves for them to iden-
tify and mount. Shell and pine cone crafts were
popular .

They could not go to a workshop for crafts but
a portable table (utilizing an instrument table)
was rolled to the beds, carrying a full array of
tools and supplies; and, with the addition of over-
bed tables, patient-campers created ‘in, plastic,
metal, leather and yarn. ‘

They could not walk across a stage as charac-
ters in a drama, but they created plays.using'a

table for a floor, a frame for a stage and puppets .-

for actors. There was a great deal of music—sing:

ing and a rhythm band. -For the younger children ,.

who were not in plaster and could’ be lifted,‘ we
provided a plastic .Splasl’i pool. We also built a
movable sail pool, bed height, to float boats.

Cook-outs were best, utilizing grills and long fog‘ks.”

pal-J "
9 ‘ ‘ 1m
.. In a" "

1" ‘16:.
s .

APRIL 1950

The day camp program was highlighted by the
campfires—real ones—about which were featured
community singing, storytelling and entertain-
ment. An Indian dancer performed in costume.
The children participated in a song fest. Each,
group created and sang its own songs. There was
a quiz program with prizes, followed by a box
picnic supper. Best of all were the cook—outs.
Portable charcoal grills and extra long toasting
forks made this activity possible.

The children were extremely happy, frequently
forgetting, that they were "ill. The pace was con-
siderablycslower than in a day camp for well chil-
dren. The limitations, which the medical care
required, were always carefully ,observed by the
staff. Every piece of 'equipfnent was portable. Suf-
ficient time was allowed. inOplarin‘ing' our program ~
to permit the distribution and collection of sup-
.plies.o_lns’te'ad of campers going from one activity
to’ithe next, the staff shifted from group to group.
A hospital attendant had to be available to transfer
beds and children. The recreation staff were par-
ticularly sympathetic and‘adaptable which, in the
final analysis, made the program possible.

1.

‘ Muipinent was portable, moved from place to place.

 

Crafts

Most popular during two
years of summer program in
St. Louis Park, Minnesota.

FOR OUTDOOR PLAYGROUNDS

MYRTIE G. HOUPT

66 OY, AM I THIRSTY!” is a signal for showing
how to fold a drinking cup from a square of
water-tough paper.

Crafts for large groups outdoors must be of 'a
simple nature and useful. A coin purse to slide
over a belt or snap on a wrist simplifies pocket
bulges. These are made of felt, or leather scraps,
sewn or laced with a blanket stitch or overcasting.

Keys fascinate children—whether essential or
for something to jingle—so chains or necklace
lanyards of plastic lacing are popular items that
give opportunity for color selection and develop
skill with small muscles of the hands. Two-strand
flat braids are easiest; then four-strand round or
square braids come next in popularity. Bracelets
are favorites, too. The finish for a two-strand flat
bracelet uses a kindergarten wood bead or shoe
button.

On hot days, basketry has an appeal, since the
reed must be kept moist for weaving. The dip
into a pail of cool water is reward for any difficul-
ties involved. Children should be nine years old
or over". for basketry, otherwise their fingers are

 

BEH‘ Purse,

too small to hold the reed securely. Little tots
like clay modeling on hot days. Since equipment is

 

Mix: H oupt direct: art: and crafts, St. Louis Park.

36

limited, modeling of animal forms is encouraged.
Still, humid weather is ideal for finger painting

outdoors. Children of all ages enjoy playing with

color and smearing directly on smooth, non-ab-

Q 2. 5+r‘ancl

15rd cele'l- acin isk

sorbent paper. Hot sun *dries the paint too fast.
A windy day makes any paper work hectic for
maximum enjoyment. Spatter prints of grasses,
marbleized paper, of finger painting, make good
folders for invitations to parents and grandparents
when a special playground feature might interest
them.

Day camp, with its remote location, makes a
good place to pound four-inch metal aluminum
discs into small dishes. Pounding appeals to the
boys. The metal involves more cost per person
than any of the other crafts mentioned, but being
an outlet for rough energies, it is worthwhile.

Waste materials from homes and local fac-
tories make up into useful items. Long-necked
bottles with large openings can be wound with
lacing scraps for handles, then the bulge part
painted with harmonizing designs. Old nail kegs
can be painted for gay waste collectors on play-
grounds. A gasket company became a source of
cork and asbestos discs to make into checkers and
coasters for decorating with paint or crayon de-
sign. Old inner tubes make good covering for
drums when stretched over one—pound coffee cans
with top and base removed, laced with plastic braid
or stout string.

RECREATION

Sandbox projects involve a variety of paper
work and simple skills. Miniature models are used
. in many commercial fields, and the group experi-
ence of achievement is the visual counterpart of
orchestration to the hearing sense. The first year,
one contest was held with the theme “United
Nations”. The second year, two contests were
held—one for the seedlings (seven and under) on
summer fun; the: second for the sprouts (eight
and over) on “Minnesota Centennial”. A water—
melon feed was the prize.

The final play day inspires playground pride
and stimulates the use of insignias, banners or
.posters. Insignias for our playgrounds were made
of combinations of felt, wood beads, cork andpipe
cleaners. The banners were made of crayonex
designs on dish toweling. Wax crayon designs
(not pressed) on cloth (or cork) melts into the
material if placed in the hot sun. Color should be
rubbed into both sides of the material.

During play day, craft competitions are high-
points of interest. These serve a two-fold pur-
‘pose: further stimulation to the best craftsmen of
each playground; and the showing of some of the
craft activities for the benefit of parents. The fol-
.lowing have been tried successfully (time limit
fifteen minutes) :

Acorns (Teen-agers)——

I. Clay modeling, each receiving a lump of clay
in the right consistency for modeling, wrapped in
a wet cloth. Award is made for the animal best
formed—most expressive as well as original.

2. Finger painting—when time is called, the
sheet with the most rhythmic pattern is winner.

3. Dressing clothespin dolls that have been
mounted in a sawdust base with paper and yarn
scraps is" done with paste and scissors.

4. Lanyard lacing calls for speed and quality
of braiding. Each contestant is given two strips
of lacing, a clip, and stationed by a nail driven
in a post before the signal is given for the start.

5. Basketry contestants are allowed as much
time as needed. The best formed basket shape
with good weaving wins.

Sprouts (Eight years old to teen-agers)——

1. .Clay modeling, same as above.

 

2. Finger painting, same as above.

3. Bracelets of plastic lacing in’ a two-strand
fiat braid.

APRIL 1950

4. Drinking cups from squares of meat market
vegetable parchment folded after the signal is
given. The first to finish and drink from the cup
is the winner.

5. Millinery contest of paper plates, calling for
a variety of paper, paste. Day campers used bur-

A .
Drinki'nq Cup

 

dock leaves, bird nests, pods, grasses and so forth
for a novel contest of their own.
Seedlings (Seven years old and younger)-—-

I. Clay modeling.

2. Finger painting.

Winners are given a gift kit of material similar
to that used when winning. Special awards are
given to the outstanding craftsman on each play-
ground. Not only workmanship is considered in
the selection, but neatness, care of materials and
spirit of helpfulness.

Most of our playgrounds are outdoors without
covered buildings for storage of equipment. Army
tool boxes are supplied (painted forest green).
These have false bottoms in which are stored
paper, scissors, pencils, bits of screening (for spat-
ter prints), India ink (for posters and marbleiz-
ing paper), water-color brushes, wooden beads,
paste and crayons. Game equipment fills the top.
This arrangement means that the leader picks up
special craft supplies at a weekly leaders’ meeting
where some instruction is given. The arts and
crafts member on the central staff is available to
give demonstrations of more involved crafts at
individual playgrounds.

Often playground leaders have had extensive
training in athletics, but little, if any, in crafts.
Occasionally, applicants have had.a course in one
craft or in water color. The exploratory type of
craft course gives leaders a better background with
which to fit into programs.

Constructive hands are useful in all walks of
life. Having fun by making something from very
little forms a habit of thinking that is a good atti-
tude to develop. Paper construction, braiding, bas-
ketry, weaving, lacing, sewing, stencilling, finger
painting, and metal shaping have many possible
combinations. The finished product is of less im-
portance than training to see constructively. If a
craft solution meets the need of the child’s activity,
it is more highly prized than a long involved craft
which may be better for exhibition purposes only.

37

WANT A PET?

 

HERE IS NOTHING so sad as a boy who is long—
Ting to own a cat, who has read all the litera—
ture on how to keep a cat well and happy, but can’t
have one because he and his mother live in a
furnished apartment where cats and dogs are not
allowed. Of course, you can make friends with
the cats in the street or.with the ones sitting in
front of the groceries. You can even have fun with
a few salamanders and snails you have found in
the woods; but this cannot substitute for the joy
and feeling of friendliness that a nice kitten or a

bouncy puppy can give you when you come home 'P

from school and iind one waiting for you.

We had given up hope of having a real pet very
soon; but, one day, my boy Kai came across a little
ad: “The golden hamster, often called toy bear,
delightful pet, clean and odorless, weighs only four
ounces, lives in small cage.” What in the world
was this attractive little creature? Most of my
friends never had heard about it. I consulted
Webster: “A species of grain—storing rat, ,with
two pouches, and a short tail.” In my mind I saw
this mysterious hamster whizzing over the furni—
ture, gnawing everything gnawable, and storing
cake, candy, bread, cookies and so forth in his
pouches. We were completely bewildered. There
was not the slightest relation between Webster’s
sober information and the friendly description in
the ad.

Hamster ads kept on appearing in many maga-
zines. “Perhaps it’s a kind of rat with a very
friendly disposition,” the boy pleaded. Finally, the
mystery was solved. In one magazine Kai discov-
ered a picture of a hamster. Perched on a letter
scale, a roundish, furry little animal looked at us
expectantly with large bead—like eyes, its tiny nose
ornamented with long whiskers. Nothing what-
soever reminded one of a rat; you would rather

Mrs. Klemm is now preparing a book for parent:
suggesting creative week-end fun ideas for their
children according to all tine season: of the year.

38.

Suggesting one
that is ideal for

small apartments.

HELEN M. KLEMM

call it a strange mixture of a bunny and a bear,

Events moved quickly and to everybody’s satis-
faction after that. A friend phoned to ask whether
we would like to see a hamster pair which her two
boys owned, and whether Kai would care to have
one of their young. What a question! The next
few days were devoted to the construction “of a
comfortable cage, filled with a thick layer of wood
shavings and two small food containers. Finally
the big day arrived, and we went out to select the
longed—for pet. There followed a long conference
between Kai and his two friends and, iinally, I
was presented with a small girl hamster which“

 

according to Kai’s udgment, was especially
healthy—looking and had a really friendly smile.
Woodie—Wiggle, as she was named, soon settled
down in her new home. She devotes much time to
the arrangement and Hufhng up of her sleeping
quarters which consist of cotton and a few tissues,
regularly changed for cleanliness. Here she sleeps
most of the day. Eventually, she takes a very light
breakfast—a few drops of milk and one or two
chips of cereal or grain—and immediately retires

sleepily.
RECREATION

In the evening, until late in the night, she be-
comes lively and very active. After a terrific
stretch and a healthy yawn, she is all set for ex-
ploring unknown territory. Quickly she gobblcs
all the food she finds—grains, dog food, lettuce,
and the like—not bothering to chew it properly,
just filling her pouches at high speed. If too incon-
venient to hold, she races into her storage corner
near her bed, disappears, and empties her pouches
in privacy. Then she begins climbing the screening
of her cage or the stepladder and the vertical
wooden bars running across her enclosure. Im-
patiently she pushes against the top of the cage,
biting and pulling at the materials separating her
from the outer world. As soon as Kai opens the
top, she swings gracefully over its rim and is gone
in no time. But most of the time she glides into
one of our hands, and we carry her to the sofa or
any place other than the Boor. A hamster may
easily get some infection on her feet when exposed
to splinters or sharp objects.

There is nothing Woodie likes better than a visit
to my writing desk. Every little nook is carefully
inspected—bills, letters and stamps turned upside
down. One or two nuts are hidden there, and she
usually finds them; she does not care to open them,
however, and they ust disappear into her pouches,
giving her face an entirely different expression.
Unfortunately, there is not time to play with her
all evening, and she is put back into her cage,
although she shows no sign of exhaustion or sleepi-
ness.

The cage is protected with a warm cover during
the winter to keep off the drafts, as a hamster, in
spite of her warm fur, may easily catch pneumonia.
But, if carefully watched, kept clean and prOperly
fed, there is no such danger. However, if one
detects anything suspicious, such as a reddened
paw, a bare spot on her coat or a constant scratch—
ing, it is advisable to consult the doctor. Some-
times a telephone -call is sufficient if you can de—
scribe the ailment, and simple medication is
enough. One thing, however, must not be neglected
——in addition to proper physical care a hamster
needs lots of affection, play and gentle handling.

For all those who would like to have as much
fun and pleasure with a hamster as we, here are
a few practical hints on cage building, hamster
hygiene and daily food.

The cage can be made from an empty fruit box
——-the best from crates that held pears or apples
for they are strongest and most durable. A good
size is eighteen-by-twelve-by-ten inches (see draw-
:ing). As- the hamster must have plenty of light
and fresh air, three- sides of the cage must be

APRIL 1950

screened. To cut out the sides, drill holes at each
corner and insert a coping saw. Cut an opening
six-and-one-half—by-ten inches and repeat on oppo-
site side. A piece of wire screening (available at
-any large hardware store), with openings of one-
fourth of a square inch, must be about one-half
inch larger than the openings on all sides, so that
it can be attached with heavy wire staples to the
inside of the box. Ask the hardware man to cut
the wire screening for you in case you don’t have
tin snippers or wire clippers. It is very important
to have no sharp wire ends protruding from the
screening.

The lid can be constructed from scrap lumber
or get a board eighteen-by-twelve-and-one-fourth
inches and cut out a piece fourteen-by-eight inches.
Get a piece of screening sixteen-by-ten inches and
attach with wire staples. Almost any kind of butt
hinges can be used and attached with wooden
screws. Attach a hook and eye to the lid in order
to fasten it when closed. Place in the cage a large
layer of wood shavings. Almost any lumber yard
will furnish these free. The best kind are those
in large sacks, sold as animal bedding in pet shops,
for they are clean and sanitary with a nice smell.
Bedding should be changed a minimum of once a
week, and all stored food should be removed.

Hamsters will thrive on any kind of grain (avail-
able at pet shops), cereals, nuts, raw vegetables,
especially lettuce and carrots, but never on onions
or garlic. A small piece of cheese and apple will
be greatly appreciated. One of the best hamster
foods is dried dog food containing a. minimum of
twenty per cent protein. A small dish should be
filled each day with the daily ration and another
container with fresh milk or water.

For further information, you always can turn to
the question house of zoos or to nature museums

or libraries.

R E M I N D E R
W053 ghwd/
Mi/a/e/ic (cagzw/ox w) 2/

is built by
3k

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOI‘I’ RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25th St.
los Angeles 11, Calif.

*Reg. U. 5. Pat. OH.

 

39

Why not use FILMS? —'

to present the phases of your
SUMMER CAMP PROGRAM

Choose from— r

Over 1300 titles in the free 1950 Catalog
which includes top-flight films on

ENTERTAINMENT
CAMP ACTIVITIES
SPORTS and RECREATION
lEADERSHIP TRAINING

and
More than 100 Free Films

___¢._._..

Write for the New, Free 1950 Catalog
and for the New, Free Pamphlet—
“The Use of Films in the Summer Camp"

ASSOCIATON FILMS§

NEW YORK 19 CHICAGO 3
35 West 45th St. 206 So. Michigan Ave.

   
    
  
  
    
 

SAN FRANCISCO 2 OAllAS 4
35! Turk St.

 

fo

Available

I’ll! Invtsr lav fir! F1310 I
0 st. IOUIS a no

MANUFACTURING COMPANY

3012 Maple Avenue

. I"
61¢er Sport!

Thru Leading
Athletic Goods
Distributors

YOUR SPRING CALENDAR

APRIL

15-16—“Bread and Butter” Conference on Child

' ' Welfare, Hull” House, Chicago, Illinois (in
connection with the Mid-Century White

House Conference on Children and Youth).

22-29——Nationa1 Baseball Week (sponsored by The
Sporting Goods Dealer, 2012-18 Washing-
ton Avenue, St. Louis 3, Missouri).

23—William Shakespeare, 1564-1616.
24-3o—American Camp Week. (Write the Ameri—
can Camping Association, 343 S. Dearborn
Street, Chicago 4, Illinois.)
26—John Jamies Audubon, 1785-1851, pioneer
American ornithologist, naturalist, painter
and writer.

29-May 6—Boys and Girls Week, United States
and Canada. (Write Boys and Girls Week
Committee, 35 East Wacker Drive, Chi-
cago, Illinois.)
MAY
I—May Day.
7—Robert Browning, 1812-1889.

7—13-—-Be Kind to Animals Week.

7-14—-—National Music Week. (For free 1950 Let-
ter of Suggestions, write National and In-

ter-American Music Week Committee, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.)

IS-June IS—Father—Child Month. (Write Na-

tional Father’s Day Committee, 50 East
42nd Street, New York I 7, New York.)

20-27——-National Fisherman’s Week.
21,—I Am An American Day.

2I—30—National Park and Recreation Week
(sponsored by Park and Recreation Week,
Room 305, 116 S. Michigan Avenue. Chi-
cago 3, Illinois). -
30—Memorial Day.

SIX?

Joseph Lee Day

Joseph Lee Day—July 28—is celebrated on
playgrounds everywhere. There should be a very
special event, or series of events, honoring the
“godfather of play,” and plans should be made
early. The National Recreation Association will
be glad to send material on observance of that day
to anyone requesting it. Also, it is suggested that
you look through your back files of RECREATION
magazine and the Bulletin Service.

RECREATION

 

American Streamlined Heavy Duty Picnic Table An American De Luxe Slide Combination Lnit

@W IN DESIGN,

PERFORMANCE AND SAFETY

It’s the plus factor that makes American the most respected
name in Playground Equipment. First, plus in design. Never
content to copy, American engineers have pioneered scores of
design improvements and innovations. N ext, plus in pedorm-
ance. Employing superior materials, master craftsmanship
and improved production methods, American Approved Equip -
ment is built to endure. Finally, plus in safety. American
craftsmen are aware of their responsibility for the safety of
your children. Thus, with American you receive far superior
design, unexcelled performance, and unmatched safety.

 

The plus factor extends to our dealings
with customers. You will find American
pleasant to deal with, equitable in adjust-
ments, and eager to protect an enviable
reputation nearly half a century old.

_ — ___- -- . _ —I——\l— —\_'\_-.-.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

 

Above—-New All-American Picnic Grill

Bela —A A ' OFF ' l .
Regulag’on 61ne_?;::::;ivil::%nit i World’s Largest bfanufacturers of Fine

l Playground & Swimming Pool Equipment

W . 7 FOR CATALOGS AND SPECIAL LITERATURE
#656 04% FEATURING AMERICAN. APPROVED

PLAYGROUND'EQUIPSIENT - o - SWIMMING POOL EQUIPLIIENT o o - ALL-AMERICAN PICNIC GRILLS
ALL-AMERICAN UNIFORM HANGERS - o 0 AMERICAN HEAVY DUTY CHECKING AND GYMNASIUM BASKETS
STEEL BASKET RACKS - o 0 AMERICAN REPAIR EQUIPMENT - o 0 AMERICAN HOME PLAY EQUIPMENT

7WmSW..HHHHH9Wma¢AW

 

APRIL 1950 I;

Sod for Playgrounds

A0000 LAWN for play purposes is not impossible
when it is prepared from the ground up, rather
than the surface down. It serves as a haven for the
family, free of dust and mud, and is as functional
as a recreation room with all the advantages of the
big outdoors.

Whatever the sport -——badminton, croquet or
baseball———it is a foregone conclusion that a lawn
that can take punishment is needed. That is why
turf for play courts receives special handling in
starting and upkeep. Also, it is well to realize the
importance of developing a deep root system in
such sod. Deep roots mean a closer knit turf and
tougher top growth. They mean, too, a deep seed
bed preparation, down to six or eight inches at
least. The topsoil should be loamy and contain
plenty of organic matter and an abundance of
nourishing grass food. Final grading is carried out
so as to provide surface drainage for the play-
ground lawn. The subsoil nll must be graded simi—
larly so that the topsoil will be of uniform depth
over the entire area.

Selection of sturdy varieties of grass to plant on
the play court is of no small significance. The most

v ESTER

Leathercrait Supplies

0%?“ new

I950

CATALOG

Includes Leather, Lacing, Fully Illustrated
"Simple to Complete” Projects for children
and adults, Designs, Patterns, Accessories,
Tools, Belt Blanks, Scrap Leather, etc.

YOURS FREE
FOR THE ASKING

ESTER LEATHER CO., Dept. R
145 St. Paul Street, Rochester 4, N. Y.

Name .......................................................................... ..

Address .............................................  ......................... ..

City .................................................. .. State ............... ..

 

42-

successful play areas have grass seed containing
the relatively new strain of Alta Fescue. This is a
deep-rooted perennial with top growth which, when
mature, can withstand sustained use better than
any grass so far developed. It grows vigorously
right through spring, summer and fall, just when
other varieties tend to lie down on the job. How-
ever, Kentucky Bluegrass, Perennial Ryegrass,
Chewing New Zealand Fescue with some Bent—
grass have also proved successful on baseball dia—
monds and football fields. It’s wise to let a reliable
seed firm prepare this grass seed mixture for your
playground area.

High mowing is another important factor that
encourages the formation of a vigorous sod. Cut—
ting weekly or mowing every ten days or two
weeks is recommended, but with the mower set to
cut two to two-and-one—half inches. A lower cut
will be necessary only if the area is used for croquet.

Watering thoroughly whenever needed will keep
the sport sod growing actively. Deep, soaking ap-
plications of water in the absence of rain are a
must—C. B. Mills. Reprinted from the New
Y or}: Times.

 

MADE TO STAY OUT -
— MADE TO PLAY OUT

Life-Time FLEXIBLE Tennis Nets, Made of Copper-

Weld wire, with heavy Sand Belt Webbing t0p binder—

metal center support prevents sagging—completely as-
sembled—ready to install—weight only 50 pounds

SAVE MAINTENANCE COST

° Can be left out all year
° Will not cut or damage balls
' Adaptable to existing posts

' Non-rusting

Write for New Brochure

   
 

- ac

FROST WOVEN 'WIRE Co.

EXECUTIVE OFFICES

P. 0. BOX 6555 WASHINGTON, D. C.

RECREATION

RECREATION LEADERS!

Are you familiar with the

services and publications
of the

American Association for Health,
Physical Education, & Recreation?

JOIN 18,000 PROFESSIONAL

RECREATION
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
HEALTH

COLLEAGUES  '"

r" Write for

Brochure describing‘ association and.

Order blank of special-'w'publicatiobns  r *

gram .-
..

AMERICAN AssoCIAnoNi’Fon. HEALTH,- \ r I
PHYSICAL EDUCATION, ANP.RECREATION .

1201 16th Street, N.W. ' _‘ Washington 6, Dufc.

DIAMOND OFFICIAL

PITBHING HORSESHUES

Diamond Horseshoe Pitching outfits are packed in
stained wooden boxes for attractive window or
counter display.

 

DIAMOND SUPER RINGER

The finest pitching horseshoes made. Perfectly bal-
anced, with dead-falling qualities unexcelled. Will
never chip or break. Write for information on our
complete pitching horseshoe line and accessories.

DIAMOND BAIK' HORSESHDE III].

4616 Grand Avenue ' Duluth, Minnesota

 

APRIL 1950

 
 
  

 

LOUIEIIILLE
SLUGGERS

.7
‘ r --.
.
e;
‘ ‘

      

4L '
W K gum VW
I949 American I949 National
League Batting :‘ League letting
Champion ' Champion

   

9:1 W14”
i949 American I949 National
League Home League Home

Run Leader r Run Lead-gr

."~e

In I949 . . . as in every
season since '84 . . . all the
.important maior league batting
' records were made with Louis-
ville Sluggers . . . the bat of
the Champions in every league.

FREE BOOKS

The 1950 editions of these two favorite
annuals are now ready and we are ex-
tending our offer of free copies to you.
Just address Hillerich 8c Bradsby,
Dept. R, Louisville 2, Kentucky.

THE FAMOUS SLUGGER
YEAR BOOK

Every year players and fans from coast-to-
coast look forward to the Famous Slugger
Year Book with its 64 pages packed with
baseball interest. The 1950 edition con-
tains pictures of great hitters, batting rec-
ords, and batting hints in an exclusive article

by Ty Cobb.

SOFTBALL RULE BOOK

Gives complete, aficial 1950 softball rules,
diagram of softball diamond, pictures of last
year's champs, etc.

SLUGGER BATS,

FOR BASEBALL & SOFTBALL

  

Pennsylvania: The Recreation Planning Spe-
cialist of the State Planning Board has completed,
in chart form, “An Analysis of Pennsylvania Rec-
reation Program-Areas and Facilities” . . . The
State Planning Board and the Public Service Insti-
tute of the Department of Public Instruction con-
ducted a trial training institute for city officials,
school superintendents and playground leaders last
year. A number of training institutes is planned for
this year throughout the state so that no one will
have to travel more than fifty miles. In addition to
institutes for administrators, there will be two-day
workshops for playground leaders . . . Pennsyl-
vania sells more out-of—state hunting and fishing
licenses than any other state . . . A tremendous
state park expansion and development program is
underway in the state. A minimum of sixty-
seven wayside areas are to be acquired and de-
veloped by the Department of Highways . . . A
course in parks and park administration is being
offered this year for the hrst time by the Depart-
ment of Horticulture of the School of Agriculture
at Pennsylvania State College.

Florida: Another series of recreation leader—
ship training courses. has been worked out this
year by the University of Florida Extension Divi-
sion in cooperation with Florida State University.
Plans call for courses in arts and crafts, music and

The

Recreation Appeal
LearnAbouf

TRAMPOLINING

Intense Participant-Spectator Interest . . .
Founded by NISSEN, Creator and Pio—
neer of America’s First Standard
TRAMPOLINE*

Write for FREE LITERATURE
*Reg. U. 5. Pat. Office

‘NISSEN TRAMPOLIN’E

200 A AVENUE NW CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

“Big Jump” in

 

 

STATE NEWS NOTES

7W4 from the FORTY-EIGHT

social recreation, to be given in cities throughout
the state. This will be the third year of extensive
recreation leadership training courses under the
auspices of the Extension Division.

Washington: The new acting supervisor of
recreation of the State Parks and Recreation Com-
mission worked with eighty-nine communities be-
tween the time of his appointment on May hfteenth
until about the middle of December . . . Driver
license fees have been upped from two dollars to
three dollars, with one dollar and ten cents from
each license fee earmarked for the State Parks and

Recreation Commission. In addition, the commis-
sion receives a quarter of all highway fines, and
can spend revenues without appropriatiori . . . A
State Advisory Committee on Organized Camping
has been appointed, and committees are at work on
the following assignments: campsite development,
camping standards, research, group camp adminis-
tration, recreation division camping services study.
A statement of policy regarding organized camp-
ing was prepared and has been adopted by the
Parks and Recreation Commission . . . The De-
partment of Education received applications for
financial assistance with recreation programs from
T 75 school districts; 169 school districts had active
programs.

CUSTOM BUILT

PLAYGROUND
EQUlPMENT

Flexi Swing Seat—Price $3.85

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT
P. o. 474 HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

 

RECREATION

PROMPT SHIPMENTS of HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES
 NEW ITEMS

° GAYBIRD - WEAV-A-BELT ' CHAIN CRAFT
Note.- Above items NOT LISTED In 1950 CATALOG
—plmse WRITE FOR LITERATURE.
For EVERYTHING in leather—write
Larson Leathercratt Headquarters.

TRIPLE “C” LACE

Experienced leather workers will be interested A first grade coated lacing of superior flexi-
in 0111‘ Prompt delivery and wide variety. com- bility. Available in 17 colors, 3 /32” wide
prising the largest complete stock of leather in 100 yard rolls
and leathercraft supplies in America. We '
offer moderate-priced tooling leathers as well
.5 .
as top quality calfskins. $1 0 $1 2 50
For beginners we have ready-cut projects with Per R°" "3 R°"5
free instructions for assembly. NO tools and
no experience necessary. Quantity Price: 50 rolls, $50.00
Tools, materials and tree instructions for making: 'I¢ Per Yard
- GLOVES - KEY CASEs'
- LINK BELTS - loo OTHER POPULAR ITEMS
- PYROSTRIP - BILLFOLDS - 1950 Complete Handicraft
- MOCCASINS - WOOLSKIN MITTENS and -
- COIN PURSES TOY ANIMALS EIUPIZiliieS gagalog ¢
0 COMB CASES an 11g arge. . .
. Send for FREE catalog
J. C. lARSON CO" Inc. CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO_
Dept. AR. 820 5- Tripp Ave- Chicago 24. Ill. 770-774 CARNEGIE AVE. CLEVELAND Is, OHIO

 

Newest Development in Checking Room Equipment

. _ __ Plastic Screen Wire Bag

l. Indefinite long life. Tests three times stronger than canvas.

2. Durable hardwood hanger built in. No hangers to buy. NO
replacements can ever be necessary.

3. Contents in bag are always visible.

4. Sanitary. To recondition this bag simply shake “out the dust. dip
in your chlorinated pool water and hang in the sun for a
few minutes.

5. Economical. No laundry costs. Low original cost. Bags three
years old show no wear.

6. Clothes can be stored as neatly as in your own closet at home.
Clothes are not rolled as in baskets.

7. Checking room space is conserved as well as labor to administer.

Upon request we will mail free of charge
specification of racks, pins, etc., for the
entire system, together with the names
of the many cities that have adopted
this checking method.

PRICES: FOB LOS ANGELES

$1.60 each without pants hanger.
15:. extra with pants hanger.

 

N. B.--Most pools order 10% of bags
with the pants hanger.

SUN AIRED BAG

Patent Pending
8669 FENWICK STREET

HENRY R. LEFEBVRE, Manager SUNLAND, CALIFORNIA

 

APRIL 1950 45

Magazines and Pamphlets

Research Quarterly, December 1949
.\ Study of Existing State High School and other
Selected Athletic Benefit Plans. \Valter 1'3. Marks,

Survey, January 1950
Trial and .l‘irrur in St. Louis, James Laurence.
'l'elx'yisiun- Hopes and Limitations, ('harles
Sii‘pnmnn.
\lmlt‘rn Cities-

A.

You or Never, Henry S. Churchill.

Nation’s Schools, February 1950

Schoolhouse Planning.

Scholastic Coach, January 1950
Does Floodlighting Pay?
St. Joseph’s New Stadium. Leon Burgoyne.
l)e[.uxe Model Gym, J. H. Griffin.
the Equipment Room, Frank J. Murray.
Space Utilization and Gym Seating,

Sleepe.

Sanitation of the Facilities, C. O. Jackson.

Harold R.

Park Maintenance, January 1950
More Fun in Parks in \Vinter than Summer for
Many Enthusiasts, Leigh J. Batterson and Arthur
J. Roscoe.
Plant for Color to Attract Visitors to Your Parks,
Robert B. Clark.

Parks and Recreation, January 1950
Government Loans to Parks under Public Law 352.
Importance of Outdoor Education, Roberts Mann.
High Court Says Recreation Tax Must Be Paid.
“Bobby Kidney Sunshine Club," Jackson J. Perry.

Portable Platform for Varying Uses, James S.
Stevens.

The Maintenance Mart.

An action-tested, IMPROVED softball
by America's leading manufacturer of
rubber-covered athletic ballsl offering
outstanding value. longer playing life
and better performance.

WEAVER XXIZA
OFFICIAL 12" SOFTBALL

.Top-grade center of long-fibre. se-
lected-estates Itapol: wound with long-

staple Egyptian cotton. (Product of J. deBeer ‘
3: Son.)

.Specially compounded rubber cover . .
tough . . . abrasion-resistant . . . leatherlilte in
feel and appearance.

(g.

Specify famed Weaver softball equipment . . . Weaver
XXIZA IMPROVED official I2” softballs . . . Weaver Xl2

extra-soft-center I2” softballs for restricted areas . . . and
popular Weaver X|4A l4” softballs. Write for prices.

WEAVER WINTARK SALES (0

Books Received

 

American Folklore Fancies, Franz B. May, Anglo-
books, New York. $.3.50.

Bases Loaded, \Vilfred McCormick. G. P. Putnam’s
Sons. New York. $2.00.

Big-Time Baseball, Harold H. Hart and Ralph T01-
Ieris. Hart Publishing Company, New York. $2.95,
deluxe binding; $1.00 paper-covered-edition.

Camp Counseling, A. Viola Mitchell and Ida B. Craw-
ford. \V. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia.

Campaigning for Members, Herman A. Sarachan. As-
sociation Press, New York. $3.00.

Chance to Belong, Duane Robinson. The Woman’s
Press, New York. $5.00.

Community Health, Laurence B. Chenoweth and
Whitelaw Reid Morrison. Appleton-Century—Crofts,
Incorporated, New York. $3.00.

Creative Play Acting, Isabel B. Burger. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

Crowded House, The, Fan Kissen. Houghton Mifflin
Company. Boston, Massachusetts. $1.88.

Dances of Early California Days, Lucite K. Czarnow-
ski. Pacilic Books, Palo Alto, California. $5.00.

First Fifty Years, The, Fiftieth Annual Report of the

Superintendent of Schools, Board of Education, New
York City.

Funny Riddles and Rhymes, edited by Frank Furness.
Hart Publishing Company, New York. $1.25.

How to Know the Wild Flowers, Alfred Stefferud. The
New American Library, New York. $.35.

AMERICA'S FOREMOST ATHLETIC EQUIPMENF
o P. 0. BOX 71-500”! FIFIH STREET-SHAMOKIN, PA.

 

RECREATION

“A Treasury of Living”

The National Recreation Association will shortly
publish selections from the writings of Howard
Braucher in a deluxe volume, to be titled “A
Treasury of Living.” The edition will be limited
to one thousand copies, and each volume will be
numbered.

The selected editorials, written between 1909
and 1949—the period of M r. Braucher’s service as
executive secretary and president of the Associa-
tion—reflect his thinking on recreation administra-
tion and leadership, and the importance of worth-
while leisure-time activity to the individual, his
community and his world. A number of the Christ-
mas messages which he sent to his friends and as-
sociates through the years will also be included.

The Problem of Surfacing

The American Institute of Park Executives, the
American Recreation Society and the National
Recreation Association have jointly appointed a
committee on the surfacing of recreation areas to
collect information as to surfacing methods and
materials, to appraise their effectiveness so far as
possible, and to encourage experimentation.

SUMMER or FALL
AERIAL TENNIS DART

. . . the GAME FOR ALL
A low cost sport, for 2 or 20 players

. . . for OUTDOOR PLAYGROUNDS
. . . for INDOOR GYMNASIUMS
. . . for MASS PADDLE BADMINTON

Order today from Lowe (2: Campbell, or
other leading sporting goods dealers, or
write direct for Information and prices.

SELLS AERIAL TENNIS CO.
4834 Belinder Rd., Kansas City 3, Kons.

 

APRIL 1950

Marco] (l. \lontri-uil Dies
\isitm‘s t0 the. National Recreation ( n: g“ ~-
New Orleans will I)( sort, In 1.! ar of 1m («Jul
death of Marcel (i. \[untl't-iill. gt rural ilialwger my
city parks, who was their 11ml at 'lin- lII'PaIUilJ
under the elms.

Proceedings Available
Copies of the. 1m weeding. of the Four-U minim
l’okagon—Great Lakes 'I'rainmg Institute may lu-
obtained, at two dollars per copy, from the. (nivc 1-
sity Bookstore, Indiana L’nivt-rsiiy. llloumingtun.
Indiana.

RYAN’S PLAYGROUND
DRY LINE MARKERS

BASEBALL . . . SOFTBALL
TRACK-PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES

ACCLAIMED AT THE c. R 5.
AT SANTA BARBARA.

* Force Feed—Instant Shutoft

* Easy to operate and till
Holds one 5011- Sack—No muss

* No Brushes or Screens

H G R #1 $54.75
Delivered

Slightly Less in
the West

Three other models

Send to Dept. G
for booklet

H. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIFORNIA

In eve'y Edd of sro-I - Profs!
o anal Sam -Pra one Anntear Em:-
Im'l and Softball? in Ur-nrs'tles.
C alleges and High Schools. In Mm
nitlpol and Inclusive! Recreation.
MosGrcgor-Goldsmith Sports
Eqn'prncnt :: recognized as a hall-
marl of quality and unvarying
parlarmancc.

“FWC'VUA‘TI (‘4 OMCQ 3.3 l

 

 

Nature Crafts

Ellsworth Jaeger. The Macmillan Company, New
York. $2.49.
NY LEADER working with a nature group this
summer will want to know about the new book
by Mr. Jaeger. It explains how to use the resources
of helds, woods, and even vacant lots for fascinat-
ing crafts projects. Only a few fundamental tools
are needed, such as a pocket knife, axe, saw, a bit
and brace, and scissors. Sixty-four projects offer a
wide varietyw—a craft hut and furnishings, Indian
willow beds, weaving, gourd bowls, bark pocket
books, bird feeding gadgets, and so on. Mr. Jaeger,
Curator of Education, Hayes Professor of Science,
Buffalo Museum of Science, is widely known as
author of L‘Vildwood Wisdom, Easy Crafts, Tracks
and Trailcraff, and C oarzcil Fires.

Big-Time Baseball

Harold H. Hart and Ralph Tolleris. Hart Pub—
lishing Company, New York. $2.95, deluxe
binding; $1.00, paper—covered—edition. ‘

BASEBALL know—it—all, ladies’ day spectator, or

any other kind of a baseball fan, you’ll read

this book from cover to cover. Within its 192

pages you’ll find a record of major-league proceed-

ings for the half—century between 1900 and 1950.

Here is, an array of colorful personalities of today

and yesterdayu—Bill Dickey, Lou Gehrig, Ty Cobb,

Joe DiMaggio, Ted Williams, and other greats—

as well as thrilling episodes, records, blunders and

48

New Publications

Covering the
Leisure Time Field

big nioments. There’s even a section on baseball
humor and Ernest Thayer’s immortal poem,
“Casey at the Bat”. To top it off, there are more
than forty full—page photographs of today’s stars
and dozens of amusing illustrations. Here’s a book
that has a home run in every page!

4

Officers and Directors of the
National Recreation Association

OFFICERS

ROBERT GARRETT, Chairman of the Board of DireCtors

REV. PAUL MOORE, J R., First Vice-President

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS, Second Vice-President

SUSAN M. LEE, Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE, Treasurer

GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY, Treasurer Emeritus

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

DIRECTORS

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEMIs, Boston, Mass.

EDWARD C. BENCH, Englewood, N. J. r
MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, Washington, D. C.
MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM H. DAVIS, New York, N. Y.

HARRY P. DAVISON, New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT, Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd, Jericho, L. 1., N. Y.
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, Seattle, Wash.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER, Fitchburg, Mass.
MRS. CHARLES V. HICKOX, Michigan City, Ind.
MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, Bellport, L. 1., N. Y.
SUSAN M. LEE, New York, N. Y.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL E. MILLIKEN, AuguSta, Me.

MRS. OGDEN L. MILLSr Woodbury, N. Y.

REV. PAUL MOORE, JR., Jersey City, N. J.
SIGMUND STERN, San Francisco, Calif.

GRANT TITSWORTH, Noroton, Conn.

J. C. WALSH, New York, N. Y.
FREDERICK M. WAREURG, New York, N. Y.

RECREATION

Recreation Training Institutes
May, June 1950*

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE \VALKER
Creative Recreation

* For April institute schedule, see March issue of

West Central States
May 1-12

Buffalo, New York
May 22 and 23

Syracuse, New York
May 24 and 25

Syracuse, New York
May 26

Albany, New York
June 1 and 2 r

Greenville, South Carolina
June 12-16

Pottstown, Pennsylvania
June 19—23

Klamath Falls, Oregon . I.
May 1-5

Springfield, Oregon
May] 8-12 "-

Moscow, Idaho
May 15-19

Vancouver, Washington
May 22-26

Columbus, Ohio
June 5-9

Toledo, Ohio
June 12-16

Dunkirk, New York
June 19-23

Westchester County,
New York '
June 28, 29 and 30

State of Florida
April 24-May 26

Sheboygan, \Visconsin
June 12-16

Salina, Kansas
June 19—23

St. Joseph, Missouri
May 1-5

Toledo, Ohio
June 12-16

\Vorcester, Massachusetts
June 26 and 27

Louisville Kentucky
May 15-26

Morristown. New Jersey

Juue 5-9

[.

Schedule being deveIOped.

Miss Grace A. Reeder, Director, Bureau of Child Wel-
fare, State Department of Social \Velfare, 112 State
Street, Albany, New York

Miss Grace 'A. Reeder, Director, Bureau of Child \Vel-
fare, State Department of Social \Velfare, 112 State
Street, Albany, New York

Mrs. Helena? G. Hoyt, Director, Municipal Recreation
Commission, City Hall

Miss Giiace A. Reeder, Director, Bureau of Child \Vel-
fare, State Department of Social \Velfare, 112 State
Street, Albany, New York

H. F. A. Lange, Director, Parks and Playgrounds,
100 East Park Avenue

Francis Donnon, Director, Pottstown Recreation
Commission, 'King and Penn Streets, Borough Hall

Samuel H. Smith, Superintendent of Recreation, City
Hall

Mrs. Irene Squires, Superintendent, VVillamalane Park
and Recreation District, OldiBank of Oregon Building

Carl S. Munson, Director, Moscow City Recreation

Carl Gustafson, Supervisor, Greater Vancouver Asso-
eiation, Memorial Building" 1“.

N. J. .Barack, Superintendent of Recreation, nbepart-
ment of Public Recreation, Room 124, City Hall

Arthur C. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Depart-
ment of Public \Velfare, 214 Safety Building?

K. Hoeppner, Director of Recreation, High School

Miss Vivian O. Wills, Assistant Superintendent, \Vest-

chester_C_oun'ty Recreation Commission, County Of-
fice Building, White Plains, New York

Dr.  L. Fairihg, Acting Head, Department of Citi-
zenship Training, General Extension Division, Uni-
vers1ty of Florida, Gainesville, Florida

Howard R. Rich, Director of Public Recreation. 817
Jefferson Avenue

Dave A. Zook, Superintendent of Recreation, 302 City
Hall Building

Leland E. Becraft, Executive Director, Council of
Social Agencies, 209 North Fifth Street

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, Depart-
ment of Public \Velfare, 214 Safety Building

Herman S. Adams, Parks and Recreation Commission

Miss Elizabeth_A. \Vilson, Supervisor, Special Activi-
ties. City DlVlSlon of Recreation, Department of Pub-
lic Parks and Recreation

C ‘ I  C I
Gerald R. Grif‘hn, Recreation Supervisor, Recreation
Department

RECREATION.

\‘ ' . II
There’s no such animal.

   

he cried !

Y FRIEND and I were

picking the ponies one

 day when I started telling

 him about a sure thing
I heard about.

- __ “You say it pays four bucks
for every three?” he asked.

“Yep,” I replied.

“And can’t lose? It automatically wins?.
Must be illegal!”

“Not a bit,” I replied. “In fact, the govern-
ment very much approves . . .”

“Our government approves of a horse who
can’t lose . . .”

“Who said anything about a horse?” I asked.
“So what else could it be but a horse . . .?”

“It not only could be—but is—U. S. Savings
Bonds,” was my prompt reply. “The surest
thing running on any track today.

“For every three dollars you invest in U. S.
Savings Bonds you get four dollars back
after only ten years. And if you’re a mem-
ber of the Payroll Savings Plan—which
means you buy bonds automatically from
your paycheck—that can amount to an
awful lot of money when you’re not looking.
Hey, what are you doing?”

“Tearing up my racing form! The horse I’m bet-
ting on from now on is U. S. Savings Bonds.”

Automatic saving is gm; saving-0.8. Savings Bonds

 

Contributed by this magazine iri co-operation With the Magazine
Publishers of America as a public service.

